---
title: Jan 1, 2011
ref: "T16.6 The Bridge to the Real World"
alink: "/acim/text/16/chap1606/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet and Happy New Year.

Has a nice ring to it doesn&rsquo;t it &hellip; *Happy* New Year &hellip;
Happy *New* Year &hellip; Happy New *Year*.

Everybody likes thresholds: The changeover of a Millennium, the
changeover of a decade, the changeover of a year. And in almost all
cases, each of you brings an expectation of newness to these things.
And you also bring an expectation of the breaking of boundaries, the
breaking of bondages&ndash;release from that which has held you. And
you&rsquo;re even willing to consider that the breaking of those bonds
can happen by extraordinary means.

What is a shame, is that you only do that when you come upon a
change-line&ndash;what I&rsquo;m calling a change-line&ndash;a point
that you call a threshold. And you do not energize or activate that
attitude every moment of conscious awareness.

Many of you make resolutions &hellip; you&rsquo;re going to turn over a
new leaf.

Well, this is good. Because it calls into play an act on your part:
&ldquo;I am going to do something in a new way. I resolve to &hellip;
blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.&rdquo;

You&rsquo;re not saying, &ldquo;Wow! I can&rsquo;t wait for something
new to happen to me&rdquo; and sit there passively. You bring yourself
into play. And this is good.

But I&rsquo;m going to ask how many of you, on any New Year that you
have experienced, how many of you have said, &ldquo;I resolve to let the
impossible happen to me? I resolve to let that which I am confident
cannot possibly happen to me, happen. I resolve not to bring any
resistance to the impossible happening &hellip; like Waking up &hellip;
like having a total radical healing &hellip; like youthing&ndash;in
other words, having the experience of not just old age, but aging
disappear.&rdquo;

How about resolving to let go of a long-standing enemy? And not be bound
any longer from your own growth by your commitment to being angry and
enjoying the satisfaction of it?

It&rsquo;s a wonderful time. It&rsquo;s a wonderful attitude for all of
you to be embracing at this moment. It&rsquo;s a wonderful attitude to
never abandon.

Now, how &hellip; how do you effectively resolve to experience change?
How do you effectively resolve to be made new?

By stepping out of the mindset you&rsquo;re currently using. By stepping
out of the mutual agreements you have entered into with everyone else.
Even the ones that say the words &ldquo;Happy New Year&rdquo; always
have a pleasant connotation. That&rsquo;s a mutual definition.
It&rsquo;s a mutual agreement. It&rsquo;s a tradition which simply
means that it&rsquo;s a mutual agreement and a mutual definition of long
standing &hellip; right?

Hey, how about &ldquo;Happy New Instant? Happy New Instant, Happy New
Now&rdquo; now…now…now…now? How about bringing an expectation of newness
constantly into play as part of your act of observing&ndash;as part of
the activity of being conscious, of being alive?

And how about making commitment to letting your new Vision be supplied
to you because you have said, &ldquo;Father, what is the truth here?
Holy Spirit, what is the truth here? That which is nothing more than my
right Mind, not my deluded mind, but that which my right Mind knows is
the truth?&rdquo; You see?

Now, I&rsquo;m going to take advantage of your belief system about New
Year. And so I&rsquo;m going to use this demarcation in time to provide
an intent&ndash;I&rsquo;m not going to call it a goal &hellip; an
intent&ndash;an intent to embody the meaning of the statement,
&ldquo;Why in the hell should I wait another moment to Wake up? Why in
Heaven&rsquo;s name should I not let Heaven in now?&rdquo;

You know, for how long have you been studying A Course In Miracles? Is
it just a pleasant past-time that is relatively helpful to you in your
journey from birth to death? Is there nothing more to it than that? Is
there not something about it that is supposed to cause Awakening and
release from illusions and dreams?

Is it not about making a transition from ignorance to understanding,
from confusion to clarity, from a distorted experience of Reality to the
direct experience of the Kingdom of Heaven that you&rsquo;re having
because you have allowed yourself to realize that you are indeed the Son
or Daughter of God, absolutely divine and never were some poor piss-ant
orphan, never were some result of a physical process that in fact, all
that you had been calling physical processes were simply experiences of
Reality being perceived unclearly. You see?

Everything that you&rsquo;re in the middle of, everything that
you&rsquo;re experiencing is the ultimate, is the Kingdom of Heaven seen
through a glass darkly, seen through confusion, seen through a
reluctance on your part to let go and see what It truly Is. You see?

You have this safety valve, this gap of safety between how you
experience things now and how you will experience things if you keep
your resolution, if you allow something new to happen, if you allow
yourself to be made new. You see? You resolve to change, you resolve to
Wake up &hellip; &ldquo;Oh, won&rsquo;t it be wonderful to Wake up in
2011 &hellip; before Christmas of 2011? Won&rsquo;t that be
wonderful?&rdquo;

But, you know, it might not happen. And so you don&rsquo;t have to worry
about what it might involve. And after all, you have, you know, twelve
months and twenty some days before you find out whether you met your
expectation or not, whether the resolve was committed to and enacted.
So you&rsquo;re safe. If you don&rsquo;t do it &hellip; nah-h&hellip; no
big deal. You see?

The simple fact is, as we&rsquo;ve talked about &hellip; well before I
say it, let me ask a question: &ldquo;Why aren&rsquo;t you experiencing
the ultimate? Why aren&rsquo;t you Awake? What is keeping you from
seeing things as they truly Are? What is keeping you from seeing
yourself as the Daughter of God and nothing else? What is keeping any of
you from unfettered, unlimited good?

It&rsquo;s the fact that you&rsquo;re fighting for the right to not have
It.

Now it isn&rsquo;t that you&rsquo;re fighting for the right not to have
your good, but what you&rsquo;re doing is fighting for the right to have
your bad. You&rsquo;re fighting for the right to hold on to your
limitation. You&rsquo;re saying, &ldquo;This is impossible.&rdquo;
Instead of saying, &ldquo;I expect to see the impossible happen. I am
curious to see the impossible happen. I am curious to see that which
goes beyond my ability to comprehend, register with me in a manner I can
comprehend.&rdquo;

But no, you say, &ldquo;I can&rsquo;t have this and I can&rsquo;t have
that. So-in-so&rsquo;s behavior is keeping me from it. So-in-so&rsquo;s
behavior has been atrocious and it&rsquo;s really offended me. And I
can&rsquo;t just let go of my offense&ndash;of my offendedness. If I did
that I would certainly not show that I had any respect for
myself.&rdquo; You see?

Oh, the crazy arguments that everyone brings up to hold onto their
limits and to not see the impossible happen that would render the
justice you think you would get by holding on to your limitations, so
utterly irrelevant, because the fulfillment that would replace it would
be so utterly meaningful and so outside of the scope of the petty
small-mindedness of the orphan mindset.

You&rsquo;re going to find me this year, pushing for actual change.
Pushing you not to settle for flowery phrases and wonderful statements
of A Course In Miracles. I&rsquo;m going to push for you to arrive at a
point before the year is up where you&rsquo;re not even going to bother
to pick up the Course again because its Meaning has registered with you
and you have been transformed and you&rsquo;re now experiencing all of
the Meaning embodied in that book and more.

I&rsquo;m going to be pushing for you not to be satisfied with no
particular change occurring but a capacity you have to somehow be
half-way happy in spite of the lack of change. I&rsquo;m going to push
for you not to miss the point.

If Awakening is not supposed to occur then put down this book and go out
and live life the best you can.

If Meaning &hellip; if change is supposed to occur, if transformation is
the promise, then demand the transformation, demand to have the evidence
and don&rsquo;t put it down until you do have the evidence&ndash;not
evidence of your having a capacity to be in charge and make things
happen, but evidence of perfection that before you lift a finger, before
you think a thought, it is your Birthright to be experiencing.

You need to learn to demand to have the experience without yet having
done anything to deserve it, without having earned it through some
orphan act. And then when you don&rsquo;t have the experience yet,
don&rsquo;t stop feeling into it. Don&rsquo;t stop being attentive for
it. Don&rsquo;t give up on expecting to see this evidence of the
Father&rsquo;s Dictum, &ldquo;Behold I make all things new.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Happy New Year&ndash;Behold I make all things new. Happy instant!
Happy New Now! Now…now…now.&rdquo;

If you&rsquo;re not experiencing ultimate good right now, it&rsquo;s
because in one way or another, you&rsquo;re arguing against it &hellip;
and you are winning the argument. And the solution is simple!

Abandon the argument. Stop reinforcing it. Stop rehearsing it in words.
Stop telling everybody about your problem. Stop talking about the
impossibility of the situation and how unfair it is without ever
bringing into the conversation one iota of curiosity about how the
problem might be solved &hellip; and how it might be solved easily and
quickly &hellip; and how it might be solved because at the bottom line
it just might be an illusion &ndash; it just might be the way you&rsquo;re
perceiving things because of the bias you&rsquo;re applying to your line
of vision.

See, it&rsquo;s nice to have the truth that&rsquo;s expressed in the
Course to read and to contemplate because it does stimulate new
perceptions. But when it moves you to a place where you expect what
you&rsquo;ve read to be true and to register with you in your life and
it doesn&rsquo;t happen, you get discouraged and you give up.

You give arguments against it: &ldquo;Well, I don&rsquo;t have what it
takes. I know it&rsquo;s the truth. Man, the minute I picked up the book
and started reading it, I knew it was the truth. There&rsquo;s just
something in me that isn&rsquo;t quite getting it.&rdquo;

You see? And there&rsquo;s your argument against Happy New
Now&ndash;Happy New Instant! Happy New Not ever having to wait again for
my Good!&rdquo; You see?

Because when you dare to believe what you&rsquo;re reading and you dare
to go into the holy instant and you dare to abandon your privacy and you
say, &ldquo;Father, God or Holy Spirit, what is the truth here? What is
your divine Perspective that I have been told it is my Birthright to be
experiencing as mine because no other perspective was ever given to
me?&rdquo;

When you do that two-step and you don&rsquo;t hear the answer and the
problem isn&rsquo;t resolved and in fact it seems to be getting worse,
you tend to throw in the towel, you agree with all the arguments against
hearing the Father&rsquo;s Answer&ndash;experiencing what it is your
inherent Birthright to be experiencing because of what you divinely Are.
And you make a big thing out of your discouragement. You blow up your
discouragement bigger and bigger until it&rsquo;s billowing all over the
place and proving to you how overwhelming it all is and how unreasonable
it is under the circumstances for you to expect &ldquo;Happy New
Instant!&rdquo; You see? &ldquo;Happy New Now &hellip; Now &hellip;
NOW.&rdquo; You see?

And here is where you must persist. Here is where you must go against
the meanings that you as an orphan and all of the orphans in the
orphanage have agreed upon together is a circumstance that there&rsquo;s
no way out of, and that indeed, your sorrow and your frustration and
your anger are absolutely justified and they are what should be
magnified. You see? It&rsquo;s just a silly mutual
agreement&ndash;it&rsquo;s nonsensical.

But, you know what? If you want to see the evidence of the
Father&rsquo;s Will, if you want to see the evidence of everything as
the Kingdom of Heaven instead of the evidence of a material world that
you see, you&rsquo;re going to have to plough right into that experience
of failure. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m practicing the holy instant, I&rsquo;m
doing everything Raj said and it&rsquo;s not working. And it&rsquo;s not
working and it never has worked. And I don&rsquo;t &hellip; you know, if
I stop and think about it, I really don&rsquo;t know very many people,
even those studying the Course or even those listing to Raj &hellip; I
don&rsquo;t really know very many people who have ever had the
experiences Raj is talking about. Wow, and you heap argument upon
argument against the holy instant. You heap argument upon argument
against letting yourself into that void where you&rsquo;re no longer
asserting your definitions and meanings and your so-called authority,
and you&rsquo;re inviting God&rsquo;s authority in so that you can find
yourself in that place where God&rsquo;s laws prevail and nothing else
does, and you experience the enlightenment you need.

&ldquo;Well, I know, you know a few people who have had maybe a little
taste of what Raj has talked about, but nobody&rsquo;s Woken up yet
&hellip; look at Paul, he hasn&rsquo;t Woken up yet&rdquo; &hellip;
argument upon argument upon argument.

Happy New Year! Happy New Year! Don&rsquo;t let those words be hollow
words.

Well, here&rsquo;s another threshold for you, a bigger one than New
Years: It&rsquo;s the Second Coming! Wow&hellip; millions of people look
forward to that. Well, in some ways, A Course In Miracles is a part of
that. It&rsquo;s the clarity of the Christ entering into the human
picture again. And I have to say again, that it hasn&rsquo;t happened so
that you can have pleasant words to make life more pleasant between
birth and death without ever altering that illusory experience that
seems to begin with birth and seems to end with death and simply
constitutes, for lack of better words, a period of confusion which none
of you need to be suffering from and it&rsquo;s time for everyone to
Wake up out of &hellip; that&rsquo;s why. And yet, you may have been
studying the book for twenty-five years already.

Well, let me ask you this: If I appeared &hellip; if the Second Coming
happened and I appeared on your globe, do you think that it would be so
that all of you could take another two thousand years to absorb and
assimilate and wonder about, and be amazed at everything I might say and
everything I might do?

No! The point would be so that the dream, the illusion of mortality and
the ignorance of your divinity might cease. When? Over a long drawn out
period of time? No! [snaps fingers] Instantly! This isn&rsquo;t a tease
[points to ACIM]. And it isn&rsquo;t just an accommodation to the human
condition. And isn&rsquo;t it wonderful that God has given us these
inspiring teachings.

So, here we are, New Years Day with change on everyone&rsquo;s mind,
newness, the turning over a new leaf, the becoming new, the being made
new to whatever extent any of you might allow, even though the majority
of you will only allow just a little bit.

Hey, what about great abundance, regardless of the economy? Can&rsquo;t
happen? Oh, okay. But you lie. And you believe your lie. You believe the
mutually-agreed-upon-definitions. Why you can&rsquo;t possibly
experience your holy Birthright until the &ldquo;gray men&rdquo; are
dealt with, until the great financial families who are really governing
things behind the scenes somehow die off or kill each other, or a great
act of God wipes them out. We lie. That&rsquo;s not the truth. You see?

Holiness is not circumstantial &hellip; wholeness is not circumstantial.
Put that under your belt this New Year Day.

Your wholeness is not circumstantial.

It doesn&rsquo;t depend on anything else or anyone else doing or not
doing anything. But in order to experience it, you&rsquo;ve got to
abandon the orphanage activities and you&rsquo;ve got to join in the
holy instant and say, &ldquo;Father, what is the truth here? What is the
true perspective? I am willing to give up my confidences about what
everything is and how everything works in favor of letting in Your
Perspective which is the truth because it is the Perspective about
Creation, which You are the Source of. And I am going to stop turning to
any other apparent resource to gather the facts about life.&rdquo; You
see? That&rsquo;s how you stop doing what constitutes an argument
against being aware of the truth. You see, it isn&rsquo;t so much
something that you need to do, it&rsquo;s something that you need to
stop doing. That&rsquo;s where the simplicity of it is.

And so I&rsquo;m going to keep pointing your nose in the direction of
the simplicity and I&rsquo;m going to keep saying, &ldquo;Are you seeing
the evidence?&rdquo; And if you say no, you&rsquo;re not seeing the
evidence, and if my asking you if you are and you&rsquo;re saying no
that you aren&rsquo;t makes you feel incompetent and discouraged, well
just remember that&rsquo;s a ploy of the ego, it&rsquo;s a ploy of the
orphan, it&rsquo;s part of the mutually agreed upon appropriate
behavior. You see?

Oh-h-h &hellip; but if you look at it simply and honestly, you&rsquo;ll
see that it&rsquo;s just a ploy, it&rsquo;s a tactic to distract you
from engaging in what will actually make a difference. It is a tactic
that immobilizes you and makes you uninterested in looking for the
evidence, looking for &ldquo;Happy New Now&rdquo;! You see?

And so, you could say that you find yourself in the attitude of somebody
in the nineteen fifties, you know, halfway between the change lines
&hellip; the &ldquo;Happy New Millennium,&rdquo; &hellip; you see?
&hellip;the time when real changes can occur and when you&rsquo;ll allow
for the changes to register with you because you&rsquo;re not saying
that the impossible can&rsquo;t happen. &ldquo;Oh, but in the nineteen
fifties, you know, they&rsquo;re sort of the doldrums, you know, sort of
a place of ignorance, not a whole lot of new ideas and blah…blah…blah,
you know &hellip; well &hellip; yep &hellip; so &hellip;&rdquo;

Don&rsquo;t let any part of your day be halfway between change lines.
Don&rsquo;t let them be a place where it really is an important thing to
be a dumb shit-head, to just lays around in immobility and lack of
interest and play stupid.

Now, we&rsquo;re talking about getting out of special relationships. And
special relationships are, if you&rsquo;ll remember, relationships you
enter into with people or things when you don&rsquo;t know who you Are.
In other words, when you, thinking you&rsquo;re an orphan, enter into a
relationship with another or some thing absolutely confident that
there&rsquo;s nothing more than a happenstance effect right there where
you are &hellip; born to die and to struggle in between.

When that happens, that&rsquo;s called a special relationship. And you
get out of special relationships, not by improving them, but by doing
the one thing that will re-illuminate in your mind your awareness of
what you divinely Are.

Now, continuing in the book, I&rsquo;m going to back up to the beginning
of the paragraph that I said we would be reading from. And it says:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Fear not that you will be abruptly lifted up and hurled into
reality.[^1]
</div>

See? See, that&rsquo;s what I want to make clear with you. You come to
this day, &ldquo;Happy New Year&rdquo; &hellip; but you&rsquo;re
confident that you won&rsquo;t &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; be abruptly lifted up and hurled into reality.
</div>

Or abruptly hurled into whatever it is you&rsquo;ve resolved to be.
You&rsquo;re not afraid of that. You think that can&rsquo;t possibly
happen. And so you&rsquo;re safe. But you have the right intent,
correct?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Fear not that you will be abruptly lifted up and hurled into reality.
Time is kind&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; New Year or not &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Time is kind and if you use if FOR reality, it will keep gentle pace
with you in your transition.
</div>

Well, I&rsquo;m saying, allow for it not to be a gentle pace. Allow for the
possibility that you might possibly be able to be hurled into and
abruptly lifted into Reality. You see? Because all that&rsquo;s happening is
you&rsquo;re letting yourself be returned to your right Mind, you&rsquo;re letting
the Holy Spirit register with you, which is nothing more than your right
Mind, your divine Mind, your inseparability from the Father.

So although you need &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Fear not that you will be abruptly lifted up and hurled into reality.
</div>

Realize that it can happen as quickly as you&rsquo;ll allow it. And why
delay? That&rsquo;s what I&rsquo;m saying. That&rsquo;s the thrust or
the intent that I will be sharing this year and hopefully not for very
much of it because you&rsquo;ll get it. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The urgency is only in dislodging your minds from their fixed position
here.
</div>

Meaning, here in your definitions, here in your ignorance of who you Are
and the definitions you have developed about who you are as an ignorant
one.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This will not leave you homeless, and without a frame of reference.
</div>

Waking up and becoming free from all of the little mean-spirited
small-minded rules that you&rsquo;ve bound yourself by won&rsquo;t cause you to be
homeless. You know what? It won&rsquo;t constitute going insane. It&rsquo;s the
return of sanity. And to any degree that any of you have ever let any
of that in, you have experienced groundedness that was unbelieveable.
And yet the groundedness was of something infinite, something huge: You,
you in a much larger experience of yourself a more infinite experience
that didn&rsquo;t cause you to feel as though you were floating around but
rather more firmly anchored in invulnerability.

So:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The period of disorientation, which precedes the actual transition, is
far shorter than the time it took to fix your minds so firmly on
illusions.
</div>

You see? Happy New Now! Happy New Instant! You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The period of disorientation, which precedes the actual transition, is
far shorter &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; it can be shorter than anything you&rsquo;re expecting. You can let it
be quick. You can let it be happy, now!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Delay will hurt you now more than before, only because you realize it IS
delay&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; well, does that mean that what I&rsquo;m going to be pushing for this
year is going to cause you to feel more hurt because I&rsquo;m not going to be
letting you forget that it&rsquo;s a delay for nothing and you&rsquo;ll be aware
that you&rsquo;re delaying when you don&rsquo;t have to? I guess you could use it
that way. But don&rsquo;t. I guess you could use it and your subsequent
attempt to get into the holy instant and experience the transformation
without experiencing it, you could use that as a means of justifying
abandoning the task, because you don&rsquo;t want to be in that place where
you&rsquo;re feeling totally incapable. But you&rsquo;re going to have to be
willing to go there and stand there with the intent to be at odds with
it, to not agree with it in order to move through it, in order to watch
it simply give up its bluff and dissolve.

And so, you might feel during this coming year that I&rsquo;m going to be
pushing you into an uncomfortable place and asking you to do something
that you don&rsquo;t feel at all like doing. But that&rsquo;s the way it works.
And that&rsquo;s the way Waking up occurs. And that&rsquo;s the way the purpose of
the Course is fulfilled. And that&rsquo;s the way the function of the Holy
Spirit accomplishes its task of returning you to your right Mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Find hope and comfort, rather than despair, in this: You could no longer
find even the ILLUSION of love in any special relationship here. For you
are no longer wholly insane, and you would recognize the guilt of
self-betrayal for what it IS.
</div>

You see? But then you say, &ldquo;Okay, but I&rsquo;m doing what Raj is saying and
it&rsquo;s not working and I&rsquo;m not getting anywhere and nothing is happening
and everything is the way it always has been, therefore these words are
about me in another time in another place and in another frame of
mind.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You could no longer find even the ILLUSION of love in any special
relationship here.
</div>

&ldquo;Well, I seem to be and I don&rsquo;t seem to be able to change it, so you
must be talking about when I&rsquo;m Awake or something that doesn&rsquo;t relate to
where I am right now.&rdquo; No, it talks about where you are right now and
the fact that you must stand in that place of feeling incompetent, where
it seems nothing you are doing to practice the holy instant is having
any effect. And you must stand in the face of your discouragement and
watch its bluff dissolve.

So it&rsquo;s not totally fun. But you know what? You&rsquo;re not
ignorant of the process now. And I&rsquo;m going to be behind you, in
front of you, saying, &ldquo;Come on &hellip; go on &hellip; this is the
way.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Find hope and comfort, rather than despair, in this: You could no longer
find even the ILLUSION of love in any special relationship here.
</div>

In any relationship that you&rsquo;re in without knowing who you Are divinely
speaking.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For you are no longer wholly insane, and you would recognize the guilt
of self-betrayal for what it IS.
</div>

It&rsquo;s like, maybe for the first time you know what the purpose of a New
Year resolution is, and what a Real New Years resolution is: Practice
the two-step, engage in the holy instant and stand there in the face of
all that seems awful until it dissolves, because you are no longer
wholly insane.

I&rsquo;ve shared the truth with you.

Happy New Year! Happy New Now! Happy instant!

And I look forward to being with you next time.

[^1]: T16.6 The Bridge to the Real World


