---
title: Jan 8, 2011
ref: "T16.6 The Bridge to the Real World"
alink: "/acim/text/16/chap1606/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

Well, we&rsquo;re at a really interesting point in the Course.
It&rsquo;s a forward step that seems to have a backward step to it, or a
blessing with a cursing accompanying it.

You&rsquo;re all familiar with the phrase, &ldquo;Ye shall know the
truth and the truth shall make you free,&rdquo;[^1] but what if the truth
is going to make you free of something you don&rsquo;t want to let go
of? You see, in a way that&rsquo;s a two-edged sword: It feels good and
it feels bad&mdash;it blesses you and curses you.

We&rsquo;ve talked about special relationships at some length. What is
the one thing you have the most special, special relationship with?

Your thoughts &hellip; your thoughts &hellip; YOUR THOUGHTS! The ones
that make you the qualified, wonderful, credible, valuable person that
you are, the thoughts you&rsquo;ve had that no one else had, the
thoughts that changed the world, perhaps.

But if you had those thoughts all by yourself, you had them in an arena
where you were in a state of self-defense. Because when you separated
yourself from your Source, you immediately felt fear and guilt. And you
immediately began to live in the middle of Reality&mdash;the Kingdom of
Heaven&mdash;as though it was Something that you had to protect yourself
against. And you lived as though the one that you Are, was an
orphan&mdash;somebody not with a Birthright&mdash;someone without a
Birthright. You see? And so everything you did was done as a defense
against your lack&mdash;a defense against your incapacity. You see?

And so your thoughts did not come from a place of connectedness with
truth or Reality. And they came forth, not as an expression of Love, but
as an assertion of self-protection.

There&rsquo;s no way to have a Meaningful idea&mdash;I&rsquo;m going to
use the word &ldquo;idea&rdquo;&mdash;when you don&rsquo;t know who you
Are and you don&rsquo;t know where you Are. And your life is being lived
on a false basis.

Now, no matter what comes up during the day, your first inner response
to it should be, &ldquo;Well I don&rsquo;t know what this means, but
I&rsquo;m going to immediately listen. Not listen for my best judgments,
not listen for my most creative ideas, but I&rsquo;m going to listen for
what the Holy Spirit would reveal to me as the simple divine truth about
what is going on &hellip; or what the meaning of this, that or the other
thing is.&rdquo;

You can count on it&hellip; that if you think you know the answer, if
you, off the top of your head [snaps fingers] think you know the answer,
you&rsquo;re experiencing a special relationship with your thoughts. And
you&rsquo;re not in the holy instant. And you therefore, are not in that
place where God&rsquo;s laws prevail.

And so, no matter how wonderful the thought or idea or response is that
you come up with, it&rsquo;s still going to be fundamentally an act of
self-defense. That&rsquo;s not love. That&rsquo;s not caring.
That&rsquo;s not communion with your fellowman. That&rsquo;s an
adversarial external interplay with another.

Now this is very important to understand. If you think you know what the
answer is, you don&rsquo;t.

But if you do the two-step, you go into the Silence.  You stop assuming
what the answer must be. You stop valuing what your best judgments are,
based upon your fantastic experience. And you find yourself moving into
a gentle peace&mdash;a quietness that isn&rsquo;t full of thinking, but
is full of a presence of stability that it will seem is not yours even
though it is.

In this place you will find yourself Knowing what needs to be known. And
you will express it from that peace. You will not express it from an
egotistical, thrilling, exciting self-expression.

When you abandon your special relationship with your thoughts, you bring
yourself into the &ldquo;not-knowing place&rdquo; that we&rsquo;ve
talked about quite some time ago&mdash;a place to be valued within you.
It&rsquo;s the quiet place of peace where the Altar is in the very
center of you. And there, the Father&rsquo;s Will, the truth, the
conscious experience of what is Real is had by you.

Very often what you experience there won&rsquo;t have anything to do
with what you thought you needed to know and act upon when you were
thinking for yourself, [snaps fingers] coming off the top of your head.

This is very important because you don&rsquo;t want to be going down
side-trips that are fruitless, seeking to accomplish what doesn&rsquo;t
need to be done but you thought needed to be done because of your
devotion to your best thinking. That&rsquo;s not how you will Wake up,
that&rsquo;s how you will delay Awakening.

Paul gave himself a very difficult time today.  There were many things
to do &hellip; many things to do right up to the minute the meeting
tonight started. There was no time for him to prepare by getting his
mind in the right place, by getting control of things so that he
wasn&rsquo;t interfered with.

You see, if he had had his way, he would&rsquo;ve been able to take
control of the day and have it be the way he knew (because it&rsquo;s a
false knowing) &ldquo;it needed to be&rdquo; in order for him to be
where he needed to be mentally to listen to me this evening. If he had
been able to get control he would&rsquo;ve changed the things that were
getting in the way.

Well, he did. [chuckle] He spent a good part of the afternoon asking me
how to change things, how to get others to change their expectations so
that he might have a certain modicum of peace and quiet in which to ease
into the evening.

But you see, I couldn&rsquo;t accommodate him because the answer, if he
had really shut up and stopped his thinking and his devotion to his best
thinking, he would have heard me say &ldquo;You&rsquo;re trying to
prepare for this evening and the only way to be prepared for the evening
is to be totally unprepared. The only way to be prepared for the evening
is for you to be in that place where you have no expectation upon
yourself. It doesn&rsquo;t matter to you if anyone else has an
expectation upon you. All you need to do is to know that in the peace of
your Being, you will be utterly appropriate. In the peace of your Being
where there&rsquo;s nothing to live up to, that which is meaningful will
come forth.&rdquo;

Oh-h, but he wouldn&rsquo;t of had that this afternoon because
that&rsquo;s not the way. If it had happened that way, he would have
been able to take credit for something that no one should take credit
for. He would&rsquo;ve taken credit for an experience that wasn&rsquo;t
representative of the truth.

It&rsquo;s a hard thing for all of you to grasp, that practicing the
two-step, going into the holy instant, literally has nothing to do with
being in control better than you have ever been in control before.

The only reason you ever thought you needed control was because you
thought chaos was real and that your perceptions of what would correct
it were themselves correct. And you attempted with strength and bravado
to make things happen when that which would have corrected the chaos
that you were experiencing would have been to go into the
Silence&mdash;to relax, to give up trying to be in control &hellip; you
see? . . and do something that you couldn&rsquo;t possibly take any
credit for: Listen for the truth, let the truth in so that it might
infill you and, for lack of better words, give you a rudder, give you a
direction, give you an expression to give, an intelligent one, a
meaningful one, a harmonizing peace generating one. You see?

Not anyone really wants that because you value authority and control so
much, because it is tied in with your sense of worth.

So, ye shall know the truth and the truth shall make you free and it
will make you free of things you don&rsquo;t want to let go of.

You must know this so that you will engage in the work it takes to move
past your insistence upon valuing the special relationship you have with
your very excellent thoughts.

In the book:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Nothing you seek to strengthen in the special relationship is REALLY
part of you.[^2]
</div>

When you want to strengthen your ideas, when you want to strengthen your
thoughts by acting them out and causing them to be a means of enforcing
good in your world, you&rsquo;re trying to strengthen something
that&rsquo;s not a part of you.

As I said, it&rsquo;s thinking that arises out of a misunderstanding of
the nature of Being, which causes your thinking to be false and any
actions that arise out of it to be detrimental.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Nothing you seek to strengthen in the special relationship is REALLY
part of you. And you cannot keep part of the thought system which taught
you it was real, and understand the Thought that REALLY knows what you
are.
</div>

In other words, you&rsquo;re not going to be able to hold onto your
dearly beloved best concepts that have so much to say about
&ldquo;wonderful you.&rdquo; You&rsquo;re not going to be able to hold
on to them and still experience the &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip;Thought that REALLY knows what you are.
</div>

That you are the holy Son of God, that you are here to bear witness of
God by listening and reaching for&mdash;listening to and reaching
for&mdash;God&rsquo;s Perspective. Because as His Son or Daughter, as
His Offspring, His Perspective is what is embodied in you and
that&rsquo;s the way you will discover what It is that&rsquo;s embodied
in you. You will discover It by seeking It of your Father &hellip; of
It&rsquo;s Source.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You HAVE allowed the Thought of your reality to enter your minds, and
because you invited it, it WILL abide with you.
</div>

Now&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You HAVE allowed the Thought of your reality to enter your minds&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you could say it was sort of a sneaky trick to get you to
become inquisitive about a holy instant where you could, through its
practice, connect with God. Because, you know &hellip; literally, if
you&rsquo;re told ahead of time that you&rsquo;re going to have to
sacrifice who you think you are, you&rsquo;re going to have to sacrifice
the picture you have of yourself and the behaviors that you have adopted
based upon the false picture you have of yourself, so that you might
learn who you really Are, which is incredibly, fantastically different
from who you think you are, you would&rsquo;ve said, &ldquo;No way,
I&rsquo;m not going to touch that holy instant!&rdquo;

In a positive way, it is the reverse of taking a first puff on a
cigarette or using a drug. Because you have the experience and
you&rsquo;re hooked. You have the experience and it&rsquo;s one that you
really will not put down.

The minute you experience the holy instant and you experience the Father
directly, you have an influx of the Father&rsquo;s Perspective,
it&rsquo;s Something you will never forget and it&rsquo;s Something you
will never let go of again completely. You may try to ignore It, but you
will not be able to let It go, and It will abide with you and It will
grow within you. And whether you&rsquo;re attending to It or not, It
will sooner or later cause you to become more and more dissatisfied with
&ldquo;the human condition,&rdquo; as you call it, as you see it, as you
have generated it out of the fear and guilt. It came into play when you
said, &ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;d rather see it my way. Father I&rsquo;d
rather say what things are.&rdquo;

So, it sets you on an irrevocable path of Awakening.

Again, it sets you on an irrevocable path of Awakening&mdash;a feeling
one&mdash;one that is going to cause you to be less and less content
with &ldquo;the human condition,&rdquo; with the way things seem to be,
with a life between birth and death filled with sin, sickness and
ultimately death. Ways that you have dealt with others will seem less
satisfying.

And if you haven&rsquo;t actively been nurturing the practice of the
holy instant or the two-step, it&rsquo;s going to seem like the world is
against you because everything is turning to sour grapes for no reason
that you know of. And yet, the reason is, you had a taste of truth. You
had a glimpse of the Father&rsquo;s Perspective. Revelation in some form
occurred. Inspiration occurred. And it won&rsquo;t leave you alone.

Now, Paul got arrogant this afternoon and he felt like, &ldquo;Well, if
nobody is going to respect him, if life itself is not going to respect
his need to be in that place where he needs to be to listen to me, then
he&rsquo;s going to be depressed, he&rsquo;s going to be unhappy
&hellip;&rdquo; and he caused himself to be very drowsy and felt like
cancelling the meeting, [slight chuckle] like he was just too exhausted
because of the demands of the week to follow through. [sigh] You see?

Now mind you, I&rsquo;ve not talked with him about any of this before we
began this evening. We did not discuss this to put him in a better frame
of mind so that he could relay it to you second hand. He&rsquo;s
learning this first-hand right now. But what does that mean? It means
that at some point this afternoon, late this afternoon, he arrived at a
point where the distress&mdash;the disturbance he was
experiencing&mdash;was not tolerable.

And so he sat down finally and he did a meditation. He sat down and
abandoned all of the thoughts that he so loved that made him feel so
righteously indignant all afternoon and which, because he was practicing
them, caused him to become more and more limited, more and more
incapacitated, more and more unwilling to be the Presence of Love. You
see?

And so in his insistence, whether he felt like it or not, whether he
thought it would be the answer or not, he became still. He did the first
part of the two-step. &ldquo;It wasn&rsquo;t fair,&rdquo; he said. He
shouldn&rsquo;t have had to do it. Everything and everyone should have
recognized what he needed in order to have the Course In Miracles Study
Group tonight in order to hear me. And it was all bullshit. Because all
he needed to do to hear me was to abandon his special relationship with
his great thoughts that determined that something was wrong and
everything and everyone needed to change. You see?

And there&rsquo;s not a one of you that doesn&rsquo;t value your
thoughts enough to become devoted to them even though the thoughts you
are devoting yourself to are diminishing your Spirit, diminishing your
hope, confirming your doubt, aggravating your fear, and making it
perfectly clear that something is terribly wrong that you must get
control of.

You hang crepe all the time in one way or another and you love the
process of the negative forecast that you&rsquo;re absolutely confident
in even though that confidence is a confidence in some thoughts that you
have devoted yourself to. You see?

That&rsquo;s the interesting place we are in the Course&mdash;I
don&rsquo;t mean in the book&mdash;I mean in the place in you where the
Course moves you, grows you, heals you and causes you to be a new man or
a new woman.

Again&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You HAVE allowed the Thought of your reality to enter your minds, and
because you invited it, it WILL abide with you.
</div>

And I mean, it WILL ABIDE with you. It will never ever go away again.
And its Presence permeating you will, in so many words, cause your days
to be uncomfortable if you&rsquo;re insisting upon living them as though
your ideas about the day are true and you live with great devotion and
love for your ideas. In other words, you magnify the special
relationship you have with your ideas.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your love for it &hellip;

&hellip; the Thought of your reality &hellip;

&hellip; will not allow you to betray yourself, and you could not enter
into a relationship where it could not go with you, for you would not BE
apart from it.
</div>

Now you may be able to fool yourself into thinking that, yeah,
you&rsquo;d like to be apart from it again and you&rsquo;re going to
ignore it for a while and you&rsquo;re going to try and push it out. But
I&rsquo;m sorry, listen to the words:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your love for it will not allow you to betray yourself&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; by abandoning it totally again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and you could not enter into a relationship where it could not
go with you, for you would not BE apart from it.
</div>

You see? You had that first drag on a cigarette. Nobody&rsquo;s going to
like that example but I&rsquo;ve got to use it because it means
something. You can relate to it. You can relate to having a single
experience that addicts you to it. And the experience of truth, when you
let it in, is like that. It will not leave you and it will not leave you
where it found you. It will move you forward. And in effect, it will
force you to abandon what you have wanted to hold onto. In other words,
the truth &hellip; you shall know the truth&mdash;have the experience of
it&mdash;and the truth will make you free, whether you want to be free
of it or not. You see?

So&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Be glad you have escaped the mockery of salvation which the ego offered
you&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you know &hellip; through all your special relationships, with
your own great ideas &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and look not back with longing on the travesty it made of your
relationships. Now no one need suffer, for you have come too far to
yield to the illusion of the beauty and holiness of guilt.
</div>

Guilt has been used by everyone to make a better self out of you than
you have been before and to honor the better self that you&rsquo;ve
made. But you&rsquo;re not going to be able to continue to do that
successfully without increasing difficulty. That&rsquo;s the wonder of
healing. It heals! The Revelation of Truth, the experience of truth
heals! It changes you! And if it weren&rsquo;t for your devotion to your
special relationships you would embrace it whole-heartedly without
resistance. And the fact is, that the growth of truth in you will
successfully move you to the place where you do abandon what no longer
serves you. That&rsquo;s just the way it works.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Only the wholly insane could look on death and suffering, sickness and
despair, and see it thus &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; as beauty and holiness.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What guilt has wrought is ugly, fearful and very dangerous. See no
illusion of truth and beauty there. And be you thankful that there IS a
place where truth and beauty wait for you.
</div>

Now, today Paul used his special relationship with his thoughts to try
to better the situation or the circumstance or the circumstances of the
day. But you know what? It didn&rsquo;t work very well. It simply
aggravated the situation.

And as truth grows in you, your capacity to practice unhealthy
attitudes, which before it seemed a pleasant thing to do, will become
less and less pleasant and you will find less and less motivation to
employ it. And you will begin to lose the thing you would hold onto.

It&rsquo;s going to happen. And you&rsquo;re gong to have to recognize
that the depression you experience, the hopelessness you experience
around it is because what never really worked is obviously not working
for you now. And this is going to make it easier for you to give up what
doesn&rsquo;t work. You see? It&rsquo;s part of the healing. And what it
does, is it requires you to use the discipline that I talked about last
week, where you stand firmly in the face of what seems like your failure
when you practice the holy instant, until its bluff dissolves.
You&rsquo;re going to have to do as Paul did today &hellip; a
meditation, or something where you are persistently consistent in not
thinking, so that in the absence in the thinking that is generating the
upset, your innate divinity, your innate Knowing can register with you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
See no illusion of truth and beauty there&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; where guilt is.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And be you thankful that there IS a place where truth and beauty wait
for you.
</div>

You see? When you&rsquo;re so convinced of your negative forecast about
everything, you are in a position where you&rsquo;re refusing to
consider, much less acknowledge &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; that there IS a place where truth and beauty wait for you.
</div>

That&rsquo;s why you&rsquo;re depressed. And that&rsquo;s why you are
bringing the force of your willfulness to bear upon the
situation&mdash;you have to do it because truth and beauty do not await
you and you must create it. But, &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; be you thankful that there IS a place where truth and beauty
wait for you.
</div>

Why? Because that will give you the nerve and the willingness to stop
thinking and do the two-step and engage in the holy instant, whether it
seems to be working or not. And persist, and persist, and persist.
Because although you don&rsquo;t know what will happen, you know that if
you persist in your devotion to your special relationship with your
thoughts, you will continue to be depressed. And the depression, the
frustration, the fear, the anger, the jealousy, all of it will increase
and become even more intolerable until you finally say,
&ldquo;Aagh…there must be another way!&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; be you thankful that there IS a place where truth and beauty
wait for you. Go on to meet them gladly, and learn how much awaits you
for the simple willingness to give up nothing BECAUSE it is nothing.
</div>

You see? [chuckling] You shall know the truth and the truth shall make
you free of nothing. Because it was nothing and is nothing, even though
you believed it was everything. You see? Ye, shall know the truth and
the truth shall make you free.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The new perspective you will gain from crossing over will be the
understanding of where Heaven IS.
</div>

Listen:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The new perspective you will gain from crossing over will be the
understanding of where Heaven IS.
</div>

Where is Heaven? It&rsquo;s not in your thinking. Where is Heaven?
It&rsquo;s in the Silence within you, where in the absence of your
thinking, the Father&rsquo;s Perspective&mdash;which He has embodied in
you, as You, because You are His Offspring&mdash;can register with you
and will register with you. That&rsquo;s where It is.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
From here&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the thinking standpoint that Paul was in this afternoon.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
From here, it seems to be outside and across the bridge.
</div>

You know, it&rsquo;s on the other side of getting people to change and
getting circumstances to be different from what they are.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
From here, it seems to be outside and across the bridge. Yet as you
cross to join it, it will join with YOU and become one with you.
</div>

Your Being, which is already in perfect harmony with all of Creation and
doesn&rsquo;t need to be in control of anything, can register with you
and will register with you when you do what it takes to let it in.

Now mind you, most all of you are doing this to one degree or another at
various times. What I&rsquo;m saying is not totally unknown to you. But
as I talk about it here, you can recognize how you slip back and forth
from clarity to devotion to your special relationships with your special
thoughts and how you disturb yourself, and then how you do practice the
two-step and find your peace returning, find clarity returning and
finding a capacity to be that in a way is utterly appropriate and
blesses everything. These are not strange things to you.

But I&rsquo;ll tell you, when you get hung up on your special
relationships with your special thoughts, your memory vanishes
[chuckling] because you are so committed to your special relationship
and you forget how easy it was once you finally decided the last time
that there must be another way, and you practiced another way.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet as you cross to join it, it will join with YOU and become one with
you. And you will think, in glad astonishment, that for all this you
gave up NOTHING!
</div>

Ye shall know the truth&hellip; you Knew the truth and the truth set you
free from NOTHING! It set you free from the belief you had that you were
connected to something when you weren&rsquo;t. Sanity has
returned&mdash;a source of great gratitude when you have the experience.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The joy of Heaven, which has no limit, is increased with each light that
returns to take its rightful place within it &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; every one of you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Wait no longer, for the love of God and YOU.

Wait no longer, for the love of God &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you know &hellip; re-Awaken your love for your Source,
re-Awaken your willingness to not claim independent autonomy. And let
yourself have a Father, since you have a Father. Let yourself have a
Source that isn&rsquo;t you, because you have a Source that isn&rsquo;t
you. Let your love of God return

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Wait no longer, for the love of God and YOU.
</div>

You see? You will find yourself to be most loveable.

Why do you get so hung up on your ideas? Because at the bottom line, as
long as you perceive yourself as an orphan, you perceive yourself to be
unloved and therefore unloveable. And so everything you are doing is
geared to prove your lovability and validate you as loveable. And so you
don&rsquo;t love yourself. You don&rsquo;t recognize that which is
loveable about you because you don&rsquo;t know who you are. And
that&rsquo;s the only reason.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Wait no longer, for the love of God and YOU. And may the holy instant
speed you on the way, as it will surely do if you but let it come to
you.
</div>

To let the Holy Spirit &hellip; to let that which is nothing more than
your right Mind come to you, you have to shut up the one you think you
are&mdash;the one you t-h-i-n-k you are. You see? The one that you keep
maintaining by thinking that is what you are.

Here&rsquo;s the simplicity, all that we&rsquo;ve been talking about.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that which is nothing more than your right Mind &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; asks only this little help of you.
</div>

What little help? That you let it come to you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And may the holy instant speed you on the way, as it will surely do if
you but let it come to you. The Holy Spirit asks only this little help
of you.
</div>

The little help is a simple, quiet, undisturbed invitation to know of
the Father or the Holy Spirit or your Guide, &ldquo;What is the truth
here.&rdquo; That&rsquo;s all.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Whenever your thoughts wander &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; thoughts &hellip; thoughts &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; wander to a special relationship which still attracts
you&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and that could mean the special relationship you&rsquo;re
having with another person or other things as well as your very own
thoughts which are your greatest love.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Whenever your thoughts wander to a special relationship &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; all thoughts wander to a special relationship today, they
wandered to his special thoughts.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Whenever your thoughts wander to a special relationship which still
attracts you, enter with Him &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; capital &ldquo;H&rdquo; the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; into a holy instant, and there let Him release you.
</div>

See, isn&rsquo;t it amazing and isn&rsquo;t it wonderful that nowhere in
this process is there any way for your ego to get hold of anything.
Listen to this:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Whenever your thoughts wander to a special relationship which still
attracts you, enter with Him into a holy instant, and there let Him
release you.
</div>

&ldquo;Oh, it&rsquo;s going to be done for me? Oh, you mean I&rsquo;m
not going to be able to take credit? Oh, what the hell is that going to
say about me &hellip; you know? How on earth can that say anything good
about me whatsoever, except that I&rsquo;m sort of a kept man or a kept
woman by this Holy Spirit, whoever It is &hellip; you know. I&rsquo;m
just His puppet. I&rsquo;m just whatever He wants me to be.&rdquo; You
see? [chuckles] That&rsquo;s right. No ego satisfaction from it. But you
see, the ego, as a thought that you have and that you&rsquo;ve defined,
is a mental practice that absolutely blinds you to what you truly Are.

And so the only way you can get to the experience of who you truly Are
is by releasing this that you have never been, and letting that which
you have always been, in. And that&rsquo;s not an act of will, that is
an act of willingness. You see the difference?

Again, because it&rsquo;s so important:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Whenever your thoughts wander to a special relationship which still
attracts you, enter with Him into a holy instant, and there let Him
release you. He needs only your willingness to SHARE His perspective to
give it to you completely.
</div>

You don&rsquo;t have to be willing to take it all. You only have to be
willing for Him to share it with you &hellip; you know, &ldquo;May I
share a piece of cake with you? May I share a little bit of you, with
you?&rdquo; You see? All you have to be willing to do is let Him share a
little bit of who you truly Are with you. And the minute you taste
yourself [snaps his fingers] you&rsquo;ll accept the rest.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He needs only your willingness to SHARE His perspective to give it to
you completely. And your willingness need not be complete because HIS is
perfect. It is His task to atone for your unwillingness by His perfect
faith, and it is His faith you share with Him there.
</div>

Now mind you, it sounds like two things:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; it is His faith you share with Him &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and yet, He is the Holy Spirit, which is nothing more than your
right Mind. The faith your right Mind has in you and in the way the
Father has set up your return to your sanity is, you in your right Mind
revealing Itself to you in your wrong mind with such perfect faith in
the way things truly Are that it can and will convey to you the fullness
of the Meaning of the truth about You.

And so you don&rsquo;t have to have what you would call a preexisting
capacity, and it isn&rsquo;t going to make a demand on you that
you&rsquo;re incapable of because it&rsquo;s not up to you &hellip;
thank God! It&rsquo;s up to that which is nothing more than your right
Mind, which because it is your right Mind and is the Presence of God in
action, will, when you&rsquo;re willing to let it in, do Its job
perfectly.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Out of your recognition of your unwillingness for your release&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the minute you realize what I&rsquo;m saying tonight about your
preoccupation with special relationships with your thoughts and with
things that keep you from Waking up.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Out of your recognition of your unwillingness for your release&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in your willingness to see, &ldquo;Wow, maybe I am doing that.
And maybe there is a different way for me to be.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Out of your recognition of your unwillingness for your release, His
PERFECT willingness is given you.
</div>

Well, as long as you&rsquo;re absolutely sure and self-confident in your
special relationships with your best ideas and theories &hellip; wow,
you won&rsquo;t get your release because you&rsquo;re not letting that
which is nothing more than your right Mind into your mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Call upon Him&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; practice the two-step, enter into the holy instant.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Call upon Him, for Heaven is at His call.
</div>

You don&rsquo;t have to be able to call for it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; Heaven is at His call. And LET Him call on Heaven FOR you.
</div>

You see? Waking up &hellip; the way to Wake up is already established.
Waking up is already in process and you are becoming conscious of the
elements involved so that you might be willing to know the truth and let
the truth make you free of things you don&rsquo;t want to let go of,
because something in you recognizes that that&rsquo;s the only way
you&rsquo;re going to have what you believe you deserve and which you do
deserve without your having to demonstrate your worthiness to have it,
because it&rsquo;s already your Birthright.

And that Birthright is available to you right in the middle of your
innate sanity, which never went anywhere but just got obscured by your
special relationships with your special thoughts.

Fantastic, isn&rsquo;t it? Be willing to embrace it with consistency,
with persistence, with diligence by abandoning personal control and
yielding into the holy instant.

I love you, I love you, I love you, I love you, I
love you, I love you all.

Okay.

[^1]: John 8:32
[^2]: T16.6 The Bridge to the Real World

