---
title: Jan 15, 2011
ref: "Discussion"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

Tonight we won&rsquo;t be going into the book. Tonight it&rsquo;s just
you and me: A family get-together, I guess you could say&mdash;one in
which I need to be very practical and very straight-forward.

And it&rsquo;s a good learning for everyone. Because doing the two-step,
engaging in the holy instant is not just a wonderful spiritual activity
full of bliss, and perhaps, not too much groundedness. No, it, as you
will find, as those of you who have engaged in it have found, is very
grounded, very practical, where the ideal is translated into the Real,
where transformation, correction, is manifest&mdash;manifest in a manner
that could be recorded with a video camera or a microphone or
observation &hellip; not just an up-in-the-head fairytale bliss.

It&rsquo;s important for everyone to know this because what I am sharing
with you is something that you can take into your experience and your
connection with your Guide and get right down to brass tacks, get down
to the nitty-gritty, get down to the needs and find them successfully
addressed because that&rsquo;s what you took into the holy instant with
you. That&rsquo;s what you practiced the two-step about.

There isn&rsquo;t going to be any world of harmony, there isn&rsquo;t
going to be any world of united countries without very practical
nitty-gritty changes taking place. And those nitty-gritty changes
aren&rsquo;t going to take place if everyone is on some holy
&ldquo;bender,&rdquo; if you will, imbibing the spiritual juices that
give you a high and a sense of bliss no matter how rugged everything is.

It&rsquo;s not intelligent. It&rsquo;s not reasonable. It&rsquo;s not
practical. It&rsquo;s nothing to be embraced not even casually.

The world needs changing. Why? Because the world as it is at the moment,
is not the way God is Being it at this moment. But it is the way people
are being in it, behaving as orphans&mdash;behaving as those who have no
Father, no divine Source, and nothing in them that is built, you might
say, that is created to express love and harmony and integrity and
divinity.

So, the changes that are going to occur in the world are going to come
from those, like you, who are willing to take your attention in the
moment you&rsquo;re in, relative to the things that are going on in the
moment you&rsquo;re in, and moving into the holy instant, doing the
two-step. And as someone said the other day, not doing the side-step.

Now I&rsquo;m going to be very practical here and this is the bottom
line of what I need to share with everyone tonight. You all, and this is
said with no arrogance, I&rsquo;m saying it because it is my task: All
of you need to hear what I have to say because I am sharing that which
will promote the united world that I&rsquo;m talking about. What
I&rsquo;m sharing is what will promote Awakening, where every Brother
and Sister comes into a conscious realization and experience of his or
her divinity, no longer imagining that he or she is
alone&mdash;isolated, suffering from independence.

Now Paul and Susan have, since 1982, devoted their attention to this
work with me. It is their pleasure. It is their Gift. It is what is
important to them. And although their egos&rsquo; have gotten in the way
from time to time, they have dishonored their egos enough to come back
to me and allow correction to occur and have steadfastly remained,
I&rsquo;m going to say, dutifully, or with wonderful commitment to the
work that I&rsquo;m doing with them, through them, through their
efforts, through their willingness.

Now you need to hear me. I need Paul to hear me. I need Paul and Susan
not to be distracted from their devotion. And their devotion is to the
truth as I&rsquo;m expressing it. I need them to be able to reasonably
be in their peace.

Now, as many of you may know, day before yesterday, I sent out a letter
to everyone on the Foundation&rsquo;s e-mail list and I know it has been
shared further than that. In it, I shared the fact that support for this
work&mdash;monetary support&mdash;dollars and cents, financial support
has been dwindling. And since the new property was purchased, the
contributions have suddenly dropped before the work could be completed
to allow for the transfer to the new property to occur fully and in
order for the old property to be refurbished, ready for sale.

Now they are transitioning to the new property and bringing the work to
the new property at my direction&mdash;not at their wish. In fact, there
are strong feelings of a desire to be able to remain at the old property
and wondering why it&rsquo;s essential to move to the new property.

So it&rsquo;s not willfulness on their part or their choice. But they
have seriously asked, quietly in the stillness of their being, over and
over and over for almost a full year now, they have asked,
&ldquo;What&rsquo;s next? What do we need to know now? What is the next
step? What do we do to implement it? How do we have such an impossible
thing happen?&rdquo; And on and on and on, patiently, persistently,
willingly &hellip; and they have hung in there until they&rsquo;ve heard
the answer from me. And then they have taken each step.

They are in this new residence because this is where fulfillment of
Purpose is happening. This is where I know fulfillment of Purpose is
happening even if Paul and Susan are not positive. [chuckle] There is a
reason for being here.

There are those on the mailing list who wonder, &ldquo;Why do they need
such a big house? Why do they need such an expensive house?&rdquo; and
on and on and on.

It doesn&rsquo;t have anything to do with needing a big house or an
expensive house. It has to do with fulfillment of Purpose and where
it&rsquo;s happening and how to be in harmony with it so that Blessing
occurs that is called for and that is coming forth.

There is reason for this work to be done in this particular location and
I will not go into it with Sue or Paul or you or anyone else at this
time. But I will stand firmly in sharing with you the fact that there is
perfect order to it.

It is requiring Paul and Sue, despite the slim pocketbook, to listen for
that which is beyond their present level of comfort&mdash;that which is
beyond their present knowing. There is a call for them to listen more
deeply than before because there is more to be shared that is more
significant than before.

I need their attention. I need their peace so that they can listen,
which is what they want to do. They don&rsquo;t want to get up every day
and get in the car and go to the Post Office and see if there are any
contributions and then take them to the Bank and make a deposit and then
ask me how do we disperse the little that we have so that forward
movement can occur.

I need their attention. I need the attention they want to give to me.
And you need them to be able to give me their attention. Because when
they do, everyone is blessed. Everyone learns something. Everyone is
able to take a step forward a little further than before. And the simple
fact is, that little steps, tiny steps, careful steps, self-protective
steps that don&rsquo;t upset things too much are not appropriate
anymore.

It&rsquo;s time. It&rsquo;s time to begin Waking up. It&rsquo;s time for
these changes to occur in the world. You say, &ldquo;Oh-h, these changes
are gonna to take centuries &hellip;&rdquo;

No. All it takes is an idea expressed in a way that can be recognized.
Expressed in a way that it&rsquo;s value appears to be valuable, so that
the one it&rsquo;s presented to, who would never in his life have
considered it, will spontaneously embrace it&mdash;have an
&ldquo;ah-ha&rdquo; experience&mdash;have all of the resistance
disappear. It can be somebody in government, it can be somebody nowhere,
out in nowhere in internet land who simply posts a little message [snaps
fingers] that catches the attention and the idea moves like wildfire.
And suddenly those who were enemies are willing to work together just
because it&rsquo;s the obvious thing to do, even though a week ago it
was obvious that such a thing couldn&rsquo;t possibly happen. Why?
Because vengeance is being held on the past and it&rsquo;s being applied
to the present in order to get even for the past. And we&rsquo;re going
to be talking about that &hellip; not tonight.

Now, there are those who have suggested that if indeed I am Jesus, why
don&rsquo;t I just wave my hand and have gold coins appear on the table
in front of Paul and Susan that would take care of their situation and
allow them to experience their peace?

Well, you know what? That is what I&rsquo;m doing right now. I&rsquo;m
waving my hand. And in the wave of my hand and the use of my voice,
I&rsquo;m involving everyone who&rsquo;s hearing it. I am causing
something to happen. The thing is, that instead of the manipulation of
gold, a metallic substance, it&rsquo;s a manipulation of your mind,
it&rsquo;s a manipulation of your capacity to see something that you
hadn&rsquo;t seen, so that that which didn&rsquo;t seem reasonable to
you can seem reasonable.

Waking up is about abandoning isolation&mdash;isolation from your
Father/Mother/God and isolation from your Brothers and Sisters. And what
I am promoting here is the breakdown of isolation between Brothers and
Sisters, so that each of you act in a way that blesses each other. And
that includes blessing Paul and Susan because their blessing blesses
you. They are part of the Movement that you are a part of.

How come they&rsquo;re always asking for money? How come you don&rsquo;t
have a spontaneous, joyous response that says, &ldquo;I want to
help?&rdquo; Whether you&rsquo;re called upon to help or not, why
isn&rsquo;t that the response?

Now, I&rsquo;ve said it before, those of you who are hearing my voice or
reading my words&mdash;however it might be at the moment&mdash;you are
the ones who value what you&rsquo;re reading or hearing and you&rsquo;re
the ones who know that it&rsquo;s worth other people having available to
them. Therefore, it falls upon you to become involved. And, as the
saying goes, &ldquo;put your money where your mouth is,&rdquo; . . put
your money where your commitment is&hellip; put your money where your
valuing is because you love your Brothers and you love your Sisters and
you want to find a way to be involved with each other and break the
isolationism.

In other words, what I&rsquo;m presenting to you here is, that rather
than having a Foundation that charges for everything they do, I have set
up a Foundation that makes a Gift of everything and operates on the
basis of Gifting being returned as an expression of gratitude, as an
expression of love, as a willingness to participate in that which
extends the message and allows it to continue. You see?

The way it works simply doesn&rsquo;t allow for isolationism, it
doesn&rsquo;t allow for privacy. It calls for involvement&mdash;the
abandonment of privacy. It involves what&rsquo;s involved in the
two-step and the practice of the holy instant.

Now, I am aware that those who have contributed, have contributed as
much as they could because they really do care about the work. I&rsquo;m
not asking anyone to do what they cannot do.

But you know what? There are those of you listening, watching, reading,
who have been valuing the work for sometime, who are quite capable of
providing the support that will allow the transition to be completed and
for the old property to be refurbished and sold and for the constant
trips to the Post Office and the Bank to come to an end and Paul and
Susan can return to a more, let&rsquo;s say, a less hectic daily process
in which it&rsquo;s much easier to be in their peace.

Mind you, as I&rsquo;ve said before&mdash;since 1982&mdash;they have
lived within invisible means of support, not controllable, not there
where you can put your finger on it. And they&rsquo;ve done this since
1982. And they have learned how to be in their peace living on the basis
of trust and listening, and the receipt of Guidance.

Most of you would not find yourself able, at this moment, to experience
that degree of peace with no visible means of support on-goingly,
confronting needs, emergency&rsquo;s, whatever as they have arrived. It
will be your blessing to arrive at a point where you can, because
circumstances will govern you less and less and Guidance will be
accepted by you more easily.

Now, out of love and respect for Paul and Sue, I must say, that the
level of invisibility of their income is more than it&rsquo;s necessary
for them to have to cope with and maintain their peace in, because
it&rsquo;s not the result of a lack on their part, it&rsquo;s not a
result of their inattentiveness&mdash;of not having their attention in
the right place.

It&rsquo;s a result of the family, if I may put it that way. It&rsquo;s
a matter of everyone involved in this work, who finds it so valuable,
not being grounded enough to recognize the practical need. And not
listening enough to find that their reluctance to abundantly support is
one of the things they&rsquo;re at the threshold of being corrected
about, where a shift will occur in which the willingness to support
abundantly, not just the Foundation or Paul and Sue, but in other parts
of the family where support is needed and the tendency is to think,
&ldquo;Oh, well, that&rsquo;s not my responsibility. Oh, if they had
handled their situation differently, they wouldn&rsquo;t do it, they
wouldn&rsquo;t need it, so therefore it isn&rsquo;t appropriate.&rdquo;
You see?

It&rsquo;s time for a shift, where the first thing that occurs is,
&ldquo;I would love to be able to support this. I would love to be able
to actually have the specifics they needed&mdash;dollars and cents,
object, attention, whatever it might be. I wish to be abundant enough to
be able to be present for another without reservation, whether I&rsquo;m
called upon to do it or not.&rdquo; Just being willing to do it,
doesn&rsquo;t mean you are called upon to do it. But let&rsquo;s awaken
that in each of you which spontaneously loves, and initially in every
case, wants to find a way to witness for and on behalf of your Brother,
your Sister, your Country, another Country, et cetera.

You know, Paul and Susan will persist whether support is meager or
abundant. They will find ways to do the two-step and to practice the
holy instant and to move in their peace no matter how unreasonable the
circumstances might be. And of course, that&rsquo;s what Paul has been
doing this evening. And so the situation isn&rsquo;t going to remain
imbalanced.

But it&rsquo;s important for every one of you whose participating in and
appreciating the work that Paul, Susan and I and Chris and those who
help bring forth, it&rsquo;s time for you to accept the very practical
down-to-earth, grounded place you have in it. And instead of grousing
about it or feeling put upon, or demanded to do the impossible, take it
as the opportunity to find out how much more there is of you, how much
more love there is in you and how great a capacity you have to give
without feeling impoverished, or without dreading impoverishment.

So, there is a real need, for all practical purposes, there will need to
be at least Thirty Thousand Dollars ($30,000) to finish the transition
and sell the old property. It&rsquo;s just what it takes. It&rsquo;s
just what it takes for Paul and Susan and the work to be where I
recognize it needs to be done.

I think I&rsquo;ve been very clear. And I have been clear in a way that
hasn&rsquo;t insulted anyone, while at the same time causing some
self-examination to occur, not to see what&rsquo;s wrong with you, but
to see where a greater capacity to be in harmony with the right is, so
that you might support it and make a difference where it
counts&mdash;where it counts for you, where it counts for me.

As the saying goes, &ldquo;A word to the wise is sufficient.&rdquo;

I love you all. I love you all. And I look forward to being with you
next time.

