---
title: Jan 22, 2011
ref: "T16.7 The End of Illusions"
alink: "/acim/text/16/chap1607/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

*The End of Illusions* &hellip; glory hallelujah!

Now, let&rsquo;s remember that we&rsquo;re reading from a chapter which
we&rsquo;re at the end of, entitled The Forgiveness of Illusions. And
so, before we continue on with this next section, let me ask: What does
the word, &ldquo;forgiveness&rdquo; mean? What does the word,
&ldquo;illusions&rdquo; mean?

I&rsquo;ll give you a moment to contemplate the answer based upon what
we have been reading for quite a few weeks.

Illusions are misperceptions which you believe to be true perceptions.
I&rsquo;m going to refine that a bit to be more clearly precise:
Illusions are perceptions which are believed to be knowledge. And even a
more subtle adjustment: Illusions are perceptions which are believed to
be Knowing &hellip; Knowing meaning the direct experience of truth
itself, not an observation of truth from a distance, but a direct
experience, I&rsquo;m going to say, of the Mind of God in you
experiencing what God Knows about each and every thing.

In that context, perceptions are misperceptions. Perceptions are
observations of truth. Perceptions are observations of truth that you
have come to conclusions about, that you have thought and reasoned about
and about which you have created a definition and you believe your
definition to be an accurate assessment of what you&rsquo;re observing.

Again, illusions are perceptions which you believe are
Knowing&mdash;Knowledge.

Now how do you forgive illusions? What is forgiveness?

Forgiveness is the act of withdrawing your commitment to and belief in
your perceptions or misperceptions.

Forgiveness is the act the shifting from your perceptions, your
definitions&mdash;the meanings you have given everything. It&rsquo;s
your abandonment of those and your shifting back to the Father&rsquo;s
Perspective. &ldquo;Father, what is the truth here? Holy Spirit, what is
the truth here? What do I need to Know now?&rdquo; You see?

Forgiveness is not some wonderful gift you give to the
unforgiven&mdash;to those awful ones who truly have been unlike God and
truly have been mean and damaging. Forgiveness isn&rsquo;t the wonderful
beneficence of extending to them your willingness to overlook their
awfulness and withdraw your judgment.

That&rsquo;s not forgiveness. That&rsquo;s holding that other one to the
awful perception you have of them&mdash;the awful definition you have of
them &hellip; and then you say, &ldquo;But in spite of that, out of the
fullness of my heart and out of my having been touched by the Holy
Spirit, I withdraw my judgment.&rdquo;

You have done nothing if you still see an unforgivable one there whom
you have just happened to have enough of a spiritual experience to
forgive.

Remember, an illusion is a perception believed to be Knowing&mdash;a
misunderstanding believed to be a true experience.

How on earth can anyone else have anything to do with your act of
forgiveness? How can anyone else have anything to do with your
willingness to say, &ldquo;Wait a minute here, I&rsquo;m going to do the
two-step. I&rsquo;m going to abandon the thought I just had about that
one. And I&rsquo;m going to rejoin with my Father so that I might not
have a private experience of this other one&mdash;a private perception
of this other one&mdash;and I might join with my Father Who has placed
in me His Mind because He has expressed in me all that He Is and I am
His Son, I am His Daughter, I&rsquo;m His Offspring just as my Brother
is. So Father, what is the truth here?&rdquo;

See, you&rsquo;re abandoning your definition of your Brother and you are
withdrawing your investment of trust and faith and commitment in your
own beliefs, so that you might join with the actual direct experience of
the truth of your Brother from That which is the Source and the
condition of your Brother&mdash;God.

So, what have we been basically reading about, talking about in this
chapter, if it hasn&rsquo;t been the holy instant? That is how the
forgiveness of illusions is implemented. And you&rsquo;re clearer about
this than you ever have been before as a result of what we&rsquo;ve
covered.

It&rsquo;s becoming clear that the act of the forgiveness of illusions
is going to ultimately be the way you Be consciously forever. Right now
you think it&rsquo;s just a technique&mdash;it is the way it has been
presented, it is a means of getting out of illusion. But what it really
is, is you re-embracing the natural action or activity of your Mind, of
your Being.

And so you will find that indeed, you will forgive illusions and you
will come to the end of the experience of illusions. But this act of
joining won&rsquo;t then stop. It won&rsquo;t be a matter of it not
being needed anymore, it will be that in the process of abandoning your
illusions, you have come into the right use of your Mind and you will
stay there forever.

One always learns from experience. And when one learns from experience,
one doesn&rsquo;t make the same mistake again as a general rule, if the
learning is complete. And I promise you when this learning is complete,
you will not again say to one of your Brothers, &ldquo;Just for the heck
of it &hellip; just because we can do it, let&rsquo;s join together in a
mutual agreement about something and give it a definition different from
what our Father gave it&mdash;different from what our very Being gave
it. Let&rsquo;s imagine another meaning and let&rsquo;s agree to it and
let&rsquo;s exist in that mutual agreement between ourselves. And hey,
we may be able to get a few others to join us in this interesting
diversion from just being the Sons and Daughters of God.&rdquo;
Actually, those aren&rsquo;t the words that were used, but
you get the idea.

So, going into the book, the new section is:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
THE END OF ILLUSIONS[^1]
</div>

&hellip; and the first sentence says:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is impossible to let the past go without relinquishing the special
relationship.

It is impossible to let the past go without relinquishing the
special relationship.
</div>

Well, that&rsquo;s a reverse way of saying what the two-step is,
isn&rsquo;t it. Because the two-step is a matter of letting yourself be
so present in the present, that you are experiencing everything with
innocent eyes. And in that space you don&rsquo;t find yourself
experiencing a special relationship. You aren&rsquo;t finding yourself
experiencing a hateful or mean-spirited relationship. You don&rsquo;t
find yourself experiencing a relationship in which leverage is called
for to make you feel more valid. You see?

So the reverse of the two-step is to say:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is impossible to let the past go without relinquishing the special
relationship.
</div>

Think about it &hellip; or contemplate it.

When you&rsquo;re having a special relationship, you&rsquo;re having an
interaction with something without your connection to your Father,
without a conscious experience of the divine one that you Are, who is
engaged in a relationship with someone else or something else. If you
were aware of who you divinely Are while you were in relationship with
someone or something else, you would immediately be aware of their
holiness, their divinity &hellip; you see? . . which would not
constitute an unconsciousness of who your Brother is, or of who you Are
and therefore, no special relationship would be experienced.

Therefore, all day long, every day when you&rsquo;re engaged with your
fellowman, whether it&rsquo;s family or strangers or co-workers,
whatever, when you&rsquo;re engaged with them and there&rsquo;s no
awareness of your holiness or your connection with God at the moment
that you are involved with your Brother and Sister, then where are you?
Are you in the present? Are you in the now? Are you in the only place
where the holy instant is? No.

If you aren&rsquo;t, then you are involved with everyone from your
memory. That means you&rsquo;re involved with them from the past. Your
perceptions of them are based upon what&rsquo;s happened with them
before.

The only way you can have an experience of their innocence from anything
that happened before, is to be looking at them with the Father.
It&rsquo;s that black and white. But that makes it that simple, because
all you have to do is abandon that simple misperception by forgiving it.
And you forgive it by engaging in the two-step: Hesitating, silencing
yourself and in the silence, saying, &ldquo;Father &hellip;&rdquo; which
of course means reminding yourself of who you Are, the Son or Daughter
of Something, &ldquo;&hellip; what is the truth about my Brother? What
is the truth about this?&rdquo;

And so you break the isolation&mdash;the autonomy. And you invite the
direct experience of the Father&rsquo;s Perspective about your Brother
as well as You. Because once you see it about yourself or your Brother,
you see it about the other. Once you see it about yourself, you see it
about your Brother. Once you see it about your Brother, you immediately
experience the fact that your Knowing is the truth about you as well.

So, remember that. You might just want to jot a little note down and put
it on your refrigerator that embodies the idea that, if you&rsquo;re
engaged with a Brother or with anything in the world and at the moment
that you&rsquo;re involved with them, you are not consciously
activating, you might say, your connection with your Father for the
purpose of having His Perspective available to you, then everything that
is going on in that interaction with your Brother is arising out of
memory&mdash;is the context of the involvement is memory, is past.
It&rsquo;s that simple.

And so &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is impossible to let the past go without relinquishing the special
relationship.
</div>

They are simultaneous and they are the same act. Relinquishing the
special relationship is relinquishing the past.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For the special relationship is an attempt to RE-ENACT the past and
CHANGE it.
</div>

Oh, you have a grievance &hellip; a very righteous grievance. And
anybody you tell will agree with you that you are right. And that
justice is due you and so you must go back and bring forward, you might
say, into the present with your Brother whom you have a grievance with,
the issue &hellip; and then attempt to extract whatever will satisfy
your need for justice.

That is called the human condition. That is called what you&rsquo;re
wanting to Wake up from. If that is not the fundamental reason
you&rsquo;re studying the Course, then let it become the fundamental
reason for studying it. I&rsquo;ll bet you thought I was going to say,
if that isn&rsquo;t your fundamental reason for reading it, then throw
the book away. No. If that isn&rsquo;t the fundamental reason for
reading it, then let it become your fundamental reason for reading it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Imagined slights, remembered pain, past disappointments, perceived
injustices and deprivations &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; perceived &hellip; catch the word there &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; all enter into the special relationship, which becomes a way in
which you seek to restore your wounded self-esteem.
</div>

And what satisfaction everyone gets who engages in this, it&rsquo;s
about the only real hit of satisfaction you can get as an
orphan&mdash;as someone who doesn&rsquo;t know his Father or Mother, his
Source, and therefore, doesn&rsquo;t know the Source of his Brother or
Sister or world.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What basis would you have for choosing a special partner WITHOUT the
past?
</div>

Well, you could say, &ldquo;Well, I could want to have a relationship
with my Brother that doesn&rsquo;t involve the past just so that we
could have fun! We can go to the movie, we can go to Disneyland, we can
go out and have dinner, we can enjoy life together!&rdquo;

Wait a minute &hellip; where did I hear, &ldquo;Oh, well, we could get
together and go out and see a movie or engage in fine dining while
experiencing it all through the Father&rsquo;s eyes, and do it without
any aspect of the experience falling outside of the call or the need to
experience it as God is Being it.&rdquo;

In other words, where was there in that expression any indication that
there was going to be an intent to experience the holiness of you and
your friends, who were going to engage in a relationship minus the past,
and everything that you were going to be enjoying? Nowhere. And if that
isn&rsquo;t in there, then I promise you, you&rsquo;re not having a
direct experience of Reality. All of It, no matter how good it is, is
occurring within the context of memory. It is therefore, in the context
of the past and you are hampered by, you are limited by this ignorance
of Reality.

And it&rsquo;s not your Birthright. And no matter how good it is, no
matter how long it might seem to remain good, it will turn sour because
sooner or later, your innate sanity&mdash;the Holy Spirit in
you&mdash;is going to get your attention and is going to say &ldquo;Hey,
you are suffering from illusion. You are believing that your perceptions
are Knowing, you are believing that your perceptions of it all are
Knowledge&mdash;the Father&rsquo;s Perspective. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What basis would you have for choosing a special partner WITHOUT the
past?
</div>

Well there wouldn&rsquo;t be any.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Every such choice is made because of something "evil" in the past, to
which you cling, and for which must someone else atone.
</div>

Oh boy, the getting of justice is &hellip; oh-h, it&rsquo;s a precious
activity full of meaning, full of the promise of satisfaction.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The special relationship TAKES VENGEANCE on the past.
</div>

But you know what? It looks like someone taking vengeance on someone in
the present.

Now&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
By seeking to remove suffering in the past, it OVERLOOKS the present
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; hey, if you are not in the present by virtue of being connected
with your Father and in that joining experiencing His Perspective, then
you&rsquo;re not in the present. You are in the past. When that happens,
red lights should go on&mdash;flashing red lights should go on:
You&rsquo;re not in touch with Reality! And that should be disturbing.
It shouldn&rsquo;t be that which encourages you to be with even more
vigor and to accomplish more things while still being unconscious in the
hope that that fervor and activated commitment will make you more real.
You see? It is insane.

No special relationship is experienced in the present.

Now, why say this over and over? &ldquo;No special relationship is
experienced in the present &hellip; no special relationship is
experienced in the present &hellip; oh, no special relationship is
experienced in the present!&rdquo;

&ldquo;What good does it say, what good does it do to reiterate that?
Quit putting it in my face!&rdquo;

I&rsquo;m sorry &hellip; it needs to be put in your face. And it&rsquo;s
not an unkindness and it&rsquo;s not an affront to you. It&rsquo;s a
reminder of something that you&rsquo;ve forgotten&mdash;all of you have
forgotten it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
NO special relationship is experienced in the present.
</div>

That&rsquo;s not a statement of what&rsquo;s wrong with you.
That&rsquo;s a statement that illuminates what will allow for the
correction. If no special relationship is experienced in the present,
then it means that all you have to do is bring your attention into the
present with the willingness to abandon the past and you will be out of
the special relationship. You see, it has to be said so that you know
that not doing that or doing the opposite&mdash;by being in the
present&mdash;will undo a special relationship. You need to know that.
That&rsquo;s the answer&mdash;not a problem shoved in your face. You
see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Shades of the past envelop it, and make it what it is. It HAS no meaning
in the present, and if it means nothing NOW, it cannot have any real
meaning at all.
</div>

Oh, but it does have real meaning. Well, let me suggest this: Genuinely
&hellip; genuinely bring yourself into the present and genuinely with no
artifice, ask to know the truth, ask to know the God&rsquo;s honest
truth, ask to be filled with the conscious awareness of what is Real,
and you will find that everything you thought was real&mdash;that was so
worthy of being fought for&mdash;has actually vanished from your mind.
It&rsquo;s not even left there to do anything with, because in the
influx of the truth is the influx of your ever present capacity to
directly experience Reality&mdash;what God is being as Knowing, as
Knowledge. And you will find yourself feeling love for that which is
absolutely loveable, because there is nothing unlike God where you were
seeing your Brother. And there&rsquo;s nothing unlike God present in you
as your experience as you&rsquo;re engaging in this. So test it
genuinely.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
How can you change the past EXCEPT in fantasy?
</div>

After all, it&rsquo;s always the present isn&rsquo;t it?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And who can give you what you think the past deprived you of? The past
is nothing.
</div>

That&rsquo;s because the present is All. The present is eternity and
infinity unseparated from each other. Omnipresence is what it Is
&hellip; the present, the now. That&rsquo;s why the holy instant is the
threshold from perception to Knowledge, from perception to Knowing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The past is nothing. Do not seek to lay the blame for deprivation on it,
for the past is gone. You cannot really NOT let go what has ALREADY
gone. It must be, therefore, that you are maintaining the illusion that
it has NOT gone because you think it serves some purpose that you want
FULFILLED.
</div>

Not the least of which is obtaining justice. And not the least of which
is your need to be able to coerce your orphan brother or sister to
confirming your validity so that you might overcome the invalidity that
is natural and unavoidable in orphanhood.

So again&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It must be, therefore, that you are maintaining the illusion that it has
NOT gone because you think it serves some purpose that you want
FULFILLED. And it must also be that this purpose could NOT be fulfilled
in the present, but ONLY in the past.
</div>

The ego mindset will never direct your attention to the present as
though that&rsquo;s where the solution might be. It needs your attention
in the past, where your divinity and holiness cannot register with you.
It&rsquo;s that simple.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Do not underestimate the intensity of the ego&rsquo;s drive for
vengeance on the past. It is completely savage and completely insane.
</div>

Just pay attention to what jealousy has done to each of you at different
times &hellip; maybe not often, but when it has gotten hold of you just
watch what it has done&mdash;and what it has done to you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is completely savage and completely insane. For the ego remembers
everything that you have done which offended it, and seeks retribution
of YOU.
</div>

Mind you, the very fact that the orphan mindset or the ego mindset never
directs your attention where you can learn the truth, is all the proof
you need that its intent is destructive and is ultimately to destroy
you. What does that mean? To destroy any capacity you might have to
remember you are the Son and Daughter of God, because that simple truth
is your release. From what? From illusion.

We&rsquo;re learning about the forgiveness of illusion and we&rsquo;re
now giving our attention to the end of illusions.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The fantasies it brings &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the ego &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The fantasies it brings to the special relationships it chooses in which
to act out its hate are fantasies of YOUR destruction.
</div>

Well, when you&rsquo;re engaged in attaining justice and getting even,
you&rsquo;re not aware that anything that&rsquo;s going on is
destructive to you. But those of you who have followed this insane
attempt to prove your worth at the expense of another has not only kept
you from remembering who you Are and providing you the place to go
to&mdash;meaning the holy instant&mdash;that would release you from the
dream, from the illusions, it has destroyed what you would call your
human life, your human experience.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For the ego holds the past AGAINST you, and in your ESCAPE from the
past&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; which happens when you practice the holy instant &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; it sees itself deprived of the vengeance it believes that you
so justly merit.
</div>

It sucks you in. You deserve justice &hellip; you deserve
justice: Go for it, go for it, faster, faster, good, good, go for it, go
for it, faster, faster, good, good &hellip; it goads you on.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet without your alliance in your own destruction, the ego could not
hold you to the past.

In the special relationship, you are ALLOWING your destruction to be.
</div>

Some of you who are engaging in it now, don&rsquo;t see this. Many of
you who have done it, know the profound truth of what I&rsquo;m saying.
And those who know the profound truth of it would say to those of you
who think there&rsquo;s still validity and reason and intelligence in
seeking justice and revenge &hellip; they would say to you, &ldquo;Stop
dead in your tracks. You don&rsquo;t have to learn the hard way. You
don&rsquo;t have to end up in the gutter. You don&rsquo;t have to end up
down on your hands and knees in your one hundred or five hundred
thousand dollar home praying for release from your
obsession&rdquo;&mdash;the obsession that is causing everything to
collapse around you because you&rsquo;re not able to be present enough
and attentive enough to the present to respond to the present
intelligently.

Hell &hellip; Heaven &hellip; whatever &hellip; take the time to
hesitate, take the time to stop dead in your tracks, or alive in your
tracks before you are dead, and say, &ldquo;Father, what is the truth
here? Father, I want to experience my Brother the way You are
experiencing Him because I no longer wish to be deluded. It&rsquo;s
important to me not to be deluded any longer. I insist on not being
deluded while at the same time being happy with the way things are. I am
no longer satisfied with that kind of a split experience&mdash;that kind
of an insane experience.&rdquo; Isn&rsquo;t that the first part of the
two-step? I believe it is.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In the special relationship, you are ALLOWING your destruction to be.
That this is insane is obvious. But what is less obvious to you is that
the PRESENT is useless to you while you pursue the ego&rsquo;s goal as
its ally.
</div>

And I promise you, if the present is useless to you, then your salvation
is unavailable to you, your Awakening is impossible to you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The past is gone; seek not to preserve it in the special relationship
which binds you to it, and would teach you that salvation is past, and
that you must return TO the past to find salvation.
</div>

Justice &hellip; yes, justice.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is no fantasy which does not contain the dream of retribution for
the past.
</div>

You see? We go on and on and on talking about how bad things
are&mdash;that things aren&rsquo;t good. Yeah, that&rsquo;s right.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The past is gone; seek not to preserve it in the special relationship
which binds you to it, and would teach you that salvation is past, and
that you must return TO the past to find salvation.
</div>

You see? Well, if that&rsquo;s not where salvation is, where is it?
Fortunately that&rsquo;s included here as well. You haven&rsquo;t just
been told what the mess is, you&rsquo;re also provided the solution. The
solution is: The present. And you know what? It&rsquo;s always
available. You can&rsquo;t run out of it. All the rest &hellip; everyone
else can&rsquo;t get it all and you be left without it. [chuckling]
There&rsquo;s plenty of it. It&rsquo;s abundant. It&rsquo;s
ever-present. And as I said, it&rsquo;s Omnipresent.

So you have the answer. Abandon your grievances. How? Not through some
wonderful spiritual act of beneficence where you let the bastard off the
hook even though he&rsquo;s still a bastard. You see? Where is the
forgiveness in that? But that is what most everyone thinks it is.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is no fantasy which does not contain the dream of retribution for
the past.
</div>

Here&rsquo;s the question:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Would you act out the dream, or let it go?
</div>

Hey, this question is the simple threshold of Awakening. You don&rsquo;t
need to read anything else in this book. Answer the question by your
action.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Would you act out the dream, or let it go?
</div>

I need to keep reminding you in spite of all the rather technical,
psychological stuff we read, that it&rsquo;s this simple, it&rsquo;s as
simple as what is embodied in this one sentence.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Would you act out the dream, or let it go?

In the special relationship, it does not SEEM to be an acting out of
vengeance which you seek. And even when the hatred and the savagery
break briefly through into awareness&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your awareness &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the illusion of love is not profoundly shaken.
</div>

The illusion of love that keeps the special relationship in tact. The
fact that &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; even when the hatred and the savagery break briefly through
into awareness&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; it isn&rsquo;t enough to trigger an awareness in you that there
must be another way of looking at this, that there must be another way
of being.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet the one thing which the ego never allows to reach awareness is that
the special relationship is the acting out of vengeance &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what? Here it is &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; on YOURSELF.
</div>

You are always the brunt of the vengeance you bring to bear on a Brother
or a Sister out of great self-righteousness.

Listen to it again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet the one thing which the ego never allows to reach awareness is that
the special relationship is the acting out of vengeance on YOURSELF.
</div>

Hey, maybe you haven&rsquo;t all experienced an overt engagement in
being vengeful and almost totally ruining your life, but almost all of
you have had an experience of knowing someone who has. Learn from your
simple observation. Because the moment you have an inkling of a real
grounding awareness that your practice of vengeance is destroying you,
you will stop, because you will not knowingly engage in acts of
self-destruction&mdash;even though you are the Son of God and you cannot
ever stop being the Son of God and you can never actually die&mdash;you
will stop doing what causes you to feel like you&rsquo;re dying and to
go through experiences of excruciating pain and sorrow and guilt that
are not the Birthright of the Sons or Daughters of God.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet the one thing which the ego never allows to reach awareness is that
the special relationship is the acting out of vengeance on YOURSELF. But
what else COULD it be? In seeking the special relationship, you look not
for glory in YOURSELF. You have denied that it is THERE&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you poor little orphan that you are.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have denied that it is THERE, and the relationship &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the special relationship &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; becomes your SUBSTITUTE &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; becomes your substitute &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; for it.
</div>

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In seeking the special relationship, you look not for glory in YOURSELF.
You have denied that it is THERE, and the relationship becomes your
SUBSTITUTE for it. And vengeance becomes your substitute for Atonement,
and the ESCAPE from vengeance becomes your LOSS.
</div>

Why? Because you cannot, in the heat of the vengeance, remember that
there&rsquo;s such a thing as a two-step or a holy instant, or a
Birthright that is yours, that everything that you&rsquo;re engaging in
is denying. It&rsquo;s that simple.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; vengeance becomes your substitute for Atonement, and the ESCAPE
from vengeance &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Waking up through the holy instant &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; becomes your LOSS.
</div>

All of this goes on in the context of the Kingdom of Heaven, in which
all that is going on is God being All there Is, in which everything that
exists partakes of the nature and character and Being of God. But when
you&rsquo;re caught up in the orphan mindset, when you&rsquo;re caught
up in the vengeance, when you&rsquo;re caught up in the justice, you
forget it&mdash;you lose grasp of that awareness. But because it&rsquo;s
the ever-present truth, we can say, as it says here in the Course:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Against the ego&rsquo;s insane notion of salvation the Holy Spirit
gently lays the holy instant.
</div>

Against all this wild, frenetic, compulsive, obsessive reaching for
validity by extracting justice and getting others to validate your worth
&hellip; against that wildness, chaotic activity &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the ego&rsquo;s insane notion of salvation the Holy Spirit
gently lays the holy instant.
</div>

It&rsquo;s right there gently present with each one of you to let
yourself into, to relax into, as you would relax into your
Father&rsquo;s Arms and let your misperception be lifted from you, let
your perception be gently replaced with Knowing&mdash;meaning the
Father&rsquo;s Perspective in you, as yours.

I love you all. You are blessed with the truth. You are blessed by what
you were before you ever heard me speak. You are blessed by what you
will be blessed by when you no longer need to hear me say these things.
And you are blessed by a Brotherhood and a Sisterhood that you are part
of, although, not consciously at this moment, but that in Awakening you
will become conscious of. You do not have to stay bound.

Okay.

[^1]: T16.7 The End of Illusions

