---
title: Feb 5, 2011
ref: "T16.7 The End of Illusions"
alink: "/acim/text/16/chap1607/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

Well, we&rsquo;ve put a lot of emphasis on the holy instant and I know
that many of you are feeling that the holy instant ought to work better
than it does, because you&rsquo;ve been doing your very best to practice
it and the problems seem to be very stubborn and unyielding and you seem
to be making no progress.

There&rsquo;s a reason for it. And that&rsquo;s what we&rsquo;re going
to be talking about tonight.

I&rsquo;m not going to start with the second sentence, I&rsquo;m going
to back up to the first sentence that we ended with last week:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Against the ego&rsquo;s insane notion of salvation the Holy Spirit
gently lays the holy instant. We said before that the Holy Spirit must
teach through comparisons, and uses opposites to point to truth.[^1]
</div>

Now, one very simple factor here is that the ego&rsquo;s plan for
salvation, which simply put, means you thinking your way through a
problem, you reasoning your way from failure to success, you doing
something out of your independent competence to succeed. That&rsquo;s
the ego&rsquo;s plan for salvation. And to you, that feels like the way
that works. That&rsquo;s more significant than I may have made it sound.

You are all convinced that the means to your success lies through your
thinking processes, through your independent use of your
mind&mdash;that&rsquo;s what works.

Now, the Holy Spirit teaches through comparisons and opposites. And as a
result, as we talk about practicing the holy instant, about doing the
two-step, it sounds as though you&rsquo;re being invited to do something
that will not work because it&rsquo;s an abandonment of what you are
absolutely convinced does work and is the only thing that does work.

So you walk into this practice of the holy instant handicapped, you
think, because you&rsquo;re being required to set aside what will work,
what does work for something that you are positive can&rsquo;t work
because it doesn&rsquo;t involve the use of your reasoning and your
thinking and your mind to find the way&mdash;the creative way&mdash;to
solve the problem to be successful. You see? Not to say anything of the
fact that this way doesn&rsquo;t feed your ego and there&rsquo;s no way
for you to feel the hit of accomplishment, if in fact, the holy instant
works.

So, your mindset is a handicap to you as you move into this practice
which I tell you is the only way out of the human condition. It&rsquo;s
the only way out of the orphanage. It&rsquo;s the only way back into
your right Mind. It&rsquo;s the only solution there is.

Now:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The holy instant is the OPPOSITE of the ego&rsquo;s fixed belief in
salvation through vengeance for the past.
</div>

And that&rsquo;s always what success is. That&rsquo;s always what the
ego&rsquo;s purpose is: Vengeance against the past.

However, from the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s vantage point:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In the holy instant, it is accepted that the past is gone, and with its
passing the drive for vengeance has been uprooted, and has disappeared.
</div>

You must understand that the Holy Spirit has a different starting point,
if you will, than the ego does. The Holy Spirit&rsquo;s starting point
is it&rsquo;s intimate, indivisible, conscious awareness of God&rsquo;s
Purpose and God&rsquo;s Will and the fact that giving attention to
God&rsquo;s Will is the only means of securing and holding and forever
experiencing divine sanity. You see?

Now the problem with this is that none of that connects with your
conditioned need to find ways to accomplish things that give you the
credit, that make you real, that make you valid, that make you competent
and respectable. You see? And as it&rsquo;s been said,
&ldquo;there&rsquo;s the rub.&rdquo;[^2]

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In the holy instant, it is accepted that the past is gone, and with its
passing the drive for vengeance has been uprooted, and has disappeared.
</div>

And you say, &ldquo;Well, how can I accept that it is gone? You say it
is accepted that it is gone but how do I arrive at the experience of
that when I know it&rsquo;s not gone. I&rsquo;m turning to the holy
instant, I&rsquo;m desiring to practice the holy instant in order to
make it go away. And so the fact that I&rsquo;m asking, is a statement
that the problem is here, that the past is not gone, that the vengeance
has not been uprooted and has not disappeared.&rdquo; You see?

And this way of thinking disturbs the peace of the holy instant and
distracts you from the experience of the absence of the past and the
fact that vengeance has been uprooted. And so you, in practicing the
holy instant, must have some basis for giving your weight to all of the
meanings that we&rsquo;ve been discussing about the holy instant.

And here&rsquo;s the basis for it. The basis for it is: That your
perceptions of the world and universe&mdash;not having been gathered
from your conscious communion with the Father, in which the Father has
shared His Perspective with you so that you recognize It as
yours&mdash;your interpretations of the world and universe are false.
They are flawed. They are illusions. They are delusions.

To hold onto whatever holds those delusions in place cannot constitute
salvation for you. And so you must be willing to abandon the convictions
you have, the commitment you have to your present definitions of
everything&mdash;the present meanings you&rsquo;ve given to everything.

Now there are those who read the Course or other spiritual traditions, I
will say, who say that the world and universe are an illusion. But
I&rsquo;m telling you and have told you over and over again, that the
world and universe is Creation Itself seen through a glass
darkly&mdash;seen through misperceptions. The misperceptions are the
only things that will disappear. What the misperceptions were about will
remain eternally, unchangeably in place.

What will uncover Creation to you in its natural eternal perfect state
is your practice of the holy instant. That means that in the shift of
perception that follows your commitment to the holy instant, there is
going to be transformation. There is going to be the disappearance of
sin, disease, death. There is going to be the disappearance of damage.
There is going to be the disappearance of imperfection. And most of all,
there&rsquo;s going to be the disappearance of the tendency for
imperfection to occur, and for the liability to be ill to occur.

Again:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In the holy instant&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; from the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s standpoint &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; it is accepted that the past is gone&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; why is it accepted that the past is gone? Because there never
was a past. The past is gone because the past isn&rsquo;t present. The
past doesn&rsquo;t exist. And the word, &ldquo;exist&rdquo; is a present
tense verb. The past doesn&rsquo;t exist.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In the holy instant, it is accepted that the past is gone&hellip;
</div>

When you move into the holy instant and you are in your peace, you will
not find yourself &hellip; you will not find your mind occupied with the
past, you will find your mind occupied with peace. And peace is always
present. It is always in the present. It is always an experience of
presence&mdash;the present. And with the passing of the past, without
the past being in any way occupying your conscious awareness, you will
find that &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the drive for vengeance has been uprooted, and has disappeared.
</div>

You see, the problem many of you are having presently is that
you&rsquo;re practicing the holy instant and you do pretty well &hellip;
but you look, and you say, &ldquo;But so-and-so is still being a bitch,
so-in-so is still being a bastard, so-and-so is still being dishonest,
so-and-so is still trying to take advantage of me. I felt a shift in me
but nothing happened and the situation is getting worse. I feel a shift
in me about my financial well-being, but my employment situation
isn&rsquo;t changing &hellip;&rdquo; or, &ldquo;The raise I was supposed
to get is not coming through, and not only for me, it&rsquo;s not coming
through but for many others.&rdquo; You see?

And all of this &hellip; all of this convinces you further that your
thinking is the viable, correct thing to value and base your responses
on and your feelings and your willingness to move forward or your
insistence upon giving up. You see? So what&rsquo;s the problem?

The next sentence says &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The stillness and the peace of NOW enfolds you in perfect gentleness.
Everything is gone except the truth.
</div>

And this is where you can begin to feel like this is all bullshit!
Because you&rsquo;re still in the same bad position you were, whether
you&rsquo;ve been enfolded in perfect gentleness and everything is
supposed to be gone except the truth.

But listen:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For a time&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in your practice of the holy instant &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
you may attempt to bring illusions into the holy instant to hinder your
full awareness of the COMPLETE difference, in all respects, between your
experience of truth and illusion.
</div>

It&rsquo;s your disbelief that you bring with you. You have faith, you
have hope, and you practice the holy instant. You bring willingness to
it but there is still doubt. There is still the lingering feeling that
the behavior you see and the circumstances you see truly are
real&mdash;that they are not illusions and that they are going to
debilitate you and injure you and ruin you. You see?

Be aware of it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For a time, you may attempt to bring illusions into the holy instant to
hinder your full awareness of the COMPLETE difference, in all respects,
between your experience of truth and illusion.
</div>

See, an injury, an imperfection&mdash;a physical imperfection&mdash;a
disease that seems to be active in your system, these things seem to you
to be real. They seem to be real things that somehow the holy instant
must invalidate and it might take a struggle because the problem is so
actual and so real. But you see, this feeling and this belief arises
from your vantage point. And your vantage point is a frame of mind which
is not connected with its Source. It is a frame of mind in which you are
unconscious that you are the Son or Daughter of God, that you are not an
orphan, and that God is All. And therefore, whatever you&rsquo;re seeing
with these distortions is in itself absolutely perfect. And its
perfection is only escaping you because you&rsquo;re relying upon your
best judgments, your best thinking, your best reasoning, your
fundamental attempt to be an independent agent. You see?

There&rsquo;s a complete difference between that. When you&rsquo;re
looking as an orphan, you will see distortion. You will see sin,
sickness, death. You will see damage. You will see injury &hellip; it
goes on and on. You will see them. But it doesn&rsquo;t make them real.
It only makes them distortions of That which is flawlessly perfect right
there, right now. The difference is absolute. The difference is total.

And when you choose to practice the holy instant and join with the Holy
Spirit which is nothing more than your right Mind&mdash;your divine
Mind, that Mind in you which is the Father present in you&mdash;when you
turn to That, there&rsquo;s only one thing that can happen: The peace
will come, the clarity will pervade you, pervade your mind, pervade your
feelings and you will see everything anew. And damage, injury,
imperfections will simply stop presenting themselves.

Now I know this sounds like magic. This sounds, well, like we said:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the Holy Spirit must teach through comparisons, and uses
opposites to point to truth.
</div>

And because you know what is possible, then what I&rsquo;m telling you
must be impossible. You see? But it is what you need to know so that you
have the nerve, so that you have the guts, so that you can pull together
the stamina to persist in this (as far as the ego is concerned) crazy
endeavor of indulging in a holy instant in which you&rsquo;re going to
let go of your authority and you&rsquo;re going to say to Something
else, &ldquo;Fill me with your Authority, fill me with the power of the
universe that You are &hellip; I&rsquo;m going to just [chuckles]
&hellip; I&rsquo;m just gonna sort of shrivel away into nothing and be
nothing here and I&rsquo;m gonna let the Somethingness that You are be
all there is to me. Hey, goodbye cruel world.&rdquo; You see?

But the orphan&rsquo;s perspective is flawed. That is the perspective
that is flawed. That is the perspective that is not telling the truth.
That is the perspective that can&rsquo;t tell the truth because it
doesn&rsquo;t Know the truth.

And there is a way out of the orphanage. There is a way out of
&ldquo;the human condition.&rdquo; There is a way to Wake up. And Waking
up is not a false meaningless promise to provide you with some sort of
comfort during a miserable experience called, &ldquo;life.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For a time, you may attempt to bring illusions into the holy instant to
hinder your full awareness of the COMPLETE difference, in all respects,
between your experience of truth and illusion. Yet you will not attempt
this long.
</div>

I promise you, you won&rsquo;t. You will let go because you&rsquo;re
going to find yourselves slowly becoming discouraged. And fortunately it
will be a discouragement applied to the right thing. You will finally
become discouraged when it comes to attempting to save yourself, all by
yourself &hellip; and you ask for help.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In the holy instant, the power of the Holy Spirit will prevail because
you JOINED Him.
</div>

That which is nothing more than your right Mind will prevail when you
join with It, because in your act of joining you are making whole that
which for a while you pretended were two, were separate, distinct,
different. And so the Holy Spirit will prevail when you join because
you, in your joining, will be undoing your act of divorce, your act of
independence.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The illusions you bring with you &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you know, inadvertently, out of habit or because of your
unbelief.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The illusions you bring with you will weaken the experience of Him
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; for a while, and will prevent you from keeping the experience
in your mind.
</div>

The experience of what? The experience of the absence of vengeance. The
experience of the past. This will happen. And this is why it will seem
futile. You&rsquo;re doing what we&rsquo;ve been talking about and yet
for some there are incredible corrections, healings occurring. But for
the majority, they&rsquo;re not. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet the holy instant IS eternal, and your illusions of time will not
prevent the timeless from being what it is, nor you from experiencing it
as it is.
</div>

You see? What you are engaged in, in practicing the holy instant, is to
become disenchanted with delusions, it is to become disenchanted with
illusions. To arrive at a place where you&rsquo;re willing to look at
apparent sin, disease and death and so on and say, &ldquo;You know what?
If there is a God and if God is all, these things are not Real and I am
willing to withdraw my investment of faith and trust in what I think I
am seeing there. And on top of that, it is my intent to join with my
right Mind by asking of the Father, by asking of the Holy Spirit,
&ldquo;What is the truth here? And I am going to persist in
this&mdash;because there is no other solution&mdash;until I see the
miraculous, until I see matter start behaving like Spirit, until I see
healing occurring, until I see illusion disappearing.&rdquo;

Every one of you have had the experience of having illusions disappear,
what you call, &ldquo;healing&rdquo; occur. That gives you hope. That
keeps you going. But I&rsquo;m telling you, that this is to be a total
shift of perception and not just a healing here and a healing there. We
are talking about a shift from the unreal to the Real, from the
experience of Reality distorted to the experience of Reality as It is.
And in order to abandon Reality distorted, you have to abandon the way
of looking at things that causes it to appear to be that way.
That&rsquo;s all we&rsquo;re talking about. That is what is accomplished
through the holy instant. That is the purpose of the two-step.

&ldquo;Oh, but the world condition &hellip; you know &hellip; how many
billions of individual minds are there that would have to change in
order for there to be &lsquo;Peace on Earth,&rsquo; in order for there
to be &lsquo;Brotherly Love&rsquo; willingly expressed? It&rsquo;s
impossible!&rdquo;

Well, that&rsquo;s what the ego says. It&rsquo;s not what the Holy
Spirit says. And this book: A Course In Miracles, it&rsquo;s purpose is
to cause you to shift your allegiance from your best thinking and your
best judgments and your capacity to reason well, to withdraw your
investment from that, to abandon it, to let go of the attempt to be
successfully independent and join with your Source, so that the
perspective that your Source is Being and which is called Creation, no
longer escapes you. This is your Birthright.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What God has given you is truly given, and will be truly RECEIVED.
</div>

Not because it&rsquo;s forced on you, but because the actuality of it is
that there is no you that actually has the capacity to not receive it.
You think you do have a capacity not to receive it. And as long as you
don&rsquo;t receive it you&rsquo;re having the orphan experience.

But you know what? The orphan mindset is not governing Creation and
Creation is the only thing going on, Reality is the only thing occurring
right now. And so that which is not going on in Actuality will at some
point cease looking like it&rsquo;s going on. And that point where it
will cease is, when you stop energizing it by insisting upon
independence. Then delusions, then illusions will [snaps fingers] simply
vanish and you will have or experience what are called instantaneous
healings and the impossible&mdash;billions of souls experiencing who
they Are and expressing It [snaps fingers] can happen without it taking
a thousand or five thousand years for the current mentality of the
Planet to change and to change against its natural instincts, which are
to war and battle and overcome and control, et cetera.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What God has given you is truly given, and will be truly RECEIVED.
</div>

That means that it&rsquo;s already been received. It&rsquo;s already
embodied in you. It&rsquo;s already all there is of You. It&rsquo;s your
constituting presence.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For God&rsquo;s gifts HAVE no reality apart from your receiving them.
YOUR receiving completes His GIVING.
</div>

God has never had or engaged in an unsuccessful act. It&rsquo;s that
simple.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You will receive BECAUSE it is His Will to give. He gave the holy
instant to be given you, and it is impossible that you receive it not
BECAUSE He gave it.
</div>

You see? Here&rsquo;s the difference between the orphan&rsquo;s vantage
point and the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s vantage point.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When He &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; God &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; willed that His Son be free, His Son WAS free.
</div>

That means His Sons and Daughters are free right now. This is the
radical difference between Reality and unreality, between the Holy
Spirit&rsquo;s perspective and the ego&rsquo;s perspective, which are
totally opposite.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In the holy instant &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in that quietness that you go to and reach out to the Holy
Spirit or to the Father &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In the holy instant is His reminder that His Son will always be EXACTLY
as he was created. And everything the Holy Spirit teaches you is to
remind you that you HAVE received what God has given you.
</div>

You see, the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s vantage point is: That you&rsquo;re
neither behind the point of perfection, nor advancing toward it, that
you&rsquo;re at that point and must understand yourself therefrom. You
see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And everything the Holy Spirit teaches you is to remind you that you
HAVE received what God has given you.
</div>

Reality already exists in Its awesome perfection. That means everything
about you, everything about what you call the world and universe,
everything about your Brothers and Sisters &hellip; you see? . .
it&rsquo;s already flawlessly perfect right now. If you are seeing
imperfection there or anything less than loveliness &hellip; listen to
this: It is not there!

The holy instant and the Holy Spirit exist for the purpose of causing
the realization of that fact to occur in your mind, so that you might
willingly watch what isn&rsquo;t there disappear NOW, so that healing
and correction of illusion can occur NOW. Because there is nothing
existing that has to have something done to it to improve it.

Continuing:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is nothing you can hold against reality. All that must be forgiven
are the illusions you have held against your brothers. Their reality HAS
no past, and only illusions can BE forgiven.
</div>

You see? You&rsquo;re neither behind the point of perfection nor
advancing toward it, you&rsquo;re at that point and must understand
yourself therefrom &hellip; right now, today, here.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God holds nothing against anyone, for He is incapable of illusions of
ANY kind. Release your brothers from the slavery of their illusions by
forgiving them for the illusions which YOU perceive in them.
</div>

There it is. And watch it when the argument presents itself,
&ldquo;Well, that won&rsquo;t work.&rdquo; You know, there is a joke:
&ldquo;How many psychiatrists does it take to change a light
bulb?&rdquo; And the answer is: &ldquo;One, but the light bulb has to be
willing to change.&rdquo;

Well, I&rsquo;m sorry &hellip; your Brother doesn&rsquo;t have to be
willing to change in order for you to make the gift of the willingness
to persist in the holy instant until you find the Holy Spirit infilling
you with the conscious awareness of your Brother&rsquo;s present
inviolable and therefore eternal perfection.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Release your brothers from the slavery of their illusions by forgiving
them for the illusions which YOU perceive in them. Thus will you learn
that YOU have been forgiven, for it is YOU who offered them illusions.
</div>

Hey, if you&rsquo;re seeing the bastard or the bitch, you&rsquo;re
offering them that illusion. And if you persist in behaving as though
they are a bastard or a bitch, you will be consistently teaching them
illusions about themselves. You certainly will not be indulging in the
holy instant in which your awareness can be purified, filled with the
awareness of truth about them that causes your whole being, your whole
demeanor, your whole perception of them to be changed, so that even if
they seem to persist in bad behavior you won&rsquo;t respond as though
the behavior is real or true or calling for condemnation. And you will
find the words being present in you that illuminate that element in your
Brother that he or she recognizes as their perfect safety so that they
can let go of the defense that has caused them to seem to be a bitch or
a bastard.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In the holy instant this is done for you IN TIME, to bring to you the
true condition of Heaven.
</div>

So you seem to come to the holy instant because in your orphan mentality
you&rsquo;re experiencing a problem that you cannot ignore. And the Holy
Spirit, whom you reach out to, responds, not from the orphan level, but
from the level of communion with Reality, communion with God and
communion with You, as the divine one that you Are and reveals to you,
in time&mdash;where you as the orphan was experiencing the
problem&mdash;correction, the revealing or uncovering of the Kingdom of
Heaven that was being misinterpreted and suffered from. You see? And it
brings to you the true condition of Heaven. And that&rsquo;s the way it
works &hellip; and that&rsquo;s not magic.

By golly, you have to get past this point of the confidences you have
about what can&rsquo;t work and what can&rsquo;t be done because, only
that cannot work, only that cannot be done which the ego perceives,
which the orphan mindset perceives of what? Of the perfect Kingdom
of Heaven, but seen through the lens of independence, of being without a
Source, of being insane.

So, once again, we are still talking about the simplicity. What I mean
to convey tonight is, that you must be willing to see that it&rsquo;s
like there are two different orders of reality &hellip; that&rsquo;s not
the right word, because one of them is unreality. It&rsquo;s like two
different paradigms and yet paradigms seem to indicate validity even
though there may be a shift from one to another.

But the point is, that unreality is unreal. And the Holy Spirit is
speaking to you, is connecting with you, is teaching you from that Place
which is the Father&rsquo;s Mind, to reveal to you your alliance with
the Father&rsquo;s Mind and the fact that all there is to your Mind is
the Father&rsquo;s Mind. And therefore, there simply is no presence or
power that is binding you to the experience of illusion.

Be ready at every moment from now on to see delusions [snaps fingers]
vanish, to see healings [snaps fingers] occur, to see correction happen
where you were convinced it could not.

The Holy Spirit is not responding to you from the place you&rsquo;re
asking Him for help. You&rsquo;re asking Him for help from a place of
ignorance. He&rsquo;s answering you from a place of illumination. And
the fact is, that the place of illumination that He&rsquo;s speaking to
you from is your natural abode, because He is nothing more than your
right Mind.

You know what? A Course In Miracles, is not a course in miracles. A
Course In Miracles is not a book about a course in miracles, it&rsquo;s
all about you. It&rsquo;s all about learning how you&rsquo;re using your
mind, so that you can stop unconsciously binding yourself to limitations
which it&rsquo;s not your Birthright to be experiencing, and so that you
might be released into the fullness of your divine Being.

Wow! I love you, and you, and you, and all of you. I look forward to
being with your next week.

[^1]: T16.7 The End of Illusions
[^2]: Sheakspeare

