---
title: Feb 16, 2011
ref: "T16.7 The End of Illusions"
alink: "/acim/text/16/chap1607/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

Again, I&rsquo;m going to remind everyone that we&rsquo;re reading from
a chapter called, The Forgiveness of Illusions. And we&rsquo;re in the
last section of that chapter which is called, The End of Illusions.

I want everybody not to be too casual as we consider this.

&ldquo;Oh, yes &hellip; we&rsquo;re reading about the end of illusions.
Yes, isn&rsquo;t that wonderful?  Some day the end of illusions will
come.  The concept of the end of illusions is an amazing concept to
consider. What the actuality of it might be like is
mind-boggling.&rdquo;

Well, c&rsquo;mon everyone, let&rsquo;s stop all that bullshit! Because
you can talk about and think about the end of illusions and actually end
up being very casual about the end of illusions without ever
experiencing them.

There&rsquo;s nothing casual or simple or everyday about the end of
illusions. And you know what? This week I want you to get a piece of
paper and I want you to write the word, &ldquo;Radical&rdquo; on it. And
I want you to put it on your refrigerator or wherever you can see it
frequently. Put it on your dashboard.  Be reminded that Waking up is a
radical transformation of you. And it&rsquo;s a radical transformation
of the way in which you experience everything. My God, if you experience
the end of illusions and you are not confronted with anything but
Reality anymore, I promise you it&rsquo;s going to be radically
different &hellip; thank God.

Let the word, &ldquo;radical,&rdquo; shall I say, become less radical to
you so that you&rsquo;re willing to consider it as a possibility:
Radical healing &hellip; radical transformation &hellip; radical wonder
&hellip; radically perfect life &hellip; radically incredible unfoldment
of Being.

I mean, after all, if you&rsquo;re going to look at everything that
you&rsquo;ve been seeing and thinking was the &ldquo;human
condition&rdquo; was &ldquo;planet earth and the universe&rdquo; and
that&rsquo;s all it was, well I promise you that to suddenly experience
it as the Kingdom of Heaven without any aspect of its divinity escaping
you, that is going to be radically different!

And you know what? If you&rsquo;re not considering radical change, if
you&rsquo;re not expecting to be provided with the opportunity to
embrace radical change, I promise you, you will stay bound to what you
are expecting&mdash;to the less that you are expecting.

The holy instant. My God, we&rsquo;ve been talking about it for more
than a year &hellip; more than two years. Have you become numb to it?
Are you casual about it? Is it a wonderful subject and is it one that
since we have discussed it together, you can talk about more at length
than you ever were able to before? Are you able to express ideas about
it that make you feel better and make others feel better without your
actually having the experience&mdash;without actually experiencing
radical wonderful transformed Mind?

That&rsquo;s the point! That is why you go to the trouble of practicing
the holy instant.

In the holy instant, as we&rsquo;ve discussed, God&rsquo;s laws prevail.
God&rsquo;s Nature prevails. God&rsquo;s Intent prevails. God&rsquo;s
Love prevails. And in that place where God prevails, there is no sin,
sickness or death. To not experience sin, sickness or death when
that&rsquo;s all you ever have experienced, that is a radical change.

&ldquo;Oh, I know &hellip; but it can&rsquo;t happen to me. That&rsquo;s
why I like to think about it. I like to imagine that it can happen to
me, I like to be able to talk about why it can happen to me and what it
will be like when it happens to me &hellip; but, you know, [sighs] it
isn&rsquo;t going to &hellip; it hasn&rsquo;t &hellip; and I don&rsquo;t
see how it can.&rdquo;

Well, let me tell you: That&rsquo;s not radical thinking. That&rsquo;s
not being radical. That&rsquo;s not embracing the radical. All
we&rsquo;re talking about, all we&rsquo;ve been talking about is
embracing the radical.

When you say the Lord&rsquo;s Prayer &hellip; and you say, &ldquo;Thy
Will be done &hellip;&rdquo; don&rsquo;t you realize that you&rsquo;re
saying, &ldquo;I invite the radically different experience of being that
You provide than the one that I&rsquo;ve been providing myself while
I&rsquo;ve been claiming to be an orphan&rdquo;? &ldquo;Thy Will be
done&rdquo; is saying, &ldquo;I desire to experience Something radically
different from the best I&rsquo;ve ever been able to come up with in my
individual independent acts of creativity.&rdquo; That&rsquo;s what
you&rsquo;re saying.

Going into the book, and I want to point out to you that what
we&rsquo;re going to be reading tonight is like the frosting on the
cake. It&rsquo;s sweet, it&rsquo;s wonderful, it&rsquo;s beautiful
&hellip; [sighs] &hellip; but in all likelihood, it&rsquo;s not
what&rsquo;s happening in your life, at least not to any great extent.
And so what good does it do for it to be beautiful? What good does it do
for it to be sweet? So let&rsquo;s not be casual as we read it.
Let&rsquo;s not let it just be sweet and consoling and encouraging.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Remember that you always choose between truth and illusion;[^1]
</div>

&hellip; Why? Because there isn&rsquo;t anything else to choose between.
You are either choosing between what God is revealing to you and you are
embracing and letting find expression through you, or you are choosing
for illusion&mdash;which means, you are preoccupied only with your own
best thinking or worst thinking. No matter what it is, you are impressed
with your thinking, that&rsquo;s what you practice. And that is
illusion, because the moment you engage in that, you have withdrawn your
attention from your connection with the Father. You have pulled the
plug. No juice. No Source finding expression through you.

And so the experience is false. Simple.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Remember that you always choose between &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; [whispers] one of two things &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; truth and illusion; between the REAL Atonement which would heal
and the ego&rsquo;s "atonement" which would destroy. The power of God
and all His Love, without limit, will support you as you seek only your
place in the plan of Atonement arising from His Love.
</div>

Let&rsquo;s not slip past that too quickly. Because, what&rsquo;s being
said there is, it happens only as you yield to Him, only as you yield to
His Plan. And isn&rsquo;t that the movement of the holy instant?
Isn&rsquo;t that the movement of the two-step? You hesitate. You shut
up. You silence your thinking. And you turn from your independent stance
toward your Father&mdash;your Source&mdash;and you say, &ldquo;Father,
what is the truth here?&rdquo; and you join in that place of no orphan
self-assertion and in that place of listening for the Father&rsquo;s
Will, the Father&rsquo;s Perspective. What are you doing? You&rsquo;re
yielding your right to be assertive, independent,
controlling&mdash;you&rsquo;re abandoning that and yielding to the
Father.

Now listen:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The power of God and all His Love, without limit, will support you
</div>

&hellip; see, that&rsquo;s the frosting on the cake. That&rsquo;s the
unbelievable truth. That&rsquo;s the wonderful truth that everyone of
you hopes is true, wishes is true.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The power of God and all His Love, without limit, will support &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; as you seek only your place in the plan of Atonement &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; where do you fit in to the plan of Atonement? Where do you fit
in as the expression of God and not the expression of your will? You
see? It &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; will support you as you seek only your place in the plan of
Atonement &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what? which is &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; arising from His Love.
</div>

He&rsquo;s the authority. He&rsquo;s the Movement of Creation.

So, listen again:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The power of God &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; where God&rsquo;s laws prevail, where God prevails, and where
there&rsquo;s no sin, sickness or death.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The power of God and all His Love, without limit, will support you as
you seek only your place in the plan of Atonement arising from His Love.
</div>

So in a way, it&rsquo;s not really just sweet. It&rsquo;s demanding.
Because it puts it straight to you, what&rsquo;s called for, so
there&rsquo;s no confusion. But, it requires something of you that
you&rsquo;re not inclined to do. It requires you to abandon self-will.
It requires you to abandon authority that you think you have or ought to
be able to have. It requires you to abandon acts that you have engaged
in for the purpose of proving your worth, believing that if you
don&rsquo;t engage in them your worthlessness will prevail and be seen
by everyone. And you don&rsquo;t want that. And so you hold onto your
right to be self-assertive.

But when you do that, you&rsquo;re in the orphan mentality, you&rsquo;re
in the level of thinking, and you are not in that place where
God&rsquo;s laws prevail as far as you&rsquo;re concerned. You will not
be having that experience of His laws prevailing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Be an ally of God and not the ego in seeking how Atonement can come to
you.
</div>

Again, this requires self-discipline. Because your habit is to
immediately refer to your best conditionings, your best thinking, your
best concepts and a capacity you believe you have to express or use
logic so clearly and so well that it will cause you to be utterly safe
because the structures of the logic are impeccable and don&rsquo;t allow
for anything unlike it to enter in. This is a concept you have about the
use of your mind and what your mind can accomplish by being so perfectly
orderly.

And yet, all the time you&rsquo;re engaged in energizing that and giving
your attention to that, you&rsquo;re not listening.

Now I understand, you&rsquo;ve not been taught to listen. And you
didn&rsquo;t know that there was such a thing as the two-step or a holy
instant. But now you do. And that makes all the difference in the world.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Be an ally of God and not the ego in seeking how Atonement can come to
you. His help suffices&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in other words, it&rsquo;s all you need. You don&rsquo;t need
the added impetus of your will added to the Father&rsquo;s Will to make
God&rsquo;s Will be &hellip; be &hellip; to make God&rsquo;s Will be.
You don&rsquo;t need to add your will. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
His help suffices, for His Messenger &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; understands how to restore the Kingdom to you, and to place ALL
your investment in salvation in your relationship with Him.
</div>

Meaning, the Father. It&rsquo;s true.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; His Messenger &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; which is the Holy Spirit&mdash;which is nothing more than your
right Mind&mdash;what you might call, the part of your infinite Mind
that you have disowned in your act of independence.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; His Messenger understands &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your right Mind understands &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; how to restore the Kingdom to you.
</div>

It knows how to restore it to you because it knows that its, I&rsquo;m
going to say for lack of better words, merging with your little private
sealed off part of the totality of your mind will cause your mind, your
Being to be experienced in its totality. You see?

And that&rsquo;s how the Kingdom is restored. It&rsquo;s your sanity
being restored. It&rsquo;s your whole mindedness being restored. We
could say, it&rsquo;s your mind allowing for the ultimately radical to
be possible first, probable second, and incredibly different from the
best creativity you have been able to come up with, which has amounted
to acts of denying reality&mdash;acts of denying the Kingdom of
Heaven&mdash;because you&rsquo;ve been so busy giving your definitions
to what God already defined. And your definitions have been different
from the Father&rsquo;s. You see?

Again:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
His help &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; God&rsquo;s &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; help suffices, for His Messenger &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; understands how to restore the Kingdom to you, and to place ALL
your investment in salvation in your relationship with Him.
</div>

&hellip; with God.

The Holy Spirit, in reuniting your parceled off part of your mind with
It&mdash;with the wholeness of your Mind, that which is nothing more
than your right Mind&mdash;causes Reality to be your experience and
causes you to be utterly aware of the fact that what God is constitutes
the totality of you, and therefore, your radical holiness, we could
say&hellip; the experience will be a radically different experience.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Seek and FIND His message in the holy instant&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in other words, stop going elsewhere&mdash;meaning your best
thinking and so on. Stop going elsewhere &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Seek and FIND His message in the holy instant, where all illusions are
forgiven. From there the miracle extends to bless everyone and to
resolve all problems, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; radical change again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; be they perceived as great or small, possible or impossible.
</div>

You know, it doesn&rsquo;t say, &ldquo;It&rsquo;s nice to know that you
can find His message in the holy instant, where all illusions are
forgiven.&rdquo; It doesn&rsquo;t say, &ldquo;It&rsquo;s nice to know
that.&rdquo; It says, &ldquo;Engage in something.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Seek and FIND His message in the holy instant, where all illusions are
forgiven.
</div>

You know where all illusions are forgiven? In the seeking and finding.

&ldquo;Oh, I&rsquo;ll find it in the holy instant.&rdquo; No,
you&rsquo;ll find it in the seeking and finding. You see?

So this wonderful sweetness has a little substance to it, a little bite
to it perhaps, because it calls for something:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Seek and FIND His message in the holy instant, where all illusions are
forgiven. From there &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what happens?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the miracle extends to bless everyone and to resolve all
problems, be they perceived as great or small, possible or impossible.
</div>

&ldquo;Oh-h &hellip; her gallbladder is almost totally eaten up by
cancer. It&rsquo;s impossible for her to recover. Maybe someday medical
science will be able to grow her a new one quickly and replace it, but
until then it&rsquo;s impossible!&rdquo;

I&rsquo;m sorry that&rsquo;s not radical thinking. That&rsquo;s
fatalistic thinking&mdash;there is no God in it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; be they perceived as great or small, possible or impossible.

&hellip; the miracle extends to bless everyone and to resolve all
problems&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you see? This is radical. This is why you can&rsquo;t afford,
in the face of your conditioning, to look at the world situation or your
immediate situation in all of its chaos or all of its turmoil or all of
its suffering and sort of collapse on the floor and not make any room
for any radical stand&mdash;the embrace of any radical claim that
challenges the seeming actuality of the distress or the illness or
whatever it might be. From there &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the miracle extends to bless everyone and to resolve all
problems&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; but the only way &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the miracle extends to bless everyone and to resolve all
problems&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; is for you to &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Seek and FIND His message &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; where? Not in your best judgment, your best reasoning, your
best thinking, your best logic but in the holy instant. In that place
where you abandon your independence, you abandon your self-confidence
and you say, &ldquo;Father, I want to know the truth from You. I want
the whole truth and nothing but the truth from Your perspective. And
I&rsquo;m giving up my attempts to come up with my best solution or my
best definition. I yield. I seek only my place in the plan of atonement
arising from Your Love. I don&rsquo;t choose to seek my place on my own
in my independent locality.&rdquo; You see? It&rsquo;s simple.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Remember that you always choose between &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; two things &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; truth and illusion;
</div>

More sweetness:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is nothing that will not give place to Him and to His majesty.
</div>

Well it&rsquo;s the truth. But how many of you are having that
experience, or how many of you in the experiences that you&rsquo;re
having, read this and find yourself hard-put to accept it or perhaps you
are in such distress that you sarcastically laugh at it? I understand.
But:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is nothing that will not give place to Him and to His majesty.
</div>

How do you have the experience? You engage in being radical. You engage
in going against the status-quo. You be that which doesn&rsquo;t fit in
with the norm. You object to what everybody else is agreeing to. And you
object to it by not leaning into your own understanding. You object to
it by seeking and finding His message in the holy instant.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To join in close relationship with Him is to accept relationships as
REAL&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning something more than avenues of usury and manipulation,
where you &ldquo;best&rdquo; each other for purposes of gain at
others&rsquo; expense.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To join in close relationship with Him is to accept relationships as
REAL, and through their reality to give over all illusions for the
reality of your relationship with God.
</div>

See? Again:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Seek and FIND His message in the holy instant&hellip;

&hellip; give over all illusions for the reality of your relationship
with God.
</div>

In a way, you have to become like the Prodigal Son who has to become
sick and tired of wasting his abundance, of wasting his wealth, of
wasting his Birthright, where the thrill of the quest to be
independently somebody is just not interesting to you anymore. And
you&rsquo;re willing to say, &ldquo;Father, I want to know what Your
perspective is because I want to come back into my right Mind. And I
know that Your perspective is my perspective, if I don&rsquo;t object to
it. It&rsquo;s built into me. It&rsquo;s part of me. I&rsquo;m too tired
to continue aggressive independence.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Praise be to your relationship with Him, and to no other.
</div>

Right? The screws are being tightened down here causing things to be
very, very clear.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Praise be to your relationship with Him, and &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; to no other.
</div>

You&rsquo;ve got to be willing to abandon your relationship with: Oh,
your special thoughts. Oh, your special relationships. Oh, your special
skills. Oh, your best capacity to manipulate people and make them serve
you and make you be credible. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Praise be to your relationship with Him, and to no other. The truth lies
here, and nowhere else. You choose this or NOTHING.
</div>

Again, as we started out:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Remember that you always choose between truth and illusion;

The truth lies &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in your relationship with God &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and nowhere else. You choose this or NOTHING.
</div>

In order to find out that the chaos, the turmoil, the suffering, the
lack, the illness that seems to be binding you is an illegitimate
imposition upon a Son or Daughter of God, which means it is therefore
not actual but a distorted perception of something that is actual, which
is Creation Itself, which is flawless, absolutely pure flawless God
embodied. In order to have that experience, you&rsquo;ve got to be
radical enough to challenge it.

When you get to the end of a day&mdash;and, let&rsquo;s say,
you&rsquo;re perfectly well, you haven&rsquo;t had a symptom of any
problem of any kind for months, you&rsquo;re in the &ldquo;pink of
health,&rdquo; as they say &hellip; and you come to the end of the
day&mdash;you, let&rsquo;s say, have worked out in the yard,
you&rsquo;ve done a lot of things that were laborious (it was
invigorating to you while you were doing it) you&rsquo;ve come into the
house, you&rsquo;ve showered, you&rsquo;ve had dinner, you&rsquo;ve sat
down and you say, &ldquo;Wow, I deserve a rest &hellip; you know
&hellip; and when it comes time to go to bed I&rsquo;m going to sleep
beautifully.&rdquo;

Well, wait a minute! All of that seems very reasonable, but it&rsquo;s
far from radical thinking. It&rsquo;s far from the radicalism that would
be involved if you stopped right there and said, &ldquo;Father, what is
the truth here about this?&rdquo; Because as a divine Idea of the Father
expressed, you have no capacity to be exhausted. As it has been said,
&ldquo;God rests in action.&rdquo;[^2]

So, you see how easily you&rsquo;re sucked in. It doesn&rsquo;t even
have to be a physical problem, it doesn&rsquo;t have to be sin, sickness
or death. But just a mindset that says, &ldquo;You know, I&rsquo;m not
as capable now at eight o&rsquo;clock in the evening as I was when I got
up and started the day at eight o&rsquo;clock in the morning.&rdquo;
Well, wait a minute, why not? You could be. You see? Contemplate it.

Now, here&rsquo;s the prayer that amounts to the two-step and its
meaning:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
"Forgive us our illusions, Father&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; Oh, independence abandoned &hellip; Oh-h.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
"Forgive us our illusions, Father, and help us to accept our true
relationship with You, in which &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; there are no illusions, and where none can ever enter.
</div>

That&rsquo;s significant. That&rsquo;s because in the holy instant when
you&rsquo;re in that place, God&rsquo;s laws prevail. And illusions
cannot enter where God&rsquo;s laws prevail.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Our holiness is Yours.
</div>

In other words, I accept my Birthright. I accept that I am Your
expression, Your Son or Daughter. I accept that all there is to me is
what You&rsquo;ve embodied of Yourself in me as Me. And that You have
withheld nothing of what You infinitely Are in what You have embodied in
Me.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What can there be in us that NEEDS forgiveness when Yours is perfect?
</div>

And when I have chosen to be in the holy instant where Your laws
prevail.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The sleep of forgetfulness is only the unwillingness to remember Your
forgiveness and Your Love.

&hellip; unwillingness to remember &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; &ldquo;well, I&rsquo;m too busy taking care of things
myself.&rdquo; You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Let us not wander into temptation&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; temptation to what? Temptation to be angry. Temptation to be
jealous. Temptation to take advantage of your Brother. Temptation
&hellip; temptation &hellip; temptation.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Let us not wander into temptation, for the temptation of the Son of God
is not Your Will. And let us receive only what YOU have given&hellip;
</div>

Oh, that is so insulting to the orphan mindset&mdash;to the ego. Yet,
what are you doing when you do that? You&rsquo;re letting God&rsquo;s
laws prevail and radically change your experience of being, bringing you
back into your right Mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And let us receive only what YOU have given, and accept but this into
the minds which You created, and which You love. Amen."
</div>

You have available to you, every instant, to let each instant be the
holy instant. You are not short-changed in any way from having the
opportunity to practice the holy instant&mdash;instants are abundantly
provided.

Now, remember what I said. Keep the word &ldquo;radical&rdquo; in your
mind and remember that what we&rsquo;re talking about is not
&ldquo;ho-hum,&rdquo; average, casual fair for contemplation and
discussion and stimulating camaraderie that is nothing but a distraction
from actually seeking and finding His message in the holy instant, in
which you will find something happening because God&rsquo;s laws
prevail. And God&rsquo;s laws prevailing will cause your experience to
change radically. That&rsquo;s the promise and that&rsquo;s the truth!

I look forward to being with you next time. And I will be with everyone
as they practice the holy instant in support of your not forgetting to
expect the radically new.

Okay.

[^1]: T16.7 The End of Illusions
[^2]: CST Science and Health, p.519

