---
title: Mar 20, 2011
ref: Discussion
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

We&rsquo;re going to build on a subject that I opened up last week.

I mentioned that the problems being faced in the world at that point,
and actually now, arise from a fundamental mistake. And the fundamental
mistake is the belief that substance [wraps knuckles on table] is
matter. When the fact is that substance&mdash;the substance of
everything you encounter every day&mdash;is not matter. It is Spirit,
Spirit with a capital &ldquo;S&rdquo;&mdash;Spirit, one of the synonyms
or meanings of God.

Spirit is the substance of Creation. It is that out of which God
creates. It is that with which God creates. And the Creation is the
substance of Spirit patterned in the image of the Idea in God&rsquo;s
Mind.

You, every single day, are confronted by the patterned images, you might
say, of the Ideas of God. You are constantly in the midst of a totally
holy experience. But that is not what you believe, that is not what you
profess, and that is not what you, within yourself, are committed to.

You&rsquo;re committed to the definitions of substance as matter. A
dangerous thing to do because in the denial of what it really Is, you
lose the experience of what it really Is. And in your professed faith
and commitment to what you believe it is, you find yourself bound to
what?

Polarities: Positive/negative, peace/fear, life/death.

And as we&rsquo;ve been saying all along, this division of that which is
One into polarities was the result of your saying, &ldquo;Father,
I&rsquo;d rather see it my way. Father, I would rather define what this
is. I want to make up the definitions. And based on the definitions I
make up, I will create a world&hellip; I will create a world that serves
my definitions. In other words, a world that serves me. A world that
reflects what I&rsquo;ve determined reality to be&hellip;&rdquo; You
see? &ldquo;&hellip; because I&rsquo;m going to do it on my own.&rdquo;

Immediately, as we&rsquo;ve said over and over, two things come into
play: Fear and guilt.

Without polarities, guilt couldn&rsquo;t seem to exist. And there would
be no cause for fear. But polarities are inherent in the decision to act
at odds with God. Is that any surprise? The decision to act at odds
with God sets up what? A polarity. And that causes every perception
that follows that act to be polarized.

As a result, you&rsquo;re walking through the Kingdom of
Heaven&mdash;and you know I&rsquo;ve said this over and over, but
it&rsquo;s got to come home to you that I am speaking truth that today
in what you call this world&mdash;not another one afar off,
pie-in-the-sky-after-you-die, but right here and right now you&rsquo;re
in the middle of the Kingdom of Heaven [wraps knuckles on table]. The
substance of everything is Spirit, not matter.

And Waking up is a matter of doing the two-step, as we&rsquo;ve said,
going into the holy instant and abandoning your commitment to everything
you believe [again wraps knuckles on table] that that&rsquo;s matter,
that that&rsquo;s a physical organisimic body&mdash;born, matures, ages,
dies, because that&rsquo;s what material bodies do. Right?

You say, &ldquo;It&rsquo;s just not my belief. Look at all living
things&hellip; all living things die. That&rsquo;s what we&rsquo;ve
decided to call, &lsquo;the cycle of life.&rsquo;&rdquo;

Gee, it&rsquo;s almost poetic isn&rsquo;t it. It makes a mistake sound
really reasonable and embraceable doesn&rsquo;t it?

You&rsquo;re in a time right now&mdash;I mean literally, today,
yesterday, tomorrow&mdash;you&rsquo;re in a time in which events are
happening that I trust are making it easier for you to hear what
I&rsquo;m saying and bring into play in you a greater willingness to
abandon your confidence and for you to be willing to step outside of the
box of your traditional perceptions in order to consider something you
haven&rsquo;t considered before, such as: That you really are in the
middle of the Kingdom of Heaven and everything you&rsquo;re confronted
with or by is constituted of the substance of Spirit&mdash;God stuff.
And that therefore, because of what it actually Is, there is a different
experience of it awaiting you when you abandon your confidence that
it&rsquo;s just matter [slaps hands together]. I could as easily slapped
Paul&rsquo;s face&hellip; I could as easily punched someone else in the
nose as a demonstration that it&rsquo;s matter. Matter being polarized
can engage in activities which are harmful&mdash;hurtful. Right? But as
the substance of Spirit, these hands could pass right through each
other. Paul&rsquo;s definitions at the moment don&rsquo;t allow that
simple truth to be demonstrated, although he would enjoy having the
experience.

What needs to settle in and register deeply with you is, that everything
you can touch and feel, caress or slap, today&hellip; TODAY&hellip; not
after you die in Heaven, but today, is Spirit, not matter.

If you let that sink in, it&rsquo;s going to be obvious to you that you
have a really fascinating interesting task in front of you. You have an
activity to engage in, not just because it&rsquo;s interesting and fun,
but also because it&rsquo;s utterly intelligent to engage
in&mdash;experiencing what&rsquo;s true, rather than illusions, because
illusions bring with them suffering, polarities. You see? And you
don&rsquo;t really want that. And hey, if all of this that you see and
feel is the substance of Spirit, if it&rsquo;s all God stuff, then
really, what better activity do you have to engage in, than to delve
into, lean into, let yourself into the experience of what it truly Is?

Because then, you&rsquo;re in that place where God&rsquo;s laws prevail.
You&rsquo;re in that place where polarities do not exist. You&rsquo;re
in that place where regeneration and redemption can occur&hellip;
transformed experience of things&hellip; healing of bodies.

Now, I used the word, &ldquo;patterning,&rdquo; because when God has an
Idea it is a pattern. It is a pattern that is experienceable and
recognizable, tangible, as I&rsquo;ve said before, to the Mind which
forms it. There are no polarities to it. And there are no polarities or
differences between this particular pattern, you might say, a
hand&hellip; and this particular pattern which you would call, &ldquo;a
shirt&rdquo; or another particular pattern called,
&ldquo;plutonium&rdquo; or another particular pattern called,
&ldquo;gamma rays&rdquo; or another particular pattern called,
&lsquo;kidney&rdquo; or another particular pattern called, &ldquo;a
table.&rdquo;

Now the pattern is an idea that is comprehensible. In the Mind of God,
an Idea arises that is comprehensible. It is at that point already, a
pattern. And that pattern is recognizable to the Mind that formed it. It
is also recognizable to all that that Mind has formed&mdash;meaning all
of Creation&mdash;because it embodies the consciousness that God is, is
capable of recognizing and experiencing the new pattern. And so the new
pattern is a shared experience of unity.

Now, when you say, &ldquo;But Father, I&rsquo;d rather do it my way. But
Father, I&rsquo;d rather define things myself,&rdquo; you are incapable
of having an idea arise in you that is a pattern that is recognizable
and experienceable. You&rsquo;re incapable of initiating Creation from
scratch all by yourself.

And so, all you&rsquo;re ever doing when you&rsquo;re giving definitions
to things is re-naming what God has already patterned, renaming what God
has already been Being. And when you do that, your relationship with
that thing is polarized because you are holding it to a definition
different from the pattern or Idea that God is Being right there.

And as a result, the pattern that you would call a table becomes not an
idea which your body (has many ideas) can pass through and you could
carelessly run into the table and break your leg and fall and hit your
head and die. And you could have a polarized death-creating experience.
Not because it is what you think it is, but because you&rsquo;re
insisting on relating to it untruthfully. You are unwilling to relate to
it as it Is.

And all of a sudden, That which is incapable of polarities, That which
is incapable of manifesting in relationship to everything else pure and
utter harmony, it becomes something destructive. It&rsquo;s the same
thing with atoms. It&rsquo;s the same thing with gamma rays.

I know, you say, &ldquo;Well, the sun emits gamma rays, the sun emits
ultraviolet light, the sun emits substances that are not good for
man&rsquo;s health if he gets out in the sun too long&hellip; or if
there&rsquo;s a solar flare of extreme intensity.&rdquo; You see?
&ldquo;And so that&rsquo;s natural, that&rsquo;s part of God&rsquo;s
Creation.&rdquo;

I beg your pardon, it&rsquo;s not. But it is part of the way you
experience It while you are claiming to have the authority to give
definitions to everything on your own.

Now it&rsquo;s time for the suffering caused by polarities between
substances and polarities within substances themselves, to cease to be
governing any of you. It&rsquo;s time for you to dare to Vision anew.
It&rsquo;s time for you to dare to conscientiously practice the holy
instant. Why? So that you might yield to the Father&rsquo;s Perspective.
Because when you yield to the Father&rsquo;s Perspective you let
yourself back into your native perspective and you let yourself back
into a place where even if there is an emission of radioactivity from a
nuclear energy plant, neither you nor the cows nor the plants have any
negative effects from it.

Now why? Because the atoms in the leaves, the atoms in the plants, the
atoms in the cows, the atoms in the milk are all what? The substance of
Spirit. It&rsquo;s one unpolarized substance. It&rsquo;s one substance,
many forms but pure and utter harmony because they embody one intent.

As co-creators with God your task is to stop looking at all of this and
calling it something other than what it Is and making commitment to your
definition of it so that you stand at odds with what it really Is, while
you are attempting to get the thing, which you have defined anew to
serve your intents and purposes. It&rsquo;s time for that to stop.

It&rsquo;s time for that to stop today. And it&rsquo;s time for every
student of the Course to stop thinking that that isn&rsquo;t part of the
Awakening process, that that isn&rsquo;t part of what happens in the
holy instant. And that regeneration and redemption isn&rsquo;t inherent
in your saying, &ldquo;Not my will be done Father, but Thine be
done.&rdquo;

It&rsquo;s that simple.

&ldquo;You know&hellip; so a little puff of radioactivity is released
and maybe some of the cows in that prefecture&hellip; you know, maybe
their tissues are damaged, and maybe their milk is not good and maybe
they&rsquo;ll never be able to provide milk for anyone else and maybe
the plants there in a small radius might be damaged and maybe creatures
that live in that area will take on strange forms&hellip; why? Because
the pattern has been disturbed,&rdquo; You see? &ldquo;You know, and
isn&rsquo;t it a shame &hellip; I mean, ya know&hellip; thank God, it&rsquo;s
not the whole of Japan, but just&hellip; ya know, a small part of the
Northern part of Japan and you know&hellip;&rdquo;

That&rsquo;s sickening! That attitude needs to be squelched! Red flags
should go up when that kind of thought occurs to you.

&ldquo;Oh-h, but wait a minute&hellip; ya know, maybe they&rsquo;re
going to have to release more radioactive steam and materials into the
air&hellip; and they&rsquo;ve just discovered that the levels of
radioactivity on the West Coast of the United States are elevated a
little bit, not much, not enough to damage or hurt anybody&hellip;
ewww&hellip; &rdquo; but doesn&rsquo;t make those of you on the West
Coast of the United States sort of abandon your&hellip; you know, your
distanced perspective&hellip; &ldquo;Well it&rsquo;s happening over
there and isn&rsquo;t it a shame&hellip; and thank God it isn&rsquo;t
worse than it is. Oh my God, it&rsquo;s worse than I thought it was.
There is an elevated radioactivity on my shores where I
live&hellip;&rdquo;

You know what? Maybe a doomsday scenario here will never occur, but the
call for clarity, the call for putting into practice the holy instant,
the call to not be satisfied with mediocrity when it comes to your
health or your physical structure or your aging process and so on.

This is a wakeup call. This is an opportunity to heal the justification,
if I can put it that way, for actually leaning into the truth further
than you have, being open to the radical more than you have, and being
willing to dare to say, &ldquo;Maybe the substance of everything here
isn&rsquo;t matter. Maybe it is the substance of Creation
Itself&mdash;meaning Creation, God&rsquo;s Movement. Maybe it is! And
maybe it behooves me to be infinitely more diligent in giving my
attention to the clearer experience of Creation that I&rsquo;m being
told it is. Maybe it&rsquo;s time for me to expect to see regeneration
and redemption.

What is redemption? It&rsquo;s a return to the original, and I&rsquo;m
going to say, a return to the spiritual original. A return to the
pattern that the Father patterned by having the Idea, which is now
forever Eternal and forever made new, moment by moment by moment, and
which is incapable of sin, disease and death, so that I no longer have
to say, &ldquo;Well, you know, the substance of my liver or the
substance of my this, that or other part of the body has lost its
pattern&hellip; a new pattern has emerged and the new pattern is really
inimical to the function of the old pattern, so I&rsquo;m very likely to
die from this pattern change.&rdquo;

No. That&rsquo;s not being co-creators with God. That&rsquo;s being a
creator on your own. &ldquo;Well, I&rsquo;m going to say that this
kidney is not the substance of Spirit, and this other pattern
that&rsquo;s come into play and is disrupting the original pattern,
I&rsquo;m going to say that that&rsquo;s cancer. And I&rsquo;m going to
say that these two are incompatible with each other, that they will
eventually see the result of destruction. That&rsquo;s what I&rsquo;m
going to say. And that&rsquo;s what I&rsquo;m going to believe. And
that&rsquo;s what I&rsquo;m going to be afraid of. And that&rsquo;s what
I&rsquo;m going to dwell on until I die because I have no justification
for dwelling on anything else.&rdquo;

Do you think that&rsquo;s being a student of the Course? Do you think
that&rsquo;s being a student of truth? Do you think that is the result
of the holy instant that you&rsquo;ve been reading about, that
you&rsquo;ve talked about, that you want to have the experience of? No.
But the whole purpose of the Course is for you to have the experience of
what the Course is talking about. It&rsquo;s for you to have the
experience of how God Created things, which it&rsquo;s your Birthright
to be experiencing because after all, you aren&rsquo;t a lump of
physical organic flesh either&mdash;you&rsquo;re not something encased
in matter!

Everyone is lazy and lackadaisical. And it&rsquo;s time to employ some
vigor. It&rsquo;s time to use the circumstances at hand.

Well, really what difference is there really between swine flu and
radioactivity or summer colds or winter colds? &ldquo;Oh, well, they
sweep around the globe and they affect people, they&rsquo;re
transmittable, they can have an impact and people can die from all of
them.&rdquo;

Now, many of you, I know, have great confidence that a cold or swine flu
is something that can be healed through prayer, through the practice of
the two-step and the holy instant. But there are other things like
cancer and radiation poisoning that you say cannot. Hey, the effects of
that which is poisonous cannot be transmuted, nullified, made
ineffective or on the other side of the coin that maybe your immune
system could be potent enough to ward off the effects. You see?

But again, you see, that&rsquo;s polarities&mdash;that&rsquo;s one thing
having a negative power and another thing having a positive power that
can ward off the negative power. We&rsquo;re still in polarities
aren&rsquo;t we? We&rsquo;re in a war. We&rsquo;re still in the
independence stance of, &ldquo;But Father, I&rsquo;d rather define it
myself.&rdquo;

You haven&rsquo;t stepped out of that into that place where you say,
&ldquo;Father, what is the truth here?&rdquo; Wherein the benign-ness of
the substance of Spirit can be revealed to you, where you can feel and
experience wholly that there are no polarities and not only are there no
polarities between things, there is instead a bond of Love&mdash;not
bondage&mdash;but a bond, an embracing bond of Love communicated in and
through and around everything by everything in one great union of Love
expressed and expressing, given and received all as one event.

When you let that experience in&mdash;the feeling of it&mdash;because
it&rsquo;s been revealed to you by the Father, because you&rsquo;ve
said, &ldquo;Father, I don&rsquo;t want to fool around with my
definitions any longer, what&rsquo;s the truth here?&rdquo;&hellip; when
that comes in, again, you&rsquo;re in that place where God&rsquo;s laws
prevail. And you&rsquo;re in a place where a radioactive cloud or swine
flu germs or any other communicable, deleterious substance could have
adverse effects. You&rsquo;re in a place where that capacity simply is
no longer present.

The earth in Chernobyl does not have to be damaged, uninhabitable,
nonproductive for tens of thousands of years. The Earth needs healing.
Any damage that has occurred in Japan does not need to take a long time.
And people in that area do not need to live in fear for the rest of
their life&mdash;which I hope they realize is eternal and not
brief&mdash;they do not need to live those years in fear of cancers
forming because of this disturbance.

And you know what? Cancers that you might be experiencing in your body
that aren&rsquo;t the result of radioactivity or cigarette smoking or
any other action you might have taken that could cause it, that seems to
just sort of naturally have arisen, you don&rsquo;t need to spend
another day with that threat&hellip; you don&rsquo;t need to spend
another day with that threat.

You don&rsquo;t need to spend another day with that threat!

Why? Because there ain&rsquo;t no substance that is at odds with any
other substance. There is only One substance. It is the
substance&hellip; it is the substance that is Spirit&mdash;God&rsquo;s
stuff. And therefore, there is no legitimate justification for any
further misperception of polarities and conflict going on.

Now that&rsquo;s the truth, which if you will accept it and rest in it,
will cause you to experience the influx of the truth of it and you can
see instantaneous healing. You might also see it as gradual healing, if
you are not able to embrace the totality of it instantaneously. But the
point is, that transformation, regeneration and redemption should be
your absolute expectation everyday, whether there is a calamitous
emergency or whether it&rsquo;s just a little wart on your finger.
Don&rsquo;t tolerate it. Don&rsquo;t say, &ldquo;Oh, it&rsquo;s just a
little thing.&rdquo; I&rsquo;m not saying it&rsquo;s a big thing, but
I&rsquo;m saying, &ldquo;Hey, you&rsquo;re a holy Son or Daughter of
God, it&rsquo;s not your Birthright to be able to look anywhere and not
see. It is your Birthright to be able to look anywhere on your finger or
anywhere else and see the loveliness of the perfection of Creation.

And you shouldn&rsquo;t rest until you are having that experience.

You know, if you thought your life was boring and you didn&rsquo;t
really have much of any purpose to attend to, well now you can see that
you&rsquo;re very fortunate to have enough free time to have felt that
way because now you have something to fill it with that is really
significant.

Now, regarding the Middle East, I&rsquo;m simply going to say this
because it is something for you to know the truth about: Be interested
to observe intelligence coming forth to replace unintelligence. Healing
is occurring. And that which doesn&rsquo;t express intelligence
isn&rsquo;t leaving happily.

Old habits are not released easily with any of you. And old habits with
countries don&rsquo;t leave easily either. And effort has to be brought
into play to make the changes that undo the habits that didn&rsquo;t
express intelligence or humanity or dignity, all of which the Sons and
Daughters of God not only have a right to be experiencing but which all
the Sons and Daughters of God who aren&rsquo;t experiencing them need to
take hold of as diligently as those in the Middle East are taking hold
of it.

Let&rsquo;s not just profess what the Course teaches, let&rsquo;s embody
it and let&rsquo;s do the work necessary to let go of the old and to
embrace the new and make commitment to the new because the Kingdom of
Heaven [chuckling] is a hell of a lot nicer&hellip; a heaven of a lot
nicer than what you&rsquo;re currently experiencing, even though It is
what you are experiencing because It is what you&rsquo;re right in the
middle of but you aren&rsquo;t seeing It because you don&rsquo;t want to
see it yet&mdash;you want to see your definitions.

It&rsquo;s really important for you not to believe that the Kingdom of
Heaven is somewhere on the other side of death and somewhere afar off
because that will allow you to continue to doze right in the middle of
the Kingdom of Heaven and not see any of It. And to suffer without
having the slightest inkling that you could challenge it and disagree
with it and not embrace it and have a different experience.

What wonderful things to have healings of. You have things going on, the
healing of which will be wonderful, they will be significant, they will
be healings that will not allow anyone to think there is not a God. It
will be transformational, not only of the problem areas but of mankind.
And everyone on this globe needs and deserves to be experiencing a great
deal more joy than is being experienced right now. So be part of the
transformation into joy.

If that&rsquo;s not why you&rsquo;re interested in the Course, if
that&rsquo;s not why you&rsquo;re interested in the truth, if
that&rsquo;s not why you&rsquo;re interested in God, then you&rsquo;ve
missed the point.

I love you. And I join with each one of you in finding it justifiable to
practice the holy instant.

And I look forward to being with you next week.

