---
title: Mar 26, 2011
ref: Discussion
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

There&rsquo;s an old proverb which says, &ldquo;May you live in
interesting times.&rdquo;[^1]

Well, to say the least, you are in interesting times. But I want to
shift the focus a little bit from what you think the interesting times
are and what I think the interesting times are. You think the
interesting times are the events going on in the world&mdash;dynamic,
revolutionary, transformational&mdash;with both positive and negative
aspects.

But there&rsquo;s a more important interesting item. And that is, that
whether everyone knows it or not, everyone is standing at the threshold
of making a shift of perception of the sort that we&rsquo;ve been
studying in A Course In Miracles for quite some time.

The interesting times you are in are, the point in your apparent
development where you abandon your independence, your sovereignty, your
arrogance, your superiority and any position you think you have
achieved, and you abandon it in favor of allowing yourself to experience
a position which accompanied you in your Birthright.

You have a position: You are the Son or Daughter of God. Significant
position.

And in that position you have things to do, things that are different
from the things you&rsquo;ve done as a self-authorized independent
organism who has no divine Father and who has no divine Birthright, but
who arose out of matter and develops in matter and dies as matter and
perhaps does some incredible things in the process.

We talked last week about the fact that in your independent state, you
exist in a realm of polarities. It&rsquo;s unavoidable&mdash;it&rsquo;s
inescapable.

But in your divine Birthright, there are no polarities. There is
infinite unity. Infinite, meaning infinitely varied. Infinite, meaning
the experience of Being that is full of infinite variety of experience
and things. And yet in that infiniteness there are no polarities, there
is only communion. Not comchaos but communion. Everything fits together,
everything works together, everything communicates its meaning and its
intent and purpose with everything else simultaneously as an infinite
conscious experience free of fear, full of love.

Now, it&rsquo;s imperative that everyone recognize the fact that in the
realm of your Birthright where you are the Son or Daughter of God, where
there is unity, everything moves and has its Being in the context of and
the substance of Love.

There are no polarities in Love. And it&rsquo;s important to understand
that Love does not exist for the purpose of resolving polarities.

You sometimes forget that and think that you are studying the Course and
learning how to remove the blocks to Love so that Love can be used to
resolve polarities in the dream&mdash;in the orphanage, in the realm of
independent self-government. And that&rsquo;s not correct. It&rsquo;s
important to know that. Else you will try to apply Love to the
&ldquo;human condition&rdquo; to improve it.

When Love moves you out of the imagined condition called, &ldquo;the
human condition&rdquo; and reminds you and reveals to you once again
your divinity in that realm, in that place where God&rsquo;s laws
prevail and lifts you out of the place where there is conflict to be
resolved, it lifts you out of the perception&mdash;the misperception of
everything where conflicts need to be resolved&mdash;and uncovers a new
perception of everything you&rsquo;ve already been looking at in this
level or realm of unity where there is no polarity, where there is
nothing to resolve and where pure harmony is the rule and the experience
forever.

And so what you call, &ldquo;the human condition&rdquo; what you call,
&ldquo;the material world and universe&rdquo; becomes to you transformed
by means of the scales falling from your eyes, the ignorance falling
away from your vision so that you might see the Kingdom of Heaven that
it has been all along.

Now, everyone on your globe at this time is being called by one of two
teachers. And at the moment, the teacher that&rsquo;s calling to
everyone is the voice for fear. It&rsquo;s the voice that prevails in
the human condition&mdash;in that place where you claim an independent
autonomous position of power.

And you know what its function is? Its function is to get you off your
ass and resolve some polarities and to get you on the positive
side&mdash;in the positive polarity. You see? &ldquo;Get in there and do
something&rdquo; so that the negative aspect of the polarity becomes,
perhaps, a little invisible so that you&rsquo;re not really threatened
by it.

Fear always calls for self-preservation. If you&rsquo;re experiencing
fear it&rsquo;s because you are feeling threatened and you are feeling
the need to preserve yourself.

Now mind you, the voice for fear, not being the Voice for truth, is
never going to bring your attention to the Father, is never going to
bring your attention to the holy instant in which God&rsquo;s laws
prevail, and in which there are no polarities and in which because there
are no polarities, all apparent polarities cease to assert themselves
and vanish. And healing occurs.

Everyone globally is beginning to feel overwhelmed. Some of you
don&rsquo;t realize that is what is happening. You know that events are
occurring that are dynamic.  And of course, the media is picking up on
these dynamics and are sharing them with gusto and relish to everyone
because it keeps the attention on their newspaper or their TV station
and generates income for them and supposedly helps you in the process to
know the truth, except that so very often, they are promoting their own
agendas that have nothing to do with your well-being. And they occupy
your time as I said last week, with speculation that doesn&rsquo;t lead
anywhere, that does perhaps stimulate your thinking but which, because
of the vitality of the energy, causes you to become excited in the sense
of uneasy, in the sense of &ldquo;revved up,&rdquo; without peace.

You see all of this and because it seems exciting, causes you to accept
it without realizing that you are becoming uneasy. And that it&rsquo;s
not just excitement, that actually it&rsquo;s fear. And you need to pay
attention to this so that you don&rsquo;t just swallow it, you
don&rsquo;t just embrace the fear as though it&rsquo;s part of
the&mdash;this is the key word&mdash;dynamic of life which is
invigorating and lets you know that you&rsquo;re alive. You see?

And as a result, you don&rsquo;t challenge it. You don&rsquo;t really
realize, &ldquo;Hey, I&rsquo;m not comfortable. As exciting and
interesting as this is, I&rsquo;m not comfortable!&rdquo;

And if perhaps, you do realize that you&rsquo;re not comfortable, you
may not realize that you have a choice to abandon that experience. And
that&rsquo;s why I&rsquo;m here. And that&rsquo;s why I&rsquo;m talking
tonight. Because you need to realize that you have the option to abandon
it. And you need to realize that the process of abandoning it is a very
fundamental act that doesn&rsquo;t just &ldquo;improve the human
condition&rdquo; but actually moves you out of the human condition, out
of the ignorance that you suffer from, into a remembrance of your
Birthright in which there are no polarities, and in which the unity of
Being that it is your divine Birthright to be experiencing, you
experience release from the conflict that seemed so stimulating and so
newsworthy.

And in your being released from it, those still believing it, those
still caught in it, become blessed by a capacity to see the truth more
easily. Your withdrawal from the valuing of ignorance and illusion
causes it to be easier for those still caught in it to abandon it. It
causes the illusion to be less dense, less compelling.

And this is your job and this is where your attention needs to be.

You know, for centuries there have been conflicts and resolutions. But
we truly are coming upon a point where there&rsquo;s not just going to
be the resolution of conflict, but there&rsquo;s going to be the
shifting from the realm of conflict into the conscious awareness of
Being that you as the Son or Daughter of God deserve to be experiencing
because it&rsquo;s your Birthright and there&rsquo;s really nothing else
Real for you to be experiencing.

Now, you all can be good Christians or you can be good religious people
or you can be good students of the Course and find a way to make the
best of a bad situation, the best of the conflict that&rsquo;s going on
so that you might come through somewhat unscathed and still be where
everyone was after the crusades&mdash;still asleep, still dreaming
dreams, still experiencing the human condition.

Or you can, because of your education relative to the truth and A Course
In Miracles, use this opportunity to make the shift. What shift? Not
from a disastrous world condition to an excellent world condition, but a
shift from your allegiance to the voice for fear to an allegiance to the
Voice for truth.

A shift which Wakes you up&mdash;which ends the illusions, which ends
the conflict forever.

C&rsquo;mon &hellip; either everyone is expecting Armageddon or everyone
is expecting the Rapture&mdash;the upliftment of mankind.

Well, let&rsquo;s stop having those polarized dynamics as interesting
ideas to talk about, think about, and let&rsquo;s right now begin to act
out the choice of choosing for the Voice for truth. Opting for
that&mdash;the nature of which is Love&mdash;so that you might be the
agent for change here that heals an injured world, I&rsquo;m going to
say, not just of injuries current, but injuries past. And that reveals
each one of you and everything without blemish&mdash;without
flaw&mdash;with complete restoration of every part of you and every part
of everything.

You know what? Fear is an artificial sensation. You know, we say,
&ldquo;Oh-h, when the fall occurred, or when you got your divorce from
the Father, two things came into play: Fear and guilt.&rdquo;

Well I&rsquo;m going to tell you something: Fear is an artificial
sensation and guilt is an artificial sensation. So let&rsquo;s not be
treating fear and guilt with such respect as though they are something.
They&rsquo;re artificial sensations. They do not mean anything in the
context of God and God&rsquo;s Allness. They have no meaning whatsoever.
And because God is All, they never have had any actual meaning.
Therefore, they are not anything actual to overcome or deal with. You
can&rsquo;t do anything to that which is an artificial sensation.

But you can shift your attention to Love. You can shift your attention
away from privacy and self-authority to your Father and rejoin with your
Father.  And in that rejoining, remember who you Are, and in That
experience, find that Love is the spontaneous feeling you experience
relative to everything.

And it&rsquo;s when you discover that everything is blessing you with
the Love that it is, so that it&rsquo;s an exchange infinitely speaking,
in which there is no conflict, in which there is no chaos, in which
there&rsquo;s no radioactive damage caused recently or in the past,
where there is no physical injury or disease either currently or left
over from the past, where the Kingdom of Heaven is redeemed from your
insistence upon it being something else&mdash;a physical world and
universe which began from a big bang &hellip; a physical explosion, a
physical movement of force inherently polarized from the get-go.

A Course In Miracles means something. It&rsquo;s true. It doesn&rsquo;t
really mean working miracles, because a miracle in that sort of
definition would have to mean that some sort of force&mdash;spiritual or
otherwise&mdash;would have to be applied to the material world and
universe you think exists and changes it by force, so that it stops
being destructive and starts being benign. Now that would be a miracle!

But no, A Course In Miracles is about shifting your attention from the
voice for fear and giving your attention to the Voice for truth, which
is the Holy Spirit&mdash;which is that which is nothing more than your
right Mind&mdash;and in that shift becoming unpolarized and unconflicted
yourself.

And in the falling away of the tension of this conflict that you have
manufactured for yourself, what you really Are&mdash;what all of
Creation really Is in its benign unified aspect&mdash;registers with you
and it looks like a miracle has happened, because infirmity, illness,
death are undone, damage is undone. The true nature of everything simply
registers with you once again &hellip; awesomely registers with you once
again. That seems miraculous but I promise you that the uncovering of
the divinity of everything, the uncovering of the divineness of
everything that has characterized everything forever, that occurring is
not a miracle, because force is not applied to make something that was
not something into something else that is something.

You&rsquo;re not going to be able to use Love to bless the island of
Japan. You&rsquo;re not going to be able to use Love to bless the area
around Chernobyl. You are not going to be able to use Love to bless a
cemetery so that all those who have died come forth. You cannot use Love
to undo an illusion. Love serves to open your eyes to what God has been
Being all along, in spite of your false definitions applied to
everything and the conflict it has created for you.

I know I am repeating myself over and over and over again, but I am
repeating a simple truth that it&rsquo;s almost impossible for you to
believe because it is so simple and because it flies in the face of your
experience.

Now the conditions in the world are distressing. Even the ones that seem
to be positively oriented seem to be occurring in the context of
conflict. And so even that which has excellence is strenuous. The
strenuousness of it, the apparent processes in time that it appears
everything will have to go through&mdash;whether it&rsquo;s the changing
of a mind of a people or whether it&rsquo;s the changing of the
radioactivity that should take tens of thousands of years to
dissipate&mdash;the fact is, that time needs to be wiped out of the
process, out of the picture, so that instantaneous healing can be
experienced.

&ldquo;Oh, gee, instantaneous healing! Well, it&rsquo;s going to be
hard, because of course, radioactive materials are matter aren&rsquo;t
they? And so they are going to have to operate according to the laws of
matter, aren&rsquo;t they?&rdquo;

Whew &hellip; No! No! No! No! No! No! Why? Because the only change that
needs to occur is you abandoning your commitment and addiction to
definitions that are inconsistent with Creation Itself. And which when
you abandon them, will allow Creation as It truly is to be experienced
by you as It truly is [snaps fingers] just like that, because of a
[snaps fingers again] willingness that wasn&rsquo;t argued against,
because a commitment was abandoned and there was a willingness to
embrace what seemed to be &ldquo;the impossible.&rdquo;

Now there is a need for this today! There is a need for this today! And
every single one of you have the groundwork, have the basics to
participate in it happening! And so I am pushing you, yes! And I am
inviting you, yes! I am pushing and pulling, I am doing everything I can
to inspire you to be radical and to consider the impossible, so that
there might be Ascension, so that there might be Awakening.

It&rsquo;s time! It&rsquo;s time for all of these artificial
experiences, all of these artificial sensations and all of these
artificial perceptions to simply give way to clarity&mdash;what you
might call a change of mind. Not that you have decided, &ldquo;I&rsquo;m
going to change from this to this,&rdquo; but where, in your
defenselessness, you suddenly find yourself seeing differently, you
suddenly find your perspective changed, you suddenly find fear absent,
you suddenly find Love present, you suddenly find safety to be an
absolute.

Now this is going to take some discipline. Again, I&rsquo;ve used a lot
of words. I&rsquo;ve expressed different ideas. But at the bottom line
we&rsquo;re talking about one thing: a shift from the voice for fear to
a Voice for truth. That takes some discipline.

When you want to gather information, which teacher are you going to go
to? If you go to the voice for fear you&rsquo;re going to find it
promoting conflict within you, exhaustion within you. You&rsquo;re going
to find yourself turning the negativity on yourself to find out what is
wrong with you that you&rsquo;re having such a negative experience.

I know &hellip; maybe you&rsquo;re just getting old. Maybe you&rsquo;re
developing Alzheimer&rsquo;s &hellip; maybe dementia is encroaching upon
you. Poor thing &hellip; Oh, yeah &hellip;

When you&rsquo;re indulging in that frame of reference, when
you&rsquo;re listening to the voice for fear, anything that causes you
to ultimately suffering and die will be justifiable. And you&rsquo;re
not likely to challenge it. You&rsquo;re likely to embrace it because
&hellip; well, you&rsquo;re so depressed that there&rsquo;s no hope for
any alternative, right?

Or you have the simple option to choose for the Voice for truth.

If fear is an artificial sensation, then when you turn to it,
you&rsquo;re turning to nothing! And you&rsquo;re investing your trust
and your faith in artificiality&mdash;nothing of substance, nothing with
a foundation!

So, all you have to say is, &ldquo;Well, this fear I&rsquo;m
experiencing is totally artificial and I&rsquo;m going to abandon
it.&rdquo; And then leave it! Give your attention to the Voice for
truth. Why? Because there really is a Voice for truth and there really
is something called truth. And when you invite it in, it reveals itself
to you. And in revealing itself to you, reveals You to you and reveals
your Father to you and reveals your holy relationship and your holy
identity and your inseparability from All That Is.

You know what? As I&rsquo;ve said before, those who seem to be in the
thick of the dynamics that are going on today, because they are in the
thick of the dynamics, find it difficult to witness for themselves.
You&rsquo;re not in the thick of it and so you can witness for them if
you choose for the Voice for truth. And if in choosing for it, you
don&rsquo;t abandon it by taking a peak at the television or getting the
latest update on your iPhone.

Don&rsquo;t go to the voice for fear, because it will have only one
effect. It will deprive you of Knowing the truth. It will deprive you of
your peace. If it deprives you of your peace, it deprives you of being
an agent for change on behalf of your Brother. And it absolutely keeps
you from experiencing the instantaneous correction of these illusions
and therefore, it keeps it from everyone else as well.

&ldquo;Oh-h, I can&rsquo;t change everybody else!&rdquo; No, you
can&rsquo;t, not by force, but by Love you can.

Don&rsquo;t try to change anyone else. Do what uncovers to you your
divinity and your experience of everyone else&rsquo;s divinity. Do that
religiously! It will have one very practical effect: Depression will not
bother you. Fear will be nowhere near you. Peace will consume you. And
that Peace will bless everyone and everything. That&rsquo;s your
function. That&rsquo;s your purpose and that&rsquo;s your fulfillment.
That&rsquo;s your job.

Stick to it! Persist! Anything that discourages you from that is simply
the voice for fear and you seem to be experiencing it because
you&rsquo;ve turned to that teacher. Hey, the fear you&rsquo;re
experiencing is an artificial sensation. Leave it behind. Abandon it!
Abandon it!

Be one of those who, we&rsquo;ll say, has come into the human experience
for the purpose of lifting all of mankind out of it and into the
Awakened state that it&rsquo;s His Birthright, Her Birthright, Your
Birthright to be experiencing.

You have the support of the Holy Spirit. You have my support. All of
Creation supports you in your remembering who you Are and blessing all
of mankind and everything by the revelation that will occur to you about
everyone and everything that reveals to you It&rsquo;s and Their
divinity in an awesome experience of joy.

Today&rsquo;s the day to do it! Today&rsquo;s the day it&rsquo;s
possible! Today is the day you deserve it! And there&rsquo;s absolutely
nothing actual inhibiting your having that experience today.

I love you, I love you, I love you, [looks at each one in the room] you,
you, you, you &hellip; everyone. Take hold of this opportunity.
Don&rsquo;t abandon it.

[^1]: Ancient Chinese Proverb

