---
title: Apr 9, 2011
ref: Discussion
---

There are some things I need to say tonight which Paul has a slight
inkling of, and it is making Paul uncomfortable. And the reason is, that
when one opens up to Guidance, when one says, &ldquo;Father, *Thy Will
not mine be done*,&rdquo; and yields to It, it means that because growth
is called for, because correction of false ideas is called for,
information will be provided that makes the one asking for help
uncomfortable, because it stretches his or her borders &hellip; moves
him or her out of their comfort zone &hellip; and it&rsquo;s essential.

Paul knows this, and that&rsquo;s why he&rsquo;s sitting here and
letting me speak, even though it makes him uncomfortable, because
it&rsquo;s going to require him to be in a way that he&rsquo;s not used
to&mdash;forthright, clear. I&rsquo;m not saying that Paul doesn&rsquo;t
like to be clear but he does like to be clear in indirect ways. Not
forthright, not *utterly* clear.

But what he doesn&rsquo;t realize and what a lot of you don&rsquo;t
realize is that clarity, forthrightly expressed, puts everyone at ease
because they know exactly where you&rsquo;re coming from or they know
exactly what is expected or they know exactly what the limitations or
boundaries of the activity that they&rsquo;re engaged in with you, are.
And so there&rsquo;s no confusion. That is better than the kind of
confusion that can come from oblique utterances of clarity. You see?

Now, yes &hellip; Paul is blocking. And so he&rsquo;s simply backing
off, doing the two-step, getting out of a pre-reaction &hellip; [long
pause] &hellip; well, I&rsquo;m going to approach it this way, perhaps
obliquely, but to get around Paul&rsquo;s resistance, a resistance that
he really does not want to activate.

We&rsquo;ve talked about the fact that you cannot witness for yourself.
And your Brother cannot witness for himself or your Sister for herself,
that it takes another to witness for a Brother. It takes one who
perseveres in discovering the truth, listening for the truth about a
Brother when that Brother is having difficulty experiencing it himself.
When his faith is too low, when his trust is shot, he calls for a
Brother who can see the truth about him and who is willing to share it.

So, you may use your Brother as a justification for doing the two-step.
You may use your Brother&rsquo;s need or what your Brother has shared as
justification for shutting up&mdash;becoming still&mdash;going within
and asking of the Father or the Holy Spirit, &ldquo;What is the truth
here? What is the truth here relative to my Brother? Because I want to
see and experience that, so that my experience becomes shared
spontaneously and blesses my Brother when he was unable to bless himself
all by himself.&rdquo; That&rsquo;s the way it&rsquo;s supposed to work.

You are your Brother&rsquo;s savior &hellip; *you are your
Brother&rsquo;s savior*. But you are only your Brother&rsquo;s savior by
virtue of using your Brother as the reason that you turn within to the
Holy Spirit or to the Father so that you might know the truth to
*reflect back* to your Brother. If you use your Brother as justification
for joining with your Brother where your Brother becomes the determiner
of your perceptions, then it&rsquo;s &ldquo;*the blind leading the blind
and both shall fall into the ditch*.&rdquo;[^1] It&rsquo;s that simple.

Now, I&rsquo;ve backed into this so that I can illustrate what Paul is
doing. The reason Paul is uncomfortable right now is that he cares more
about what you think &hellip; what you think &hellip; what you think
&hellip; what you think. He cares enough to let you be the
reason&mdash;many of the reasons&mdash;he listens to me. But then he
uses you to measure how well he&rsquo;s doing or to determine what his
best behavior ought to be in order to have a certain result. And that
certain result doesn&rsquo;t necessarily mean control over all of you,
but a result meaning his ability to feel his peace.

In other words, if everyone is happy with him, he can use that as
justification for relaxing and being at peace. You see? That&rsquo;s a
wrong use of a Brother.  That&rsquo;s letting the Brother cause
attention to be given to the Brother but not after the two-step has
occurred, and then gathering information about how to be and how to feel
from what&rsquo;s happening in this interaction which the Father has
been left out of.

Now, the only time any of you find Paul of value&mdash;truly of
value&mdash;is when he is listening to me and not listening to you, and
sharing what he hears when he&rsquo;s listening to me so that there is
an interaction, there is an involvement, but he&rsquo;s not relying upon
data from you to know what to say, he&rsquo;s bringing into the
interaction with all of you his joining with the Holy Spirit or me.

This provides an object lesson. This provides an example for everyone
from which everyone can glean the dynamics of listening for Guidance,
the dynamics of listening for the Father&rsquo;s Voice or for the Holy
Spirit. And the sharing of that action with all of you does constitute
witnessing for you because it helps you see what you can do, which you
didn&rsquo;t know you could do, which it never occurred to you to do, or
which you denied, denounced, when it came to your attention.

So Paul, in his listening, renders practical to everyone who&rsquo;s
listening, the value and the nature of Guidance.

Paul does a lot of thinking when he&rsquo;s uncomfortable, as do all of
you. In fact, being uncomfortable is generally what spurs thinking and
cancels out listening&mdash;avoiding the one thing out of which
transformation can occur, out of which resolution can come.

Now I&rsquo;m speaking to all of you but I&rsquo;m certainly also
speaking to Paul. And you know what? As a result of what&rsquo;s
happening at this very moment, you all can have an understanding that
when you&rsquo;re talking with your Guide, your Guide might not speak
any highfalutin &ldquo;spiritual talk&rdquo; but very down to earth
practical loving relationship. In fact, it&rsquo;s that which
constitutes the most grounding aspect of the act of listening and
hearing.

Now, I think he&rsquo;s going to let me say the things that he&rsquo;s
afraid no one will like. And once again, for him, I will come in the
back door:

If you were going to make a cake from scratch&mdash;an almond butter
cake&mdash;you would need certain ingredients. Let&rsquo;s say your
husband says, &ldquo;Hey, I&rsquo;d love to have one of your almond
butter cakes!&rdquo; And you say, &ldquo;Okay, great! I&rsquo;ll make
one.&rdquo; And you go to the cupboard and you have the flour and you
have the sugar or you have the water or the milk, you have most of the
ingredients but you don&rsquo;t have any almond extract, and you
don&rsquo;t have a couple of other ingredients. And so you say,
&ldquo;Aw, honey, I need an almond extract and I need this and I need
that in order to be able to make it.&rdquo;

And your husband says, &ldquo;Well, what&rsquo;s wrong? You know,
it&rsquo;s your job to take care of the kitchen. I go out all day and
work and do the things that bring in the bread and the butter&mdash;you
know, the money for you to get the ingredients.  It&rsquo;s a simple
thing for you to keep the kitchen stocked.&rdquo; You see? And suddenly
a clear expression of need has been turned into an issue of competency
or actually incompetency.

And Paul isn&rsquo;t the only one who has those kinds of
reactions&mdash;all of you do.  And if you engage with those reactions
and they begin to govern you, you will never get the almond extract. You
will never just go out yourself and say, &ldquo;Honey, I&rsquo;ll run
down to the store and get it. I&rsquo;ll be right back &hellip;&rdquo;
You know, you&rsquo;ll have your cake in an hour and a half instead of
forty-five minutes.

No. Oh dear, maybe some tears &hellip; maybe sitting down &hellip;
&ldquo;My husband doesn&rsquo;t appreciate me &hellip;&rdquo; and so on.
Or, you know, &ldquo;I&rsquo;m really not a very good wife&rdquo; and
bullshit like that &hellip; . thinking! Stating needs is a way of being
clear yourself.

For instance, if you&rsquo;re going to say a prayer because you have
needs, you don&rsquo;t have to sit down and say, &ldquo;Father, I know
I&rsquo;m not worthy of Your attention.  But you know what? I really do
need this. I really do need that. It doesn&rsquo;t have to be brand new.
It doesn&rsquo;t have to be from the store. It could be from a garage
sale. But I need this.&rdquo; You see? Well, there&rsquo;s no necessity
of going through this process of unworthiness.

All you have to say is, &ldquo;Father, I need a garden hose that
works,&rdquo; and leave it! That&rsquo;s a prayer! No bullshit attached
to it. No fuzziness! No unworthiness! No ego shit, right? Just simple,
&ldquo;Father, I need a working garden hose &hellip;&rdquo; direct,
clear.

Now, the showing up &hellip; the appearing of the garden hose can
happen. It doesn&rsquo;t have to wait for all of the tears and the
feeling of unworthiness to pass before the attention can be brought to
the need again.

So the simple fact is that there are needs &hellip; legitimate,
reasonable needs which need attention, and which Paul has been reluctant
to share with everyone, because there&rsquo;s this conditioning which
many of you have, that if you&rsquo;re on your spiritual path you
shouldn&rsquo;t have needs. You see? And you shouldn&rsquo;t have to
convey to anyone else a state of need that you&rsquo;re in.

Well, taint so! taint so! Express your needs so your Brother can witness
for you to your abundance, to your worthiness of abundance, whether that
one actually shares abundance or not in terms of dollars or cents or a
garden hose.

It&rsquo;s ego &hellip; ego &hellip; ego &hellip; that wants to cover up
need. I&rsquo;ve said before, *that need is the threshold of the
fulfillment of the need*. The apparent lack is the point of breakthrough
for that which is in the process of coming forth. It&rsquo;s simple. And
if you deny the need or choose not to look at it, you will not bring
your attention where the emergence is primed to happen.

I am re-teaching Paul about this, as well as teaching all of you about
this, so that you bring this practicality and clarity into your
experience where it&rsquo;s needed.

Now as most of you know, a year ago&mdash;a little over a year
ago&mdash;I told Paul and Susan that it was time for the Foundation to
move from the residence it was in into a new residence. And last August
a new residence was found and purchased because of the incredibly
wonderful support of everyone who actively participates in the work that
we&rsquo;re doing. It was incredible.

 Now, it has taken a number of months from August until now to slowly
 get things moved into the new residence. And it&rsquo;s still not
 completed. And the reason is, that there has been a need for more
 income than has been coming in.

Paul has been unreasonably patient. I mean by that, that he has not
jumped at the chance to let everyone know what the need is. And as a
result there has been a certain stalemate that has occurred, a certain
lack of activity and forward movement. It&rsquo;s not appropriate for
that &ldquo;lack of movement&rdquo; to be occurring.

Now, Paul has slipped into concern about what everyone might be thinking
about what I&rsquo;m saying&mdash;what everyone might be thinking about
*him* as a result of what I&rsquo;m saying &hellip; forgetting that
I&rsquo;m the one that&rsquo;s saying it and that it&rsquo;s not
Paul&rsquo;s idea. And that&rsquo;s why the communication is bogging
down.

Just a moment &hellip;

I think we can be very forthright here. Here are the practical needs:
The Foundation presently owns two houses. Both of those houses are
having to be maintained: electricity, water and so on&mdash;yards taken
care of, etc. And on the 31st of this month property taxes will become
due on both properties, amounting to approximately six thousand dollars.

I am mentioning the amount so that there&rsquo;s a clarity about the
kind of need there is&mdash;it&rsquo;s not a need of $250 or some other
amount. Paul does not understand that stating that clearly helps
everyone know how to be in practical ways with the need that I&rsquo;ve
just expressed. And that those who can find no way to support will know
they cannot support. And those who can or those who can even do it with
great ease will be aware that there is a need that they can participate
in.

It&rsquo;s not up to Paul to decide for anyone else what they can do or
what they ought to do. And most of all anyone doing it, it&rsquo;s not
about Paul when they do it.

Now in addition to property taxes falling due on the 31st of April, the
other house needs to be sold. Spring is busting out. This is the time
that people start house-hunting. The house needs to be prepared for
sale: cleaned up, yards neatened up, new carpeting put in, in this case
&hellip; various &hellip; you know, fixer-upper sort of things so that
the house will be maximally prepared for sale. It needs to be sold
because maintaining two houses &hellip; that serves no purpose.

And so, there are expenses that will be incurred. All of these things
are the practical, down to earth aspects of moving from one place to
another&mdash;buying a new one, selling the old one. It&rsquo;s just
part of the program, it&rsquo;s part of the way it works.

Paul&rsquo;s ego gets into the picture and says, &ldquo;Why would anyone
do this for me?&rdquo; And his ego is forgetting that none of this has
anything to do with doing anything for Paul. It has to do with a
Movement which Paul is involved in, that he is participating in with me.
And the simple fact is, that in order for this work to be done, in order
to have what it takes to broadcast a program, to stream things over the
Internet and so on, requires a place to do it from&mdash;a residence, a
building of some sort that has electricity and phone and so on.

Now the simple fact is (and with this Paul can agree) the work that
we&rsquo;re doing by means of our broadcasts, by means of our website
and so on, the work that we are doing is *not insignificant*, is
*utterly meaningful*&mdash;I am sharing things that no one else is
sharing *yet*, that very practically lead to Awakening and the end of
illusions.

Providing the means for this work to be done is extremely worthwhile.
Because it is so meaningful, Paul has no trouble justifying saying these
things, period.

It is reasonable for support in any form that allows this work to
continue to come forth, to be extended and made available. The work and
the way it is handled is utterly intelligent. It is intelligence in
expression.

Now, I suppose there are many who could say, &ldquo;Well, wow, if Jesus
is asking for contributions, I had better contribute.&rdquo; No. If
making contributions is an intelligent use of your ability to give
because it promotes something that is of extreme value, then
that&rsquo;s the reason to make a contribution. It doesn&rsquo;t matter
whose asking for it.

Now we will keep everyone updated via our web site regarding the flow of
contributions and the needs that are being met because you deserve that
clarity&mdash;not because Paul wants to know, or his ego wants to know
anything that would give him peace of mind from a wrong source. Clarity
in the sharing will let everyone know whether they want to, can or will
continue to support as this out of the ordinary transition occurs. You
see? This is not an everyday occurrence of moving from one location to
another to carry on the work. It will be over. It will be over shortly.
But in the process, support will be needed so that the completion can
occur.

I know that each one of you is able to hear what I&rsquo;m saying
clearly and simply.  And I&rsquo;m not going to try to manipulate you in
any way. The need has been clearly shared and the update of need and
needs met will be provided on the web site.

And so, I&rsquo;ll leave it clean and finish here and say to everyone of
you, I love you.

[^1]: Mathew 15:14

