---
title: Apr 16, 2011
ref: T17.1 Fantasy and Distorted Perception
alink: "/acim/text/17/chap1701/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

I&rsquo;ve been saying some things for quite awhile, and especially in
the last few weeks, that are causing some distress for long-time
students of the *Course*, because I&rsquo;ve really been homing in on
the fact that there&rsquo;s only one thing confronting
you&mdash;there&rsquo;s only one thing ever in your face&mdash;and that
is the Kingdom of Heaven &hellip; *that is Reality*.

There simply is nothing else existent for you to experience.

And so, I&rsquo;m unequivocal on this point: You are either seeing
Reality clearly or you are seeing Reality through a glass darkly. You
are either seeing Creation truly, or you are seeing
Creation&mdash;God&rsquo;s Creation, the only Creation there
is&mdash;through misperceptions.

You are never seeing an alternative to Reality or Creation.

There simply is no place for unreality to arise from because there is no
presence other than God and therefore no place&mdash;no
omnipresence&mdash;out of which unreality could arise.

If you use the *Course* to justify the idea that everything that you see
and call Creation is an illusion, is to behave in a way that flies right
in the face of God&mdash;right in the face of truth&mdash;it contradicts
Being.

I talk about looking at everything with curiosity to see the more of
what God is Being there, than what you are seeing. And I do this on
purpose because if you don&rsquo;t look right where you are&mdash;which
is the only place you&rsquo;re able to give your attention to at the
moment&mdash;if you don&rsquo;t give your attention to what&rsquo;s in
your face with curiosity, you will effectively imprison yourself in your
present perception. You will deny yourself the experience of God. You
will block from your experience&mdash;from your
consciousness&mdash;Reality Itself. And that is not your Birthright and
I will forever continue to say,

> &ldquo;*Look at anything and everything that you can with the
> curiosity to see the more of what God is Being right there than
> you&rsquo;re presently seeing.*&rdquo;

This is essential, unless you want to ride out the dream &hellip; you
know, sort of go along with the dream. But if that&rsquo;s what you
want, why would you read the *Course*?

This chapter is called, &ldquo;Forgiveness and Healing.&rdquo; Well, why
use the word, healing? Are we going to get so highfalutin and umm
&hellip; unrealistic in our spirituality that healing is going to begin
to mean something different from what everyone knows healing is, what
everyone feels the need for? Is healing going to be a clarification in
your mind that has nothing to do with your world or your body?

No! Stay grounded! The purpose of this *Course* is not to change the
meaning of words so significantly that they bear little relevance to
your daily life.  They are supposed to make a difference in your daily
life. How? &hellip; by giving you airy-fairy ideas to dream in or dream
about without ever correcting a problem? If so, then let&rsquo;s go
through the *Course* and remove the word &ldquo;correction&rdquo;
wherever it occurs.

Correction is called for. Healing is expected. And healing is not going
to be the insane experience of &ldquo;peace and well-being&rdquo; when
there is injury or illness present. That is not spirituality. That is
insanity!

Let&rsquo;s be clear. If you don&rsquo;t know the difference between
sanity and insanity you are lost! And someone has to tell you the
difference. I&rsquo;m telling you the difference.

Now, there are two statements&mdash;not in the *Course*, but absolutely
true&mdash;which I want to share with you.  The first is this: All is
Mind (with a capital &lsquo;M&rsquo;). All is Mind &hellip; from the
rolling of worlds in the most subtle ether, to a potato patch.[^1]  And
the other is this: Mind&mdash;again with a capital &lsquo;M&rsquo; (and
not just because it&rsquo;s at the beginning of a sentence) but meaning
God&mdash;Mind maintains all identities from a blade of grass to a star
as distinct and eternal.[^2]

This is the truth. And it calls for an appreciation of everything you
see in your world that you probably haven&rsquo;t brought to it before.
And it is only in bringing that kind of appreciation to everything in
your world which allows you to have your attention right where Reality
is present for you to re-discover it.

Your willingness to look at the &ldquo;unlovely thing&rdquo; is
forgiveness. And when you&rsquo;re willing to look at an unlovely thing
for a purpose &hellip; to see the more of what God is being there, than
the absence of God that you&rsquo;re seeing there, healing is the
result. It&rsquo;s that simple. It&rsquo;s that practical.

And not anyone should be laboring under any other belief that would
cause them to just sit and tolerate the intolerable in the name of *A
Course In Miracles* or the wonderful teaching it presents.

This section is called:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Fantasy and Distorted Perception [^3]

When you maintain that there must be order of difficulty in miracles,
all you mean is that there are some things you would withhold from
truth. You believe that truth cannot deal with them only because you
would KEEP them from truth. 
</div>

Well, I know &hellip; you want me to tell you something practical here?
Okay.  For the last few weeks we&rsquo;ve talked about the situation in
Japan. We&rsquo;ve talked about radioactive energy&mdash;radioactive
matter. And we&rsquo;ve talked about the ability, the capacity you have
to see that ultimately negative aspect of energy transformed into a
totally benign presence of energy.

But it&rsquo;s very difficult. You all, as a general thing, believe that
radioactive isotopes are dangerous to your well-being, are dangerous to
your life.

Now, when you maintain that there must be order of difficulty in
miracles, when you say, &ldquo;That&rsquo;s impossible because
radioactive isotopes are truly damaging, they can kill me if I&rsquo;m
exposed to too much!&rdquo; And of course if you say that about
yourself, what are you thinking about the individuals who are fifty
miles away from the energy plant&mdash;the atomic energy plant?
You&rsquo;re condemning yourself and you&rsquo;re condemning them.

You&rsquo;re certainly not practicing the holy instant, where you
shut-up, you become still and in the silence you say, &ldquo;Father,
what is the truth here?&rdquo; You see?  A decision is made not to
withhold that from the truth.

Listen again:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you maintain that there must be order of
difficulty in miracles, all you mean is that there are some things you
would withhold from truth. 
</div>

You see? &ldquo;Well, I can&rsquo;t bring myself to present this to the
truth because it&rsquo;s not correctable. It truly is dangerous. And it
will be dangerous, some of it for so long that nobody in this lifetime
will be able to enjoy being on that land and blah…blah…blah!&rdquo;
Right? You&rsquo;re committed to withhold it from truth because you are
so damned confident about what substance is that you can&rsquo;t bring
yourself to believe that&hellip; oh, there might be a possible miracle!

But that&rsquo;s not what the *Course* is about. Let&rsquo;s be clear
about that.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You believe the truth cannot deal with them &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; radioactive isotopes in conjunction with your flesh, your body
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; only because you would KEEP them from
truth. Very simply, your lack of faith in the power that heals all pain
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what do those words mean &hellip; &ldquo;heals all pain?&rdquo;
Oh, is it psychological pain? Is it an inner grievance that has nothing
to do with flesh that is torn, or a boil that&rsquo;s about to pop? It
has nothing to do with physical pain?

You better believe it does have to do with it. Else, throw the book away
and be a mortal &hellip; and stop complaining about it! And stop
pretending to have a vision larger than the human condition&mdash;the
human dream.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Very simply, your lack of faith in the power
that heals all pain arises from your wish to retain some aspects of
reality for fantasy. 
</div>

In other words, you&rsquo;re gonna keep this little part of the Kingdom
of Heaven, called &ldquo;radioactive isotopes&rdquo; and you&rsquo;re
going to invest them in fantasy.  You&rsquo;re going to say, &ldquo;This
part of the Kingdom of Heaven&rdquo;&mdash;which in actuality
can&rsquo;t be polarized at all, or dangerous&mdash;&ldquo;this little
bit of the Kingdom of Heaven I&rsquo;m going to reserve for fantasy, and
the fantasy I&rsquo;m going to apply to it is that it is radioactive, it
is polarized energy that is highly dangerous to the human condition.
This is the definition I&rsquo;m going to hold it to.&rdquo; You see?

You&rsquo;re going &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; to retain some aspects of reality for fantasy. 
</div>

Now, here&rsquo;s the interesting thing. This section is called,

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Fantasy and Distorted Perception
</div>

&hellip; as though they&rsquo;re two different things. And they are.
Fantasy is something you can entertain all by yourself. You can
fantasize to your heart&rsquo;s delight. But *you cannot have a
distorted perception all by yourself*.  A distorted perception comes
from your bringing your fantasy to another Brother or Sister who is
willing to share that fantasy with you. You see?

And the moment the two of you make commitment to that fantasy and deny
the Father as your Source, and deny all of Creation as His, and you
usurp it for your purposes, you become bound to a mutual insanity that
is constituted of distorted perception in which the benign substance of
Spirit that is the Substance of all Creation which is Love embodied,
that *that* is something else entirely, completely opposed to what it
truly Is.

Wow! Whether you believe it or not this is what has happened and this is
what binds you to a human existence that exhibits none of the
characteristics of what a holy Son or Daughter of God would be
experiencing. But of course, you&rsquo;ve forgotten who you Are, as
we&rsquo;ve discussed. And you&rsquo;re committed to the fantasy that
you have bound Creation to, or bound a small portion of Creation to.

Now you know, it really doesn&rsquo;t make a lot of difference whether
you talk about radioactive isotopes or cancer cells, they both seem to
have the same capacity to kill you.  They both seem to have the same
intent to kill you.

Is one worse than the other? Well, not really.

Now, it&rsquo;s time to begin to have a different experience of
Substance. It&rsquo;s time to have a different experience of the
Substance of everything in this Universe.  It&rsquo;s time for you to
dare to bring your fantasy to truth instead of bringing truth to
fantasy. And that&rsquo;s what this is all about.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Very simply, your lack of faith in the power
that heals all pain arises from your wish to retain some aspects of
reality for fantasy. If you but realized what this must do to your
appreciation of the whole! 
</div>

Well, it annihilates it. It makes it impossible for you to have an
appreciation of the whole, because you have radioactive isotopes and you
have cancer cells and any number of other killing things that cause you
to lose your peace.

And you know what? If you&rsquo;ve lost your peace, then you&rsquo;re in
fear. And when you&rsquo;re in fear, it becomes almost impossible to be
willing to look at the thing that is causing your fear and choose to
bring it to truth. It becomes impossible for you to dare to embrace it
in any way, even though you are embracing it to get past the apparently
polarized aspects that it is presenting as a primarily negative aspect
that is threatening you.

*Why* do you think you must love your enemies? Because your enemies are
the Sons and Daughters of God, or aspects of Creation which you are
misperceiving and which your misperceptions are causing you to be
defensive against.

You&rsquo;re never going to be able to discover the more of what God is
Being in your enemy if you are unwilling to bring your attention to your
enemy with the intent not to be sidetracked by his or her presentation,
so that you might move right through it with your intent to see the
Presence of God, so that God presents Himself to you as your conscious
experience and causes you to spontaneously feel and express the joy of
the recognition of the Son of God, your Brother, who is so worthy of
your love and who in the midst of your recognition of his divinity,
reveals to you that you are as divine and uncovers You to you so that
you become joined in that awe.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What you reserve unto yourself, you TAKE AWAY
from Him Who would release you. 
</div>

Well, Who&rsquo;s the Him that would release you? It&rsquo;s the Holy
Spirit&mdash;that which is nothing more than your right Mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What you reserve unto yourself, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you see? &hellip; &ldquo;Oh, this little part of the Kingdom
Heaven, I&rsquo;m going to call it radioactive isotopes. And I&rsquo;m
going to say that it has polarized qualities that are dangerous to
anything it comes near &hellip;&rdquo;

You reserve that to yourself. And you take it &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; AWAY from Him &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; Who would release you. 
</div>

You take it away from your right Mind which would release you from your,
shall I say, wrong-mindedness&mdash;your ignorance.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Unless you give it back, it is inevitable that
your perspective on reality be warped and &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what? Here&rsquo;s that word &ldquo;correction&rdquo; &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; uncorrected.

Unless you give it back, it is inevitable that your
perspective on reality be warped and uncorrected. 
</div>

So why does it say that? It says it because correction is called for.
That&rsquo;s good news.  But you&rsquo;re not going to see the
correction as an experience as long as you say, &ldquo;Well,
that&rsquo;s a material world and it&rsquo;s illusion and it&rsquo;s
going to disappear.&rdquo; That&rsquo;s a curse.

There&rsquo;s no forgiveness in that. And without forgiveness, without a
willingness to say, &ldquo;Wait a minute, if there&rsquo;s something
going on there and there&rsquo;s really no other power than God, then
there&rsquo;s nothing else to be presenting something there for me to
perceive or misperceive, except God. And therefore what&rsquo;s there
has to be essentially Real and benign &hellip; undivided, unpolarized,
incapable of sin, sickness, death &hellip; incapable of decay. Therefore
it would behoove me, and I&rsquo;m willing to look at it with real
curiosity to see the divinity that is there. And I&rsquo;m going to
persist in that until I have the experience.&rdquo;

Now if that&rsquo;s not what *A Course In Miracles* is about, put down
the book! Stop reading it! And if you didn&rsquo;t think that was what
the *Course* was about, look at it again with fresh eyes.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As long as you would have it so, so long will
the illusion of order of difficulty in miracles remain with you. For you
have ESTABLISHED this order in reality by giving some of it to one
teacher, and some to another. And so you learn to deal with part of
truth in one way, and in another way the other part. 
</div>

You see? So you use truth as something that you take illusion to for
healing, but another part of truth you use to take to illusion to have
illusion determine what truth is. You see?

You&rsquo;re still dealing with truth and you&rsquo;re still dealing
with substance.  You&rsquo;re still dealing with Reality&mdash;the only
thing there is, truth and substance that is Spirit. But you can misuse
truth and you can call Spirit matter&mdash;having none of the
characteristics of Reality or its Source, God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To fragment truth is to destroy it by rendering
it meaningless. 
</div>

You see? You can&rsquo;t use truth as that which you take illusion to
for correction and then use truth as that which you bring to illusion to
have illusion determine what truth is.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To fragment truth &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that way &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is to destroy it by rendering it
meaningless. Orders of reality is a perspective without understanding, a
frame of reference for reality to which it cannot really BE compared at
all. 
</div>

Are you beginning to see here?

The singularity of Being &hellip; the singularity of existence &hellip;
the unpolarized nature of Being, of existence. This is the truth that
you need to be bringing every aspect of your mentality to, so that your
mentality might *be measured against truth and inevitably enlarged*,
inevitably made infinite, to inevitably be corrected so that your sanity
returns.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Think you that you can bring truth to fantasy,
and learn what truth means from the perspective of illusions? 
</div>

No. And that&rsquo;s why when something apparently disastrous or very
threatening to your current ignorant mindset occurs, you tend to take
your current mindset as the established order, as the ultimate
understanding of Reality. And so, although there is an event happening,
it becomes modified by your current determined mindset. And you become
frightened to death.

And that&rsquo;s not what the *Course* teaches. And that&rsquo;s not the
appropriate response. Because you are the holy Sons and Daughters of God
and nothing less, you never have been. And what you&rsquo;re frightened
of is a misperception of the Kingdom of Heaven that couldn&rsquo;t harm
you in any way. And yes, that means that at the moment you are
experiencing insanity. But you know what? Insanity is corrected by
intelligence recognized &hellip; insanity is corrected by intelligence
recognized.

And so, I&rsquo;m expressing intelligence. I&rsquo;m presenting
intelligence so that you might recognize it and therefore abandon your
commitment to your ignorance and dare to, shall I say, climb out of the
crab barrel.

Well you know what? One of the things that you tend to keep from truth
is the idea that there&rsquo;s an outside to the crab barrel
&hellip; you know &hellip; you tell somebody, &ldquo;Hey, I&rsquo;m
working on climbing out of the crab barrel.&rdquo;

And the other person says, &ldquo;Huh, you fool! There&rsquo;s no
outside to the crab barrel. There&rsquo;s not even a crab barrel.
It&rsquo;s just life. And you are just going to have to tolerate it. And
you&rsquo;re just going to suffer through it until your last day. You
see? Don&rsquo;t be foolish.&rdquo; You see?

So, Reality has been brought to fantasy and fantasy has been allowed to
determine what Reality is and as a result you deny yourself the
possibility of experiencing a miracle because you won&rsquo;t think
outside the box&mdash;you won&rsquo;t let your mind move outside the
box.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Think you that you can bring truth to fantasy,
and learn what truth means &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; really means &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; from the perspective of illusions?
Truth HAS no meaning in illusion. The frame of reference for its meaning
must be ITSELF. 
</div>

In other words, the frame of reference for truth&rsquo;s meaning must be
truth itself. Oh, but that&rsquo;s outside the crab barrel, isn&rsquo;t
it! Truth isn&rsquo;t in the crab barrel. It&rsquo;s not in the
illusion. It&rsquo;s not in the orphanage. It&rsquo;s outside.

Well, fortunately you know truth is. You know there is truth, whether
you Know what truth is or not. You have deeply imbedded in you an
undeniable awareness that there is such a thing as truth &hellip; thank
God!

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you try to bring truth to illusions, you
are trying to make illusions REAL, and keep them by JUSTIFYING your
belief in them. 
</div>

You see? You want to bring truth to verify the illusion so that you
might keep the illusion. You want to bring truth to your endeavor to be
an independent agent&mdash;having no Source&mdash;thus being totally
independent and proud of it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
But to give illusions to truth &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; to reverse it &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is to enable truth to teach that the
ILLUSIONS are unreal, and thus enable you to escape from them &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; uh, actually get outside the crab barrel.

Listen to this:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Reserve not one idea aside from truth, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; don&rsquo;t keep any private idea. &ldquo;Well, I hear that
radioactive isotopes can be benign. And I could believe that maybe if
there were too many around me, I might just be able to come out of it
unscathed. But damn it, don&rsquo;t test me on it!&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Reserve not one idea aside from truth, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; apart from truth &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; or you establish orders of reality
which must imprison you. There IS no order in reality because EVERYTHING
there is true. 
</div>

&ldquo;Well, everything there is true. Where? Where is there?&rdquo;
It&rsquo;s here! If it isn&rsquo;t here, the book means nothing. If it
isn&rsquo;t here, the words mean nothing, unless in the sweet by-and-by
after you die. Well, if that&rsquo;s when it&rsquo;s going to be true,
put the book away and enjoy your mortality. Engage in all the sin that
you want &hellip; you know? Live this life to the fullest, on the raw
side &hellip; you know? Nothing you can do about it except maybe enjoy
it to the hilt because of course, there&rsquo;s no answer until after
you die.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There IS no order in reality because EVERYTHING
there is true. 
</div>

And there is here. And so, your task, your *pleasure* will be to be
willing to look at everything with fresh eyes. I&rsquo;ve said, with
innocent eyes, with a capacity to see beyond what you&rsquo;re
conditioned to see&mdash;a capacity that&rsquo;s already there. Because
no matter how much you&rsquo;ve covered it over, you are the Son and the
Daughter of God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Be willing, then, to give all you have held
outside the truth to Him Who KNOWS the truth, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit&mdash;that which is nothing more than your
right Mind&mdash; &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and in Whom all is brought to truth. Be
not concerned with anything except your WILLINGNESS to have this be
accomplished. 
</div>

There it is:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Be not concerned with anything &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; not the fearsomeness of radio isotopes or cancer or anything
else.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Be not concerned with anything except your
WILLINGNESS to have this be accomplished. 
</div>

Here&rsquo;s the insulting part though:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
HE will accomplish it; NOT you. 
</div>

And that&rsquo;s the beauty of it. And that&rsquo;s the love of it. And
that&rsquo;s the infinite invulnerability of you, in it.

You know, I mentioned that sometime in the past, I said, there are two
things: *Wish to see the evidence of Love*, no matter what&rsquo;s
presenting itself. And wish to be the presence of Love. Wish to see the
evidence of Love and wish to be the evidence of Love. And it&rsquo;s
important. Which one comes first? There is an order to it.

Does the wish to be the evidence of Love come first or the wish to see
the evidence of Love? I will tell you: It&rsquo;s the wish to see the
evidence of Love.  The first part of it, the first step of it is,
selflessness, gifting your Brother instead of yourself.

When you wish to see the evidence of Love in your Brother or in anything
you are looking at, you are opening yourself up to the influx of divine
clarity.  And when that divine clarity dawns on you, infills you, it
inspires you and you end up involuntarily being the evidence of Love.
And I mean by that, that your behavior isn&rsquo;t designed by you to
have any particular effect because your behavior is *beyond your will*.
Joy that exudes from you spontaneously is the evidence of Love that
blesses everyone it falls upon, especially the one whom you decided not
to be the evidence of Love to first&mdash;the one who seemed to be
calling for Love.

&ldquo;Oh, yeah, I&rsquo;m going to be the evidence to Love for my
Brother here. He really needs it and I really have it to give it to him.
You know, I&rsquo;ve been studying for years, I know the *Course* inside
and out. And I&rsquo;m going to be the evidence of Love &hellip;&rdquo;

Well, bullshit! You&rsquo;ve missed the point! You can&rsquo;t be the
evidence of Love that way. You can&rsquo;t start from yourself and your
past. You have to start from the innocence of the moment you are in, in
which you&rsquo;re undefended against the Father&rsquo;s Perspective,
the Father&rsquo;s Will, which is truly yours. But when the
Father&rsquo;s Will dawns upon you, you behave in totally unexpected
ways because you&rsquo;re not in charge of your behavior any longer.

And it&rsquo;s a wonderful event that you are joyed in and everyone else
is joyed in.  And that&rsquo;s the way it works.

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Be willing, then, to give all you have held
outside the truth to Him Who KNOWS the truth, and in Whom all is brought
to truth. Be not concerned with anything except your WILLINGNESS to have
this be accomplished. HE will accomplish it; NOT you. But forget not
this: When you become disturbed and lose your peace of mind because
ANOTHER is attempting to solve his problems through fantasy, you are
refusing to forgive YOURSELF for just this same attempt. 
</div>

Well, what does that mean? It means that when you find yourself
disturbed and losing your peace because another is attempting to solve
his problems through fantasy, you have decided not to take this
presentation and hand it over to truth for truth to correct. You would
rather have held it yourself for your purpose. Your purpose being, that
you are going to have a little fit of anger and get the most out of it
that you can, because that&rsquo;s more important to you.  That&rsquo;s
a self-assertion, isn&rsquo;t it? That lets you know that you&rsquo;re
real, that you really exist.

Expressions of anger always do that. And that&rsquo;s the only thing
they ever do.  They help put you back in charge in your own mind,
because they make you the most important thing in your mind. And that
makes you feel strengthened and more present, even though you&rsquo;ve
stepped out of Reality entirely and are spinning around in this little
space of craziness, unconnected with anything Real and incapable of
being the evidence of Love. Why? Because you said, &ldquo;No, I do not
wish to see the evidence of Love.&rdquo; There it is!

Again:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you become disturbed and lose your peace of
mind because ANOTHER is attempting to solve his problems through
fantasy, you are refusing to forgive YOURSELF for just this same
attempt. And you are holding BOTH of you away from truth and from
salvation. 
</div>

You see? You keep it all spinning around in this little bit of
craziness.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you are holding BOTH of you away from
truth and from salvation. But &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the word &ldquo;but&rdquo; isn&rsquo;t in here &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
But as you forgive him, you restore to truth
what was denied by BOTH of you. And you will see forgiveness where you
have GIVEN it. 
</div>

Now, you tell me, what&rsquo;s the difference between looking at your
Brother and forgiving your Brother and having truth restored to both of
you? What&rsquo;s the difference between that and looking at a location
in Japan, which is overloaded with radioactivity and radioisotopes that
are dangerous, and forgiving that and seeing correction occur, seeing
truth restored? What is the difference? What is the difference between
looking at what you call matter and bringing it to truth, so that truth
might reveal to you that it is actually Substance, even though
you&rsquo;re calling it matter and that Substance in its Reality, in its
only-ness is Spirit&mdash;the Substance of God.

What&rsquo;s the difference? And in what way is what I&rsquo;m talking
about denying what the *Course* is saying, by saying, look at matter
with the curiosity to see it begin to behave like Spirit. There is no
difference. And as long as anyone maintains that there is a difference
the correcting principle of the *Course* will not function for you,
because you are denying the fundamental principle that is saying one
thing: God is All &hellip; is All &hellip; is All &hellip; is All
&hellip; is All there is in the radioactive isotope &hellip; is All
there is in the splinter of wood that&rsquo;s caught in your finger
&hellip; is All that there is to my finger.

Mind maintains all Ideas&mdash;from a blade of grass to a star&mdash;as
distinct and eternal. The moment you glimpse the fact that the *Course*
is teaching exactly that, we will all see transformations occurring that
everyone deserves to be experiencing and the *Course* will have
fulfilled its purpose.

You don&rsquo;t live in a frightening world, you live (some of you at
the moment) in a frightening way of looking at the world&mdash;an
isolated independent way, isolated from the Father, but joined with
Brothers and Sisters in the same mutual agreement &hellip; a
misperception.

And I&rsquo;m glad to share this news over and over and over until the
goodness of the news begins to register with you and you begin to
embrace the *Course* in an entirely new way and therefore, your world as
well.

I love you all, and I look forward to being with you next week.

[^1]: Mary Baker Eddy, Miscellaneous Writings, pg.30
[^2]: Mary Baker Eddy, Science and Health, pg.70
[^3]: T17.1 Fantasy and Distorted Perception

