---
title: Apr 23, 2011
ref: "T17.2 The Forgiven World"
alink: "/acim/text/17/chap1702/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

Well, we&rsquo;re reading from a Chapter entitled, &ldquo;Forgiveness
and Healing.&rdquo; And we&rsquo;ve been talking for a few weeks about
what you might call radical healing, haven&rsquo;t we?&mdash;the
changing of apparently dangerous elements into benign but still
functioning elements.

The healing of damage, whether from injury or from germs or from
radioactive isotopes&mdash;radioactivity&mdash;whether it&rsquo;s the
changing of water which has become impure, we&rsquo;ve talked about the
expectation of correction of illusions, not as a pleasant dreamy idea,
but as an actual measurable fact.

It&rsquo;s very appropriate to be talking about these things at this
time, being Easter. After all, if you have tissue that has been damaged
that is healed, isn&rsquo;t that resurrection? If something is returned
to its natural normal perfect state when it had before been imperfect,
is that return to excellence not resurrection? It is.

Forgiveness and Healing, they&rsquo;re inseparable really. Get it?
I&rsquo;m not blasting you with it. I&rsquo;m not making it sound great
and important. But it is simply profound. When there is healing, when
something abnormal has been returned to its state of normalcy,
resurrection has occurred. And always, when that happens, it happens as
the result of a simple act: Forgiveness.

The simple act of forgiveness is accomplished by &hellip; what? The
two-step that we&rsquo;ve been taking about&mdash;that point at which no
matter what is going on, no matter what is confronting you, you stop,
you silence your thinking mind. And in the silence, you reach out beyond
your thinking mind to the Father, to the Holy Spirit to enquire,
&ldquo;What is the truth here?&rdquo;

Now, the simple fact is that the willingness to know what is true in
spite of what is confronting you, in spite of what you have been
conditioned to believe was happening in which you are projecting on the
event, you want to know the truth from a Source that Knows the truth.
And that is forgiveness.

When you stop holding a circumstance or an individual to a concept you
have, you&rsquo;re forgiving that circumstance or that individual. You
are forgiving polluted water. You are forgiving those who knowingly or
unknowingly caused the pollution to happen. And in the desire to know
what is the truth about the water or the condition, and those that
caused the condition, you are abandoning your commitment to your
conviction about what those things are. And that abandonment with
enquiry to know the truth beyond your perception is, forgiveness.

Forgiveness practiced genuinely always results in correction &hellip;
always results in healing &hellip; always results in resurrection.
It&rsquo;s a law. It is absolute. There is no variation to it and you
can depend upon it. But you won&rsquo;t depend upon it if you
don&rsquo;t embrace what will initially be the idea or the concept.
You&rsquo;ll say, &ldquo;Resurrection is impossible, damage is
permanent!&rdquo; No forgiveness there, because there is no curiosity to
see beyond the definition or meaning you&rsquo;re applying to
everything.

And so you hold what is in actuality the Kingdom of Heaven in bondage to
a limited perception that you&rsquo;re applying to the Kingdom of Heaven
that makes it look like a material world and universe. It&rsquo;s that
simple.

How do you get past a material world and universe? By forgiving it. By
withdrawing the meanings you apply with commitment to the Kingdom of
Heaven causing you to see it through a glass darkly &hellip; that
simple.

This means that every single moment and every encounter you have with
everything is Easter Morning &hellip; the time for resurrection to occur
&hellip; the place for resurrection to occur.

But you&rsquo;ve got to let resurrection in. You&rsquo;ve got to allow
it to be part of your day, part of your own encounter with each and
every thing.

Now, I know that presently there is so much wrong going on in your
world, so much negativity, so much that seems dire and threatening, that
it seems impossible to conceive of resurrection occurring. It seems like
it will be almost impossible to have a long drawn out resurrection, much
less an instantaneous shift of perception that registers in a recordable
fashion in the world as the world, and which would be called,
&ldquo;recognizing the Kingdom of Heaven&rdquo; right where you are.

But it&rsquo;s time for this. And as I said last week, it better be part
of your embrace of A Course In Miracles.

Now, this next section is entitled:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
THE FORGIVEN WORLD[^1]
</div>

&hellip; not just a forgiven leaf or a forgiven spouse or a forgiven ant
that just bit you, but a Forgiven World.

Now, it begins by saying:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Can you imagine how beautiful those you forgive will look to you?
</div>

Well, why would it be beautiful? Because resurrection will have
occurred, and you&rsquo;ll be seeing it in its perfection.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Can you imagine how beautiful those you forgive will look to you? In no
fantasy have you ever seen anything so lovely. Nothing you see
here&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning in your ignorance &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; sleeping or waking, comes near to such loveliness.
</div>

And I&rsquo;m going to add: In spite of the loveliness that you do see
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In no fantasy have you ever seen anything so lovely. Nothing you see
here sleeping or waking, comes near to such loveliness. And nothing
will you value like unto this, nor hold so dear. Nothing [that] you
remember that made your heart seem to sing with joy has ever brought you
even a little part of the happiness this sight will bring you.
</div>

Well, it sounds like a wonderful promise doesn&rsquo;t it. Is this a
real promise? Is it something that you can expect to experience today or
tomorrow? Well, it better be. And you hold the key. Are you willing to
embrace it as the possibility today or tomorrow? More than that are you
willing to embrace it as a sort of fundamental obligation that
you&rsquo;re under to be sane and to see everything as it is &hellip;
now &hellip; now &hellip; now &hellip; now &hellip; not
put off, not delayed, not procrastinated.

Again:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Nothing that you remember that made your heart seem to sing with joy has
ever brought you even a little part of the happiness this sight will
bring you. For you will see the Son of God. You will behold the beauty
which the Holy Spirit loves to look upon, and which He thanks the Father
for &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; while you&rsquo;re neglecting to thank the Father for and which
you&rsquo;re neglecting to look upon because you&rsquo;re fascinated
with your perceptions and your processes of improving your perceptions
so that you might become an ever more valid presence without being
joined with your Source&mdash;your Father&mdash;your very Being.

The Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; He was created to see this for YOU, until you learn to see it
for yourself. And all His teaching leads to seeing it and giving thanks
with Him.
</div>

Wow &hellip; when you&rsquo;re willing to forgive and you see things
truly, there is joy, there is gratitude, there is thankfulness. It just
exudes from you because you feel it so completely.

Mind you, this is a description of what you are to expect when
you&rsquo;re practicing the holy instant: Dynamic actual change.
Resurrection: The replacement of sin, disease and death with life, truth
and love. Imperfection replaced by immaculate, amazing, awesome
perfection that is inviolable, which you will never again be tempted to
look at with a bias that screws the experience of it up.

What we&rsquo;re talking about when we use the words, &ldquo;holy
instant&rdquo; is a dynamic activity, a dynamic action, a dynamic
circumstance, if you will, in which the laws of God prevail. And you see
that they were never undone. And you see that the perfection of
everything never lapsed. That there was no variableness in it and there
is not and there cannot be.

You should not expect from week to week, to have no major changes as a
result of your studying the Course, or as a result of your practicing
the holy instant.

So all of this loveliness that we&rsquo;ve been talking about here
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This loveliness is NOT a fantasy. It is the real world, bright and clean
and new, with everything sparkling under the open sun.
</div>

Well, this is what I&rsquo;ve been talking about when I say to look at a
thing and want to experience &ldquo;the More of what God is Being
there&rdquo; than what you&rsquo;re experiencing. Because all
you&rsquo;re confronted with at any moment is the Kingdom of
Heaven&mdash;is Reality.

If you don&rsquo;t hear this often, you will forget to look with
curiosity, you will forget that there is something more here to be
experiencing&mdash;something more to be experiencing than injury or
damage or decay or deterioration. And if you forget to look with
curiosity, you deny yourself the experience of
resurrection&mdash;resurrection of your misperceptions, of your false
beliefs and their apparent results on what you see, so that you&rsquo;re
seeing a new Heaven and a new Earth, so that you are experiencing Easter
whether it&rsquo;s midnight on a Thursday night or four a.m. on a
Tuesday afternoon or whether it&rsquo;s Easter Sunday.

You know what? Easter eggs are an excellent focus of attention to look
and see the More of what God is Being there than what you&rsquo;re
seeing. The Easter egg, which seems to have nothing to do with Easter,
is a perfect subject for the meaning of Easter to be brought home to you
and change you forever.

So this year, don&rsquo;t have the Easter egg hunt just for the kids,
have it for yourself as well.

So this real world, sparkling under the open sun, well &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Nothing is hidden here, for everything has been forgiven, and there are
no fantasies to hide the truth.
</div>

You&rsquo;re not holding onto or practicing your conscientious
ignorance, which you do by defining everything yourself and ignoring the
definitions or meanings that the Father has embodied in the Movement of
His Being called, &ldquo;that thing you&rsquo;re looking for&rdquo; and
defining incorrectly.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The bridge between that world and this is so little and so easy to cross
that you could not believe it is the meeting place of worlds so
different.
</div>

What is this little bridge that bridges the gap between the unreal world
and the Real world? What is it? *F o r g i v n e s s*, the act of
forgiving. That&rsquo;s the bridge between illusion and Reality. You
see?

&ldquo;The problems seem to be so great and so complex that it&rsquo;s
going to be impossible!&rdquo; No. Because the answer&mdash;the
call&mdash;is for a little thing called forgiveness which everyone is
capable of doing. But you just have to be willing to look at the
apparently unforgiveable or the apparently impossible detrimental
movements and withdraw your determination&mdash;your
definition&mdash;and wish to see the More of what God is Being, right
there, in spite of how you are perceiving it, in spite of how everyone
else is perceiving it, in spite of how the news broadcasters are
defining it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The bridge between that world and this is so little and so easy to cross
that you could not believe it is the meeting place of worlds so
different. Yet this little bridge is the strongest thing that touches on
this world at all.
</div>

All of your fantasies are weak compared to the strength that forgiveness
embodies. Such a little thing &hellip; to forgive. It&rsquo;s something
every single one of you knows how to do and can do. You just have to
withdraw the strength you&rsquo;re using to withhold your forgiveness
because it&rsquo;s so justified for you to claim guilt &hellip; guilt
&hellip; guilt &hellip; guilt &hellip; guilt &hellip; and apply it to
everything.

&ldquo;Well, it&rsquo;s just a material world, what can you expect?
Things go wrong, things die &hellip;&rdquo; You see? Change your mind.
Change your mind by being willing to forgive.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This little step, so small it has escaped your notice, is a stride
through time into eternity, and beyond all ugliness into beauty that
will enchant you, and will never cease to cause you wonderment at its
perfection.
</div>

This is the promise. This is the reason for the holy instant &hellip;
this is the reason for the holy instant.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This step, the smallest ever taken by anything, is still the greatest
accomplishment of all in God&rsquo;s plan of Atonement. All else is
learned, but this is GIVEN, complete and wholly perfect.
</div>

When you learn something, you acquire the knowledge &hellip; you get,
get, get. But forgiveness even has the word, &ldquo;give&rdquo; in it,
doesn&rsquo;t it. You &ldquo;give&rdquo; for your anger, the willingness
to see the truth. You &ldquo;give&rdquo; for your frustration, your
willingness to see the truth.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
All else is learned, but this &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; this littlest step &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is GIVEN, complete and wholly perfect. No-one but Him Who
planned salvation &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Father &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; could complete it thus.
</div>

You see? It&rsquo;s amazing because forgiveness means that you have to
abandon the exercise of authority in the form of judgment that you place
on things and persons and places for the purpose of exercising power and
force from you in order to make you a more substantial presence.

But forgiveness is the abandoning of that. And it&rsquo;s the invitation
given to truth to enter so that it might be willingly received and felt.
So that what? Resurrection can occur.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The real world, in its loveliness, you LEARN to reach. Fantasies are all
undone, and no-one and nothing remains still bound by them, and by your
OWN forgiveness you are free to &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; to see.
</div>

You&rsquo;re free to acknowledge. You&rsquo;re free to be presented with
the truth and have it register with you.

It&rsquo;s amazing isn&rsquo;t it &hellip; that such a simple thing is
the means of returning to your right Mind, regaining your sanity,
experiencing your resurrection along with the resurrection of everything
else.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet what you see is only what you have made, with the blessing of your
forgiveness on it.
</div>

This world and universe that you call a material world and universe is
of your making. It&rsquo;s constituted of all your definitions.
Definitions&mdash;false definitions&mdash;applied to the Kingdom of
Heaven. That&rsquo;s what it is.

But when you see the world transformed, it is the Kingdom of Heaven not
denied by you. It&rsquo;s you looking at the falsities that you have
made, with forgiveness, so that what covers over the actuality of
Reality slips away because you&rsquo;re not reinforcing it. And you see
a world that sparkles under the open sun and sounds is as beautiful as
the description we read.

Again, this is Easter. This is the time to have resurrection in your
experience&mdash;yours and every thing&rsquo;s. It should be a day of
great expectation on your part because again, that really is the
obligation you&rsquo;re under. You are the holy Son and Daughter of God,
and being that, you&rsquo;re under the obligation to not miss out on the
experience of your Birthright. How&rsquo;s that for a nice positive way
of putting it? &hellip;to at least make it sound like an interesting thing
to engage in.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And with this final blessing of God&rsquo;s Son upon HIMSELF, the real
perception, born of the new perspective he has learned, has served its
purpose.
</div>

The practice of forgiveness that uncovers the Real world has served its
purpose. Now listen to this:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The stars will disappear in light, and the sun which opened up the world
to beauty will vanish. Perception will be meaningless when it has been
perfected, for everything that has been used for learning will have no
function.
</div>

Well, that makes it sound like all of this is going to disappear,
doesn&rsquo;t it? But that&rsquo;s not what it means. What it means is
that the moment you gave a false definition to a [tapping a glass] glass
or to the water that&rsquo;s in the glass&mdash;the minute you gave a
false perception, a false definition to something&mdash;that thing
became a learning tool, because it sat there forever as long as you were
entertaining the false definition, it sat there as the opportunity to
rediscover what it truly was.

And so, this part of the Kingdom of Heaven that looks like a glass
became not part of the Kingdom of Heaven but a material object, which
because it&rsquo;s actually divine, has a function&mdash;a learning
function, a teaching function. It&rsquo;s there staring you in the face,
confronting you with the divinity of itself and waiting for you to
discover it and insisting upon your discovery. You see?

So what it appeared to be and the purpose it seemed to serve will
disappear. It will not have to serve that purpose anymore. But it will
still be there being the Presence of God, being the Presence of Love,
constituted of the Substance which is Spirit, and so on.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Perception will be meaningless when it has been perfected&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; when you&rsquo;ve practiced the holy instant and you&rsquo;ve
let the true perception in, then you&rsquo;ll be having the true
conscious experience of it and perception will vanish. Perceptions are
variable. One day you can look at a beautiful painting and be moved
tremendously by it, and another day when you&rsquo;re depressed and you
look at the same painting your perception of it will be flat, dull, and
you&rsquo;ll wonder why anybody ever sat down with a brush and painted a
single stroke on that canvas.

Perceptions change, but that which you have perceptions of are Real. And
when perceptions, through your learning, from the Holy Spirit, help you
arrive at seeing the Presence of God there instead of what you had been
seeing then perception becomes no longer useful in any way. And so
you&rsquo;ll stop having perceptions of the thing and you&rsquo;ll have
the direct experience of it. It will not disappear.

Again:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Perception will be meaningless when it has been perfected, for
everything that has been used for learning will have no function.
</div>

Will no longer have any function.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Nothing will ever change; no shifts nor shadings, no differences, no
variations which made perception possible will occur.
</div>

Now mind you, the Movement of God, the Movement of Creation is not what
makes perception possible. The Movement of Creation will still be
infinitely present. God&rsquo;s Being will not be thwarted by your no
longer bringing perceptions into play as you look at God&rsquo;s
Creation and witness Them for what they really Are. And in doing that
co-create with Him.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Nothing will ever change;
</div>

Everything will always be perfect. Every Movement will be perfect
eternally. Everything that is moving will be perfect eternally. Every
conscious experience of it will be changeless. It will be perfect
eternally. You see? Creation&mdash;It&rsquo;s movement and the
experience of It&mdash;will not be variable, it will not be able to sin,
suffer, deteriorate, die, get better, be resurrected and so on. But it
doesn&rsquo;t mean it will disappear.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The perception of the real world will be so short that you will barely
have time to thank God for it. For God will take the last step swiftly
when you have reached the real world, and have been made ready for Him.
</div>

So, you will have the experience of resurrection and true perception
momentarily. Because when you have that experience you&rsquo;re going to
have the most gigantic &ldquo;Ah-ha!&rdquo; that you have ever had. And
in that &ldquo;Ah-ha!&rdquo; meaning, &ldquo;I see it! I
understand,&rdquo; you come Home, you come back into your right
Mind&mdash;Ascension occurs. You see?

Now, that means that every moment and everything you experience in every
moment is an opportunity for resurrection and spontaneous Ascension
&hellip; today &hellip; now &hellip; now &hellip; now &hellip; tomorrow.
You see?

Don&rsquo;t go through this week, don&rsquo;t go through another day
without having an active curiosity to see resurrection occur. Why?
Because you&rsquo;re willing to abandon your definitions and say,
&ldquo;Father, what is the truth here? . .&rdquo; because it&rsquo;s
your obligation to see the truth, to experience the truth because
it&rsquo;s your Birthright, it&rsquo;s your nature, it&rsquo;s your
function that could never have really been taken away and therefore
hasn&rsquo;t been. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The real world is attained simply by the complete forgiveness of the
old, the world you see WITHOUT forgiveness.
</div>

And the reason you see it without forgiveness is because you&rsquo;re
applying your own well-developed definitions and meanings to it all. And
then you&rsquo;re blaming the things for the definitions you&rsquo;ve
applied to them. The only way to forgive them is to abandon
them&mdash;the meaning you&rsquo;re applying&mdash;and to abandon the
arrogance that says, &ldquo;What you believe and what you know and what
you have defined things as is absolutely correct, flawless,
unattackable.&rdquo;

It&rsquo;s not a very great cost to abandon that arrogance and that
confidence. And this little tiny step which is forever present with you
can be practiced immediately&mdash;the step of forgiveness, the
two-step.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Great Transformer of perception will undertake with you the careful
searching of the mind that made this world&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the one of the definitions you&rsquo;re using &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and uncover to you the seeming reasons for your making it. [Raj
did not read this: In the light of the REAL reason which He brings, as
you follow Him,] He will show you that there is no reason here at all.
</div>

The meanings you&rsquo;ve given to everything have no reason because the
definitions and meanings don&rsquo;t arise out of what truly Is, just
out of imagination.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Each spot HIS reason touches &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and His is the Holy Spirit.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Each spot HIS reason touches grows alive with beauty, and what seemed
ugly in the darkness of your lack of reason is suddenly released to
loveliness.
</div>

That&rsquo;s resurrection&mdash;here &hellip; now &hellip; today
&hellip; in this world.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Not even what the Son of God made in insanity could be without a hidden
spark of beauty which gentleness could release.
</div>

So the loveliness of Love that abides in you and is the Substance of you
and is the mover of you, is always embodied in everything, including
that which you ignorantly create in a conflicted way. And the moment you
release your definitions, the moment forgiveness comes into play, the
loveliness of you that was embodied there becomes illuminated to you and
you say, &ldquo;This is Heaven!&rdquo; . . and you know it&rsquo;s true.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
All this beauty will rise to bless your sight as you look upon the world
with forgiving eyes.
</div>

This is what Easter means.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
All this beauty will rise to bless your sight as you look upon the world
with forgiving eyes.
</div>

Correction &hellip; resurrection &hellip; healing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For forgiveness literally transforms vision, and lets you see the real
world reaching quietly and gently across chaos, and removing all
illusions which had twisted your perception, and fixed it on the past.
</div>

As I said last week, Mind maintains all identities from a blade of grass
to a star as distinct and eternal.[^2]

Continuing here:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The smallest leaf becomes a thing of wonder, and a blade of grass a sign
of God&rsquo;s perfection.
</div>

So, don&rsquo;t be too quick to deny the world and don&rsquo;t be too
quick to discount it as something that will disappear. What will
disappear is the misperception. And what will disappear is the, what
I&rsquo;m going to call, the ego motivation that gave meaning to the
development of perceptions and misperceptions. That&rsquo;s all.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
From the forgiven world, the Son of God is lifted easily into his home.
</div>

What does that mean? It means that from the state of resurrection, the
Son of God can easily be lifted to his Home&mdash;the Movement of
Ascension &hellip; the Movement of Ascension where the shift occurs and
you say, &ldquo;Ah-ha, I understand!&rdquo; And it&rsquo;s not an
intellectual understanding.

I can come close to sharing with you the experience by saying that it is
a shift from body identification where you think you are a body&mdash;a
small thing in the middle of an infinite universe that has a little bit
of flesh in its head called a brain that can think, that gives the
experience of a mind&mdash;it&rsquo;s a shift from that to the
experience of being Mind in which the world and universe and body and
leaves and stars exist as Ideas, which are distinctly eternal and
awesomely perfect and incredible to experience.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
From the forgiven world, the Son of God is lifted easily into his home.
</div>

The forgiven world is while you are still thinking you&rsquo;re a body
but you&rsquo;re having an experience of the Kingdom of Heaven instead
of the world&mdash;instead of a material world and universe. And in that
experience, still from a viewpoint or vantage point of the body, you say
you realize, you understand, the meaning is clear and you involuntarily
abandon the body identification and let yourself be Mind in which
infinity and eternity is and is being Creation unfolding.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
From the forgiven world, the Son of God is lifted easily into his home.
And there he knows that he has ALWAYS rested there in peace.
</div>

This other was a transitory misperception that didn&rsquo;t change a
thing in actuality.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Even salvation will become a dream, and vanish from his mind. For
salvation IS the end of dreams, and with the closing of the dream will
have no meaning.
</div>

Salvation will have no meaning once the dream is ended, because you will
understand and you will not need to be released from anything. You might
say Salvation is complete.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Who, awake in Heaven, could dream that there could ever be NEED of
salvation?
</div>

Now, I understand that there are some who listen to what I&rsquo;m
saying who feel that I&rsquo;ve become somewhat aggressive and pushy and
perhaps impatient and perhaps irritated. All of which is not true. But
you know what? As I&rsquo;ve said, you all have the obligation to
experience things as they truly Are because it&rsquo;s your Birthright
and it&rsquo;s your function. So there is a push you might say, arising
out of your very Being, out of the sanity of you that you&rsquo;ve been
avoiding. Listen:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
How much do you WANT salvation?
</div>

I&rsquo;m just saying &hellip; hey, want it! Want it now &hellip; now
&hellip; now &hellip; tomorrow &hellip; not off in the distant future.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It will give you the real world&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; listen to this &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; trembling with readiness to BE given you.
</div>

I promise you that everything that you see is a conscious Idea of God
and It wants you to experience it truly. It wants you not to escape Its
meaning. Because when you&rsquo;re not escaping Its meaning, communion
is occurring, your oneness with It and Its oneness with you is occurring
and nothing is missing. Infinity is One, which means all that is
included in it has the conscious intent to experience
Oneness&mdash;infinitely speaking.

I&rsquo;ve said in the past, that when you decide you want to get in
touch with your Guide, your Guide rejoices because your Guide has waited
a long time for you to arrive at a point of realizing that he or she
exists and that you&rsquo;re reaching out.

And so in your reaching out it&rsquo;s not a one-sided deal, your Guide
is reaching out to you as well, it&rsquo;s a mutual endeavor which makes
it easier. And likewise all of Creation is reaching out to you right
now, desiring for you to experience It without misperceptions.

And I&rsquo;ll tell you something else: That&rsquo;s why when you let in
the barest experience of It, it feels like you are being loved with an
infinite Love.

I&rsquo;m going to go back:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
How much do you WANT salvation? It will give you the real world,
trembling with readiness to BE given you. The eagerness of the Holy
Spirit to give you this is so intense He would not wait, although He
waits in patience.
</div>

You see? So am I getting pushy? Am I getting aggressive? Am I trying to
make you do something that you don&rsquo;t want to do or that maybe you
shouldn&rsquo;t have to do? No, not at all. All of Creation, all of the
infinite oneness of Being is directed at your having this experience,
motivating you with Love to let it in&mdash;with love not impatience,
with love not irritation.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Meet His patience with &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; with what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; your impatience &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; so now the Course is pushing you. But actually it&rsquo;s just
encouraging you to feel a motivation that you&rsquo;re not otherwise
feeling and is encouraging you to feel it and practice it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Meet His &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirits &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; patience with your impatience at delay in meeting Him. Go out
in gladness to meet with your Redeemer, and walk with him in trust out
of this world&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the one you&rsquo;ve made up &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and into the real world of beauty and forgiveness.
</div>

Wow, you may not ever have thought of Easter in terms of the word
&ldquo;forgiveness.&rdquo; But forgiveness begets resurrection. And
resurrection begets Ascension&mdash;yours and everything that
you&rsquo;re experiencing.

Happy Easter.

[^1]: T17.2 The Forgiven World
[^2]: M.B. Eddy: Science and Health, pg 70

