---
title: Apr 30, 2011
ref: "T17.3 Shadows of the Past"
alink: "/acim/text/17/chap1703/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

Well, last week we talked about the joy of Easter and the fact that
every single moment provides the opportunity for the experience of
resurrection. And therefore, every moment holds the promise of joy as
well as the experience of joy and it awaits everyone&rsquo;s willingness
to stand in receipt of it.

Tonight we&rsquo;re going to discuss some of the ways in which the
experience of it is kept at a distance. And we&rsquo;re beginning a new
section entitled:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*Shadows of the Past*[^1]

To forgive is merely to remember only the LOVING thoughts you gave in
the past, and those that were given you. All the rest must be forgotten.
Forgiveness is a selective remembering&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; easy thing to do. You might think, &ldquo;Oh, just selective
remembering &hellip;&rdquo; but there&rsquo;s a key here, there&rsquo;s
an element that is absolutely essential. And as it happens, it&rsquo;s
part and parcel of the two-step&mdash;of the holy instant.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Forgiveness is a selective remembering, based not on YOUR selection.
</div>

In other words, resurrection will not occur as a result of your
consciously choosing to remember this, that, or the other thing, whether
you might pick correctly or not. It&rsquo;s selective remembering that
happens as a result of your saying, &ldquo;Father, what is the truth
here? Holy Spirit, what is the truth here? Father, share with me Your
Perspective that It might illuminate my perception with what is Real
instead of what I have believed it is.&rdquo; You see?

You don&rsquo;t know the difference between what is Real of what
you&rsquo;re seeing and what is distortion that you&rsquo;ve introduced
into the picture. And so therefore, you simply can&rsquo;t rely upon
yourself to make the decision between truth and illusion.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Forgiveness is a selective remembering, based not on YOUR selection. For
the shadow figures you would make immortal are "enemies" of reality.
</div>

&hellip; shadow figures &hellip; and again what is this section?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
SHADOWS OF THE PAST
</div>

&hellip; shadow figures &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the shadow figures you would make immortal are
&ldquo;enemies&rdquo; of reality.
</div>

Well, what are shadow figures? They are the definitions, the meanings
that you have imagined and superimposed upon your Brothers and Sisters
as well as all of Creation, concepts and beliefs about your Brothers and
Sisters that you have superimposed upon them.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Be willing to forgive the Son of God for what he did NOT do.
</div>

The Son of God, the Daughter of God did not do what you imagined he or
she did.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The shadow figures are the witnesses you bring with you to demonstrate
he did what he did NOT. Because you brought them, you will hear them.
</div>

&hellip; you will listen to yourself.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And you who kept them by your OWN selection do not understand how they
came into your minds, and what their purpose is.
</div>

So let&rsquo;s talk about this for a minute. Where did these shadow
figures come from and what is their purpose? Well, to answer that
question we have to go back to the beginning, don&rsquo;t we. We have to
go back to that point where you said, &ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;d rather
see it my way. Father, I&rsquo;d rather determine what this is. Father,
I want a divorce.&rdquo; And then you joined with another Son or
Daughter of God in that intent and together you fantasized your reality
you made up, you created out of imagination the meanings for everything
God had already Created. It&rsquo;s that simple.

But, the moment you did that, the moment you separated from God and
said, &ldquo;I&rsquo;m going to stand here in my own right and I&rsquo;m
going to use my God-given intelligence and my God-given capacity to be,
to determine everything for myself. I&rsquo;m going to make myself out
of my capacity to be intelligence, as God created me to be.&rdquo; You
see?

But when that happened &hellip; the big surprise was that &hellip; as
we&rsquo;ve discussed before, two elements came into the picture: Fear
and guilt. Fear was your innate sanity&mdash;it was the feeling that is
like the alarm on a truck that rings when the truck is backing up saying
that there is danger of some sort, be alert, don&rsquo;t proceed
unconsciously. You see? And so the fear was the discomfort you felt from
trying to do something you can&rsquo;t do.

You were trying to be independent. You can&rsquo;t do that. You
can&rsquo;t succeed at doing it. But as long as you insist upon trying,
the discomfort, the dissonance will be there. You call it fear. And
then, it occasions guilt. You see? Because you&rsquo;re attempting to do
something you can&rsquo;t do but you believe you can and in that belief,
you are wrong. And so you&rsquo;re engaging in actively being wrong. You
see?

Well, there is a God. There is truth. And so you&rsquo;re not going to
be able to try to do the impossible without this feedback. You&rsquo;re
simply not.

Now, existence for you is made up of two fundamental things: Fear and
guilt. You&rsquo;re still experiencing the only Creation there is: The
Kingdom of Heaven, but now you&rsquo;re experiencing It through fear and
guilt. It colors everything as you begin to define everything on your
own.

And so your definitions embody whatever degree of fear or guilt is being
experienced at the time that the meanings are being given. Because there
is fear, you know there is danger. Where is the danger? Why it&rsquo;s
in Creation itself. It&rsquo;s in the only thing you have available to
you to have a concept about, to create a definition of, to create a
shadow figure about.

And so, as many of you may have heard, there&rsquo;s a phrase that,
&ldquo;life is a terminal illness. Enjoy it while it lasts.&rdquo; You
see? So, eternal life has now been given a demeaning meaning &hellip;
demeaning meaning: It isn&rsquo;t life eternal, it isn&rsquo;t the
constant experience of Easter, if I may put it that way, it is a
terminal illness.

Now, everything has scary aspects to it. Everything you see is
polarized. It therefore is conflicted but somehow maintaining a tenuous
balance so that everything doesn&rsquo;t disappear into chaos. And of
course, the reason it doesn&rsquo;t disappear into chaos is not because
the conflict is balanced, but because it&rsquo;s the Kingdom of Heaven
and it&rsquo;s the evidence of God and it can&rsquo;t disappear into
oblivion. You see?

But nevertheless, the fear is there and it colors everything
you&rsquo;re experiencing.

Now, your Brothers and Sisters are like you and they are part of the
danger even though you&rsquo;ve joined with them in your independence.
You have a interdependent independence because you cannot separate from
the Father without a mutual agreement to be at odds with the Father. And
so you have an agreement to be independent. And you each confirm the
others&rsquo; independence even though the confirmation states
absolutely that you&rsquo;re dependent and you are depending upon each
other to help maintain this distance from God&mdash;this unconsciousness
of your holy relationship with God and with each other. You see?

So these shadow figures are the meanings that you apply to the Kingdom
of Heaven and that you started applying the moment you got your
divorce&mdash;the moment you said, &ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;d rather do it
my way.&rdquo; You see?

These shadow figures have to be given up. You have to stop applying them
to the moment you&rsquo;re in. Because as long as you keep applying
them, you&rsquo;re not available to what&rsquo;s actually happening in
this moment you&rsquo;re in. The Kingdom of Heaven remains unavailable
to you because of your conscious intent to ignore It in favor of holding
onto your shadow figures&mdash;you&rsquo;re holding on to the ones that
make sense to you. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
They &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the shadow figures &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; represent the evil that you THINK was done to you.
</div>

You see? The simple fact is, you&rsquo;re the one who said,
&ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;d rather see it my way&rdquo; and that very
intent, acted upon, brought the experience of fear and guilt into your
experience. It&rsquo;s nobody else&rsquo;s fault. But because everything
has become polarized by fear and guilt in your mind, you assign the
evilness to the things &ldquo;out there &hellip;&rdquo; your Brother,
your Sister &hellip; and then you hold them to that. And because
they&rsquo;re in the same boat because they agreed to do this with you,
they&rsquo;re likely to believe you. And they&rsquo;re likely to feel
threatened by you and the stance you&rsquo;re taking relative to them.
And so now you have to work out an uneasy truce together &hellip; and
that&rsquo;s life.

But it&rsquo;s not real life. It&rsquo;s you and your Brothers all
responding to and acting in relationship to shadow
figures&mdash;pictures you&rsquo;re each entertaining about each other
that are false&mdash;because you can&rsquo;t see the truth about each
other when you&rsquo;ve said, &ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;d rather define it
my way.&rdquo; The only way you can see it is through fear. It&rsquo;s
really very simple.

The problem is that seeing things this way and being this way for quite
some time, it has become excessively meaningful to you because it
promises you the potential of becoming a fully realized independent
identity. Hard to give up that kind of stuff.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
They &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the shadow figures &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; represent the evil that you THINK was done to you. You bring
them with you only that you may return evil for evil, hoping that their
witness will enable you to think guiltily of another and NOT harm
yourself.
</div>

You see? As long as they can be guilty, as long as you can identify them
as the guilty ones responsible for your lack of ease&mdash;your
fear&mdash;it saves you from having to look at the fact that you made a
decision to try to see things by yourself &hellip; something you cannot
do and that the attempt is what has caused your whole experience to seem
to be at odds with you or potentially at odds with you. You see? As long
as you can point out there, you will overlook what really caused it. And
you will deprive yourself of discovering the holy instant, which is the
place where you abandon that stance. The easy, simple two-step that
allows you to step back out of this false experience, this treacherous
false experience of Creation&mdash;the Kingdom of Heaven&mdash;and
return unto your right Mind.

Now, something else I need to point out to you is, that always the
projection, the claim that something else or someone else is guilty of
your discomfort, comes with emotion. One never, in utter peace, says,
&ldquo;This pain I&rsquo;m experiencing was caused by Joe. Who was your
pain caused by?&rdquo; No one ever sits casually, unemotionally talking
about pain and the cause of pain &hellip; right? Certainly it
doesn&rsquo;t happen because there&rsquo;s no power in it. There&rsquo;s
no power by which to bring about change, meaning the reduction of pain.

You&rsquo;re simply unable to be dispassionate about fear and pain and
guilt. You all enjoy feeling your emotions. And they are what perpetuate
your remaining in the human condition&mdash;the orphanage.

I&rsquo;m going to read this again:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
They &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the shadow images &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; represent the evil that you THINK was done to you. You bring
 them with you only that you may return evil for evil&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; there&rsquo;s where you get balance and edge and reinforce your
power &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; that you may return evil for evil, hoping that their witness
will enable you to think guiltily of another and NOT harm yourself. They
speak so clearly for the separation that no-one not obsessed with
KEEPING separation could hear them.
</div>

What that means is they speak so clearly for your independence from the
Father, your separating from the Father, &ldquo;but Father, I&rsquo;d
rather do it my way, I&rsquo;m going to be Your Son, I&rsquo;m going to
be Your Daughter and use the skills and capacities You have embodied in
me to copy You and be a good representative or offspring that You can be
proud of. But in order to do that I&rsquo;m going to forget that You
are my Father and whether You&rsquo;re going to be proud of me or not,
and I&rsquo;m going to embark on this adventure &hellip;&rdquo;

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
They speak so clearly for the separation that no-one not obsessed with
KEEPING separation could hear them.
</div>

There&rsquo;s just no way that you could make sense out of the attempt
to bring order where there is disorder by not handling the cause. Only
someone obsessed with something unobtainable like independent selfhood
could hear that there&rsquo;s a possibility of becoming independent by
not recognizing what is causing the discomfort, the fear, the
polarization and the challenge that causes you to see life as a
&ldquo;terminal disease.&rdquo;

So, do you see that what I&rsquo;m talking about right now which is a
pretty miserable state of affairs, is a perspective, is a way of
experiencing being that&rsquo;s happening right along side an experience
of Being that we talked about last week that had to do with a World that
was eager to have you recognize for what It is, that everything around
you is geared toward the happy reunion in you of your Mind and the true
perception of everything it&rsquo;s experiencing. You see?

These two things are going on apparently side by side. One is fabulous,
meaning of a fable, and the other is Real. And it&rsquo;s really simple
to slip from one to the other. It&rsquo;s really simple to slip back
Home. But it doesn&rsquo;t happen because you&rsquo;re likely to find as
you give more attention to what I&rsquo;m saying and what the Course is
teaching, that the hooker, the thing that gets you &hellip; that gets
you involved in an activity that keeps you from Waking up is emotion,
your emotions, and the satisfaction you get from the attempt to get
control over someone or something that you have determined is the reason
you&rsquo;re not happy, is the reason you&rsquo;re not well.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
They &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the shadow figures &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; offer you the "reasons" why you should enter into unholy
alliances which support the ego&rsquo;s goals, and make your
relationships the witness to its power.
</div>

&ldquo;Well, if I can get so-in-so to agree with me, if I can get
someone to acquiesce to what I want and what will make me feel really
good, it&rsquo;s worth trying for. And I will find ways to sucker him in
&hellip; I will provide enough goodies, enough benefits to him to get
him to decide to go along with me and do the thing that I want even
though he&rsquo;s sacrificing his integrity.&rdquo;

You see? That&rsquo;s the way it works.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
They offer you &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the shadow figures &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
 &hellip; offer you the &ldquo;reasons&rdquo; why you should enter into
 unholy alliances which support the ego&rsquo;s goals, and make your
 relationships the witness to its power. It is these shadow
 figures&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your definitions, keep that in mind &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is these shadow figures which would make the EGO holy in your
sight&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; &ldquo;By dammit, that&rsquo;s true! And I&rsquo;m
fightin&rsquo; for my ego and I&rsquo;m gonna build my ego up and
I&rsquo;m gonna do my damndest to get everybody to agree with me that
it&rsquo;s the greatest or perhaps, just absolutely great. And
that&rsquo;s my goal in life.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is these shadow figures which would make the EGO holy &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in other words, worthwhile&mdash;the thing to claim and hold
onto relentlessly without ever giving it up &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; which would make the EGO holy &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in your sight

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and teach you what you do to keep IT safe is really love.
</div>

Let me read it again:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is these shadow figures which would make the EGO holy in your sight,
and teach you what you do to keep IT safe is really love.
</div>

It&rsquo;s bullshit. And it&rsquo;s a good time to use that word because
we&rsquo;re sort of talking in holy words even though we&rsquo;re
talking about the unpleasantness of denying your holiness. But you know
what? To convince your Brothers or Sisters that for them to sacrifice
their integrity to help you for the sake of getting a few benefits, to
teach them that that is love and to believe that that&rsquo;s love
because after all if they will acquiesce to you, you will truly be able
to help them, you see? But if you have caused them to sacrifice their
integrity, it can&rsquo;t be love. And to be very frank with you, it has
to be evil. It has to be evil in the sense that practiced, it would
cause people to find justification to sacrifice themselves. That&rsquo;s
an excellent definition of evil.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The shadow figures &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; all these meanings and definitions you&rsquo;re employing
instead of having a connection with what everything really is, they
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; ALWAYS speak for vengeance, and all relationships into which
they enter are totally insane.
</div>

These seem to be very strong words. But they&rsquo;re simply true

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The shadow figures ALWAYS speak for vengeance&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and you say, &ldquo;Vengeance doesn&rsquo;t go through my mind
at any time during the day. I&rsquo;m not a vengeful person, therefore
this sentence doesn&rsquo;t relate to me.&rdquo; But let me ask you
this: If you are the holy Son or Daughter of God, but you think that
you&rsquo;re just a creature, an organism on the face of your planet
that came out of some physical process, then this idea, concept, or
belief that you are holding about yourself and according to which you
are governing yourself, constitutes an absolute denial of your
Sonship&mdash;your holy Sonship or Daughtership. It blinds you to Who
your Source is. It blinds you to your holiness. It causes you to be
unconscious of it.

Isn&rsquo;t that vengeful? Isn&rsquo;t that awful? Isn&rsquo;t that an
assessment that is made of you that causes you to sacrifice or be unable
to be conscious of your divinity? That is absolutely vengeful. And when
you apply that perspective to your Brothers and Sisters or your world
and you say, &ldquo;It&rsquo;s not the Kingdom of Heaven, it&rsquo;s a
material world and universe,&rdquo; I&rsquo;m sorry, you are denying
It&rsquo;s holiness. It is a vengeful thing.

Now vengeance is usually something that happens as a result of something
else. And indeed, there is something that has happened that has caused
you to look at your world with vengeance, with a perspective, a meaning,
a definition that is the antithesis of what it actually is. And that
which has caused you to do that is the act you engaged in initially of
separating from the Father. Vengeance is the perfect word.

Now do you have to get all upset about it? Do you have to get ultra
critical about yourself? Do you have to say, &ldquo;Boy, I must be a
worse bastard than I ever thought I was.&rdquo; No! It just means that
you need to have this kind of clarity &hellip; you need to see with this
kind of clarity. You need to be able to look and say, &ldquo;As long as
I&rsquo;m not doing the two-step and asking the Father what is the truth
here, what is the real meaning of this leaf, what is the real meaning of
this Brother or Sister, what is the real meaning of the moon&rdquo; and
so on &hellip; if you&rsquo;re not asking that, you are engaging in a
refusal to experience It for what it really Is. That is an act of
vengeance.

Now, once you&rsquo;re clear about that and at the same time you know
that there is an answer to it called the two-step or the holy instant,
you&rsquo;ve got the means to step away from that experience, you have
the means of abandoning the vengeance. The clarity is helpful even
though the words express a truth that could seem to be a judgment upon
you. Don&rsquo;t get sidetracked. See it for what it is, so that you
might more easily say, &ldquo;In this moment &hellip; this moment
&hellip; this moment &hellip; Father what&rsquo;s the truth here
&hellip; Holy Spirit what&rsquo;s the truth here &hellip; Father
what&rsquo;s the real meaning of this &hellip; and the real meaning of
this?&rdquo; You see? That&rsquo;s all.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The shadow figures ALWAYS speak for vengeance, and all relationships
into which they enter are totally insane.
</div>

Well why would we say they&rsquo;re insane? Well, you know what? We
talked awhile ago about the fact that a special relationship is a
relationship you have with something without ever asking the Father,
what is the truth here. You see?

In other words, a special relationship is a relationship you have
without the Father&rsquo;s Perspective, without the clear, true
understanding and experience of Who this one is that you&rsquo;re having
a relationship with, or what this thing truly Is that you&rsquo;re
having a relationship with. A special relationship is a relationship
you&rsquo;re having all by yourself and providing all of the meanings
that are being employed to make sense out of what&rsquo;s happening.

And so, neither you nor your Brother are relating with anything real at
all. You&rsquo;re bouncing off your own images that you&rsquo;re
projecting onto each other. That&rsquo;s insane. Because you think
you&rsquo;re having a relationship and yet, you&rsquo;re never
connecting with the ones you truly Are.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Without exception, these relationships have, as their PURPOSE, the
exclusion of the truth about the other, and of YOURSELF. This is why you
see in BOTH what is not there, and make of both the slaves of vengeance.
</div>

You bring each other into a state of bondage because you engage each
other in a vigorous involvement based upon false perceptions
you&rsquo;re having of each other. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is why you see in BOTH what is not there, and make of both the
slaves of vengeance. And why whatever reminds you of your past
grievances, no matter how distorted the associations by which you arrive
at the remembrance may be, attracts you, and seems to you to go by the
name of love.
</div>

You see? You refer to these relationships as love/hate relationships.
And love/hate relationships can be looked at as though they&rsquo;re all
some form of love (screwed up mentality).

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And finally, why all such relationships become the attempt at union
through the BODY, for ONLY bodies can be seen as means for vengeance.
That bodies are central to all unholy relationships is evident. Your OWN
experience has taught you this. But what you do not realize are ALL the
reasons which go to make the relationship unholy. For unholiness seeks
to REINFORCE itself, as holiness does, by gathering to itself what it
perceives as like itself.
</div>

Now, the reason that bodies can be seen as the means of vengeance is
because when you said, &ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;d rather see things
myself, I&rsquo;d rather define them myself,&rdquo; where you had before
that, experienced Creation as embraced by your mind, that all of
Creation was going on within the Mind that you Are&mdash;the conscious
awareness of being that you Are, once you got the divorce, all of a
sudden&hellip; surprise&hellip; surprise you lost the infinite
perspective which is one of the reasons that fear entered into the
picture. Because all of a sudden you were tiny, and you were identified
with what you call your body even though prior to that, all of Creation
was You including what you now call your body. But it also included the
trees and the planets and infinity that you do not remember at this
moment.

So, once you got your independence, once you thought you got your
independence and suddenly found yourself identified with a specific form
out of all of Creation, you identified that form as you. And the you
that the body was, was this independent mind that&rsquo;s trying to make
something out of itself. Well, what is the &ldquo;it&rdquo; that&rsquo;s
making something out of itself? This body. This thing that has a head
and legs and arms and a brain, a capacity to think that&rsquo;s purely
physical. I mean really, since when could meat think? You know,
it&rsquo;s nonsensical.

Now, the bodies became the means of dealing with grievances. And you all
know that. After all what about the emotions that you feel when you get
angry or when you&rsquo;re fighting for a right or you&rsquo;re trying
to get justice. They&rsquo;re all associated with sensations,
aren&rsquo;t they?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
That bodies are central to all unholy relationships is evident. Your OWN
experience has taught you this. But what you do not realize are ALL the
reasons which go to make the relationship unholy. For unholiness seeks
to REINFORCE itself, as holiness does, by gathering to itself what it
perceives as like itself.

In the unholy relationship&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; listen to this &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; it is not the body of the OTHER with which union is attempted,
but the bodies of those who are not THERE.
</div>

What do you suppose that means? It means the bodies of those whom you
have conceived as &hellip; well, let&rsquo;s say &hellip; black &hellip;
and maybe not fit to be a president. There you go.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In the unholy relationship, it is not the body of the OTHER with which
union is attempted, but the bodies of those who are not THERE.
</div>

You have a concept about someone. And the concept is that they&rsquo;re
a body just like you are. And some of those bodies &hellip; and of
course, you&rsquo;re really not talking about the body itself of the
holy Son of God or holy Daughter of God &hellip; you&rsquo;re talking
about the body of the concept of a person that you have in your mind.
And your concept of, let&rsquo;s say, a black person is such that they
really don&rsquo;t have the status or the stature or the meaning that it
really takes to be a president &hellip; or to ride on the bus in the
front. You see what I&rsquo;m saying?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In the unholy relationship, it is not the body of the OTHER with which
union is attempted, but the bodies of those who are not THERE.
</div>

The bodies of those that each of you have conceptualized and put in a
category, whether they&rsquo;re an aunt or an uncle, a brother or a
sister, or a cousin, or a neighbor whom you have developed very definite
opinions and concepts about. And if you see them, you don&rsquo;t see
them&mdash;the holy Son or Daughter of God&mdash;you see your concept of
them and the very act of seeing them infuriates you.

It is insane. So again I&rsquo;m going to read this:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In the unholy relationship, it is not the body of the OTHER with which
union is attempted, but the bodies of those who are not THERE. Even the
body of the other, already a severely limited perception of him, is not
the central focus as it is, or in entirety. What can be used for
fantasies of vengeance, and what can be most readily associated with
those on whom vengeance is REALLY sought, are centered on and separated
OFF, as being the only parts of value.
</div>

&ldquo;Well, he was my friend but he did something and now he&rsquo;s
not my friend. He did something that I can&rsquo;t tolerate. When people
of that sort do those things I separate myself from them, because I have
dignity and self-respect.&rdquo;

There was no connection there with an individual&mdash;the holy Son or
Daughter of God. There wasn&rsquo;t even a connection with whoever that
individual believes he is. You had a monolog. You had a private
experience that you fooled yourself into believing was about your
Brother. And yet you just spun around in your own private fantasy, which
has to inevitably leave your Brother or Sister at a complete loss
because no connection with them has been made. And you&rsquo;ve arrived
at the point where the two-step is called for. You&rsquo;ve arrived at
the point where the holy instant has to be practiced.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Every step taken in the making, the maintaining &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in other words, the creation, the making &hellip; the making of
your fantasy, the making of your definition or meaning that you&rsquo;re
applying to someone else.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Every step taken in the making, the maintaining and the breaking off of
the unholy relationship is a move toward further fragmentation and
unreality.
</div>

How can you tell? Well, does doing that cause you to be any closer to
saying, &ldquo;Father, what&rsquo;s the truth here?&rdquo; Does any of
that put you closer to a moment where you can have an
&ldquo;Ah-ha!&rdquo; experience and realize the truth? No. And because
it&rsquo;s engaged in with feeling, it inevitably moves the unholy
relationship towards further fragmentation and unreality.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The shadow figures enter more and more, and the one in whom they seem to
be DECREASES in importance.
</div>

As the shadow figures are more and more employed, the experience of who
that other one truly Is fades further in the distance&mdash;becomes less
and less meaningful or valuable.

That means that the employment of these shadow figures is the
significant means you employ to avoid Resurrection, to avoid the
experience of your Easter. It&rsquo;s the means you use to avoid the
brightness and the joy of the Real world and the resurrection and the
Awakening.

So be willing to look at yourselves soberly, as we&rsquo;ve been
discussing, so that you might see just exactly how what you&rsquo;re
doing doesn&rsquo;t serve you. Because in that clarity it will cause you
to find it to be very reasonable to dare to practice the holy instant,
to dare to engage in the two-step and to do it often, often, often,
often!

We talked about the fact that resurrection means actual change. And it
means that you&rsquo;re going to experience an actual change, whereby
you let go of the shadow images, whereby you let go of the memories that
don&rsquo;t serve your Awakening, where you willingly let go of
everything that doesn&rsquo;t express love or doesn&rsquo;t show forth
the love that you have expressed during your lifetime, so that the truly
loving things that you have done and the truly loving things that have
been done to you, stand alone, giving you an undistorted clear
experience of Reality, which, because it is unconflicted allows for a
spontaneous expansion of that clarity, beyond just the things you did
that were loving and things that were done to you that were loving, so
that all of Creation becomes embraced in that clarity of love.

Now I promise you&mdash;and I will keep saying this over and
over&mdash;that Awakening will be spontaneous. You cannot work it. You
cannot make it happen.

And that&rsquo;s the good news. Don&rsquo;t think that because you
can&rsquo;t make it happen, it will never happen for you. Indeed, the
minute you stop trying to make it happen, the minute you begin to
genuinely say, &ldquo;Father, what is the truth here?&rdquo; And the
minute you stop being discouraged because all the times that
you&rsquo;ve said it haven&rsquo;t caused you to experience it yet, it
will spontaneously happen.

Everything about you and everything about Reality stands in enthusiastic
and exuberant support of your recognizing the truth and is attentive to
you constantly &hellip; daily &hellip; nightly, whether you&rsquo;re
awake or asleep &hellip; to facilitate the truth registering with you.
Know this!

During this coming week I&rsquo;m going to ask you to be particularly
attentive to the rising up of emotion in you as a means of getting
control of a situation, so that you might squelch it instantly. Because
remember, when you are doing that you are identified as a body, a body
that isn&rsquo;t recognized to be part of Creation but just you in all
of your importance. And because the sense of self that is identifying
itself that way is an orphan, a self-declared orphan, it&rsquo;s
perspective is false and it&rsquo;s colored by fear and guilt. And
therefore, everything it engages in is an act of vengeance, which will
hurt you by keeping you ignorant of what you would discover if you
practiced the holy instant. That&rsquo;s the simple clarity.

I love you all. And I look forward to being with you next week.

[^1]: T17.3 Shadows of the Past

