---
title: May 14, 2011
ref: "T17.3 Shadows of the Past"
alink: "/acim/text/17/chap1703/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

We&rsquo;ve been talking about shadow figures. And we&rsquo;ve been
talking about the fact that a shadow figure is a meaning that you have
given to yourself to identify yourself, or a meaning you have given to
someone else to identify them.

Now that is something far different from walking up to someone you know
on the street and saying, &ldquo;I Am. You Are.&rdquo; You didn&rsquo;t
say, &ldquo;I am happy. You are unhappy. I am better than you. You are
worse than me.&rdquo; You see?

The simple fact was said, &ldquo;I Am. You Are.&rdquo;&mdash;an
acknowledgment of simplicity, an acknowledgment you could say, without
any shadow figures brought into play.

Now, one of the best examples of the meaning of shadow figures that I
can share with you was a series of pictures on the cover of a magazine.
In the first picture there&rsquo;s a man obviously at work and his boss
is berating him. So here we have employer/employee&mdash;boss/the one
subject to the boss. Those are shadow figures. Because the fact is, I
Am. You Are. You see? We Are. Not bosses, not employers, not superiors,
not inferiors.

But then in the next picture, we see the man who is obviously come home
at the end of day. So here&rsquo;s the inferior one arriving at home and
he is berating his wife. Wow, quite a switch. Now he&rsquo;s the
superior figure and she&rsquo;s the inferior. He&rsquo;s the one in
charge. She&rsquo;s the one to be submissive. How can he be two
different things?

Well, the next picture shows the mother shaking her finger at the little
boy&mdash;their son. And the little boy has tears in his eyes. You see?
And so here we have more shadow figures. The little boy&rsquo;s feelings
are hurt. He thinks she&rsquo;s talking to him, instead of talking to
her picture of him and exercising her superiority over him&mdash;the
shadow figure that he is in her mind&mdash;as a means of regaining her
composure after having suffered at the hand of the shadow figure that
she called her husband, and whom she gave a better superior position
than hers.

And then in the final picture, here&rsquo;s this little boy doing the
best he can with the situation and he&rsquo;s looking at this little
kitten &hellip; and he&rsquo;s shaking his finger at that little kitten.
You see?

In every single one of those frames, there&rsquo;s really only one thing
that could appropriately be said: &ldquo;I Am. You Are. I Am. You Are.
We are the holy Sons and Daughters of God. We are something quite Real.
We are something quite inviolable. We are something quite equal. We are
the presence of Love and our function is to be the presence of
Love.&rdquo;

Now, Waking up is becoming free of the shadow figures. It&rsquo;s that
simple. But in order to become free of the shadow figures, you have to
have some way of recognizing them and abandoning them.

As I&rsquo;ve said in the last few weeks, everyone is bouncing off of
responding to the image, the picture&mdash;the meanings that they have
given to others. And they are doing it from the image they have of
themselves.

&ldquo;Well, you know what? I have a college degree. I have a job that
pays very well that utilizes the skills that I have and the intelligence
that I have and I have arrived at a point where I am deserving of
respect.&rdquo;

There you go &hellip; you just created a shadow image.

All there really is, is this: &ldquo;I Am.&rdquo;

But you know what? This one who has defined himself as worthy of respect
can, during the day, if someone else comes up and is rude or insulting
to him, have hurt feelings.  And if he was put down in front of a lot of
people whom he has defined as &ldquo;respecters of himself&rdquo; he
could not only feel bad but he could feel righteously angry.

Now, what about these feelings?

They&rsquo;re all reactions to shadow images. They have absolutely
nothing to do with him: &ldquo;I Am.&rdquo; They have to do with his
image. They have to do with the shadow figure that he holds of himself.

And so this shadow figure of himself says to everyone else, &ldquo;Here
is the way you are going to treat me: You are no longer going to treat
me disrespectfully, you understand?&rdquo; And this image of himself
will teach the subservient images out there how to behave and treat him
with respect.

You see that all of this is pure fantasy. It&rsquo;s pure imagination.
And all the time this kind of relationship is going on, no connection is
actually being made. Everybody is learning how to behave &ldquo;by the
book.&rdquo;

You know, there was a joke that went around some time back where
somebody would say a number and everybody would laugh. And it turns out
that the number referred to a particular joke which everybody knew and
they knew that the number related to that joke so that when the number
was said, they would laugh. You see?

Well, if everybody is taught by everybody else how to behave
appropriately, how to respond to the shadow figure, how the shadow
figure that you are is supposed to respond to the shadow figure that I
am&hellip; then when the unreal message is expressed by the shadow
figure that is me, everybody else automatically responds appropriately
just like laughing at a number because it applies to a joke. Do you see
what I&rsquo;m saying?

I&rsquo;m saying that that doesn&rsquo;t constitute communication. It
doesn&rsquo;t constitute connection. It constitutes everybody responding
to numbers and concepts by rote, automatically. Because it&rsquo;s the
way it works. It&rsquo;s because it&rsquo;s the way it has to be.
It&rsquo;s because that&rsquo;s the only way you can have order in a
chaotic world. Or more truthfully, that&rsquo;s the only way you can
have harmony when you are behaving as though you don&rsquo;t know who
your Source is and you don&rsquo;t know who you really Are. That&rsquo;s
what it amounts to.

I hope everyone had an interesting time at least, this past week, in
paying attention to the occasions where you behaved like a shadow figure
or you expected others to behave according to the shadow figure you were
superimposing upon them, by holding them to a concept that you have
about them that&rsquo;s based upon their past behavior.

It&rsquo;s a very valuable lesson. It&rsquo;s a very disconcerting
lesson to learn. It&rsquo;s a disconcerting experience to have. Because
you begin to realize that perhaps there hasn&rsquo;t been nearly as much
of what is Real going on in your life as you thought. And of course, the
point is not to get hung up on that but to rather shift gears so that
you are connecting with what is Real more consistently and expressing
what is Real more consistently.

The only problem is, that as you find out that a lot of what
you&rsquo;ve been doing and a lot of your behavior has kept you in a
state of ignorance, staying there will not be as satisfying as it used
to be and so you could find life beginning to be depressing. Because
part of you will still try to make the old paradigm work and it
won&rsquo;t work because you know better. You can&rsquo;t make it work
like you used to because you have become clearer than you were.

And so you begin to see when you are using your mind, and your
associates, for the purpose of creating a false sense of harmony and
order without ever connecting with your fellowman. Part of what is
disturbing is the loneliness that you begin to feel. You say the number
of the joke and nobody laughs anymore&mdash;they always laughed before.
Your world isn&rsquo;t functioning like it used to. But the reason is
that you know that there&rsquo;s an alternative and you&rsquo;ve also
begun to see just exactly how you use shadow figures to keep you from
your fulfillment.

This is such a valuable step to find yourself on, because until
you&rsquo;re on this step you can&rsquo;t step out of, for lack of
better words, the orphanage.  You can&rsquo;t step out of your
orphanhood. You can&rsquo;t step into the fuller conscious experience of
Being as the Son or Daughter of God, which is the whole point.

Now, no matter how much you deny the existence of God, no matter how
much you deny your inheritance&mdash;your Birthright from the Father,
your Sonship or Daughtership&mdash;you still remain unalterably what God
created you to be. You remain unalterably not your own creator. And you
remain unalterably with a Birthright that can only be described as
whole&mdash;as fulfillment embodied infinitely, as perfection
experienced, as the conscious experience of the joy of recognizing
everything that you&rsquo;ve been looking at before and calling
&ldquo;the world,&rdquo; to be the Kingdom of Heaven, awesomely so.

So, no matter how wretched an orphan you have learned to present to the
world because that shadow image gets you the most, you have just been
fooling yourself. And you have been playing a charade that never ever
can become Real and never has, and actually has constituted a
forever-emptiness as long as you have been employing it, but which you
had fooled yourself into believing was actually fulfilling.

So we talked last week about the fact that as you begin to see the
truth, as soon as there begins to be glimmers of the light illuminating
how things really are and you begin to remember: &ldquo;Oh yes! How
could I have forgotten that? Yes! Yes!&rdquo; Then &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you will [each] learn to seek for, and ESTABLISH, conditions in
which this beauty can be seen.[^1]

The spark of holiness MUST be safe&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your holiness must be unalterably present.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; however hidden it may be, in every relationship.
</div>

In every relationship you have it&rsquo;s the Son and Daughter of God,
or the Sons and Daughters of God experiencing their Oneness.
Relationships are where the light of your Being meets the light of Being
in everyone else and everything else.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The spark of holiness MUST be safe, however hidden it may be, in every
relationship.
</div>

And that&rsquo;s all you&rsquo;re ever in &hellip; are relationships.
Whether it&rsquo;s the stars and the Big Dipper or the stars and the
Milky Way &hellip; you&rsquo;re in relationship. There is a
relationship, even if it&rsquo;s only how far you are physically from
it. It&rsquo;s measurable. There is something actual. It&rsquo;s more
than just distance, and more than just physical.

You are in relationship right now with absolutely everything that exists
whether you are conscious of it or not. And &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The spark of holiness MUST be safe, however hidden it may be, in every
relationship.
</div>

That means that your relationship with the stars and the Big Dipper are
a holy relationship.  It means that as far away as it seems to be, there
is a relationship that is dynamic, that is actual, and that is full of
the Meaning of God.

And this is why I keep saying that every single moment you&rsquo;re in,
and every single thing you&rsquo;re in relationship with, whether
it&rsquo;s a table or a plant or a fingernail, it is the provision on
the spot &hellip; right then and there for Waking up, because you can
dare to ask &ldquo;What is the more of what God is Being right there,
than what I&rsquo;m seeing? And what is the more,&rdquo; I&rsquo;m going
to add this: &ldquo;What is the more that God is Being right where I see
me than what I&rsquo;m currently experiencing?&rdquo; You can ask that
question because, again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The spark of holiness MUST be safe, however hidden it may be, in every
relationship. For the Creator of the one relationship has left no part
of it without Himself.
</div>

Now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is the ONLY part of the relationship the Holy Spirit sees &hellip;
</div>

Remember, the Holy Spirit is that which will illuminate&mdash;bring the
Light to and uncover the holiness of you and the holiness of that which
you&rsquo;re in relationship with. It is the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s intent
to illuminate the holiness of Being&mdash;yours and everything else.
It&rsquo;s the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s purpose to reveal to you the truth
that you have forgotten because you were making up your own definitions
and giving preferences to them. You see?

So the part of the one relationship which the Father didn&rsquo;t leave
Himself out of is &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the ONLY part of the relationship the Holy Spirit sees because
He knows that ONLY this is true. You have made the relationship unreal,
and therefore unholy, by seeing it WHERE it is not and AS it is not.
</div>

&ldquo;Well, I&rsquo;m the one to give the orders and you&rsquo;re the
one to take them! And I&rsquo;m the one to be respected and you&rsquo;re
the one to respect me!&rdquo;

That&rsquo;s how you made the relationship unreal. You turned yourself
and the other into something more than, &ldquo;I Am. You
Are.&rdquo;&mdash;the simplicity of Presence. You made of the simplicity
of Presence something unreal by embellishing it and saying,
&ldquo;I&rsquo;m in charge of you and you must do what I say. I&rsquo;ve
done more to deserve respect than you have, so for right now until you
do more that causes me to respect you, you respect me!&rdquo; You see?

Your shadow image of yourself addresses your shadow image of them. And
you tell their shadow image of themselves to honor the shadow image in
you. You see? And you all train each other how to be these perfect
shadow figures. [chuckles] You all teach each other how to be utterly
artificial. And then you wonder at the niggling uneasiness in you that
in one way or another is trying to say, &ldquo;There is another way to
look at this.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Give the past to Him Who can change your mind about it FOR you.
</div>

&hellip; meaning the Holy Spirit.

Now, to see the integrity of all of this, what would give the Holy
Spirit the authority to change your mind about it for you? And under
what circumstance could you dare to trust into letting the Holy Spirit
change your mind about it for you?

Well, it&rsquo;s the fact that the Holy Spirit is nothing more than your
right Mind. It&rsquo;s You, at the bottom line. It&rsquo;s that of You
which you&rsquo;re ignoring while you choose to play at being an ego.
It&rsquo;s that simple. So you can dare to let the Holy Spirit change
your mind for you, because you&rsquo;re letting your innate
forever-integrity teach you how not to be insane anymore. And there is
no one better able to teach you your sanity than That of You which is
sane. That is what you would want to rely on. That would be truly the
only safe thing to rely upon, to lean into, to entrust yourself to.
Because you know that if you are entrusting yourself to That of You
which is the absolute integrity of your Being, well, that&rsquo;s the
only thing you could dare to commit yourself to&mdash;entrusting
yourself to.

That is the wonder of the teaching of the Course.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Give the past to Him &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; why does it say give the past to Him? Because your relating to
the shadow figures of yourself and your fellowman and of
Creation&mdash;is you relating to things that your Brother has done in
the past and things that you have done in the past, things that seem to
provide you and your life with meaning.

I say that because what doesn&rsquo;t provide meaning to you and your
life is such a simple thing as, &ldquo;I Am. You Are.&rdquo;

&ldquo;It&rsquo;s gotta be more than that!&rdquo; But that&rsquo;s the
only thing available in the present moment &hellip; in the present
moment &hellip; in the present moment.

Anything else has to be embellished by memory. And that&rsquo;s how you
keep yourself from Waking up. That&rsquo;s how you keep yourself from
experiencing your innocence and your perfection. You drag the past into
the present moment and heap it on your shoulders and bear yourself down
with it, and bury yourself under it. And you do the same thing with your
fellowman. And you do this because you think that it&rsquo;s the only
kind of conscious ordering that will constitute orderliness and save you
from chaos, chaos that you think awaits you for only one reason, that
reason being, that you said, &ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;d rather see it my
way. I&rsquo;d rather not see it as it truly is. I&rsquo;d rather be
crazy for awhile. I&rsquo;d rather function in my imagination for
awhile, even though it&rsquo;s a dangerous thing to do because I will
not be connected with Reality in a way that allows me to fit in with It
and feel Its support and feel my perfection within the perfection of
everything that I&rsquo;m allowing myself to fit in with.&rdquo; You
see?

So you use the past to block the experience of your perfection in the
present.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have made the relationship unreal, and therefore unholy, by seeing
it WHERE it is not and AS it is not. Give the past to Him Who can change
your mind about it FOR you.
</div>

Dependably and without risking anything.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
But first, be sure you fully realize what YOU have made the past to
represent, and why.

In brief, the past is now your justification for entering into a
continuing, unholy alliance with the ego AGAINST the present. For the
present IS forgiveness. Therefore, the relationships which the unholy
alliance dictates are not perceived nor felt as NOW.
</div>

It&rsquo;s sort of like you&rsquo;re working out the past together. You
get together and instead of playing cards, you work on the past. And
you&rsquo;re working with selves that aren&rsquo;t now. You&rsquo;re
working with selves that the past created, so that the moment
you&rsquo;re in is the crowning pinnacle glory of the past which will be
replaced in the next moment by the crowning pinnacle glory of the past
&hellip; so that always it&rsquo;s the &ldquo;past you&rdquo; relating
to the &ldquo;past other.&rdquo;

Now, I&rsquo;m not speaking too nebulously. I&rsquo;m speaking very
clearly. And the clarity of what I&rsquo;m sharing is uncovering the
nebulousness of the way you&rsquo;ve been behaving and the way
you&rsquo;ve been experiencing things, and feeling that your experience
was valid and intelligent.

So let&rsquo;s continue:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Therefore, the relationships which the unholy alliance dictates are not
perceived nor felt as NOW. Yet the frame of reference to which the
present is referred for meaning &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning the past &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is an ILLUSION of the past&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; it gets even more nebulous, doesn&rsquo;t it. It&rsquo;s not an
actual past, it&rsquo;s an illusion of the past. So you&rsquo;ve got
illusions built on illusions.

Now it doesn&rsquo;t hurt to see this because you have the answer.
We&rsquo;ve been talking about the answer long enough so that what
we&rsquo;re talking about now cannot throw you for a loop or make you
feel crazy. Because although you are learning of the craziness of how
you have been perceiving, you&rsquo;re learning it after the
fact&mdash;you&rsquo;re learning it after the fact of my having shared
with you that all you need to do is engage in the two-step and practice
the holy instant.

The answer &hellip; no matter how complicated and convoluted and crazy
the things are that we&rsquo;re talking about, they can be stepped out
of, released, let go of by a simple practice of shutting up. Shutting up
what? Well, thinking and the rehearsing of shadow figures&mdash;yours
and that of others&mdash;and in the silence saying one thing,
&ldquo;Father, what is the truth here?&rdquo; And then remaining silent
and listening for the infilling that will come because you are the holy
Son or Daughter of God&mdash;it will come because of what you really
Are.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[Yet] the frame of reference to which the present is referred for
meaning is an ILLUSION of the past, in which those elements which fit
the purpose of the unholy alliance are retained and all the rest let go.
</div>

In other words, the shadow figure that you have determined yourself to
be, you have valued and retained it and you have let go of the
truth&mdash;that you are the holy Son or Daughter of God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And what is thus let go is all the truth the past could ever offer to
the present as witnesses for its reality, while what is kept but
witnesses to the reality of dreams.
</div>

This is why selective remembering is essential, so that what is Real is
retained and what is not, is let go of. So that now, you could say, you
are left with a past with areas of what is Real and holes where the
unreal seem to be that you&rsquo;ve let go of, that have been abandoned.
And the fact is, that with the, we&rsquo;ll call them, islands of
Reality, islands of what is true about you and what you have been and
what is true about the love that has been expressed, given to you, the
fact that that is the only thing confronting you [snaps fingers] causes
the light bulb to go on, because there is nothing to distract you from
the reappearing of what is Real and what was always Real in what are now
holes where your shadow images used to be.

And so [snaps fingers] you Awaken wholly, totally, instantly. Your right
Mind is returned to you. And that&rsquo;s the point.

Now:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is still up to you to choose to be willing to join with truth or
illusion. But remember that to choose ONE is to let the other GO. Which
one you choose&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and this may be a little confusing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Which one you choose, you will endow with beauty and reality because the
choice DEPENDS on which you value more.
</div>

Whichever one you value more, whether it is truth or illusion, you will
embellish with everything that makes it attractive to you. So even if
you choose illusion, which is unreality and cannot actually be
beautiful, you will beautify.  You will and you have. And you&rsquo;ve
made it seem worth holding onto, never having brought yourself to the
point where you would say, &ldquo;Wait a minute! Stop! . . Father, or
any greater power that Is, If you exist, will you tell me whether I am
seeing things truly or whether what I am seeing is illusory.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The spark of beauty or the veil of ugliness, the real world or the world
of guilt and fear, truth or illusion, freedom or slavery, &ndash; it is
all the same.
</div>

There&rsquo;s a fine distinction that&rsquo;s being made here. If you
are in the orphanage and you are trying to make a choice between being a
&ldquo;good boy&rdquo; or a &ldquo;bad boy,&rdquo; an intelligent person
or a drag on the goings on of the orphanage, if you are choosing for
expressing beauty or creating messes in the orphanage it&rsquo;s all the
same, whether you&rsquo;re choosing for what seems to be good or
choosing for what seems to be bad. It&rsquo;s all the same, because the
choice is being made in the orphanage.

Now, the next sentence says:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For you can never choose EXCEPT between God and the ego.
</div>

Well, what does that mean? In this context it means, whether
you&rsquo;re choosing for the orphanage or leaving the orphanage.
It&rsquo;s not for choosing to be better or worse in the orphanage.
That&rsquo;s not a choice. That&rsquo;s the same-old, same-old, with new
words draped around it. And perhaps, some new created behaviors draped
around it. But it&rsquo;s still all orphan behavior. It&rsquo;s all
still going on in orphan-land. So therefore, those aren&rsquo;t actual
choices, because there aren&rsquo;t two things to choose between.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[For] you can never choose EXCEPT between God and the ego.
</div>

You can never choose except between being in the orphanage or abandoning
the divorce you got from your Father. That&rsquo;s what it means.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Thought systems are but true or false, and all their attributes come
simply from what they ARE. Only the Thoughts of God are true. And all
that follows from Them comes from what They are, and is as true as is
the holy Source from which They came.
</div>

Difficult to understand? Well, only if you don&rsquo;t know where they
fit. What it&rsquo;s saying is, that when you&rsquo;re choosing to think
for yourself, reason for yourself, function independently, you&rsquo;re
lost. But when you say, (after having shut up you&rsquo;re thinking)
&ldquo;Father, what is the truth here?&rdquo; and you inquire of your
Source what is the truth about everything and about you, then as
we&rsquo;ve said before, you move into the arena where God&rsquo;s laws
prevail, where your sanity can return to you as one glorious
&ldquo;Ah-ha!&rdquo; or illumination.

Nothing else matters. It&rsquo;s very black and white. Either you can
continue to think for yourself and solve your problems as an orphan, or
you can say, &ldquo;Father, fill me with all Thou Art. Fill me with the
conscious experience of the Kingdom of Heaven that You are Being right
now and forever.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Only the Thoughts of God are true.
</div>

Well, if only the thoughts of God are true, then ask God what His
thoughts are and don&rsquo;t waste your time thinking your own.
I&rsquo;m not scolding you. I&rsquo;m just saying the utterly simple
truth emphatically.

Now:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
My holy brothers, I would enter into all your relationships, and step
between you and your fantasies. Let MY relationship to you be real to
you&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; don&rsquo;t let me be a shadow figure &hellip; someone you read
about, who walked the globe two thousand years ago, and did things that
you can inspire yourselves with. Let me in, as Paul is doing at this
moment for himself. Let me in to you for yourselves. Because this is the
way you get over the hump of abandoning the habit of authoritative
mental gymnastics called, &ldquo;thinking and reasoning.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Let MY relationship to you be real to you, and let me bring reality to
your perception of your brothers.

&hellip; to your perception of your brothers.
</div>

Let me undo the shadow images about your Brothers that you have created
in your mind and held them to and punished them for &hellip; and perhaps
praised them as well when it suited you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
They were not created to enable you to hurt yourselves through them.
</div>

That isn&rsquo;t what you were all created for&mdash;to use each other
in that way. You were created and you are Being &hellip; you find
yourself Being &hellip; you find yourself at a loss for words, any words
other than: I Am. You Are.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
They &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; everything that you would be in relationships with &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; were created to CREATE with you.
</div>

See, that&rsquo;s where you fit in. That&rsquo;s where everything fits
together.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is the truth that I would interpose between you and your goal of
madness.
</div>

Your goal of madness being, that you want to busy yourself creating
shadow images and refurbishing your own &hellip; always yours, in your
best interest, but not always your Brothers, in his best interest.
Mostly you work on your Brothers to refurbish yours. But it&rsquo;s
understandable why you do that, when you&rsquo;ve denied your Source,
when you&rsquo;ve said, &ldquo;I have no Source except my own
imagination,&rdquo; you are at a loss, you&rsquo;re in a void &hellip;
you&rsquo;re in a place where there is nothing to validate you. And so
you&rsquo;re bound to engage only in activities which in one way or
another do validate you.

Now again, we&rsquo;re talking in the orphanage, where you&rsquo;re
being a bad boy trying to become a good boy and saying,
&ldquo;It&rsquo;s a good thing for me to want to become a good boy. Hey
everybody, do you see I&rsquo;m working to become a good boy? Do you see
that? Doesn&rsquo;t it make you happy? Isn&rsquo;t that good? Tell me
I&rsquo;m on the right track.&rdquo; You see?

But that&rsquo;s not any answer. It keeps everything in fantasy. The
call is to step out of the orphanage. The step is then to abandoning the
claim to orphanhood, another way of saying to abandon the claim to
independence. That&rsquo;s the simple bottom line fact of it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Be not separate from me&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; this moment, the next moment, tomorrow, a week from now or
don&rsquo;t be separate from your Guide because we&rsquo;re all the
Christ, accept those who function as your Guides, like the Holy Spirit
are Awake and perform the same function that the Holy Spirit does.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Be not separate from me&hellip;
</div>

I could say, be not separate from us &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and let not the holy purpose of Atonement be lost to you in
dreams of vengeance.
</div>

In other words, in the miserable state of affairs that call for justice
constantly when you&rsquo;re operating in the land of shadow figures.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Relationships in which such dreams are cherished have EXCLUDED me.
</div>

They have excluded the Holy Spirit. They have excluded your own Guides.
They have excluded God. They have excluded all the things that are Real
and that can point out the things that are Real and help you abandon the
things that are not, so that confusion vanishes in the clarity of the
ever Presence and only Presence of what is Real of what is Love of what
is truth, of what is God appearing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Let me &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; let the Holy Spirit, let your Guide &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; enter in the Name of God&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; not in the name of your shadow figures. But:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Let me enter in the Name of God&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in the Name of what&rsquo;s Real &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and bring you peace that you may offer peace to me.
</div>

That&rsquo;s a really simple way of describing the two-step and the
affects of the practice of the two-step. And it is my hope that as we
have been covering all of this, you have begun to feel uncomfortable
about continuing to function in the realm of shadow figures. Because in
one way or another, it has become clearer to you that doing so is a
miserable state of being that is not your Birthright. And that having an
inkling of what your Birthright is, you are willing to more diligently
than ever, abandon the use of shadow figures and lean into the Holy
Spirit or your Guide or me, so that we might reflect back to you that
which is true, and only that which is true in your
experience&mdash;which for the present, we will call your past. And we
will do that so you will become free of the past and be able to be
totally present in the now which is where your salvation is and which is
where Reality is.

I love you all. And I look forward to being with you next time.

[^1]: T17.3 Shadows of the Past

