---
title: May 22, 2011
ref: "T17.4 Perception and the Two Worlds"
alink: "/acim/text/17/chap1704/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

A new section:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*Perception and the Two Worlds*[^1]
</div>

Well, there can&rsquo;t really be two worlds, can there. There
can&rsquo;t be two of Creation. Creation is infinite, singular,
indivisible.

So, what is called the two worlds must be two different ways of
experiencing Creation. And indeed, as we&rsquo;ve been discussing, one
of them is the view or experience of Creation that is had in the holy
instant. And the other is when you view and experience
Creation&mdash;the Kingdom of Heaven&mdash;from a so-called independent
standpoint which you have created out of your imagination and which is
applied to absolutely every aspect of Creation, which is the Movement of
God.

One is utterly harmonious and the other is utterly chaotic,
uncomfortable, unhappy, full of suffering, together with an indomitable
will to overcome the suffering. Not by abandoning the
viewpoint&mdash;the vantage point&mdash;but by staying in it and getting
control of Creation yourself.

I&rsquo;m here again to stand with all of you with the sole purpose of
reinterpreting your perception of the Kingdom of Heaven which you are
entertaining from the vantage point of being an independent agent.
That&rsquo;s my function right now. That is the function of the Holy
Spirit right now. That is the function of your Guides right now.

Everything is geared to, or geared toward, your Waking up&mdash;your
coming back into your full capacity as that conscious awareness which is
inseparable from the Mind of God, which holds itself apart no longer,
thus allowing you to see Creation as the Father is Being It and
fulfilling your part in the co-creation of It. It&rsquo;s that simple.

Now we&rsquo;ve spent a lot of time talking about the special
relationship&mdash;the unholy relationship&mdash;because at the bottom
line, it is the most addictive human, I&rsquo;m going to say, non-divine
aspect of your mental makeup. It is the one most significant thing that
stands in the way of Awakening&mdash;of the return of sanity.

And so it&rsquo;s very important. And at the same time that you begin to
see how not only unproductive the special relationship is&mdash;but how
destructive it is&mdash;you will arrive at a point where although it
still seems like something worth hanging onto, you will be willing to
abandon it because you are beginning, through reason, to see that
everything associated with it is illusory and that it is keeping you in
a state of insanity. At the least it is keeping you in a state of the
inability to see truly. That is the definition of insanity, isn&rsquo;t
it?

It is absolutely necessary for you to arrive at a point where it is
reasonable enough to consider the fact that your independent assessment
of everything stands in opposition to your Being&mdash;stands in denial
of what you truly Are.

That realization, intellectual though it may be, is all it will really
take for you to arrive at a point of, let&rsquo;s say, deciding to
experiment or test out the possibility that it might truly make a
significant difference in your experience of Being, to abandon your
independent stance and join with the Holy Spirit&mdash;that which is
nothing more than your right Mind&mdash;or join with me or join with the
Father with the express desire of wanting all of your perceptions to
arise out of the inspiration that followed an invitation to the Holy
Spirit, me or the Father, to know what the truth is and to know it
without engaging your capacity to imagine &hellip; to invite it without
introducing any bias to what follows.

Because you want once and for all, to find out whether everything
I&rsquo;m talking about is true or crap!

It&rsquo;s not fun, really, to sit on the fence and indefinitely not
make up your mind but consider all the possibilities because it&rsquo;s
very stimulating and does cause a certain feeling of bliss or
inspiration that&rsquo;s much more interesting than just plain old
suffering.

Let&rsquo;s go into the book:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*Perception and the Two Worlds* 
</div>

or &hellip; 

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*The Two Pictures*
</div>

&hellip; depending upon which versions of the Course you&rsquo;re
reading.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God established His relationship with you to make you happy, and nothing
you do which does not share His purpose can be real.
</div>

Now isn&rsquo;t that amazing? With all of the power, you might say, with
the omnipotent Presence that God Is, it&rsquo;s amazing isn&rsquo;t it,
that a purpose would be established for relationships as simple as to be
happy. Not only that, the purpose that each thing that the Father has
created and has relationship with is also to make happy. In everything
that God&rsquo;s Creation does, the purpose is to make happy.

This is something which is very apparent to you in the holy instant when
you have relinquished your will and yielded to the Father with
undefended interest, undefended presence of mind.

Everyone loves to be happy. Everyone tolerates not being happy. Everyone
puts up with it because occasionally there are bright spots. But
it&rsquo;s important to know that the purpose of relationships is to
make happy &hellip; to be happy and nothing else.

Why? Because it simplifies the correction of all illusions. Absolutely
everyone understands what it means to be happy. Not everyone is inclined
to devote himself or herself to expressing that which makes happy.

Why? Because when one is imagining that he or she is an independent
agent&mdash;something which arose out of a physical action called
fertilization of an egg by a sperm&mdash;everything you engage in is, at
the bottom line, for self-protection.  Therefore, if at any point you do
engage in making happy, it&rsquo;s only because the making happy of
someone will protect you. And not out of any actual gift of caring.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God established His relationship with you to make you happy, and nothing
you do which does not share His purpose can be real. The purpose God
ascribed to anything &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning anything that He created &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The purpose God ascribed to anything is its only function.  is its only
function.
</div>

What does that mean? It means that you as His Creation are already
whole. And you need do nothing to embellish it. You need do nothing to
improve it. You can dare to peacefully and willingly abide in the
wholeness of you, in the wholeness of your Being, which is imbued with
happiness because of the way in which it was created.

Paul: I&rsquo;m sorry I lost it &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Because of His reason for creating His relationship with you, the
function of relationships became forever "to make happy." AND NOTHING
ELSE.
</div>

If you abide in that without trying to add anything to it, without
trying to make it different in any way, you will find yourself coming
back into the conscious experience of your already created wholeness and
your already existing capacity to experience all of Creation
simultaneously, fully, without conflict, without suffering, without
sorrow &hellip; but with happiness.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To fulfill this function, you relate to your creations as God to His.
</div>

That&rsquo;s to fulfill His function. Of course, you&rsquo;re not
fulfilling it because you&rsquo;re engaged in the practice of special
relationships for the purpose of self-protection&mdash;self
preservation. Because you don&rsquo;t have available to you at the
moment, the full conscious experience of your wholeness in which the
universal is all of you, where the oneness of your Being is inseparable
from the oneness of all that Is.  Not as just an idea, but as a
conscious experience&mdash;a conscious experience of peace, a conscious
experience of perfect safety, a conscious experience of
happiness&mdash;which flows from you and is received by all &hellip; and
flows from all and is received by you.

Now, let&rsquo;s make this practical. This experience I&rsquo;m talking
about is an experience to be had right here, right now in what you call
a material world and universe. This happiness is to be experienced by
all mankind, by all countries. It will find itself expressed
uninhibitedly in what you call politics or what you could call, infinite
cooperation. Not infinite in (-) fighting and jealousy and trying to get
the better of a situation at someone else&rsquo;s disadvantage for
greater self-protection. It&rsquo;s to be experienced here.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To fulfill this function, you relate to your creations as God to His.
For nothing God created is apart from happiness, and nothing God created
but would EXTEND happiness as its Creator did. Whatever fulfills this
function not CANNOT be real.
</div>

Well, you are all having the experience of what fulfills that function
&hellip; not. The stress, the strain, the tension, the fighting, the
arguing, the getting the best of each other that is going on in your
world all demonstrate the fact that extending happiness is not what
everyone is engaged in. It&rsquo;s also very clear that the reason
it&rsquo;s not being engaged in is because everyone feels threatened.

And why does everyone feel threatened? Because everyone knows that
everyone else wants to get the best of him or wants to get the best of
her. Everyone knows that the motive is not happiness.  And so,
self-protection is in full-swing.

So what does this mean? You know, we&rsquo;re talking about this
wonderful thing called, &ldquo;the two-step&rdquo; and &ldquo;the
practice of the holy instant,&rdquo; moving into that place where
God&rsquo;s laws prevail. And you do think of it as a mental space, a
mental place to move into where God&rsquo;s laws prevail.

But here&rsquo;s the thing: God&rsquo;s laws prevailing will be manifest
on your globe. God&rsquo;s laws prevailing will manifest as cancer
disappearing &hellip; as illness, sin, disease, death disappearing,
being replaced by that which obviously makes happy and is happy.

Mind you, it&rsquo;s got to happen here and now in your current
perception of the Kingdom of Heaven, in the world you are presently
experiencing.

Remember, Waking up is going to be you experiencing the Kingdom of
Heaven clearly. And experiencing the Kingdom of Heaven clearly is going
to mean your current perception of the world is going to become
radically and clearly the evidence of God Being right now, in other
words, the Kingdom of Heaven.

What does this mean? It means that the practice of the holy instant and
the practice of the two-step is something that applies to relationships
between you and your fellowman right here on earth, between your country
and another country right here on earth, between all of the nations on
the globe, where a shift, because effort has been put into it, takes
place and everyone begins to do that which makes happy and therefore,
begins to reflect God&rsquo;s Purpose and the way God has made it all.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In this world, it is impossible to create.
</div>

What world? The world of the orphanage, in the world of independent
authorship and independent agents and individualities with a will, who
can by the exercise of their will, actually make things, create things
and govern and control them well. That&rsquo;s not a Real world,
that&rsquo;s a misunderstanding of Self and the Kingdom of Heaven.
It&rsquo;s a misunderstanding of the holy Son of God, the holy Daughter
of God that you Are and the Kingdom of Heaven.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In this world, it is impossible to create. Yet it is possible to make
happy.
</div>

Why? How could that be? Because no matter how you are interpreting what
you Are, no matter what kind of a shadow image you are creating for
yourself about yourself, you can&rsquo;t stop being the Son or Daughter
of God. You cannot alter what you Are divinely in any way. And so this
Son or Daughter of God that you Are acts and the action is something far
beyond the limited perceptions you are applying to it. In other words,
the acts of the Sons and Daughters of God are acts of infinite love. But
if you, believing that you are an independent agent who is vulnerable,
who needs to protect himself, then that very act which is a divine act
of infinite love, will be interpreted to be an effort to control another
independent agent and there will be no love in it. And it will be usury
and it will be to the disadvantage of both you and the one this
misinterpreted act is being applied to.

Now:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In this world, it is impossible to create. Yet it is possible to make
happy. We have said, repeatedly, that the Holy Spirit would not DEPRIVE
you of your special relationships, but would TRANSFORM them.
</div>

Why wouldn&rsquo;t the Holy Spirit deprive you of your special
relationships? Because any relationship that you&rsquo;re in, the Son or
Daughter of God that you Are no matter what you believe you are, is a
holy relationship&mdash;one that you need not be deprived of. You
don&rsquo;t need to be deprived of the relationship, you need to be
deprived of the misinterpretation of the relationship. And that&rsquo;s
why the Holy Spirit would not deprive you of your special relationships
(which is a simple misinterpretation of a holy one) but would transform
them, uncover to you, reveal to you the holy relationship that it really
is beyond the very specific finite mean-spirited definitions you have
applied to it because of the mean-spirited purpose you had in mind for
engaging in that act, which would be to your benefit and not to the
others. You see?

And so the more of what God is Being there in this act of the holy Son
or Daughter of God, will still occur but you won&rsquo;t be conscious of
it. But it will be there for the Holy Spirit to illuminate to you. And
when you finally stop attempting to willfully be in charge, you will
find yourself fully experiencing the acts of Creation that the holy Son
or Daughter of God that you Are has been engaged in all the while that
you thought you were some piss-ant little mortal becoming something and
protecting himself or herself in the process. You see?  Now I&rsquo;m
going to read it again:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
We have said, repeatedly, that the Holy Spirit would not DEPRIVE you of
your special relationships, but would TRANSFORM them. And by that all
that is meant is that He will restore to them the function given them by
God.
</div>

The holy Son or Daughter of God, in a demented sort of way, moves and
acts and does things that aren&rsquo;t really being done. He protects
himself so that a vulnerability that doesn&rsquo;t exist won&rsquo;t be
experienced by him because of how well he&rsquo;s protected himself. You
see, the fact is that in that action nothing is being done, because
there&rsquo;s no protection that&rsquo;s needed and it&rsquo;s an act of
an insane mind seeing danger where there is none at all.

Those who are not caught in the dream, observing the Son or Daughter of
God behaving in this self-protective way, can see that the problem that
that one is trying to solve by defense doesn&rsquo;t exist. And that the
effort that is being put forth by that holy Son or Daughter of God is
meaningless because there&rsquo;s no call for it. And they know that the
time will come when that Son or Daughter of God will abandon his
commitment to his independence and will come into the full awareness of
what&rsquo;s really been happening&mdash;the Kingdom of Heaven, the Son
or Daughter of God being uninterruptedly the Son or Daughter of God, not
having lost his or her Birthright. It&rsquo;s that simple.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The function you have given them is clearly NOT to make happy. But the
holy relationship shares God's purpose, rather than aiming to make a
substitute for it.
</div>

Key thing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the holy relationship shares God's purpose, rather than aiming
to make a substitute for it.
</div>

The special relationship aims to make a substitute for God&rsquo;s
purpose, because God has been put on the back shelf&mdash;out of sight,
out of mind. And so the substitute for God&rsquo;s purpose is a purpose
in opposition to God as well as being one that obscures God and
distracts you from remembering that there&rsquo;s another way to look at
this &hellip; with God &hellip; and in possession of your full
Birthright.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Every special relationship which YOU have made is a substitute for God's
Will, and glorifies yours instead of His because of the delusion that
they are DIFFERENT.
</div>

You see? You think that God has given you a capacity to be His Offspring
independent of God. And that therefore, that it&rsquo;s your task and
your duty and your God given ability to express your will without ever
coordinating or cooperating with the Father, without ever bothering to
find out whether there is something beyond your imagination for you to
fit in with&mdash;something infinitely stable, something infinitely
secure&mdash;that it&rsquo;s your Birthright to function within the
structure of truth and love, the structure of divine Principle. You see?

And so you think that you have a will different from the Father&rsquo;s.
And you think that it&rsquo;s supposed to be different from the
Father&rsquo;s. And so you plow forward in the attempt to actualize
that. And all relationships that arise within that context are special
relationships&mdash;the thing that we&rsquo;re all learning to let go
of, to stop valuing, to stop reenergizing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have made very real relationships even in this world which you do
not recognize, simply because you have raised their substitutes to such
predominance that, when truth calls to you, as it does constantly, you
answer with a substitute.
</div>

Okay, let&rsquo;s go back:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have made very real relationships &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that means divinely actual. As a holy Son or Daughter of God
you have been relating with other holy Sons or Daughters of God no
matter what the shadow figures are that have been superimposed upon them
by you &hellip; and upon you by you &hellip; and upon you by them
&hellip; and upon them by them. You see?

You just can&rsquo;t get away from the fact that you are the holy Sons
or Daughters of God right now. And no matter how you obscure that
through the use of shadow figures, it doesn&rsquo;t change anything. So
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have made very real relationships even in this world which you do
not recognize&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you don&rsquo;t recognize because you are superimposing shadow
figures&mdash;your own peculiar unique definitions, and the purposes you
have assigned to everything, all relative to your need for
self-protection. So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have made very real relationships even in this world which you do
not recognize, simply because you have raised their substitutes &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the shadow images&mdash;your meanings, your definition, your
concepts &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; to such predominance that, when truth calls to you&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in other words, the divine actuality of all of these
relationships &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; as it does constantly, you answer with a substitute.
</div>

&ldquo;You, who are what I say you are.&rdquo; Here is the answer, here
is the appropriate response. &ldquo;My response is to who I say you are,
and I will not let you off the hook, you are who I say you are until you
teach me different. And I will only allow you to teach me something
different as long as it still serves me and my safety&mdash;my
self-protection.&rdquo; You see?

Can I make it any clearer than this? Right here in this room are holy
Sons and Daughters of God, nothing more and nothing less. And everyone
who is watching at this moment, or everyone who is listening at this
moment are holy Sons or Daughters of God. All of us holy Sons and
Daughters of God are in relationship with each other right now, right in
the middle of the Kingdom of Heaven, having this insane distraction of
peculiar and unique definitions that you have all agreed to apply to
everything you&rsquo;re experiencing which obscures the Kingdom of
Heaven and the holy Sons and Daughters of God that you Are.

Why is this important? Because the fact that you are presently the Sons
and Daughters of God means, you do not have to work toward becoming
Them. You do not have to go through a process of self-improvement. You
do not have to go through a process of training your mind so that it
becomes worthy of discerning the truth.

All it requires is a willingness to consider, &ldquo;Maybe this is true.
Maybe it&rsquo;s worth while for me to abandon all of the definitions
I&rsquo;ve been applying to everything and genuinely expressing
curiosity, &lsquo;Father, what is the truth here? Father, what is the
more of what you are being right here? Father, help me to see the Sons
and Daughters of God that are all around me. And help me know that I
(the one who is seeing Them) is also a Son or Daughter of God. Help me
abandon some contentious process of getting from one world to the other.
Let me just be curious. Help me, I&rsquo;m tired of suffering. I&rsquo;m
tired to see what obviously isn&rsquo;t the Kingdom of Heaven. I&rsquo;m
tired of being confronted with other people&rsquo;s poor estimates of
me. And I&rsquo;m almost tired of impressing others with my poor
estimate of them. I&rsquo;m almost tired of it &hellip; it&rsquo;s just
that it still seems to have some value. Help me go ahead and let
go.&rsquo;&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Every special relationship which you have ever undertaken has, as its
fundamental purpose, the aim of occupying your minds so completely that
you will not HEAR the call of truth.
</div>

In other words, you will not experience even a glimmer, a hint of the
divinity of the one you&rsquo;re in relationship with. Their divinity
won&rsquo;t even creep through any weak chinks in the shadow figure
you&rsquo;re imposing upon them and holding them to in your mind, and
absolutely sure of, yourself.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In a sense, the special relationship was the ego's answer to the
creation of the Holy Spirit, Who was God's answer to the separation.
</div>

When you said, &ldquo;But, Father, I&rsquo;d rather do it myself
&hellip; but, Father, I&rsquo;d rather see it myself &hellip; but,
Father, I&rsquo;d rather define what everything is,&rdquo; . . and you
made commitment to it&mdash;you joined another Son or Daughter of God in
mutual agreement to abandon your remembrance of your inseparability from
God&mdash;you caused that which you divinely Are to become unavailable
to you consciously. And so it was held in trust and called the Holy
Spirit. It&rsquo;s that simple.

It was there &hellip; not allowed to disappear &hellip; not allowed to
be lost by God, so that you would have the means of experiencing
healing, so that you would not be lost forever, but actually forever
securely tethered to an inevitable re-Awakening. It&rsquo;s that simple.
That was God&rsquo;s answer to the separation.

Now the ego&rsquo;s answer to the creation of the Holy Spirit was to
create a special relationship&mdash;a relationship in which you could
forever spend your time and energy securing yourself as an independent
agent and securing it without terminal threat, we&rsquo;ll put it that
way.

In other words, the ego&rsquo;s answer to the creation of the Holy
Spirit, which was the Father&rsquo;s answer to the separation, was to
cause you to become so preoccupied with self and self-protection and
self-development that you couldn&rsquo;t possibly have enough attention
left over to hear the Holy Spirit&mdash;which is the Father&rsquo;s
answer to the separation.

So special relationships have as their goal your blindness to your
salvation, your blindness to coming back into your right Mind. And this
is why it is so important to understand the nature of special
relationships, so you can see how unattractive they are and how
destructive they are, so that you find yourself having justification for
practicing the holy instant and reuniting with your Source, by reaching
out to It and abandoning your supposed capacity to function autonomously
successfully.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In a sense, the special relationship was the ego's answer to the
creation of the Holy Spirit, Who was God's answer to the separation. For
although the ego did not understand what had been created&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; it WAS aware of threat.

The whole defense system which the ego evolved to protect the separation
from the Holy Spirit was in response to the gift with which God blessed
it, and by His blessing enabled it to be healed.
</div>

Again:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The whole defense system &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the whole ball of wax of special relationships.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The whole defense system which the ego evolved to protect the separation
from the Holy Spirit was in response to the gift with which God blessed
it&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; God blessed the separation, by providing the Holy Spirit as the
forever anchor to your sanity, which means that you will inevitably come
back into your full right Mind &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and by His blessing &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; by God&rsquo;s blessing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; enabled it to be healed.
</div>

Enabled the separation to be healed. You see?

No matter how enamored you are with special relationships, no matter how
devoted you are to being utterly clear in your mind as an orphan, and no
matter how skilled you become at manipulating people for your safety,
all of which blinds you to your healing of the separation, God&rsquo;s
gift stands immoveable. And this means that you in your ignorance stand
in the midst of an infinite eternal intent for you to come back into
your right Mind. Now that&rsquo;s incredible love. That is an incredible
intent to make happy.

And what is required of you is to abandon your self-protection and your
defense and replace it with the intent to make happy in every
relationship you experience everyday. And you know what? It&rsquo;s
going to take commitment to do it. And it&rsquo;s going to take actually
doing it. And that&rsquo;s the task. That&rsquo;s the purpose that
stands in front of you to be actualized.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This blessing holds&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the gift of the Holy Spirit, which the Father made.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This blessing holds, within ITSELF, the truth about everything. And the
truth is that the Holy Spirit is in close relationship with you &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; after all it&rsquo;s nothing more than your right Mind &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; because, in Him, is your relationship with God restored to you.
The relationship with Him has NEVER been broken, because the Holy Spirit
has not been separate from anyone since the separation. And through Him
have all your holy relationships been carefully preserved, to serve
God's purpose for you.
</div>

The Holy Spirit&mdash;that which is nothing more than your right
Mind&mdash;has held every act that you as the Son or Daughter of God
have engaged in that is an expression of your divine purpose, has held
it inviolably unchanged from it&rsquo;s Real nature. And all of it
awaits your rediscovery as you decided to stop claiming to be tiny,
mortal, on your way to the grave.

We are at a threshold here&mdash;a threshold which will not necessitate
our continuing to study through to the end of the book. I assure you
that there&rsquo;s no necessity of delay or process. But you do need to
arrive at a point where you&rsquo;re willing to consider that everything
you&rsquo;re experiencing at the moment is delusional. Why? Because if
you&rsquo;re honest, you will tell me that it is not making you happy.
You are not made happy in your relationships. And you are not making
happy in your relationships. And you know that isn&rsquo;t your primary
goal except with a few&mdash;favored few.

Otherwise, you&rsquo;re careful, you&rsquo;re on the defense,
you&rsquo;re making sure no one gyps you out of anything and you are
sure that if you&rsquo;re not on guard you will be taken advantage of.
That picture you&rsquo;re entertaining says you do not see yourself in a
world whose aim it is to make you happy. And you can see that as long as
you&rsquo;re entertaining these shadow images about your world,
you&rsquo;re not about to become undefendedly willing to make happy your
world.

So you&rsquo;re in a &ldquo;catch 22&rdquo; or you&rsquo;re not. Maybe
you&rsquo;re not. Maybe all you have to do is practice the two-step.
Maybe all you have to do is to shut up the mind that you&rsquo;re using
to create shadow images and in the silence inquire of your Father,
&ldquo;What is the truth? What is the truth here? Help me to learn how
to make happy, not as a means of self-protection, but as a shear
expression of love. Help me participate in being the leaven that leavens
the whole lump, that transforms the world not by force or control but by
neglecting to hold all of it or any part of it within the confines of a
special relationship.&rdquo;

I love you all. And this is a wonderful point of growth. It&rsquo;s a
wonderful threshold to be at the edge of. I encourage you not to be
afraid of it. I encourage you to embrace it. And I encourage you to
abandon yourself to it.

Okay.

[^1]: T17.4 Perception and the Two Worlds

