---
title: Jun 4, 2011
ref: T17.4 Perception and the Two Worlds
alink: "/acim/text/17/chap1704/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

You can&rsquo;t deny the fact that as we&rsquo;ve been going along,
things have been becoming simpler and simpler. We could say things are
becoming more black and white&mdash;less fuzzy.

This should be relieving. This should be joy-producing. But although
there is some of that experienced, a lot of the experience is distress,
because at the bottom line, it requires abandoning things that you have
greatly valued. It requires letting go of things you feel have provided
you with security. But at the bottom line, the things you are being
required to let go of are illusions of security, illusions of
importance, illusions of integrity, illusions of success.

Now I have said endlessly, that all of you are sitting in the middle of
the Kingdom of Heaven, right here, right now, with your eyes all
squinched up saying, &ldquo;I cannot see the perfection.&rdquo;
You&rsquo;re sitting in the middle of the Kingdom of Heaven and
you&rsquo;re not experiencing It as what It is.

Now, I&rsquo;ve also been emphasizing, and the Course has been
elucidating the fact that every single one of you right now are Sons and
Daughters of God, nothing more, nothing less. But you&rsquo;re not
experiencing that either.

Now, why aren&rsquo;t you experiencing it?

You&rsquo;re not experiencing it because you&rsquo;re *programmed* not
to experience it, you are *conditioned* not to experience it.

Well, just try walking around all day and whoever you meet, you say
&ldquo;I am the Son of God, you are the Son of God, I am the Daughter of
God, you are the Daughter of God.&rdquo; See what kind of response you
get. That response of &ldquo;you crazy weirdo&rdquo; conditions you to
not see and not believe and not pursue a clearer understanding of the
fact that you are the Son of God or the Daughter of God.

Now, while you are all obedient to the limits you all impose upon each
other, and you do it for the sake of peace &hellip; what? &hellip;
you&rsquo;re miserable &hellip; you get sick &hellip; you get hurt
&hellip; you have failures &hellip; you suffer. You have a generally
miserable experience that you find ways to tolerate. You find ways to
overlook the fact that you&rsquo;re not happy.

Now, I can hear someone saying, &ldquo;Oh, he&rsquo;s on his pessimistic
bent again, do I have to listen to this?&rdquo;

Well you see, that&rsquo;s another one of the conditionings. You see? I
must tell you that you have been conditioned not to see the Kingdom of
Heaven. You have been conditioned not to experience yourself as the Son
or Daughter of God.  As&mdash;I&rsquo;m going to say this
carefully&mdash;Royalty, if you will, as that which is ultimately
meaningful, if you will.

Because if you don&rsquo;t get it, if something in you doesn&rsquo;t
actually say, &ldquo;Whoa, maybe I had better look at this again! Maybe
there is a different way of looking at this. Maybe I am conditioned to
not see something that is right in the front of my face. And on top of
that, as part of the conditioning, maybe there is a security lock, if
you will, that becomes especially potent in shutting down my curiosity
if I decide to look beyond my present sense of things&mdash;if I choose
to actually reach beyond my present measuring sticks. You see?

The ego&mdash;you pretending to be an independent agent, separate and
apart from a divine Source or a source other than a physical source
&hellip;

I&rsquo;m sorry, this is me, Paul, I lost it.

No, continuing &hellip; you are conditioned to be obedient to the
squelches, to the inhibitions that are encoded in your mutual
agreements. And if I do not tell you that you are thus conditioned, you
will find no occasion spontaneously on your own to challenge those
inhibitions.

And so I must absolutely be straight with you and apparently be
&ldquo;negative&rdquo; or cast doubt on the integrity of your life. I
MUST! Or you will not. And if you will not, you will not open the door
for a breakthrough, for &ldquo;ah-ha&rsquo;s&rdquo; to happen, for
realization to occur that comes from a Source outside of the mutual
agreements that you and all the orphans have come to.

Now I said things are becoming simpler. They are. It&rsquo;s becoming
clearer and clearer that you&rsquo;ve got to make a choice between the
orphan mindset and your divine Mind&mdash;your divine mindset. And if
you don&rsquo;t make a choice and if you don&rsquo;t reach, you will
seem to stay bound.

However, I must also be straight with you and point out to you that
where you may have for all of this lifetime and I&rsquo;m going to say
for many lifetimes, whereas you may have been able for a great period of
time to be ignorant by virtue of conditioning and be relatively
comfortable, things are changing and it is not going to continue to be
comfortable.

Many of you have had the experience of finding that if you get out of
line, you get called on the carpet much faster. You simply are not able
to be off track as long as you used to be able to. And a few of you
become self-righteously angry: &ldquo;It&rsquo;s not fair! Look at
so-in-so, they&rsquo;ve been off-track for quite awhile, just like I
used to be able to be &hellip; they&rsquo;re not getting caught up
short.&rdquo; You see? You see how you are conditioned to not embrace
intelligence but rather ignorance and reconfirm it.

Now, it isn&rsquo;t that you are doing this, it is that conditionings
have been placed in the mix, like hypnosis.

Now, I&rsquo;m here to share the good news: You are deluded and
it&rsquo;s not your Birthright and you are not bound to being deluded.
But you&rsquo;re not going to [snaps fingers] have the lights go on, and
you&rsquo;re not going to find the delight of Being and you&rsquo;re not
going to find the peace of Being as long as you continue to go down the
paths of habitual responses because it&rsquo;s always been done that way
and because it&rsquo;s the way that works.

Now part of the problem regarding being honest enough to look at the
situation so that it might be discredited &hellip;

Just a moment, I lost it again &hellip;

&hellip; is, that you must look at what you have believed is a
reasonable life with success and blessings and many good things and
realize that&mdash;and you&rsquo;re not going to like this&mdash;and
realize that it isn&rsquo;t true, that you are glossing over misery,
that you are glossing over endless sin, disease and death, lifetime
after lifetime, after lifetime or, let&rsquo;s say, in this lifetime
watching that pattern&mdash;birth, life, death, happen over and over
with everyone.

Now you have to be willing to look at this and say, &ldquo;NO!&rdquo;
You must be willing to look at this and say, &ldquo;This isn&rsquo;t
successful life! This isn&rsquo;t happy life!&rdquo; You must dare to be
willing to be honest enough to say that the things that are happening do
not make you happy. And that the only way you&rsquo;re able to find any
degree of happiness is by ignoring what you&rsquo;re seeing, by finding
a way to say, &ldquo;that&rsquo;s life,&rdquo; which means,
&ldquo;that&rsquo;s normal, that&rsquo;s okay.&rdquo; IT&rsquo;S NOT!

But of course, if you don&rsquo;t know that you&rsquo;re in the middle
of the Kingdom of Heaven, and that you&rsquo;re the Son or Daughter of
God&mdash;an eternal God whose offspring are eternal and who cannot
possibly embody sin, sickness or death&mdash;you won&rsquo;t challenge
it and you won&rsquo;t put forth the degree of energy it takes to move
through your conditioning, to participate in the holy instant, to
challenge what you&rsquo;re seeing and then shut up and ask to know what
is the actual truth here. As I keep saying, &ldquo;What is the more of
what God is Being right here than what I&rsquo;m seeing?&rdquo;

But you see, the key is you&rsquo;ve got to become honest enough and
black and white enough to look and say, &ldquo;Wait a minute &hellip;
this life, this lifestyle, the way business is conducted, the way
politics is practiced, the way international alliances and disagreements
occur &hellip; all of this is *crap*! It&rsquo;s not good, it&rsquo;s
not divine, it&rsquo;s not orderly, it&rsquo;s not happy.

If you don&rsquo;t do that, change will not occur. If you don&rsquo;t do
that&mdash;if you&rsquo;re not honest enough with
yourself&mdash;you&rsquo;ll continue fooling yourself into thinking,
&ldquo;Wow you know, things are so much better than they were for the
caveman.&rdquo; Or &ldquo;things are so much better than they were for
my recent ancestors, even my great grandmother or great-great
grandfather &hellip; wow, they didn&rsquo;t have nearly the benefits and
the comforts, etc., that we have today.&rdquo;

Oh wait a minute, they had sin, sickness and death, didn&rsquo;t
they&mdash;suffering, over and over &hellip; heartache, jealousy, rage,
fear, all consuming mental disease, not everyone, but those who needed
to be hospitalized and those not quite so bad.

But the point is this: Dare to be clear enough to recognize what
you&rsquo;ve been calling tolerable, and even somewhat pleasant, does
not embody a God, does not embody infinite intelligence, does not embody
what you must have to be in order to exist at all, because there is a
First Cause that is flawless.

I&rsquo;ve said it before, if the First Cause was not flawless, if there
was the slightest flaw present, because of the infiniteness of God, that
tiny flaw would be totally destructive and therefore, God would cease to
exist and there would be no one listening to me and there would be no
one for me to talk to.

Simple: Very black and white.

What does this mean? At the bottom line, what are the practical aspects
of it?  And what is it that the Course is illuminating? Well, it&rsquo;s
illuminating that you are having distorted perceptions of something
flawless&mdash;the Kingdom of Heaven. And you think you are something
that can have distorted perceptions when you&rsquo;re actually the
Offspring of a perfect First Cause incapable of Being the Cause of
anything less than perfect. That&rsquo;s what. And that means that you
have a choice that you didn&rsquo;t know you had.

You have the choice to choose for the Real even though you don&rsquo;t
know what It is yet. You have the choice because now you&rsquo;re being
told there is &ldquo;a Real&rdquo; to embrace&mdash;to experience. And
that&rsquo;s because there is a Brotherhood beyond but including all of
you who are not caught in the same dream you are, who are not fascinated
by very peculiar creative imaginative concepts of life and the living of
it and how to be successful, who, because you are at a point of
listening and hearing now, can find me and others telling you the simple
truth so that you now know you can change your mind.

But you&rsquo;re going to have to change your mind. You&rsquo;re going
to have to face right into the ugliness that you&rsquo;ve been covering
over, and call it ugly because it is. And then say, &ldquo;Because
what&rsquo;s really going on here that is so unpleasant, aside from my
glossing it over &hellip; because what is going on here is so
unpleasant, and that is not congruent with the actuality of an infinite
First Cause&mdash;perfect&mdash;then I&rsquo;m going to look right there
where it is, I&rsquo;m going to look right at this conditioning that
blocks me from experiencing the truth, and I&rsquo;m going to not resort
to all the mutually agreed upon definitions that we orphans have made,
but I&rsquo;m going to turn to the Father I never knew, and I&rsquo;m
going to ask of Him, &lsquo;What&rsquo;s the truth here?&rsquo; And
I&rsquo;m going to persist until I have the answer because settling for
a glossed-over tolerance of misery no longer seems productive or
valuable to me. And so I&rsquo;m going to put forth the effort,
I&rsquo;m going to put forth the attention that it takes to not give up
once again and just settle into the status quo because it works,
it&rsquo;s reasonable, etc.&rdquo;

Now going into the book[^1], it says:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego is hyperalert to threat, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; now this word was changed. Hyperalert was changed to
&ldquo;alert.&rdquo; The ego is alert to threat. Well, I beg your
pardon, it is alert to threat but it&rsquo;s &ldquo;*hyperalert* to
threat&rdquo; and the word, &ldquo;hyperalert&rdquo; was appropriate.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the independent authoritative sense of self that you have
created about yourself and around which you have built a life and a
group who agrees with you as to your value and who works with you and
strokes your back because you stroke their back, it&rsquo;s very alert.
It&rsquo;s &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; hyperalert to threat, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; because its created all of these agreements and its created the
structure out of nothing! And everybody is agreeing that nothing is
something. And everyone has given great definition to the nothingness
that is now treated as something. Hey, the more structures you build and
the structures upon structures&mdash;the beliefs built upon
beliefs&mdash;become burdensome because there&rsquo;s no way to really
remember how to keep it all together.

So there&rsquo;s great stress. Threat is ever-present&mdash;the
possibility that you will not be able to successfully maintain the
structure is ever-present.

So:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego is hyperalert to threat, and the part of
your mind into which the ego was accepted &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; listen to that:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the part of your mind into which the
ego was accepted &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you see, there is a Mind that pre-exists the ego. It&rsquo;s
the divine Mind that you Are. It&rsquo;s the holy Son or Daughter of God
that you Are&mdash;your true conscious awareness. It was there before
you said, &ldquo;Father I&rsquo;d rather do it my way,&rdquo; and you
got a divorce and you created out of imagination a self of your own
making and the making of others who chose to agree with you and support
that illusion if you would support theirs.

So:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego is hyperalert to threat, and the part of
your mind into which the ego was accepted is very anxious to preserve
its reason, as it sees it. 
</div>

It&rsquo;s reason for being, it&rsquo;s reason for what it does, etc.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It does not realize that it is totally insane.
And you must realize just what this means, if YOU would be restored to
sanity. 
</div>

Do you see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you must realize just what this means, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; *you must realize* that ugly is ugly and not something that you
can tolerate and therefore isn&rsquo;t really ugly&mdash;ugly.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you must realize just what this means,
if YOU would be restored to sanity. The insane protect their thought
systems,
</div>

All of the orphans in the orphanage protect their thought systems. But
they do this insanely.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And ALL their defenses are as insane as what
they are supposed to protect. 
</div>

Oh, you have a wonderful definition of yourself that you&rsquo;ve
created and that others have helped you create. And everybody knows who
you are&mdash;you do, everyone else does, and of course it&rsquo;s not
you. It&rsquo;s what all of you have agreed you are for the purposes of
successfully being not the Son or Daughter of God. That&rsquo;s insane,
isn&rsquo;t it?

All the mutually agreed upon definitions have as their purpose: to
protect and maintain the ongoing ignorance of your divinity, by
preoccupying you with your independent status and its improvement with
the promise that you can become a presence of excellence without a
Source. Well you see, that&rsquo;s the ugliness, that&rsquo;s the
illusion, that&rsquo;s what isn&rsquo;t Real, that&rsquo;s what needs to
be looked at and seen as not at all what you&rsquo;ve finessed it into
being for you.

You&rsquo;ve got to see it or you will not have justification for
letting go of it and genuinely being receptive to what you can now maybe
believe will be a truer perception of what you Are, and who you Are, and
where you are.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The separation has NOTHING in it, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you see? It doesn&rsquo;t have mutual agreements even. There
are no orphanages. And there is no orphan mindset. You can imagine all
these things, but they don&rsquo;t become actual. And here&rsquo;s part
of the ugliness: The promise is, that they will become actual and
it&rsquo;s therefore, worthwhile for you to persist and see all of this
as tolerable because there&rsquo;s a grand design to it that has as its
goal your successful emergence as a presence of intelligence on your
own.

It&rsquo;s a lie! And because it&rsquo;s a lie and because the effect of
the lie is to keep you unconscious of who you Are, it is destructive and
malicious, mean spirited, and unworthy of you.

You&rsquo;ve got to begin to feel that. Because if you don&rsquo;t, you
won&rsquo;t bring sufficient attention to the illusion that would keep
you still, keep you quiet, keep you from climbing out of the crab
barrel, and we&rsquo;ll say, looking at in the face and moving out of
the crab barrel nevertheless.

At the bottom line, that&rsquo;s going to mean that you are practicing a
devotion to the Son of God that you Are, or the Daughter of God that you
Are by persisting in holding to it, instead of yielding back into the
common mutual agreement that although life is difficult it&rsquo;s not
that bad and there&rsquo;s a good reason for whatever negativity is
there &hellip; and therefore, stop your complaining.

You see? And I&rsquo;m saying, COMPLAIN! I&rsquo;m saying OBJECT!
Don&rsquo;t object at the beginning of a war and don&rsquo;t look for
who you can blame. But object to the use of your mind&mdash;that
you&rsquo;re putting your mind to when you accept the status quo and you
avoid bringing the effort necessary to challenge the conditioning that
tells you to shut up and to sit still and be quiet and don&rsquo;t rock
the boat&mdash;and persist in moving through it.

Don&rsquo;t take the bluff. Ignore the bluff. Because it&rsquo;s coming
from a self that doesn&rsquo;t exist. It&rsquo;s coming from mutual
agreements that all define this process and have developed techniques
for keeping you sane&mdash;meaning in your ignorance.

But there&rsquo;s no orphan there. And there&rsquo;s no generated entity
who can object to your objection. It&rsquo;s that simple!

So you could say I&rsquo;m encouraging everyone to become a
&ldquo;conscientious objector.&rdquo; But do it with devotion. Do it
with persistence. Ask to know what the truth is here instead of the
conditioning that would bind you. What is the truth here that
constitutes the release of that bondage and the moving through into the
divine clarity that it&rsquo;s your Birthright to be experiencing?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The separation has NOTHING in it, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in other words, independent existence has nothing in it.
It&rsquo;s not Real.  There is no such thing. And no matter how much you
imagine it, there&rsquo;s still nothing in it. God didn&rsquo;t make it.
It is not an Idea in the divine Mind of God. And therefore, there is no
idea, no matter how imaginatively you created an idea of an Idea.

So:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The separation has NOTHING in it, no part, no
"reason," and no attribute that is NOT insane. And its "protection" is
part of it, as insane as the whole. 
</div>

So you feel threat when you&rsquo;re willing to challenge the
status-quo, when you&rsquo;re willing to embrace the possibility that
you are the Son or Daughter of God and that if you abandon your
independent mental practices and ask of God and yield to Him, you will
get answers. You will get the clarity of His Mind that is the clarity of
your Mind because that&rsquo;s the way God created … *that&rsquo;s the
way God created*.

Although a false idea was imagined and a way to protect it was imagined
as well, none of it is there. There is nothing to it. It&rsquo;s an idea
of bullying.  That&rsquo;s all&mdash;no bully around at all. Oh,
there&rsquo;s an idea about bullying. And there&rsquo;s an idea about
how bullying works and there are lots of ideas about the disastrous
effects of bullying. That of course, is part of the protection, because
if it can make you afraid of being bullied, then you will not challenge
the idea of bullying that&rsquo;s false in the first place &hellip;
amazingly logical and reasonable, but utterly untrue, utterly unreal.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The special relationship, which is its chief
defense, MUST therefore be insane. 
</div>

Again, what is the special relationship? It&rsquo;s a relationship
you&rsquo;re in with someone or something and God is nowhere to be
found. You don&rsquo;t think that God really has anything to do with the
relationship, unless you want to believe that after the &ldquo;big
bang&rdquo; and the physical creation of a physical universe that had
nothing to do with God, happened one day to be seen by God as God moved
through the ethers and He adopted this independent physical universe and
decided to take care of it and make the wretched existence of those
living in this purely physical universe more comfortable&mdash;to bless
them so that they weren&rsquo;t totally miserable.

Nope, God hasn&rsquo;t adopted something that isn&rsquo;t His Creation.
God is taking care of and constantly Being the ongoing or ever-present
newness of His Creation, which you are misunderstanding and
misinterpreting and which, as we&rsquo;ve said, constitutes an ignorant
experience that has safe-guards built in, to see to it that you will
never lose your ignorance, you will remain bound by it permanently.

Now remember, the safe-guards are protecting something that
doesn&rsquo;t exists.  And the safe-guards themselves are just so much
hot air. They&rsquo;re nothing either. You see?

I am trying to paint a picture here that allows you to find an easy way
to abandon your devotion to the way things seem to be and so that you
might dare to look clearly enough at everything to see that the human
condition of sin, disease, death, suffering, etc., hasn&rsquo;t changed.
*Things aren&rsquo;t better*.

So maybe diphtheria isn&rsquo;t present, maybe the black plague
doesn&rsquo;t cause great suffering on the globe. But hey, today cancer
does. Today this, that or the other thing disrupts your peace and you
staunchly step up to the plate and meet the challenge and find a way to
exist in a miserable experience, with hope and ever-present confidence
that what? &hellip; this too shall pass away.

Well, my dear &hellip; my dears &hellip; my dear friends, until what
we&rsquo;re talking about occurs you will also pass away and you will
continue to seem to be subject to sin, disease and death and you will be
subject to fear. And it&rsquo;s time to stop. And there&rsquo;s a way to
stop. It&rsquo;s the practice of the holy instant. It&rsquo;s the
abandonment of special relationships.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have but little difficulty now in realizing
that the thought system which the special relationship protects is but a
system of delusions. 
</div>

What thought system does the special relationship protect? The thought
system of an independent, authoritative presence built out of its own
supposedly innate capacity to create itself and build itself up without
any foundation.

The special relationship protects the orphan mindset. The special
relationship keeps the orphanages in existence. The special relationship
therefore, constitutes what has been a most effective means of blinding
you to your Birthright and causing you to live in misery with nothing to
challenge it.

Now, this would be depressing for me to share if there was no way to
challenge it, if there was no way to move beyond it. We&rsquo;ve started
out by showing that there is a way to move beyond it. Unfortunately,
coming at it from that direction doesn&rsquo;t put a fire under your
ass. It doesn&rsquo;t motivate you to bring to bear on the situation the
degree of attention and the persistence of attention that it takes to
challenge what keeps you bound&mdash;whatever the beliefs are that you
entertain that justify not having an instantaneous healing of cancer or
whatever problem you might be having or whatever beliefs are inhibiting
you from, well, just making stupid mistakes because there&rsquo;s not
the clarity that it&rsquo;s your Birthright to have available to you.

Because you&rsquo;ve adopted a set of beliefs, a set of behavioral
reverences that you abide by stupidly, because you simply haven&rsquo;t
bothered to bring that ignorance into the light by saying,
&ldquo;I&rsquo;m not going to continue to reinforce that automatically.
I&rsquo;m suspending my automatic continuance of this belief, this
habit, and I&rsquo;m going to ask the Holy Spirit&rdquo;&mdash;that
which is nothing more than my right Mind&mdash;&ldquo;what is the truth
here &hellip; what&rsquo;s the truth beyond this limitation, this
inhibition that I&rsquo;m reinforcing? What am I inhibiting myself from
seeing, or what is the belief that I am energizing, keeping me from
seeing and experiencing?&rdquo; And not abandoning that quest, that
question, until the clarity comes, when you will find yourself on the
other side of that which had inhibited you and when you will no longer
be governed by that conditioning.

Again, I started out tonight by saying, &lsquo;You&rsquo;re in the
middle of the Kingdom of Heaven and you are the Sons and Daughters of
God right now, but you&rsquo;re not experiencing it.&rsquo; Why not?
Because you are conditioned not to experience it.

Now, it should be clearer to you than before we began, that whatever
inhibits you from seeing the clarity that it&rsquo;s your Birthright to
be, to have available to you, that not having it available to you is not
justifiable any more. It is not something that you can tolerate.
It&rsquo;s not something you are going to put up with. It&rsquo;s not
something you&rsquo;re going to flow with because, &ldquo;It&rsquo;s
refining my soul. It&rsquo;s having some benefit for me.&rdquo;
Bullshit!

Get real! Getting real about illusion causes you to become
disillusioned&mdash;free of illusion. And I promise you, although you
may not yet believe it, you are the Sons and Daughters of God. And you
have a Birthright available to you that is inseparable from you, has not
been taken away from you, has not been withheld from you by the Father
because you decided to have this little side-trip of imaginative
independence.

And there&rsquo;s no reason for you not to reach for it now, with
persistence and with attention backed by commitment. It will be your joy
to experience the result. It&rsquo;s the whole point of the holy instant
to bring you into that place where God&rsquo;s laws prevail. And your
divinity is no longer held in trust while you dally with the ego. It is
reinstated, because you haven&rsquo;t blocked it as you, as your
conscious experience of being and as your clear identity as the Son or
Daughter of God.

That&rsquo;s a lot of wonderful ground shaking, ground breaking good
news.

I look forward to being with you next week. And if the doing of some of
what I&rsquo;ve discussed isn&rsquo;t all fun &hellip; that&rsquo;s
okay. You have been putting up with lifetimes of &ldquo;not fun&rdquo;
that got you nowhere. Any expenditure you put forth in the direction
I&rsquo;m speaking of, although it may not all be fun, will uncover your
divinity to you and return your sanity to you.

If you&rsquo;re not afraid to put effort forth in other directions and
you can justify it and it won&rsquo;t help you Wake up, then transfer
that willingness to something that will. It&rsquo;s that simple.

And I stand with you and behind you in support in every bit of attention
you bring to this. So does your Guide and so does the Holy Spirit. That
is the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s job!

Okay.

[^1]: T17.4 Perception and the Two Worlds

