---
title: Jun 12, 2011
ref: T17.4 Perception and the Two Worlds
alink: "/acim/text/17/chap1704/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

You know, before every study group, before any occasion where Paul and I
sit together like this, during the quiet time, Paul says a prayer which
I have shared with you before and I&rsquo;m not going to share the whole
thing now. But the very last part of it says, &ldquo; &hellip; and may
Thy Word enrich the affections of all mankind and govern them.&rdquo;

Now, you might question whether I&rsquo;m abiding by that or fulfilling
that prayer, when I speak the way I spoke last week &hellip; when I
speak the way I speak on many occasions where it is direct and terse and
honest and motivating. Because after all, last week I was saying if you
take a clear look at your life without glossing it over with positive
thinking, you will find that your life isn&rsquo;t happy. And I
encouraged you to be very honest with yourselves about that, to be very
honest about the fact that after, let&rsquo;s say, generations of people
studying my words, the Bible, other holy books, there is still sin,
sickness and death &hellip; right?

It would seem that no matter how much positive thinking is used, no
matter how much my words are used and brought to life in your lives,
except for the occasional miracle&mdash;healing,
correction&mdash;there&rsquo;s still sin, sickness and death occurring.
They still seem to be the &ldquo;law&rdquo; of being, don&rsquo;t they?
I mean, everyone is governed by them. You just can&rsquo;t escape
sin, sickness and death.

Well now, why would it be important to give your attention&mdash;your
sincere, honest attention&mdash;to that kind of thing? How on earth
could that constitute your affections being enriched by my word&mdash;by
God&rsquo;s Word, by the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s Word &hellip; &ldquo;and
may Thy Word enrich the affections of all mankind and govern
them.&rdquo;

Now I just finished saying that sin, sickness and death seemed to be the
bottom line laws that govern man, didn&rsquo;t I? Well, they certainly
aren&rsquo;t enriching the affections are they?

But you know what? Sin, sickness and death happen in a context. They
happen in an arena. But I&rsquo;m going to say they happen in a
mind-set. They happen in a context of independence, a context of
independence hoped for, independence worked for, and independence which
you have been falsely promised you can achieve.

In other words, sin sickness and death seem to occur and seem to govern
you when you have adopted an independent stance in which there is a
promise of your being able to become, like Pinocchio, a real boy &hellip; a
successful actually independent entity.

I&rsquo;m going to ask you, with all of what we have read since the
beginning, and with all of the discussion that we&rsquo;ve had about
special relationships, how many of you, off the top of your head, would
identify a special relationship as a defense?

How many of you, if I had said, &ldquo;What is a special
relationship?&rdquo; would have had as the top-most answer in your mind,
a defense? It is. What is it a defense against? It&rsquo;s a defense
against a conscious awareness of God. And it is a defense against a
conscious experience of your Birthright and your existence as the direct
expression of God. It&rsquo;s a defense against your having clear,
honest, realistic, self-appreciation, self-assessment and true
self-identification.

Being a defense against that, it causes you to experience amnesia and
not remember who you Are and not know who you Are and leaves you in the
unenviable position of having to create a sense of identity out of
nothing. The only thing is, that this act of creating a sense of
self-identity out of nothing was a result of a conscious act that at
some point, you took. It was an initial act of separation from God, from
your Source and therefore from your conscious connection with your
Source and we&rsquo;ve talked about this endlessly.

How did you do it? How did you get this divorce&mdash;this separation
from  God?

Well, you didn&rsquo;t just do it by saying &ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;d
rather see it my way. Father, I would rather do it my way. Father, I
would rather determine what this is and what that is.&rdquo; That
wasn&rsquo;t the only thing you did. You did that, but you did it with
someone else. In so many words, you took the hand of another Son or
Daughter of God and you, together, made a vow to see things your way
through the establishment of mutual agreements.

Now keep that in mind. Because as we read in the book, it says:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have but little difficulty now in realizing that the thought system
which the special relationship protects &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; there it is, protects, defends against. Listen: Defends.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have but little difficulty now in realizing that the thought system
which the special relationship protects is but a system of delusions.
You recognize, at least in general terms, that the ego is insane.
</div>

We&rsquo;ve talked about it &hellip; and talked about it &hellip; and
talked about it. And intellectually, you&rsquo;re being able to grasp
and see that the ego is insane&mdash;that your ego is insane.
You&rsquo;re able to look at that with some courage because we have been
talking about how to be released from it so that looking at it
doesn&rsquo;t convict you but allows you to see more clearly what you
don&rsquo;t want to experience and which therefore, justifies your doing
what it takes to abandon it&mdash;to release yourself from it.

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You recognize, at least in general terms, that the ego is insane. Yet
the special relationship still seems to you somehow to be
&ldquo;different.&rdquo;
</div>

In other words, not insane.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the special relationship still seems to you somehow to be
&ldquo;different.&rdquo; Yet we have looked at it far closer &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; especially in the last few weeks &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; we have looked at it far closer than at many other aspects the
ego&rsquo;s thought system which you have been more willing to let go.
While this one remains, you will NOT let the others go. For this one is
NOT different. Retain this one, and you HAVE retained the whole.
</div>

Now, you all really need this special relationship to be different. Why?
Because it&mdash;you&mdash;taking the hand of another Son or Daughter of
God and vowing together to see everything the way you choose to see it,
to define it the way you choose to define it, to be the authorizer of
definitions, meanings, mutual agreements, literally as to how the earth
turns, how the world goes around, how society functions. I mean,
it&rsquo;s all inclusive isn&rsquo;t it, all starting from this holding
of hands and taking a vow together to ignore your Father, to ignore the
meanings invoked, we&rsquo;ll say, in the act of Creation and being in
every way independent. That&rsquo;s what makes it different.

You may have special relationships with things &hellip; with your
artwork &hellip; with trees &hellip; with land &hellip; with animal
husbandry &hellip; with any number of things you may have special
relationships.

And again: What is a special relationship?

A special relationship is a relationship you have with anything where
God is absent, where you have the relationship without ever having the
faintest inkling of awareness that there&rsquo;s something holy about
this that you&rsquo;re having a relationship with.

And what&rsquo;s holy about it is its Source. And its Source means that
it&mdash;the thing you&rsquo;re having a relationship with&mdash;is
divine, is flawless, is perfect, is imbued with Love. And part of its
function is to embrace you and everything else with the Love that it is.
And I could go on and on and we&rsquo;ve done this before.

The point is, that a special relationship with something is one in which
none of that is experienced by you and there&rsquo;s not even the
faintest curiosity about what might be there more than the definitions
you have given it or those with whom you have mutual agreements have
given them. You see?

Now, that kind of a special relationship with things is different from
special relationships you have with individuals. Why? Because things
don&rsquo;t agree back with you, they don&rsquo;t join in a mutual
agreement as to your misunderstanding and misinterpretation of what it
is. You see? So these things can&rsquo;t reinforce your confidence in
your imaginations.

That&rsquo;s what makes special relationships with other individuals
special. Because you can both nurture and feed each others&rsquo;
delusions. And you can both punish each other if you neglect to feed
those delusions.

So you can seem to experience a great amount of control&mdash;authority.
But more than anything else, the thing that makes a special relationship
special, is that the special relationship absolutely keeps you
unconscious of God, absolutely keeps you unconscious of your holiness,
absolutely keeps you from experiencing your omnipotence&mdash;and I mean
that in the sense of being inviolable, unchangeable from what God has
created you As, unchangeable and therefore ever safe, therefore, ever
without the experience of fear or anxiety, concern. In other words, in a
state of perfect peace out of which arises spontaneously, infinite joy.

Yet it is these very aspects of special relationship that make it so
unholy, make it so unhealthy. And so this thing that seems very special
to you and very important to you, deludes you in the most malicious of
ways. And so you cannot afford to look at it with any kind of
friendliness or tolerance else you will remain bound to it, bound by it
and unconscious of who you Are, therefore, insane.

Now I spent quite a bit of time last week being very strict in focusing
your attention on the fact that things aren&rsquo;t getting any better!

But you say, &ldquo;They&rsquo;re going to get better. After all, look
at all the progress that has been made here and there &hellip;
it&rsquo;s going to get better.&rdquo;

Oh, yes, I know &hellip; that&rsquo;s the promise and that&rsquo;s the
lie. Now, take a look at it.

The defense that a special relationship is, is a defense against your
Knowing who you Are. And it&rsquo;s not just a defense against knowing
who you Are, it is a defense which gives you a different definition than
what you Are &hellip; dangerous &hellip; important for you not to be
deluded by &hellip; important for you to become free of.

Now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the special relationship still seems to you somehow to be
&ldquo;different.&rdquo;
</div>

It&rsquo;s not. I&rsquo;ve made it very clear that it isn&rsquo;t. You
see, the promise that things will get better keep you looking at the
fact that things haven&rsquo;t gotten better over great periods of time.
They say, &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t pay any attention to the facts, don&rsquo;t
pay any attention to the obvious, pay attention to the fact that you
have a capacity&mdash;somewhere in you, you have a capacity to think and
be creatively and create new circumstances.&rdquo; And so, these
promises, these agreements that you have between each other keep you
emboldened to persist in doing what you can&rsquo;t do. And it keeps you
from looking at the effects&mdash;the long standing effects of special
relationships&mdash;which are that sin, sickness and death still occur
&hellip; occur &hellip; occur . . over and over, changelessly. You see?

Because you won&rsquo;t look at the facts! You won&rsquo;t look at the
positive thinking. You want to look at the creativity that you have. You
want to look at the lie.

Now mind you, that which says you are an entity who can through its own
efforts and the agreements and support of others, become real in your
own right. That&rsquo;s a lie &hellip; that&rsquo;s a lie.

But do you know what defends that lie by causing you to not look clearly
at it so that you just simply say, &ldquo;Well, that&rsquo;s an
undesirable thing which, through the use of creative thinking and logic,
we can work our way out of.&rdquo; You see?

So a lie covers up a lie. That&rsquo;s the nature of a special
relationship.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the special relationship still seems to you somehow to be
"different." Yet we have looked at it far closer than at many other
aspects of the ego's thought system which you have been more willing to
let go. While this one remains, you will NOT let the others go. For this
one is NOT different. Retain this one, and you HAVE retained the whole.
</div>

If you retain the special relationship, which constitutes your
unconsciousness of who you Are and your unconsciousness of your Source,
then any other defenses you have will be held in place too. Hold on to
this one and refrain from rejoining with your Father and therefore your
sanity.

It will mean that what you thought you let go of, you&rsquo;re still
ignorant, you&rsquo;re still unconscious. Nothing has really been let
go. You see?

Again, very black and white. Very simple. Don&rsquo;t be afraid to look
at it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is essential to realize that all defenses DO what they would DEFEND.
</div>

If they defend a lie, they defend with a lie. &ldquo;Oh, you can make
yourself into something real. You can lift yourself up by your
bootstraps. It&rsquo;s the nature of life to expand itself. It&rsquo;s
the nature of life to develop itself.&rdquo; You see?

&ldquo;After all look, it started out as a single-celled creature. And
then multiple cells, and then organisms and then apes and then man
&hellip; oh, look, it&rsquo;s the nature of life to develop &hellip; to
progress &hellip; to make itself better. That&rsquo;s what life
does.&rdquo;

Well you can go on believing that for another ten million years. You
won&rsquo;t Wake up, you won&rsquo;t come back into your right Mind.
That isn&rsquo;t the way it works. And we&rsquo;re undoing that which
traps you in that kind of a thought system, in that kind of a belief
system.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is essential to realize that all defenses DO what they would DEFEND.
The underlying basis for their effectiveness is that they OFFER what
they defend.
</div>

See? They defended the lie, they offer lies to defend the lie. You all
do know about that.

What I want for you to believe and what I want for you to understand is
that it&rsquo;s not natural for you to understand about lying and using
a lie as a defense of a lie. I want you to come into a much more natural
experience of what you Are on the basis of your divinity. Because you
know what &hellip; you and I &hellip; you and all of the Brotherhood
that are Awake can&rsquo;t enjoy the camaraderie of our Brotherhood
until you finally take the leap, bring forth the effort, the discipline,
the stick-to-itiveness and actually behave differently, actually engage
in the two-step.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The underlying basis for their effectiveness &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the effectiveness of defenses &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is that they OFFER what they defend. What they defend is placed
IN them for safe-keeping, and as they operate, they BRING it to you.
Every defense operates by giving gifts, and the gift is ALWAYS a
miniature of the thought system the defense protects, set in a golden
frame.
</div>

Now mind you, we started out tonight by talking about the fact that a
special relationship is a defense &hellip; right? You look at a special
relationship, if you look at it on its own, it&rsquo;s miserable. If
you&rsquo;re willing to be honest about looking at it and seeing it for
what it actually is, you will recognize that it&rsquo;s not an enjoyable
experience, right? It&rsquo;s not a pleasurable experience because
it&rsquo;s not the truth about you. It&rsquo;s an artificial and false
rendition of you which if you somehow believe it, will make you
miserable&hellip; will make you feel&hellip; arrrggh &hellip; not
comfortable in your own skin. And then everything you do will arise out
of that feeling of uncomfortableness in your skin and needing somehow to
find a way to get control of things so that you can feel comfortable in
your skin again.

Except that you&rsquo;ll never feel comfortable in your skin by finding
a way to manipulate and control things. You will only find it by
abandoning, oh wow, the intent to forget who you Are, ignore who you
Are, ignore your Father, ignore the absolute divinity and perfection of
your Being and all Being. That&rsquo;s the only way that you will find
yourself once again feeling comfortable in your own skin, in your own
Being, in your own presence.

This special relationship that you&rsquo;re in with others and with
everything, is what is held in the frame. The picture itself is
unpleasant. The frame however, is constituted of all of the false
promises and false hopes and mutual agreements that you all will support
each other and bolster each other up in your misery to help you forget
your misery and have some positive attitude and some positive feeling
and energy with which to take on each day as each day arises. And so
this miserable picture is embraced by lies&mdash;other falsehoods. But,
what? They involve involvements with others, so you&rsquo;re not lonely
&hellip; even though you&rsquo;re lonely &hellip; even though you know
you&rsquo;re alone.

You have involvements with others. And the involvements feel good and
they nurture and they satisfy you and they make you feel comfortable and
so you pursue those. And these relationships become more and more
complex until this frame around this miserable picture is so full of
hope and so full of stories of &ldquo;success&rdquo; that you
don&rsquo;t have to look at the picture anymore and you don&rsquo;t have
to provide an honest assessment of what the picture is saying.

You see? That&rsquo;s how it works.

So you become so-o-o-o-o preoccupied with the wonder of the mutual
agreements and structures surrounding this miserable picture, that that
begins to be what you determine life from and your happiness from. And
you&rsquo;re lost. You see, if you&rsquo;re not even seeing the picture
for what it is, if you&rsquo;ve forgotten that you&rsquo;re actually
miserable, in the state of misery, you&rsquo;re really insane,
you&rsquo;re really not grasping things truly.

And there&rsquo;s call for correction. And correction is available. And
if I was not here to tell you that correction is available, it would
serve no purpose whatsoever to say, &ldquo;Look at the picture, forget
the frame. Look at the picture and see that it&rsquo;s nothing but
miserable.&rdquo; And then seeing that clearly and not being distracted
by all of the fantasized means of overcoming the miserable, the misery,
you can say, &ldquo;Wait a minute, there must be another way to look at
this.&rdquo; And the other way to look at this is not to ignore it and
become preoccupied with the frame in all of its incredible complexities.
You see?

Another way to look at this is to look at it and feel the misery of the
disconnectedness while someone is saying to you, &ldquo;The only reason
you&rsquo;re experiencing misery from this picture is because of a
disconnection that actually never occurred. You never actually became
disconnected from your Source, from your Father. You therefore, are at
this very moment the full Offspring of God, absolutely divine, embodying
absolute perfection, which it&rsquo;s your Birthright to be experiencing
fully at this very moment.

So ignore the frame, see the misery, acknowledge that the misery can be
abandoned by your choosing to join with the Holy Spirit or with the
Christ Consciousness, or with God. And let us in and join with us in
mutual endeavor, which you let us determine because we know what brings
correction to the miserable picture. It&rsquo;s that simple.

Now many of you have probably read this portion of the Course that talks
about the pictures and the frames and have not understood it at all.

I&rsquo;m going to read now and in light of what I&rsquo;ve said, see if
it makes sense:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Every defense operates by giving gifts, and the gift is ALWAYS a
miniature of the thought system the defense protects, set in a golden
frame. The frame is very elaborate, all set with jewels, and deeply
carved &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; no chintzy frame, this frame &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; deeply carved and polished.
</div>

Wasn&rsquo;t pressed out with a mold. No, hand made &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; deeply carved and polished. Its purpose is to be of value IN
ITSELF&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; this frame &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and to divert your attention from what it encloses. But the
frame WITHOUT the picture, you cannot have.
</div>

You see? And actually the ultimate goal of being a real individual in
your own right is for the picture frame to become the thing, no longer
with the picture in it of misery that shows a holy Son or Daughter of
God or holy Sons and Daughters of God in misery.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
But the frame WITHOUT the picture, you cannot have.
</div>

You can never get rid of the picture. Why? Because the picture is where
the lie is that needs to be corrected. It&rsquo;s not in the frame.
It&rsquo;s not in the mutual agreements. You don&rsquo;t need to get
better mutual agreements. You don&rsquo;t need to get better social
welfare laws. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
But the frame WITHOUT the picture, you cannot have.
</div>

But listen to this:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Defenses operate to make you think you CAN.
</div>

There&rsquo;s the false promise. There&rsquo;s the carrot hanging in
front of your nose. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Defenses operate to make you think you CAN.
</div>

&hellip; that you can do what you can&rsquo;t do. Now:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The special relationship has the most imposing and deceptive frame of
all the defenses the ego uses. Its thought system is offered here,
surrounded by a frame so heavy and so elaborate that the picture is
almost obliterated by its imposing structure. Into the frame &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; mutual agreements, imaginations &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; are woven all sorts of fanciful and fragmented illusions of
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; love, set with dreams of sacrifice and
self-aggrandizement&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you see, it&rsquo;s not fragmented with illusions of pain and
sorrow and suffering is it? No. It&rsquo;s &hellip; into it &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; are woven all sorts of fanciful and fragmented illusions of
love&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and hope and charity and kindness and all sorts of good things
that allow manipulation to occur smoothly. Right?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Into the frame are woven all sorts of fanciful and fragmented illusions
of love, set with dreams of sacrifice and self-aggrandizement, and
interlaced with gilded threads of self-destruction. The glitter of blood
shines like rubies&hellip;
</div>

You see? Come on, don&rsquo;t wonder what this is about. Don&rsquo;t
play naive. How many have shed blood for the sake of freedom.
Don&rsquo;t tell me that you don&rsquo;t honor blood as glittering like
rubies with great meaning.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The glitter of blood shines like rubies, and the tears are faceted like
diamonds and gleam in the dim light in which the offering is made.
</div>

Tears of what seem to be genuine repentance or tears of recognition that
something was done that was wrong, tears that express the fact that the
person shedding the tears has abandoned a false front and is
experiencing humility. These are &ldquo;faceted like diamonds,&rdquo;
they&rsquo;re grandly and greatly appreciated &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and gleam in the dim light in which the offering is made.
</div>

Now why treat these things with disrespect or without full honor? The
reason is that shedding blood for the sake of freedom doesn&rsquo;t
constitute Waking up to what Real freedom is. And it becomes possible to
dedicate ones self to the shedding of blood because it does seem to
bring about some needed change. And to be so dedicated to that that
father and son and grandson and great-grandson, all one after the other,
follow in the footsteps of the military, because the family honors the
dedication of those willing to shed blood for the sake of freedom and
the better life for others.

What I&rsquo;m here to do is to set everyone&rsquo;s mind in a new
direction where instead of father and son and grandson and
great-grandson all following in a pattern of respect for the glitter of
blood, that the son or the grandson says, &ldquo;Wait a minute, there
has to be a different way of looking at this. There has to be a way to
breaking the repetition of sin, sickness and death &hellip; sin,
sickness and death, life, death &hellip; there has to be a way to break
that pattern. And I&rsquo;m going to do that. I&rsquo;m going to attend
to that instead of going off to war like my father and my grandfather
and my great-grandfather. And I&rsquo;m going to do this in spite of the
fact that the wives and mothers and the rest of the family also feel the
patriotic duty and the devotion to God and country, such that my taking
this step is going to distress them.&rdquo; You see what I&rsquo;m
saying?

I&rsquo;m not saying this with any disrespect. But I know that what
I&rsquo;m saying is going to be a difficult thing to swallow. But
we&rsquo;ve got to get past the frame that glorifies and honors a
misperception of what the picture in the frame is actually stating. And
what it&rsquo;s actually stating is, that sin, sickness and death are
inevitable. Sin, sickness and death are inevitable. Sin, sickness and
death are in operation at this moment. Sin, sickness and death are
unavoidable, misery…misery…misery…misery…misery. You see what I&rsquo;m
saying?

This is what this means. This is what this story here about the two
pictures and the frames is all about. I&rsquo;m bringing it home in
practical terms so that it&rsquo;s not, you know, so descriptive of
something that you don&rsquo;t understand.

This is the key:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Look at the PICTURE. Do not let the frame distract you. This gift
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the picture, remember, is the gift.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This gift is given you for your damnation&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; it&rsquo;s not given to make you happy. It&rsquo;s not given to
make you happy. I&rsquo;m not being mean to make you face this.
It&rsquo;s the only way I can get you to have your affections be
enriched. Because the only way your affections can be enriched is if you
stop having a picture which the frame is distracting you from, where
you&rsquo;re never doing the two-step, where you&rsquo;re never saying,
&ldquo;Wait a minute. Father, what is the truth here? Father, I want to
experience Your perspective. And even though I doubt that if I ask You
for it You will give it to me because I&rsquo;m not even truly positive
there is a God. I am going to do something different from what my
great-great-grandfather and my great-grandfather and my father and my
uncles did. Obviously what they did hasn&rsquo;t decreased sin, sickness
and death.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Look at the PICTURE.
</div>

That&rsquo;s the key. The damned picture, the miserable picture. I know,
you&rsquo;d rather go sit down and meditate and have a pretty thought,
have a positive thought. But hey, if you&rsquo;re having the positive
thought all by yourself, the damn miserable picture&rsquo;s still there
in the middle of that huge frame because God never entered the picture
&hellip; God never entered. You see?

Never were the words said, &ldquo;Father, what is the truth here?
Father, I&rsquo;m going to break my isolation from You. I&rsquo;m going
to abandon this so-called authority and independence that I thought was
my Birthright and I&rsquo;m going to join and I&rsquo;m going to give
deference to You and what You have to say. I&rsquo;m going to dare to be
crazy enough to do this to see whether it really does make a difference,
having abandon what my ancestors devoted themselves to.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Look at the PICTURE. Do not let the frame distract you. This gift is
given you for your damnation, and if you take it you will believe that
you ARE damned.
</div>

It&rsquo;s okay to look at this and acknowledge it. Why? Because
it&rsquo;s not the end of the world, it&rsquo;s the beginning of your
capacity to abandon that picture together with the frame and have a new
experience.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You CANNOT have the frame without the picture. What you value is the
FRAME, for there you see no conflict.
</div>

That&rsquo;s because all of the mutual agreements and all of the
intellectual structures that had gone into making this &ldquo;hand
carved frame,&rdquo; give you hope, make life seem worthwhile. They
spell out for you exactly how success will be achieved even though
nobodies achieved it. And you say, &ldquo;Well, you know, everybody
wanted to fly and it wasn&rsquo;t until the Wright brothers actually
accomplished it that it happened. But it did happen &hellip; it did
happen. And so anything we set our mind to can happen. And it may not
happen today but it will be a result of the effort that will allow it to
be accomplished.&rdquo; See, that&rsquo;s all part of the frame.
That&rsquo;s what makes the frame important.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What you value is the FRAME, for there you see no conflict.
</div>

You see the way out of conflict. You see? And that&rsquo;s part of the
details of the frame. And the frame lies just like the picture does.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet the frame is only the wrapping for the gift of conflict.
</div>

Isn&rsquo;t this a miserable conversation we&rsquo;re having together?
It&rsquo;s not really. It&rsquo;s about misery, and it&rsquo;s about
being able to abandon it. It&rsquo;s about being able to be honest
enough as you observe, that you cannot be fooled into confusion and the
adoption of lies as though they&rsquo;re truth.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[Yet] the frame is only the wrapping for the gift of conflict. The frame
is NOT the gift. [Repeats] The frame is NOT the gift. Be not deceived by
the most superficial aspects of this thought system, for these aspects
enclose the whole, complete in EVERY aspect.
</div>

So even in the frame the slightest little apparently positive hopeful
facet is lying and binds you to the misery and awfulness of the picture
just as much as the things that are less lovely but still constitute
some apparently sound basis for hope.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Death lies in this glittering gift. Let not your gaze dwell on the
hypnotic gleaming of the frame.
</div>

What does that mean?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Let not your gaze dwell on the hypnotic gleaming of &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; all of the mutual agreements that you have come to together, or
that others came to and handed down to you as part of your education,
part of your valuable education, part of the education that lifts you
above the rest in a position to be able to help govern well and
successfully. See?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Let not your gaze dwell on the hypnotic gleaming of the frame. Look at
the PICTURE&hellip;
</div>

That will always snap you back.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Look at the PICTURE&hellip;
</div>

Be willing to do what we talked about last week. Be willing to look at
the world and see that sin, sickness and death still operate and still
apparently govern. And they need to stop. And the way they stop is by
withdrawing your attention from the frame, looking at the picture and
saying, &ldquo;Wait a minute, things aren&rsquo;t getting better. What
we&rsquo;re doing isn&rsquo;t improving anything. Something else is
called for. And you know what? I wouldn&rsquo;t even be looking at the
frame and thinking to look at the picture only and to ignore the frame
if an answer weren&rsquo;t already provided pointing my attention in
this direction. And so I am going to pay attention to what is leading me
to a new way of seeing &hellip; a new way of devoting my
attention.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[Raj didn&rsquo;t read this] &hellip; and realize that DEATH is offered
you.

That is why the holy instant is so important in the defense of truth.
The truth itself NEEDS no defense, but you DO need defense against your
own acceptance of the gift of death. When you who are truth accept an
idea so dangerous TO truth, you threaten truth with destruction.
</div>

Of course, it can&rsquo;t really be destroyed but never the less a
threat is engaged in.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And your defense must now be undertaken&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your defense, not the defense of some concept, not the defense
of some illusory thing called a unholy relationship&mdash;a special
relationship&mdash;but the defense of a holy Son or Daughter of God
defending that holiness.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And your defense must now be undertaken, to keep truth WHOLE. The power
of Heaven, the Love of God, the tears of Christ and the joy of His
eternal Spirit are marshalled to defend you from your own attack. For
you attack Them&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what do you attack?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The power of Heaven, the Love of God, the tears of Christ and the joy of
His eternal Spirit &hellip;

For you attack Them, being PART of Them, and They must save you, for
They love Themselves.
</div>

Listen to this last sentence:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For you attack Them, being PART of Them, and They must save you, for
They love Themselves.
</div>

You see? They will not agree with you in your attack of them. They will
not agree with them in your misunderstanding of them that would cause
you to value something else more. And they will not join with you in
dishonoring you as you are, by being attracted to something that keeps
you unconscious of your Self your divine holiness.

Now these are the things that come into play in the holy instant. And
these are the things that come into play in terms of illuminating the
holy instant to you and bringing your attention to them.

Now I know you would like to move on, where perhaps there are some
beautiful things to consider. But I invite you to keep your gaze on the
picture.

Practice the holy instant as often as you wish this week. But
don&rsquo;t do it to the exclusion of taking a look at the
picture&mdash;the gruesome miserable picture. The picture that shows you
that there is so much of God&rsquo;s Love still to be seen by all of
mankind. And you know it because there&rsquo;s so much evidence of
misery still around, still so much evidence of injustice around, still
so much presence of impatience in you with those around you who
aren&rsquo;t expressing as much intelligence as they&rsquo;re capable
of. Impatience in you that makes it difficult for you to be willing to
stand with Love with your Brother or Sister or mother or father or
daughter or son and walk them through their learning with compassion,
with patience while at the same time disallowing for any abuse to be
practiced on you.

I love you all. And these are important things that we are talking
about. These are important aspects of the threshold that I know you
certainly are hoping you&rsquo;re going to move over. It&rsquo;s what
you had hoped for. You just might not have thought these were some of
the aspects of it. But I promise you they are.  And you will not be at a
loss for taking a look at them, considering them and being patient with
yourself in the process.

I look forward to being with you next week.

[^1]: T17.4 Perception and the Two Worlds

