---
title: Jun 18, 2011
ref: "T17.4 Perception and the Two Worlds"
alink: "/acim/text/17/chap1704/"
---

Well, as I know everyone is quite aware whose joined us in the last few
weeks, I have spoken quite unequivocally and in fact, the Course has as
well, about the special relationship, about it&rsquo;s
mean-spiritedness, about its destructiveness. I have not used the word,
&ldquo;evil&rdquo; related to it to any degree, but its function is the
best and truly only definition of evil there is.

And although you know that you aren&rsquo;t experiencing every
relationship in your life joined with the Father and experiencing it
from His perspective, and that therefore, every relationship
you&rsquo;re having in this fashion is a special relationship,
you&rsquo;re relatively comfortable with engaging in special
relationships. And so you find it, I know, difficult to believe that
what you&rsquo;ve been experiencing is malicious, is unloving, is
hateful, is destructive, is mean-spirited and above all, it would be
difficult for you to believe that it is evil in the fullest meaning of
the word, &ldquo;evil.&rdquo;

Looking at this is part of looking at the picture of the special
relationship in the gilded heavily carved and polished frame. But
you&rsquo;ve got to.

Now, you are capable of understanding in what way it is evil and
destructive. And it&rsquo;s simply this: A special relationship is a
relationship you are having with something&mdash;it could be
anything&mdash;an object or it can be a Brother or a Sister. And
I&rsquo;m limiting myself at this moment to the special relationships
with Brothers or Sisters.

Special relationship with objects are not particularly or significantly
evil. They are perverted and they are destructive to your capacity to
recognize truth. But because objects cannot join with you in your
misperception, there is a fundamental element missing that is brought
into play in a special relationship between a Brother and a Sister, a
Son or Daughter, or a Son and a Son, or a Daughter and a Daughter of
God.

What is it?

It is, that indeed both individuals, both Sons or Daughters of God are
most capable of bringing their will into a mutual agreement as to what a
thing is or as to what each other are. You can bring willfulness into
it. You join in a mutual agreement backed by will and what? Cemented by
emotion. That&rsquo;s what a special relationship with an object cannot
bring into play. And this infusion of emotion into a mutual agreement to
understand the meaning of something that is unrelated to the Meaning God
is giving it and backing that up with an emotional commitment
constitutes a frame of mind, a state of mind in which the two of you
have committed to being unconscious of God.

You have made commitment with emotion to be unconscious of the divine
Meaning of everything you are giving your own meanings to.

Do you see what I&rsquo;m saying? What I&rsquo;m saying is, that what
causes a special relationship to be ultimately evil is because it
absolutely disallows for the participants to remember their Source. It
secures them in an illusory experience. It grounds them in it.

Anything which has as its purpose your being unconscious of your Source,
that is the only definition of evil that means anything. And that is
exactly what comes into play in a special relationship.

Be with that for just a moment.

So, is that helpful or not? It is. It is helpful because it&rsquo;s easy
to understand, at least the logic of it. And if the logic of it proves
to be true then it behooves you to not participate. It behooves you to
make significant effort to establish yourself in the experience of the
holy instant to get yourself out of a bondage which is built, fabricated
in such a way as to absolutely disallow you to regain your sanity.

Let me ask you this? I know what I&rsquo;m saying sounds severe. But as
I said, let me ask you this: After all of the timewe have spent together
whether you&rsquo;ve been joining for just a few weeks or for a number a
years, I have constantly encouraged everyone to be willing to
acknowledge that they are not just mortals, not just physical human
beings, but that this which is being perceived as a physical human being
is a holy Son or Daughter of God, the substance of which in all of your
form is Spirit, not matter, subject to the laws of God not subject to
the laws of physics.

I have encouraged you to be aware of something beyond what your present
mind-sets allowed you to have a conscious awareness of and which denied
you the option of exploring. And in spite of the fact that we have spent
all this time, how many of you spend all of your day joined with the
Father accessing this Birthright that is yours and experiencing yourself
as the holy Son of God or Daughter of God that you Are?

So, you know the answer to the question.

That is the answer to just how destructive the special relationships
are. That demonstrates to you in your own experience, in your own mind
just how bound you are and how difficult it is for you to release
yourself from the special relationship. To look at it and see that it is
absolutely impeding you in the spiritual growth you say you want to
experience in which your study of the Course and many other spiritual
traditions has demonstrated.

So, let this further clarity maybe be the only last thing that needs to
be added to your repertoire of reasons for abandoning the special
relationship, for abandoning your orphan-mentality, for laying hold of
your connection with God so consistently, and so completely, that in
fact, you begin to hear Guidance &hellip; feel Guidance &hellip; you
begin to experience the blessing of the holy instant.

It simply does no one any good to have any favorable definition of the
special relationship or of the orphan mind-set that you&rsquo;ve been
enjoying&mdash;enjoying at least enough not to quickly abandon it.

You holy Sons and Daughters of God, you who are my Brothers and Sisters,
there is so much more to what you Are than what you&rsquo;re
experiencing&mdash;than what you&rsquo;re allowing yourself to
experience.

Now, the thought systems of the special relationship all wrap around a
belief that you all have that you can, by your own effort and your
persistence for good reasons and lofty purposes, lift yourselves up by
your bootstraps and become something in your own right. You believe this
and you&rsquo;re willing to bring your emotion and your commitment to
the accomplishment of this impossible task.

I know, you&rsquo;ve all been educated to think that it is not
impossible. But it is impossible if you&rsquo;re already Something
worthwhile. It is impossible to improve yourself and become something
more valid if before you lift a finger or have an imaginative thought,
you&rsquo;re already an ultimate Presence of holiness, of intelligence,
of all of the qualities of God. If you are already these things, you can
do nothing to improve yourself because you are not the miserable mortal
that you think you are that has to lift itself up by its bootstraps and
which, through some magical means has the capacity to do so. You see?

So &hellip; you know, the awfulness, the miserableness and the removal
of any means of accomplishing anything, that&rsquo;s the picture
I&rsquo;m providing. It can seem like I&rsquo;m taking something
important away. It can seem like something awful is being taught. It
seems as though if you participate in it, it will be the end of you. But
listen to this: [reading from previous page last paragraph]

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Be not deceived by the most superficial aspects of this thought system,
for these aspects enclose the whole, complete in EVERY aspect. Death
lies in this glittering gift.[^1]
</div>

That&rsquo;s awful words again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Death lies in this glittering gift. Let not your gaze dwell on the
hypnotic gleaming of the frame.
</div>

You see, the frame is all of the wonderful concepts that all of you have
imagined and worked together on developing so that you come to this
magnificent structure of ideas and beliefs and thoughts that tell you
that the impossibility of the situation you find yourself in, it can be
overcome &hellip; you are not stuck with it! You see?

You see &hellip; and that occupies you with the endeavor to accomplish
all of the things you have imagined you can do to become Real when
before the frame was created, you were already Real. And the picture
that the frame was built around had nothing to do with you &hellip; had
nothing to do with you! It was nothing that you had to overcome. It was
something you actually had to abandon.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Look at the PICTURE&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; not all of the wonderful grand ideas you&rsquo;ve come up with
and your ancestors have come up with.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Look at the PICTURE, and realize that DEATH is offered you.
</div>

You could not be given better counsel &hellip; you could not be given
better counsel!

Death, of course, ultimately cannot happen to a holy Son or Daughter of
God. So no matter to what degree you succumb to the idea that the
impossible is possible, and thereby you align yourself with death, death
cannot happen.

But here&rsquo;s the thing: You will end up with an endless ongoing
experience of sin, disease and death and all of the suffering that
accompanies it because you cannot, you holy Son or Daughter of God,
behave as though you&rsquo;re out of your mind when it&rsquo;s
impossible for a holy Son or Daughter of God to do that. You can try it
but you can&rsquo;t do it, you can&rsquo;t try it without hurting. You
can&rsquo;t try it without your innate sanity saying, &ldquo;You
can&rsquo;t do this, this is impossible! You are accomplishing nothing!
You think you&rsquo;re doing something when you&rsquo;re not!&rdquo; And
your sanity keeps presenting you with these insane ideas that in spite
of what you know about your capacity to accomplish things, you
can&rsquo;t accomplish anything. You see?

And in your insane frame of mind, your sanity sounds insane to you. You
see?

But that&rsquo;s because of the nature of the commitment to the special
relationship, which because of the willfulness and the commitment, and
the sealing of the commitment with emotion, you cannot possibly hear the
truth. You cannot possibly remember your Source because your devotion is
to the special relationship which holds the frame together and honors
everything about the frame to the exclusion of the obvious misery of the
picture that it embraces.

Whew!

So, accept this simple but profound truth about the picture and be
willing to abandon the frame so that you can look at the picture and see
&hellip; &ldquo;Yes, sin sickness and death follow me all the days of my
life. Death is a specter that hangs over my head. It doesn&rsquo;t
necessarily have to have anything to do with age. It could be accident.
It could be injury. It could be just simply physical failure.&rdquo;

What a thing to live with.

Oh-h, but you&rsquo;re strong of character! You&rsquo;ve got what it
takes! Not only that, you have Jesus&rsquo; words to stand with you on
behalf of life. And so, you&rsquo;re going to use Jesus&rsquo; words to
overcome and cause the physical experience to misbehave and not abide by
the laws of physics. Not because that&rsquo;s the way everything should
be, but because with the power of God you can turn a negative experience
to your advantage &hellip; or for the &ldquo;Glory of God.&rdquo;

But what happens is, you have your miracle and you say, &ldquo;I live in
a physical, material universe. I am a physical, material being. I am an
organism. I really have nothing to do with God, I&rsquo;m not really in
this experience a manifestation of His perfection. I&rsquo;m a divine
entity in a physical experience.&rdquo;

And so you had a miracle and you are still locked into your physical
experience. You&rsquo;re still locked into the definitions and meanings
that are entwined in this elaborate frame that give you hope in spite of
the hopelessness of the picture in the middle.

And so, do you see the insanity of that? Do you see that such miracles,
if they are not lifting you out of a misunderstanding of life, if
they&rsquo;re not lifting you out of a belief that you&rsquo;re just a
physical organism&mdash;a divine being in a physical experience&mdash;if
you&rsquo;re not getting out of that, you&rsquo;re still on the
treadmill. You&rsquo;re still on the treadmill of sin, sickness and
death.

And that isn&rsquo;t what this is about. It&rsquo;s about getting off of
the treadmill!

There&rsquo;s no point in having a holy relationship if all it&rsquo;s
going to do is polish up the special relationship&mdash;the human
experience, life in the orphanage.

God is not here to make you a happy orphan. God is here to say,
&ldquo;This is my beloved Son, this is my beloved Daughter in whom I am
well pleased right now &hellip; right where you are! Even though you
call it a material world and universe, you are my holy Son or Daughter
and what you are calling a material universe is the Kingdom of Heaven
misperceived by you. I will say ninety-nine percent of what It really is
escaping your attention because of your devotion to the
misunderstandings of it that you have mutually agreed to with another
holy Son or Daughter of God. And I&rsquo;m here to tell you both, give
up on it. Stop doing that!

&ldquo;Join with me and remember your Birthright. Join with me and
rediscover who you Are. Join with me and watch sin, disease and death
become a lost memory.&rdquo;

Now:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The holy instant is a miniature of Heaven&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you know, a small picture.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The holy instant is a miniature of Heaven, sent you FROM Heaven.
</div>

When you say or decide that you want to experience the holy instant and
you do the two-step: You shut up, you become still, and then in the
absence of thinking, in the absence of reasserting the magnificent frame
around the limited tiny miserable experience of life that you&rsquo;re
having, instead of that, you simply say, &ldquo;Father, Holy Spirit,
what is the truth here? What is God&rsquo;s truth here?&rdquo;

Well, what happens first of all is that, as we&rsquo;ve talked about,
you experience silence. And what that really means is that suddenly
there&rsquo;s no ornate gilded convoluted, complicated frame in your
awareness embracing a negative, a picture of misery.

There&rsquo;s you without all of that seeming to be in a void reaching
out to the Father&mdash;consciously abandoning isolation. In that
silence in what seems like a void in the absence of this ornate huge
frame and all of its meanings and all of the things you have to remember
to keep everything straight and on and on and on, in the absence of
that, there is silence which I from time to time have referred to as a
pregnant silence&mdash;the womb of discovery, the womb of enlightenment.
And you&rsquo;re reaching out to your Source and wanting to know what
the truth is, separate and apart from all of the definitions you had
given everything in the creation of that frame, you provide no
interference, visual static that keeps you from seeing everything more
truly&hellip; everything that you&rsquo;ve called a material world
&hellip; what a table truly is, what a leaf truly is, what a hand truly
is, what a Brother or Sister truly is.

Without that huge frame and all the meanings that you have all agreed
to, there&rsquo;s nothing to stand in the way of the direct experience
&hellip; the simple direct experience of the divinity of everything and
provide yourself the avenue for Awakening.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The holy instant is a miniature of Heaven&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; which you initially experience as emptiness, [whispers] as
quietness, as peace from which love emerges, from which joy emerges for
no reason whatsoever. And they begin to illuminate your perceptions of
everything you had been seeing and calling matter and calling whatever
you all had decided the meanings of those things were.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is a picture, too&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the holy instant &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; set in a frame.
</div>

What is it set in the frame of? It&rsquo;s set in the frame of your
present perceptions of things. And at the moment when you are shifting
from the ornate frame and your mutual commitments to everything about
it, you&rsquo;re still doing it as though an entity in time is shifting
his or her attention from one thing to another. You see?

Certainly, when you&rsquo;re looking at the ornate frame of the special
relationship, you are a time oriented creature. But as you shift into
the holy instant where time is abandoned, it is still done within the
framework of time, because that is the context in which you&rsquo;re
doing this shift. It&rsquo;s the way you&rsquo;re conceiving of yourself
as you&rsquo;re making this shift from isolation to joining.

So it&rsquo;s &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; set in a frame.
</div>

The holy instant is set in a frame, not for long, but it&rsquo;s set in
a frame because you&rsquo;re looking from within a
frame&mdash;you&rsquo;re beginning the release of a frame from within a
frame.

So:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is a picture, too, set in a frame. Yet if you accept THIS
gift&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning the picture that is embraced in the holy instant
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you will not see the frame at all, because the gift can only be
accepted through your willingness to focus ALL your attention on the
PICTURE.
</div>

What&rsquo;s the picture? The picture is blank. It is a blankness into
which you say, &ldquo;Father, what is the truth here?&rdquo; It is a
blank picture. It is the allness and the infiniteness and the
non-materiality of eternity and infinity in which nothing obscures what
everything truly Is.

And so you look at this blank picture willing, we&rsquo;ll say, for
what&rsquo;s truly there to come forth and present Itself to you on Its
terms, not yours. And that&rsquo;s an entirely new expression of will,
not a will to get, not a will to create for yourself, but a will
&hellip; a willingness to have the Father present to you what&rsquo;s
Real &hellip; to have Reality &hellip; to have all of Creation convey to
you its infinite Meanings. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[Yet] if you accept THIS gift, you will not see the frame at all&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; time will disappear to you. Time will not be what will gather
your attention and it will not be that which defines you, because you
will find yourself taken up into a new experience of what&rsquo;s
Real&mdash;a truer experience of what is Real&mdash;and that you started
out to look at all of this from a sense of time will completely elude
you because the experience of truth will be so much more significant.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The holy instant is a miniature of eternity. It is a picture of
timelessness, set in a frame of time.
</div>

Meaning, set in your present means of experiencing everything, which is
as though you are a time-bound creature.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you focus on the picture, you will realize that it was only the frame
that made you think it WAS a picture. Without the frame, the picture is
seen as what it REPRESENTS.
</div>

In other words, if you thought it was a picture representing truth,
because you said, &ldquo;Father, what is the truth here?&rdquo; and the
truth dawned on you &hellip; if you thought that what dawned on you was
a picture of truth, you would quickly find that it is truth itself and
not a representation of it. Wonder of wonders.

The meaningfulness of God, of Creation and of your part in all of it,
will dawn on you fully as actuality, not an idea about Reality.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you focus on the picture&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning, the holy instant, the experience of revelation
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you will realize that it was only the frame that made you think
it WAS a picture. Without the frame, the picture is seen as what it
REPRESENTS.
</div>

In other words, the actuality of what a picture would have been a
picture of.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For as the whole thought system of the ego lies in its gifts&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the picture of the special relationship surrounded by this
incredible frame.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[For] as the whole thought system of the ego lies in its gifts&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning the picture in the center &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; so the whole of Heaven lies in this instant, borrowed from
eternity, and set in time for you.
</div>

In other words, when you reach out to ask to know what the truth is, the
truth will come and meet you, like the Father meeting the Prodigal Son,
not after you&rsquo;ve gotten home, but out in the wilderness where you
happened to be when you ask, when you reach out. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[For] as the whole thought system of the ego lies in its gifts, so the
whole of Heaven lies in this instant&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the holy instant, that is the miniature of Heaven &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; borrowed from eternity, and set in time for you.
</div>

You see? This is the good news. But you know what? As long as you think
that any part of the special relationship is of any kind of value, you
will not let it go completely, which means you will not embrace the
truth, you will not embrace that which releases you completely.

That&rsquo;s why it is so important not to gloss over the picture in the
center of the frame that gives your life all of its meaning, because the
frame says to you that the shit in the picture in the middle is a lie
and you can prove it to be a lie through your own efforts! And that is a
lie!

The picture is a lie about you. The picture in the center of this grand
frame is a lie about you. And you have to say, &ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;m
willing to abandon the lie. Father, I&rsquo;m willing to say Your Name
again. Father, I&rsquo;m willing to let You back into my experience
again because I know You are what gives me my Meaning as the Son or
Daughter of God and nothing else does.

&ldquo;Not all of the Sons and Daughters of God who are dreaming with me
in the orphanage, not all of them put together can cause any one of us
to become the holy Sons of God that we already Are. And in fact, every
effort we make to lift ourselves up by our boot-straps with commitment
and sealing it with emotion, all that will do is to secure us in the
orphanage until someone, some way, can find a way to get into the
orphanage and get our attention once again.&rdquo; That&rsquo;s it!

Doesn&rsquo;t that make you full of joy?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Two gifts are offered you.
</div>

We&rsquo;ve talked about there being only two points of view. You could
say the true and the false. You could say the infinite and the finite.
You could say the holy Son or Daughter of God with full capacity of His
Birthright, Her Birthright, or the orphan who has no Source, but finds
himself existing and finds himself existing in the middle of conflict
which because he exists and has vitality and energy and a mind, he must
have a way to cope with, because nothing would happen so radically
stupid as existence without purpose &hellip; right?

It&rsquo;s time to laugh and realize the freedom you have from such an
idea. And now you have the means of abandoning it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Two gifts are offered you. Each is complete, and cannot be partially
accepted. Each is a picture of all that you can have&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; each picture &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is a picture of all that you can have, seen VERY differently.
</div>

Each of the two are very different. In the one, you are an orphan and
you can see all that an orphan can have. But you know what? An orphan
cannot have a Royal Birthright. An orphan cannot have a Birthright of
inheritance of an ever-Present omnipresent, omnipotent loving Life
Source &hellip; right?

An orphan can have all that an orphan can have, but that&rsquo;s
something an orphan can&rsquo;t have even though it&rsquo;s something
that exists, and even though it is something that exists for every
orphan, because no orphan is an actual orphan.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Each is a picture of all that you can have, seen VERY differently. You
cannot compare their value by comparing a picture to a frame.
</div>

You know, Oh, the picture of holiness and ornate frame which embodies
all of the potentials for righteousness and success and intelligence and
recognition that an orphan can get. You see? You can&rsquo;t combine the
picture and the frame separate from the ones they&rsquo;re already in.
It cannot be done.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It must be the pictures only that you compare, or the comparison is
wholly without meaning.
</div>

So what you have to do is compare the miserable picture with the picture
that isn&rsquo;t really a picture, but is an actual experience of
Reality that has been let in when you have abandoned the defenses you
use to keep yourself from experiencing your divinity &hellip; from
experiencing God, from experiencing your Birthright.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Remember that it is the picture that is the gift.
</div>

Even the picture of misery. The picture of misery is the gift that is
given when one joins with another Brother, and together the two say,
&ldquo;We are going to give preference to our best thinking, our best
judgments no matter what Daddy said.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Remember that it is the picture that is the gift. And only on this basis
are you REALLY free to choose. Look at the pictures.
</div>

Not the frame. It doesn&rsquo;t say, not the frame. It says:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Look at the pictures. BOTH of them.
</div>

That&rsquo;s why I&rsquo;m spending so much time here talking about not
being afraid to be honest and quitting this habit of &ldquo;positive
thinking&rdquo; that glosses things over so that you can ignore the very
thing that would help you Wake up, which is a clear assessment that what
you&rsquo;ve been doing hasn&rsquo;t been working, especially when
something else has been given you as a means of getting out of that
misery.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
One is a tiny picture, hard to see at all beneath the heavy shadows of
its enormous and disproportionate enclosure.
</div>

See:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
One is a tiny picture&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; it isn&rsquo;t even a lot of misery that&rsquo;s shown. It
isn&rsquo;t really a lot of awfulness. It doesn&rsquo;t stand forty
stories high and three miles wide. It&rsquo;s a tiny picture with a huge
frame, full of your fullness, full of your pride, full of your
arrogance, full of all of you joining together and valuing your
ignorance and building upon it with greater and greater complexity. You
see?

I&rsquo;m not judging you and you shouldn&rsquo;t judge yourself. But it
will be very helpful to see that through ignorance you have been
employing ignorance and it hasn&rsquo;t been working. And thank God
someone is saying to you, &ldquo;Hey, it isn&rsquo;t working,&rdquo; so
you can look at it and say, &ldquo;Hey, sin, disease and death still
repeat themselves over and over in my life and in everybody&rsquo;s
life. Something &hellip; something isn&rsquo;t adding up here. I want to
see what adds up. I&rsquo;m going to try something different.&rdquo; You
see? That&rsquo;s the great benefit of this honesty we&rsquo;re talking
about.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
One is a tiny picture, hard to see at all beneath the heavy shadows of
its enormous and disproportionate enclosure. The other is lightly framed
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and that is a play on words. It is lightly framed, but it is
framed with light.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The other is lightly framed and hung in light, lovely to look upon for
what it IS.
</div>

You see? The other is not lovely to look on for what it is, that&rsquo;s
why the huge frame has been developed. But this one is lovely to look
upon.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You who have tried so hard, and are STILL trying, to fit the better
picture into the wrong frame &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you see &hellip; have the picture of Reality, the picture of
eternity put into the frame that has everything in it to make you
important and real and valid. That&rsquo;s a mistake. Because that which
wants to make itself feel important is that which knows it isn&rsquo;t
important. You see?

That&rsquo;s why all the effort has gone into the building of this
frame. But you as an orphan are not important and can&rsquo;t become
important. But you who see yourself as an orphan are not an orphan. And
your Birthright awaits you. But you have to abandon your commitment to
another, to believe meanings that you have created yourselves.

You&rsquo;ve got to stop valuing the special relationship, so that in
its absence, in the absence of the sealing of the commitment with
emotion, there&rsquo;s nothing present to continue to blind you, to keep
you from seeing Who your Father is and what the truth is about you and
everything.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You who have tried so hard, and are STILL trying, to fit the better
picture into the wrong frame and so combine what cannot BE combined,
accept this and be glad: These pictures are each framed perfectly for
what they represent. One is framed to be out of focus, and not seen. The
other is framed for perfect clarity. The picture of darkness and of
death grows less convincing as you search it out amid its wrappings.
</div>

As you search the picture out amid the wrappings of its ornate frame.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As each senseless stone which seems to shine in darkness from the frame
is exposed to light, it becomes dull and lifeless, and ceases to
distract you from the picture.
</div>

My intent is to help you not be distracted from the picture by the
frame.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And finally, you look upon the picture itself, seeing at last that,
unprotected by the frame, it HAS no meaning.
</div>

Why do you suppose that in your weaker moments when you look at things
and they don&rsquo;t look good you get depressed &hellip; why do you
suppose that is? Because there&rsquo;s no meaning embodied in what
you&rsquo;re seeing. And it&rsquo;s a miserable experience to have no
meaning in anything you&rsquo;re experiencing.

But you very quickly get onto your positive thinking
&ldquo;jackass&rdquo; and you give it a good kick with your heels and
you try to get it moving. Being a jackass, it doesn&rsquo;t always move
exactly when you want it to move and your misery lasts a little bit
longer. Or maybe this time the jackass is ready to move and it leaps
forward and you say, &ldquo;Wow, I knew there was a God! Life is
treating me right. I can have control.&rdquo;

And once again, you&rsquo;ve been riding this jackass for ages and you
ignore the fact that although it may move from time to time most of the
time it doesn&rsquo;t move at all. But you say, &ldquo;It will move
again! I know it will move again. And I&rsquo;m going to plug away here
until it moves. I&rsquo;m not going to get off this jackass. This is the
way I live. This-is-the-way-to-live.&rdquo;

Laugh with me at the ridiculousness of it. It&rsquo;s so ridiculous that
you can afford to put it down and not expect the world to collapse
around you. You can expect Reality to emerge right where you had been
seeing a mess, a miserable picture. That&rsquo;s what you can expect.
And that&rsquo;s what I&rsquo;m encouraging you all to risk the chance
to find out.

Hey, if you risk the chance, all the worst that can happen will be sin,
sickness and death continuing to repeat themselves. And you&rsquo;re
familiar with that&hellip; you can handle that, right? You&rsquo;re
handling it.

So, hey, risk the chance and have some fun doing it.

I&rsquo;m going to leave you with a little bit of a cliff-hanger, here.
See, we&rsquo;re just ready to start reading about the other picture
that&rsquo;s lightly framed&mdash;nice stuff to talk about. We&rsquo;ll
hold the nice stuff off until next week, because you&rsquo;re very sober
right now. You&rsquo;re not depressed, you are sober. And I want you to
stay in your sobriety for the coming week, considering what we&rsquo;re
talking about: hell, Heaven. It might not be another week you have to do
it, it might only be ten more minutes [snaps fingers] and you Wake up.

Well, you have the clarity that it&rsquo;s your Birthright to be
experiencing because you dared to have a little bit of fun about this,
while remaining very clear about the seriousness and the severity of the
special relationship.

I love every single one of you. And I look forward to be with the new
you next week.

Okay.

[^1]: T17.4 Perception and the Two Worlds

