---
title: Jun 26, 2011
ref: "T17.4 Perception and the Two Worlds"
alink: "/acim/text/17/chap1704/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

Well, we&rsquo;ve been talking about frames and pictures. In a way,
we&rsquo;ve talked more about frames. But as we&rsquo;ve spoke of last
week, the key is to look at the pictures because the frame, especially
the ornate one, is a distraction from something that it is essential for
you to see. Because if you see it, you will be in a position to have
your sanity return to you.

In seeing the picture for what it actually is, it will cause you to see
its valuelessness&mdash;it&rsquo;s meaninglessness&mdash;which will
bring you to &hellip; it will cause you to say, &ldquo;Wait a minute,
I&rsquo;m wasting my time here, I&rsquo;ve been fooled when I need to be
clear.&rdquo; And the energy and the gumption to take hold of your
attention so that you&rsquo;re consciously giving it where you want it
to be given will occur. So, that&rsquo;s why we&rsquo;ve spent a lot of
time talking about it.

Now, at the bottom line, what&rsquo;s in each of the pictures? You know,
the Course says, look at the picture &hellip; look at the picture
&hellip; ignore the frame &hellip; look at the picture!

Well, both pictures have one thing in them: A relationship. One&rsquo;s
a miserable relationship to which I know many of you can relate. And the
other is a superlative, blissful, wholly meaningful experience.

In the little picture with the ornate frame, the relationship is a
relationship between two Sons or Daughters or Sons and Daughters of God
who have chosen to get a divorce from their Father and see everything
through their own imaginations.

In this act of divorce, as we have spoken so many times, there was a
loss of memory as to who they Were. When they claimed their right to be
independent and acted upon it, sealed it with emotional commitment to
each other and their goal, they forgot who they Were. And everything
else that followed was illusory, was insanity experienced and
embellished &hellip; miserable.

Everyone who is not Awake today is living out that picture. But
here&rsquo;s the saving Grace: Someone is telling you that you are, in
spite of who you think you are, a holy Son or Daughter of God who has
chosen to actualize, if I may put it that way, to actualize a false
experience, a distorted biased experience of Reality. Reality
hasn&rsquo;t gone anywhere and who you really Are, hasn&rsquo;t changed.

But because of the commitment the two of you have and have made, you
absolutely blind yourself to the conscious realization and awareness of
your divinity. That is what makes the special relationship evil.
That&rsquo;s what makes it destructive. That&rsquo;s what makes it
something that you, with all due diligence need to be bringing your
attention and your will (which would have to be your divine will) to
abandon it&mdash;to cease energizing and validating it. Because in
validating it, you are validating something which keeps you insane.

You&rsquo;ve got to see this&mdash;else you won&rsquo;t&mdash;with vigor
and determination or even a light-hearted willingness that will follow
through. Abandon this that has meant so much to you, and shut-up and do
the two-step and engage in the holy instant.  That is the avenue of
freedom from this one picture&mdash;the picture of misery, the picture
that is evil, and escape it into your right Mind, into the contemplation
of the other picture.

Now, the other picture is likewise, a picture of a relationship.
It&rsquo;s your relationship with your Father. It&rsquo;s a picture that
hasn&rsquo;t gotten a lot of attention recently. But it&rsquo;s a
picture that is forever present with you and in you and you are
programmed to remember it and to be willing to give your attention fully
to it again.

And the program to accomplish that is called the Holy Spirit. It&rsquo;s
called: That which is nothing more than your right Mind, which no matter
how insane you have behaved, hasn&rsquo;t been altered in anyway. And
so, although you have behaved insanely, your sanity has been
ever-present with you and has been absolutely governing you.

It is there &hellip; the Holy Spirit is there with a purpose to carry
out Its faith in you by asserting Itself on your behalf, in your
experience whether you&rsquo;re listening for It or not, paying
attention to It or not. And in many cases, without your request but
because there is a weakness in your insanity, the Holy Spirit can turn
things to your advantage which were to your disadvantage.

But here&rsquo;s the big thing: If you will do the two-step, if you will
engage in the holy instant, if you will become still and say,
&ldquo;Father,&rdquo; or &ldquo;Holy Spirit, what is the truth
here?&rdquo; you open the door for what has already been programmed in
you. You remove the resistance that has kept It at bay. The picture,
this other picture &hellip; the relationship is between you and God.

Now, in both pictures, the relationship that is shown governs how all of
Creation is experienced.

When you are embracing your relationship with your Father and
acknowledging your Birthright as the Son or Daughter of God&mdash;a holy
one&mdash;you present no objection to the conscious embrace and
experience of Creation from the Father&rsquo;s Perspective, seeing
everything with the Meaning the Father has invested in it by virtue of
creating it.

On the other hand, in the other picture where the relationship is with a
Brother or a Sister whom you have chosen to join with in denial of your
Father and of Creation with the Meanings the Father has given it, all of
your experience is colored by that, and as a result you see nothing
truly. You don&rsquo;t see it as the Kingdom of Heaven. You don&rsquo;t
see it as the Father&rsquo;s Creation. You see it as simply a physical
manifestation of physical events in a physical universe that are purely
random, that have no intelligent design to them, and on and on.

Now, going into the book, we&rsquo;ve just spoken about the ornate frame
and the small picture in it and the call for looking at the picture and
not the frame, and it continues &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The other picture &hellip;[^1]
</div>

&hellip; the one without the ornate frame &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is lightly framed, for time cannot contain eternity.
</div>

Remember, Reality is what is present in this other picture. Because this
other picture is the relationship you have with your Father in which
your relationship is not denied in any way. So what&rsquo;s there is
eternity. What&rsquo;s there is Reality. What&rsquo;s there is Creation
in all of its perfection.

As I said last week, it only seems to be framed in time because you are
looking at the other picture in which everything is in time and your
frame of reference is time. So naturally, when you look at this other
picture from within time, you will think it is framed in time, even
though it isn&rsquo;t. The minute you say, &ldquo;But Father, I want to
know the truth here. I want to experience Your Perspective.&rdquo; The
moment you do that, you&rsquo;ve reached beyond time. You&rsquo;ve
stepped outside of time. You are ceasing to hold everything to the time
standard that you&rsquo;ve been using in your special relationship.

When you choose to look at this other picture, you&rsquo;re choosing to
abandon orphanhood. You&rsquo;re choosing to abandon the mutual
agreement you&rsquo;ve made with another to do that which blinds you to
your divinity.

And so &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The other picture is lightly framed, for time cannot contain eternity.
There IS no distraction here. The picture of Heaven and eternity grows
MORE convincing as you look at it.
</div>

Okay, if you want it to become more convincing, you&rsquo;ve got to look
at this picture more consistently.

What does that mean?

It means you&rsquo;ve got to look at your relationship with your Father
more consistently. You have to actually, instead of saying, &ldquo;Well,
everything that&rsquo;s happening is the Father&rsquo;s Will, everything
that&rsquo;s happening is for a holy purpose even if I don&rsquo;t know
what it is,&rdquo; instead of saying that, which claims that you know
&hellip;[chuckles] you know what&rsquo;s real, you say, &ldquo;In spite
of what I think &hellip; in spite of what I believe all of this is, in
spite of the fact that I believe that it&rsquo;s all Your handiwork,
what is the truth here Father?&rdquo; You see?

You must challenge any confidences you have about how things work and
certainly, you must challenge those things that occur that are a call
for correction. And beware of sort of giving cart blanche to these
things that call for correction by saying, &ldquo;Well, the Father will
&hellip; the Holy Spirit will turn it to my advantage.&rdquo; You see?
Or, &ldquo;The Father knows what He&rsquo;s doing, I will be patient and
let these things unfold on their own.&rdquo; No.

None of this has anything to do with becoming passive and just letting
life roll over you or roll past you or just sort of happen without any
commitment on your part being brought into play where you say,
&ldquo;Well, I can look at it this way and in fact, when I do it, it
seems somehow to be working better &hellip;&rdquo; But see, when you do
that, you&rsquo;re neglecting the key thing: You&rsquo;re neglecting
your part where you say, &ldquo;But, Father what is the truth here aside
from my best theories, aside from my best judgments, aside from the
conclusions I&rsquo;ve come to from past experience which says
You&rsquo;re doing this Father and it&rsquo;s all for a good purpose,
WHAT IS THE TRUTH HERE because I want to see the correction that the
call for correction is calling for.&rdquo; You see?

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The picture of Heaven and eternity grows MORE convincing as you look at
it.
</div>

Meaning as you more consistently look at it, as you dig a little deeper
into the Father, you might say, &ldquo;But Father, tell me more. But
Father give me more of an experience than I&rsquo;m presently having. I
want to experience the more of what You&rsquo;re Being right here. I
want to experience more of the Meaning of these things than I&rsquo;m
experiencing because sin, sickness and death haven&rsquo;t disappeared
from my experience. So I can&rsquo;t afford to just sit back and
passively let the movement of life occur, thinking it&rsquo;s You,
Father. I&rsquo;m going to push for the clearer evidence of it being
You, the clearer evidence that is going to show up as the end of an
aging process, that&rsquo;s going to show up as the correction of a
disease or the healing of a disease, or of more hair growing back on my
head or as less sag to my breasts or my derrière or my tummy.&rdquo; You
see? Where more of the equilibrium and balance and equipoise of being is
actually occurring, recognizable in a picture. You see?

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The picture of Heaven and eternity grows MORE convincing as you look at
it. And now, by REAL comparison, a transformation of both pictures can
at last occur. And each is given its rightful place, when both are seen
in relation to each other.
</div>

You see? The moment you can see that the miserable picture in the ornate
frame is a picture of a relationship of two misguided Sons or Daughters
of God who are believing what is unbelievable and untrue and are
therefore suffering sin, disease and death along with all the other
vagaries of life, and you likewise, because you&rsquo;ve been practicing
the holy instant, are experiencing the other picture and experiencing
yourself in your relationship with your Father which therefore qualifies
you as an inhabitant of the Kingdom of Heaven because you have
discovered you are and always have been a holy Son or Daughter of God,
in that clarity about the two pictures side by side, you become
disillusioned. You simply become disillusioned.

To be disillusioned is to be free of delusion, free of illusion,
it&rsquo;s to be back in your sane and right Mind. And that&rsquo;s the
point.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The dark picture, brought to light, is not perceived as fearful&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; of course, while you were only looking at it and believing the
frame and operating in your existence on the basis of all the details of
the frame, the experience was fearful. Fear and guilt, remember, came
into existence simultaneously the moment you acted on your decision to
divorce your Father.

But when you are willing to look at the two pictures and disregard the
frame, and you see the misery of the one and the unreality of it, you
might say, and the beauty of the other and its Reality and its new
definition of you, wow &hellip; the dark picture is not frightening
anymore because you&rsquo;re not fooled any more. And you can just
simply see that it&rsquo;s meaningless. Truly, you can simply see it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The dark picture, brought to light, is not perceived as fearful&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; even though forever it had been &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; but the fact that it is just a PICTURE is brought home at last.
</div>

&ldquo;Oh-h, my God, it&rsquo;s a picture of a &lsquo;Tidal Wave&rsquo;.
It&rsquo;s gonna get me, it&rsquo;s gonna get me! Oh-h no, it&rsquo;s
just a picture. [Chuckling] Whew!&rdquo; Okay &hellip; you see? When you
recognize that it&rsquo;s just a picture, all of the misunderstandings
that accompanied thinking it was real will immediately vanish and you
will immediately feel relief. That&rsquo;s just the way it works. And
that&rsquo;s what this is about. And that&rsquo;s why we&rsquo;re
talking about it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And what you see there you will recognize as what it is; a picture of
what you THOUGHT was real, and nothing more.
</div>

To be very specifically correct: It is a picture of what two of you
thought to be real and agreed were real and governed your actions and
emotions and talk, according to. You see? But again, it&rsquo;s a
picture of what you &hellip; the two of you thought was real, what you
imagined was real and nothing more.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For beyond this picture, you will see nothing.
</div>

When you take a view of Creation and then you back-off from it and
create a definition of it, and give new meanings to it, and you do this
in partnership with another, and the two of you begin to behave on the
basis of that &hellip; well, you&rsquo;ve withdrawn from Reality.
It&rsquo;s like you&rsquo;ve gone into a little box that you have filled
up with imaginations, and there is nothing behind it. You&rsquo;ve
withdrawn into a terrible, tiny state of privacy that there is nothing
beyond.

Now on the other hand &hellip; the other picture &hellip; well,
I&rsquo;m going to put it this way: I want you to imagine a wall.
You&rsquo;re in a small room. There&rsquo;s a wall and there are two
pictures. The room is dark. The fact (and you don&rsquo;t know about it)
but the fact is that there&rsquo;s a small picture with a large frame
&hellip; you know, on the wall in front of you. You don&rsquo;t know
it&rsquo;s there because it&rsquo;s dark. And next to it there is an
equally shaped and sized frame, you might say, that is a hole in the
wall where there&rsquo;s a piece of glass and there&rsquo;s also a
shutter behind it so you cannot see through it. And you sit there and
suddenly the light goes on in the room and the shutter opens on the
little window that&rsquo;s looking outside and then the light goes off
and the shutter closes again. And you say, &ldquo;Oh, I just saw two
pictures.&rdquo; You see?

The picture on the left with the ornate frame has nothing behind it.
It&rsquo;s just a piece of paper with an image printed on it or painted
on it or &hellip; you know, but there&rsquo;s nothing behind it, nothing
behind it. The other one though, when you are looking at it, you can
become confused about and think that because it does have a little frame
around it that it&rsquo;s also a picture, but you couldn&rsquo;t look at
it long enough to realize you were not seeing a picture on the wall but
looking through to something behind the frame, behind the place where a
picture appeared momentarily when the lights came on and the shutter
opened, before they closed. You see?

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; what you see there you will recognize as what it is; a picture
of what you THOUGHT was real, and nothing more.
</div>

That&rsquo;s the picture on the left.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For beyond this picture, you will see nothing.
</div>

That&rsquo;s the meaning of that. But in the holy instant you look and
you at first think you&rsquo;re looking at a picture in that moment of
communion with the Father or the Holy Spirit when you are inspired with
a clearer sense of Reality, you will still think you are looking at a
picture. But it isn&rsquo;t. There is something more than that. There is
something beyond that. There is something to the right and the left and
above and below and behind. And there are Sons and Daughters of God
living who are not caricatures of Sons and Daughters of God. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The picture of light&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the one on the right &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; in clearcut and unmistakable contrast, is transformed INTO what
lies beyond the picture.
</div>

In other words, the moment you begin to realize, &ldquo;Oh, wait a
minute, this is three-D, this is not a picture,&rdquo; then your
attention will be pulled beyond the frame. And so what you misunderstood
to be a picture becomes transformed in your mind by realization of the
truth of the situation that there is a greater Reality for you to let
yourself into. And you will abandon naturally the sense of there being a
picture. And you will move into the fuller experience of what the
Reality is that you had first thought was a picture.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As you look on this, you realize that it is NOT a picture, but a
REALITY. This is no figured representation of a thought system, but the
Thought Itself.
</div>

You see? It&rsquo;s not a caricature, it&rsquo;s not a definition made
out of nothing. It&rsquo;s Reality Itself. It&rsquo;s the Idea of
God&rsquo;s itself.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What it represents is THERE.
</div>

You see? A picture represents something that isn&rsquo;t there. But this
that you at first think is a picture, you realize represents what is
really there and is not a picture at all. This is you coming back into
your right Mind. This is you having clarity returned to you. This is you
coming into a full sense of the real Meaning of everything so that
it&rsquo;s no longer possible for you to feel fear and guilt because
you&rsquo;re experiencing everything as What it really Is.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The frame fades gently, and God rises to your remembrance&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the whole point of the holy instant, of the two-step &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; God rises to your remembrance&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; God&rsquo;s not brought to you for the first time. No, you knew
the truth, we&rsquo;ll say, in the beginning. You knew the truth before
you decided to play around in the realm of imagination. And even while
you played around in the realm of imagination you still knew the truth,
but not remembered. Now you&rsquo;re beginning to remember. That&rsquo;s
the whole point.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The frame fades gently, and &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what do you begin to remember?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; God rises to your remembrance, offering you the whole of
creation in exchange for your little picture, wholly without value and
entirely deprived of meaning.
</div>

You see? As you&rsquo;ve made this shift, and you have more diligently
and persistently chosen for the holy instant, Reality and Eternity have
become more interesting and a more desirable thing to give your
attention to. And everything that had meant something to you in the
other little picture with the ornate frame will begin to be utterly
meaningless. So meaningless that you find yourself not attracted to it,
not intrigued by it, not having any curiosity about it. You see? You
find yourself becoming free of it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As God ascends into His rightful place and you to
yours, you will experience again the MEANING of relationship, and know
it to be true.
{: .omit}

Let us ascend in peace together to the Father&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; now there&rsquo;s a key word there that you might overlook and
once again it&rsquo;s the foundation point. The meaning of the word is
&ldquo;relationship.&rdquo; The word is, &ldquo;us.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Let us ascend &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you might like the word &ldquo;ascend&rdquo; and the word
&ldquo;peace&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Let us ascend in peace together to the Father&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; but the key word is the word &ldquo;us.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Let us &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; who &hellip; you and me, who are choosing for the
Father&rsquo;s perspective.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Let us ascend in peace together to the Father, by &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; giving Him ascendance in our minds.
</div>

Whew! Yeah, I know, that makes it sound like you&rsquo;re going to have
to become some holy-something-or-other that&rsquo;s going to be some
kind of a weirdo. Anyone going around all day long with an awareness of
God in their mind and who are choosing to look at everything with the
intent of discovering God right there, well, that&rsquo;s got to be
somebody you don&rsquo;t want to be. That&rsquo;s got to be somebody
that will not fit in. And that is the conditioning &hellip; the evil
conditioning of the special relationship.

You&rsquo;re not going to become weird. You&rsquo;re going to be more in
touch with everything that&rsquo;s going on. You&rsquo;re going to
recognize when change needs to occur before there&rsquo;s a problem. You
are going to recognize what a Brother needs before he or she utters a
word. You see?

And so you will be able to be utterly appropriate in significantly
meaningful ways. But nothing that stands out like a sore thumb.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Let us ascend in peace together &hellip;

&hellip; by the Father &hellip;

&hellip; to the Father, by giving Him ascendance in our minds. We will
gain EVERYTHING by giving Him the power and the glory, and keeping no
illusions of where they are.
</div>

Where are the power and the glory? They&rsquo;re with the Father.
They&rsquo;re with that which is the Creator&mdash;the present, ongoing
every-Present Creator of existence, of you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
They are in US, through HIS ascendance.
</div>

Now does this mean that God is raising Himself up&mdash;ascending? No,
but in the ascendance of God in our minds, in the ascendance of your
willingness to give God your attention, that&rsquo;s how the glory and
the power show up in you, show up in us. It&rsquo;s that simple.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
They are in US, through HIS ascendance.
</div>

They are less in us when we choose for the special relationships, and we
are overwhelmed with guilt and fear.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What He has given is HIS.
</div>

When there are no illusions about that, you will let yourself be
infilled with His &hellip; with what He has given, because you
won&rsquo;t be claiming a right to do it on your own. It&rsquo;s that
simple.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What He has given is HIS. It shines in every part of Him, as in the
whole. The whole reality of your relationship with Him lies in OUR
relationship to one another.
</div>

Okay, so now you might say, &ldquo;Well, okay, maybe I won&rsquo;t be a
weirdo because I&rsquo;m thinking about God all the time and trying to
see God in my Brother and in everything and experiencing blessings from
that. So maybe I won&rsquo;t be such a weirdo because of that. But now
you&rsquo;re saying that the whole reality of our relationship with Him
lies in our relationship to one another. So now we&rsquo;re back to this
issue of caring and having to find our Brother and Sister to be worth
the time it takes to care and pay attention so that I might know because
of my connection with my Father what my Brother needs, what my Sister
needs, what fulfills purpose in our being in relationship to each other.

&ldquo;Yeah, so now I&rsquo;m going to instead of being the sort of
private individual who never got in anybody&rsquo;s way and who handled
himself in a way that at least was indirectly blessing to others, now
you want me to do things that are going to cause me to have a new
reputation, where people are going to say, &lsquo;Well, you know she was
quite a recluse &hellip; you know, in her later years she just sort of
faded into her apartment and &hellip; you know, but now you know what? .
. she&rsquo;s out and she&rsquo;s finding ways to actually be involved
with her Brothers and Sisters.  And you know what? I don&rsquo;t know
what&rsquo;s happened to her, but she is really spot-on or he is really
right on the beam with whatever he or she brings to the relationships
they are in or he or she are in.&rdquo; You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The whole reality of your relationship with Him &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in your relationship with the Father &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; lies in OUR relationship to one another.
</div>

You see? The Course spoke of, &ldquo;looking into your Brothers&rsquo;
eyes and remembering God.&rdquo; Well, that&rsquo;s the wonder of it.
It&rsquo;s also perhaps the one thing you hoped wouldn&rsquo;t have to
be part of it. You hoped that maybe you could just quietly let yourself
into the Kingdom of Heaven by not being an unpleasant presence in the
presence of others.

But now I&rsquo;m saying there&rsquo;s more to it than that. This
unpleasant aspect of actually having to be involved with each other is
coming into play. Because if you&rsquo;re not involved with each other
in the practice of wishing to see the Presence of God there and asking
God to reveal Himself there in your Brother and Sister &hellip; why? So
that you can become a transformational presence in their experience or
maybe not transformational, what about just meaningful as though maybe
joy and love and peace and pleasure in your involvements with others
might be what the whole thing is about, because in that you will
remember God and in that you will come back into your right Mind.

But you will come back into your right Mind, not because your right Mind
was important to you, but because your Brother or Sister&rsquo;s right
Mind was important to you. And so you devoted yourself to finding ways
to illuminate your Brother and Sister&rsquo;s right Mind. It&rsquo;s a
simple and simply beautiful arrangement that the Father has put in place
as the means of your coming Home.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The holy instant shines alike on all relationships, for in it they ARE
one. For here is only healing, ALREADY complete and perfect. For here is
God, and where He is only the perfect and complete CAN be.
</div>

It&rsquo;s the one place where God&rsquo;s laws govern. It&rsquo;s the
place where God&rsquo;s laws prevail. It&rsquo;s the place where harmony
and peace and joy and love are in escapable.

So, I know that in the recent past when I&rsquo;ve spoken about the holy
instant, you&rsquo;ve loved it. At this point, what the holy instant
means, what it stands for, what it&rsquo;s function is and what it will
release you from is clearer than ever before because we&rsquo;ve been
willing to look at the little picture with the ornate frame and instead
of letting the ornate frame distract us from the ugliness of the picture
itself, we&rsquo;ve been willing to look at the picture.

And the stark accurate recognition of what the picture is, is the most
significant thing you can take hold of to promote the willingness if not
the commitment to practice the holy instant, which you already love the
idea of. You just haven&rsquo;t had enough provocation. But now you do.

Now you can practice the holy instant with much more spontaneous
willingness and it will bless you greatly.

I love you all. And I look forward to being with you next week.

[^1]: T17.4 Perception and the Two Worlds

