---
title: Jul 9, 2011
ref: "Workbook: Lesson 23"
alink: "/acim/workbook/l023/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

This is me, Paul. And Raj has said for me to go ahead and say a few
words first.

My son, Chris, has said on occasion&mdash;when I didn&rsquo;t feel as
though I was as centered as I needed to be&mdash;he said, &ldquo;Hey,
you can&rsquo;t fail or succeed at having a meeting, you can just show
up. You&rsquo;re not called upon to do any more than that.&rdquo; And
so, I&rsquo;m showing up &hellip; I&rsquo;m showing up because I care
and because I do, I do need to connect with everyone.

For the last three weeks Raj has been dictating a letter. It isn&rsquo;t
that it&rsquo;s taking him that long, it&rsquo;s that it&rsquo;s been
difficult for me to be willing to hear the letter. It&rsquo;s still not
finished but the letter arises out of my need for answers that
I&rsquo;ve turned to Raj for. And what has triggered the
request&mdash;the need that has triggered the request&mdash;is one
that&rsquo;s well know to everyone who is on our mailing list or comes
to the website. And that is that we have, in the last year, purchased a
new property&mdash;a new house&mdash;for the Foundation to function out
of and the old one has needed to be prepared for sale and put on the
market to sell.

There has not been the means to prepare the house for sale. And so it is
almost a year since the new property was purchased and a loan that was
made to the Foundation at that time comes due in August. And it was to
be paid back by the sale of the house.

Now, this is me, Paul speaking, these are not the words of enlightenment
or wisdom and they&rsquo;re not the result of my having joined with Raj
and gotten an answer that has put me at ease. So if everyone thought I
have it easy because I&rsquo;m in touch with my guide &hellip;
&rsquo;tain&rsquo;t so. There are times that it&rsquo;s difficult for me
to stay in my peace.

Now, it happens that in this last week, both Susan and I have spent time
on Lesson 23 in the Workbook. And I&rsquo;m going to share it&mdash;not
the whole lesson, but the caption at the top:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&ldquo;I can escape from the world I see by giving up attack
thoughts.&rdquo;[^1]
</div>

I will read the first sentence because it&rsquo;s key. It says:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The idea for today contains the only way out of fear that will succeed.
</div>

Whew! Have many of you done a lesson and not had the result that the
lesson said would occur &hellip; if you did not have the result that was
supposed to result from having done the lesson?

I know intellectually that I can escape the world I see by giving up
attack thoughts and I can understand that that&rsquo;s the only way. But
when I seem to be faced with &hellip; well, let&rsquo;s say, threat,
let&rsquo;s say, a problem that I don&rsquo;t seem to have the means to
address, it&rsquo;s hard for me to let go of my fear even though I know
that my fear is caused by my forecasting a negative event. You see?
That&rsquo;s my attack thought&mdash;and then reacting to it.

Now, this is not to say that as I have worked with this lesson I
haven&rsquo;t had periods of peace. But I&rsquo;m here
tonight&mdash;it&rsquo;s time for the Study Group&mdash;and  I&rsquo;m
not in my peace and I&rsquo;m not about to give up practicing that
lesson.

I&rsquo;m reminded from time to time, that God is in His holy place and
all is well. That&rsquo;s the truth and that is comforting.

Now because of this need, I&rsquo;ve asked Raj if there&rsquo;s anything
he wishes to say that we could share, and so he started dictating a
letter. I&rsquo;m going to share what I have of the letter so far.
It&rsquo;s interesting to me because he&rsquo;s not saying, &ldquo;we
need to drum up some money&rdquo; he&rsquo;s talking about&mdash;which
is a surprise to me&mdash;he&rsquo;s talking about how things work, how
the Foundation works, how the work that we do works. No demands, just
elucidation.

So, it begins:

Dear Friends,

Everything single thing that Paul and I do, from the impulse which gives
rise to an act, to the action itself, is an unembellished gift of Love.
Every single expression of gratitude which is received in return is
acknowledged, appreciated and immediately applied to the meeting of
needs &hellip; the continuance of the gift. In this, the meaning of Gift
is realized&mdash;rendered actual in the world. It initiates and
implements as practical realism the statement, &ldquo;To have, give all
to all.&rdquo;

It is more than a novel way to conduct business&mdash;the way the
Foundation works&mdash;it is more than a novel way to conduct business.
It is no way to conduct business at all!

Business is a pattern of behavior established by mutual agreement to
maintain order between those who are unconscious, uninvolved and
therefore insensitive. This relieves them &hellip; business practices do
&hellip; this relieves them of the call for care, morality, honor and
respect&mdash;the Golden Rule&mdash;while protecting them from the
otherwise inevitable consequences of carelessness, immorality, dishonor
and disrespect.

When I say it relieves them of the call, I mean it protects them from
having to care for, honor, respect and be moral with others. It protects
them from expending the effort it takes. It protects them against
involvement, and therefore constitutes a most significant block to Love!

On the other hand, my insistence upon Gift being the center and
circumference of our activities, rather than &ldquo;simple
commerce,&rdquo; unequivocally calls these things into play, requiring a
level of involvement and attention one might not have expected or
desired.

And I suspect&mdash;this is Raj speaking now&mdash;and I suspect that
this is the case with many who are familiar with how we function. That
what I am calling for requires a level of involvement that hasn&rsquo;t
been expected&mdash;a participation that one isn&rsquo;t usually
required to participate in.

Why doesn&rsquo;t the Foundation just charge money? There are so many
people who are interested, they&rsquo;d be glad to pay the money. And
then we wouldn&rsquo;t have to think about it. You see? Then we
wouldn&rsquo;t have to remember. When we want something we just pay for
it…yes…yes, well that&rsquo;s sort of like being an orphan, isn&rsquo;t
it? It&rsquo;s like, you know, &ldquo;I can function quite well and
carry on in my daily activities without doing the two-step, without
going to the extra effort to remember God. I can function just fine
without constantly having to be consciously in a relationship where I
and the one I&rsquo;m in relationship are constantly referring back and
forth to each other about everything that&rsquo;s going on. I
don&rsquo;t have to &hellip; I mean, that&rsquo;s like getting married,
isn&rsquo;t it? I don&rsquo;t have to &hellip; I shouldn&rsquo;t have to
do that all day long with somebody who isn&rsquo;t even my wife or my
husband or my children &hellip; whew!&rdquo;

It protects them from expending the effort it takes, it protects them
against involvement and therefore&mdash;and this is the
problem&mdash;and therefore, constitutes a most significant block to
love.

You see, if we functioned like other non-profits, if we functioned like
a business, there could be a lot of activity without any involvement.
And that&rsquo;s really important! Because without involvement,
you&rsquo;re in a state of privacy. And the fact is, that your
experience of orphanhood, your experience of independence is because
you&rsquo;ve chosen to be independent, you&rsquo;ve chosen to be
isolated. You&rsquo;ve chosen not to have to engage in the normal
activity of relating with your Source, of identifying with your Source,
of letting your Source &ldquo;flesh you out,&rdquo; if I may put it that
way, and illuminate you in the fullness of who you Are as His Daughter
or Son.

Now, my insistence upon Gift being the center and circumference of our
activities rather than simple commerce, unequivocally calls these things
into play, requiring a level of involvement and attention one might not
have expected or desired.

Yet, such is the nature of miracle&mdash;a sudden shift of perception.

A sudden shift of perception means a sudden shift of devotion of
attention, as well as the shift of one&rsquo;s object of affection.

Again, a sudden shift of perception means a sudden shift of devotion of
attention, as well as the shift of one&rsquo;s object of affection. Both
attention and affection change.

Instead of &ldquo;self-protection&rdquo; being the object of one&rsquo;s
affection, it becomes the caring extension of love to another.

Your support of this work blesses others. And you could come at it
backwards and say, &ldquo;Because I care for another, I wish to bless
them with this gift.&rdquo; You see? Where it isn&rsquo;t your
appreciation of the Gift that prompts you to give it, but your concern
and your care about your Brother or Sister that prompts you to give it.
You see? There&rsquo;s a connection. There&rsquo;s love. There&rsquo;s
relationship. There&rsquo;s the end of privacy and it undoes the most
significant block to love, which is the absence of involvement.

And so again, I&rsquo;m going to read this:

A sudden shift of perception means a sudden shift of devotion of
attention&hellip;

Now mind you, you&rsquo;re all aware that the definition of a miracle is
a sudden shift of perception. Oh, well that could seem to be a different
viewpoint dawns in your mind. And you could think that that&rsquo;s a
private event or it&rsquo;s something that you could keep private
&hellip; &ldquo;Oh, I suddenly have a new perspective&mdash;nobody else
knows about it yet, but I do.&rdquo; Well, it&rsquo;s not a miracle yet
&hellip; it&rsquo;s  not a miracle yet, because a sudden shift of
perception means, in addition to the clarification, a change of
behavior.

A sudden shift of perception means a sudden shift of devotion of
attention, as well as the shift of one&rsquo;s object of affection.
Instead of &ldquo;self-protection&rdquo; being the object of one&rsquo;s
attention, it becomes the caring extension of love to another.

Not self-centeredness &hellip; you could say, other-centeredness. Not
you on your mind, but someone else on your mind who gets preferential
treatment because you care not to be alone, because you care to express
your care. You care to let your care be public.

Instead of &ldquo;self-protection&rdquo; being the object of one&rsquo;s
attention, it becomes the caring extension of love to another. Then
&hellip; we&rsquo;ve got that second thing called attention, then
protecting that other&rsquo;s holiness becomes the new devotion of
attention.

It&rsquo;s one thing to find awakened in you love for your Brother or
your Sister. It&rsquo;s a second step that needs to occur that takes you
out of the orphanage, out of the orphan mindset. And that is that
because you care about your Sister or Brother, you genuinely feel caring
about them. You now find it important to you to protect that other
one&rsquo;s holiness, to stand up for it, to give voice to it, to
witness to it, to treat them as though they are holy by loving them and
letting that love move into expression. That&rsquo;s the key.

In this instance I am illuminating this shift in the middle of what has
always been called a &ldquo;business transaction.&rdquo;

Non-profit corporations doing a spiritual work sell what they have to
offer because that allows the wheels to turn that allow production to
happen and so on. And also, because it is the time honored standard. You
see? And because it relieves everyone of the call to care for, honor,
respect and be moral with others and it protects them from expending the
effort it takes and it protects them against involvement. You see?
That&rsquo;s really why. It&rsquo;s much simpler &hellip; it&rsquo;s
much simpler.

In this instance I&rsquo;m illuminating this shift&mdash;the miracle,
the shift&mdash;in the middle of what has always been called a business
transaction. That there is hesitancy about this amongst everyone and a
confusion as to why it isn&rsquo;t just business as usual is
understandable but unhelpful if a miracle is happening. Important. And
this is relevant to every area of life.

Maintaining the status-quo in any respect &hellip; maintaining the
status-quo in any respect is the great inhibitor of miracles.

You see? So we&rsquo;re not just talking about doing things in a novel
way, we&rsquo;re talking about doing things in a new way that involves
caring about your Brother and then caring enough to protect their
holiness.

You know, the amount of leaven used is always disproportionately small
compared to the mass that is being leavened. And it could appear to the
skeptical that what I am insisting upon doing here is likewise
inconsequential at the most, even though it is actually quite
significant.

You know, one could say, &ldquo;Oh, big impact this is going to have.
Some little puny Foundation over there in the U.S. is doing things in a
novel way. But what effect can that have?&rdquo; Well you could say,
&ldquo;Yeah, one individual in Galilee only lived thirty-three years,
was a carpenter and a preacher of some sort &hellip; you know that was a
really small amount of leaven wasn&rsquo;t it. What effect could it
have? What impact could it have?&rdquo; Well, you know the answer to
that.

&hellip; the amount of leaven used is always disproportionately small
compared to the mass which is being leavened and it could appear to the
skeptical that what I am insisting upon doing here is likewise
inconsequential at the most, even though it is actually quite
significant. And it could also appear to be nothing more than a
&ldquo;slight of mind&rdquo; at the least&mdash;suggesting change when
none is actually occurring.

Yet, the Course says, &ldquo;There are no private thoughts.&rdquo;

Well &hellip;

Likewise, there are no private affections and there are no private
attentions. What gets your attention and affection weighs in the
universal balance. If you withdraw your affections from self-protection
it is reduced throughout the Brotherhood in those still valuing and
practicing it.

Do you see that?

When you withdraw your investment of faith and emotion in it, it lessens
the faith and emotion in it throughout the whole group, we&rsquo;ll say,
who have been finding it meaningful. They&rsquo;ve lost a valued
supporter. And so their resolve is weakened by your withdrawal.
It&rsquo;s as simple as that.

So it&rsquo;s not inconsequential what I&rsquo;m talking about, if this
shift occurs in each one, not just relative to the work we&rsquo;re
doing and the support it takes to keep it going, but in all areas of
your lives. You see?

If you withdraw your affection from self-protection it is reduced
throughout the Brotherhood in those still valuing and practicing it. And
if your devotion of attention shifts to the acknowledgement and
protection of your Brother&rsquo;s holiness, it likewise enriches the
affections of all of the Brotherhood in a more conscious union.

You are not powerless. You are not meaningless. And what you believe and
put your faith in constitutes you joining with others loving those same
beliefs or those same truths. And so it&rsquo;s important what you
choose.

So&hellip;

It is a simple truth needing only to be practiced.

Now &hellip;

The fact that one can feel the inconvenience of the care and involvement
which is inseparable from what I am teaching&mdash;because giving is the
only way he can have what he wants&mdash;demonstrates the fact that a
simple truth has been revealed and heard.

If it has been revealed and not heard no one would feel the
inconvenience of the care and the involvement. And no one would say,
&ldquo;Oh why can&rsquo;t they just charge something for what they do?
After all, with the outreach of the internet they can charge small
amounts and make millions of dollars because people will be willing to
pay it.&rdquo; You see? &ldquo;Oh them &hellip; they&rsquo;ll pay it
&hellip; them, huh &hellip; not me. I won&rsquo;t have to be
involved.&rdquo; You see? &ldquo;I&rsquo;ll pay it when I get my bill.
I&rsquo;ll gladly pay it. But I won&rsquo;t care enough to do it without
the bill. I won&rsquo;t embrace my Brother and be conscious of my
Brother enough to find his holiness worth supporting by making a
gift.&rdquo; You see?

Now am I saying all of this to make anyone feel guilty, or put the touch
on their wallet? No! As you can see I&rsquo;m talking about a miracle.
I&rsquo;m talking about a shift of perception. I&rsquo;m talking about
an inner action, one that gets translated into outward expressions where
connection actually occurs, and where isolation is broken, abandoned,
not employed, because something else is more important to that one.

So &hellip;

The fact that one can feel the inconvenience of the care and involvement
which is inseparable from what I am teaching &hellip;

&hellip; you see, by my saying everything is a gift, you can&rsquo;t buy
it. The only way you can have it is by it being a Gift to you. And Gift
must be the arena, the wholeness of the involvement.

The fact that one can feel the inconvenience of the care and involvement
which is inseparable from what I am teaching&mdash;because giving is the
only way he can have what he wants&mdash;demonstrates the fact that a
simple truth has been revealed and heard. The familiar blocks have been
rendered meaningless&mdash;and you don&rsquo;t like it&mdash;and growth
is required.

Again, perhaps a little bit more than you were considering having to
give, a little bit more involvement than you thought you would have to
engage in &hellip; you know &hellip; like growing, like actually
changing, like actually adopting a new way of being.

It is consistent with what I am teaching and what the Course
illuminates: To take the steps which remove the blocks to love, not
complain about them.

Take the steps which remove the blocks to love. Important. You see?

What I&rsquo;ve been talking about for the last few weeks involves
something more than just a shift in your mind. It involves a shift in
your behavior and a shift in your motivation. That&rsquo;s called
growing, that&rsquo;s called change.

It makes sense to change motives and behaviors when truth is revealed
and heard, whether the adjustment is &ldquo;convenient&rdquo; or not.
You see?

Hm-m, a poor little boy learning how to play the piano, his teacher
said, &ldquo;You need to practice harder.&rdquo; Oh, that&rsquo;s not
convenient. &ldquo;I wasn&rsquo;t bargaining for that! That takes a
whole lot more than what I planned to give in terms of learning to play
the piano. That&rsquo;s just not convenient!&rdquo;

&ldquo;Well, I&rsquo;m sorry, young man, but if you want to learn how to
play the piano, you will have to engage in the inconvenient. And
you&rsquo;ll have to practice harder. You&rsquo;ll have to practice
longer. You&rsquo;ll have to pay more specific attention to what
you&rsquo;re doing so that you might master the movement or the tone or
the grace that&rsquo;s called for in the music you&rsquo;re
playing.&rdquo; You see?

After all, new motives and behaviors are the natural result of sudden
shifts of perception&mdash;of miracles.

And there it is: New motives and behaviors are the natural result, they
should be the expected result of sudden shifts of perception.

So &hellip; and this is not Paul talking any longer.

The call here is for a new way to be &hellip; a new way to be with each
other. This is just the focal point, but it&rsquo;s for you to take into
your relationships with everyone. Oh-h, do you feel overwhelmed at the
possibility? Well, I understand. But it&rsquo;s natural to love. And
when you dare to do the inconvenient thing, you&rsquo;ll find your
capacity being illuminated to you. And you will not be exhausted by
caring, you will not be exhausted by the inexhaustible love that abides
in you because the Father is putting it there at every moment.

Now, I will finish this letter with Paul, because I want him to continue
to listen for it. I want him to continue to do what feels inconvenient
to him to do, because this is valuable learning for him and for everyone
else.

As Paul said when he first started tonight: There is a need. There is a
very practical need to pay-off a loan and sell a property that no longer
serves purpose. It is a good thing to have happen. The property needs to
be cleaned up and somewhat refurbished in preparation for sale. And
those are the simple facts.

And I&rsquo;m glad everyone knows. And as soon as the rest of the letter
is done, it will be shared with everyone on the web site and by e-mail.
And I thank you for taking your time tonight to listen, because this
shift of perception is indeed a significant miracle which will reach
farther than you can imagine.

I love you all. And I look forward to being with you next time.

[^1]: Workbook Lesson 23

