---
title: Jul 16, 2011
ref: "T17.5 The Healed Relationship"
alink: "/acim/text/17/chap1705/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

What we&rsquo;ve been talking at length about, the unholy relationship
and the meaning of those words I have expressed, is a relationship with
someone or something in which you find God nowhere to be found. Where
your divinity and the divinity of your Brother or the divinity of
anything escapes your attention completely&mdash;doesn&rsquo;t occupy it
at all&mdash;because you, in your relationship with everything, are
giving definitions to it that have nothing to do with God &hellip; hence
you find nothing there expressive of God. Your definitions don&rsquo;t
allow it.

Now we&rsquo;ve also been talking about the two pictures. And although
one of them has a very ornate frame, which gets all of your attention,
we&rsquo;ve talked about the necessity of bringing your attention to the
pictures ignoring the frame. And the fact that fundamentally, the same
thing is in each picture: A relationship&mdash;an unholy relationship
and (we haven&rsquo;t used the words in recent weeks) a holy
relationship in the other.

As we go along, you find yourself invited like further and further into
something you didn&rsquo;t know you were going to be encountering. A
Course In Miracles is not a literary work to be read like other books.
It is an expression of ideas, the intent of which are to cause movement
in you and move you from one perspective of yourself and the world into
another. In other words, to promote actual change.

Recently you may have felt as though I have been pressing for a lot more
change than ever before. And you might be surprised at it. But it is
important. And although change isn&rsquo;t always fun, it&rsquo;s always
essential. And facing that with courage is where you find yourselves
now. That is where we are in the process and it&rsquo;s necessary not to
cringe or at least not withdraw in the face of the call for
change&mdash;the call for growth that we find ourselves at.

It&rsquo;s very important not to misunderstand what&rsquo;s happening
and assume that something must be wrong because there&rsquo;s a certain
amount of discomfort associated with where we are in the process.

Now, this new section is entitled:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*The Healed Relationship*[^1]
</div>

Well, we&rsquo;ve been talking for weeks now about doing the two-step,
haven&rsquo;t we? About entering into the holy instant because the holy
instant, you could say, is the stepping-stone out of the human
condition. It&rsquo;s the stepping-stone out of sin, sickness and
death&mdash;suffering. It&rsquo;s the stepping-stone into that place
where God&rsquo;s laws prevail. And as a result, you are never
confronted with sin, disease or death, lack, fear, any of these things.
You see?

Now, always I&rsquo;ve suggested that in the practice of the two-step,
you become still, you stop your incessant thinking and in the quietness
you say, &ldquo;Father, what is the truth here?&rdquo; Now think about
it. When you say, &ldquo;Father what is the truth here?&rdquo;
you&rsquo;re obviously meaning what is the truth relative to this
situation, what is the truth relative to what&rsquo;s happening with
these things, what&rsquo;s the truth relative to what these things seem
to be doing? You see? The question always has to do with something
you&rsquo;re in relationship with.

By now it should be obvious to you that the subject, the focal point of
A Course In Miracles, is relationships.

Now we&rsquo;ve described at length what an unholy relationship is, what
its characteristics are, what its uses are, how you use it, and on and
on. We haven&rsquo;t talked a lot about a holy relationship. But you
could imagine that if you&rsquo;re going to shift from an unholy
relationship to a holy relationship, it&rsquo;s going to involve your
having said, &ldquo;Father, what is the truth here about this
relationship?&rdquo; And you might imagine that the answer will be an
intellectual explanation so that you might understand what the truth is
here about this relationship.

And I&rsquo;m here to tell you tonight that the truth about a
relationship is not a head-trip. The truth about relationship is
involvement. The truth about relationship is your heart, your nature as
Love Itself, which is placed in you by the Father because you are His
Self expressed and He is Love. And this Love that you Are must come into
play. It must find expression in you as feeling, as caring, as
affection, as thoughtfulness &hellip; you see?&hellip; something far
more than an intellectual understanding.

&ldquo;Oh-h, well you&rsquo;ve been studying the Course and I&rsquo;m
studying the Course&mdash;we&rsquo;re prime candidates for engaging in a
holy relationship &hellip;&rdquo;

Well, you could approach it that way and you could approach it as though
you were going to bring into play all the things that the two you think
a holy relationship is. Head-trip &hellip; head-trip &hellip; head-trip
&hellip; no connection &hellip; no connection. An interaction based upon
head-trip &hellip; head-trip &hellip; head-trip times two because both
of you are doing head-trip &hellip; head-trip &hellip; head-trip. You
see?

Now what have we been talking about for quite awhile now? We&rsquo;ve
been talking about the two-step and the holy instant. We&rsquo;ve been
talking about not interacting first with the thing you&rsquo;re in
relationship with, but going within first and connecting with the Father
or connecting with the Holy Spirit. Being still, stopping your thinking,
enquiring, &ldquo;What is the Father&rsquo;s Perspective now regarding
this?&rdquo;

Now while you&rsquo;re doing this, you&rsquo;ve set aside your
interactions. You&rsquo;ve set aside whatever allegiances you have with
this thing you&rsquo;re in relationship with because you don&rsquo;t
want your preoccupations or their preoccupations to get in the way of
what the answer will be through your quiet, genuine inquiry:
&ldquo;Father, Holy Spirit, what is the truth here?&rdquo;

The Holy Spirit will respond and communicate with you, I will say, in
the form of communion&mdash;an inner definite communication that is more
than just words but is a communication of feeling and meaning that does
something to your mind. It clears out the fog. It clears out the
clutter. It simplifies, you might say, the viewing area&mdash;the area
of consciousness&mdash;and reveals to you God&rsquo;s truth relative to
whatever you&rsquo;ve asked about.

And this changes you. Important.

The realization that occurs in you causes you to behave in a different
manner than the way you behaved without engaging in the two-step or the
holy instant. Now in your relationship with another, what comes out of
your mouth is characteristic of a holy relationship. It&rsquo;s not a
planned behavior, it&rsquo;s not a patterned or habitual behavior.
It&rsquo;s a behavior in the moment that arises out of fresh, clear,
conscious awareness of what you&rsquo;re involved in, what you&rsquo;re
involved with, with a perspective far beyond your puny little private
intellectual capacities.

Now there&rsquo;s something else. A holy relationship isn&rsquo;t a nice
substitute or alternative to an unholy relationship.

&ldquo;Oh-h, we&rsquo;ve been having an unholy relationship, let&rsquo;s
have a holy relationship!&rdquo;

No. You may choose to engage in a holy relationship in the manner that I
just spoke of, which isn&rsquo;t by plan. But it&rsquo;s going to be
more than just having a new different kind of relationship&mdash;one
that&rsquo;s at a higher plateau of being. No. The thing is, that a holy
relationship is the only means you have for going Home or for coming
Home. It is absolutely humungously meaningful. It is the bottom-line
absolute and only way to come Home, to Wake up, to come back into your
right Mind. It&rsquo;s not just a nice alternative to an unholy
relationship.

No. It&rsquo;s not just a nice alternative to an unholy relationship.
It&rsquo;s the most momentous singular act that you can engage in.
It&rsquo;s the act that lets you walk out of the insane asylum.
It&rsquo;s the act that brings you into the arena where God&rsquo;s laws
prevail.

It&rsquo;s the act that annihilates sin, sickness and death.

It&rsquo;s the act that illuminates everything as the Kingdom of Heaven
that it always has been but which you didn&rsquo;t see when you were
choosing valiantly and with great courage to try to do the impossible
and be an independent agent becoming something valid and actual without
having a relationship with your Source. You see?

Yeah, I know &hellip; you&rsquo;ve been reading A Course In Miracles.
And you&rsquo;ve read about unholy relationships and holy relationships
&hellip; it&rsquo;s very interesting isn&rsquo;t it. Stimulating. But
you&rsquo;ve got to realize that it&rsquo;s something far more valuable
than a source of stimulation. It involves in its exposure of ideas, your
discovering how to do the one thing that will return your sanity to you
and cause you to become free of all of the things that you have felt
were unjust and inappropriate for you to be bound by, like chance and
fate and victimization, and accident and illness and mean-spiritedness.

Whether you could justify the feeling or not, you all have felt that
these represent something invalid, that you shouldn&rsquo;t be actually
subject to them and that actually there must be a way to get beyond
them. Well, there is and it&rsquo;s here. But it&rsquo;s going to mean,
as we&rsquo;ve been talking about, actually changing&mdash;actually
being in a new way and being it with a Brother or a Sister.

Now I have shared that relationships are with everything: Brothers and
Sisters, plants, inanimate objects, animate objects. Inanimate objects
don&rsquo;t join with you, as I&rsquo;ve said. They don&rsquo;t join
with you in your false assessments&mdash;the imaginative meanings that
you&rsquo;ve given to them. But animate objects, especially ones that
you would call sentient or conscious, are different. Because abandoning
an unholy relationship with them requires interacting with whatever game
playing they&rsquo;re engaged in &hellip; whatever roster of definitions
that they have applied to their world which of course, you&rsquo;re part
of. And so, there are definitions of you as well, and there are purposes
to which they put their mind to manipulate you to get what they want
that they think you have and so on.

So it gets a little, shall I say, messier&mdash;a little bit more
complicated. And it&rsquo;s not uncommon for everyone to find a way to
behave with your animate relationships as though they&rsquo;re
inanimate. You try to turn them into inanimate things and get them to
behave according to rules rather than their heart or their emotion.

Now:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The holy relationship &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; it says here &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is the expression of the holy instant in living in this world.

The holy relationship is the expression of the holy instant
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; stop. Become still. Ask the Father or the Holy Spirit,
&ldquo;What is the truth here?&rdquo; The truth is revealed with meaning
and feeling. But until it&rsquo;s expressed, you might say, it might as
well not have happened.

Now that&rsquo;s not true actually, because it does sit there as an
experience for you to actualize by expressing it. But all of you must
become clear on this. It&rsquo;s the expression of what becomes known in
the holy instant that actualizes the whole reason for there being the
provision of the holy instant. Because when it&rsquo;s expressed,
it&rsquo;s actualized and it becomes change&mdash;change manifest.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The holy relationship is the expression of the holy instant &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the holy instant discloses things to you, you become aware of
them, of the meaning and the feeling and then you express it in the
world&mdash;in the world that you have been calling a physical world
arising from a big bang but which is actually the Kingdom of Heaven. And
in your actualizing it in this way, in the world, you are doing exactly
what it takes to illuminate this &ldquo;big-bang&rdquo; world as what it
truly Is, the Kingdom of Heaven.

It causes your relationship with things and with others to become holy.
And it causes your affection to be transformed so that you are intent
upon acknowledging and upholding and witnessing to that which is holy
and whatever you&rsquo;re in relationship with. And your intent is to
uphold that rather than tear it down. And of course, tearing it down
was, at the bottom line, your goal in the unholy relationship because,
as we said, it&rsquo;s the goal of the unholy relationship to keep God
out of the picture, which means it is its goal to keep you unconscious
of your divinity, of who you truly Are&mdash;and as I said, that is
evil. And that is what the holy instant lifts you out of. That is
It&rsquo;s purpose. The holy relationship is a consummation of that.
Very important.

It&rsquo;s the most important thing! The holy relationship is the most
important thing that exists for orphans&mdash;for those who are not
Awake.

Again, going into the book &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The holy relationship is the expression of the holy instant in living
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; like actualized &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; in living in this world. Like everything about salvation, the
holy instant is a practical device, witnessed to by &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; its results.
</div>

The manifestation, the actualization, the expression. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The holy instant NEVER fails.
</div>

You may fail in abiding in the holy instant long enough for the Holy
Spirit to register with you, but the holy instant, if you let it
register with you, never fails in its function to disclose to you what
the truth is here in your relationship so that it might be actualized as
the holy relationship that it is.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The holy instant NEVER fails. The experience of it is ALWAYS felt. Yet
without &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; expression&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you see? Keep in mind that all of this is relevant to and
relative to, because it&rsquo;s related to everything. The holy instant
has as its function, to illuminate the holy relationship. And the holy
relationship is the experience of your having, as an orphan, become
still and having reached outside of the walls of the orphanage by
saying, &ldquo;Father, what is the truth here?&rdquo; hearing the
Meaning of the answer and feeling it and being moved to act upon it and
behave toward what you&rsquo;re in relationship with as though
it&rsquo;s holy and to reinforce its holiness by not engaging in
anything opposed to it. So that your every action is a confirmation of,
not the orphan mentality that your Brother might be employing, but the
divine one that he is that your reinforcement of, that your witnessing
for, allows him to embrace with perhaps a little bit of confidence or a
lot of confidence. You see?

That&rsquo;s actualization. That&rsquo;s the holy instant causing the
expression of the realization of God&rsquo;s truth and uncovering and
illuminating the holiness of the relationship with whatever it is that
prompted you to engage in the holy instant.

This is the practical device&mdash;the mechanism&mdash;by which the
transition from dreaming to being Awake is effected. This is the way it
occurs.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The experience of it is ALWAYS felt. Yet without expression, it is not
REMEMBERED.
</div>

Important. Here&rsquo;s the way it works: When you engage in expressing
the meaning that has been revealed to you as a result of having engaged
in the holy instant, it, for lack of better words, jogs your memory and
you remember the truth, you remember the holiness of your Brother, you
remember the experience of experiencing the holiness of your Brother
because you&rsquo;ve had the experience before. You&rsquo;ve had the
experience before you chose to say, &ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;d rather do
it my way. Father, I&rsquo;d rather give the meanings to everything.
Father, I want a divorce.&rdquo;

Before that, these experiences that we&rsquo;re talking about
you&rsquo;re coming back into an experience of, were always yours. And
so that it&rsquo;s like a spiritually visceral remembering of that which
you already knew and have always known, [snaps fingers] clicks into
place in you.

Listen again:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The holy instant NEVER fails. The experience of it is ALWAYS felt. Yet
without expression, it is not REMEMBERED.
</div>

When it gets expressed, your memory opens up and you remember what you
knew before. And there&rsquo;s nothing intellectual about it. It
isn&rsquo;t a head-trip at all. You see? This is the kind of change
we&rsquo;re talking about. This is what coming back into your right Mind
means.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The holy relationship is a constant reminder of the experience in which
the relationship became what it is.
</div>

The holy relationship &hellip; this experience of being sane, this
experience of Knowing the truth about your Brother or Sister and
therefore about yourself, as long as it&rsquo;s present, it&rsquo;s a
reminder of how it came to be remembered, it&rsquo;s a reminder of the
holy instant. And the fact that the holy instant is the one and only
thing it takes to get out of the crab barrel, to get out of the
orphanage, to get out of the orphan mindset, to get out of fear, to get
out of sin, sickness and death, anxiety, jealousy, mean-spiritedness,
self-protection, it keeps in place the remembrance of what it took and
all it took, which wasn&rsquo;t nearly as much as you might have thought
it would take.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And as the unholy relationship is a continuing hymn of hate in praise of
ITS maker, so is the holy relationship a happy song of praise to the
Redeemer of relationships.
</div>

What&rsquo;s the Redeemer relationships? The Holy Spirit. What is the
Holy Spirit? Nothing more than your right Mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The holy relationship, a major step toward the perception of the real
world, is learned.
</div>

It can&rsquo;t be remembered because it hasn&rsquo;t happened before.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The holy relationship, a major step toward the perception of the real
world, is learned.
</div>

And this is important:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is the old, unholy relationship, transformed and seen anew.
</div>

The simple fact is there are not two &ldquo;you&rsquo;s&rdquo; &hellip;
there are not two of you&mdash;a holy one and an unholy one.
There&rsquo;s only you seeing yourself through a glass darkly or seeing
yourself clearly. So if you&rsquo;re seeing yourself through a glass
darkly, clarity is going to have to insert itself and become present and
active and transformational in the glass darkly frame of mind. You see?

So, the insane you is going to discover sanity right in the middle of
what had seemed to be insanity, because there&rsquo;s just you.
It&rsquo;s important.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The holy relationship, a major step toward the perception of the real
world, is learned. It is the old, unholy relationship&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the self same one &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; transformed and seen anew. The holy relationship is a
phenomenal teaching accomplishment. In all its aspects, as it begins,
develops and becomes accomplished&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; expressed &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; it represents the REVERSAL of the unholy relationship.
</div>

In other words, it&rsquo;s you in your unholy relationship mode being
changed&mdash;allowing yourself to be transformed by the renewing of
your Mind, by the remembering of what you&rsquo;ve always Known, but
what you have successfully blocked from view.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Be comforted in this; the only difficult phase is the beginning. For
here, the goal of the relationship is abruptly shifted to the exact
opposite of what it was.
</div>

This means you having to adopt a new goal that is the exact opposite of
what your goal had previously been. This is very involving of you
&hellip; of you &hellip; of each of you. And at the same time the means
by which it is involving for you is that you must become involved with
your Brother or Sister. You can&rsquo;t do this privately. You can only
do it in the context of the relationship. And right now you&rsquo;re
starting out doing this in the context of your current understanding of
relationships and that understanding is an unholy relationship.

You might think it will be as impossible as lifting yourself up by your
boot-straps. The only thing is, you don&rsquo;t have to do that. You
don&rsquo;t have to do it with the part of your mind that you separated
off from the rest and said, &ldquo;This is me and everything in this
area of my awareness is what&rsquo;s real.&rdquo; No! The disowned part
is the Holy Spirit. It is waiting for your attention to come back to It
so that It can respond and make whole all of you that was never ever
actually divided up.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; here, the goal of the relationship is abruptly shifted to the
exact opposite of what it was. This is the first result of offering the
relationship to the Holy Spirit, to use for His purposes.
</div>

Now, you may have read this in the past as though it&rsquo;s talking
about your relationship with your partner or your relationship with
another human being and that the first result of offering the
relationship to the Holy Spirit to use for His purposes is what will
bring the result you need.

Now, offering the relationship to the Holy Spirit doesn&rsquo;t mean
embracing your cherished one in your mind and saying, &ldquo;I am
bringing us to you, Holy Spirit, so that we might have a holy
relationship.&rdquo; It has to do with something we&rsquo;ve been saying
over and over: It is you stepping back from your cherished one or your
cherished things, or your stable life-style that is essential you think,
and says something about you &hellip; it is necessary to step back from
them all into the quiet to say, &ldquo;Father, separate and apart from
any of the meanings or definitions I have applied to all of these
things, what is the truth here? I want to learn Your perspective.&rdquo;

So, if you are going to inquire, minus your meanings and definitions and
so on, it means minus the meaning that says, &ldquo;This is my cherished
one. I want for my cherished one and I to stand and have our
relationship become holy.&rdquo; That&rsquo;s too much of you.
That&rsquo;s too much of your thinking. That&rsquo;s too much of the
orphan mindset. You&rsquo;ve got meanings that you&rsquo;ve applied to
it. And you don&rsquo;t know how much or whether or not any of it
coincides with the Father&rsquo;s perspective&mdash;with the divine
truth.

So, offering the relationship to the Holy Spirit really means
you&rsquo;re stepping back from the relationship and all of the meanings
that you have given to it and which are affecting you and saying,
&ldquo;Father, in spite of what I&rsquo;m experiencing, instead of the
way I&rsquo;m experiencing it, what is the truth here?&rdquo; &hellip;
because you don&rsquo;t want your response to arise out of your
conditioned thinking because that&rsquo;s not fresh, it&rsquo;s not the
Father&rsquo;s perspective in the moment, it&rsquo;s not the vitality of
the Movement of Creation now &hellip; now &hellip; now. And that&rsquo;s
the promise. That&rsquo;s what the holy instant is for. And that&rsquo;s
what the holy relationship will be about.

And not only that, your abandonment of your best definitions and
meanings and theories and concepts, which will allow the holy
relationship to occur, is the means by which you actually and
effectively initiate your movement Home. You see? You must embrace a
larger picture than just you and your cherished one, that you want to
have a holy relationship with, because it&rsquo;s not just about having
a holy relationship with your special one, or finding the special one
that&rsquo;s waiting out there for you &hellip; you see? . . to cherish.

Your Brother is your means for Waking up. Your Brother therefore, is
your savior, and you are your Brother&rsquo;s savior. Your relationships
are the threshold of your movement Home. Simple &hellip; profound.

Now, the invitation to the Holy Spirit to use your relationship with
whatever it is that&rsquo;s prompted you to turn to the Holy Spirit
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This invitation is accepted immediately, and the Holy Spirit wastes no
time in introducing the practical results of asking Him to enter.
</div>

You see? You might not have thought that you were asking the Holy Spirit
to enter when you became still and said, &ldquo;Father,&rdquo; or
&ldquo;Holy Spirit, what is the truth here?&rdquo; You might not have
thought of that as inviting the Holy Spirit in, but you were. You were
dropping the barriers, the boundaries. You were saying,
&ldquo;You&rsquo;re welcome here where you hadn&rsquo;t been awhile ago
because I was spending too much time thinking about exactly what I
wanted to think about and You weren&rsquo;t part of it.&rdquo; You see?
So:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This invitation is accepted immediately, and the Holy Spirit wastes no
time in introducing the practical results of asking Him to enter. AT
ONCE His goal replaces yours.
</div>

Mind you, the Holy Spirit is nothing more than your right Mind,
therefore, your right Mind&rsquo;s goal replaces your wrong mind&rsquo;s
goal. Do you see the integrity of that? Immediately it undoes your tiny,
mean-spirited, mis-directed, unintelligent frame of mind, thus bringing
integrity to you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is accomplished very rapidly, but it makes the relationship seem
disturbed, disjunctive and even quite distressing.
</div>

And this is talking about a partner, another sentient being. And
it&rsquo;s important to understand this. Listen again:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is accomplished very rapidly, but it makes the relationship seem
disturbed, disjunctive and even quite distressing. The reason is quite
clear. For the relationship as it IS is out of line with its own goal,
and clearly unsuited to the purpose which has been accepted for it.
</div>

What does that mean? Not totally clear? What it means is that the goal
of the independent authorizer&mdash;the orphan&mdash;is to become valid
without having to be connected to its Source. It&rsquo;s like, its goal
is to be a lit light bulb that isn&rsquo;t plugged in. Therefore, its
goal is insane. Its goal is to accomplish what can&rsquo;t be
accomplished. Its goal is to engage you in something that is a complete
waste of your time, energy and attention. And it causes you sin,
sickness and death&mdash;fear.

So, when the Holy Spirit answers at once, when His goal replaces yours
it&rsquo;s &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; accomplished very rapidly, but it makes the relationship seem
disturbed, disjunctive and even quite distressing. [And] The reason is
quite clear. For the relationship as it IS &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you know, the orphan mindset &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is out of line with its own goal,
</div>

&hellip; which is to accomplish the impossible &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and [it&rsquo;s] clearly unsuited to the purpose which has been
accepted for it.
</div>

It&rsquo;s unsuited to it because it&rsquo;s an impossible task and
it&rsquo;s a task that&rsquo;s something that doesn&rsquo;t even exist
actually &hellip; must accomplish. The thing that doesn&rsquo;t actually
exist is you as an independent agent, you as a physical entity having
nothing to do with the divine Mind, intelligence, life, truth, love.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In its unholy condition, YOUR goal was all that seemed to give it
meaning.
</div>

You see? You had looked at the ornate frame and you had believed what it
implied, that you could accomplish and become and the pleasure and the
satisfaction and the pride and the self-respect that you would gain from
accomplishing this thing that can&rsquo;t be accomplished. It seemed to
give your life meaning even though it was something you could never
succeed at.

Now, once the Holy Spirit answers quickly, it makes no sense. Now it
makes no sense.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Now it seems to make no sense.
</div>

You see? As clarity comes, it undermines your mental habits, your
mindsets. It undermines those things that gave you a sense of security,
especially in the relationship with the one that you care enough to do
the two-step for.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Many relationships have been broken off at this point, and the pursuit
of the old goal re-established in another relationship. For once the
unholy relationship has ACCEPTED the goal of holiness, it can never
again be what it [is] was.
</div>

Again, remember there&rsquo;s only one of you.  You&rsquo;re either
clear or your unclear. You&rsquo;re either sane or your insane. So
that&rsquo;s why it says:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For once the unholy relationship &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; once you and your unclarity &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
has ACCEPTED the goal of holiness, it can never again be what it [is]
was.
</div>

Now, because your holiness is going to take hold in your present mindset
of unholiness it is going to call for sometimes wrenching adjustment
because of the love you have for the old mindset.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The temptation of the ego becomes extremely intense with this shift in
goals.
</div>

Now, it&rsquo;s really good to be clear about this, because then you, as
I said, will not cringe or back off from it. You will not think
something has gone wrong.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The temptation of the ego &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; at this point &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; becomes extremely intense with this shift in goals. For the
relationship has not, as yet, been changed sufficiently to make its
former goal completely without attraction&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in other words, completely unattractive &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and its structure&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the structure of the former goal &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is "threatened" by the recognition of its inappropriateness for
meeting its new purpose.
</div>

Did you get that? As this new purpose registers with you, it becomes
clear that your old purposes will not help you accomplish this new goal.
And you know what? That&rsquo;s liable to make you feel totally
incompetent, totally incapable, totally worthless as though everything
that ever gave you a sense of worth is wiped out from you and you have
nothing to draw upon in order to feel worthwhile. This is the experience
which results from a great love for that which is nonsense. And when
clarity &hellip; when the light shines on it, bringing you a new goal
that you&rsquo;re unfamiliar with yet, it&rsquo;s very confusing. It is
likely to be very confusing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The conflict between the goal and the structure of the relationship is
so apparent that they CANNOT co-exist.
</div>

When clarity comes to you, it comes to you clearly enough for you not to
be confused and you&rsquo;re able to see just exactly how incompatible
the two mindsets are. But then, because of your devotion to the
life-long work you expended to try to accomplish the impossible, you
become confused because you want to go back. It&rsquo;s like quitting
cigarettes and wanting to go back and have one more puff.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The conflict between the goal and the structure of the relationship is
so apparent that they CANNOT co-exist. Yet now, the goal will NOT be
changed. Set firmly &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the new goal &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Set firmly in the unholy relationship, there is no course except to
CHANGE the relationship to fit the goal.
</div>

To change the unholy relationship mindset to fit the goals of the holy
relationship, that&rsquo;s the only answer.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Until this happy solution is seen and accepted as the ONLY way out of
the conflict, the relationship seems to be severely strained.
</div>

Now, this needs to be understood.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It would not be kinder to shift the goal more slowly, for the contrast
would be obscured&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; it would be like reducing the contrast and making discernment
more difficult &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; for the contrast would be obscured, and the ego given time to
re-interpret each slow step according to its liking. Only a radical
shift in purpose could induce a complete change of mind about what the
whole relationship is FOR. As this change develops &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and I&rsquo;m going to add: Even though it begins strenuously
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As this change develops and is finally accomplished, it grows
increasingly beneficent and joyous. But at the beginning, the situation
is experienced as very precarious. A relationship, undertaken by two
individuals for their unholy purposes, suddenly has HOLINESS for its
goal. As these two contemplate their relationship from the point of view
of this new purpose, they are inevitably appalled.
</div>

I promise you this is true. If you know it, you won&rsquo;t be surprised
and you will dare to persist, even when the suggestion is to abandon the
relationship and establish the old pattern with somebody else.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Their perception &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; those in the relationship &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Their perception of the relationship may even become quite disorganized.
And yet, the former organization of their perception no longer serves
the purpose they have agreed to meet.
</div>

It no longer serves the purpose of the new goal of holiness.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is the time for FAITH. You LET this goal be set for you. That was
an act of faith. Do not abandon faith, now that the rewards of faith are
being introduced.
</div>

Even though the rewards are being experienced strenuously because the
change is so significant and the change undermines things that you felt
were significant and necessary for your self-respect and on and on,
it&rsquo;s the time for FAITH.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you believed the Holy Spirit was there to ACCEPT the relationship,
why would you now not still believe that He is there to purify what He
has taken under His guidance? Have faith in each other in what [but]
SEEMS to be a trying time.
</div>

Mind you again, this holy relationship stuff isn&rsquo;t just about
significant others. It&rsquo;s not &hellip; special ones. You need to be
asking, &ldquo;Father, what is the truth here? Holy Spirit, what is the
truth here about this, that and the other thing?&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Have faith in each other &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you see? That&rsquo;s why I&rsquo;m saying that, because you
can have faith in your neighbor, faith in your grocery store clerk and
so on.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Have faith in each other in what [but] SEEMS to be a trying time. The
goal is set. And your relationship has sanity as its purpose. For now
you find yourselves in an insane relationship, RECOGNIZED as such in the
light of its goal.
</div>

Clarity uncovers the insanity of your old paradigm, which you believe in
and have valued. It is the way sanity returns.

And I&rsquo;m going to leave this at this point tonight. You might say,
&ldquo;Gee whiz!&rdquo; you know, I&rsquo;m sure many of you have said,
&ldquo;Wow, I just turned everything over to the Holy Spirit, or
I&rsquo;ve been really trying to engage in what the Course is teaching
and yet everything is turned upside-down. Something must be
wrong.&rdquo; Tain&rsquo;t so.

I encourage you during this coming week to read this section at least
this far so that you might arrive at a place where the strenuousness of
things isn&rsquo;t alarming you as much, isn&rsquo;t distracting you
significantly from still engaging in the two-step and the invitation of
the holy instant. Because that&rsquo;s still where the answer is and
that is still where the further clarification that will help you to move
out of your old habits will come from.

I love you. I love you all. And I look forward to being with you next
week.

[^1]: T17.5 The Healed Relationship

