---
title: Jul 30, 2011
ref: "T17.5 The Healed Relationship"
alink: "/acim/text/17/chap1705/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

Well, we&rsquo;ve been talking about some rather serious things. Serious
because well, it brings you to a point of having to do something you may
not have thought you were going to have to do. And that is, as we have
talked about, change &hellip; grow &hellip; become different willingly,
not willfully, but willingly with approval from your heart.

To enter into the holy instant, to experience the influx of the
awareness of truth from the Father or the Holy Spirit that happens in
the holy instant&mdash;because that is the function of the holy
instant&mdash;brings you spontaneously to a point that feels unfamiliar
to you. It&rsquo;s new. It calls for you to notice in your Brother or
your Sister&mdash;your fellowman&mdash;value that you hadn&rsquo;t been
seeing and which you actually have no justification for, even though
you&rsquo;re experiencing it.

You find yourself filled with inspiration to see things new.
You&rsquo;re inspired to let your mind be made new. And there you are,
having this new perspective that&rsquo;s very clear to you even though
it had been absolutely obscure to you before.

Now, when you and your partner or a friend or someone you know
who&rsquo;s willing to indulge in the holy instant for the express
purpose of being infilled with the Father&rsquo;s Perspective so that
you might see each other with eyes&mdash;I&rsquo;m going to say, biased
by God&mdash;biased by the Father&rsquo;s Perspective rather than your
own personal perspective, you embark upon the holy relationship &hellip;
you embark upon a holy relationship. And this is the first step Home.
This is the first step back into your sanity.

But here&rsquo;s where the problem arises: When you do this, you find no
justification for employing the old habits of relating to each other.
But the habits don&rsquo;t disappear. All it takes is one unexpected
event or remark or movement or look &hellip; and boom! . . you&rsquo;re
right back into traditional, habitual, manipulative means of controlling
each other so that you can feel your balance.

And here&rsquo;s the other part of the difficulty: You feel that these
responses&mdash;these conditioned responses&mdash;are not only
justified, they are valid. And they are favorites. They are things you
have attachments to. They are behaviors that tell you that you are sane,
that you are grounded, that you are respectable, that you are worthwhile
&hellip; real.

And so these are things you don&rsquo;t want to let go of. To let go of
these things will mean that you will have to become&mdash;at least you
believe you will have to become&mdash;ungrounded, unstable. And so
it&rsquo;s very hard to let go of these habits.  It&rsquo;s very hard to
let go of the way the two of you have behaved before.

And so it takes real discipline not to lose the ground gained by virtue
of practicing the two-step, engaging in the holy instant, having the
influx of inspiration that allows you to experience your relationship in
a new way, that we&rsquo;re identifying as a holy relationship. You
don&rsquo;t want to lose the ground you&rsquo;ve gained there because,
as I&rsquo;ve said, that&rsquo;s the first step back
Home&mdash;that&rsquo;s the beginning of coming Home. And you do not
want to have that movement&mdash;that goal&mdash;thwarted.  And you
especially don&rsquo;t want to have it thwarted by something as
correctable as old habits.

But it does require persistence. That&rsquo;s what makes it difficult.
That&rsquo;s what makes all of this serious because you have to engage
in it seriously with determination.

It doesn&rsquo;t mean you have to lose your joy. But you might have
thought that engaging in the two-step and the holy instant, and the
beginning of an experience of a holy relationship, that all of your
blocks to the experience of love and the expression of love would just
melt and that there would be a natural, spontaneous harmony to the
Movement.

And so, when you find yourself up against the persistence of your old
habits, you discover that there&rsquo;s some work, there&rsquo;s some
effort that you&rsquo;re going to have to put forth. You are going to
have to once again engage in learning, learning something unfamiliar
&hellip; learning it so completely by persistence that it becomes
familiar. And you might say, becomes the new habit. I say that
cautiously because habits, as you employ them and create them, are the
effect of specific conscious or specific consciously directed ideas, the
practice of which have a goal to be accomplished. And the goal is
something you made up when you weren&rsquo;t joined with your Father.

The new habit that we&rsquo;re talking about is one of persistently
bringing yourself back to the point where you are yielding to the Father
&hellip; continually bringing yourself back to the place where you say,
&ldquo;Father what is the truth here?&rdquo; and then listening without
interposing any of your own fine ideas. You see?

So the habit is the practice of no-habit. It&rsquo;s a practice that you
will eventually shift into and it will just be called, &ldquo;being
Awake.&rdquo;

Now, going into the book and reading &hellip; oh, the last couple of
sentences that we finished up with last week:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The goal IS set.
</div>

In other words, the holy relationship is what you&rsquo;ve chosen for.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And your relationship has sanity as its purpose. For now you find
yourselves in an insane relationship, RECOGNIZED as such in the light of
its goal.
</div>

In other words, you&rsquo;re in this rather strange position of
recognizing that you&rsquo;re not in your right Mind and recognizing it
while you&rsquo;re not in it. It&rsquo;s like the clarity of knowing
that you are engaging in nonsense while you&rsquo;re still engaging in
it. It&rsquo;s like becoming aware while you&rsquo;re having a dream,
that you&rsquo;re having a dream.

That is the beginning of Waking up.

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; now you find yourselves in an insane relationship, RECOGNIZED
as such in the light of its goal.
</div>

And you feel the weirdness of it and &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Now the ego &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the orphan mindset, the mindset of the one who thinks
he&rsquo;s an independent agent &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Now the ego counsels thus; substitute for this ANOTHER relationship to
which your former goal was quite appropriate.
</div>

In other words, the going gets a little bit tough. It&rsquo;s requiring
a little bit of discipline. And the ego says&mdash;the old way of
thinking says&mdash;&ldquo;Hey &hellip; hey, it doesn&rsquo;t have to be
this hard. You&rsquo;ve been doing well enough your whole life.  You
know, things haven&rsquo;t gone to pot. Things aren&rsquo;t going to pot
right now. You don&rsquo;t have to do this. You know, maybe your partner
wants to have this &lsquo;holy relationship shit&rsquo; &hellip; but you
don&rsquo;t have to. You don&rsquo;t have to work this hard because
there&rsquo;s somebody that will be happy with you just as you are. Let
this one go find someone else to have a holy relationship with.&rdquo;

This idea comes to you because you get frustrated at the lack of
fulfillment that you were getting from your old ego relationship because
it&rsquo;s not working really well since you&rsquo;ve made this new
commitment. And yet after having made this new commitment, you&rsquo;re
not really comfortable yet, there. So, it&rsquo;s like six, to one-half
dozen of the other. You see?

Yeah, you don&rsquo;t have to put up with this shit. You don&rsquo;t
have to be frustrated all the time. You don&rsquo;t have to put up with
her or him reminding you of what&rsquo;s revealed in the holy instant
about the relationship, when you would rather be employing some of your
old habits of manipulation so that you might get a little hit of
self-respect based upon being unjoined. You see?

It is a very frustrating experience. It feels ungrounded. It feels
unsatisfying and so, you know, the old habit kicks in &hellip;
&ldquo;you don&rsquo;t have to do this, go find someone who will like
you just as you are.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You can escape from your distress only by getting rid of each other.
</div>

What&rsquo;s the distress? The distress is the lack of recognized
fulfillment arising out of the new goal and the practice of staying in
the holy instant so that the growth might occur &hellip; so that the
change might happen and so that the unfamiliar can become familiar.

Now, the ego&rsquo;s sneaky.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You need not part entirely if you choose not to do so. But you must
exclude major areas of fantasy from each other, to save your sanity.
</div>

Now what is the ego saying? What are the major areas of fantasy that you
must exclude from each other? Why it&rsquo;s the awareness of your
holiness, your awareness of your partner&rsquo;s holiness. You must
abandon the fantasies that the Holy Spirit has provided you&mdash;those
crazy nonsensical ideas of unity and harmony and love and peace and
wholeness, and that you&rsquo;re actually the Sons and Daughters of God
and not independent agents at all. These are the fantasies that the ego
says you can withhold from each other and still stay together and not
have to lose your familiar and satisfying relationship. You see? And you
must do this to save your sanity, which means to remain stuck in your
ignorance that you&rsquo;re comfortable with. And because you&rsquo;re
comfortable with it, it must mean that you are, in most respects, sane
&hellip; right? Obviously, if you&rsquo;re insane you&rsquo;ll be
uncomfortable. If you&rsquo;re sane, you&rsquo;ll be comfortable. So:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you must exclude major areas of fantasy from each other, to
save your sanity.
</div>

Now, it says:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Hear not this now!
</div>

In other words, be alert. And when these thoughts present themselves to
you, don&rsquo;t accept them. Recognize them as distractions from your
goal to Wake up, from your goal of recognizing the holiness of yourself
and your Brother or Sister and operating on that basis.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Have faith in Him &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Who answered you. He heard. Has He not been very explicit in His answer?
You are not now wholly insane. Can you DENY that He has given you a most
explicit statement?
</div>

You see when you do this, when you engage in the holy instant and when
the Father or the Holy Spirit responds to you with the truth, the
response is very clear. It could be called an explicit statement. It
could be called an explicit understanding that is so clear that the
words that identify it are inescapable. And so the experience
constitutes a statement, a statement of such meaning that your being
able to see your Brother and everything in a new light, somehow
spontaneously and not as a result of learning…learning…learning, like
memorization: two-times-two is four, two-times-three is six,
two-times-four is eight and on and on over and over so that you get it
into the system.

But no, you&rsquo;re having this experience without going through a
rehearsal, without going through steps. It&rsquo;s because you
didn&rsquo;t acquire this clarity through a conscious process of
memorization or of storing data so that you could say that you have
learned, that you could seem to lose it easily or you can be easily
distracted from it by your old habits.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Now He asks for faith a little longer, even in bewilderment.
</div>

Even though you&rsquo;re unsure, even though things feel unstable to you
because it&rsquo;s not being easy to employ your old habits of control,
have faith. You don&rsquo;t have to be clear in order to have faith. In
fact when things are clear, you don&rsquo;t think you need faith.
It&rsquo;s when you are bewildered that you need faith and because you
have embarked on a very specific process of Awakening&mdash;of coming
back into your right Mind&mdash;you must be diligent. It&rsquo;s that
simple. Even if it&rsquo;s inconvenient to you, you must persist.

This is why what we&rsquo;re talking about seems to be serious. Because
there&rsquo;s not a lot of joy to it, there&rsquo;s not a lot of
buoyancy to it, there&rsquo;s not a wave that picks you up and deposits
you in the Promised Land. There&rsquo;s a movement of inspiration that
infills you and uncovers old bad habits as bad habits, so that you can
see they&rsquo;re not working for you really, so that you can more
easily let go of them &hellip; and so that you actually do go ahead and
let go of them. In other words, you learn &hellip; you change &hellip;
you grow.

Again, this Course In Miracles is not a head-trip, it&rsquo;s not a
mental learning process. It&rsquo;s a movement of growth in which you
will experience yourself being changed by virtue of the inspiration that
is provided to you and by virtue of your letting it in and behaving in
harmony with it, instead of persisting in rehearsing and rehearsing and
rehearsing all of your old mindsets, theories and so on.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Now He asks for faith a little longer, even in bewilderment. For this
will go&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the bewilderment will go &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and you will see the justification for your faith emerge, to
bring you shining conviction. Abandon Him &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit, the One you&rsquo;ve turned to, and the One
Who has responded and the One Who stands with you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; Abandon Him not now, nor each other.
</div>

Even though there are moments you could just easily walk away from him
or easily walk away from her because nothing&rsquo;s going right between
you anymore. The old things you used to do that seems to make things
right aren&rsquo;t making things right anymore and you can&rsquo;t stick
with the new things long enough for them to set into place and prove to
you, convince you that indeed you are grounded and you are safe. You
see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This relationship HAS BEEN reborn as holy.
</div>

Again, it&rsquo;s not going to feel like it. It will, momentarily here
and there, but mostly it&rsquo;s going to feel like a demand for hard
work, a demand for discipline that you hadn&rsquo;t expected. And that
somehow, your ego says, &ldquo;I ought to tell you that what
you&rsquo;re embarking on here is itself insane and that you are leaving
sanity behind by abandoning your old habits.&rdquo;

Know this so that you can bring the determination and the commitment to
this unsteady place and hold to it as you move through it and things
stabilize.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Accept with gladness what you do not understand, and let it be explained
to you as you perceive its purpose work in it to MAKE it holy.
</div>

In other words, it&rsquo;s going to be like planting a seed. And you
keep looking, you water and you look &hellip; and you water and you look
&hellip; and nothing. And you water and you look &hellip; and you water
and you look &hellip; and a week goes by. And you water and you look
&hellip; and nothing happens. Well, what do you do? You say, &ldquo;Hey
I could be doing the things I used to be doing when I wasn&rsquo;t
watering and watching. I was pretty happy doing the other things. This
is for the birds!&rdquo;

No. If you&rsquo;ve planted seeds before, you don&rsquo;t have this
indecision and deterrent presenting itself to you. You know that you
water and you look &hellip; and you water and you look.  You even
realize that you can water and not look &hellip; and water and not look
&hellip; and water and not look &hellip; and the crop will come up. You
see? So:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You will find many opportunities to blame each other for the "failure"
of your relationship, for it will seem, at times, to have NO purpose.
</div>

Now, that isn&rsquo;t fleshed out very much &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; it will seem, at times, to have NO purpose.
</div>

Well, okay. But here is some practical aspects of it: The relationship
will seem to have no purpose because none of the things you used to do
that worked, will work. It&rsquo;s that simple. It will seem to have no
purpose because nothing can be accomplished. You may try to slip back
into your old habits and manipulations but your partner in this is
liable to see you doing it and call you on it, and not be manipulated by
it like he or she used to. So you&rsquo;re stuck. You&rsquo;re stuck
with the &ldquo;failure&rdquo; of the old ways of being together. Whew!

And you know what? It makes you mad. It frustrates you. And of course,
when you&rsquo;re mad and frustrated you&rsquo;re not in the holy
instant, are you? You&rsquo;re not anywhere near that place where, in
the quietness and the desire to know, &ldquo;What&rsquo;s the more of
what God is being here than what I&rsquo;m seeing?&rdquo; Well,
you&rsquo;re trapped. You&rsquo;re just simply trapped.

If you can&rsquo;t get into that place where the holy instant can be
experienced, because it&rsquo;s so damn justifiable to you to be upset
because nothing is working, then you have been successfully distracted
from the holy purpose that the two of you have put into place regarding
your relationship. And there&rsquo;s no way for you to be clear.
There&rsquo;s no way for there to be a refreshment of the influx of
inspiration.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
A sense of aimlessness will come to haunt you, and to remind you of all
the ways you once sought for satisfaction, and thought you found it.
</div>

A lot of reverie will go on. Yeah, that used to work and this used to
work. She or he fell for it every time. It always worked. It becomes a
despairing situation.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
A sense of aimlessness will come to haunt you, and to remind you of all
the ways you once sought for satisfaction, and thought you found it.
Forget not now the misery you REALLY found, and do not now breathe life
into your failing egos. For your relationship has NOT been disrupted. It
has been SAVED.
</div>

You see? When it says:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Forget not now the misery you REALLY found&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; it&rsquo;s like saying: Don&rsquo;t forget that there was a
moment where you realized that you were insane, that everything you
thought had been normal all your life was not normal according to
God&rsquo;s terms. And it didn&rsquo;t really bring you satisfaction or
wholeness because sin, disease and death are still operating &hellip;
are still governing. You knuckle down to them. It doesn&rsquo;t seem
that they knuckle down to you. And yet that&rsquo;s the correction
that&rsquo;s called for. So:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Forget not now the misery you REALLY [thought you] found, and do not now
breathe life into your failing egos.
</div>

You know &hellip; [chuckles]. Oh, there&rsquo;s such a temptation to
give artificial respiration and do everything you can to arouse the old
way things worked. And then because you can&rsquo;t do it, you have to
deal with the ongoing frustration.

Key point: As a result of practicing the holy instant and moving into
the holy relationship &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; [For] your relationship has NOT been disrupted. It has been
SAVED.
</div>

Now, here&rsquo;s why everything seems upside-down, unstable, messed-up.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You are very new in the ways of salvation, and think you have lost your
way. YOUR way &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the one you have been employing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; IS lost, but think not this is LOSS. In your newness, remember
that you have started again&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; Key point:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; TOGETHER.
</div>

You&rsquo;re simply starting together in a new way that neither one of
you is totally familiar with, perhaps not even very familiar with. If
you stay in the holy instant, if you do not abandon it, if you begin to
re-employ your best judgments and your thinking, you will become
confused again. But all you have to do is: [snaps fingers] Stop &hellip;
do the two-step, become still, ask &ldquo;What is the truth here?&rdquo;
You see? And then listen. Be willing to hear, so that the holy instant
is refreshed, in the sense of re-opened in the moment you&rsquo;re in.
It&rsquo;s not a rehash of the previous holy instant. It&rsquo;s a
matter of being in the innocent state of mind which is unobstructedly
available to the inspiration that it is the Father&rsquo;s good pleasure
to give to you, to reveal to you the truth, so that you might respond to
it&mdash;your partner, your world&mdash;as the holy Son or Daughter of
God and the Kingdom of Heaven that It is.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In your newness&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; where you&rsquo;re faltering some &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; remember that you have started again, TOGETHER. And take each
other&rsquo;s hand, to walk together along a road far more familiar than
you now believe.
</div>

See? You need to know these things so that it gives you the courage to
persist.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; walk together along a road far more familiar than you now
believe. Is it not certain that you will remember a goal unchanged
throughout eternity?
</div>

I mentioned before that you were Awake before you went to sleep. So in
your Waking up you are returning to a state that you abandoned at an
earlier time, one that you are already entirely familiar with but which
you are ignorant of because you have so conscientiously blocked it by
your insistence upon trying to become an independent agent, whole and
real in your own right, without your Source, without your Father.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Is it not certain that you will remember a goal unchanged throughout
eternity? For you have chosen but the goal of God, from which your true
intent was NEVER absent.
</div>

The shifting from the experience you&rsquo;re having right now, to the
experience just described, is worth every ounce of effort, persistence,
determination and labor that it takes to arrive at the end of the road,
at the end of the Movement, at the end of the shift.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Throughout the Sonship is the song of freedom heard, in joyous echo of
your choice.
</div>

So, another helpful hint: You&rsquo;re not doing this all by yourself.
It might seem that when you are faced with your partner and your partner
is faced with you, that it&rsquo;s just two little forlorn egos who are
somehow insane and didn&rsquo;t know they were, but now know they are
and are in the unenviable position of having to move through their
confidence that they are insane when they&rsquo;re not. And
they&rsquo;re having to stick to it as they move past whatever their
current sense of insanity is so that they might find, like a gentle fog
blowing in, a vague but increasing experience of sanity, of well-being,
of holiness that increases, not because of anything you&rsquo;ve
consciously chosen to do, other than to stay where it can happen. You
see?

The only thing you can do through an act of will is to choose to stay
where the shift is happening. You just can&rsquo;t be responsible for it
happening. And you can&rsquo;t be responsible for the content of what is
emerging. But you can and you must be responsible for remaining in the
place where it can happen.

Where is that place? That place is in the holy instant. That place is in
the silence in the middle of you, where all there is present is your
attention&mdash;your eager attention&mdash;your desire to know what you
don&rsquo;t know yet. And to hell with everything you do know!

You know, even if some of what you know is true and real, you can dare
in the holy instant to throw it all out, because that of it which is
Real will be reintroduced by the Holy Spirit as you&rsquo;re listening.
You simply need to be in that place where you&rsquo;re totally
incompetent, you&rsquo;re totally unable to appropriately act. And so
you&rsquo;re willing to listen to be infilled with the motive for acts
that brings forth acts that identify Reality, that identify your
wholeness, that identify your Brothers&rsquo; and Sisters&rsquo;
wholeness. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have joined with many in the holy instant, and they have joined with
you.
</div>

I know the holy instant seems like an emptiness to you. It seems like
the quietness, the void. But it&rsquo;s full. It&rsquo;s full of the
Presence of God. It&rsquo;s full of the Presence of Reality and the
conscious experience of It that it&rsquo;s yours to be experiencing. So
when you bring yourself to the holy instant, you&rsquo;re bringing
yourself to a place that is full, full of your Reality, full of your
comprehension of your Reality, full of all the Brotherhood, full of all
of Creation. This is why coming to It is you returning to your right
Mind. That&rsquo;s what it means.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have joined with many in the holy instant, and they have joined with
you. Think not your choice will leave you comfortless, for God Himself
has blessed your holy relationship.
</div>

But see here&rsquo;s the rub: You&rsquo;re going to feel like doing this
constitutes leaving your comfort. So when it says here:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Think not your choice will leave you comfortless&hellip;
</div>

You&rsquo;re going to say, &ldquo;Wait a minute, my experience is the
opposite of this. I&rsquo;m not feeling comfortable.&rdquo; Well, in the
end your choice will not leave you comfortless, because it will bring
you to the immortal and eternal comfort of your Being, in which you are
perfectly safe, perfectly at peace because there&rsquo;s no conflict in
God, there&rsquo;s not conflict in Reality, there&rsquo;s no conflict in
the Kingdom of Heaven.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Think not your choice will leave you comfortless, for God Himself has
blessed your holy relationship.
</div>

How has God blessed your holy relationship? By revealing to you its
holiness in a way that you can&rsquo;t deny, even though you can&rsquo;t
explain how it is you&rsquo;re seeing its holiness. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Join in His blessing, and withhold not yours upon it. For all it needs
now is your blessing, that you may see that in it rests salvation.
</div>

Your Brother is your salvation. Your joining with your Brother in the
holy relationship is your only means of escape from the insanity
you&rsquo;re suffering from &hellip; from the sin, disease and death
that you&rsquo;re suffering from and governed by.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[For] all it needs now is your blessing, that you may see that in it
rests salvation. Condemn salvation not&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; even though its means is unfamiliar with you and makes you feel
awkward.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Condemn salvation not, for it HAS come to you. And welcome it
together&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you and your partner &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; for it has come to JOIN you together in a relationship in which
all the Sonship is together blessed.
</div>

I&rsquo;m hoping that over the past weeks it has become easier for
everyone to listen to the hard truth, to be confronted with the hard
stuff. I hope that it&rsquo;s not frightening, like it might have been
in the beginning, where you would have chosen to go somewhere else and
do something else a little more pleasant.  Because to understand what it
is that has entrapped you and the fact that abandoning your devotion to
it is the means of Waking up, is the means of experiencing salvation.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You undertook, together, to invite the Holy Spirit into your
relationship. He could not have entered otherwise. Although you may have
made many mistakes since then, you have also made enormous efforts to
help Him do His work.
</div>

To help who? The Holy Spirit. To help who? That which is nothing more
than your right Mind. Helping Him to do His work. What is His work? His
work is to return you to your whole Mind.

So every bit of effort you are putting into, every ounce of energy and
commitment and determination that you&rsquo;re bringing into play is
energy you&rsquo;re applying to bringing your own Mind back together,
undoing the fragmentation that seemed to occur when you said, &ldquo;Oh,
I&rsquo;m only going to pay attention to this part of the infinitude of
my Mind. And this part and all of the things I think inside this part,
that&rsquo;s all that&rsquo;s Real and that&rsquo;s all I&rsquo;m going
to give my attention to.&rdquo;

But as you are engaging in the hard work that it seems to be that
we&rsquo;re talking about, you are helping the Holy Spirit&mdash;your
right Mind&mdash;fulfill Its purpose. You&rsquo;re helping It do
It&rsquo;s work. It can&rsquo;t do Its work if you don&rsquo;t willingly
participate. And willingly participating means diligently staying on
task. That&rsquo;s what.

Again, and not a lot of fun, but you know what? You&rsquo;re listening
to the Holy Spirit right now. And the Holy Spirit is providing inspiring
news, inspiring information, the inspiration of truth that will make it
easier for you to help the Holy Spirit do His work, help your right Mind
do Its work in bringing you back into your sanity.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you have also made enormous efforts to help Him do His work.
And He has not been lacking in appreciation for all you have done for
Him. Nor does He see the mistakes at all. Have you been similarly
grateful to each other? Have you consistently appreciated the good
efforts, and overlooked mistakes? Or has your appreciation flickered and
grown dim in what seemed to be the light of the mistakes? You are now
entering upon a campaign to blame each other for the discomfort of the
situation in which you find yourselves. And by this lack of thanks and
gratitude, you make yourselves unable to EXPRESS the holy instant, and
thus you lose sight of it.
</div>

Now this is where we will stop tonight, because you don&rsquo;t want to
express a lack of faith, a lack of thanks and gratitude. You don&rsquo;t
want to make yourselves unable to express the holy instant and thus lose
sight of it. But you&rsquo;ve got to find a way not to lose it.

And that&rsquo;s where the attentiveness comes in, that&rsquo;s where
the commitment comes in, that&rsquo;s where the resolve gets set in
place so that you persist when the temptation is to go back to the old
habits and attempt to manipulate each other and then get mad because the
other isn&rsquo;t manipulable anymore. And thus lose the holy instant,
thus lose your peace and thus lose the willingness to get back into your
peace because your old habit is such that being upset is satisfying, it
means something to you. And you&rsquo;d rather be upset, because you
can&rsquo;t have what you want. You can&rsquo;t have control like you
used to have. And then your partner has to wait while you wait to settle
down and decide, &ldquo;Oh, I think I&rsquo;ll try the holy instant
again. I think I&rsquo;ll try the two-step again, if my partner will
just keep his or her mouth shut long enough not to irritate me again so
that I can do it.&rdquo; You see?

You see, these are the ways you manipulate yourselves into ignorance and
keep each other at bay and you lose the point, you lose the blessing.

I love you all. And what you&rsquo;re learning here is significant. Be
willing to do the work. And I look forward to being with your next time.

[^1]: T17.5 The Healed Relationship

