---
title: Aug 6, 2011
ref: "T17.5 The Healed Relationship"
alink: "/acim/text/17/chap1705/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

How was your week? How well did you stay in touch with the practice of
the holy instant?

And you know, more important than anything right now, the question is,
how many of you, when you have had a conscious intent to do the
two-step, to practice the holy instant for the purpose of experiencing
the holy relationship, have found that some of your worst behaviors have
come out &hellip; some of your bitchiest attitudes have fought for a
place on the floor to speak from and take charge and be?

How many of you have had the surprising experience of not having a
simple ongoing influx of inspiration?

You&rsquo;re the ones I&rsquo;m talking to tonight. Because you&rsquo;re
the ones who need encouragement&mdash;support. You&rsquo;re the ones who
need to know that fate has not stepped up and dished you out a plate of
unpleasant life. You need to know that you aren&rsquo;t doing anything
wrong. You need to know that this isn&rsquo;t surprising.

A long time ago I talked about the fact that when you approach the gates
to the Kingdom of Heaven, what does the ego do? What does your ego do?

Why, it projects gargoyles all around the Gate to scare you off.

Now mind you, they&rsquo;re not real. They&rsquo;re just projections,
like in the theatre. But they&rsquo;re there to accomplish a purpose.
They&rsquo;re there to distract you from simply walking on through the
Gates &hellip; something you can do without actual interference from the
gargoyles. They just behave threateningly. You see? Like in a fun-ride
at an amusement park.

The only problem is that in this instance, you&rsquo;re not so sure
they&rsquo;re not real. And so you actually do hesitate and you actually
do act out what they&rsquo;re there to frighten you into doing. And at
the bottom line, what they&rsquo;re there to frighten you into doing is
to behave in a way opposite to the holy relationship, opposite to the
influx of inspiration that has come in the holy instant. You see?

The gargoyles are indirect. They make you think that someone else is
behaving in a way that is disrespectful, unkind, malicious, whatever
will work to get you to leave the holy instant and attack them &hellip;
stand up for yourself &hellip; demand respect! It suggests that they
call for correction and that you&rsquo;re the obvious one to provide the
correction.  And you feel it and you don&rsquo;t mind speaking up.

And so the holy instant seems to be undone. The holy relationship that
you had a glimpse of seems to have disappeared. And you know what?
Again, the evil part of this is that you are fooled into looking for a
place to make the correction, which is not where the correction can be
made. You are fooled into attacking someone &ldquo;out there&rdquo;
rather than noticing that something very fundamental and intimate has
happened.

You have chosen to abandon your peace. You have chosen to abandon the
holy instant. You have found something more important than the holy
instant and therefore, your sanity and your Awakening. You&rsquo;ve
found something more important than that. That is where the correction
can be made.

And so you must be very alert.

You know, the ego-conditioning&mdash;the orphan mindset&mdash;has only
one thing to do. And that is to successfully distract you from your
Father&mdash;from That which illuminates in you your divinity&mdash;the
truth about you, your holiness, your, as I&rsquo;ve said before,
royalty. That&rsquo;s its task. That&rsquo;s what it&rsquo;s used for.

Again, at the risk of being monotonous, it does that not as a denial of
God in your mind, but as a justification for making something important
out of yourself. You see? It&rsquo;s important to remember this. Because
it means that any energy you feel, any motivation you feel for making
something out of yourself and becoming something valuable and valid, is
exactly what will keep you insane. It is exactly what will keep you
disconnected from That which illuminates to you within you your
ever-present divinity, which is the one essential thing that needs to be
present in your mind in order for your mind to become clear&mdash;in
order for your mind to know the truth.

So don&rsquo;t be surprised if during this past week, you found yourself
easily distracted and easily motivated into being mean-spirited &hellip;
even perhaps, malicious, caustic, arrogant, thoughtless. I mean,
behavior that after it happens, you say, &ldquo;What got into me? This
isn&rsquo;t me. This isn&rsquo;t the way I behave. This isn&rsquo;t
normal.&rdquo;

Well, that&rsquo;s true &hellip; it&rsquo;s not. And you&rsquo;re going
to have to use a little bit of reverse psychology and recognize and be
able to acknowledge, &ldquo;Wow, I must be getting near something
important if the ego is going to go to this much trouble to distract me
from it. If it is going to engage me in self-defense that can be
mean-spirited and unkind, I must be doing something important. I must be
doing something right.&rdquo;

And of course you are. You are insisting upon practicing the two-step,
engaging in the holy instant so that you can hear from the Father what
the truth is in this situation or that situation, or this relationship
or that relationship. You&rsquo;re doing something right. You&rsquo;re
doing the one essential thing for Waking up! So don&rsquo;t be
surprised.

But now, you&rsquo;ve got to be careful here too because the ego will
come in and say&mdash;when you&rsquo;ve engaged in this little bit of
reverse psychology&mdash;&ldquo;Oh-h yes, now we&rsquo;re going to
handle this one well because you&rsquo;re doing something really
important. Why you may be the first one to Wake up since Jesus. And in
your Waking up, you will bless the whole world.&rdquo;

Oh-h-h &hellip; Oh-h &hellip; and it gets your pride juices flowing. And
now it begins to feel like it might be a really wonderful thing to do to
engage in the holy instant and the holy relationship. Don&rsquo;t take
the bait! Because if you&rsquo;ll stop long enough to notice
what&rsquo;s happening, you&rsquo;ll realize that while this
&ldquo;conversation&rdquo; is going on between you and the ego and
you&rsquo;re learning about how to handle this with dignity &hellip;
why&mdash;are you talking to the Holy Spirit? Are you engaged in the
holy instant, where in the quietness you&rsquo;re able to hear the
Father&rsquo;s Voice? Are you being infilled by the Father or by the
Holy Spirit?

No you&rsquo;re not. And so you have to be alert.

How are you going to remember to come back to the holy instant when
you&rsquo;ve abandoned it? And especially, how are you going to come
back when you&rsquo;ve abandoned it and become emotionally involved in
the abandonment, where you are getting satisfaction out of exercising
your will, protecting your ass from your partner, who from time to time,
the ego will have you seeing as someone who is against you, even though
your partner is voting for the holy instant and the holy relationship
&hellip; how are you going to come back?

I would suggest that if it&rsquo;s difficult, if it is being difficult
for you, set yourself a regimen of exposing yourself to the truth that
we&rsquo;re talking about on a regular basis. You can read the
transcript. You can download the audio. Put it on your iPod and listen
to it &hellip; once a day, twice a day. Oh, I know &hellip; it lasts
about an hour &hellip; that&rsquo;s along time.  Yeah, right, well,
obviously you&rsquo;re not important enough for that &hellip; an hour
here or an hour there, you&rsquo;re not important enough for that. You
have important things to do, don&rsquo;t you&mdash;things that will
cause your world to collapse around you if you don&rsquo;t attend to
them. And yet if you don&rsquo;t attend to your Waking up, you&rsquo;re
living in a Kingdom of Heaven that has already collapsed around you, at
least to your perception.

For someone who&rsquo;s insane, it is always difficult to regain
one&rsquo;s sanity. Not because it&rsquo;s impossible or hard, but
because it takes focused attention, which, when you&rsquo;re insane,
it&rsquo;s hard to justify.

You might even say, &ldquo;Well, it&rsquo;s hard for my mind to wrap
itself around these things because I&rsquo;m insane &hellip;&rdquo;
Bullshit! That&rsquo;s a good line but don&rsquo;t believe it and
don&rsquo;t use it.

So provide yourself with what we&rsquo;ll call, a trigger&mdash;a
reminder. And you don&rsquo;t have to listen for a whole hour, but if
you&rsquo;ll listen for five minutes, you will find yourself
significantly reminded of where your attention needs to be and why. And
then you can begin again &hellip; until you lose it.

Right now it doesn&rsquo;t seem really important to give this much
attention to your growth&mdash;your learning. But I&rsquo;m telling you
that it is. And I&rsquo;m telling you that it is, so that you might give
some faith to the process. So that you might feel that there really is
justification. But you&rsquo;re going to have to do the work.

Let&rsquo;s go into the Book.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The experience of an instant&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; holy instant &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; however compelling it may be, is easily forgotten if you allow
time to close over it.
</div>

Well, how can you let time close over the holy instant? Well, you can go
into memory, can&rsquo;t you. Something happens and you can respond from
memory. You have moved into time. You&rsquo;ve moved out of the holy
instant.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The experience of an instant, however compelling it may be, is easily
forgotten if you allow time to close over it. It must be kept shining
and gracious in your awareness of time, but not concealed within it.
</div>

Now, if you engage in the holy instant and stay in the holy instant,
your references have nothing to do with time even though you are
continuing, we&rsquo;ll say, to be in time and events seem to be
unfolding in time. But time and what&rsquo;s going on in it, these
things are not your reference points because you are choosing to stay
connected to the Father or the Holy Spirit in the holy instant without
interruption.  So that is how you keep the holy instant shining and
gracious in your awareness of time but not concealed within it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The instant remains. But where are YOU?
</div>

Are you in it? Or are you in time? Are you in the &ldquo;not-knowing
place&rdquo; being infilled with inspiration or are you in the knowing
place where you know what things are because you&rsquo;ve defined them
and where you&rsquo;re bound by the definitions? Where are you? Have you
abandoned listening and begun thinking? Where are you?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The instant remains. But where are YOU? To give thanks to each other is
to appreciate the holy instant, and thus enable its results to be
accepted and SHARED.
</div>

To give thanks to each other &hellip; that means to be in an attitude of
appreciation.  And when you&rsquo;re in an attitude of appreciation of
love, there&rsquo;s no inconsistent behavior that can arise.
There&rsquo;s no mean-spiritedness present to be shared, to be acted
out.  Because of this, the meaning that is being revealed about your
holiness and the holiness of your partner has an opportunity to be acted
out&mdash;to be expressed by you and by your partner.

Of course, your partner is really irrelevant because where you&rsquo;re
coming from and where your attention is, is what will govern the
movement of healing in the relationship and provide the environment in
which your partner can join also in gratitude and appreciation without
being distracted by your &ldquo;excellent attack&rdquo; because
you&rsquo;re really good at it. You really know how to burst
another&rsquo;s bubble.  You know where that other one&rsquo;s weak
spots are and you know how to get to it almost surgically, perfectly, so
that they don&rsquo;t even recognize that you have got them and
distracted them and given you relief from having to stay in and practice
the holy instant, practice and be in a holy relationship. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To ATTACK each other &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; which you&rsquo;re now beginning to find you do quite easily
and quite spontaneously and with little self-governance going on
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To ATTACK each other is not to lose the instant, but to make it
powerless in its EFFECTS.
</div>

I&rsquo;m going to put it this way: Close your eyes &hellip; now even
with your eyes closed you know that you&rsquo;re
conscious&mdash;you&rsquo;re aware. Awareness is the holy instant. Or
awareness is where the holy instant is experienced. Awareness is the
arena of the holy instant. You see? So the holy instant has always been
present. Always been available but no one has been giving any attention
to it. Because everybody has been too busy working out their own
salvation on their own terms.

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To ATTACK each other is not to lose the instant&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; because it&rsquo;s ever-present. It is the very context or
arena of your awareness, of your conscious awareness, but &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To ATTACK each other is not to lose the instant, but to make it
powerless in its EFFECTS.
</div>

The effects of the holy instant are you behaving consistent with the
awareness of the holiness of what you&rsquo;re experiencing or who
you&rsquo;re experiencing and thereby an awareness of your holiness that
you have been unaware of before, and behavior on your part arising out
of that clarity.

Those are the effects of the holy instant. But you render the holy
instant powerless, you render those effects non-existent when you
abandon the holy instant and choose instead to think and to behave on
the basis of your thinking, your judgments, your concepts. You see?

It really becomes very clearly black or white, this or that, nothing
fuzzy. You know, the promise of the holy instant and of the holy
relationship is: You and your partner regaining your sanity. That is
significant. And that is worth every ounce of energy you bring to your
desire to Wake up. It is worth every ounce of energy it takes to cause
you to not just go through your day out of habit, but to stay so very
alert and attentive that if anything is going on more than what you
expect, if there is more of what God is being there than what
you&rsquo;re seeing &hellip; you want to see it! And you&rsquo;re not
going to settle back until you have the experience.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To ATTACK each other is not to lose the instant, but to make it
powerless in its EFFECTS. You HAVE received the holy instant, but you
have established a condition in which you cannot USE it.
</div>

What&rsquo;s that condition? It&rsquo;s that you&rsquo;ve withdrawn your
attention and given it some place else, with no connection with your
Source involved in it &hellip; that simple.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As a result, you do not realize that it is with you still. And by
cutting yourself off from its &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; its expression, you have denied yourself its benefit.
</div>

It&rsquo;s like if you want to see a movie, you can&rsquo;t stand
outside of the theater. You&rsquo;ve got to stop providing the
circumstances that disallow you from having what you want.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You reinforce this every time you attack each other, for the attack must
blind you to YOURSELF. And it is impossible to deny yourself, and
recognize what has been given and received by you.
</div>

You get that?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; impossible to deny yourself&hellip;
</div>

Well, what is this self you&rsquo;re denying? Well, it&rsquo;s the only
one you are. At the moment you&rsquo;re calling it a human being, a
mortal, subject to sin, disease and death. But this self-same one that
you are&mdash;that you&rsquo;re defining that way&mdash;is the holy Son
of God or the holy Daughter of God. Okay? You are.

You as a mortal, as a puny little orphan &hellip; you have from that
place, practiced the two-step, the holy instant, and you have
experienced the influx of the inspiration of truth &hellip; okay? . .
that has been given and it&rsquo;s been received by you. It has! But now
are you going to keep that in mind or are you going to abandon it for
the pleasure of self-will expressed and manipulation to put yourself in
a position of advantage? It&rsquo;s one or the other, and it&rsquo;s
that simple.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You stand together in the holy presence of truth itself.
</div>

&hellip; when you&rsquo;ve engaged in this practice and you have this
intent.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Here is the goal, together WITH you.
</div>

You and the one you&rsquo;re having a holy relationship or that you wish
to have an unobstructed holy relationship with.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You stand together &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the two of you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; in the holy presence of truth itself. Here is the goal,
together WITH you.
</div>

All the ingredients are present.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Think you not the goal itself will gladly arrange the means for its
accomplishment?
</div>

You see? This isn&rsquo;t just wishful thinking. This isn&rsquo;t just
some grand idea that somebody dreamed up and sat down and wrote A Course
In Miracles. There&rsquo;s a reality beyond the definitions you&rsquo;ve
provided for it and it operates according to laws that are beyond any
rules you have come up with. And although the idea of there being laws
that you&rsquo;re bound by seems to be oppression to you because
independence is so important, the fact is that it&rsquo;s your
salvation.

The laws that govern you express, embody, manifest the absence of sin,
disease and death, fear, jealousy, injury, loss. These laws say you are
the holy Son or Daughter of God and nothing less. And everything that
the Sons or Daughters of God deserve, they have and they can&rsquo;t be
in a state of loss. You see?

These laws are not oppressive. Oh yes, there&rsquo;s one thing besides
sin, disease and death that you can&rsquo;t have, that is self-will
expressed at odds with the Father, expressed at odds with the way things
work. You can&rsquo;t have independence. You can&rsquo;t have authority
all by yourself. These are all one thing said in different ways. So yes,
in that way it&rsquo;s oppressive to the one who feels he has an
inalienable right to do whatever he wants, whatever way he wants to do
it. And if he wants to stumble and fall, he can do it and if he wants to
do it without stumbling and falling he can do it that way, and
it&rsquo;s nobody&rsquo;s business which way.

Well, the Father gives you the right to stumble and fall as much as you
want. The Father gives you the right to behave stupidly if you want. The
Father will let you pretend that you don&rsquo;t have a Father for as
long as you want. But you will not be able to have them in any other
form than fantasy. And you can have them until you decide you
don&rsquo;t want to exist and operate in a realm of fantasy anymore.

And that&rsquo;s where we&rsquo;re coming from. And that&rsquo;s what
we&rsquo;re talking about. And that&rsquo;s what we are illuminating
&hellip; fleshing out &hellip; explaining more fully.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Think you not the goal itself will gladly arrange the means for its
accomplishment?
</div>

What is the goal? The goal is the reunion of you with your right Mind,
to be accomplished by your right Mind&mdash;the majority of your right
Mind that you have abandoned and disowned but can&rsquo;t get rid of.
And so it&rsquo;s still working. The way things are continue to be the
way things are. And everything about the way things are is geared to
actualizing your sanity in you. It&rsquo;s that simple.

Now that goal is set in place by God. It&rsquo;s set in place by
&ldquo;the way things are,&rdquo; whether you choose to believe them or
not.

So you are experiencing illumination if only through my words. And the
illumination is of that which will move you back into your right Mind
because God is All and you are finally at a point to being willing to
undo the divorce&mdash;stop behaving as though you&rsquo;re Fatherless,
Sourceless. This is good.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is just this same discrepancy between the purpose that has been
accepted and the means as they stand now which seems to make you suffer,
but which makes Heaven glad.
</div>

You see, you experience a discrepancy because you&rsquo;re looking from
two different vantage points simultaneously. The sanity in you, the
divinity in you recognizes the existence of a holy instant and a holy
relationship. You are not denying the truth of its existence totally.
And as a result, the idea is registering with you with Meaning. In other
words, it&rsquo;s reaching you deeply. Part of you recognizes that, and
it also recognizes that the means for Awakening completely involve
yielding to God. But in more practical terms than that, yielding to your
capital &ldquo;S&rdquo; Self, yielding to the Holy Spirit&mdash;which is
nothing more than your right Mind.

Now that&rsquo;s the means to the end: Yielding to the Holy Spirit,
yielding to your right Mind. But there&rsquo;s another vantage point:
The orphan vantage point that you&rsquo;re very familiar with and it
looks at this abandonment of authority and control as insane &hellip; it
sees that as insane.

And so you have a conflict. There seem to be two means to having the
experience of your sanity: One is, think on your own and listen to your
ego. The other is, abandon your ego and your self-made authority and
yield to the Father. The latter&mdash;yielding to the Father&mdash;that
means:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; stand now [as that] which seems to make you suffer, but which
makes Heaven glad.
</div>

Now you&rsquo;ve got to understand this else you will give up before the
suffering ends, before the confusion ceases. And I&rsquo;m here to
encourage you to persist, even though confusion hasn&rsquo;t dissolved
and peace and security hasn&rsquo;t emerged fully.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If Heaven were OUTSIDE you, you could not share in its gladness. Yet
because it is within, the gladness, too, is yours.
</div>

It&rsquo;s there.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You ARE joined in purpose, but remain still separate and divided on the
means.
</div>

You see? This is helpful. This is specifically helpful, because now you
know where the difficulty is. It&rsquo;s in the misperception of the
means. That&rsquo;s the hang-up.

Again, because it is so simple and it can seem to be difficult to grasp,
the means for Awakening, the means for achieving, for lack of better
words, the holy relationship is the two-step, the practice of the holy
instant.

Two-step: Shutting up and reaching out, &ldquo;Father, what is the truth
here?&rdquo;

Holy instant: (In the silence and the pregnancy of your question) The
influx of inspiration and truth is provided to you changing your
perceptions of everything, allowing you to look at what you thought was
just a material world and universe and find it to be actually the
Kingdom of Heaven holding much more for you than you have dreamed. And
then the behavior in that world and with everything in that world, based
on the revelation that has occurred to you. And now the holy instant and
the truth learned in it, has found expression and you&rsquo;re having
now a holy relationship. Those are the simple steps to Waking up, to
abandoning any thought or experience of sin, disease and death ever
again.

It&rsquo;s worth every ounce of energy it takes. It&rsquo;s worth
whatever amount of discipline it takes to manage to go through your day
without, perhaps, forgetting for very long at all, to look with
curiosity to see the more of God than what you&rsquo;re seeing &hellip;
because there is more of God there.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; although, you&rsquo;re hung-up on the means, you can seem to be
successfully distracted from the means &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the goal is fixed, firm and unalterable, and the means will
surely fall in place BECAUSE the goal is sure.
</div>

&hellip; because there are rules. Because God has made everything as He
has made them and there&rsquo;s no other choice.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And you will share the gladness of the Sonship that it is so. As you
begin to recognize and accept the gifts you have so freely given to each
other&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; by staying in the holy instant and not abandoning it and not
engaging in attack &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you will also accept the effects of the holy instant, and use
them to correct all your mistakes and free you from their results.
</div>

It&rsquo;s the healing of relationships. It&rsquo;s all inclusive. Not
just with a partner, but with all of the Brotherhood and all of
Creation.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And learning this, you will have [also] learned how to release ALL the
Sonship, and offer it in gladness and thanksgiving to Him Who gave you
YOUR release, and Who would extend it THROUGH you.
</div>

You will release the Sonship, the Brotherhood, from all of the
misperceptions that you have held them to. You will give them to the
Holy Spirit, so that the Holy Spirit might reflect back to you the
inspiration about all of it, illuminating it as what it truly is and
succeeding, we will say, in lifting you entirely out of the orphanage,
out of the independence, out of the sin, disease and death.

Tomorrow, after having listened to me now, you may have forgotten what I
talked about. You will have slipped back into time, you will have
slipped back into thinking, you will have slipped back into your old
comfortable habits until something comes along that is too uncomfortable
and you say, &ldquo;Oh-h, I guess I&rsquo;d better do the two-step
again.

It&rsquo;s going to happen. You will slip, you will forget and you will
find yourself reminded. But honor your coming Home enough to provide you
with a little bit of structure&mdash;a little bit of obedient
structure&mdash;and give yourself set times to remind yourself by going
to the book, the Course, by going to a transcript of this meeting or
listening to the audio tapes so that you might be reminded with feeling,
not just intellectual awareness, but be reminded with feeling that you
really want to do this and you really don&rsquo;t want to lose your way
and you really don&rsquo;t want to be stuck.

I love you. I love you all.

You know what? Come hell or high water, you&rsquo;re going to do
something this week and you&rsquo;re going to do it in some way &hellip;
you know &hellip; you&rsquo;re not going to be taking a vacation from
doing things in…some…way, so why not let this way be the way
you&rsquo;re going to do it this week. It&rsquo;s not going to be any
harder to do. I mean both ways take energy. Expend it here.

Okay, I look forward to being with your next time.

[^1]: T17.5 The Healed Relationship

