---
title: Aug 20, 2011
ref: "T17.6 Practical Forgiveness"
alink: "/acim/text/17/chap1706/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

A new section:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*Practical Forgiveness*[^1]

The practical application of the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s purpose is
extremely simple&hellip;
</div>

Well, what is the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s purpose? And I actually want to
bring up a point here: Whenever you are reading the Course and you read
a sentence like this for the first time &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; The practical application of the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s purpose is
extremely simple&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you don&rsquo;t have to imagine that you don&rsquo;t have the
capacity to understand what those words mean. In other words, much of
the time you read a sentence and then you read further for explanation.
And in that act you have done nothing to remind yourself of the fact
that you are the holy Son or Daughter of God in whom He has embodied all
that He Is.

God is omniscient, meaning all-knowing and so are you &hellip; and you
&hellip; and you &hellip; and you &hellip; and you &hellip; and you.

Reading this book is not a means of putting knowledge into you so that
you can become omniscient. It is a means of uncovering to you the innate
already existing capacity to know all things so that you might, when you
read words like this, hesitate&mdash;not reading further to find out
what the explanation is&mdash;to stop there and say, &ldquo;Father or
Holy Spirit, what is the meaning of this?

Remember, Helen Shucman is the one who listened and to whom I spoke. And
she wrote down the words that were given and she, although she had made
prior commitment to do this, was no more prepared for it than you are
prepared to stop and enquire, &ldquo;What is the truth here?&rdquo; and
hear the answer. This is the point.

She didn&rsquo;t have a grand gift or a grand assignment that you or any
of you, if you were willing, couldn&rsquo;t have done equally well. It
doesn&rsquo;t take talent, it takes genuine humble listening. It takes
the humble practice of the two-step.

So, what is the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s purpose?

Well, it&rsquo;s simple. If the Holy Spirit is nothing more than your
right Mind, which is being held in trust while you dally with the ego,
then that which is the rest of You beyond the ego definitions you have
created for yourself, then Its purpose is going to be naturally to
re-incorporate (chuckles) this little &ldquo;smart-ass&rdquo; who has
said, &ldquo;I&rsquo;m going to make decisions for myself, Father, and
I&rsquo;m no longer going to rely on You. I&rsquo;m going to be a
self-determined agent on my own.&rdquo;

It&rsquo;s the purpose of the Holy Spirit to undo that decision.
It&rsquo;s the purpose of the sanity of your Being that you can&rsquo;t
actually get beyond or outside of to reduce you, to relax you, to cause
you to be humble enough and quiet enough to let something other than
your personal proud arrogance to register with you.

It&rsquo;s the purpose of the Holy Spirit to return you to your right
Mind &hellip; to return you to your sanity. And as I&rsquo;ve pointed
out, the incredible beauty of this is, that it&rsquo;s the very sanity
of you, which is engaged in motivating you to accept your sanity, to
return to your sanity.

And so when you are asked to lean into Something, to rely completely and
totally on Something in the process of your re-Awakening, you can do it
with utter trust and total commitment, knowing that what you are leaning
into is just You&mdash;your Self, your holy Self, your divine
Being&mdash;which therefore is going to be in all respects, an
experience of intelligent integration, something to be greatly desired
and something that you can trust into in the process.

So now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The practical application of the Holy Spirit's purpose is extremely
simple&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what is the practical application of the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s
purpose?

Why, it&rsquo;s the two-step. It&rsquo;s the holy instant.

That is the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s purpose rendered practical. It is what
we could call radical idealism translated into practical realism.
Simple. Straight-forward.

Now, what is the means by which the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s purpose is
accomplished? What is the means? It&rsquo;s forgiveness &hellip; very
simply. It&rsquo;s forgiveness &hellip; it&rsquo;s you leaning into the
Father, leaning into the Holy Spirit desiring to know what the truth is.
Why? So that in knowing the truth you can abandon the illusions, the
lies, the misperceptions that you have created in an attempt to
determine the world, life, creation and make something out of yourself.

To want to know the truth is the basis of the two-step and the means of
practicing the holy instant.

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The practical application of the Holy Spirit's purpose is extremely
simple, but it IS unequivocal.
</div>

In other words, it&rsquo;s not a multiple-choice. It&rsquo;s
unequivocal. You could say that it&rsquo;s a matter of it being or
not-being, that it is or it isn&rsquo;t. But it&rsquo;s more unequivocal
than that. It&rsquo;s &hellip; the truth Is. Reality Is. You Are. And
what you Are is the direct expression of the Father.

Now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The practical application of the Holy Spirit's purpose is extremely
simple, but it IS unequivocal.
</div>

It&rsquo;s always and only about forgiveness. It&rsquo;s always and only
about knowing only the truth.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In fact, in order to be simple it MUST be unequivocal. The simple is
merely what is easily understood, and for this it is apparent that it
must be clear.
</div>

Okay. What is it that you&rsquo;re going to be understanding?
You&rsquo;re going to be understanding the truth. And how are you going
to find out what the truth is so that it can be clear to you?

Well, you&rsquo;ve got to stop thinking. You&rsquo;ve got to stop
figuring things out for yourself. You&rsquo;ve got to hesitate and turn
beyond or aside from your preoccupation with your best thinking and ask
of Something outside what you call yourself, &ldquo;What is the truth
here?&rdquo;

Now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The setting of the Holy Spirit's goal is general.
</div>

By that, we would say it&rsquo;s forgiveness. Forgiveness is a very
general term. Forgiveness of what? Now we become specific. But in order
to Wake up, in order to allow the Holy Spirit to accomplish its purpose
of returning you to your right Mind, you must operate on an entirely new
basis. You must operate on a basis outside, as I&rsquo;ve said, your
best thinking, reasoning, logic, etcetera.

The specifics of forgiveness must come from your practice of
listening&mdash;of turning to Guidance. Until you&rsquo;ve done that,
you don&rsquo;t know what to do. And you don&rsquo;t know what the
specific means of forgiveness will look like.

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The setting of the Holy Spirit's goal is general.
</div>

And again, what is the goal? The goal is to know the truth, because
knowing the truth will constitute you abandoning your false definitions
and your manipulative controlling actions, which you bring into play
when you think you&rsquo;re on your own.

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The setting of the Holy Spirit's goal is general. Now He will work with
you to make it specific.
</div>

You see? Oh-h, you know, I know that many read the Course and they
understand that forgiveness is the goal &hellip; and you can go on an
internal- witch-hunt finding all the unlovely, unkind unloving things
you&rsquo;ve done or thought about somebody and correct them.

But you know what? You&rsquo;re still employing the same mechanical
action that you used in order to create a negative determination or
definition about your Brother or about your world. One minute
you&rsquo;re creating negativity about your world and Brother and the
next moment you are creating positivity, forgiving thoughts, kind
thoughts, loving thoughts &hellip; and aren&rsquo;t you wonderful in the
process? And it misses the point because you&rsquo;re doing it all by
yourself.

You&rsquo;re not forgiving because you&rsquo;ve said, &ldquo;Father or
Holy Spirit, what is the truth here about my Brother?&mdash;not the
truth about his faults, not the truth of why he behaves in the odd
peculiar behavior he behaves&mdash;but what is the God&rsquo;s honest
truth about him? How does the Father see him &hellip; what is the actual
truth of him aside from his poor definitions of himself and aside from
my poor definitions of him?&rdquo; You see?

That&rsquo;s wanting to know the truth&mdash;that&rsquo;s wanting to
know the truth that will be transformational. It&rsquo;s that simple.
It&rsquo;s also that black and white. It&rsquo;s that unequivocal.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He will work with you &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; this Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
will work with you to make it specific.
</div>

His general goal.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There are certain very specific guidelines He provides for any
situation, but remember that you do not yet realize their universal
application. Therefore, it is essential, at this point, to use them in
each situation separately, until you can more safely look BEYOND each
situation, in an understanding far broader than you now possess.
</div>

You&rsquo;re breaking old habits. And let&rsquo;s put it this way,
you&rsquo;re breaking well-established, long-established habits when you
abandon your self-governing, self-controlling mindset. You don&rsquo;t
know yet what&rsquo;s normal, what&rsquo;s natural to a holy Son or
Daughter of God. And you can&rsquo;t take in the whole picture and so
you must let the Holy Spirit guide you directly in each specific case.

Now, I&rsquo;ll tell you something: This helps accomplish the
establishment of an active relationship between you and the Father or
between you and the Holy Spirit&mdash;your right Mind&mdash;because in
each instance you will need to ask, &ldquo;What&rsquo;s the truth here?
What do I need to know? How do I need to approach this? You see?

You must ask for the truth in every case. And let yourself be guided in
order to first of all establish a real ongoing relationship with the
Holy Spirit&mdash;your right Mind&mdash;or the Father or your Guide. You
see?

I know &hellip; when you do, it makes you feel stupid because
you&rsquo;re asking about every little thing. But you want to know the
truth &hellip; you want to know the truth because that sets you free
from your delusions. And when you&rsquo;re set free from your delusions,
your right Mind appears to you&mdash;appears as the place in which
you&rsquo;re experiencing everything&mdash;and you become sane.

Now what isn&rsquo;t clear to you is, that as you take these tiny steps,
we&rsquo;ll say, where you&rsquo;re asking &hellip; what is the truth
here? what is the truth here? what do I need to know here? for every
little thing &hellip; when you do that, initially you think that you are
attending to some specific circumstances in your daily life&mdash;very
localized&mdash;you have no sense that your understanding the truth
about the situation, might actually have universal aspects to it.

You see, God is not only omniscience, meaning that you are not only
omniscience, but God is also omnipresent, which means that you are
omnipresent. But as you go through your day, you feel very tiny and have
no sense of your omnipresence and you have no sense of connection on a
grand or large scale.

Now at the present time in the world, you&rsquo;re finding out that
everyone is linked together. You&rsquo;re finding that you do not live
on a globe occupied by independent entities that have nothing to do with
each other. You are becoming utterly aware of the inter-connection, the
unity, I&rsquo;m going to even say, of everyone. You&rsquo;re becoming
uncomfortably aware of it. But it is a blessing, because if you are
truly losing your capacity to think that you or your country are
independent and separate from everything else, if you are losing your
ability to believe that, then you are coming into a rather clear
experience of what I&rsquo;m going to call &ldquo;unity
consciousness.&rdquo;

But it bothers you because being independent and being sovereign,
whether it&rsquo;s as a country, or as a state, or as a city, or a
municipality, or as an ego yourself, it is something that in the process
of Awakening, you&rsquo;re going to have to let go of. And as
you&rsquo;re finding out, you&rsquo;re having to yield to and
acknowledge something you didn&rsquo;t believe, but something that has
been the case and known by those who are running the world for a long
time, even though you just lived in your country, or your city, or your
state and you did your thing and everyone else did their thing and
nobody ever felt the connection, felt the unalterable connection, felt
the connection that means that what happens in one place is happening to
everyone.

This is a marvelous Awakening.

Now if, as you are finding, other people&rsquo;s problems are yours as
well, and if you are finding that the way people handle themselves on
the other side of the globe can cause ripple-out effects that absolutely
affect you negatively, then you&rsquo;ve learned a principle&mdash;a
practical, wonderful principle. And that is: That since everything is
inter-connected, then somebody &hellip; and it might be you, might be
you, it might be any of you &hellip; is capable of and actually to some
degree has the responsibility to have an answer that ripples-out and
blesses everyone. You see?

You are experiencing, at a gut level, at an experiential level, the fact
that everything is One and what happens to one happens to everyone and
what one does is done to everyone. And you would be wise not to get
upset and arrogant and pissed-off at how badly everyone is behaving and
causing you such problems because you have a task. You have a wonderful
task and that is to say, &ldquo;Father, what is the truth here?&rdquo;
It is to do the two-step, so that you might be infilled with answers
that annihilate or undo or dissolve the problems that cause correction
in the mindsets that are creating the problems. You see?

If you can be as directly affected by negativity and unintelligence as
you are, then everyone else&mdash;and you as well&mdash;can be affected
constructively by the practice of those who are doing the two-step.

What is this called? Practical Forgiveness. Practical forgiveness
relates today. If, as I said, you can read a sentence in the Course that
you&rsquo;ve never read before, and you don&rsquo;t have to read further
to understand it because you have the capacity to ask&mdash;which is
doing the two-step&mdash;&ldquo;Father, what does this mean? Holy
Spirit, what does this mean?&rdquo; and you can get the answer &hellip;
if you can do it here, you can do it relative to the things that are
going on in the world today and the financial pressures and dilemmas and
so on.

It&rsquo;s time to engage in Practical Forgiveness. What is forgiveness
again? It&rsquo;s not saying, &ldquo;Oh-h, I love you. You&rsquo;re just
wonderful. It doesn&rsquo;t matter what you did. I accept you &hellip;
blah, blah, blah.&rdquo; No. Because that may or may not call forth
correction&mdash;enlightenment, that which uncovers in the one
you&rsquo;re dealing with, the realization of why he doesn&rsquo;t need
to behave the way he&rsquo;s behaving because he isn&rsquo;t the poor
piss-ant mortal that he thought he was&mdash;and engaging with you while
you were listening and asking, &ldquo;What is the truth here? . . so
that you could reflect it and give it, has made him able to make a
sudden shift of perception. Which is what? As defined in the Course: A
miracle.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In any situation in which you are uncertain, the first thing to
consider, very simply, is, "What do I want to come of this? What is it
FOR?" The clarification of the goal belongs at the BEGINNING, for it is
this which will determine the outcome.
</div>

So when you say, when you consider very simply, What do I want to come
of this? that means you&rsquo;re asking, &ldquo;What is the truth here?
I want the truth here. What is the truth here? I don&rsquo;t want my
imaginations. I don&rsquo;t want what all the pundits are saying and
what I&rsquo;m hearing or reading. I want to know what is the truth here
and I want to know it of one Who Knows. I want to know it of the Holy
Spirit. And it&rsquo;s more important to me to listen for that than it
is to listen to all of the opinions that are being shared. I may have
listened to them, but now I am listening to the Holy Spirit within, not
so I can have some smart-ass rebuttal to everyone&rsquo;s stupidity, but
so that I might find myself privy to the God-likeness of my Brother or
my Sister or of the situation, and what the truth is here so that I can
give my attention to bringing that forth rather than my fears or
judgments or egotistical opinions.&rdquo; You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The clarification of the goal belongs at the BEGINNING, for it is this
which will determine the outcome.
</div>

And again, the goal is what? Forgiveness. But specifically, to know the
truth&mdash;Ye shall know the truth and the truth shall make you
free[^2]&mdash;what you want to know. Your goal is to know the truth
because in knowing the truth you will abandon your mean-spirited,
small-minded judgments against your Brother or Sister, which you use as
a means of controlling them because you&rsquo;re scared shitless because
you don&rsquo;t know who you Are and you feel vulnerable because you
don&rsquo;t know who your Father Is. And that&rsquo;s why you behave
badly.

Now on the other hand:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In the ego's procedure, this is reversed. The SITUATION &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; without asking, &ldquo;What&rsquo;s the purpose here?
What&rsquo;s the goal?&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The SITUATION itself becomes the determiner of the outcome, which can be
anything.
</div>

&ldquo;Well, I guess I&rsquo;m just going to have to ride this one out.
And after it&rsquo;s over, we&rsquo;ll see what the hell happened.
I&rsquo;m going to ride this one out though.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The SITUATION [itself] becomes the determiner of the outcome, which can
be anything. The reason for this disorganized approach is evident. The
ego does not know what it WANTS to come of it.
</div>

See? The ego doesn&rsquo;t have a goal of what it wants to come of it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is aware of what it does NOT want, but only that. It has no positive
goal at all.
</div>

And what is it aware of that it does not want? It does not want you to
remember who you Are. It does not want you to go down any path that will
lead you to a sudden discovery of your holiness. Because the moment that
happens the ego will lose your faith in it and it will lose its control
over you. That&rsquo;s the only thing it knows. It knows what it does
not want.

And as I&rsquo;ve said recently, this is the definition of evil: That
which has as its intent to keep you ignorant of your divinity, of your
holiness, of your Birthright of who you Are. It also does not want you
to recognize the holiness of your Brother and that&rsquo;s why you hold
your Brother, I&rsquo;m going to say, in contempt or in negative
judgment. The simple fact is, in your realization of your
Brother&rsquo;s divinity, there is an inseparable and simultaneous
realization of Yours.

Now, this gives you a bit bigger idea of the universal nature of the
Holy Spirit&rsquo;s goal for you. Because it&rsquo;s not just you
remembering who you Are but it&rsquo;s you remembering who your Brother
Is truly and in that acknowledgement, healing your Brother and healing
your relationship. So something you thought might just be about you
&hellip; it necessarily ends up being about you and someone else
together.

Now, I&rsquo;m going to leave it there for tonight, because we&rsquo;ve
laid a groundwork here for what&rsquo;s to come. It can seem complicated
even though it&rsquo;s very simple. And I want you to abide with it
during this coming week.

Again, it is going to lay the groundwork for more solid commitment from
you relative to your Awakening and relative to the way you&rsquo;re
going to respond to events in the world as they come up during this
coming week and beyond. Because it&rsquo;s a new way &hellip; it&rsquo;s
a requirement to do it in a new way. And you are feeling it in terms of
discomfort.

But the discomfort, as I said, provides you with proof that you and
everyone else have the means to set into motion exactly the opposite of
the problems that seem to be happening&mdash;the very same practice that
is creating the problems, reversed, resolves them.

Insight is what will make the difference. Because insight is something
that others can recognize as well. And the insight become contagious, if
you will, and spreads and learning, globally, can happen very rapidly.

So enjoy doing something different this week than you may have been
doing in past weeks, as we bring the practice of the holy instants and
practical forgiveness into the picture more and more clearly.

I love you all. And I look forward to being with you next time.

[^1]: T17.6 Practical Forgiveness
[^2]: John 8:32

