---
title: Aug 27, 2011
ref: "T17.6 Practical Forgiveness"
alink: "/acim/text/17/chap1706/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

We ended up last week with the thought from the Course that:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In any situation in which you are uncertain, the first thing to
consider, very simply, is &ldquo;What do I want to come of this? What is
it FOR?&rdquo; The clarification of the goal belongs at the BEGINNING,
for it is this which will determine the outcome. In the ego&rsquo;s
procedure, this is reversed. The SITUATION becomes the determiner of the
outcome, which can be anything. The reason for this disorganized
approach is evident. The ego does not know what it WANTS to come of it.
It is aware of what it does NOT want, but only that. It has no positive
goal at all.
</div>

What do I want to come of this?

Don&rsquo;t get trapped by the question. Because it sounds like
you&rsquo;re asking your self&mdash;you&rsquo;re puny little ego sense
of self: &ldquo;What do I want to come of this?&rdquo; And that&rsquo;s
not what we&rsquo;re talking about. We&rsquo;re talking about the
practice of the two-step. We&rsquo;re talking about abandoning your
dependence upon your best thinking.

And in the place of that, in the silence of your thinking&mdash;the
absence of your thinking&mdash;enquiring of the Father: &ldquo;What is
the truth here or what do I want to come of this?&rdquo; That&rsquo;s
the question you take to the Holy Spirit when you hesitate and do the
two-step and practice the holy instant. That&rsquo;s how you practice
it.

&ldquo;Father, what do I want to come of this? Father, as Your Son or
Your Daughter, what do I want to come of this situation?&rdquo; You see?
&ldquo;What is it for? I want to know. I want to know Your Perspective
because Your Perspective is the Birthright You have given me. Your
Perspective is the Perspective that is inherent in me and I do not want
to continue to act as though there&rsquo;s no connection between us. And
in fact, I want the connection to be so solid that what I&rsquo;m asking
for is from Your Perspective, what do I want to come of this? What is it
for?&rdquo; You see?

That&rsquo;s the key. It isn&rsquo;t just that you ask ahead of time
before you act, &ldquo;What do I want the outcome to be?&rdquo;
It&rsquo;s that you ask, &ldquo;Father, what do I as Your Son or
Daughter want the outcome to be?&rdquo; You see? It&rsquo;s an act of
joining.

Where just saying to yourself, &ldquo;What do I want the outcome to
be?&rdquo; is an independent act and isn&rsquo;t what this is about.

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Without a clearcut, positive goal, set at the outset&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; not by you, not by your determination, but by virtue of your
asking, &ldquo;Father what is the positive goal here?&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the situation just seems to happen&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; without a clear-cut practice of the two-step &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the situation just seems to happen, and makes no sense until it
has ALREADY happened. THEN you look back at it, and try to piece
together what it must have meant.
</div>

And you end up engaging in conjecture about what it must have meant.

&ldquo;&hellip;Well it must&rsquo;ve had this meaning &hellip; it must
have been the Democrats or the Republicans &hellip; or it must&rsquo;ve
been the greed &hellip; or it must have been this or that that was
responsible for it &hellip;&rdquo;

What was responsible for it was, that the two-step wasn&rsquo;t
practiced. That&rsquo;s all. No one said, &ldquo;Father, what is the
truth here?&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you look back at it, and try to piece together what it must
have meant. And you will be WRONG. Not only is your judgment in the
past, but you have no idea what SHOULD happen. No goal was set with
which to bring the means in line. And now the only judgment left to make
is whether or not the ego likes it; is it acceptable, or does it call
for vengeance?
</div>

Those are the only two questions that can be asked afterwards, and asked
of the ego.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The absence of a criterion for outcome, set IN ADVANCE&hellip;
</div>

What? By virtue of having done the two-step, having listened, and having
heard &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; makes understanding doubtful and evaluation impossible.
</div>

On the other hand, if we reverse it, if you have done the two-step, if
you have listened, and you have heard, it makes understanding inevitable
and evaluation completely possible.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The value of deciding in advance what you WANT to happen &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what the Father discloses to you that you want to happen
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is simply that you will perceive the situation as a means to
MAKE it happen.
</div>

Now I shared a story some time ago about two shoe companies, each
sending a shoe salesman to Africa. And three months go by and one of the
companies realizes that there&rsquo;s no productivity, there are no
sales going on. And that company sends a dispatch to its salesman, it
says: &ldquo;What&rsquo;s the problem?&rdquo;

Well, a dispatch comes back and the salesman said, &ldquo;It&rsquo;s
obvious, nobody wears shoes here.&rdquo; What can you expect, was the
meaning.

Now on the other hand, the other salesman had had sales that skyrocketed
through the roof. And at the end of three months, although the company
was very grateful, they wrote and said, &ldquo;How do you account for
all of the sales?&rdquo; He says, &ldquo;Well, it&rsquo;s obvious
&hellip; no one wears shoes here.&rdquo; You see?

Now, here&rsquo;s the thing. You can&rsquo;t take this example literally
absolutely. But it expresses an idea. First of all, let&rsquo;s say that
the first fellow did not do the two-step, walked into a situation, read
the situation according to his best judgments and his experience. He
says, &ldquo;Wow, these people have a heritage of going barefoot. It has
meaning to them. It conveys to them a groundedness, a connectedness with
Mother Earth and so on. We&rsquo;re not going to be able to overcome
this kind of conditioning.&rdquo;

This fellow did not do the two-step. He ended up listening to his best
judgments. And what was he listening to? He was listening to the voice
for fear. He was not listening to the Voice for truth. He was coming
entirely from his orphan mentality&mdash;no connection to anything
divine, himself, no capacity or inclination to look for divine purpose
in the situation.

On the other hand, we could say that the other salesman did the two-step
and heard the truth, &ldquo;nobody wears shoes here. It&rsquo;s open for
discovery and sales and providing these people with something they
didn&rsquo;t know they could have but they will like.&rdquo; You see?

Now, the interesting thing about this example is that both of them heard
the same answer: &ldquo;Nobody wears shoes here.&rdquo;

That answer you could say, was the truth. But one of them heard the
truth through the voice for fear, in that there was no means to
experience fruition and fulfillment and meaningfulness. And so he had a
meaningless experience. And his connection with those in Africa that he
could have sold shoes to also had a meaningless experience where there
could have been a different one.

Okay. On the other hand, the other salesman listened, he heard the truth
and the truth heard through the Voice for truth did not have an
impediment in it that said nothing will work out, there&rsquo;s no
opportunity here. And so the two had a totally different experience.

Now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The value of deciding in advance what you WANT to happen is simply that
you will perceive the situation as a means to MAKE it happen.
</div>

The one salesman who was successful saw no reason, found no negative
thoughts to cause him to feel that he had a problem to overcome.  He
simply saw opportunity that he could allow to occur and bless everyone.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You will therefore make every effort &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; which he did, the salesman &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; to overlook what interferes with the accomplishment of your
objective, and concentrate on everything which helps you meet it.
</div>

You see?

Now sometimes the truth will be two different answers. But in this case,
and it&rsquo;s helpful to know this, the truth that is the same answer
heard through the voice for fear or heard through the Voice for truth,
has two entirely different and contradictory effects. And this is
important to understand.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is quite noticeable &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that using the two-step &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is quite noticeable that this approach has brought you closer to the
Holy Spirit's sorting out of truth and falsity. The true becomes what
can be used to meet the goal. The false becomes the useless from this
point of view.
</div>

The idea, &ldquo;nobody wears shoes here&rdquo; for the one with no
connection to the Father&rsquo;s Perspective experienced the false and
it was useless. But the other Son of God, doing the two-step, saw the
same truth and it became useful.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The true becomes what can be used to meet the goal. The false becomes
the useless from this point of view. The situation now has meaning, but
only because the GOAL has made it meaningful.

The goal of truth has further practical advantages. If the situation
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; whatever the situation might be &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is used for truth and sanity, its outcome MUST be peace.
</div>

Now how do you use a situation for truth and sanity? By abandoning your
best thinking, your best judgments, and becoming still and enquiring
beyond your best judgments and thinking, &ldquo;what is the truth
here?&rdquo; knowing that you are asking of the Holy Spirit&mdash;which
is nothing more than your Right mind&mdash;or the Father, which is That
which has expressed in you your Birthright as His Son or Daughter. You
see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If the situation is used for truth and sanity, its outcome MUST be
peace. And this is quite apart from what the outcome IS.
</div>

In other words, peace will be the fundamental outcome. And it will lay
the groundwork for the manifest outcome for the evidence of the
Father&rsquo;s Will being experienced. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If peace is the condition of truth and sanity, and cannot be WITHOUT
them, where peace is THEY must be.
</div>

THEY, being truth and sanity, and peace is the condition of them.

So truly, when you are engaging in the two-step, when you are engaging
in the practice of the holy instant, you are engaging in an intent to be
at peace. It&rsquo;s that simple. And the times when you will be called
upon most stringently to engage in the two-step so that you might
experience your peace, are when it seems as though peace is an
impossible experience to have &hellip; because there is an emergency!
There is something that requires your attention! There is something
which requires your personal control! There is something which requires
you to do something &ldquo;out there&rdquo; physical&mdash;actual!

But what you&rsquo;re all having to condition yourself to understand is,
that that demand which seems to call for an outward act of taking
charge, is actually a demand to shut up&mdash;to choose for your peace
&hellip; to abandon your independent, frightened, concerned stance and
sense of self, to immediately shift your attention to the Father to
enquire as to His Perspective or to the Holy Spirit&mdash;that which is
nothing but your right Mind&mdash;to hear what the truth is, what the
Father&rsquo;s Perspective is, so that you might act from there, act
from the experience of it that is revealed to you. You&rsquo;re to do
this as immediately as the situation seems to demand you to act. But the
action is one of turning to the Father [snaps fingers] quickly, without
wasting your time arguing, without wasting your time being upset by the
demand &hellip; all of these are things that delay the experience of
fulfillment.

You do it instantly by neglecting to do what doesn&rsquo;t work, which
is thinking, reasoning, valuing the opportunity to become somebody in
your own right. See, it&rsquo;s neglecting to do that, [snaps fingers]
quickly neglecting to do that.

Neglecting, that&rsquo;s effortless. [snaps fingers] Quickly doing what
is effortless, and saying, &ldquo;Father what is the truth here?&rdquo;
You see?

In that way, the situation which is calling for correction is being used
for the purpose of establishing the goal at the outset. Not after the
emergency is past, where then you find a way to show that somehow God
was teaching you a grand lesson &hellip; you see? &hellip; which you
didn&rsquo;t know at the time but you know, you&rsquo;ve been able to
make some sense out of it.

No &hellip; no. That will not give you the correct answer. That will not
give you a relevant answer. It will, perhaps, make you feel a little bit
more comfortable in your ignorance. But it&rsquo;s an ignorance you
shouldn&rsquo;t have to be made comfortable in and the way not to be in
that position is to learn to quickly [snaps fingers] instantly say, in
the face of the situation: &ldquo;Father, what is the truth here?
Father, what is the purpose here? Father what do I need to know?&rdquo;

Because in that way you will know what to do and you will see how the
situation can become the means for the correction. An important thing to
grasp.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you experience peace, it is because the truth has come to you, and
you will see the outcome truly, for deception cannot prevail against
you. And you will recognize the outcome BECAUSE you are at peace. Here
again, you see the opposite of the ego's way of looking, for the ego
believes the SITUATION brings the experience.
</div>

And of course, the experience that the situation brings isn&rsquo;t
something you can understand until afterwards, after it has
steamrollered you, after it has chewed you up and spit you out and left
you in a position where you really have to look hard to find out where
the blessing was in it. And then you do it instead of saying,
&ldquo;Absolutely not! This is not the correct answer and I&rsquo;m not
to find benefit or blessing in it. I&rsquo;m not to find blessing in not
practicing the holy instant. If I want the blessing, I must practice it.
If I practice it, I will find the peace even though the emergency seems
to say, &ldquo;You can&rsquo;t have your peace until the situation has
runs its course.&rdquo; Bullshit! And you must be willing to say that or
any equivalent disclaimer of the suggestion.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit knows that the situation is as the goal determines it,
and is experienced ACCORDING to the goal.
</div>

So once again, the focus here &hellip; the only answer here is, that the
moment a demand presents itself to you, the moment a situation presents
itself to you that leaves you at a loss, you must, [snaps fingers] right
then &hellip; hesitate. Don&rsquo;t engage in your knee jerk mental
response. And you say, even though you don&rsquo;t think you have time
to ask for answers, you say, &ldquo;Father, what is the truth
here?&rdquo; You refuse to re-act. You insist on silencing the reaction.
And you say with commitment, &ldquo;Father, what is the truth here?
Father what is the answer that heals here? What is the answer that
blesses, not curses the apparent cause of the situation&mdash;that
causes me to be at a loss?&rdquo; You see?

It really is simple. It&rsquo;s so simple that I can&rsquo;t put it in a
lot of different words over and over. And so I know it is beginning to
seem monotonous: You&rsquo;ve got to do the two-step &hellip;
you&rsquo;ve got to do the two-step &hellip; or I could say you&rsquo;ve
got to practice the holy instant. So we have two ways to say it, but
I&rsquo;ve got to say it over and over because that is the simple
answer.

Stop and think about it for a moment. Look back over your lifetime. You
have had situations haven&rsquo;t you? You have had lots of situations.
Some of them dire emergencies at the time, some of them just mild
emergencies, but always things that caused you fear and brought you to a
point where you felt obligated to act, to get control and to resolve the
situation all by your puny little self &hellip; right?

Oh yes, it motivated you to ask God, it motivated you to prayer &hellip;
to pray. But here&rsquo;s the thing I want to ask you: Are you still
here to listen to me talk to you tonight? Did those dire emergencies
&hellip; did those situations kill you off? No! That should tell you
right there that you can afford to take five minutes in the face of a
situation to stop and say, &ldquo;Father, what is the truth here?&rdquo;
You could even take a day to stop the reaction and not respond &hellip;
and get into your peace.

After all, some of the emergencies you&rsquo;ve had, happened twenty
years ago and you still haven&rsquo;t sat down and said, &ldquo;Father,
what&rsquo;s the truth here about that situation? That situation where I
seemed to have a burst appendix and it had to be removed.&rdquo; Is your
appendix back yet? Have you had the healing of that situation yet? You
might as well do it now. You could have done it then &hellip; you
didn&rsquo;t know, but you could have done it then. You can do it now.
Do you see what I&rsquo;m saying?

You can engage in the holy instant about a situation that happened
twenty years ago, you can engage in the holy instant relative to it now
twenty years later. You see?

So you can in the face of an emergency today neglect to react, neglect
to throw your world up-side-down and your mind into chaos. And you can
choose to shut up. And in the silence in you ask the Father to know the
truth. Ask the Father, &ldquo;What do I want to come of this, as Your
Son or Daughter, the recipient of my Birthright that You have given me,
what do I want to become of this? What is is for?&rdquo; And then listen
innocently without providing background fill of all the things that you
can come up with.

Leave your mind in pristine quietness and continue to listen and you
will feel the peace come and then you will feel truth and sanity which
are inseparable from your peace. And you will hear the answer. And then
you will know what needs to be done and the means that the situation
provides will clearly be the supportive environment in which the
correction can occur. It&rsquo;s the truth.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you experience peace, it is because the truth has come to you, and
you will see the outcome truly, for deception cannot prevail against
you.
</div>

If you choose to listen to the voice for fear and remain independent,
then deception will prevail against you and you have no choice about it.
And at the moment, deception is prevailing in your lives every time you
choose to think that you are an independent entity, capable of becoming
successful by employing means and manipulations that take advantage of
your Brother in the process of exalting you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[And] you will recognize the outcome BECAUSE you are at peace. Here
again, you see the opposite of the ego's way of looking, for the ego
believes the SITUATION brings the experience. The Holy Spirit knows that
the situation is as the goal determines it, and is experienced ACCORDING
to the goal.
</div>

Now:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The goal of truth requires faith.
</div>

The reason you snatch up whatever bits of control you think you have
available to you to get hold of the situation to make yourself safe is
because you&rsquo;re not used to practicing faith. You&rsquo;re not used
to making an investment of you in wanting to know what the truth is and
listening for it outside of your best judgments, and then daring to make
commitment to it and base your actions upon it. You&rsquo;re not used to
that. That&rsquo;s faith.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The goal of truth requires faith. Faith is implicit in the acceptance of
the Holy Spirit's purpose, and this faith is all-inclusive. Where the
goal of truth is set, there faith MUST be.
</div>

So what is your goal in the face of a situation? Your goal is to find
out what the truth is &hellip; what the God&rsquo;s honest truth is.
What God&rsquo;s honest truth is.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit sees the situation as a WHOLE. The goal establishes the
fact that everyone involved in it will play his part in its
accomplishment.
</div>

You see? When you&rsquo;re all by yourself, when you&rsquo;re doing
things independently, you see everybody else as independent too. You see
everyone else behaving in a self-centered, arrogant, mean-spirited,
self-protective way to the disadvantage of everyone else, just as you
are. That doesn&rsquo;t allow you to feel much trust. That doesn&rsquo;t
allow you to feel any reason to have faith.

But when you listen and when you hear and the goal of truth is revealed
to you and you find your peace and truth and sanity reside in your
awareness, then you will see that everyone involved will play his part
in its accomplishment &hellip; will play his part in the fruition of the
Father&rsquo;s Will or Intent &hellip; and you will sell a lot of shoes,
in so many words.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is inevitable. No-one will fail in anything. This seems to ask for
faith beyond you, and beyond what you can give.
</div>

Isn&rsquo;t that marvelous? You see, the first salesman says,
&ldquo;Have to have faith beyond you. Oh-h, I can&rsquo;t have faith
beyond me,&rdquo; because he doesn&rsquo;t know who he Is. And the other
salesman who knows he&rsquo;s a Son of God and hears, &ldquo;Oh, you
need to have faith beyond you,&rdquo; he says, &ldquo;Oh, I know.
That&rsquo;s wonderful. Of course, yes, I&rsquo;m with that. I&rsquo;m
yielding to that all the time.&rdquo; You see? So the same truth is
experienced both for and against the one embracing it depending upon the
vantage point from which that one is looking at the situation.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This seems to ask for faith beyond you, and beyond what you can give.
</div>

In effect you can read that and hear that as a promise of a capacity
that you don&rsquo;t think you have so that you can say, &ldquo;Wow,
well I&rsquo;m going to believe what Raj is saying. It&rsquo;s asking
for faith beyond me and beyond what I can give. That must mean
I&rsquo;ve got the capacity. So I&rsquo;m going to eagerly pay attention
to receiving the awareness of that capacity so that I might feel it and
be at one with it and bring no opposition into my experience of it. You
see? That&rsquo;s the good news and that&rsquo;s the good response.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet this is so only from the viewpoint of the ego&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning that it&rsquo;s beyond you and beyond what you can give
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; this is so only from the viewpoint of the ego, for the ego
believes in "solving" conflict &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you know, bringing your innate independent capacities to
improve yourself and think clearly and logically and come up with
answers that bless you and bless others. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the ego believes in "solving" conflict through
fragmentation&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; not through joining, through being and continuing to be
independent, separate, separate and apart from all the others who are
being separate and apart from you and everyone else. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and does NOT perceive the situation as a whole.
</div>

If you are choosing for your peace and you&rsquo;re willing to abide in
it and invite of the Holy Spirit the awareness of the truth and the
experience of what the Son or Daughter of God feels in the experience of
truth, then that holy Son or Daughter of God does not look out as an
independent agent and does not see others as independent agents &hellip;
but sees everyone, including himself, in the context of wholeness, in
the context of the Father&rsquo;s Intent in the expression of Creation
in which all of the Sons and Daughters of God have available to them the
concrete experience of Reality where no threat, no separation, no
vulnerability exists. It sees it all in its infinity as a unified whole.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Therefore&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the ego, which does not perceive the situation as a whole
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; seeks to split off segments of the situation and deal with them
SEPARATELY, for it has faith in separation, and not in wholeness.
</div>

Important &hellip; especially if there are a number of different
elements, each capable of acting and causing things to happen separate
from the other &hellip; you have the &ldquo;House of
Representatives&rdquo; or &ldquo;The Senate&rdquo; or any other
government on the globe which has factions which can be manipulated to
overthrow the other things that need to be handled because everyone is
being orchestrated in a different form of attack or coercion, not
knowing of how many tendrils of control are being exercised. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the ego believes in "solving" conflict through fragmentation,
and does NOT perceive the situation as a whole. Therefore, seeks to
split off segments of the situation and deal with them SEPARATELY, for
it has faith in separation, and not in wholeness.
</div>

And individuals just like you do exactly the same thing. And you get
parts of families to work against the other parts of families or to try
to coerce them into a positive direction, but it&rsquo;s still all
manipulation that does not by its very means of solving the problem,
communicate unity and the value of the wholeness of family that is
primal, that is fundamental. You see?

We&rsquo;re reading a section called Practical Forgiveness. And what
must be understood is that inseparable from practical forgiveness is the
realization that correction of a situation can only occur in a context
of, I&rsquo;m going to say, unlimited unity, but let&rsquo;s also say,
the unity of factions which you have employed and found valuable assets
in getting what you want.

And so this is something you&rsquo;ve got to consciously be willing to
let go of. When you are engaging in the holy instant and when you want
to know the truth, understand that the truth you will hear will not be
something you can use to coerce people with or to control them with.

You know what it is?

It&rsquo;s the dawning in your heart of the presence of Love that
embraces and unifies because there&rsquo;s no place in it &hellip;
there&rsquo;s no place in the presence of Love for independence, for
factions, for fragmentation to be or to seem to be valuable or to seem
to be useful.

And that&rsquo;s tonight&rsquo;s message. That sums it up completely.
And so we&rsquo;re going to stop here and let it rest.

And I look forward to being with you next time. I love you all.

[^1]: T17.6 Practical Forgiveness

