---
title: Sep 3, 2011
ref: "T17.6 Practical Forgiveness"
alink: "/acim/text/17/chap1706/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

Last week we considered some important things, all of which stemmed from
the statement we began with, which was:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In any situation in which you are uncertain, the first thing to
consider, very simply, is, &ldquo;What do I want to come of this? What
is it FOR?&rdquo; The clarification of the goal belongs at the
BEGINNING, for it is this which will determine the outcome&hellip;[^1]
</div>

Now, there&rsquo;s something that wasn&rsquo;t brought out. And that is,
that when you see a situation in which you are uncertain, when you see a
situation which causes you to feel vulnerable, potentially unstable and
so on, you are to do this thing of [snaps fingers] stopping right there
and asking, &ldquo;What do I want to come of this? What is it for? What
is its purpose? What is its meaning?&rdquo; And that&rsquo;s the
beginning of the resolution of the problem.

Now you generally tend to think that it&rsquo;s normal to be faced with
situations which make you uncertain. It&rsquo;s normal &hellip;
it&rsquo;s life. And that&rsquo;s why it&rsquo;s a new thing to you, to
ask initially when it first confronts you, &ldquo;What do I want to come
of this?&rdquo;

What you need to know is, that what is causing you to see a situation
that causes you to be uncertain, is the fact that you&rsquo;ve already
asked that question. Before you were confronted by a situation of this
sort, you had asked the question: &ldquo;What do I want to come of this?
What is it for?&rdquo; The only thing is, that you didn&rsquo;t ask this
question of the Holy Spirit. You didn&rsquo;t ask this question of your
Guide. You did not ask this question of your Father. You asked it of
your own best reasoning, your own best judgments&mdash;your puny little
orphan mind. That&rsquo;s the only reason you ever see a situation in
which you are uncertain &hellip; because you&rsquo;ve already asked the
question.

It&rsquo;s not because that&rsquo;s the way the world is and therefore,
you&rsquo;re certainly and naturally confronted with situations that
make you uncertain &hellip; no.

Again, you&rsquo;re in the middle of the Kingdom of Heaven looking
through squinted eyes, saying, &ldquo;I cannot see the
perfection.&rdquo; You&rsquo;re looking through your own eyes, the ones
you believe you have and the vision you have made up. That&rsquo;s all.

So, you&rsquo;re not overcoming some big infinite bogeyman called,
&ldquo;the world and universe&rdquo; that came from a big bang and is
full of conflict naturally and therefore, you are constantly going to be
confronted by that which is conflicted. No. But that&rsquo;s the way the
Kingdom of Heaven looks through mortal eyes. That&rsquo;s the way it
looks through your own private mind.

That which is the problem &hellip; that which is, you could say, the
source of the problem, is the source of the answer. You see? And you
make it difficult for yourselves to see miracles because you think there
is actually a material world in a forever-state of conflict.

If there is no material world, if there is no devil, if there is no
bogeyman &ldquo;out there&rdquo; somewhere separate from you, which
would indeed make it very difficult to Wake up, then you&rsquo;re in a
position of being able to Wake up easily.

Why? Because the problem is the answer. The answer is &ldquo;What is the
problem?&rdquo; The problem is &hellip; you said, &ldquo;What do I want
of this?&rdquo; You see? It&rsquo;s all you, not a big bogeyman, not a
conflicted polarized universe, not a physical world. It&rsquo;s just a
choice you made: &ldquo;What do I want to come of this?&rdquo;

You see the situation? &ldquo;What do I want to come of this?&rdquo; And
you&rsquo;re asking of the voice for fear.

But if you ask that question of the Voice for truth, your vision will be
changed because you&rsquo;re abandoning the voice that made up the
situation. Do you see?

There is no more difficulty to it than that because you&rsquo;re the
problem and you&rsquo;re the answer &hellip; nothing more profound than
that! Do you see?

This is important and it&rsquo;s good.

You&rsquo;re just going to do the same thing but you&rsquo;re going to
ask of a different Teacher. You&rsquo;re going to bring the same amount
of faith and commitment that you did but to a different Teacher.
You&rsquo;ve already been successful&mdash;totally successful&mdash;in
creating a situation in which you are uncertain and where these
questions need to be asked. Therefore, you know that you can be equally
successful in asking the question&mdash;bringing the same amount of
commitment and intent&mdash;that you brought to the other teacher. You
see?

Simplicity &hellip; it&rsquo;s simple. But you create arguments against
the simplicity when you choose to look at the uncertainty with your own
puny little mind and your own puny little capacity, which you&rsquo;re
working ever so hard to increase and to embellish and to make greater.
So keep this in mind.

We also talked about the fact that you love &hellip; the ego loves
separation. The ego loves fragmentation. If you need to accomplish
something, the more points of influence that exist make it easier for
you to cause change to happen. If you have a large group of people, the
larger the group, the more infinite you might say, are the points upon
which you can bring to bear, convincing manipulation. And the more you
have, the better your chances are that you can succeed.

The smaller the number, especially when you get down to just one other,
the more difficult it is to convince and change that one&rsquo;s mind
and bring about unity. You see?

That&rsquo;s one reason, if you are faced with one difficult
situation&mdash;meaning one difficult person&mdash;you will try to
increase the size of the group. You will say to someone else who knows
this person, &ldquo;Hey Joe, come over here. I&rsquo;d like your opinion
&hellip;&rdquo; &ldquo;Hey Mary, come over here, will you, for a moment?
We&rsquo;ve got an issue going here that we need more perspective on
&hellip;&rdquo; See?

And so you increase the size of the group. You fragment it further. And
the moment you do that, you really do make it more impossible to resolve
the problem because you&rsquo;re not letting yourself be fully present
with the situation which is causing uncertainty. And ultimately
you&rsquo;re being unwilling to be present with the situation itself
that is causing uncertainty and asking, &ldquo;Father, what, as Your Son
or Daughter, do I want to come of this?&rdquo; You see? &ldquo;What is
it for?&rdquo;

This is important because these little habits you have keep you from
experiencing sudden shifts of perception that constitute miracles. And
keep you from actually being an agent for change because your behavior
relative to the one who is causing uncertainty for you is such that his
mind can be illuminated with the possibility of unity. And your lack of
divisiveness and your complete benignness, because of who you&rsquo;re
letting yourself be guided by, significantly creates the circumstance in
which this other one can experience a sudden shift of perception. And
it&rsquo;s that simple. And because it works, it&rsquo;s that important.

And so, going into the book:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Confronted with any aspect of the situation which seems to be difficult,
the ego &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you, remaining independent, you, not saying, &ldquo;Father what
is the purpose here? Father, what is this for?&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the ego will attempt to take this aspect elsewhere, and resolve
it there.
</div>

&ldquo;Hey Mary, will you come over here please?&rdquo; &ldquo;Hey Joe,
will you come over here please?&rdquo; And unsaid, you are acting out,
&ldquo;We are not going to deal with this, where the problem is, which
is my choice of who to ask the question of whether it&rsquo;s me or
whether it&rsquo;s the Holy Spirit. We&rsquo;re going to deal with it as
though it&rsquo;s &lsquo;out there&rsquo; completely separate and apart
from my mind. And not only that, we&rsquo;re gonna say that it&rsquo;s
so-and-so that&rsquo;s the problem. And we&rsquo;re going to get
confirmation and support for that from others until we manipulate this
one into obedience and get him to agree to the obvious. And together,
we&rsquo;re bound to find a way to convince him, against his will, in
such a way that he will decide that this was a better choice than being
the problem.&rdquo; You see? And you magnify the problem.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And it will seem to be successful, except that this attempt conflicts
with unity, and must OBSCURE the goal of truth.
</div>

You see? This situation is the one you&rsquo;re already in. It&rsquo;s
not really new. This aspect comes up &hellip; that aspect comes up
&hellip; tomorrow morning another aspect will come up. Of course it
will, because at no point are you, generally speaking, doing the
two-step. You forget and you act on your own&mdash;using your best
judgments, using what truly is your ignorance.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And it will seem to be successful, except that this attempt conflicts
with unity, and must OBSCURE the goal of truth. And peace will not be
experienced except in fantasy.
</div>

&ldquo;Ah-h yes, we finally got him to see it our way and I can let out
a sigh of relief. It was a long hard day&rsquo;s work. But I can go home
tonight and sit down and watch TV and be at peace.&rdquo; Bullshit! The
very idea, &ldquo;I can go home and watch the television and be at
peace&rdquo; was a decision and an explanation of a situation that was
arrived at without ever saying, &ldquo;Father what is the purpose of my
going home tonight?&rdquo; You see? Going home was not something that
was going to be done with That which is nothing more than your right
Mind. You see?

It&rsquo;s something that you&rsquo;re already in the middle of. But
what you&rsquo;re in the middle of is a choice you&rsquo;ve already made
and you are acting out. And it was a choice to say, &ldquo;What do I
want to come of this? What is it for?&rdquo; and asking it of your own
imagination. And the solution is for you to ask the very same questions
&hellip; but not of yourself. Do you see?

Do you see what I&rsquo;m saying? I&rsquo;m saying you don&rsquo;t have
to learn one new thing at all. All you have to do is do the same thing
you&rsquo;ve been doing but giving your attention elsewhere than where
you have been giving it when you&rsquo;re listening for the answer.

So you already have it under the belt. You already know what you need to
know in terms of behavior and decision and purpose and intent.  Ask,
&ldquo;Father what do I want to come of this? Father, what is it
for?&rdquo; You see?

Again, in both cases, whether you&rsquo;re asking truly of the Father or
whether you&rsquo;re asking of your imagination, the thing, the
situation, the circumstance is always part of the Kingdom of Heaven, is
always part of Reality: &ldquo;What is this for?&rdquo; You see?

If you ask that question about what is real of the wrong teacher, you
get the wrong answer. You see?

You think you just get up in the morning. And you open your eyes up and
you sit up on the edge of the bed and you, like a robot, think you know
what everything in your room is for, and what the day is for, and
what&rsquo;s most likely and what you hope for, and all of this &hellip;
all of these definitions have not been given to you, you&rsquo;ve made
them up!  All the meanings, you have made up! And you don&rsquo;t have
to do that.

You can sit up and you can say, &ldquo;Father, what does that dresser
mean? Father, what does that blanket mean? Father, what does the window
mean? Father, what does the cloudy mean? Father, what is the sunny day
for?&rdquo;

You start asking the very same questions that you&rsquo;ve given answers
to yourself and ask them of the Father and I promise you, you will Wake
up. I promise you that it is the way out of the dream.

Now, when you insist upon leaning unto your own understanding, leaning
unto your imagination, peace will not be experienced except in fantasy.
It will be a false peace.  

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Truth has not come, because faith has been
denied, being withheld from where it rightfully belonged.
</div>

Faith in what? Faith in something outside of your own thinking &hellip;
faith in the Holy Spirit&mdash;that which is nothing more than your
right Mind &hellip; faith in your Father/Mother/God. Faith that causes
you to shut up and move into the silence and inquire of a Source
that&rsquo;s not you&mdash;at least not what you recognize as you at
this moment. And you bring faith into that silence and into that
request, just like you brought faith into that question when it was
presented to your imagination. And oh boy, do you think your imagination
is great! And you bring faith in it with gusto! Unless of course, you
have been abused and brought to a place where you have no confidence in
yourself at all.

But most of what are called &ldquo;healthy human beings&rdquo; have a
healthy imagination and have a great faith in it. So great that it feels
no need whatsoever to say, &ldquo;Father,&rdquo; to anything except its
own superior greatness.

You must stop denying faith. You could say you must deny faith in your
own puny little imagination. But if you want to experience the truth
that will constitute an Awakened Mind&mdash;which is inspired to see
truly and to see the Kingdom of Heaven and all of Its perfection where
its opposite had seemed to be before&mdash;then you must practice this,
you must decide to ask a different teacher. That&rsquo;s where faith
rightfully belongs.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Truth has not come, because faith has been denied, being withheld from
where it rightfully belonged. Thus do you lose the understanding of the
situation the goal of truth would bring.
</div>

Thus you have lost &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the understanding of the situation the goal of truth would
bring&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; because you did rely upon your imagination. And you find
yourself in a world that you&rsquo;re able to define as conflicted and
against you. Bottom line: meaning, that you must get up every morning
and anticipate challenge, conflict, and maybe failure.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For fantasy solutions bring but the illusion of experience, and the
illusion of peace is not the condition in which the truth can enter.

The substitutes for aspects of the situation are the witnesses to your
lack of faith.
</div>

They&rsquo;re witnesses of the fact that you did not shut up and say,
(express faith) &ldquo;Father, what is the truth here? Father, what is
this for? Father, what does this mean?&rdquo; You see? You did not bring
faith into practice. You didn&rsquo;t bring it into the picture.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The substitutes for aspects of the situation are the &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; things you bring into the picture or the arena of your
attention that constitute distractions from practicing faith, that
constitute justifications for utilizing manipulation of things in a
world made up of things that are all fundamentally independent from each
other and jockeying for position, each of them against the other,
including you&mdash;you against them and them against you. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Those are what the substitutes are for aspects of the situation. They
demonstrate that you did not believe that the situation and the PROBLEM
were in the same place.
</div>

You understand what that means now: The situation and the problem are in
the same place. They&rsquo;re in the place in your mind where you are
determining who you are going to seek the answers from. On the other
hand, if you are willing to practice the two-step, then what is
demonstrated is, that you realize that the situation and the problem are
in the same place, they&rsquo;re actually the same thing. And the simple
solution is: Ask the question of the other Teacher. Do what calls upon
your faith.

Relying upon your own imagination doesn&rsquo;t really call for a lot of
faith. It calls for a lot of persistence and it calls for a lot of
unending confidence, which for some reason everyone feels they have an
abundance of.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The problem &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the situation that was disconcerting &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; WAS the lack of faith&hellip;
</div>

The problem was the direct experience of your lack of expressing faith,
of your consciously refraining from joining with Something beyond your
best judgments, best thinking, best imagination. You see? This is the
simplicity of it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The problem WAS the lack of faith, and it is this you demonstrate when
you remove it from its source and place it elsewhere.
</div>

You see? You take this part of the Kingdom of Heaven or this little
aspect of the Kingdom of Heaven and you refuse to look at it with your
Father&rsquo;s Eyes&mdash;with the Eyes that were given to you as a
Birthright&mdash;and you&rsquo;ve chosen to look at it through your own
imagination and your own wish to make what you want it to be real. You
see?

So you&rsquo;ve removed this little bit of the Kingdom of Heaven and
you&rsquo;ve moved it from the perspective that the Father is engaged
in, in causing it to exist. And you take this little bit of Reality and
place it elsewhere, where in the barrenness of your disconnection, your
lack of electricity, we&rsquo;ll say, because you&rsquo;ve unplugged the
cord, you&rsquo;ve unplugged the plug. And from there you look at it.
From there you consider it.

But as we&rsquo;ve also mentioned, the minute you&rsquo;ve made that
separation of yourself you found yourself faced with fear and guilt
simultaneously. And so that&rsquo;s part of the characteristic of the
imagination that you&rsquo;re drawing from to create something on your
own. That&rsquo;s why it&rsquo;s disconcerting, that&rsquo;s why
it&rsquo;s called a problem.

Having taken it away &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; from its source and place it elsewhere. As a result, you do not
see the PROBLEM.

&hellip; you do not see the PROBLEM.
</div>

Now is that word, &ldquo;problem&rdquo; applied to the situation
that&rsquo;s disconcerting to you or is it addressing the real problem?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As a result, you do not see the PROBLEM.
</div>

When you, from your independence, engage in an act for a specific
result, meaning that when you are functioning as an orphan having
disowned your Father, you do not see that the disconcerting situation
that you&rsquo;re faced with is not the problem. You do not see that the
problem is: That you have insisted upon looking at a little bit of the
Kingdom of Heaven while denying the Father&rsquo;s perspective Who is
Being that little bit of the Kingdom of Heaven and Who is providing the
true experience of it for you His Son or Daughter to have. That&rsquo;s
the problem and that&rsquo;s what you&rsquo;re not seeing.

And as long as you keep addressing that problem out there, as long as
you keep trying to manipulate your definition of the world or a part of
it, you&rsquo;re going to reinforce and keep in place your ignorance and
the suffering that accompanies it. It&rsquo;s that absolute. It&rsquo;s
that simple. And the simple solution is to do exactly the opposite or
I&rsquo;m going to say, do exactly the same thing giving your attention
to the answer to your Father, to the Voice for truth.

I&rsquo;m being very repetitious. I&rsquo;m doing it for a reason,
because I&rsquo;m presenting something utterly simple and it&rsquo;s
very hard for egos to see something very simple. But the divinity of
each one of you listening is hearing what I&rsquo;m saying and is
hearing the Meaning of what I&rsquo;m saying and a sudden shift of
perception is in motion. So let it be monotonous, let me be monotonous
tonight.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Had you not lacked the faith it could be solved, the problem would be
gone.
</div>

In some really quiet moments, if you will contemplate this, you will
realize that from an ego standpoint, you don&rsquo;t really want
problems to be solved, because you&rsquo;re a &ldquo;problem solving
machine!&rdquo; Your function is to solve problems. And you don&rsquo;t
really want to find out that the Father has already made everything
whole and perfect, including you, and there&rsquo;s nothing for you to
solve. There&rsquo;s only the Kingdom of Heaven to experience&mdash;the
fullness of and the joy of and the love that is innately natural to you
and naturally flows into expression as the recognition of what is Real
the way the Father is making It and not the way you have been imagining
it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Had you not lacked the faith it could be solved, the problem would be
gone. And the situation would have been meaningful to you&hellip;
</div>

It&rsquo;s meaningfulness is lost to you when you are listening to the
voice for fear, when you are listening to and committing to your faulty
imagination.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[And] the situation would have been meaningful to you, because the
interference in the way of understanding would have been removed.
</div>

And what&rsquo;s the interference that&rsquo;s in the way of
understanding? It&rsquo;s your decision not to inquire where the answer
is awaiting you and insisting upon inquiring where the answer does not
exist. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To remove the problem elsewhere is to KEEP it. For you remove yourself
FROM it, and make it unsolvable.
</div>

&ldquo;But Father, I&rsquo;d rather do it myself.&rdquo; You see? You
remove yourself from it with great pride and enthusiasm and
anticipation.

Now during this coming week I invite all of you to reread and reconsider
this section on Practical Forgiveness. It&rsquo;s marvelous. It&rsquo;s
a turning point. It&rsquo;s a pivot point. An easy one, that I want you
all to enjoy it and let it move you.

I love you all. And I look forward to being with you next time.

[^1]: T17.6 Practical Forgiveness

