---
title: Sep 17, 2011
ref: "T17.7 The Need for Faith"
alink: "/acim/text/17/chap1707/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

A new section:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*The Need for Faith*[^1]
</div>

Faith is a word that has been discussed a lot over the eons. Everyone
has a fairly good idea, they think, of what the word means. But
we&rsquo;re talking about a very specific definition of faith, a very
specific meaning of faith.

You know the phrase, &ldquo;Being painted into a corner?&rdquo; In a
way, the Course or any truly spiritual system if it is truly valuable,
paints its followers into a corner&mdash;moves everyone into a place
where there are no alternatives, nothing is wishy-washy. You&rsquo;re
faced with one choice.

To those who like options, it seems unfair,
unreasonable&mdash;justification for abandoning the spiritual system,
whatever it might have been. Oh, no, it&rsquo;s nice to have the time to
study the various options, and delay the reason for having been painted
into the corner &hellip; delay Awakening.

Now, faith and faithlessness are inseparable from the act and state of
joining with your Father&mdash;reuniting with your Father, taking a
stand of union in which you acknowledge and accept the fact fully that
you are the holy Son or Daughter of God and not the piss-ant mortal
you&rsquo;ve claimed you were, you thought you were, you were taught you
were and which you&rsquo;ve been committed to for indefinite periods of
time.

Faith and faithlessness are inseparable from the two-step: The practice
of the holy instant and the act of divorce that everyone has engaged
in&mdash;divorce from your Father.  It&rsquo;s that simple. It&rsquo;s
that black and white.

And so, when we&rsquo;re talking about the need for faith here,
we&rsquo;re very specifically talking about the need for abandoning
independence. You might not have thought of that. It&rsquo;s the act of
repairing a rift that you tried to imagine you made when you
couldn&rsquo;t. It&rsquo;s the re-uniting of what never could have been
separated. You might not have thought of it that way either.

Faith is where you undo what put you in the realm of faithlessness.

Faith is the way you replace the valuing of the idea of emancipation
from That which you have to cooperate with, That which you are a part
of, That which you must fit in with. You see?

Faith is the way you undo the act of independence&mdash;of claiming
independence and behaving as though you have succeeded.

Faithlessness is the state you find yourself in when you have denied
that which justifies faith &hellip; when you have denied that which
justifies the, I&rsquo;m going to say, dullness of being whole in place
of the excitement of being part, the excitement of being ungrounded, the
excitement of being disconnected from stability.

Faithlessness is the state of being called, &ldquo;orphanhood.&rdquo;
Faithlessness is the state of being unconscious of what&rsquo;s Real,
unconscious of truth and enjoying the challenging task of bringing truth
about&mdash;of creating reality that is comfortable and safe, while
insisting upon staying in the vulnerable unsafe position of being
disconnected from your Source.

Joined equals faith. Divorced&mdash;un-joined&mdash;equals
faithlessness.

In the un-joined place the only thing you can have faith in is yourself.
And you do stay in that place because you find that stimulating and
satisfying. But nevertheless, all the time that you&rsquo;re living your
life un-joined with your Source and unconscious of who you Are, as that
which can be joined with a Source that makes you Real, you are in a
constant state of faithlessness.

Important to understand. Important to contemplate what I&rsquo;m saying
because it might not be easy to fully grasp it and let yourself into it.
But if this is not understood, then we will continue to need a section
in this book called, *The Need for Faith*.

It&rsquo;s time to move beyond the need for faith. It&rsquo;s time to
move beyond the need to practice the two-step. It&rsquo;s time to move
beyond the need to engage in the holy instant. The holy instant is a
transitionary point&mdash;that place where, once you have moved over it,
you know who you Are. There is no doubt. Faith is not called for.
Because you understand from the tips of the toes of your Being who you
Are and what everything Is, and you know you&rsquo;ve come Home into
your right Mind.

Now, we talked last time about the fact that the correction of a problem
is not the result of manipulating things but is a matter of coming back
into that point in your mind where you said, &ldquo;Father I&rsquo;d
rather do it myself.&rdquo; &ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;d rather see it my
way.&rdquo; &ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;d rather say what things mean.&rdquo;
And at that point creating an illusion&mdash;a delusion&mdash;which you
were willing to shift your attention and commitment and belief to.

Therefore, the correction of a problem is never with the results of that
decision.  The correction of a problem is always coming back to that
place where you said, &ldquo;Father I would rather do it myself.&rdquo;
&ldquo;Father, I would rather give the definitions to everything&rdquo;
and in that spot abandon your commitment to your best judgments because
the abandonment of your Father was what caused the problem, not all of
the results of the abandonment.

That&rsquo;s what makes it simple. Either you are joined or you are
un-joined. Either you are practicing faith or you&rsquo;re practicing
faithlessness. It doesn&rsquo;t matter what the faith is in. It
doesn&rsquo;t matter what the faithlessness is in. It matters whether
you&rsquo;re practicing faithlessness or faith. It matters whether
you&rsquo;re insisting on living in the middle of the Kingdom of Heaven,
as though it&rsquo;s a material world and universe, as a thing&mdash;an
object that came into existence by happenstance.

From there, your experience of your divine being and of the Kingdom of
Heaven will be experienced as exactly the opposite. And as you know, you
tend to try to fix up the distresses and the conflicts in the
result&mdash;in this material world and universe&mdash;when what&rsquo;s
called for &hellip; again, and this is part of being clear about faith
and faithlessness &hellip; you must come back to the place in you where
you made that choice for faithlessness, for independent authority and
all the excitement and all of the power and all of the prestige that you
think will come from it and you abandon faithlessness. You abandon the
conscious intent to insist on being an independent agent. That&rsquo;s
what abandoning faithlessness means. And if that&rsquo;s clear to you,
you will move forward in your Awakening much faster.

Why? Because you won&rsquo;t spend your time trying to fix things up and
move objects around into the place where they are not threatening. You
will go to that place where you made the mistake in your mind. And you
will abandon the attitude and the act of faithlessness. And you will
exchange it for faith. Faith, which is you shutting up&mdash;you in the
silence reaching beyond your faithlessness, reaching beyond all of your
best thinking, reaching into Something that doesn&rsquo;t seem as though
it&rsquo;s truly there, which requires faith on your part, and you say,
&ldquo;Father, Holy Spirit &hellip;&rdquo; or you know, &ldquo;That
which knows the truth, please share with me what the truth is. I will be
quiet and I will listen without the interference of my faithlessness
(meaning my own best thinking) and I will lean into with faith, with
willingness, That which created me, That which loves me, That which
holds nothing back of what It is from me&mdash;His expression&mdash;and
I will stay in this state of quiet inquisitiveness and willingness to
hear until I hear, until I learn the truth.&rdquo; That&rsquo;s faith.

But more than that, when you are willing to stay in that place and not
take over again&mdash;not take charge again&mdash;and the truth is
revealed to you, it changes entirely the way you experience what you had
been calling the material world and universe and mortals. It will change
the way you&rsquo;re seeing everything.

And where you had been seeing problems will not be problems because you
will know the truth. And your utter peace in the presence of what had
been called a material world and universe, which you&rsquo;re able to be
peaceful in because it&rsquo;s clear to you it&rsquo;s the Kingdom of
Heaven, constitutes the replacement of faith, constitutes that which
means you will never be called upon to practice faith again, because
faithlessness is simply gone without any hard learning lessons.
It&rsquo;s gone! A gentle shift of perception that changes everything
causes what had been misunderstood before to vanish, leaving you nothing
to work your way through or spiritualize your mind about.

One could say that healing will have occurred. Those who are the
beneficiary of the clarity that has come to you by virtue of your
practicing faith rather than faithlessness, will say a miracle has
happened&mdash;that which they weren&rsquo;t expecting will occur and it
will cause their curiosity to blossom, to emerge, accompanied by a
confidence and a positive expectation that they can&rsquo;t really
justify, but everything that&rsquo;s catching their attention
manifesting healing will bring that confidence into play where they
would ordinarily have been frightened.

Now, let&rsquo;s go into the book.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is no problem in any situation that faith will not solve.
</div>

Oh, I&rsquo;m sure, aside from what I&rsquo;ve just shared, that every
one of you can look at your relationships or your life and see that
there are situations that faith will not solve, situations that no
matter how much positive thinking you use and how consistently you
expect the best of your lover or your neighbor or your friend,
it&rsquo;s not going to make any difference. Faith in your fellowman
won&rsquo;t do anything. That&rsquo;s the fear. That&rsquo;s the
confidence.

But the way you&rsquo;re using the word, &ldquo;faith&rdquo; causes you
to feel that way. It justifies it. Because you&rsquo;re saying,
&ldquo;No matter how much faith I have, no matter how much faith I
generate from this orphan that I think I am, it&rsquo;s going to be
impossible to change anything.&rdquo; And you&rsquo;re right. Because
we&rsquo;re not talking about faith that you muster up within yourself
and bring forth and bless your world with and coerce your Brothers and
Sisters with. That&rsquo;s not the faith that will solve any problem.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is no problem in any situation that &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your engaging in the holy instant &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; will not solve.
</div>

That your engaging in the abandonment of your independence and saying,
&ldquo;Father, what is the truth here? Holy Spirit, give me the
experience of the Kingdom of Heaven and my holy Brother as they
Are&mdash;as they truly Are.&rdquo; And then refrain from acting,
refrain from taking steps that don&rsquo;t arise out of an influx of
inspiration of truth that comes to you as a result of your asking and
refraining from acting until you get the answer.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is no problem in any situation that &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that kind of &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; faith will not solve.
</div>

You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is no shift in any aspect of the problem but will make solution
impossible.
</div>

There is no shift, there is no manipulation of individuals that you can
make from your faithlessness&mdash;from your place of independence, from
your personal authority.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is no shift in any aspect of the problem &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in any manipulations you engage in &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; but will make solution impossible.
</div>

Why? Because you&rsquo;re doing it from a place of powerlessness.
You&rsquo;re doing it from a place of faith-less-ness. You&rsquo;re
doing it from a place where you&rsquo;re unplugged from your Source, the
power of which moving through you, heals&mdash;does solve problems. You
see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For if you shift part of the problem elsewhere&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning where? Meaning elsewhere from the place where you made
the mistake, the place where you made the choice between the teachers
you were going to listen to. If you shift part of the problem
elsewhere&mdash;from that key point&mdash;and you shift it to the way
things look and the way your Brothers and Sisters look, through your
independent perspective, the solution will always be impossible. Because
it will keep you bound. And it will keep you bound because you&rsquo;re
looking at the wrong place. You&rsquo;re looking at the place where the
problem can&rsquo;t be solved because it&rsquo;s not the place where the
problem was created, which was in your decision as to which of the two
teachers you were going to listen to. And you made the wrong choice.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For if you shift part of the problem elsewhere, the meaning of the
problem MUST be lost&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; not only that&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the meaning of the problem MUST be lost, and the solution to
the problem is inherent in its meaning.
</div>

What is the meaning of the problem? It&rsquo;s not what the bastard over
there did to the bitch over there, who then came down on you and ruined
your life. No. The meaning of the problem is: &ldquo;Before I saw the
bitch and the bastard, I made a choice as to what lens I was going to
look at them through, what teacher and what teaching I was going to
employ in perceiving them.&rdquo; You see?

The meaning of the problem lies in that choice. And if you don&rsquo;t
recognize that the meaning of the problem is there, you will try to
protect yourself against the bitch and the bastard instead of forgiving
the world you&rsquo;re seeing by choosing not to look at it all by
yourself any longer. In other words, engaging in faith. Is this
beginning to make simple clear sense?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Is it not possible that all your problems HAVE been solved, but you have
removed yourself from the solution?
</div>

You see? Is it not possible that everything right now is the Kingdom of
Heaven, and everyone are the Sons and Daughters of God, and every part
of Creation beautifully illuminates all that is true about God? Is it
not possible that because everything already is the Kingdom of Heaven
and it never changed, all your problems have been solved? You see?
They&rsquo;ve been solved because they never became what you began to
see them as when you chose to look at them through your faithlessness,
which means your isolation and barren disconnection from your
Source&mdash;from That which gives your Being Meaning.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Is it not possible that all your problems HAVE been solved&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; because they&rsquo;re not Real?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; but you have removed yourself from the solution?
</div>

You removed yourself from the act of faith, you removed yourself from
the connection with That which validates and illuminates the divine
meaning of everything that It Created. You removed yourself &hellip;
&ldquo;But Father, I&rsquo;d rather do it myself! But Father, I&rsquo;d
rather do it my way! But Father, I&rsquo;d rather define what everything
is and by damn it I&rsquo;m going to!&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Is it not possible that all your problems HAVE been solved, but you have
removed yourself from the solution? Yet faith must be where something
has been done, and where you SEE it done.

&hellip; faith must be where something has been done&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; faith must be where the something that you did that separated
you from your Father has been done and where you see it done. You will
see it done when you reverse the choice&mdash;the choice you made for
the teacher that teaches illusion. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
A situation is a relationship&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; there we come back to that &hellip; involvement that you
can&rsquo;t get away from. All of the Brotherhood that constitutes the
wholeness of what God is Being, all of the Brotherhood that fits
together, all of the Brotherhood that finds no need to gain control over
anything else, no need to manipulate, no need to exercise power for
self-satisfaction, self-aggrandizement and making oneself important.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
A situation is a relationship, being the joining of thoughts. If
problems are perceived&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you know &hellip; the bitch and the bastard.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If problems are perceived, it is because the thoughts are judged to be
in conflict. But if the goal is truth, this is impossible. Some idea of
bodies must have entered, for minds cannot attack.
</div>

&ldquo;Oh-h, yeah right! My attention became involved with bodies. All I
can think about are bodies. All I see all day long are bodies. You know
&hellip; of course, yes &hellip; my problem is because I&rsquo;m seeing
bodies.&rdquo; Nobody thinks like that. And as a result it&rsquo;s hard
to understand what it means to say:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Some idea of bodies must have entered&hellip;
</div>

No. The way it works is: That you look at God&rsquo;s
Creations&mdash;and I&rsquo;m speaking specifically here about sentient
Beings&mdash;and you look at your Brothers and Sisters and you
don&rsquo;t &hellip; you know, generally think of them as bodies. But
you do think of them as minds&mdash;minds that have been conditioned by
their life &hellip; conditioned by their parents, conditioned by their
neighborhoods, conditioned by their teachers. And you see them as
response mechanisms, who have been conditioned to behave in particular
ways. And the behavior is engaged in by bodies. So you don&rsquo;t think
of everyone as bodies but you think of them as minds that are
conditioned to behave in a particular way that is predictable and
dependable and allow you to come to stable ongoing conclusions about
them&mdash;allowing you to behave in a way that consistently keeps a
certain amount of equilibrium present in a relationship.

So where does such an assessment arise from? Where does such an
assessment about your fellowman come from? Well, if you joined with the
Father, such assessments would not even occur to you. They would be
nonexistent and completely unavailable.

These assessments of your Brothers and Sisters arise from the un-joined
place, they arise from the state of mind you find yourself in when you
have abandoned your Source and have been immediately faced with fear and
guilt. Suddenly your invulnerable existence has been replaced with
vulnerability and justification for fear and justification for defense
against what? Minds conditioned through fear and guilt to behave in
erratic and undependable ways that require defense to be brought into
play. And you don&rsquo;t think of them as bodies. But indeed,
&ldquo;Joe over there, who isn&rsquo;t particularly handsome and
isn&rsquo;t particularly intelligent is bound to behave in ways that I
should be on guard against.&rdquo; You see &hellip; you see?

And so in that way the thought of bodies has come into the picture.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Some idea of bodies must have entered, for minds cannot attack.
</div>

Now the interesting thing is, that when you engage in the holy instant
and the peace of God floods you and brings you into a state of peace,
it&rsquo;s impossible for you &hellip; it&rsquo;s not only impossible
for you to see your neighbor as threatening, it doesn&rsquo;t occur to
you to use your mind in a way that would see that.

There&rsquo;s no sense of bodies. There&rsquo;s not even any sense of
conditioned minds and conditioned nervous systems. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The thought of bodies is the sign of faithlessness&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; got it?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The thought of bodies is the sign of &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; having said: &ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;d rather see it my way.
Father, I want a divorce. Father, I am emancipating myself from You and
moving into a substantial state of independence, which I&rsquo;m going
to be in charge of.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The thought of bodies is the sign &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that you got a divorce from your Father. And that&rsquo;s
called faithlessness.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The thought of bodies &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and the key word there is &ldquo;thought&rdquo; not
&ldquo;bodies.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The thought of bodies is the sign of faithlessness, for bodies cannot
solve anything.
</div>

But once you&rsquo;ve made your assessment of this conditioned mind and
a nervous system that follows that mind&mdash;meaning a body
that&rsquo;s going to behave according to that mind&mdash;that&rsquo;s
not going to solve anything. And yet, the fact is that all of
you&mdash;most all of you, for a good part of your day&mdash;go through
the day manipulating your Brothers because that is the way you see them
and that is the way you think you must protect yourself. And in doing
that, you have managed to stay away from the place where the wrong
choice of teachers occurred, and therefore, you&rsquo;re not in the
place where it&rsquo;s obvious that there&rsquo;s only one thing to do
and that is, turn to the other Teacher.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The thought of bodies is the sign of faithlessness, for bodies cannot
solve anything. And it is their intrusion on the relationship&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what &hellip; their intrusion? Don&rsquo;t get hung up on the
word &ldquo;bodies.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The thought of bodies is the sign of faithlessness&hellip;

And it is their intrusion &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the thoughts of bodies &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; it is their intrusion on the relationship, an error in your
thoughts ABOUT the situation, which then becomes the justification for
your lack of faith.
</div>

It&rsquo;s the justification for staying firmly in the orphan mindset,
in the place where self-protection must be engaged in and you remain
lost. You&rsquo;re not at the place where healing can occur.

Now: 

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You WILL make this error&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and you&rsquo;re all making the error everyday right now.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You WILL make this error, but be not at all concerned with that.
</div>

[chuckling] After all, the only one who would be concerned about it is
the orphan engaged in being independent and being frightened by the
experience which causes him to bring into play further self-protection
rather than remembering [snaps fingers] &ldquo;Ah, I need to go back to
the place where I made the wrong choice and not engage in correcting the
details of what I&rsquo;m experiencing as a result of that wrong
choice.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You WILL make this error, but be not at all concerned with that. The
error does not matter. Faithlessness brought to faith &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; interesting what that now means. Faithlessness &hellip; the
independent stance brought to a place in one&rsquo;s attitude where one
is willing to reach beyond self-governance and reach out to and join
with Something beyond it, that&rsquo;s:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Faithlessness brought to faith &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; will never interfere with truth. But faithlessness used
AGAINST truth will always destroy faith.
</div>

In other words, in your independent orphan mode, acting purposely to
avoid the experience of truth which would come from joining, refusing to
join because there is an insistence upon ongoing independence &hellip;
that will always destroy faith. Not confidence you have in the good that
another can do, it will destroy the faith that is the act of joining,
the act of undoing the mistake of choosing for the wrong teacher.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you lack faith, ask that it be restored where it was LOST&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and that is why what we&rsquo;re talking about tonight is so
important. And it&rsquo;s why any spiritual system of thought or
teaching must bring everyone to this place where you&rsquo;re painted
into the corner and there are no choices anymore except which teacher
are you going to choose and giving you the opportunity to make the right
choice this time and be done with illusion. Be done with
misunderstanding. Be done with insanity.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you lack faith, ask that it be restored where it was LOST&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; which is again, monotonously &hellip; the place where you made
the choice for the wrong teacher within you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and seek not to have it made up to you elsewhere, as if you had
been unjustly deprived of it.
</div>

You won&rsquo;t have the experience of having been unjustly deprived of
it when you have been in-filled with the understanding of truth. And it
simply won&rsquo;t be any part of your experience&mdash;your mental
makeup&mdash;to see a call for justice, because you will see that
nothing that you ever thought you were suffering from was Real. It was
only the effect of having made a wrong choice, having experienced
conflict as a result, and then not addressing the difficulty where the
correction could occur, which was in the choice for teachers.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Only what YOU have not given can be lacking in ANY situation.
</div>

Once again, we&rsquo;re at this &ldquo;painted into the corner&rdquo;
simplicity. The only thing under any circumstance that can be lacking in
any situation which is something that you have not given, was the right
choice&mdash;the choice for the right Teacher.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Only what YOU have not given can be lacking in ANY situation.
</div>

&ldquo;Oh-h, you didn&rsquo;t give enough love to him. Oh-h, you
didn&rsquo;t have enough patience with her. That&rsquo;s what was
lacking. If you had given that, there wouldn&rsquo;t be a
problem.&rdquo; No!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Only what YOU have not given can be lacking in ANY situation.
</div>

And the only thing that you can withhold in any way, shape or form, is
one thing: Your willingness to acknowledge your Source. Your willingness
to acknowledge your Father/Mother, That which gives you definition, That
which amounts to a Birthright that you&rsquo;re not responsible for,
that can&rsquo;t be taken away. And even though you can cover It up and
become unconscious of It, you cannot alter It and It will forever remain
in you, to stumble over and have the surprise of discovering &hellip; or
which you can consciously choose for and have the pleasure of being
transformed by.

The choice for the holy instant is the choice for faith. The choice for
independence is the choice for faithlessness.

Simple. Profound. Embracing It and allowing for It to be true is the way
you Wake up.

Which teacher are you going to insist upon listening to?

I love you all. Have fun with this. And I look forward to being with you
next time.

[^1]: T17.7 The Need for Faith

