---
title: Sep 24, 2011
ref: "T17.7 The Need for Faith"
alink: "/acim/text/17/chap1707/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

We ended up last time with this sentence:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Only what YOU have not given can be lacking in ANY situation.[^1]
</div>

That&rsquo;s sort of a heavy trip to lay on you. It makes it sound as
though everything depends on you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Only what YOU have not given can be lacking in ANY situation.
</div>

Well, we&rsquo;ve got to remember, there&rsquo;s only one thing you can
give. There&rsquo;s something you can withhold, but there&rsquo;s only
one thing you can give. The one thing you can give is your willingness
to abandon your independence and join with your Source&mdash;join with
the Father&mdash;join with that which defines you by virtue of the
Birthright It/He has established in you.

That&rsquo;s the only thing you can give in any situation. And the only
thing you can withhold is the joining.

You are in a dream at the moment. You are in the middle of the Kingdom
of Heaven misperceiving It&mdash;frightening yourselves with your
definitions of It&mdash;and the conclusions you have come to about It.

Your choice to see It as it is not, is faithlessness as we
discussed&mdash;your willingness to abandon your authorship and your
authority to author definitions of the world and universe.

I&rsquo;m sorry, this is me, Paul, I lost it.

&hellip; your abandonment of your authority, your abandonment of the
apparent capacity to authorize things is the abandonment of
faithlessness.

Again, in the book:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Only what YOU have not given can be lacking in ANY situation.
</div>

Doesn&rsquo;t matter what anyone else is or isn&rsquo;t doing. It
doesn&rsquo;t matter what the universe is doing or not doing, because I
promise you, that as a long as you have established yourself as an
independent author of things and you are giving definition to
everything, you are in a state of faithlessness. And you cannot help but
see your fellowman and the universe doing or not doing things, being or
not being things through the lens of your own insanity.

This is what you must understand.

As an independent author, as an orphan&mdash;that which has no
Father/Mother, no Source&mdash;you will see everything and experience
yourself in an absolutely distorted way. You will not be able to see
everything grounded in anything&mdash;meaning a Source, Something
eternally valid.

And so as long as you are dealing with your fellowman or as long as you
are dealing with your world from the independent orphan standpoint, you
are not giving yourself the opportunity to see everything as it Is. You
are withholding that which will allow you to see clearly. It&rsquo;s
that black and white. And it&rsquo;s that simple.

As a result, when you give the one thing that you&rsquo;ve withheld,
when you give the only thing that you&rsquo;re able to give, which is an
invitation to your Father and an acknowledgement of your Father as your
Father, and the willingness to accept the Birthright that belongs to you
because of this Father you&rsquo;re acknowledging as your Father, you
will begin to see everything differently, whether the world had been up
to mischief, whether your fellowman had been up to mischief, whether it
had been destructive or constructive, you will bring the one thing you
are able to give. And it&rsquo;s the one thing that has caused you to be
unable to see the world and your fellowman clearly, correctly, and
thereby in a manner that allowed you to have no other thing to share
except love &hellip; and an acknowledgement of the absolute grounded
worth and value of every part of the universe and every single one of
your Brethren.

&ldquo;Well,&rdquo; you say, &ldquo;Raj you&rsquo;ve told me before that
you can&rsquo;t force people to change. So, you know, how can it all be
up to me? How can it be, that only what I have not given can be lacking
in any situation? And you know, be real with me Raj &hellip;
okay?&rdquo;

Well you know what? You cannot choose to do the two-step, you cannot
choose to hesitate, become still and enquire of your Father,
&ldquo;What&rsquo;s the truth here?&rdquo; and practice the holy instant
for the purpose of changing your world and your fellowman.

If that were possible, then you would be caught in an unavoidable
recognition of a great power that resides in you and it would be
impossible for you to be put in a position of having to yield authority,
of having to become humble, of having to have a purpose that isn&rsquo;t
self-serving as you move forward in your Awakening.

If there is any element of self-serving, if there&rsquo;s any
self-serving aspect in the process of Awakening,
Awakening will not happen!

So, in a way you could say that the one thing that you have not given is
the one thing that makes you feel like there&rsquo;s a demand to give
something. The one thing that you have not given is causing you to have
problems that force you to find solutions which bring you to the point
ultimately of finding out that the problem is that there&rsquo;s
something you haven&rsquo;t given. And the answer is that you&rsquo;re
called upon to give it.

You&rsquo;re called upon to return to your sanity by doing the only
thing that works. And that is, again, so simple &hellip; abandon your
independence. Abandon your apparently self-authorizing authority.
Abandon your attempts to be in charge. Let go of control and do it as a
foundation for saying, &ldquo;Father, what is the truth here? Father,
what is Your Perspective?&rdquo; because you&rsquo;ve been told that
your Father&rsquo;s Perspective is established in you as your
perspective. And your letting yourself experience it is the way your
sanity returns to you.

Now, anywhere in there, did I say sanity returns to your Brother? Did I
say that order returns to your universe?  No I didn&rsquo;t. But I will
tell you that will happen. And if it doesn&rsquo;t happen
instantaneously, you will be providing the environment in which your
Brother or Sister can more easily yield as you have.

The thing is, that when you abandon your partnership in the orphanage,
in the house of orphans, or the senate made up of orphans, or the
federation of orphans (whatever you want to call it)&mdash;the community
and the organization of orphans in the orphan mindset&mdash;when you
abandon that, you withdraw your energy from it and it&rsquo;s more
difficult for all of the rest in the federation or the senate or the
house of orphans to maintain their orphanhood.

Now, that isn&rsquo;t because you&rsquo;re forcing them, it&rsquo;s
because you&rsquo;re not enforcing an artificial concept of
togetherness. Okay?

So:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Only what YOU have not given can be lacking in ANY situation.
</div>

And you only have one thing you can withhold and not give. And that is
your union with your Father, your devotion to and obedience to the Holy
Spirit&mdash;which is nothing more than your right Mind. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Only what YOU have not given can be lacking in ANY situation.
</div>

That doesn&rsquo;t mean that you&rsquo;ve not given something like the
best &ldquo;con job&rdquo; in the world or the best and most sly
manipulation of a Brother&rsquo;s mind or a Sister&rsquo;s mind so as to
bring about something good. But the something good came about because
you were so exquisitely perfect in doing this subtle sly manipulation
that went right by them &hellip; they didn&rsquo;t notice it &hellip;
they took the bait and wow! They had an &ldquo;ah-ha!&rdquo;

Wait a minute? No. That&rsquo;s not what it&rsquo;s talking about when
it says:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Only what YOU have not given can be lacking in ANY situation.
</div>

Because what I just described is what you&rsquo;ve been giving all
along. It&rsquo;s the way you operate right now at the moment. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Only what YOU have not given can be lacking in ANY situation.
</div>

And like I said, the only thing that you&rsquo;ve withheld from any
situation is your presence in it joined with your Father.  Your presence
in it saying, (not to it) &ldquo;Father, what is the truth here in this
situation? I want to join with You and in the immediacy and movement of
that joining, I want to behave with complete compliance to Your
Perspective and &ldquo;the way things work&rdquo; as a result of Your
authorship as Creator.&rdquo; You See? That&rsquo;s what you&rsquo;re
not bringing. And that&rsquo;s the only thing you can bring.

Okay, I&rsquo;m going to read it again:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Only what YOU have not given can be lacking in ANY situation. But
remember this; the goal of holiness was set for your
relationship&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; now why do you suppose that&rsquo;s there? Because it&rsquo;s
very easy to think that the goal of holiness was set for you. The goal
of holiness was set for you to benefit by and for you to Wake up as a
result of &hellip; for you to Ascend as I did &hellip; be special as
though what I did was special, and as though what I did was to say
something about me, when it wasn&rsquo;t. It was a Gift that said,
&ldquo;You&rsquo;re no more bound than I am. Take hold of your
freedom.&rdquo; I said, &ldquo;If you have seen me, you have seen the
Father.&rdquo;[^2] That means, if someone has seen you they have seen the
Father. I know when I look at you that I see the Father.

But as a general rule, you don&rsquo;t look at your Brothers and Sisters
and see the Father. You see something else. You see your best judgments
or your most crafty judgments, your most sly judgments&mdash;whatever
judgments you can apply to another to best be able to manipulate them to
get them to build you up, to make you great, to get their mutual
agreement and to get them to vote for you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
But remember this; the goal of holiness was &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; not set for you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; remember this; the goal of holiness was set for your
relationship&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that means you and your Brother. What you would call a win-win
situation where you both manage to yield with faith, in faith, by
joining in the holy instant and being infilled, not by each
other&rsquo;s crafty sly incredible capacity but rather because you were
filled with the influx of the Father&rsquo;s Perspective &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; remember this; the goal of holiness was set for your
relationship&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you&rsquo;re just not going to be able to do this by yourself.
It isn&rsquo;t meant for you to do this by yourself. It&rsquo;s about
looking in your Brother&rsquo;s eyes&mdash;not in the mirror at
yours&mdash;but looking in your Brother&rsquo;s eyes and remembering
God.

It &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; was set for your relationship&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and then here&rsquo;s the next thing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and NOT by you.
</div>

The goal is there. It was established for your relationship, but it was
not established by you. While you&rsquo;re practicing faithlessness,
while you&rsquo;re coming from the place of independence, the goal is
set by you. And of course, everyone else&rsquo;s goal is set by them.
And that means that you are the brunt of the goals that other people
have set for you based on their fear and guilt and their sense of
worthlessness that causes them to need you to bolster them up which
gives them the difficult task of convincing you that they&rsquo;re worth
it.

So you see this is daily life, isn&rsquo;t it. And it hasn&rsquo;t
caused Awakening, has it. But Awakening is your Birthright. And
Awakening is what we&rsquo;re talking about. And so you need to bring to
the situation what you haven&rsquo;t been bringing.

So one of the things you&rsquo;re going to have to bring that you
haven&rsquo;t been bringing is a willingness to abide by rules that you
didn&rsquo;t make up, by goals that you didn&rsquo;t create which
naturally and easily happens when you humble yourself and you say,
&ldquo;Father, not my will be done, but Thy Will be done &hellip; Thy
Will be done.&rdquo; You&rsquo;re not saying, &ldquo;Thy Will be done
[chuckles] on Joe or Mary &hellip; yeah, get &lsquo;em, Thy Will be
done&hellip;&rdquo; No. It means, &ldquo;Thy Will be done in me. Thy
Will be done so that my will becomes willingness to let Your Will govern
me and provide me with the Perspective that causes me to be able to
honor Your Will and which is so inspiring to me that Your Will
spontaneously flows from me because it is so wonderful I can&rsquo;t
withhold it. That&rsquo;s what I want. That&rsquo;s what I haven&rsquo;t
been bringing to the situation&mdash;to any situation here in the
orphanage. And that&rsquo;s what I want to bring to the situation
now.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You did not set it &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the goal &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; because holiness cannot be seen EXCEPT through faith&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; now remember, we talked about the difference between faith and
faithlessness. Faith is you in the act of truly saying, &ldquo;Father,
what is the truth here?&rdquo; and joining with your Father. That is
faith. To say, &ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;d rather do it my own way. Father,
I&rsquo;d rather define everything myself.&rdquo; and imagining that
you&rsquo;re being from that framework, that&rsquo;s the conscious
practice of faithlessness.

So, you did not set the goal for your relationship.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You did not set it because holiness cannot be seen EXCEPT through
faith&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that simply means holiness cannot be seen EXCEPT through
joining.

Are you beginning to see how simple it is? It&rsquo;s black or white.
It&rsquo;s this or that. It&rsquo;s on or off. It&rsquo;s actual or
non-existent.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You did not set it because holiness cannot be seen EXCEPT through faith,
and your relationship was not holy &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your relationship with everything &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; was not holy BECAUSE your faith in one another was so limited
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your faith in one another.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your faith &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; each of you &hellip; your faith in each other, like from you to
the other one in the room &hellip; you know, in the little house on the
street, in the city, in the state, in the country, on the planet
&hellip; you know, it&rsquo;s really miniscule this little link between
you and your Brother because your faith in your Brother is only coming
from your best assessments, your best judgments, your favorite theories
and so on.

So your faith in one another unjoined with the Father, Whose Presence in
you illuminates faith for what it actually is and inspires you with it
enough that you just behave with faith, not as a tool you&rsquo;re using
and applying to your Brother or Sister, but as a behavior of the
presence of Love that does what it does because of what it Is and not
because of what it can accomplish.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You did not set it &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the goal &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; because holiness cannot be seen EXCEPT through faith&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; through being joined &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and your relationship was not holy BECAUSE your faith in one
another was so limited and little.
</div>

It wasn&rsquo;t the result of being joined with your Creator, which
revealed your divinity to you by revealing your Brother&rsquo;s or
Sister&rsquo;s divinity to you. That kind of understanding and
experience of the meaning of everything and of your Brothers and Sisters
with you &hellip; that&rsquo;s what it&rsquo;s all about. That&rsquo;s
being in the state of faith and it&rsquo;s the absence of faithlessness.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your faith must grow to meet the goal that has been set.
</div>

What goal? The goal that wasn&rsquo;t set by you, the goal that&rsquo;s
the ultimate, you might say, the infinite perspective about your
Brother, which automatically includes you. You can&rsquo;t be left out
of that awareness.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The goal's reality will call this forth&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; I&rsquo;m going to backup one sentence:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your faith must grow to meet the goal that has been set.
</div>

The purpose is to meet the goal.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The goal's reality will call this forth&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; not you. Nothing that you do will call it forth. But by your
not claiming an independent existence, separate and apart from the way
everything actually works, your faith will grow, it will enlarge because
it&mdash;the goal that was set from the beginning&mdash;will bring it
forth, will call it forth.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The goal's reality &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the one you didn&rsquo;t create and that you didn&rsquo;t setup
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; will call this forth, for you will see &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in the very core of your Being and you will feel it &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you will see that peace and faith will not come separately.
</div>

One begets the other and without embracing them both you will have
neither.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What situation CAN you be in without faith, and remain faithful to each
other?
</div>

You know the answer to that. The answer to that is everyday life.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What situation CAN you be in without faith&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that means without being joined. That means:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What situation CAN you be in &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in the orphanage &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and remain faithful to each other?
</div>

You can&rsquo;t! Because in the environment, in the arena of
faithlessness of being un-joined, you are in, first of all, a frame of
mind&mdash;the boundaries of which you could say are fear and
guilt&mdash;and everything you perceive is misperceived, is not seen for
what it Is. And because you have lost your groundedness in your Source
because you&rsquo;re enjoying this free fall of independence, you find
everything dangerous, you find existence to be a call for ongoing
defense.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What situation CAN you be in without faith, and remain faithful to each
other?
</div>

You can&rsquo;t remain faithful to each other because you are busy
defending yourself, protecting yourself against each other. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Every situation in which you find yourself is but a means to meet the
purpose set for your relationship.
</div>

The real purpose.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Every situation in &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the middle of the Kingdom of Heaven where you are, but which
you&rsquo;re not seeing as the Kingdom of Heaven &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is but a means to meet the purpose set for your relationship.
</div>

The Kingdom of Heaven &hellip; every aspect of the Kingdom of Heaven, of
Reality &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is but a means to meet the purpose set for your relationship.
</div>

For all relationships. It&rsquo;s the goal of holiness. It&rsquo;s the
goal of truth. It&rsquo;s the goal of peace that&rsquo;s inseparable
from yielding to the Father&rsquo;s Perspective, because you want that
more than your best judgments and your most familiar habits of behavior
and of thought processes.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Every situation in which you find yourself &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and I&rsquo;m adding: In the middle of the Kingdom of Heaven
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is but a means to meet the purpose set for your relationship.
</div>

Set in place by the Father. Set in place by &ldquo;the (capital
&lsquo;W&rsquo;) Way things work.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
See it as something else, and you ARE faithless.
</div>

You see? To see it as something else, you must divorce yourself from
your Father and from His Perspective that He has instilled and
established in you as You. You must abandon It. So:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
See it as something else, and you ARE faithless. Use not your
faithlessness.
</div>

Make a choice. Choose for faith. Just remind yourself:

&ldquo;I don&rsquo;t have to practice faithlessness. I&rsquo;ve always
been free not to. But I got a lot of encouragement to do it. And then I
got a lot of excitement out of doing it. And yes, I created some real
nasty problems for myself. But you know what? I love the feeling of
threat and danger from being in free fall.&rdquo;

Well:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Use not your faithlessness. Let it enter and look upon it calmly, but do
not USE it.
</div>

And oh yes, it will enter, because it&rsquo;s the way you think at the
moment. You don&rsquo;t tend to think holy. You don&rsquo;t tend to
behave as though you&rsquo;re holy. You don&rsquo;t tend to conceive of
yourself that well.

So yes, faithlessness will enter the thoughts, the practices.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Let it enter and look upon it calmly, but do not USE it.
</div>

Just notice it when it happens, like when you&rsquo;re meditating and
you&rsquo;re saying a mantra and then a thought appears, and you forget
about the mantra and then you say, &ldquo;Oh [snaps fingers] yes, I can
do this later,&rdquo; and you return to your mantra. That simple. You
don&rsquo;t have to think the thought at that time.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Faithlessness is the servant of illusion, and wholly faithful to its
master.
</div>

What is faithlessness? Faithlessness is the state of being un-joined
with your Source, consciously ignoring your Father/Mother and
consciously practicing a very imaginative style of living, called
&ldquo;independence&rdquo; and &ldquo;personal power&rdquo; and
&ldquo;personal improvement&rdquo; especially at the expense of others.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Faithlessness is the servant of illusion, and wholly faithful to its
master. Use it, and it will carry you straight to illusions.
</div>

Well, yes&hellip; or keep you in the illusions you&rsquo;re in. And
you&rsquo;ll still continue to see your fellowman as the result of a
sperm and an egg joining. You&rsquo;ll still see them as mental
processes that have been nurtured, or healthy, or have been mistreated
and have been damaged, that causes this organism to behave from memory
in ways that are difficult for everyone else. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Faithlessness is the servant of illusion&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; I just described the illusions&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and wholly faithful to its master. Use it, and it will carry
you straight to illusions. Be tempted not by what it offers you. It
interferes, not with the goal, but with the value of the goal to YOU.
</div>

You see? You can get caught up in concepts, which are senseless, but
seem quite valid and important to you, examples of which abound in
&hellip; well, a number of governments. And it interferes, not with the
goal, but with the value of the goal to you. You can get caught up in
pet theories, pet projects, pet biases. But they won&rsquo;t work. And
in the process of doing it, you stop thinking about what the value of
the goal is for you.

And like the lemmings, you run headlong into the sea just because
somebody else was doing it and it felt good to do it together with them.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Be tempted not by what it offers you. It interferes, not with the goal,
but with the value of the goal to YOU.
</div>

It&rsquo;s like you lose your Soul because you let yourself drop out of
the picture, you let what you value drop out of the picture for the
thrill of the ride, for the thrill of the run.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Accept not the illusion of peace it offers, but look upon its offering
and recognize it IS illusion.
</div>

Now you can remind yourselves throughout the day to remember to join
with your Father. You can set an alarm to go off. When it dings, you
say, &ldquo;Oh, yeah, I&rsquo;m supposed to be joined here and I&rsquo;m
not. Okay, I&rsquo;m going to join.&rdquo; And you go on and awhile
later it dings again and you say, &ldquo;Oh, yes, I&rsquo;m supposed to
be joined. I&rsquo;m going to have to do it again.&rdquo;

Now, that&rsquo;s a good practice. But I want you to pay attention to
the experience when joining happens, because that&rsquo;s where your
divine integrity becomes illuminated to you so that you feel it. I want
you to pay attention to that! Because that will be more impelling than
the ding of the timer, the experience, the feeling of the integrity of
Being and the holiness of you, and therefore, the value of it to you.
That is what will make it easier to persist and need less and less dings
to get you to do it.

You see, overcoming the situation or overcoming your opponent, or
overcoming your Brother, who has seemingly little character or low
morals &hellip; overcoming them&mdash;straightening them out, getting
them to behave seems to promise you peace. Because if you can get them
to behave, if you can truly get them to understand why they don&rsquo;t
need to do it and feel why they won&rsquo;t need to do it, then you will
have less to maintain, you will have less to oversee and coerce into
behavior that will give you peace, because you don&rsquo;t have to
supervise them anymore. You see?

You do that in faithlessness. In faith you don&rsquo;t manipulate your
Brother to give you peace. You don&rsquo;t try to do good to him as a
skill, a personal skill of yours that will make you better. That&rsquo;s
faithlessness. Those are the practices of faithlessness. And they will
keep you busy endlessly, because there&rsquo;s one thing you
haven&rsquo;t given: You haven&rsquo;t given your mind to your Father so
that you might remember Him and thereby your Self and thereby your
Brother as your Brother divinely is.

That&rsquo;s all that&rsquo;s necessary. That&rsquo;s what all this is
about.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Accept not the illusion of peace it offers, but look upon its offering
and recognize it IS illusion.
</div>

So that, that recognition, like the ding of the bell, can cause you to
shift your attention back to your Father. Not so that you can sit in
quiet bliss, unmoved by all the illusions that are going on&mdash;in a
state of blissful peace. No. But so that you might in the vital,
I&rsquo;m going to say, productive active Movement of Being, which God
Is and which you are the witness of, you might engage more fully in Life
&hellip; but from the place of faith &hellip; from the place of being
joined so that your every action, your every feeling, your every
movement communicates the truth.

I invite you to read the transcript or listen to the audio tapes of
tonight&rsquo;s get together or just read the material that we&rsquo;ve
gone through. And don&rsquo;t be discouraged because I haven&rsquo;t
revved you up and given you a challenge that: &ldquo;Go out there and
whip the world with the truth&rdquo; or &ldquo;go out there and do this
or do that and it will make you Wake up [snaps fingers] quickly!&rdquo;

I want you to abide with it quietly, because practicing the two-step,
practicing the holy instant, engaging in it is something that will
&ldquo;work&rdquo; only when willfulness is absent, only when
willingness is present, only when you bring the only thing that was
lacking&mdash;only what you have not given can be lacking in any
situation.

Look at it quietly. Look at it soberly. But look at it. And understand
that none of this is a means to escape life or to escape what&rsquo;s
going on. It&rsquo;s a means of getting past that which causes the
Kingdom of Heaven, which is what is going on, to appear to be unlike the
Kingdom of Heaven&mdash;a place that engrosses you with its awfulness,
with its absurdities as though being caught up in them is more important
than going back to where the mis-step occurred&mdash;that place in you
where you said, &ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;d rather do it my way, I&rsquo;d
rather define things myself&rdquo;&mdash;which is how you move back into
faith.

So please consider it quietly, softly, soberly. Abide with it so that
you might find in you the place of willingness that doesn&rsquo;t
require an enthusiastic pep-talk to revved it up and activate it. Very
important &hellip; a valuable lesson.

I love you all. And I look forward to being with you next time.

[^1]: T17.7 The Need for Faith
[^2]: John:14

