---
title: Oct 1, 2011
ref: "T17.7 The Need for Faith"
alink: "/acim/text/17/chap1707/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

Well, we&rsquo;ve been talking along time, perhaps over a year about the
holy instant&mdash;the two step. The holy instant, the practice of the
holy instant is where you shut up your own thinking&mdash;your own
private thoughts&mdash;and you turn your attention to the Father or the
Holy Spirit to ask, &ldquo;What is the truth here?&rdquo; to step
outside of your best judgments, your best thinking, your best logic and
your supposed capacity to be able to authorize meanings and in making
that request, that invitation to joining with the Father in the silence,
experiencing the influx of the Father&rsquo;s Perspective, either
directly from the Father or through the Holy Spirit whose function it is
to reveal to you the Father&rsquo;s Perspective as yours.

So we&rsquo;ve been talking about joining and being un-joined for a long
time.

Now, we&rsquo;re talking about faith and faithlessness. And it&rsquo;s
bringing into clearer perspective what the holy instant is. It&rsquo;s
bringing into clearer perspective what the difference is between you,
the holy Son of God that you Are, and the you that got a divorce from
your Father and have existed for a very long time as an orphan. So,
we&rsquo;re at a point now where being an orphan or being the holy Son
of God that you truly Are can be seen to be the equivalent of
faithlessness and faith.

You know, we&rsquo;ve used a lot of words, but it&rsquo;s simple. It
boils down to two things: Faith or faithlessness. Faith, we have found
means you being joined with the Father or you being joined with the Holy
Spirit in an act of compliance, of yielding to the Holy Spirit. Why?
Because it&rsquo;s nothing more than your right Mind, the purpose of
which is to reveal to you your Birthright, to have the Perspective of
the Father as your perspective with nothing interfering with it. So
it&rsquo;s becoming simple.

Faithlessness is when you choose to operate as though you&rsquo;re an
independent agent, where you never check in with the Holy Spirit, you
never check in with the Father. You just do the best you can to get
through your day and perhaps learn a little bit better how to manipulate
your Brothers and Sisters so that tomorrow might be more pleasant for
you even if it&rsquo;s less pleasant for your Brothers and Sisters. So
it&rsquo;s becoming very simple and very easy to understand.

Now you might say this &ldquo;holy instant&rdquo; stuff&mdash;to engage
in faith&mdash;is something you don&rsquo;t have a lot of time for
because you must cope with your days on the same old basis that you
always have. Yes, you can conceive of engaging in the holy instant now
and then throughout the day but you know what? If I suggest that the
goal is to be doing it 24/7, three hundred and sixty five days a
year&mdash;in other words, all the time&mdash;&ldquo;Oh-h, that&rsquo;s
an unrealistic demand.&rdquo;

But let&rsquo;s look at it this way: It&rsquo;s not really doing
something unnatural. And so there&rsquo;s truly a benefit to it. But
imagine that you get on the plane from any place that isn&rsquo;t
England or Australia. And you go to either England or Australia and you
get off the plane and you rent a car. Immediately you&rsquo;re faced
with the task of sitting on the opposite side of the car and driving on
the opposite side of the road. Not only that, you&rsquo;re faced with
walking on the opposite side of the sidewalk, you&rsquo;re faced with
going in through double doors, going through the left door, walking
along the left side of the hallway. If you don&rsquo;t do this, you have
collisions with people or objects.

And so if you&rsquo;re going to enjoy your visit to Australia or
England, you&rsquo;re going to have to pay attention constantly, just
like I&rsquo;m asking you to engage in the holy instant constantly. Why?
Because if you stay conscious while you&rsquo;re in Australia or
England, you won&rsquo;t have any collisions, you won&rsquo;t have
anybody frustrated with you because you are out of place. You will have
a comfortable, enjoyable time. Likewise, if you will engage in the holy
instant, you will have a comfortable, enjoyable time.

Now you all have the capacity to pay that much attention. And if you
realize that right now, your lack of paying attention in terms of the
holy instant, in terms of choosing to be joined with the Father or the
Holy Spirit, it&rsquo;s causing you to experience everything as sin,
disease and death. It&rsquo;s causing you to experience substance as
matter&mdash;vulnerable, undependable, unstable matter. But that&rsquo;s
only if you&rsquo;re choosing to be an orphan. That&rsquo;s only if you
are depending upon your own best judgment. It&rsquo;s only if
you&rsquo;re choosing to ignore your Source &hellip; only if you are
choosing to ignore your right Mind&mdash;your sanity.

So, just as not paying attention while you&rsquo;re driving from the
opposite side of the car on the opposite side of the street, because not
paying attention while you&rsquo;re doing that can cause your death, you
know, and therefore, it&rsquo;s justifiable to pay attention. Likewise,
if you&rsquo;re choosing to practice faithlessness, if you&rsquo;re
choosing to be in the world on the basis of the definitions you are
giving to it, you&rsquo;re likewise faced with the potential, the
inevitability of death, aren&rsquo;t you.

So the payoff is great if you&rsquo;re willing to practice the holy
instant. You see? And the negative side is so negative that
there&rsquo;s really no reason not to try to consistently, persistently
choose for the holy instant, engage in faith, intend to constantly be in
the world with your Father or the Holy Spirit&mdash;I was going to say,
holding your hand, but it&rsquo;s&mdash;with you holding the
Father&rsquo;s Hand or the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s Hand, it&rsquo;s you
hanging on to your sanity.

So you can see, we&rsquo;re talking about actually changing. We&rsquo;re
talking about behaving differently. You get off the plane in Australia
or England and you must behave differently in very fundamental ways.

Students of A Course In Miracles are faced with having to change the way
they behave. And as we&rsquo;ve been reading here, it has to do with
changing from faithlessness to faith, changing from the practice of
independence to the practice of joining and being united with your
Father&mdash;your right Mind, the Holy Spirit. You see? Really doing
something different.

The problem all of you have right now is that you think you have an
option. You think because you&rsquo;re in the United States, you
don&rsquo;t have to pay attention because you already know how to drive
on the right side of the road and walk on the right side of the sidewalk
and the right side of the hallway and so on. And so, because you know
how to practice faithlessness, because you know how to be an orphan, you
think you have the choice of continuing, or engaging in new effort of
shifting to faith, or getting off the plane in Australia or England and
with careful attention, yielding to the way things work there. You see?

So we&rsquo;re talking about change. And as I said, the big problem you
have is that you think you have an option. So you say, &ldquo;Oh-h,
I&rsquo;ll do the hard work tomorrow. Today I&rsquo;ll use the means
that I used yesterday.&rdquo; And so you stay in faithlessness and you
are absent from your experience, the experience of faith&mdash;the
experience of the holy instant in which the laws of God prevail.

So we&rsquo;re at a point here where there&rsquo;s a call for a change
of behavior.

Now I want you to think about this as well: When you get off the plane
in England or Australia, everything looks the same. The roads still have
a white line down the center and parking along the curb on either side.
Everything looks the same and yet the behavior relative to it is
different. So what&rsquo;s happened? You left a country like the United
States where you did things one way, and you got off the plane, and
everything looks the same and you do things a different way.

What&rsquo;s happened is that you have moved over a threshold in which
you have been translated from one set of meanings for a world, to
another set of meanings for a world &hellip; the same world. Do you see
what I&rsquo;m saying?

Waking up is not a matter of moving from the world you&rsquo;re familiar
with to Heaven&mdash;some other world. It will be the same world that
you&rsquo;re experiencing as an independent authorizer, as an orphan, as
one practicing faithlessness, wherein you begin to practice faith and
see it a different way, experience different meanings for it and behave
differently relative to it.

This is important. Translating is much easier than trying to become a
different person or a different kind of soul or an Awakened being, as
opposed to an ignorant mortal.

But you know what? You&rsquo;ve got to make this trip from, we&rsquo;ll
say, the U.S. or Europe to England or Australia, you&rsquo;ve got to
make this trip without the apparent demand to change that you find if
you actually go to England or Australia.

And so you&rsquo;re going to have to learn in the United States,
we&rsquo;ll say, or Europe, how to be as though you are the Son of God
when you still think you&rsquo;re a mortal, without the constant
reminder of everyone around you who are behaving as though they are the
holy Son or Daughter of God. So you will not have the reinforcement that
makes it seem more imperative to you to change, to actually begin to
mentally behave differently, and physically behave differently. But
that&rsquo;s what it&rsquo;s called for.

And as we continue into the book tonight talking about relationships
because relationships are where faith and faithlessness are practiced,
I&rsquo;m going to approach it a little bit differently than it is in
the Course for two reasons: You need the perspective that I&rsquo;m
going to be sharing and you will be able to transfer the perspective to
full-on relationships with others.

Now, you&rsquo;re in relationship with everything &hellip; absolutely
everything. Wherever you are right now, whether you&rsquo;re jogging or
sitting, you are in relationship with everything in your environment.
Even if you don&rsquo;t know all of what is there. You are in
relationship to it. Coming really close to home, we&rsquo;ll say,
you&rsquo;re in relationship with your body.

So we read last week that &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the goal of holiness was set for your relationship&hellip;[^1]
</div>

&hellip; the goal is to learn of the holiness of your relationships. We
talked mostly here about relationships with your Brothers and Sisters.
But because you are in relationship to everything, including your body,
what we&rsquo;re reading about applies there. And that needs to be
clearer because there needs to be more healing going on, which
isn&rsquo;t going on because you&rsquo;re looking at your body and your
world and your Brothers and Sisters with faithlessness. You&rsquo;re
looking at it all from your own perspective, un-joined with That which
knows the truth &hellip; That which knows of your holiness &hellip; That
which knows that all that exists is the infinite manifestation of and
expression of God, your Father/Mother, your Source&mdash;That in which
you have your Being.

Now, I&rsquo;m going to back up to the beginning of the last paragraph
we read last week:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Every situation in which you find yourself is but a means to meet the
purpose set for your relationship.
</div>

Well, who&rsquo;s setting the purpose for the relationship? If
it&rsquo;s you, it&rsquo;s you practicing faithlessness, it&rsquo;s you
acting independent of your Source, it&rsquo;s you behaving as though you
can function without being plugged in.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Every situation in which you find yourself is but a means to meet the
purpose set for your relationship.
</div>

The purpose set for your relationship is for you to experience it from
faith, in faith, through faith, meaning not confidence you have in the
thing you&rsquo;re in relationship with, but in that state of mind which
does not see itself or experience itself as separate from its Source,
separate from the Father, separate from the Holy Spirit.

It&rsquo;s in the joining with your right Mind, which reflects to you
the Father&rsquo;s Purpose and Meaning in everything that you, from
faith, cross the border between the two different ways of functioning in
the one and only world there is.

It&rsquo;s that simple.

Now, if &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Every situation in which you find yourself is but a means to meet the
purpose set for your relationship.
</div>

Then it means that your relationship is set for the experience of being
well, the experience of being whole, which will, if you&rsquo;re coming
out of faithlessness, appear to be healing of your body, we&rsquo;re
going to say, or your relationship with your Brother or Sister, or your
relationship with your knee or your elbow or your heart or your kidneys.
Do you see what I&rsquo;m saying?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Every situation in which you find yourself is but a means to meet the
purpose set for your relationship. See it as something else, and you ARE
faithless.
</div>

You land in Australia, you rent a car, you drive off. If you see the
right-hand lane as anything other than the place for traffic coming from
the opposite direction, if you see it as the lane for you to be moving
forward in, you are in effect, practicing
faithlessness&mdash;you&rsquo;re refusing to be conscious&mdash;and
you&rsquo;re going to have an experience [snaps fingers] to bring your
attention to reality, to the way things work there. You don&rsquo;t want
to see it all as something else. You don&rsquo;t want to see your world
and universe as something other than the Kingdom of Heaven, because then
you&rsquo;re practicing faithlessness, and substance will be matter,
capable of decay and death, instability, undependability&mdash;a threat
to you and your peace of mind.

But, if you practice faith by insisting upon being joined, then you are
where the Father&rsquo;s laws prevail and you will find substance is
Spirit&mdash;the Presence, for lack of better words, the energy of God.
You know? You&rsquo;re going to be looking at the same thing, which
I&rsquo;m going to call, substance: One way, through faithlessness, you
will see matter. The other way, through faith, you will see Spirit.

Now you aren&rsquo;t going to see Spirit until you&rsquo;re willing to
put forth the energy and the attention necessary to be present with your
body&mdash;your knee, your heart, your kidneys, your elbow,
joined&mdash;joined with the Father. So you see what I&rsquo;m saying?

It&rsquo;s necessary to bring the effort forth that&rsquo;s necessary to
look at your body, that which you are in relationship with, and look at
it with the Father instead of your best judgments. And I will tell you,
that under stress, your best judgments will be your worst judgments. And
you will see the result. Your experience of substance will be colored by
the vantage point you are using: Faithlessness or faith.

Now, I know that many think that the Course has nothing to do with
physical healing. But I will tell you that it has to do with your
letting your mind be so filled with the truth, revealed by the Holy
Spirit, that your perspective shifts, your attitudes change. The fear
you had of substance when you thought it was matter will give place to
peace as a result of joining and being in faith. And you will experience
Spirit, which is incapable of being flawed, injured, threatened,
vulnerable.

Please, do not misunderstand or mistake this. And do not fall back into
the lazy attitude that the Course In Miracles has nothing to do with
healing.

You know what? When you land in England or Australia, the reason you
have problems is because you have preexisting mindsets. You believe that
you&rsquo;re supposed to do things on the opposite lane of the road, on
the opposite side of the hall, etcetra.

Now one of the mindsets you all have is, that there is something true
about you: You are spiritual, you are a Soul, you are a Spirit even, you
might say, and you, as a general rule&mdash;the majority&mdash;feel that
this is eternal. But your body? &hellip;uh-uh. Your body is
mortal&mdash;material. It will die. It is not eternal. That&rsquo;s a
mindset. That is a preexisting mindset that you are bringing with you
into your practice of the holy instant. And you must understand that in
the practice of the holy instant, you can&rsquo;t continue to embrace
that mindset because that mindset creates a relationship between you and
your body as though they&rsquo;re separate, they&rsquo;re not identical
and that your body really can&rsquo;t do anything other than grow up,
grow old, grow unwell, sicken and die.

You see, that kind of a relationship arises out of faithlessness. And
it&rsquo;s an unhealthy relationship. It&rsquo;s you standing in a
constant state of diminished appreciation for your body. Not only a
diminished appreciation, but an increasing fear of it as you &ldquo;grow
older.&rdquo;

Your body, as I&rsquo;ve said before, is the visibility and tangibility
of your individuality. Your individuality is God-derived. It&rsquo;s the
Presence of God, That which identifies it is as eternal as that
individuality is. Because all it is, is that which identifies it,
causing it to&mdash;your individuality&mdash;to be experiencible.

Now, as you cross the border from faithlessness to faith, part of the
alertness, part of the attentiveness has to be given to your inclination
to shift back to the familiar. And so when you pull out from a gas
station in Australia and you&rsquo;re inclined to make a right turn into
the closest lane, something in you has to remember to say, &ldquo;Stop!
[snaps fingers] Don&rsquo;t do it! That&rsquo;s not the way (even though
that&rsquo;s what&rsquo;s familiar). You must turn right into the far
lane.&rdquo; You see?

You must be alert if you want to practice faith and if you want to get
in that place where God&rsquo;s laws prevail, you are going to have to
be alert when the idea occurs to you to say, &ldquo;I can&rsquo;t depend
upon my body. My body is going to rack and ruin. It is going to die
sooner or later and it looks like it is going to be sooner.&rdquo;
You&rsquo;ve got to catch those thoughts so that you don&rsquo;t turn
into that avenue of belief&mdash;that rut of belief&mdash;and then run
into failure at experiencing the holy instant or healing, and then being
surprised at it. You see?

So you&rsquo;ve got to pay attention. And when you begin to doubt your
body, when you begin to think that healing is impossible or it&rsquo;s
unreasonable to expect, you&rsquo;ve got to
say&mdash;within&mdash;&ldquo;That&rsquo;s bullshit! I do not accept
that!&rdquo;

You can say, &ldquo;Raj, has told me that the substance of my body is
Spirit, and that my body is the visibility and tangibility of my divine
individuality and therefore, it has a divine function that is eternal.
And so I am going to refuse to engage further in the thoughts that
create great fear in me, even though I&rsquo;m familiar with them and
everyone around me is familiar with them, and reinforce them.&rdquo; You
see?

You&rsquo;ve got to do something different. That&rsquo;s what it&rsquo;s
about. And you&rsquo;ve got to be careful not to carry the old ruts
forward, or to try to. Okay.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The goal of illusion is as closely tied to faithlessness &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you know, being un-joined, that&rsquo;s what faithlessness
means.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The goal of illusion is as closely tied to faithlessness as &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; as what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; faith to truth.
</div>

Now when you read a sentence like this, it sounds as though the real
subject is:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The goal of illusion is as closely tied to faithlessness &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; um-m, wow &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; as faith to truth.
</div>

You know, as-faith-to-truth&mdash;four words. But when you read a
sentence like that, take a look at it, because it is saying that faith
is closely tied to truth. Faith&mdash;engaging in being joined with the
Father or the Holy Spirit&mdash;is closely tied to truth. That&rsquo;s
why it says that when you practice the holy instant, God&rsquo;s laws
prevail. That&rsquo;s where God&rsquo;s laws prevail, because faith is
closely tied to truth. Being joined is closely tied, it&rsquo;s actually
inseparable from experiencing the perfection of God&rsquo;s Creation,
which you&rsquo;re not separate from and no part of you is separate
from. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you lack faith in anyone &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and I&rsquo;m going to say, anything.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you lack faith in &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your body &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; to fulfill, and PERFECTLY&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; it&rsquo;s &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; part in any situation dedicated in advance to truth, YOUR
dedication is divided.
</div>

Here&rsquo;s what it actually says:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you lack faith in anyone to fulfill, and PERFECTLY, his part in any
situation dedicated in advance to truth, YOUR dedication is divided.
</div>

Now I&rsquo;m going to read it with the words for tonight:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you lack faith in [your body] to fulfill, and PERFECTLY, [it&rsquo;s]
part in any situation dedicated in advance to truth, YOUR dedication is
divided.
</div>

Well I&rsquo;ll tell you something: Your body, being the visibility and
tangibility of your individuality, has a dedication from day
one&mdash;from the moment of Creation&mdash;it has a dedication to
truth. It is here with the intent and the capacity to identify You
perfectly, period. That is its function. It&rsquo;s function is to
identify the Presence of God perfectly.

Now, if you lack faith in it, to fill its part, your dedication is
divided. You see? So if your knee or elbow or heart or kidneys or any
other part of your body seems to be giving you a problem, you better
check to see whether your dedication is divided. What are you bringing
to the relationship? &ldquo;Oh, well it&rsquo;s just a physical body,
and you know, in a few years it&rsquo;ll die and my Spirit will go on,
blah, blah, blah.&rdquo; Man, that&rsquo;s a great way to miss out on
the fullness of life now, that will always be the fullness of life if
you practice faith.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And so you have been faithless to each other, and used your
faithlessness AGAINST each other.
</div>

In this case, your body hasn&rsquo;t been faithless to you, but you are,
you have been, until you see and accept that you&rsquo;re the holy Son
or Daughter of God who&rsquo;s individuality is identified perfectly by
this thing called a body, you will practice faithlessness against your
body. Your fear of it &hellip; your doubt of it, is an attack on it.

Now the simple fact is, that it can&rsquo;t change your doubt. Your
faithlessness practiced cannot stop your body from being the visibility
and tangibility of your divine individuality. But it can and it does
cause your experience of it to be miserable and it does seem to cause
you to go through an experience that has been identified as
death&mdash;with accompanying suffering. And that&rsquo;s not your
Birthright.

Continuing:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
No relationship is holy unless its holiness goes with it everywhere.
</div>

Well, that&rsquo;s what happens in faith. The holiness of everything
goes everywhere with it because you&rsquo;re paying attention since
you&rsquo;re driving on the left-hand side of the road and you
aren&rsquo;t familiar with how to do it and if you foul up you can have
a real problem. You see? But you practice faith and learn to practice it
more resolutely and the holiness of its relationship goes with it
everywhere.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As holiness and faith go hand in hand, so must its faith go everywhere
with it.
</div>

You know, not just when it&rsquo;s convenient, not at the end of the day
when the kids are in bed or, you know, you&rsquo;re home from work and
your boss isn&rsquo;t looking over your shoulder &hellip; you know.
Holiness and faith go hand in hand.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As holiness and faith go hand in hand, so must its faith go everywhere
with it. The goal&rsquo;s reality &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; listen to this:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The goal's reality will call forth and ACCOMPLISH every miracle needed
for its fulfillment.
</div>

The way things work governs. And when you&rsquo;re not fighting the way
things work, the way things work &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; will call forth and ACCOMPLISH every miracle needed for its
fulfillment.
</div>

Kidneys functioning &hellip; elbow healed &hellip; heart problems gone
&hellip; knee problems gone.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The goal's reality &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; not the one you set up but the goal set in place by the Father
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; will call forth and ACCOMPLISH &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; this is an absolute statement here &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; will call forth and ACCOMPLISH every miracle needed for its
fulfillment.
</div>

The fulfillment of what? The goal&rsquo;s reality. The Father&rsquo;s
Will &hellip; that&rsquo;s what it means.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Nothing too small or too enormous, too weak or too compelling, but will
be gently turned to its use and purpose.
</div>

When you don&rsquo;t get in the way of the goal&rsquo;s reality, it
doesn&rsquo;t matter what it is. If it&rsquo;s a tiny thing or a huge
thing it will be gently turned to its use, the use of Reality, the use
and purpose of God&rsquo;s Will.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The universe will serve it gladly, as it serves the universe.
</div>

You see? This isn&rsquo;t a promise, this is a statement of fact.
It&rsquo;s a statement of fact that governs you constantly.  Again:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The universe will serve it gladly, as it serves the universe. But do not
INTERFERE.
</div>

That&rsquo;s what it says right here.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The universe will serve it gladly, as it serves the universe. But do not
INTERFERE.
</div>

How can you interfere? By slipping back into faithlessness. And again,
it doesn&rsquo;t mean you&rsquo;re not having faith &hellip;
you&rsquo;re not having faith &hellip; you&rsquo;re practicing
faithlessness. No. It means that you&rsquo;ve slipped back into
faithlessness, which means you&rsquo;ve slipped back into doing your own
thinking. You&rsquo;ve slipped back into an independent rut that
you&rsquo;re familiar with and you&rsquo;re going to try and deal with
life from that independent place where you refuse to be joined&mdash;you
refuse to take the time to be joined&mdash;which constitutes faith and
places you in that place where God&rsquo;s laws prevail. You see?

It&rsquo;s really simple and it&rsquo;s really clear. It&rsquo;s getting
simpler. The truth is becoming more compelling.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The power set in you in whom the Holy Spirit's goal has been established
is so far beyond your little conception of the infinite that you have no
idea how great the strength that goes with you. And you can use THIS in
perfect safety.
</div>

It&rsquo;s that in which God&rsquo;s laws prevail. It&rsquo;s that in
which your sanity returns to you. It&rsquo;s that in which you&rsquo;re
vulnerability and your mortality disappear, replaced by a new
perspective that doesn&rsquo;t call fear and guilt into play and undoes
all that fear and guilt seemed to cause.

I&rsquo;m going to read this again:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The power set in you in whom the Holy Spirit's goal has been established
is so far beyond your little conception of the infinite that you have no
idea how great the strength that goes with you. And you can use THIS in
perfect safety. Yet for all its might, so great it reaches past the
stars and to the universe that lies beyond them, your little
faithlessness can make it useless, if you would use the faithlessness
instead.
</div>

Again: If you choose to love to think for yourself, to love to make
definitions, to love to come to conclusions, to love to figure out how
to manipulate your Brothers and Sisters in the world to make you better
and better even if it cost you everything in your world drastically.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet for all its might, so great it reaches past the stars and to the
universe that lies beyond them, your little faithlessness can make it
useless, if you would use the faithlessness instead &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; if you would use privacy &hellip; if you would use independence
&hellip; if you would use autonomy &hellip; if you would use private
authority instead.

It&rsquo;s clear isn&rsquo;t it. You are to expect to see God&rsquo;s
laws prevailing right here! Right now! With everything you&rsquo;re in
relationship with, including your body. And the holiness of your
relationship is what you are destined to Wake up to and what you are
called upon to let in, and which you are to prepare your mind to
experience by refusing to practice the habits of faithlessness that keep
you bound.

God&rsquo;s laws prevailing are a here and now event, which you must all
stop refusing to let in by consciously and conscientiously giving your
attention elsewhere.

Remember, Waking up is what we could call a translation of perception,
where the one and only world which can be looked at from two different
vantage points is looked at from the only one that&rsquo;s true &hellip;
the lens &hellip; the lens of faith and the absence of faithlessness.

I love you all. Let it be a good week, because it will be, whether you
let it in or not.

Okay.

[^1]: T17.7 The Need for Faith

