---
title: Oct 15, 2011
ref: "T17.7 The Need for Faith"
alink: "/acim/text/17/chap1707/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

Well you know, of course, everything that we&rsquo;ve been talking about
has to do with relationships and how to have a holy
relationship&mdash;how to abandon an unholy one.

And we&rsquo;ve been talking about the fact that you are in relationship
with everything. Not just each other, but with every part of God&rsquo;s
Creation: Tables, chairs, lamps, sky, clouds &hellip; everything.

But I want you to understand that you can&rsquo;t Wake up by having a
totally holy relationship with a rock or with a leaf. You see, when you
got your divorce from the Father and became a so-called independent
agent, you didn&rsquo;t do it all by yourself. You did not stand in
front of your Father and deny Him all by yourself. You were joined with
another Son or Daughter of God and the two of you had arrived at a
decision to look at things the way you wanted to look at them to
determine what they are, what they mean, what they&rsquo;re function is
and how you might use them to your benefit.

And you and this other one said, &ldquo;Let&rsquo;s agree that this is a
tree. Let&rsquo;s agree that this is a flower. Let&rsquo;s agree that
all living things are part of a process called evolution that started,
not in the Mind of God, but in the past&mdash;in a big bang.&rdquo; You
see?

And so in a way, it&rsquo;s sort of like you and your partner went
before God and got married to each other, and unmarried from God. And so
the two of you, behaving as independent agents together&mdash;which in a
way doesn&rsquo;t constitute being an independent agent, does
it?&mdash;the two of you in your decision to be independent together,
joined and left your Father, abandoned your Father, abandoned His
Perspective which up until that point had been yours. Okay?

So because you left the Kingdom of Heaven, because you left your sanity
joined with another in a mutual agreement to be at odds with Reality,
it&rsquo;s very simple: Your return Home will not be something you do
all by yourself, but with a Brother. That&rsquo;s why it says, &ldquo;to
look into your brother&rsquo;s eyes and remember God.&rdquo;   You see?
That&rsquo;s the criteria. That&rsquo;s the way it works.

I know it seems like it would be much easier if it didn&rsquo;t depend
on your Brother, if your Waking up didn&rsquo;t depend upon your
Brother, but it does &hellip; it does.

Now, we read last week that:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The power set in you in whom the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s goal has been
established &hellip;[^1]
</div>

&hellip; because you decided to let it in &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is so far beyond your little conception of the infinite that
you have no idea how great the strength that goes with you. And you can
use THIS in perfect safety. Yet for all its might, so great it reaches
pas the stars and to the universe that lies beyond them, your little
faithlessness &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; it doesn&rsquo;t take a lot &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; your little faithlessness can make it useless, if you would use
the faithlessness instead.
</div>

Faith is you joined with the Holy Spirit&mdash;you joined with the
Father&rsquo;s Perspective having invited It in. It is you abandoning
your independence&mdash;your capacity to think. Which is the means you
and your Brother have adopted for establishing yourselves as independent
agents and therefore orphans and therefore ignorant of the truth.

Now, the simple small practice of thinking on your own without enquiring
as to the meaning of everything from That which gives it
Meaning&mdash;the Father&mdash;causes you to experience everything in a
totally distorted fashion. And although you seem to be in partnership
with your Brothers, you are independent from them, behaving
independently together and therefore apparently in concert, in union
with them without being joined with them at all because you&rsquo;re in
a total state of self-protection. That&rsquo;s what we&rsquo;ve been
talking about and that&rsquo;s what Waking up is the departure
from&mdash;that little bit of thinking is really a full act of
independence from God. You can have the shortest, tiniest thought, but
engaging in it is a total disengagement from your Father.

Now, Waking up&mdash;the practice of faith&mdash;means joining again.
But not just joining with the Father, not just saying, &ldquo;Father
what is the truth here?&rdquo; Not just saying, &ldquo;Holy Spirit, fill
me with the knowledge of truth that it&rsquo;s my Birthright to be
experiencing,&rdquo; that isn&rsquo;t all there is to it. You need to be
asking to know the truth so that you might from that basis of experience
and understanding, relate to your Brother because you…love…your…Brother.

At the bottom line, in order to Wake up, your Brother has to be the
reason you want to Wake up. It&rsquo;s beautiful. But not the typical
attitude and not the attitude that any of you engage in constantly. In
moments of inspiration, in moments of passion &hellip; yes.

Now&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; your little faithlessness &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; it says &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; can make it useless&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the power that&rsquo;s setting you by the Holy Spirit&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; if you would use the faithlessness instead.

Yet think on this, and learn the CAUSE of faithlessness: You think you
hold against the other what he has done to you.
</div>

You see? It&rsquo;s one thing to talk about recognizing that a leaf, a
flower, a tree, whatever, does not have faithlessness in you, does not
express faithlessness in any way, but presents itself unadorned with
thoughts, opinions, attitudes as what it truly is, letting the
Father&rsquo;s Purpose shine through to you. And so He loves you truly.
But your Brothers don&rsquo;t for their own reasons and so they bring
faithlessness into the picture &hellip; as well as you.

Now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; think on this, and learn the cause of faithlessness:
</div>

Where does this willingness, I&rsquo;m going to say, to approach your
Brother on the basis of your best judgments and thinking come from? Why
do you do that instead of approach your Brother with faith, joined with
the Father in his Perspective?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You think you hold against the other what he has done to you. But what
you really blame him for is what YOU did to HIM.

&hellip; what YOU did to HIM.
</div>

Well, when you choose to be unjoined with the Holy Spirit or the Father
and you are basing everything on your best thinking, your best
reasoning, your best judgments &hellip; well, it&rsquo;s very simple:
You&rsquo;re in a mean-spirited frame of mind because you are in a
defensive frame of mind, because you&rsquo;re afraid. You are
experiencing fear and you&rsquo;re experiencing it because you got a
divorce from your Father and you&rsquo;re feeling the vulnerability of
it. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is not HIS past but YOURS you hold against him.
</div>

Now, here&rsquo;s the other aspect of it: The first part is that you
hold against him the reasons he is providing you to be afraid. And yet
the reason you&rsquo;re afraid is not because of what he&rsquo;s doing,
but because you&rsquo;ve chosen to look at him and be in a state of
independence from your Father&mdash;unplugged from your Source. And that
is an experience of vulnerability.

And so &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; what you really blame him for is what YOU did to HIM.
</div>

What you did to him and what you&rsquo;re doing to him is you&rsquo;re
looking through the lens of your so-called independence and through the
lens of your fear and your guilt and you are determining what he is on
the basis of your lousy frame of mind. That&rsquo;s what you&rsquo;re
doing to him. And so you project on to him your mean-spirited, negative,
self-protective attitudes. And then you believe your attitudes and you
say he&rsquo;s responsible!

Now, he&rsquo;s the holy Son of God just as you are. But when you look
at him and when you look into his eyes, you see his past, you see his
humanness, you see his foibles. But the foibles you see are the ones
you&rsquo;ve projected onto him, because you&rsquo;re not having an
actual connection with him.

It&rsquo;s not love. It&rsquo;s not a union. It&rsquo;s not a
partnership. It&rsquo;s not even a relationship. It&rsquo;s an attempt
to be out of relationship with someone. It&rsquo;s an attempt to be out
of relationship with someone. You see the craziness of it? It&rsquo;s an
attempt to be together independently.

You&rsquo;re doing that to him and that&rsquo;s what you don&rsquo;t
like about him. That&rsquo;s what you&rsquo;re afraid of him for.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; what you really blame him for is what YOU did to HIM. It is not
HIS past but YOURS you hold against him. And you lack faith in him
because of what YOU were.
</div>

You, the one who got a divorce from your Father &hellip; you, the one
who chose to be independent &hellip; you, who chose to behave as though
you could be independent and become something important.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet you are as innocent of what you were &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you are as innocent of what you believe you are and what you
want to be

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; as he is.
</div>

And there&rsquo;s the miraculous answer: You are as innocent as he is.

Why aren&rsquo;t you willing to see that? You need to ask yourself that
question.

And I&rsquo;ll tell you, there&rsquo;s only one answer: There is no good
reason. So don&rsquo;t even bother to get out a sheet of paper and write
down the list of the reasons. The only answer is, there is no reason.
And there&rsquo;s your salvation and there&rsquo;s his because that
keeps you from going down an endless road that goes nowhere.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you are as innocent of what you were &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; or what you believe you have been &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; as he is.
</div>

That idea can be very demanding. It can knock the breath out of you. It
can make your mind expand or let go of some of its limits. You are as
innocent as he is.  He is as innocent as you are.

You are simply called upon to release yourself and him from the
mean-spirited, small-minded perspective that you&rsquo;ve been engaging
with him from, and that you&rsquo;ve been using to determine the meaning
of your relationship.

You must be willing to say, &ldquo;There&rsquo;s no good reason for me
to be doing this. I don&rsquo;t have to go look for the reason I&rsquo;m
doing this. I simply need to consider the possibility that my Brother is
as innocent as I am, that I, the Holy Son of God, am as innocent as he
is, the holy Son or Daughter of God that he or she is.&rdquo; You see?
You need to shift to a different perspective and simply abandon the one
that is meaningless.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What never was is causeless, and is not THERE to interfere with truth.
</div>

Whatever you saw about your Brother that you&rsquo;re holding against
him&mdash;whatever negative that you have projected on him that you are
holding him responsible for&mdash;is causeless. It&rsquo;s not actual.
It&rsquo;s an imagination. That&rsquo;s all!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What never was is causeless, and is not THERE to interfere with truth.
</div>

Therefore, truth hasn&rsquo;t been interfered with. Therefore, Reality,
the Kingdom of Heaven, that you are in the process of becoming willing
to let register with you, is waiting to register with you. Nothing has
to be improved. Your &ldquo;bastard&rdquo; Brother does not need to go
through some improvement to become a holy Son of God. He simply needs to
be recognized for the Son of God that he is, with genuineness by you.
That&rsquo;s your part in looking into your Brother&rsquo;s eyes and
remembering God. Being open to and in a place where his divinity can
register with you. That&rsquo;s all.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There IS no cause for faithlessness&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; there is no cause for it. But there is a cause for faith.
That&rsquo;s like saying there is no cause for darkness, but there is a
cause for light. Darkness is just the absence of light. It has no
presence to it. Faithlessness has no presence to it either. It has no
cause. There is no cause for faithlessness but there is a Cause for
truth&mdash;for faith. That Cause has entered any situation which shares
its purpose.

Now I must say, that any situation that exists shares God&rsquo;s
Purpose because in actuality, the situation is God Moving&mdash;God
Appearing. But that doesn&rsquo;t mean that any situation which shares
God&rsquo;s Purpose is experienced by you as that which shares
God&rsquo;s Purpose, when you are intent on determining what the purpose
of everything is from your private personal standpoint. And so you
don&rsquo;t see the truth and you&rsquo;re not in a position to relate
to the truth&mdash;to the reality of the situation, the reality of the
relationship.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The light of truth shines from the center of the situation&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; whatever situation it might be, because it&rsquo;s either the
Kingdom of Heaven appearing to you as the Kingdom of Heaven or
it&rsquo;s the Kingdom of Heaven appearing to you as whatever
you&rsquo;ve defined it as&mdash;a material universe. You see?

But &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The light of truth shines from the center of the situation, and touches
everyone to whom the situation's purpose calls.
</div>

Do you understand that this world and universe that you see is not just
sort of a passive reaction to evolution? It is an active Presence of God
infinitely expressed and expressing &hellip; extending Love, extending
uninhibitedly its Meanings to you, embracing you on purpose. Not just
because it&rsquo;s supposed to radiate what It is. It radiates what It
is because It is built into It to do it in relation to you so that you
might experience It for what It is, exactly!

The walls &hellip; the floor &hellip; the carpet &hellip; anything in
your presence right now is, because of its divinity, loving
you&mdash;embracing you with the intent to communicate to you its
Meaning&mdash;the Meaning set into place by the Father at this very
moment to express Himself and for His Expression to be experienced.

You are constantly in an environment or a situation, which is a circle
of love, an embrace of love, a giving and receiving of love, if you are
doing your part. If you&rsquo;re doing your part of looking into your
Brother&rsquo;s eyes and seeing God, or looking into the flower and
seeing God, if you&rsquo;re doing your part then the giving that the
world is embracing you with, is received by you and your recognition of
it is the Gift back to it of the love you are sharing, by not
introducing any other concepts, any other definitions, any other
mean-spirited, small-minded meanings that you might otherwise present.
You see?

So it&rsquo;s a circle of giving and receiving.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
That Cause has entered any situation which shares Its purpose. The light
of truth shines from the center of the situation, and touches everyone
to whom the situation's purpose calls.
</div>

What is the situations purpose? It&rsquo;s the purpose set in place by
the Father in the establishment of the situation. It&rsquo;s God
reaching out. It&rsquo;s God extended.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The light of truth &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; or God &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; shines from the center of the situation, and touches everyone
to whom the situation's purpose calls. [And] It calls to EVERYONE.
</div>

And therefore, it touches everyone. But not everyone experiences it. If
they are inserting their definitions in the face of it&mdash;in the face
of the Gift&mdash;and turning the Gift into something it&rsquo;s not,
thereby causing the one changing the meaning of the Gift to miss seeing
God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It calls to EVERYONE.
</div>

The purpose in the situation. And not only that, like I said, it is a
call of love, it is a conscious embrace of love in which you are blessed
by the Gift of love.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is no situation which does not involve your WHOLE relationship, in
every aspect and complete in every part. You can leave nothing of
yourself outside it, and keep the situation holy.
</div>

You see? As long as you are introducing your own thoughts and opinions
and beliefs and serving them totally, you&rsquo;re leaving something of
yourself outside of the circumstance&mdash;the situation, the Kingdom of
Heaven. You&rsquo;re holding a part of your mind separate and filling it
with your own definitions and meanings and applying it to the situation.
You see? So you&rsquo;re not bringing all of yourself to the recognition
of God in your Brother&rsquo;s eyes, or in the flower or the beetle or
the clod of dirt.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You can leave nothing of yourself outside it, and keep the situation
holy. For it shares the purpose of your whole relationship, and derives
its meaning from it.

Enter each situation with the faith that you give to each other, or you
ARE faithless to your own relationship.
</div>

Now here we&rsquo;re speaking of your relationship with your Brother or
your Sister and not the flower or the rock.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Enter each situation with the faith that you give to each other&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; faith &hellip; meaning you being from the joined place with the
Father seeking His Perspective on whatever it is that&rsquo;s happening.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Enter each situation with the faith that you give to each other, or you
ARE faithless to your own relationship.
</div>

You see? And you will not get into the Kingdom of Heaven, which means
that you will not see transformation in front of your eyes: Where
illness is replaced by health, where lost limbs and organs, through
surgery, are restored, where wholeness takes the place of partiality.
You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Enter each situation with the faith that you give to each other, or you
ARE faithless to your own relationship.
</div>

That&rsquo;s the way you continue to dream. And that&rsquo;s the way you
avoid returning to your sanity. That&rsquo;s the way you avoid the call
from every situation&mdash;the call to you to recognize in it,
God&mdash;so that you might be in harmony with the Father&rsquo;s
Perspective, having released your insistence upon your own will.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your faith &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your joined state &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; will call the others to share your purpose, as this same
purpose called forth the faith in YOU.
</div>

You see? Oh-h, here we are back to this word, &ldquo;involvement.&rdquo;

Now, you&rsquo;re all very aware of what is happening on your globe
presently. It&rsquo;s a call for involvement. It is involvement
expressed. In other words, the call for involvement has brought
involvement forth. And some of you think it&rsquo;s messy, and some of
you think it&rsquo;s negative and some of you see it as salvation.

Well, the point is, that not everyone is sitting home in isolation with
their own private thoughts, thinking, &ldquo;Well, I&rsquo;m glad the
Egyptian spring is happening in Egypt and not here. My God, I might have
to become involved. I might have to get off my couch and I might
actually have to make telephone calls or go down where the group is
gathered to be counted, so that what is happening can be seen as
something worth paying attention to by those with the cameras that give
attention to things. You see? Oh yeah, involvement.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your faith will call the others to share your purpose&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your joining with the Father and wanting the Father&rsquo;s
Perspective because it&rsquo;s your own sanity &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; will call the others to share your purpose, as this same
purpose called forth the faith in YOU. And you will see the means you
once employed to lead you to illusions transformed to means for truth.
</div>

Well, who is the means you once employed to lead you to illusions that
might be the same that would lead you to truth? You employed the use of
your attention. In both cases, it&rsquo;s the use to which you&rsquo;re
putting your attention that makes the difference. Using your attention,
applying your attention to your best thinking, your private thoughts,
leads you to illusion. But taking that very same attention and giving it
to the Father, or saying, &ldquo;Holy Spirit, what is the truth
here?&rdquo; and abandoning your isolation, that leads you to truth. You
see?

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you will see the means you once employed to lead you to
illusions transformed to means for truth.
</div>

You see? You see how simple? You don&rsquo;t even have to be educated or
learn something new. You just have to turn your attention from here
&hellip; to there. And you already know how to employ your attention.
You don&rsquo;t have to learn anything there. You see? It&rsquo;s so
simple.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When the Holy Spirit changed the purpose of your relationship by
exchanging yours for His, the goal He placed there was extended to every
situation in which you enter, or will EVER enter. And every situation
was thus made free of the past, which would have made it purposeless.
</div>

So the changes going on, on your globe are the means of abandoning the
past. But just having objection, just speaking up, just joining together
in concert in itself is not enough. The joining together needs to be
illuminated by everyone&mdash;each one, as many of you as are willing to
do it&mdash;to be involved while asking, &ldquo;Father, what is called
for here? Father, what is the transforming truth? Father, what is the
simple pivot point&mdash;not the complicated one&mdash;the simple pivot
point upon which this whole picture could shift. Inspire me, because I
want to know and I want to share it, because I want there to be peace.
Tell me, illuminate to me the truth, the simple answer.&rdquo; You see?

Why? So you can sit on your couch and know about it and say, &ldquo;Wow,
if you guys knew, you would be amazed and this would stop.&rdquo; You
see?

So the practice of the holy instant and learning to see the truth means
nothing if it isn&rsquo;t brought into your relationships actively.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your faith will call the others to share your purpose, as this same
purpose called forth the faith in YOU.
</div>

&ldquo;Oh, you mean, I have to have enough faith that it will actually
involve me with others and it will call them to share my purpose, which
is really the Father&rsquo;s Purpose? You mean &hellip; man oh man
&hellip; you know, I have a job, I have responsibilities, I have things
to take care of. You know, I have set up my life very logically and very
intelligently and there&rsquo;s great order to it, and involvement will
upset the whole thing! If something I do will call the other&rsquo;s to
share my purpose, which now is God&rsquo;s Purpose because I asked to
know what the Purpose was &hellip; why, you know what? I didn&rsquo;t
sign up for that &hellip;&rdquo;

Well, you know what, the moment you said, &ldquo;Father, I want a
divorce &hellip; Father, I&rsquo;d rather see things my way,&rdquo; . .
why you did set yourself up for it, because you&rsquo;ve got to come
back Home. You can&rsquo;t stay insane forever. And there&rsquo;s no way
you can justify being insane even just for a second.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When the Holy Spirit changed the purpose of your relationship by
exchanging yours &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the one you made up &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; for His, the goal He placed there was extended to every
situation in which you enter, or will EVER enter. And every situation
was thus made free of the past, which would have made it purposeless.
</div>

Well, what&rsquo;s happening right now is making what was purposeless
end.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You call for faith because of Him Who walks with you in EVERY situation.
</div>

Him has a capital &ldquo;H.&rdquo; That&rsquo;s the Holy Spirit.
That&rsquo;s the Father and that is your Brother and Sister.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You call for faith &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you insist upon, you desire to join and be joined &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; because of Him Who walks with you in EVERY situation.
</div>

The Holy Spirit, the Father and your Brother. But your Brother is the
key, because without him you won&rsquo;t go Home. And without him and
you together he won&rsquo;t go Home unless he finds someone else to do
what you&rsquo;re unwilling to do&mdash;who will bring to the situation
the one thing that hasn&rsquo;t been brought to the situation.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You are no longer wholly insane, nor no longer alone. For loneliness in
God MUST be a dream.
</div>

Now mind you, you&rsquo;re never alone. But you think you&rsquo;re alone
and you feel like you&rsquo;re alone, but that&rsquo;s because
you&rsquo;ve said, &ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;d rather do it myself &hellip;
you know, back off! I&rsquo;m not comfortable, but I&rsquo;m not so
uncomfortable that I would abandon my destiny that I&rsquo;ve put in
front of me. I&rsquo;m not ready yet.&rdquo;

But you know what? That doesn&rsquo;t justify anything and it
won&rsquo;t any longer. You know, I&rsquo;m going to tell you that
Waking up is imminent and you&rsquo;re not going to have the choice,
because the rapidity with which Awakening is occurring, the rapidity
with which the transformation is occurring, is such that there is a
rapid decrease of those joined in maintaining the illusion of
separateness and the validity of it. And it&rsquo;s just going to become
harder and harder to maintain the status-quo.

You&rsquo;re seeing some of that on your globe right now. And
don&rsquo;t be too quick to discount it, because there&rsquo;s no order
to it, because there&rsquo;s no plan to it. Stop discounting it and
start listening for what the plan is, start listening for what the
purpose is, what the goal is, what the call is that&rsquo;s coming from
the situation, because God is in the center of every situation. Because
every situation is the Kingdom of Heaven perceived clearly or
misperceived.

So stop engaging in judgment, because that&rsquo;s misperception. And
start inquiring, &ldquo;What is the answer, what is my part?&rdquo; And
I invite you all to be willing to actually do something, actually get up
off that couch and touch someone else with the ideas that we&rsquo;re
talking about, with the ideas that &hellip; hey, it&rsquo;s time to be
looking for the answer and stop being obsessed with objecting to the way
the answer is occurring by virtue of people being involved with each
other and saying, &ldquo;We want the truth.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You whose relationship shares the Holy Spirit's goal are set apart from
loneliness because the truth has come.

You whose relationship shares the Holy Spirit's goal
</div>

&hellip; you whose relationship with your Brother or Sister or your
world.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You whose relationship shares the Holy Spirit's goal &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; because you&rsquo;ve said, &ldquo;Father, what is the truth
here? Holy Spirit, what is the truth here?&rdquo; You &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; are set apart from loneliness because the truth has come.
</div>

If you&rsquo;ve asked and you meant it and you listen and you
didn&rsquo;t abandon the listening until the clarity came, then truth
has come.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Its call for faith is strong.

Its call for faith &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what&rsquo;s the &ldquo;it&rdquo;? Your relationship &hellip;
your relationship with your fellowman. Your relationship with your
fellowman in Italy, or your fellowman in Cincinnati, or your fellowman
in Seattle, or Japan, or India, wherever.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Its call for faith is strong.
</div>

Faith in what? Not faith in something, but it&rsquo;s call for joining.
Remember faith is the Meaning of joining and it is the Meaning of what
is revealed to you as an inspired and Awakened conscious experience as a
result of joining. That&rsquo;s faith.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Its call &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the situations call, your relationships call &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; for faith is strong.
</div>

Why wouldn&rsquo;t it be? The goal, the call of any situation is the
active, living Presence of God pulling for and inviting, we&rsquo;ll
say, the recognition of God, so there&rsquo;s no misunderstanding that
distorts the experience into one of sin, sickness, death and a material
world.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Its call for faith is strong. Use not your faithlessness against it, for
it calls you to salvation and to peace.

Use not your faithlessness &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; use not your independence, use not your private thinking, use
not your best concepts, use not your justifications for avoiding
involvement.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Use not your faithlessness against it, for it calls you &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what does? The call of faith in the situation &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; it calls you to salvation and to peace.
</div>

Now, there is certainly an unmistakable call for joining, not joining
against Brother and Sister, not joining country against country, not
joining where one economy is trying to best another economy, but joining
with the Holy Spirit, joining with the Father, asking to be inspired
with the truth, with the answers that will specifically contribute to
the healing of inequity, of dishonesty, of all of the things that
undermine the experience and the expression of human decency.

You&rsquo;ve got a part to play in it, just in terms of being humanly
decent yourselves. And you have a part to play in it by virtue of
actively, consciously choosing to become involved with your Brother for
the purpose of seeing God there and remembering God by virtue of your
involvement with your Brother. Because it&rsquo;s in the joining with
him and the invitation to him and the simple parity of truth expressed
by you that can be embraced by him that allows the two of you to be
transformed and go Home together. Which means: Stand right where you are
in the middle of the Kingdom of Heaven, that looks like the world and
universe, and being in it in an entirely new way, with an entirely new
perspective, the motivation of which is, I&rsquo;m going to say,
overwhelming love. And I only mean overwhelming in the sense of so huge
that it overflows you.  It cannot be contained by you. And you must let
it out. And you must let it be the call, the circumstance that everyone
else experiences as that which causes them to say, &ldquo;Not my will be
done, by Thine &hellip;&rdquo; and join the Awakening.

I love you all. And I look forward to being with you next time.

[^1]: T17.7 The Need for Faith

