---
title: Oct 23, 2011
ref: "T17.8 The Conditions of Forgiveness"
alink: "/acim/text/17/chap1708/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

A new section:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*The Conditions of Forgiveness*[^1]
</div>

Well, one thing that&rsquo;s very helpful in leading to the correct
answer is to understand that the forgiveness we&rsquo;re talking about
is a forgiveness that you are going to extend to another. It isn&rsquo;t
forgiveness coming to you. So, we&rsquo;re not going to be talking about
how you can behave nicely, socially, acceptably, so that you seem to be
worthy of forgiveness&mdash;of being forgiven.

No, that would be satisfying and that would be the thing most everyone
would want to put into practice first.

But this Waking up process&mdash;this coming back into your right
Mind&mdash;is always a Gift &hellip; the process is always a Gift. The
forgiveness is always given to someone else because until you&rsquo;re
willing to give something to someone else, love doesn&rsquo;t come into
the picture. And love is the essential element. It&rsquo;s the nature of
you. It&rsquo;s the substance of your Being. Every single aspect of you
is love in expression because every aspect of you is God presenting
Himself&mdash;God presenting Herself.

So, if you want the dream of sin, sickness and death&mdash;of
suffering&mdash;to end, you&rsquo;re going to have to have someone else
on your mind, someone other than yourself on your mind.

As I said last week, it&rsquo;s the criteria. It&rsquo;s the way it
works. It&rsquo;s not what you&rsquo;re used to. It&rsquo;s called
unselfishness. And saints are unselfish. Some like Albert Schweitzer
were unselfish or they&rsquo;re thought of as being unselfish.

But umm &hellip; you? No, not to any consistent degree because you have
things you want for yourself that take up space and time, that take time
away from your Brother, who&rsquo;s eyes you are to look into and
remember God. And all the while you&rsquo;re attending to your wants and
your needs and leaving no space for your Brother you are affectively
barring yourself from Waking up&mdash;from returning to your natural
divine state of mind in which your divinity embraces the divinity of
everything else because the divinity of everything else is more
important to you than you.

And the Gift you make to your Brother in the holy instant that
contributes to his Awakening is part and parcel of the integrity of your
Being functioning in a grounded way right here, right now in what could
be called the &ldquo;human condition,&rdquo; &ldquo;the material world
and universe.&rdquo; And because it operates there and functions there,
it brings about the transformation of Vision that allows you to see the
Kingdom of Heaven where you had been seeing your definitions of It and
you were calling it a material world and universe. It&rsquo;s that
simple.

Now:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
THE CONDITIONS OF FORGIVENESS.
</div>

The conditions of forgiving your Brother &hellip; not the conditions of
being forgiven.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The holy instant is nothing more than a special case, or an extreme
example, of what every situation is MEANT to be.
</div>

The holy instant is that place in which you abandon your independence
and join with the Holy Spirit or the Father, desiring to Know what the
truth is separate and apart from all of your best thinking and logic.
It&rsquo;s the aggressive, self-assertive thinker that you have been
abandoning its state of being&mdash;relaxing out of it, becoming still,
non-assertive, non-thinking and inquisitive instead with a true desire
to Know the truth.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The holy instant is nothing more than a special case, or an extreme
example, of what every situation is MEANT to be.
</div>

Whether it&rsquo;s a situation involving a Brother, a situation
involving a circumstance, a situation involving a garden, a river, a
piece of property, the a building of a house. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; every situation is MEANT to be &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; an experience of what Reality actually is right where you are.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The meaning which the Holy Spirit's purpose has given it is also given
to every situation.

The meaning which the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s purpose has given
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the holy instant &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is also given to every situation.
</div>

The purpose given to the holy instant never just hangs there, it&rsquo;s
always connected to something. It&rsquo;s always relevant to something.
And so the holy instant allowed and embraced, embraces real
relationships with real individuals and real relationships with pets,
real relationships with everything&mdash;animate or inanimate.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It calls forth just the same suspension of faithlessness, withheld and
left unused&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; now what again is the practice of faithlessness? The practice
of faithlessness is taking charge of things yourself by means of your
own authority and your own intelligence and your capacity to reason and
your ability to manipulate situations and people to your ends.
That&rsquo;s the practice of faithlessness because it involves no quiet
attention to God&mdash;no quiet attention to what Reality is according
to God&rsquo;s definition of It. And faithlessness is your preoccupation
with your definitions of It. You see?

So, the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s purpose &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; calls forth just the same suspension of faithlessness, withheld
and left unused, that faith might answer to the call of truth.
</div>

Now listen again:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It calls forth just the same suspension of faithlessness, withheld and
left unused&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; see, you can&rsquo;t just suspend faithlessness. It must be
withheld and left unused, else your withholding of it with an ace up
your sleeve is a barter&mdash;it is a means of being able to take
control again if it becomes necessary according to you.

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It calls forth just the same suspension of faithlessness withheld and
left unused&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; left unused, left never to be used again. You see? That&rsquo;s
unused. But if you leave it, if you withhold it but save it for further
use, you haven&rsquo;t left it unused. This is very important!

The holy Spirit&rsquo;s purpose &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; calls forth just the same suspension of faithlessness, withheld
and left unused, that faith might answer to the call of truth.
</div>

That the joining, the silence that you allow yourself to be in with a
truly purely enquiring mind &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; might answer to the call of truth. The holy instant is the
shining example&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; it&rsquo;s the shining example because it&rsquo;s so simple and
it&rsquo;s the only thing that works. There&rsquo;s nothing complicated
about it. Now that&rsquo;s love. When you have gone and done something
that goes against the experience of Reality, isn&rsquo;t it amazing that
the correction of that is so simple.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The holy instant is the shining example, the clear and unequivocal
demonstration of the meaning of every relationship and every situation,
seen as a WHOLE.
</div>

Does that make sense? When you&rsquo;re acting as an independent agent,
you are holding yourself apart from the whole, you&rsquo;re seeing
yourself separate from it and you&rsquo;re seeing all of it separate
from you. And most of the time it&rsquo;s us against them, me against
them or them against me.

But when you move into the holy instant and you abandon and leave
alone&mdash;never to use again&mdash;your independent authority, then
all the separation, the me and them vanishes and it becomes us. It
becomes an experience of wholeness. And it&rsquo;s only here in that
wholeness that, as we&rsquo;ve said, God&rsquo;s laws prevail. But
it&rsquo;s also only in this wholeness where the experience of
invulnerability, of utter unalterable safety, comes to view as a
permanent experience because it is an unalterable part of and nature of
Creation Itself.

It only seemed to become different when you chose to look at it through
independent eyes. And then you saw what was whole as though it were not.
And then you behaved as though what was whole was not. And when you
behave in Reality as though Reality is not what it is, but what you
determine it to be, why you&rsquo;re going to bump into Reality and
Reality is going to seem to be harsh and unkind to you. And you&rsquo;ll
say, &ldquo;That&rsquo;s the nature of life.&rdquo; And it&rsquo;s not.
But it is, if you insist on walking through Reality with blindfolds on,
with an intent not to see everything as it is. When you do that,
you&rsquo;re going to bump into Reality. Reality is going to be not what
you&rsquo;re expecting &hellip; pain, injury, damage &hellip; growing
lack of confidence in your perceptions and on and on.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Faith &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the quiet joining with the Father&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; has accepted every aspect of the situation&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; because it&rsquo;s an experience of infinite singularity.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Faith has accepted every aspect of the situation, and faithlessness has
not forced any exclusion on it.
</div>

So, if you&rsquo;re not forcing any exclusion upon Reality, you&rsquo;re
not in a state of denial where you&rsquo;re going to bump into Reality.
If you&rsquo;re accepting the whole and excluding none of it, then
you&rsquo;re in a state of what? I said, invulnerability, safety, and
you would have to say, peace.

When you abandon the last vestige of excluding some part of Reality and
calling it different from you, it&rsquo;s like letting out an infinite
sigh of relief. That alone should be reason for engaging in the holy
instant.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is a situation of perfect peace simply because you have let it be
what it IS.

This simple courtesy is all the Holy Spirit asks of you.
</div>

So, the conditions of forgiveness include this simple courtesy. And
again, what is this simple courtesy? It is that &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Faith has accepted every aspect of the situation, and faithlessness has
not forced any exclusion on it.
</div>

That&rsquo;s a beautiful definition of courtesy, isn&rsquo;t it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Do not intrude upon it, do not attack it, do not interrupt its coming.
</div>

What? Truth.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Let truth be what it is.
</div>

Let it register with you. Let the registering of it be the most
important thing to you. Because it&rsquo;s the most intelligent thing to
do, it&rsquo;s intelligent to want to Know the truth. And it&rsquo;s
unintelligent to want to be confused by misperceptions, by lies&mdash;by
that which isn&rsquo;t true.

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Let truth be what it is. Do not intrude upon it, do not attack it, do
not interrupt its coming. Let it encompass every situation, and bring
you peace. Not even faith is asked of you, for truth asks nothing.
</div>

Now this means here, faith&mdash;like confidence. You don&rsquo;t have
to have confidence in truth.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Not even faith is asked of you, for truth asks nothing.
</div>

Listen:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Let it enter, and it will call forth and SECURE for you the faith you
need for peace.
</div>

So truth is not some intellectual precept or statement that&rsquo;s
un-contradictable. Truth is an active Presence.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Let it enter, and it will call forth and SECURE for you the faith you
need for peace.
</div>

&ldquo;Ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you
free.&rdquo; [^2] Ye shall let the truth in so that it registers with you
and it will make you free. It will clarify as an act of love what is
true so that you become unconfused and sanity returns.

Now, it takes faith in the sense of your practicing the
two-step&mdash;the holy instant. It takes the faith that constitutes
silencing your will and joining with the Father to gather information
about Reality from Him so that the true perspective may replace your
misunderstandings or your misconstructions, your misidentifying what
Reality is.

Truth changes you by making clear what isn&rsquo;t true and rendering it
valueless so that it holds no interest for you any longer. Truth does
that when you practice faith&mdash;not in it&mdash;but in silencing your
human will and asking the Father, what is the truth. That you must do.
That practice of faith you must engage in. When the Father or the Holy
Spirit responds, it in-fills you with understanding: with Knowing that
is unquestionable, clear, satisfying and pacifying. It&rsquo;s that
simple.

Let truth &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; enter, and it will call forth and SECURE for you the faith you
need for peace. But rise you not against it, for against your opposition
it CANNOT come.
</div>

You can&rsquo;t change it. You can&rsquo;t alter it. You can&rsquo;t
make it disappear. But you can withdraw your attention from it totally.
It still doesn&rsquo;t stop governing you. But its governance often is
experienced as uncomfortable because it moves you in the direction of
your sanity when you are intent upon enjoying the fascination and
excitement of being insane for awhile.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Would you not WANT to make a holy instant of every situation? For such
is the gift of faith, freely given wherever &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; once again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; faithlessness is laid aside, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; unused.
</div>

No backup plan. No ace up your sleeve. Abandoned.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And then the power of the Holy Spirit's purpose is free to use instead.
</div>

When the Holy Spirit&mdash;that which is nothing more than your right
Mind&mdash;reveals to you what is true, you can&rsquo;t help but avail
yourself of it, you can&rsquo;t help but stand with it, you can&rsquo;t
help but hold it unswervingly because it doesn&rsquo;t make sense to do
anything else any longer.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This power INSTANTLY transforms all situations into one sure and
continuous means for establishing His purpose, and demonstrating its
reality.
</div>

Yeah, everything gets done for you. Truth comes in and reveals Itself
and changes you. The Holy Spirit&rsquo;s Purpose comes in and transforms
all situations into one sure and continuous means for establishing His
Purpose and demonstrating its Reality.

Now the only reason none of you avail yourself of that is because you
think it&rsquo;s much more valuable, valid and interesting and
worthwhile to engage in doing your own thinking and overcoming the
obstacles which you encounter because you&rsquo;re bumping into Reality,
because you&rsquo;re not seeing It and cooperating with It and flowing
with It and relating to It in normal harmonious ways.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What has been demonstrated has called for faith, and has been GIVEN it.
</div>

If you&rsquo;ve done the two-step. If you&rsquo;ve listened genuinely.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Now it becomes a fact, from which faith can no longer BE withheld.
</div>

You see? The insight, the understanding, the revelation comes. And
it&rsquo;s so clear that you can no longer withhold your faith in it,
your grasp of it. You can no longer be tentative about embracing it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The strain of refusing faith to truth is enormous, and far greater than
you realize. But to answer truth with faith entails no strain at all.
</div>

No, it doesn&rsquo;t. But the strain is invigorating. You&rsquo;re used
to it. You love challenges. You think you&rsquo;re here to overcome
challenges. So what would it mean to be here with no strain at all?

Well, it must mean something &hellip; the equivalent of dying. You know,
I mean no purpose left to life, just &hellip; you know, literally
wouldn&rsquo;t the idea of sitting on a pink cloud forever be as
horrible as lying in a casket forever?&mdash;different environment, same
meaninglessness. And that&rsquo;s not what it&rsquo;s about.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To you who have acknowledged the call of your Redeemer, the strain of
not responding to His call seems to be greater than before.
</div>

Now, this is a very important point: Who is your Redeemer? You might
read this and think that it is referring to the Christ&mdash;to me.
&ldquo;I know that my Redeemer liveth.&rdquo;[^3] But that&rsquo;s not what
this is referring to.

Who is your Redeemer? Your Brother, the one sitting next to you, the one
sitting across from you, the one you had the fight with, the one you
made love to.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To you who have acknowledged the call of your Redeemer&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the one whose eyes you&rsquo;re going to look into, and as a
result of looking into it with true care, recognizing the Father. And in
recognizing the Father, Waking up yourself. Your Brother is your
Redeemer as a result of your loving Him enough to look at Him with
innocent eyes instead of your preconceptions. And in the innocence of
your vision, being able to see the Father radiant in your Brother or
Sister&mdash;your Redeemer. So let&rsquo;s listen:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To you who have acknowledged the call of your Redeemer, the strain of
not responding to His call seems to be greater than before.
</div>

Why? Well, because before you didn&rsquo;t know your Brother was your
Redeemer, He was just the bastard you had to deal with every day in
order to get on with life &hellip; right? But when you know that
He&rsquo;s your Redeemer, when you understand what I&rsquo;ve been
sharing with you, it becomes impossible to look at Him and engage in
mean-spirited, independent projection and not feel guilty and not know
that you&rsquo;re missing the mark because you&rsquo;re not engaging in
your function. So now it becomes more difficult to hate your Brother or
to think the worst of Him or to jump to false conclusions about Him,
with justification.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To you who have acknowledged the call of your Redeemer&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; let&rsquo;s say, seen the value of your Brother &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the strain of not responding to His call seems to be greater
than before. This is not so. Before, the strain was there but you
attributed it to something else, believing that the "something else"
produced it.
</div>

The simplest way I can put it is: You looked at your Brother and you saw
Him for what you thought He was, and you believed your belief, and you
blamed Him for your problem instead of blaming your faithlessness.

In both meanings relative to your Brother: One meaning is, you lacked
faith in Him&mdash;you expected the worst. The other meaning, that
you&rsquo;re engaging in thinking as though you were responsible for
your safety and your well-being that held your Brother in a hostage
position as an enemy, which He could do nothing about until you changed
your mind. Those are the two kinds of faithlessness.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Before, the strain was there but you attributed it to something else,
believing that the "something else" produced it. This was NEVER true.
For what the "something else" produced was sorrow and depression,
sickness and pain&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; well, what is it that produces this? Independent
thinking&mdash;independence itself. Because the minute you claimed
independence from your Father you brought guilt and fear inexorably into
the picture, to remain there until you abandoned the divorce.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For what the "something else" produced was sorrow and depression,
sickness and pain, darkness and dim imaginings of terror, cold fantasies
of fear and fiery dreams of hell. And it was nothing but the intolerable
strain of &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; refusing to give faith to truth, and see its evident reality.
</div>

Your failure &hellip; your refusing to give faith to truth is your
insistence upon practicing faithlessness, which causes you not to see
the evident Reality of truth.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Such was the crucifixion of the Son of God.
</div>

Again, you could think that this was referring to me, to the Christ. But
no, it&rsquo;s to your Brother.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Such was the crucifixion of the Son of God. His faithlessness did this
to him.
</div>

Your brother&rsquo;s faithlessness put him in the position of being a
suffering, miserable entity, whose behavior toward you arose out of that
mindset&mdash;out of that experience.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Such was the crucifixion of the Son of God. His faithlessness did this
to him. Think carefully before you let yourself use faithlessness
against him.
</div>

It&rsquo;s the blind leading the blind and both falling into a ditch. It
can&rsquo;t be avoided. There&rsquo;s no good to come from it.
It&rsquo;s an absolutely total waste of time, ineffective in any
constructive way.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Think carefully before you let yourself use faithlessness against
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your Brother, whose faithlessness has caused him to be in
misery and behave in a way that is a call for Love. Simple.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Think carefully before you let yourself use faithlessness against him.
For he is risen, and you have accepted the cause of his awakening as
yours.
</div>

If you do not practice faithlessness here, relative to your Brother, but
you practice faith and you join your Brother with the vision that is
provided to you by the Holy Spirit as the revealing of truth&mdash;as
revelation&mdash;then your Brother will be seen as whole, as risen, as
the Christ, as that one whose utter divinity is so clear to you that it
reveals your divinity to you spontaneously as well.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For he is risen, and you have accepted the cause of his awakening as
yours.
</div>

What you give you get to keep. And what you get to keep is a
realization&mdash;a revelation&mdash;that comes as a result of being a
Brother, actively, so that in your experience of Him you see God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have assumed your part in his redemption, and you are now &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; uh-oh &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; fully responsible to him.
</div>

Here&rsquo;s that involvement thing again. Why wouldn&rsquo;t you be
fully responsible to Him? Why wouldn&rsquo;t you let yourself be fully
responsible to your Brother? Do not let any part of what He is be
excluded from Him in your mind, and not to let Him in anyway be excluded
from you. Why would you not want to constantly be fully responsible for
being the presence of Love that introduces no dissonance or in-harmony
and is uplifting and fulfilling to your Brother or any situation. You
see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Fail him not now&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; it&rsquo;s a bad time [chuckles] &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Fail him not now, for it has been given you to realize what your lack of
faith in him must mean to YOU.
</div>

Now you might say, &ldquo;Wow, then if I&rsquo;m going to love my
Brother because of what not loving him is going to do to me, then
really, I&rsquo;m not doing it for my Brother, I&rsquo;m doing it for
myself because I don&rsquo;t want to suffer.&rdquo; Yeah, that would be
a good way of &ldquo;mind-f&rsquo;ing&rdquo; yourself into delay, delay
in embracing your Brother.

You&rsquo;ve got to realize that you&rsquo;re not going to Wake up until
your Brother is important enough to you to dare to look in His eyes and
see something that you haven&rsquo;t believed was there&mdash;the
Father, God. Not doing that is going to have an effect on you. But you
know what? It&rsquo;s your nature to love him. And it&rsquo;s your
nature to see him as he truly Is. So when you&rsquo;re asking for the
Father&rsquo;s Perspective, you&rsquo;re asking to be returned to your
nature, your natural Perspective &hellip; your sanity. That&rsquo;s just
the way it is.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
His salvation IS your only purpose. See only this in every situation,
and it will be a means for BRINGING only this.
</div>

Well, we could say this is another condition of forgiveness.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
See only this in every situation, and it will be a means for BRINGING
only this.

When you accepted truth as the goal for your relationship&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; if you did, and this experience was had, that we&rsquo;ve been
talking about &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you became givers of peace &hellip;

When you accepted truth as the goal for your relationship, you became
givers of peace as surely as your Father gave peace to you. For the goal
of peace cannot be accepted apart from its conditions&hellip;
</div>

One of the conditions is the practice of faith that has accepted every
aspect of the situation and faithlessness has not forced any exclusion
on it. That&rsquo;s one of the conditions of peace. It&rsquo;s a
courtesy.

Recognizing that your Brother or Sister is your Redeemer is another
condition of forgiveness. If you don&rsquo;t see that, you will not be
curious enough to look into your Brother&rsquo;s eyes and see something
different from what you believed was there. And that will deprive you of
being able to recognize yourself in a new way, because of the way you
treated your Brother. And that&rsquo;s one of the conditions of
forgiveness.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[For] the goal of peace cannot be accepted apart from its conditions,
and you HAD faith in it&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; if you did what we&rsquo;ve talked about and you had the
insight and the revelation&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you HAD faith in it, for no-one accepts what he does not
believe is real.
</div>

Nobody even looks for what he does not believe is real. Unfortunately
you look for sin, disease and death. You look for a life of a certain
number of years and you die and that&rsquo;s the way it is. That&rsquo;s
what you believe. That&rsquo;s what you have faith in.

It&rsquo;s hard to accept that you&rsquo;re the Christ. It&rsquo;s hard
to accept that you&rsquo;re the holy Son or Daughter of God. It&rsquo;s
hard for you to believe that there can be instantaneous healing.
It&rsquo;s hard for you to believe that lost limbs or lost organs can
reappear. It&rsquo;s hard for you to believe that there&rsquo;s really
anything you can do other than practice positive thinking in order to
have any sense of peace in this conflicted world. It&rsquo;s hard to
believe these things, so you don&rsquo;t bother. You stick to what you
believe is true, what you believe is real.

And everything I&rsquo;m doing is encouraging you to believe what is
Real, but what is different from your current definitions, so that you
might free yourself from these current definitions that you have made
up, that are binding you, but which do not represent truth and which no
longer have to bind you because you are the holy Son of God, the holy
Daughter of God and that Birthright cannot be taken away from you and
therefore, hasn&rsquo;t.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your purpose has not changed, and will not change, for you accepted what
can NEVER change.
</div>

When you practiced the holy instant and your mind was changed by truth
entering by its own volition because of what it is and because you
didn&rsquo;t object to it. The key thing: You didn&rsquo;t object to it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your purpose has not changed, and will not change, for you accepted what
can NEVER change. And nothing that it needs to be forever changeless can
you now withhold from it.
</div>

That&rsquo;s what you can anticipate. When truth becomes clear, you
simply cannot abandon it again. Oh yeah, you probably could find
someone, another Brother, who would be willing to join you in fantasy
but with the experience you&rsquo;ve had you won&rsquo;t be willing to
do it. That&rsquo;s a promise.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[And] nothing that it needs to be forever changeless can you now
withhold from it. Your release is certain. Give as you have received.
And demonstrate that you have risen far beyond ANY situation that could
hold you back, and keep you separate from Him Whose call you answered.
</div>

Your Brother &hellip; your Brother is calling you all the time &hellip;
calling to you all the time. Your Brother, like you, is suffering, in
that your days are not free of tension. Your days are not free of
concern. Your days are not free of misunderstandings that have to be
corrected and cause tension and stress. Your days are not filled with an
experience of a world that is at peace.

So acknowledge this to be the truth, so that you might engage in the
conditions for forgiveness and hasten your Awakening.

And again, as I mentioned last week, this means getting involved with
your Brothers and Sisters&mdash;not with ideas and theories. And in your
very human connections with your Brothers and Sisters, bring the Father
into the picture. How? Change the way you&rsquo;re dealing with your
Brother. Because how you&rsquo;re going to bring the Father into the
picture is by looking into your Brother&rsquo;s eyes and finding Him
appearing there, causing you to be involved in a complete change of
mind, a complete revamping of your perception of your Brother and the
feelings you have about your Brother, together with what you&rsquo;re
going to find is the evaporating of arrogance in you on your part.
Because it&rsquo;s only if that disappears that equality, oneness,
wholeness without any exclusion occurs. One of The Conditions Of
Forgiveness.

I love you, I love you, I love you, I love you, I love you and everyone
who is listening or watching I love you. And I look forward to being
with you next time.

[^1]: T17.8 The Conditions of Forgiveness
[^2]: John 8:32
[^3]: Job 19:25

