---
title: Nov 13, 2011
ref: "T18 The Dream and the Reality"
alink: "/acim/text/18/chap1800/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

We&rsquo;ve, of course, been talking about the two-step, the holy
instant. And we&rsquo;ve been talking about practicing it on
purpose&mdash;practicing it consciously. But sometimes the holy instant
is entered into, I&rsquo;m going to say, involuntarily or the two-step
is practiced involuntarily.

In some ways this is where the greatest learning about the holy instant
can be gained. It happens when you, due to whatever circumstances are
facing you, arrive at a point of overwhelm and you experience this
overwhelm and the fear associated with it long enough to become
literally exhausted by it. And there comes a point where involuntarily
you collapse, in so many words, you lose faith in yourself and you let
go&mdash;you can&rsquo;t hang on anymore.

Now if this is genuine, you find yourself immediately not in a place of
depression or grief, but of peace. If it is in-genuine, if the collapse
is a ploy, if it&rsquo;s part of your repertoire of being in control,
then there won&rsquo;t be peace, there will be anger. And your collapse
will be an expression of your anger.

And that doesn&rsquo;t constitute a holy instant. It doesn&rsquo;t
constitute the practice of the two-step. And therefore, the blessing of
the holy instant for you, is non-existent&mdash;it escapes you.

None of you realizes the incredible value and, I&rsquo;m going to say,
power of peace. Of course, when you practice the holy instant or the
two-step, you do indeed shut up, don&rsquo;t you. That&rsquo;s the first
step of the two-steps. And then in the silence you reach out beyond
yourself&mdash;beyond that in you which you have faith in, confidence
in. And you reach out to that which, at the present you have very little
confidence in, especially if you&rsquo;re in a state of stress. When you
shut up&mdash;first part of the two-step&mdash;reach out to the Father
or the Holy Spirit desiring to be refreshed, to be in-filled with what
the truth is&mdash;the truth that heals, the truth that transforms,
regenerates and redeems.

I&rsquo;m bringing this out because the solution to the human condition,
which is a state of fear, lies in something as simple as choosing for
peace even though fear seems to be justified.

The simplicity of this has to register with you in order for you to dare
to reach for your peace &hellip; or relax into your peace when threat
seems to be occurring.

Now, you look at your world every day nowadays, no matter where you are
on the globe, no matter what your nationality, no matter what country
you live in and identify with and there seems to be great justification
for fear. There seems to be quite a great deal of upset, of turmoil, of
dissonance. And the threat doesn&rsquo;t just come from your locale, the
threat can be on the other side of the globe, something happening there
can upset the balance where you are.

And so, even if, let&rsquo;s say, you&rsquo;re doing all the right
things, it would seem that turmoil could arrive and destroy because of
something happening half way around the globe.

So you&rsquo;re finding yourselves confronted with the call for peace
constantly. You&rsquo;re being faced with the call to silence your mind,
silence the fear, silence the rhetoric that upsets and agonizes and
creates greater and greater distress.

Now I&rsquo;m going to tell you something: There&rsquo;s a reason for
all of the, well, shall I call it &ldquo;chemicalization&rdquo; that is
going on around the globe &hellip; all of the rather fundamental
disturbances: Lack of order, lack of morality, lack of peace, lack of
intelligence. There&rsquo;s a reason for it.

I&rsquo;ve used the example in the past, where if you lived in a house
that was completely dark, furnished and you had learned as though you
were a blind person, how to function in that house&mdash;feed yourself,
bathe yourself, live, remain healthy. But let&rsquo;s say, that one day
illumination begins to occur &hellip; and slowly you can begin to make
out the barest shapes and shadows. And as it increases, you see clutter,
you see mess, you see cleaning that needs to be done.

As this wonderful thing called illumination or light comes forth, it
seems to be a cause of distress rather than a cause of pleasure for you.
It&rsquo;s as though you would rather not be able to see, than to see
what you&rsquo;re seeing. You&rsquo;re faced with a job. You&rsquo;re
faced with cleanup. You&rsquo;re faced with, let&rsquo;s say, a level of
organization and order that you had never been aware of before because
you couldn&rsquo;t see disorder.

Now, in this turmoil that is occurring on your globe&mdash;dirt,
disorder, immorality that had been hidden in the dark, economic
imbalance, the means by which you humans act inhumanely toward each
other&mdash;is becoming clearer and clearer. And of course, in the
process it&rsquo;s calling forth a change so that greater humanity is
brought into the picture. That&rsquo;s the point.

But you could say, the world is going to pot. You could say that the
world is on the decline and that collapse in every way could occur. And
the peace and the joy and the harmony that you have enjoyed for many
years will be irreparably destroyed.

But that&rsquo;s not the nature of Awakening. That&rsquo;s not the
nature of this crazy call for becoming more conscious and coming back
into your right Mind and discovering what it is that is the one simple
thing that will correct it all. That&rsquo;s why I&rsquo;m bringing up
that the one simple thing arises out of fundamental peace.

And fundamental peace is something you can experience involuntarily and
ruggedly by failing so completely at being competent yourself, that you
give up on it, knowing for a certainty you think that everything about
you and everything that is meaningful will collapse and your
worthlessness will shine forth and the purpose for being will be gone.

But that&rsquo;s not what happens. And those of you who have experienced
the blessing of having abandoned your supposed capacity to be
successfully in charge understand what I&rsquo;m saying. You have an
experience, which you are capable of sharing with your Brothers and
Sisters during these coming times as an effective way of meeting the
call that&rsquo;s coming forth. But also as a means of encouraging those
who are studying A Course In Miracles to understand what the simple
steps are no matter how complex the Course seems to be.

And this is important.

This is a time of transition. This is a time of transformation.
It&rsquo;s a time actually of regeneration. If you will get into your
peace and observe what&rsquo;s happening from there and listen for what
the answer is from there, it will be a time of regeneration. Even if you
don&rsquo;t do that, it&rsquo;s just that the regeneration will be
involuntary and you will say that it&rsquo;s rugged.

So I am encouraging you not to misinterpret what is happening. And
don&rsquo;t let your egos fly off the handle self-righteously pointing
the finger at what everyone is doing and what insanity there is and what
lack of love there is. As I said last week, when you engage in that,
what&rsquo;s the script you&rsquo;re using? And how can you expect your
world to reflect something different from the script you are utilizing
to keep a feeling of stability and to keep a feeling of power which you
are going to have to release if indeed Reality and your sanity are to
come to the fore in you so that you see things differently, behave
differently and reflect the truth more completely.

Oh-h, don&rsquo;t say, &ldquo;I know I&rsquo;m not going to be able to
do it.&rdquo; Don&rsquo;t say, &ldquo;Oh, Raj, why did you have to tell
me this? I half-way was looking forward to the coming year. I half-way
was looking forward to getting past the next election in the United
States. I was half-way positively oriented!&rdquo;

Well, there&rsquo;s a ploy for you &hellip; there&rsquo;s a script for
you. And there is a means of attempting to hold on to control&mdash;your
definition of control&mdash;which is being used for your definition of
success which means not having to give up, not having to succumb to your
incapacity to be anything on your own and yield to the Father, yield
into the peace of your Being which is the omnipotence and omnipresence
of God…in…you.

Don&rsquo;t fuss and fume about what you have to do. Don&rsquo;t fuss
and fume about what everyone else has to do but probably won&rsquo;t do.
Because that takes much more energy than the decision to become still,
to silence your human will, to stop talking to yourself and start asking
a question of Something other than yourself.

This is the simple means of Awakening. Why not engage in it instead of
all the other folderol? Why not engage in it instead of indulging in
reaction, whether it&rsquo;s self-righteousness or fear when you observe
the world and what&rsquo;s happening. I&rsquo;m here to remind you that
that&rsquo;s all it takes. To discourage you from attempting to do more
than it takes especially when doing more than it takes creates the
experience of illusion in the first place which you are suffering from
and which it&rsquo;s your Birthright to be Waking up from.

Be with that for a moment &hellip;

Be with the simplicity of it and wonder why you don&rsquo;t avail
yourself of it. Wonder why you keep forgetting that that&rsquo;s all it
takes and then engage on all of the convoluted means you use to exercise
control and provide yourself with a certain sense of safety.

Let&rsquo;s go into the book.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Nothing can come between what God has joined and what the Holy Spirit
sees as one.[^1]
</div>

Simple.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
But everything SEEMS to come between the fragmented relationships the
ego sponsors to destroy.
</div>

Now, of course, the key word there is &lsquo;&rsquo;SEEMS.&rsquo;&rsquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
But everything SEEMS &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; doesn&rsquo;t actually &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; SEEMS to come between the fragmented relationships the ego
sponsors to destroy.
</div>

Now I encourage you to engage a new habit. When statements like this are
made as you read, I want you to add a sentence &hellip; here it says:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; everything SEEMS to come between the fragmented relationships
the ego sponsors to destroy [But it hasn&rsquo;t succeeded.]
</div>

That brings the point home.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; everything SEEMS to come between the fragmented relationships
the ego sponsors to destroy [But it hasn&rsquo;t happened.]

The one emotion in which substitution is impossible is love. Fear
involves substitution by definition, for it is love&rsquo;s replacement.
Fear is both a fragmented and a fragmenting emotion. It seems to take
many forms, and each seems to require a different form of acting out for
satisfaction. While this appears to introduce quite variable behavior, a
far more serious effect lies in the fragmented perception from which the
behavior stems. No-one is SEEN COMPLETE. The body is emphasized, with
special emphasis on certain parts, and used as the standard for
comparison for either acceptance or rejection of suitability for acting
out a special form of fear.
</div>

Fear embodied. Fear felt by you and believed becomes a tool you use to
control.

&ldquo;Oh, he has slanted eyes.&rdquo; &ldquo;Oh, she has very black
course hair.&rdquo;

You have many means that you use to distance yourself, separate yourself
from and see yourself as different from others. And why do you do it?
You do it because you&rsquo;re afraid. You do it because you&rsquo;re
not in your peace. And so you use certain characteristics of another to
control your behavior to keep you safe and to keep &ldquo;them&rdquo; in
their place.

The next section is entitled:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*SUBSTITUTION AS A DEFENSE*

You who believe that God is fear made but one substitution. It has taken
many forms, because it was the substitution of &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; illusion for truth; of fragmentation for wholeness. It has
become so splintered and subdivided and divided again, over and over,
that it is now almost impossible to perceive it once was one, and still
is what it was.
</div>

Now there, the last part of the sentence I said you could add, is in the
book.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It has become so splintered and subdivided and divided again, over and
over, that it is now almost impossible to perceive it once was
one&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; it could have ended there but it didn&rsquo;t &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and still is what it was.
</div>

You see? The substitution hasn&rsquo;t been successful. The replacement
hasn&rsquo;t been successful. The reason for employing substitution has
not been validated and you are still innocent of attempting to deny,
successfully, God and thus be offensive, thus be guilty. This is
important: That one error that you substituted illusion for truth.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
That one error which brought truth to illusion, infinity to time, and
life to death, was all you ever made. Your whole world rests upon it.
Everything you see reflects it, and every special relationship which you
have ever made is part of it.
</div>

Now mind you, all the complexities that are going on in the world today
that seem to be fearful, that seem to be alarming, that deprive you of
your peace, do not represent the truth and they do not constitute
success on the part of mankind at creating something God didn&rsquo;t
make. You have created the illusion and the distress that accompanies
the illusion. But you haven&rsquo;t changed what is Real in the
slightest. And although you have all of these complexities that seem to
need to be straightened out, the correction of them lies in one thing:
Choosing for your peace &hellip; engaging in the two-step &hellip;
shutting up &hellip; moving into the silence, and then reaching out,
desiring to know the truth that it&rsquo;s your Birthright to be
experiencing.

Because although you seem to have succeeded in distracting yourself from
your conscious awareness of truth through the use of your imagination
and your commitment to your beliefs, you haven&rsquo;t stopped Knowing
the truth and you haven&rsquo;t stopped being the visibility and
tangibility of God. And your mind hasn&rsquo;t stopped being the full
presence of the Holy Spirit. It just hasn&rsquo;t happened. Because it
hasn&rsquo;t happened, all that is involved in abandoning the dream is
to shift your attention.

I make it sound very simple. I make it sound too simple. If it was that
simple, everyone would have Woken up. No. And the only reason everyone
hasn&rsquo;t Woken up is because there is such an addiction to the
&ldquo;hit&rdquo; or the &ldquo;high&rdquo; of going for independence
and hopefully succeeding because you believe it&rsquo;s possible and
your belief is where you put your trust.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have expressed surprise at hearing how very different is reality
from what you see. You do not realize the magnitude of that one error
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; substituting illusion for truth.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It was so vast and so completely incredible that from it a world of
total unreality HAD to emerge. What else COULD come of it?
</div>

We&rsquo;ve talked about this differently in the past few weeks. When
you chose to get a divorce from your Father and abandon His
Perspective&mdash;which was yours by Birthright&mdash;and you said,
&ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;d rather make decisions myself, I&rsquo;d rather
define what everything is myself,&rdquo; you had to define it as
something different from God. That which is different from God is that
which is unlike God. It&rsquo;s a polarity.

And so, as long as you do this, you&rsquo;re introducing dissonance in
omnipotence and omniscience&mdash;absolutely singular infinite harmony.

Now you didn&rsquo;t actually succeed. The dissonance you&rsquo;re
experiencing is an illusion. But you have a lot of faith in it and no
one tells you consistently that, well, you&rsquo;re engaging in
imagination, which can have no actual result, except that while
you&rsquo;re trying to achieve that result you are insane, you&rsquo;re
not in your right Mind, you can&rsquo;t experience your peace.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Its fragmented aspects are fearful enough, as you begin to look at them.
But nothing you have seen begins to show you the enormity of the
original error, which seemed to cast you out of Heaven, to shatter
knowledge into meaningless bits of disunited perceptions, and to force
you to further substitutions.
</div>

Now, you are watching in the world today further substitutions
crumbling. You are watching clarity as to what doesn&rsquo;t work, as
well as to what is needed, crystallizing right where you can see them,
right where you can feel them, unless you&rsquo;re holding out a little
bit longer to find an effective way to control all of this without
having to change it and getting it to be less scary, less threatening.

You know what? It is being more difficult for every one of you to look
at all of this and fool yourselves into thinking that the answer is
going to come from the same place all the previous answers have come
from. And this is wonderful. You&rsquo;re getting tired of suffering.
You&rsquo;re getting tired of being afraid. And now it looks as though
the cause for fear can be so completely out of your control that
there&rsquo;s just no hope. And it&rsquo;s not true, because the
practice of the holy instant is still the answer.

Seek your peace. Value sanity enough to dare to abandon your reactions,
to dare to abandon your fear and give up without things getting really
bad, so that your giving up is involuntary.

Now, don&rsquo;t get me wrong, I&rsquo;m not saying, &ldquo;you better
do this because unknown to you things are going to be getting so bad
that you will involuntarily practice the two-step and it will be
rugged.&rdquo; No. You are observing a natural movement of
reconfiguration, the result of which will be order, I&rsquo;m going to
say, order of a higher magnitude. And part of it is going to come from
choices you and others on your globe make for abandoning self-serving
interests, selfishness and reaching beyond your normal avenues of being
aware, so that in the absence of your exercise of what doesn&rsquo;t
work, what does work will simply become obvious to you as a natural
progression, if I may put it that way, or as a natural undoing of
everything that was put into place that confused everything, so that
clarity naturally comes forth.

Substitutions of illusions for truth:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
That was the first projection of error outward. The world arose to hide
it, and became the screen on which it was projected and drawn between
you and the truth.

The world arose to hide it&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what world? The world of your definitions arose to hide
Reality, to hide the Kingdom of Heaven &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and [it] became &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your definitions &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; became the screen on which it was projected and drawn between
you and the truth.
</div>

And here&rsquo;s the additional sentence: But it didn&rsquo;t actually
succeed.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For truth extends INWARD, where the idea of loss is meaningless&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; when you go into the holy place in you&mdash;the
altar&mdash;which is in the center of your Being, and you ask the Holy
Spirit, you ask the Father, &ldquo;What is the truth here?&rdquo; you
are engaging in the undoing of confusion, inharmony, fear.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; truth extends INWARD, where the idea of loss is meaningless,
and only increase is conceivable. Do you really think it strange that a
world in which everything is backwards and upside-down arose from this?
</div>

Should be no surprise there. The script that&rsquo;s being used denies
truth and therefore, chaos, confusion, inharmony is the only thing left
to experience.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For truth brought to THIS could only remain within in quiet, and take no
part in all the mad projection by which this world was made.

For truth brought to THIS could only remain within in
quiet&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that&rsquo;s why peace is so important. That&rsquo;s why
choosing for your peace is so important. That&rsquo;s why shutting up
and asking, &ldquo;What is the truth here?&rdquo; within, is the only
way out of the illusion. Because it&rsquo;s in the quiet that truth
quietly awaits you &hellip; quietly awaits you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Call it not sin but madness&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what? The substitution of illusion for truth.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; for such it was, and so it still remains. Invest it not with
guilt&hellip;
</div>

and I will say, invest it not with fear. Invest it not with any
definitions or meanings you come up with &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; for guilt implies it was accomplished in reality.
</div>

You see? And you can add: but it was not. You see? In every paragraph
you will find a confirmation of the fact that delusion hasn&rsquo;t been
successful and therefore, you are not in danger, therefore, you are not
guilty, irreparably damned because of having succeeded at doing the
impossible. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you seem to see some twisted form of the original error &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; substituting illusion for truth &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; [rise] to frighten you, say only, "God is not fear, but love,"
and it will disappear.
</div>

There&rsquo;s a call &hellip; a call that has always been present, but a
call that is more pointed in the present, for you to look at the world
and judge it truly, which means judge it after you have silenced your
definition-making-mechanism and having asked, &ldquo;Father, what is the
truth here?&rdquo; Because it&rsquo;s the God&rsquo;s honest truth that
is the only thing you want to know. Because there is transformation,
reconfiguration and redemption occurring now, here, to be embraced for
what it is instead of resisted for what it isn&rsquo;t. And it&rsquo;s
your task to find the experience of it through peace instead of
reaction, through love instead of through fear.

Again, and I&rsquo;m not going to yell it out, but peace is the answer.
And finding your peace is something that every single one of you is
capable of if you choose to. I am saying, be novel and choose to do it.
Be irrational in other&rsquo;s eyes and choose to do it, because
it&rsquo;s the answer.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The truth will SAVE you. It has not left you, to go out into the mad
world and so depart from you. Inward is sanity; insanity is OUTSIDE you.
You but BELIEVE it is the other way; that truth is outside, and error
and guilt within.
</div>

If that were not true, you would look out there and you would recognize
what was going on as insanity and not something to base your conclusions
on, not something to base your logic and your means of gaining control
on.

You&rsquo;ve got to stop making what&rsquo;s going on out there your
god, whether it&rsquo;s people behaving badly, aggressively,
threateningly, whether they are pleased with you or upset with you.
Don&rsquo;t make gods of things out there and then govern yourselves
according to the definitions you&rsquo;ve made.

&ldquo;Oh, if I do this no one will respect me, so I will not do
it!&rdquo; Wow, quite a script! In other words, you&rsquo;re saying,
&ldquo;I&rsquo;m going to abandon my integrity because if I engage in it
somebody may get upset at me and I don&rsquo;t know if I can take it
because what they think of me is the only thing that is important to me
&hellip; whether they respect me or not. Whether they respect me
determines whether I&rsquo;m real.&rdquo; You see?

&ldquo;They…they…they…determine whether I am real.&rdquo; It&rsquo;s not
true. And that&rsquo;s just one of the many idiotic forms that fear
takes as a substitute for knowing the truth and governing you in a
manner that keeps you in that dark room, where the light hasn&rsquo;t
shone yet and there&rsquo;s dust all over the place and there is mess to
clean up. But you&rsquo;re not bothered, because you can&rsquo;t see it
and you don&rsquo;t even know that it&rsquo;s your Birthright to be
seeing it and clean it up! And have an entirely new and different
experience of wonder and of beauty and of order and of intelligence and
on and on.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You but BELIEVE it is the other way; that truth is outside&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your God is outside, that which you should base your best
judgments on is out there in what all those crazy people are doing and
believing and seeing when they look at you. Uh-oh &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your little, senseless substitutions, touched with insanity and swirling
lightly off on a mad course like feathers dancing insanely in the wind,
have NO substance.
</div>

But tell me, isn&rsquo;t that much the way you feel when you watch the
news and join in with the reaction and then be distressed and unable to
sleep at night?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
They fuse &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the feathers dancing insanely in the wind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
They fuse and merge and separate, in shifting and totally meaningless
patterns which need not &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; be judged at all.
</div>

They don&rsquo;t require a response from you &hellip; they do not
require a response from you. But Something when you go within and
practice the two-step and the holy instant will call upon you for
something. And what you are called upon to do and be from there will be
transformational.

I tell you, as long as those in your world know that you think that
they&rsquo;re God and that you are willing to base everything you do on
them, they will take control of you and keep control of you just as you
take hold of them and keep control of them.

So:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
They fuse and merge and separate, in shifting and totally meaningless
patterns which need not be judged at all.
</div>

Doesn&rsquo;t matter how much of a show the spinning around is &hellip;
doesn&rsquo;t matter how incredibly complex it is, they require no
response from you. You can say, &ldquo;I have no response to
that.&rdquo; That&rsquo;s what&rsquo;s called for, &ldquo;I have no
response to that.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To judge them individually &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; each little feather, each little sparkle of dust that&rsquo;s
spinning around in the sunlight, you know &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To judge them individually is pointless. Their tiny differences in form
are no real differences at all. NONE of them matters. THAT they have in
common, and nothing else. Yet what else is NECESSARY to make them all
the same?
</div>

You need to find that they&rsquo;re all the same. It doesn&rsquo;t
matter what&rsquo;s happening on Wall Street, it doesn&rsquo;t matter
what&rsquo;s happening in the clearing houses and the banks, it
doesn&rsquo;t matter what governments are doing. These are not the
things to be governing the use of your mind by. You&rsquo;re here to be
that which brings sanity into the picture because you haven&rsquo;t
based your actions and reactions on gods out there.

Transformation, regeneration, redemption &hellip; this Movement that is
inevitably and actually happening is to be participated with consciously
by not attempting to control it, but by learning what it is through
listening, through becoming humble enough to let truth dawn on you so
that you might behave in ways that promote the transformation,
regeneration and redemption without eliciting resistance and fear.
Resistance and fear will never be elicited when you are not engaged in
controlling, period.

Every single one of you resists being controlled. You can&rsquo;t stand
it, but you know it&rsquo;s the only way you can create so-called
satisfactory situations with your Brothers and Sisters. And so
you&rsquo;re conflicted because you believe in using what you
don&rsquo;t want used on you. Well, it becomes a complex chess game
where you calculate what the fifth move down is going to be so that you
can remain safe.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Let them all go, dancing in the wind, dipping and turning till they
disappear from sight, far, far outside you. And turn you to the stately
calm within, where in holy stillness dwells the living God you never
left, and Who never left you.
</div>

None of this has succeeded in undoing the presence and action of God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit takes you gently by the hand&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; if you reach out yours to His and say, &ldquo;What
is the truth here? Help me. I do not want to rely on any part of my
personal skill that I have designed and created and employed.&rdquo; You
reach out and:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit takes you gently by the hand, and retraces with you your
mad journey outside yourself, leading you gently back to the truth and
safety within. He &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; if you invited and are listening and are willing to let it in
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; brings all your insane projections and your wild substitutions
which you have placed outside you to the truth. Thus He reverses the
course of insanity, and restores you to reason.
</div>

There is a description of the Movement of the holy instant, when you
practice it. And that is the foundation for the corrections that are
being called for in your world. Because it&rsquo;s time for all the junk
to become visible so that you can see that it&rsquo;s there and not fool
yourselves into believing that it&rsquo;s not there. And then clean it
up. Which it&rsquo;s easy to do in the light and which it&rsquo;s a
pleasure to do in the light. Because as you clear out the refuse, as you
clear out the junk, the light illuminates the perfection underneath it
that it was covering.

Participate in the transformation that is occurring by using your mind
well and remembering that your greatest ally and therefore, the greatest
ally of the whole world is the conscious choice for peace, because
you&rsquo;re finding nothing else more important than peace. Then you
will be the script for redemption. And that&rsquo;s your role.
That&rsquo;s your function.

I love you. And I look forward to being with you next week.

[^1]: T18 The Dream and the Reality

