---
title: Nov 26, 2011
ref: "T18.1 Substitution as a Defense"
alink: "/acim/text/18/chap1801/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who is joining us on the internet.

It is a time this week on part of your globe for specific attention to
be given to Thanksgiving&mdash;the expression of gratitude&mdash;and
specifically, the acknowledgement of the evidences of God&rsquo;s Love
that you have experienced since the last Thanksgiving.

Now, I want to point out a principle here tonight. It lies in the
statement, &ldquo;Ye shall know the truth and the truth shall make you
free.&rdquo;[^1]  Now notice, it doesn&rsquo;t say you will find yourself
made free and then you will know the truth. No. The principle I&rsquo;m
expressing tonight is that there is an order to this: &ldquo;Ye shall
know the truth and the truth shall make you free.&rdquo;

What does that say? It says that freedom is gained by knowing the truth,
which necessarily means that the truth must be known while you lack
freedom if the result is going to be the gaining of freedom.

In other words, knowing the truth will be something not easy to do from
a state of bondage. To know the truth will make you free but an
investment of faith in truth must be expressed when there seems not to
be justification for it. Then, in the reception and experience of it,
comes the freedom.

This was obviously illustrated when I raised Lazarus. Because everyone
was sure he was dead and gone for good. And before I called Lazarus
forth, what did I do? I said, &ldquo;Thank you Father.&rdquo; Ah-h, an
expression of gratitude with no justification for gratitude before there
was justification for gratitude. &ldquo;Thank you Father, for I know
that Thou hearest me always.&rdquo;[^2]

Faith in the truth had to be expressed before the evidence of
it&mdash;before its transformational evidence could appear.

Now I want to finesse the word, &ldquo;Thanksgiving&rdquo; a little bit
before we continue further. Thanksgiving is acknowledgement of truth,
isn&rsquo;t it, acknowledgement of the evidence of the love of God.

We&rsquo;re going to be reading tonight about Reality. Under the
circumstances, the seriousness with which we&rsquo;ve discussed things
over the past short period of time, one might say, this wonderful truth
that&rsquo;s being expressed doesn&rsquo;t really relate yet&mdash;it
doesn&rsquo;t have much meaning yet. Just like truth doesn&rsquo;t have
much meaning to one who is in bondage to error.

Very practical, very important.

We&rsquo;re going to be talking about Reality while you seem not to be
in It, while you seem not to be conscious of It, while you seem not to
have the transformational evidence of It. But this is exactly the way It
works. And when you find yourself faced with a problem that challenges
your faith, that challenges your comprehension of truth, that challenges
the idea that you are loved, this is exactly the time that you must
bring the acknowledgement of truth into play.

This is why it is essential while you are jailed, while you are limited,
while you are suffering, to shut up, to silence your negative confident
reactions and ask, &ldquo;Father, what is the truth here?&rdquo;

Mind you, because release doesn&rsquo;t come until after truth is Known,
you must seek the Father&rsquo;s help in Knowing the truth while it
seems unjustified, while you seem quite sure under the circumstances
that there is no hope, that there is no cause for faith.

But I will tell you something (if you&rsquo;re willing to remember it at
the time when you&rsquo;re suffering): Some weeks before or perhaps some
months before, you were contemplating the truth and it was fully
meaningful to you. You were contemplating the truth and you Knew it was
the truth. You considered God and you Knew there was a God. In the
tightness and the bondage of the moment, you still Know that those
things are the truth. It&rsquo;s just difficult to bring your attention
to those facts of truth that you do Know when your inclination is to
make a mountain out of illusion&mdash;to make the suffering and the
bondage more important than the two-step, more important than knowing
the truth so that the truth shall make you free. It&rsquo;s Part 1 and
Part 2, the principle of the movement.

So as we read tonight, if what is being read seems airy-fairy or really
beautiful but irrelevant or impractical or not particularly
helpful&mdash;not something you&rsquo;re able to embrace with
commitment&mdash;remember that considering these things is the first
Part: &ldquo;Ye shall know the truth and &hellip;&rdquo; as a result of
knowing the truth, &ldquo;&hellip; the truth shall set you free.&rdquo;

Now, knowing the truth isn&rsquo;t a matter of reading these words and
reiterating them and saying &ldquo;I now know the truth.&rdquo; Reading
these words puts you in a place where no contradiction of truth is
occurring. But in order to have the experience of what truth is in the
moment you&rsquo;re in, as you&rsquo;re about to have your prison door
unlocked, you must bring faith and commitment and understand that
it&rsquo;s impossible for you to feel the truth of it fully while
you&rsquo;re still in the cell. But you must, in order to leave, embrace
it while you are there.

Now, as you know, Waking up as a process of the two-step, all revolves
around a relationship because you can&rsquo;t get back into the Kingdom
of Heaven by yourself. You must have a Brother or a Sister whose eyes
you are willing to look into and in spite of your beliefs about him or
her and in spite of their beliefs about themselves, you wish only to
remember God. You wish only to see God there.

Well, your poor imprisoned state of mind and theirs isn&rsquo;t going to
help you a heck of a lot. But there is something that is going to help
you one hundred percent. And that is something that it&rsquo;s easy to
forget: God loves you. You are God&rsquo;s Self-expression. God regards
you always and forever with the same love and honoring and Knowing of
the ultimate truth of you that He has of Himself&mdash;that He gives to
Himself because you Are Him, embodied.

Sometimes it&rsquo;s difficult to remember that. But the way out of the
difficulty you&rsquo;re in when you can&rsquo;t remember it, is to
consciously choose to remember it, even if initially it seems like a
rehearsal of nonsense.

As I said, there have been times just a few weeks ago or a couple of
months ago that none of it seemed to be nonsense. And if you remember
that, you can remember that you still believe it even if you&rsquo;re
not feeling it. And now the movement has begun. Now the shifting of
perception is beginning and the way out of the suffering is assured if
you persist.

So:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In your relationship&hellip;[^3]
</div>

&hellip; that you are intending to treat as a holy relationship so that
you might practice the holy instant and remember God in your experience
of your Brother &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In your relationship, where He &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; has taken charge of everything at your request, He has set the
course inward, to the truth you share.
</div>

&hellip; the truth you and your Brother share.

Now mind you, this is important. Because although you&rsquo;re intending
to have a holy relationship with your Brother, the way to have it is to
join with the Father first or to join with the Holy Spirit first in you
so that the truth that God has placed in you as a conscious awareness is
remembered because you&rsquo;ve chosen to pay attention there. And in
the remembering, becomes your understanding, your Knowing of the truth
that spontaneously gets extended to your Brother or your Sister. And it
works the same with your Brother or Sister.

I say this because you don&rsquo;t want to try to join with each other
first before having done the two-step and gone within as it says here:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In your relationship, where &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; [He] has taken charge of everything at your request, He has set
the course inward, to the truth you share.
</div>

To the place where you have it together, which is not through space and
is not one personality dickering with or pleading with or cajoling or
encouraging another to change in some way to make the relationship
really good. You see? That&rsquo;s not what we&rsquo;re talking about.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In the mad world outside you, nothing can be shared but only
substituted, and sharing and substituting have nothing in common in
reality.

In the mad world outside you&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; well, let&rsquo;s remember, when you&rsquo;re not in a state of
inquiry of desiring to Know and being silent enough to let the Knowing
introduce itself to you, then you engage in thinking and reasoning and
coming to your own conclusions. And that&rsquo;s outside of the holy
place within you. And that&rsquo;s where illusion is happening.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In the mad world outside you, nothing can be shared but only
substituted, and sharing and substituting have nothing in common in
reality. Within yourselves you love each other &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; just as when you&rsquo;re not feeling bound and unable to be
grateful, you can remember a few weeks ago or a few months ago when your
clarity was with you and you did have confidence and faith. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Within yourselves you love each other with a perfect love.
</div>

And when you let yourself give your attention to that, it will
re-register with you and begin to transform the unholy, unpleasant
relationship to its natural position and nature.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Here is holy ground&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in this place that you and your Brother or Sister occupy.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Here is holy ground, in which no substitution can enter, and where only
the truth about each other can abide.
</div>

There is such a place. But it only registers with you when you shut up.
It only registers with you in the silence of your intent to have some
other perception. And as I&rsquo;ve said before, that seems to require
you to abandon authority&mdash;to not be in charge. Blessed words,
those: &ldquo;not being in charge.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Here you are joined in God, as much together as you are with Him.
</div>

In other words, your experience of Oneness with each other is as clear
and as strong as your Oneness with Him, the Father. That&rsquo;s because
in the absence of your thinking, in the absence of your willfulness,
God&rsquo;s laws prevail. What God is Being prevails as it always has,
but now it&rsquo;s not missing your attention.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The original error has not entered here, nor ever will.
</div>

That&rsquo;s the truth. It&rsquo;s not there now. Oh, I know, yup, you
don&rsquo;t seem to be having a holy relationship, therefore, it has to
have entered there. Nope, it hasn&rsquo;t. It&rsquo;s just that you are
not choosing to be devoted in your attention to that place where it is.
You&rsquo;re devoting yourselves to your best judgments, your best
thinking and playing off of each other in that process. And that&rsquo;s
why it seems not to be there.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Here is the radiant truth, to which the Holy Spirit has committed your
relationship.
</div>

You see? The Holy Spirit is there to remind you of the truth that
it&rsquo;s being hard for you to believe. Because the Holy Spirit knows
that your remembering it is the answer to the problem&mdash;constituting
the evaporation of the illusions.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Let Him bring it here, where YOU would have it be.
</div>

Well, you could say, &ldquo;Well, I don&rsquo;t know that I would have
it be here. You know, it&rsquo;s really hard for me to believe that if I
go ahead and trust that that old bitch or that old bastard will really
change and won&rsquo;t just take advantage of me in my moment of
weakness.&rdquo; You see? And so you write that script and you devote
yourself to it. And you don&rsquo;t &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Let Him bring it here&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the radiant truth &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; where YOU would have it be.
</div>

You&rsquo;ll even forget that that is &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; where YOU would have it be.
</div>

Because on your good days you knew that you wanted it to be there. You
see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Give Him &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; but a little faith in each other&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; give the Holy Spirit a little bit of faith that you have in
your Brother. Present the Holy Spirit with that little bit of faith that
you have. That&rsquo;s like saying, &ldquo;Okay, I&rsquo;ll dare to know
the truth. And even though it seems unreasonable, I&rsquo;ll dare to let
the truth make me free even though I can&rsquo;t justify it yet.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Give Him but a little faith in each other, to help him show you that no
substitute you made for Heaven can keep you from it. In you there IS no
separation&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; even though at the moment it seems that there is.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In you there IS no separation, and no substitute can keep you from each
other.
</div>

You&rsquo;ve got to take that stand while you still seem to be in
prison, while you still need to be set free. I promise you, if you
don&rsquo;t take this stand, if you don&rsquo;t adopt this position, you
will remain stuck until you do. It&rsquo;s the only way out. This is why
whining and complaining is useless. &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t think
it&rsquo;ll work. I&rsquo;m sure it won&rsquo;t work. There&rsquo;s no
point in my putting any effort in this.&rdquo; Bullshit! Of course,
there is. It&rsquo;s the only way out. So it will work and it will be
worth the effort you put into it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your reality was God&rsquo;s creation&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you know, whatever God creates is Real.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your reality was God&rsquo;s creation, and HAS no substitute.
</div>

What does that mean?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; HAS no substitute.
</div>

It means that no little imaginary whippersnapper can come along and say,
&ldquo;Well, I&rsquo;m going to be a different way.&rdquo; No Son of God
can come along and say, &ldquo;I am actually going to pretend to be what
I&rsquo;m not, and I&rsquo;m going to persist in it until I make it
true.&rdquo; There can&rsquo;t be any such substitute. After all
isn&rsquo;t it obvious that if a holy Son of God is pretending to be a
poor human mortal, it&rsquo;s still a holy Son of God pretending that?
Every bit of skill at acting that&rsquo;s brought into play is still
brought into play by a holy Son of God, who hasn&rsquo;t stopped being a
holy Son of God.

That&rsquo;s why you must remember that, you&rsquo;re neither behind the
point of perfection, nor advancing toward it. You&rsquo;re at that point
and must understand yourself therefrom. Why? Because that&rsquo;s the
only way out.

The only way out is to make a stand for the fact that any attempt that
you&rsquo;ve made to be what you&rsquo;re not hasn&rsquo;t
succeeded&mdash;never has succeeded. And therefore, you are at this
moment unbound believing you&rsquo;re bound, by choice but not by
actuality.

Ye shall know the truth and the truth shall make you free. You will
remember that you are neither behind the point of perfection, nor
advancing toward it. That you&rsquo;re at that point and you must
understand yourself therefrom. And that the truth shall make you free.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You are so firmly joined in truth that only God is there.
</div>

You see? And only God has ever been there &hellip; or here where you
are. Your imaginations haven&rsquo;t changed Reality or the Love of God
or His Expression of you in one iota. It simply hasn&rsquo;t happened.
And your release from any bondage is inevitable when you dare to know
the truth first before the freedom is there and when you realize that
your expression or your acknowledgement of truth is always more than
some intellectual procedure. It&rsquo;s an expression of love, because
you are acknowledging truth as thanksgiving.

Thanksgiving isn&rsquo;t a politeness. Thanksgiving is an
acknowledgement of truth&mdash;a result of truth recognized, a result of
having chosen to Know the truth. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You are so firmly joined in truth that only God is there. And He would
never accept something else instead of you.
</div>

You&rsquo;ve tried to create something else instead of you and
you&rsquo;ve tried to adopt that sense of self as actually being you.
But you can&rsquo;t do it. And besides, God would never accept something
else instead of you no matter how well you presented it. That&rsquo;s
how Loved you are. And that&rsquo;s how safe you are and that&rsquo;s
how sure your transformation, regeneration and redemption are. You see,
although you may not be experiencing it, this is the good news. And this
is the justification for gratitude &hellip; this is the justification
for what is truly thankfulness.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He loves you both&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you and this one you have chosen to be the one whose eyes you
will look into and remember God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He loves you both, equally and as one. And as He loves you, so you ARE.
</div>

Again, you may not be feeling it, but that is what you ARE.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You are not joined together in illusions&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; illusions only separate you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You are not joined together in illusions, but in the Thought so holy and
so perfect that illusions cannot remain to darken the holy place in
which you stand together.
</div>

Now, these are words you should be reading in the context of
thanksgiving, in the context of giving some focused attention and
intention to see the truth that holds you in the perfection of
God&rsquo;s Love and in the perfectness of His law&rsquo;s that prevail
when you&rsquo;re willing to know the truth before the truth sets you
free.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God is with you, my brothers.
</div>

He is.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Let us join in Him in peace and gratitude, and accept His gift as our
most holy and perfect reality, which we share in Him.
</div>

Now, obviously when you have an investment in getting even with a
Brother or Sister, when you have an investment in besting him or her,
when you have an investment in controlling him, peace and gratitude are
unavailable&mdash;two things essential to Waking up, two things
essential to your regaining your sanity.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Let us join in Him in peace and gratitude, and accept His gift as our
most holy and perfect reality, which we share in Him.
</div>

That has to be your goal while you are with your Brother. This has to be
the presence of mind and the attitude which you must be exercising while
you are with your Brother. If peace and gratitude are essential, then be
intelligent and cut the crap! Stop generating fear! Stop arousing anger!
Stop trying to get even! Stop going for justice! Those don&rsquo;t do
it. Peace and gratitude do.

And you know what? It&rsquo;s not your Brother you&rsquo;ll have a hard
time getting past in this process, it&rsquo;s your own insistence upon
your right to have it your way when you want it.

You know, the simple abandonment of an activity can cause you to Wake
up, can cause you to be the one who sets the whole world on a path of
more obvious transformation and regeneration and redemption.
That&rsquo;s all &hellip; just neglecting to do something that you can
neglect to do. But it will require you to stop valuing your right to do
it. And to stop fooling yourself into thinking that your doing it is
going to give you the credibility that is needed in order to fulfill
your destiny.

No matter how glorifying and gratifying you describe the process,
it&rsquo;s something that doesn&rsquo;t work. And so you can simply
neglect to do it anymore. You see?

Now I&rsquo;m going to stop here for this evening because although what
I&rsquo;ve discussed is simple, it is significant. It is something to
not move past too quickly. It&rsquo;s something to spend time with, to
embrace in the quietness so that in the quietness you might find
yourself able to allow even greater quietness, even greater peace and
even greater opportunity for gratitude than you&rsquo;ve been able to
achieve so far.

This is so important. It is so beautiful. And the acknowledgement of its
truth constitutes an expression of gratitude that embraces
everything&mdash;blesses everything&mdash;and in the process you get to
keep the blessing.

May you feel the Love that embraces you. And may you let yourself
neglect to do the things that keep you from feeling it.

I love you. I love you all. And I look forward to being with you next
week.

[^1]: John 8:32
[^2]: John 11:42
[^3]: T18.1 Substitution as a Defense

