---
title: Dec 4, 2011
ref: "T18.1 Substitution as a Defense"
alink: "/acim/text/18/chap1801/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

Some time ago, we read that your attention is God&rsquo;s treasure.
These are not just nice words, it&rsquo;s a profound statement of
impactful fact, let&rsquo;s put it that way. In other words, it is
significant, not just as an idea but as an embodied fact about you.

Your attention is God&rsquo;s treasure. And giving your attention to the
Father is your salvation.

That is the simplicity of A Course In Miracles. That is the Lesson of
the Course. And at the bottom line, that&rsquo;s the Alpha and Omega of
the learning of the Course.

We&rsquo;ve been giving a lot of attention to the two-step, to the holy
instant and the fact that Waking up through the utilization of the holy
instant is not something you can do alone. You must do it relative to a
Brother, a Sister, some part of Creation.

Now when you become still for the purpose of abandoning your thought
processes, your reasoning, your means of coming to conclusions and
basing actions upon them, when you choose to abandon that and become
still and you ask for Guidance, you ask to know the truth, you ask to
have it uncovered to you and you have it uncovered to you, in so many
words, you hear the Father&rsquo;s Voice. You have had an experience of
what could be called, &ldquo;the Living Waters,&rdquo; the present
original Movement of Creation as an experience having nothing whatsoever
to do with memory, having nothing whatsoever to do with all of the
things you taught yourself, all the things you made up, all the
agreements you made with each other.

Let me put it this way: If in your daily activities you are engaging in
everything from your memory, you are not engaging in everything from the
place of the Living Waters&mdash;of the spontaneous original Movement of
Creation now…now…now…now…now. And if you are not connected with the
Living Waters, if you are not gathering your experience of Being from
the present Movement of Creation, then you&rsquo;re still asleep.
Nothing meaningful is happening because you are disconnected from
God&rsquo;s Perspective. You are disconnected from what it is your
Birthright to be experiencing as the expression of God now…now…now…now,
the embodiment of His Perspective now…now…now&hellip;now.

Of course, if you&rsquo;re going to rely upon memory because it&rsquo;s
convenient and you&rsquo;ve done it for so long that you&rsquo;re very
familiar with it and it gives you a feeling of security, you are, as in
the movie &ldquo;Inception,&rdquo; functioning from a level other than
Reality. It&rsquo;s not what you want to be doing. It&rsquo;s not where
actuality is happening. It&rsquo;s not where transformation can occur
and it&rsquo;s not the means by which you can step out of the level of
memory and old habits that you need to be able to do, because you were
not created to be at some other level than Reality. You were not meant
to be functioning at a level other than where the Living Waters, the
vitality of the present tense Creation of God and His Perspective is
your true perspective&mdash;that which is your Birthright as God&rsquo;s
Expression.

And so, you know, no matter how well you might think you&rsquo;re able
to function at some other level than the level of the Living Waters,
you&rsquo;re in a dream, you&rsquo;re not in Reality. And no matter how
harmonious it seems to be, no matter how productive it seems to be,
you&rsquo;re still asleep. It&rsquo;s still a dream.

Now, someone needs to come along with a larger perspective or a
perspective from a level other than the level of dreams. Someone from
the level of the Living Waters must tell you that you&rsquo;re dreaming
and must get your attention significantly enough to cause you to
genuinely look again and not just brush it aside as fanciful thinking.
That&rsquo;s not of any value to you. Because, you know, the things that
you have developed on the level of dreams that you&rsquo;re on, oh,
those things have been developed so well and you have so much evidence
of their value that there&rsquo;s no justification for leaving it.

I will tell you that as long as there&rsquo;s sin, sickness and death
occurring, there&rsquo;s justification for looking again, there&rsquo;s
justification for challenging the perspective you&rsquo;re using to
engage in Being everyday.

Now, after our get-together last week, many of you I&rsquo;m sure, with
sincerity began to implement what we talked about&mdash;the bringing of
gratitude into play before there seems to be justification for
gratitude. The wanting to know the God&rsquo;s honest truth in the face
of challenges that seem to say to you that &ldquo;there is no God and
there is no answer and sin, disease and death are what absolutely govern
existence at the bottom line.&rdquo; And many of you had the experience
of transformation occurring because you had faith in truth before the
justification was there.

Now I know there were others as well who simply felt that they could do
well enough without being joined at the level of the Living Waters, that
their capacities or their capabilities were quite adequate to cope with
things and found that perhaps, unlike before, there was a lot more
misery involved in that practice and that the more you persisted in it
through the week, the more rugged it got and there was no peace.
Following all the rules you created at that level of dreams brought no
peace, at least not like it used to. And it seemed to aggravate your
existence far beyond what the circumstances seem to call for. But of
course, the circumstances &ldquo;out there&rdquo; weren&rsquo;t what was
governing. It was the fact that you were insisting upon choosing to
function at a level where the Living Water of Reality was not available
to you.

Now, if you have a choice between going to the Altar right in the middle
of you&mdash;the holy place right in the middle of you&mdash;and
desiring to know of the Father what the truth is, or desiring to know of
the Holy Spirit what the truth is, if that act is what guarantees you
release from sin, sickness and death, then why not do it? If the premise
seems too fantastic, too unreasonable, why not try it anyway if indeed
the promise is that you will get release from sin, sickness and death?
Why not be practical enough to make a decision with your Guide or with
the Holy Spirit or with the Father&mdash;an inner commitment that you
make&mdash;to seriously practice what the holy instant really means.
There&rsquo;s no reason not to.

It&rsquo;s such a simple step. It&rsquo;s such a simple way out of
illusion. Maybe nobody knew about it before. But I keep bringing it up.
And in one way or another, the Course keeps saying it.

So you&rsquo;re getting exposed to the idea. You&rsquo;re no longer
ignorant of the possibility. And if you&rsquo;re willing to trust me,
you&rsquo;re no longer ignorant of the actuality because I&rsquo;m
telling you it is the way out. It is the way out into your freedom to
experience the Kingdom of Heaven without going anywhere&mdash;without
having to die to get there.

Now, going into the book:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Heaven is restored to all the Sonship through your relationship, for in
it lies the Sonship, whole and beautiful, safe in your love.[^1]

Heaven is restored to all the Sonship through your
relationship&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your relationship with your Brother or Sister. Your
relationship with your Brother or Sister which you embraced and bore
witness to the truth of by virtue of turning to the Father first before
looking at your Brother or Sister, to want to know the truth about your
Brother or Sister. And in having that revealed to you by the Father,
discovering the holiness of your Brother or Sister and by virtue of the
awareness in you, acknowledging it in them without reservation because
you Know the truth about your Brother or Sister.

Now &hellip; you know, when you get up on the wrong side of the bed and
you have a really negative attitude and you look ahead at your day or
you look out the window, or you look at your wife or husband or the
dog&mdash;nothing looks good! It&rsquo;s all a chore &hellip; nothing
good can come of it.

But on the other hand, if you wake up and you have a chipper attitude
and you look out the window or you look at your husband or wife or your
dog or your cat, why everything you&rsquo;re looking at is a promise of
joy, is a promise of pleasure, a promise of satisfaction &hellip; a
promise of peace.

So when it says that &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Heaven is restored to all the Sonship through your relationship
</div>

&hellip; with the one you&rsquo;re in a holy relationship with, but that
the whole Sonship, Heaven is restored to the whole Sonship. Yes!
that&rsquo;s like getting up in a dark murky attitude and having
something happen to you, perhaps as you&rsquo;ve only walked two steps
from the edge of your bed, and your vision has changed and all of a
sudden, everything you look at is a promise of joy. Well, in the
transition, in your holy relationship, your perspective changes. You
have let the Father&rsquo;s Perspective infill you and you&rsquo;ve let
It be yours by not resisting It, not claiming a right to another
perspective. And as a result, the whole world is restored, we&rsquo;ll
say, to the Kingdom of Heaven.

Just because you found one someone worthy of abandoning your right to
think for yourself and come to your own conclusions and manage to gain
control so that you can manipulate even for the most lofty reasons. Of
course everything I&rsquo;ve just described is going on at some other
level than the level of Reality&mdash;the level of the Living Waters.
And so, none of it&rsquo;s going on, not as an actuality and
you&rsquo;re still asleep.

Nevertheless,

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Heaven is restored to all [all] the Sonship &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the experience of Reality is returned to all that you see
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; through your relationship through your relationship, for in it
lies the Sonship&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in your perspective, in your purview, lies all of everything to
be seen clearly through your enlightened perspective or to be seen
through a glass darkly&mdash;miserably. It&rsquo;s just a choice between
two points of view. It&rsquo;s a choice between two apparent levels: The
level of Living Waters or the level of illusions&mdash;dreams.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Heaven has entered quietly, for all illusions have been gently brought
unto the truth in you, and love has shined upon you&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you see? In your willingness to give your attention at the
level of the Living Waters&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; all illusions have been gently brought unto to the truth in
you, and love has shined upon you blessing your relationship with truth.
God and His whole creation have entered it together.
</div>

&ldquo;Ah-h &hellip; I know, Paul can do it, Joe can do it, so-in-so can
do it, but you know I&rsquo;ve tried and tried and tried, but I
don&rsquo;t hear a thing &hellip;&rdquo;

Well, don&rsquo;t use that script! Persist! Because there is a God and
you&rsquo;re not alone. And you&rsquo;re not just a mortal, you&rsquo;re
a divine Son of God. And all of your knowledge of who you Are, divinely
speaking, as the Father is Being you at this very moment is held in
trust by the Holy Spirit&mdash;which is nothing more than your right
Mind held in trust while you pretend to be on a different level
disconnected from the level of Living Water and somehow find meaning in
saying, &ldquo;On this level, I cannot get in touch with my Guide. Any
awareness I&rsquo;m supposed to have of my divinity and any capacity to
embody it &hellip; no way! It can&rsquo;t be experienced here. That is
my word.&rdquo; Or you could say that is your script.

If you want to rehearse that script, go ahead but it&rsquo;s going to
hurt just as it has hurt all along.

Now&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
How lovely and how holy is your relationship, with the truth shining
upon it!
</div>

When your attention is God&rsquo;s treasure and you&rsquo;ve given your
attention to Him, and as a result of giving preference to that place of
attentiveness, rather than you, you find yourself infilled&mdash;truth
shines upon you and the one you&rsquo;re in a holy relationship with.
Heaven beholds it and rejoices that you have let it come to you. Another
way of saying that is that all of the Brotherhood beholds it. Every
single one of us are all in conscious connection with all of you
constantly. And those of you who are sleeping are experienced as an
emptiness that is obviously false. And what that means is that
it&rsquo;s clear to us that it&rsquo;s not an emptiness&mdash;you are
ignoring us. You are consciously choosing to do something other than
experience your right Mind and experience Reality. But we behold it.

And when you let the light of truth come to you, we know it! And we do
rejoice! It is a joy because we&rsquo;re waiting for you. You could say
we&rsquo;re waiting for you to join the party, we&rsquo;re waiting for
you to join Reality and share it equally with us where we all Know that
we Know.

You better believe that even when you are sitting conscientiously trying
to get in touch with your Guide and you seem to be having no luck, that
is a joy to us. Because you are bringing your attention to bear upon a
place that you believe is dense enough to block your way when it
isn&rsquo;t. And we know that if you will persist and not succumb to the
idea that what you&rsquo;re pushing against is actually dense enough to
cause you to fail in this effort, you will break through! It is
inevitable!

And so I tell of this so that you might find even more justification for
persisting. Because if this is the answer, if your attention is
God&rsquo;s treasure and if you&rsquo;re giving your attention to God so
that you can hear the truth is your salvation, then the practice of the
holy instant is absolutely assured in its success.

The logic of what I&rsquo;m saying can support you in your persistence.
But I would rather have you rely upon the Love that I&rsquo;m embracing
you with as I share this because it&rsquo;s even more powerful in your
transformation than logic.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The universe within you stands with you, together.
</div>

It doesn&rsquo;t just stand with you observing you &hellip; &ldquo;hmm
&hellip; yes, I see, yes I see what you are doing &hellip; I see where
you are, you&rsquo;re with me &hellip; um &hellip; bout two feet over
&hellip; uh-huh . . you&rsquo;re a little shorter than I am &hellip;
uh-huh &hellip;&rdquo;

That&rsquo;s not being together! That&rsquo;s being separate and
observing!

The universe within you stands with you together&mdash;really
together&mdash;without anything separating you, without the slightest
dividing line, without the thinnest gauze fabric between you. It&rsquo;s
One.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And Heaven looks with love on what is joined in it&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; see? It&rsquo;s an experience of Meaning. It feels like
something and it feels divine. And you&rsquo;re going to have this
feeling of divinity and perfection right here without dying to go to
another place called &ldquo;Heaven.&rdquo;

So, right now? Later on?

Every moment you&rsquo;re in constitutes a threshold, a place for the
holy instant to work and for you to be transformed, and for you to
become so clear about your Brothers or your Brother or Sister with whom
you&rsquo;re engaging in a holy relationship, for you to recognize
unequivocally that one&rsquo;s divinity and, as I&rsquo;ve said before,
in that experience recognizing yours, and in those two recognitions,
remembering God. Wow! That&rsquo;s the perspective through which you
will look at everything and find that everything has been brought into
alignment in your mind with the truth, with the Heaven that it is.

Now, all of this requires trust. If you&rsquo;re not going to rely upon
memory, if you&rsquo;re not going to rely upon everything you&rsquo;ve
ever known and even the newest things that are supposed to be even more
practical, more powerful, more beneficial and give you more leverage to
succeed, when you abandon that you abandon what you think is your
security. And you say that I&rsquo;m asking you to lean into the
unknown, that I&rsquo;m asking you to lean into the &ldquo;Living
Waters,&rdquo; whatever the hell they are, &ldquo;Oh yeah, the
&lsquo;Living Waters,&rsquo; yes, uh-um &hellip; the conscious awareness
of truth, the Father&rsquo;s Perspective, whatever the hell that
means.&rdquo;

I know, some of you graciously doubt and some of you ungraciously doubt.
In other words, you have different degrees of objection that you bring
into play. But the simple fact is, that you&rsquo;re going to have to
arrive at a point where you are willing, where you find significantly
enough justification, because you care about your Brother or Sister more
than you do to hold onto your best judgments and your supposed capacity
to think on your own. Do you see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Whom God has called should hear no substitutes.
</div>

Substitutes, like we talked about the fact last week: That God accepts
no substitutes. You are His Son. You are His Daughter. Who you have
decided you are, who you have decided you want to be is a substitute
you&rsquo;re placing between the Father and the Real You. You&rsquo;re
choosing to be something the Father didn&rsquo;t Create. No,
you&rsquo;re choosing to pretend that you have become something the
Father wouldn&rsquo;t Create or couldn&rsquo;t Create and that would be
a substitute for the Father&rsquo;s Son or Daughter. Well:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Whom God has called should hear no substitutes.
</div>

Not even the substitute you. Not even the substitute neighbor that you
have made up as well. Not any of the substitutes that take place of what
God is Really being right here and right now.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Whom God has called &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in other words, when you practice the two-step and you hear the
Voice of God &hellip; you hear the Holy Spirit&mdash;the Voice for
God&mdash;and you discover the truth, you&rsquo;re called by God.
You&rsquo;re called into Awakeness. You&rsquo;re called into being
conscious.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Whom God has called should hear no substitutes.
</div>

You should no longer hear any of the substitutes that you have made up.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Their call &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; if you do still hear them &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is but an echo of the original error which shattered Heaven.
</div>

&ldquo;Oh, but Father, I&rsquo;d rather see it my way. Father, I&rsquo;d
rather do it myself. Father, I want a divorce.&rdquo; By making an
artificial division in that which can&rsquo;t be divided, it shattered,
we&rsquo;ll say, the peace of Heaven. It shattered the conscious
experience of what Heaven is, because you immediately began creating
substitutes for the meanings the Father had given everything.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Their call &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the call of substitutes &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is but an echo of the original error which shattered Heaven.
And what became of peace in those who heard?
</div>

&hellip; in those who heard the call for substitutes? What became of
peace? Well, you know, you lost it. And you just have fragments or wisps
of peace that drift in and out, sometimes slowly and sometimes quickly,
but always leaving you at a disadvantage and never leaving you in a
state of stability and confident safety.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Return with me &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; all of you who made substitutes.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Return with me &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; all of you who are still hearing the call of substitutes, even
though your attention is being given in my direction&mdash;in the
direction of the Father.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Return with me to Heaven, walking together out of this world &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; we could say, walking together out of this level of dreaming.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Return with me to Heaven, walking together out of this world and through
another to the loveliness and joy the other holds within it.
</div>

That&rsquo;s what I&rsquo;m here for &hellip; to say, &ldquo;Come on,
come with me, join me.&rdquo; And at the bottom line, that&rsquo;s what
your right Mind does and is saying as well&mdash;the Holy Spirit is.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Return with me to Heaven, walking together &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you see, together. You&rsquo;re not going to be able to do it
by yourself. You&rsquo;re going to want to stand at the place of the
unknown&mdash;at the point of the unknown&mdash;where the Living Waters
are coming forth that have never come forth before, so that everything
you experience and say is utterly original and not one speck of it comes
from memory, in other words, from the past.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Return with me to Heaven, walking together out of this world and through
another to the loveliness and joy the other holds within it. Would you
still further weaken and break apart what is already broken and
hopeless?
</div>

In other words, do you want to stay in this other level of dream and
manipulate the hell out of it further, thinking your accomplishing
something and by virtue of the accomplishment proving that you&rsquo;re
a valid presence, even though you are part of the dream at that level
because you&rsquo;re unconscious. You are not standing with an
inquisitive mind at the threshold of what you do not know&mdash;at the
level of the Living Waters&mdash;where what comes through, what is
experienced is hopelessly original in that moment because you are
standing with God at the point of Creation where the new emerges.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Would you still further weaken and break apart what is already broken
and hopeless? Is it here that you would look for happiness?
</div>

No, you&rsquo;re tired of that. I promise you, you&rsquo;re tired of
that! This is not fun. You haven&rsquo;t been having fun. Do you hear
that? You haven&rsquo;t been having fun. You haven&rsquo;t been
experiencing joy. You haven&rsquo;t been experiencing safety. You
haven&rsquo;t been experiencing invulnerability and all the blessings of
it&mdash;the absence of guilt, the absence of unforgiving fear.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Is it here that you would look for happiness?
</div>

We know that that&rsquo;s not really what you want to do.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Or would you not prefer to heal what has been broken, and join in making
whole what has been ravaged by separation and disease?
</div>

Stop being willing to settle for mediocrity or worse. You don&rsquo;t
have to. In fact you&rsquo;re obligated by the nature of what you Are to
do the opposite. Reach out beyond what you think is possible. Reach out
beyond the level of memories and convictions built upon those memories
so that you might stand at the edge of the unknown where the Living
Waters pour forth into expression as your conscious experience of Being.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have been called&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you have. Now don&rsquo;t get egotistical here: You have been
called &hellip; you above all others have been called or even if
it&rsquo;s not above all others, you have been called and that obviously
makes you a little bit special.

You want to know something? The moment you decided to behave as though
you were out of your mind, to behave as though you had a mind that
wasn&rsquo;t God&rsquo;s possession and attention that it wasn&rsquo;t
God&rsquo;s treasure to have, the moment you thought you would adopt
that attitude and the split occurred and your right Mind seemed to be
unavailable to you, [snaps fingers] at that moment, it started calling
for you. It started saying, &ldquo;You can&rsquo;t accomplish the
impossible. You can&rsquo;t accomplish what you are doing. Listen for My
Voice and I will bring you back into your sanity.&rdquo; So you have
been called. And you have been called since the moment you decided to
get a divorce from your Father.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have been called, together, to the most holy function that this
world contains.
</div>

Now that sounds wonderful. But please understand that the Holy
Spirit&mdash;that which is nothing more than your right Mind calling you
to come back into the full possession of your Mind&mdash;is calling you
to engage in a most holy function: To be the Son or Daughter of God that
you actually Are.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have been called, together&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the two of you who have joined in a holy relationship
successfully &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; to the most holy function that this world contains.
</div>

Now if that&rsquo;s not a goal worthy of anyone&rsquo;s attention I
don&rsquo;t know what is, especially since it is utterly simple.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is the only one which has no limits, and reaches out to every broken
fragment of the Sonship with healing and uniting comfort.
</div>

I know, you&rsquo;re too busy being miserable and you&rsquo;re too busy
getting even for the discomfort that&rsquo;s been inflicted upon you.
But you have a holy function&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; one which has no limits, and reaches out to every broken
fragment &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; like with compassion, with caring. Not with manipulation, not
with trying to get the better of another one, with love &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; reaches out to every broken fragment of the Sonship with
healing and uniting comfort. This is offered YOU, in your holy
relationship. Accept it here, and you will give as you have accepted.
</div>

When you wake up in the morning with a chipper attitude and you look
out, you give that chipper attitude. You don&rsquo;t even stop and think
about it, &ldquo;Oh, I&rsquo;m going to give some of my chipper attitude
to that Robin over there. Oh, I&rsquo;m going to give some of it to that
flower over there. Oh, I&rsquo;m going to give it to this beautiful
sky.&rdquo; No, you have a chipper attitude and it just colors your
experience of everything.

The holy experience of the holy relationship colors every aspect of your
experience&mdash;it&rsquo;s given to every aspect of your experience.
You can&rsquo;t help but do it and it becomes your activity. And
there&rsquo;s no effort to it because you didn&rsquo;t do it. It just
happened. That&rsquo;s the marvel of it.

And what I&rsquo;m saying is true of everyone. The holy instant is for
everyone to practice and for everyone to succeed at without
qualification.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The peace of God is given you &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and when you receive it and feel it, it&rsquo;s given everyone
else by you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The peace of God is given you with the glowing purpose in which you
join. The holy light that brought you together must extend&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; no choice about it. It must. It does &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; as YOU accepted it.
</div>

Now, I need to throw you off balance a little bit, because you will tend
to take what I&rsquo;ve said this evening and let it fit into
preconceptions you have. And that&rsquo;s not going into the holy
instant at the level of the Living Waters where you don&rsquo;t know.
Any preconceptions you bring with you, you bring with you to give
yourself a sense of balance while you&rsquo;re doing this thing, where
you are going to lose your balance by stepping into the unknown and
letting that which you&rsquo;ve never heard before be revealed to you.
You don&rsquo;t know what doing this is going to look like. You
don&rsquo;t know what you&rsquo;re going to do.

We certainly have broached upon the subject of that dirty word
&ldquo;involvement,&rdquo; where you love your Brother or Sister enough
to be present with him or her in the middle of injustice or in the
middle of chaos and care enough to find a way to look at them and
remember God so you can bare witness to the truth about them.

Now, Spring is&mdash;even though it is Winter now&mdash;Spring is
busting out all over on your globe. Brother and Sister are looking at
each other and remembering that they have a voice. You know, when things
go along relatively smoothly &hellip; relatively smoothly, and there are
no great demands upon everyone, everyone can become complacent, relax,
I&rsquo;m going to say, too much. Meaning, relax to the point of
forgetting Birthrights, relaxing to the point where there&rsquo;s no
need to make demands for everything or for anything because basically
everything is running rather smoothly.

But in the process one can forget that one has a voice. One can forget
that there is a need to bear witness for your Brother or your Sister.
There is a need in the middle of crisis, in the middle of injustice no
matter who seems to have started it, there is a need to let your Brother
or Sister be enough justification for you to say, &ldquo;Father, what is
the truth here? Father, what is needed here?&rdquo; And then if, through
the movement of the Living Waters in you, you find that you need to go
out and throw some rocks or stand firmly against an onslaught of
injustice coming in the form of unjust preservation of law, if you find
that you need to occupy someone&rsquo;s backyard whose house is being
inappropriately taken away from them, if you find that you need to stand
with others and say, &ldquo;No!&rdquo; even though you think it&rsquo;s
impossible because of course, it&rsquo;s the government, it&rsquo;s the
financial system, it&rsquo;s the setup itself &hellip; you can&rsquo;t
do anything about it. Well, it&rsquo;s not true.

You may find yourself called upon as a practice of the holy instant and
as a practice of establishing holy relationships, that you will do
uncommon things in acts that elicit respect for human decency, that
stand in respect of Brothers and Sisters who, because they really are
the Sons and Daughters of God, do not deserve to be fooled into thinking
that they must just roll over and be taken advantage of without any
experience of Brotherhood being expressed, where one stands with
another, where many stand with many others witnessing for the truth,
witnessing for justice, witnessing for safety, witnessing for no more
threat, witnessing for no more greed at the expense of others.

Beautiful words we read tonight. You never know what the practical
application of them will be and don&rsquo;t be afraid of it. And by all
means realize that when you dare to engage in the holy instant&mdash;the
level of the Living Waters&mdash;your life is going to become exciting,
interesting, stimulated by that which brings forth the best, that which
is transformational, that which will be a source of joy.

And thank God you can&rsquo;t know ahead of time what it is and what
it&rsquo;s going to look like, because if you did you would limit it
terribly.

I love you all. Remember, the practice of the holy instant is a kick-ass
activity in the best meaning of those words. Embrace it.

I love you again. And I look forward to being with you next time.

[^1]: T18.1 Substitution as a Defense

