---
title: Dec 11, 2011
ref: "Discussion"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

I love you. I love all of you. It is the purpose of my Being to love
you&mdash;every single one of you. It is the purpose of my Being to love
you in such a way that you remember who you Are, and that you are not
who you are pretending to be.

It is the purpose of my Being to love you so that all resistance to who
you divinely Are evaporates because you feel safe. That&rsquo;s the
purpose of my Being. That was the purpose of my Being on what you call,
&ldquo;The First Christmas.&rdquo; The birth of the Christ Child as it
was seen was an introduction into a world very much like the one you are
experiencing today. It was a world of political domination, of caste
systems, of groups&mdash;you know, of Romans and the Jews and others.

And the Romans dominated. And those whom they dominated suffered, griped
and experienced a great faith within them that a savior would come to
release them from this domination.

Today domination by governments is rampant. As unfair as it was two
thousand years ago, the behavior that subjects mankind to unfairness,
injustice, bad treatment, constitutes a call for love just like it did
two thousand years ago.

And a call for love is being answered. The call for Love is being
answered by a book called A Course in Miracles, by those who listen to
the Holy Spirit and respond to their Brothers and Sisters from
there&mdash;and by me.

Here you are in a Season designed to express love, affection, caring,
the Season, you might say, in which abundance is appropriate so that the
joy of sharing can be easily done&mdash;easily had.

But no, austerity is the theme and the lifting of austerity into a
position of &ldquo;beneficence&rdquo; as though it is the answer to
lack, not love. And austerity, as you all know, whether it&rsquo;s
forced upon you or chosen by you, is an experience of suffering. It is
not an experience that has ever led to abundance. It is not a practice
that has ever led to a spontaneous expression of love or joy.

It is a practice that needs to stop because it stands in opposition to
the nature of Being.

Divine love always has met and always will meet every human need.
It&rsquo;s easy to forget that. It&rsquo;s necessary to remember it on
purpose.

Now as you proceed during the next few weeks here, you&rsquo;re liable
to experience stress, concern, worry and involuntary experience of
vulnerability as a result of lack. And as a result of the fact that this
Season calls for something that seems not to be available and which
calls for something else to be practiced, the something that seems not
to be available is abundance: Abundance of joy, abundance of cash,
abundance of caring.

And what does seem to be called for is to accept that you don&rsquo;t
have, to accept that there is lack and that you&rsquo;re going to have
to &ldquo;bite the bullet&rdquo; and live with it. And that somehow that
practice of, &ldquo;Oh-h &hellip; a rod up your backbone and a stiff
upper lip&rdquo; is somehow going to spontaneously produce joy, the
free-flow of a willingness to dare to give.

And you know what? It&rsquo;s not appropriate &hellip; it&rsquo;s not at
all appropriate to go through the next few weeks operating on that
basis. And it&rsquo;s not appropriate even after that to operate on that
basis. If you operate on that basis, then you&rsquo;re calling what is
happening, &ldquo;a call for hurt&mdash;a call for suffering&rdquo; not
a call for love, not a call for healing.

And you can&rsquo;t afford to forget that whatever is happening that
seems to be less than the best is only a call for love.

What is it a call for? It&rsquo;s a call for you to be me. It&rsquo;s a
call for you, today, in the world that you&rsquo;re living in, to be the
one who looks at your Brother and remembers the Father just as two
thousand years ago it was my purpose for Being: To look at my Brothers
and remember my Father and give Voice to what my Father was Being so
that my Brothers who had forgotten might remember and might be inspired
by the truth, rather than assuming that domination, limitation, lack,
was life&hellip; and one must simply make the best of it.

That was not my Message, was it. And that&rsquo;s not the message called
for today.

Between now and the end of the Holidays, you&rsquo;re going to be
provided with ample opportunities to respond to the call for love, as
though it is a call for love. So that it causes you to reach beyond
appearances and beyond your surface reactions to a depth in you, in the
holiness of you, where the love that you Are, the love that the Father
is Being in you, has a chance to slip forward, not with great effort,
not with great strain, but to just slip forward out to the surface, out
to your relationship with your Brother or your Sister so that you become
an expression of God. And you fulfill your purpose for Being which is to
give Voice to the Voice for truth&mdash;the Voice for God because
austerity is not the answer.

Austerity isn&rsquo;t what is called for. Austerity is not what everyone
deserves. Because there isn&rsquo;t a single one of you anywhere on your
globe who is not the Son or Daughter of God, utterly and absolutely
divine, who has a divine Birthright.

I know, I&rsquo;ve said this over and over again. But you know when you
come to a Season, we&rsquo;ll say, the purpose of which is to remind
everyone of God&rsquo;s Love, and everyone forgets that because
it&rsquo;s so strenuous, and everybody is trying to live up to
everyone&rsquo;s expectations and can&rsquo;t &hellip; and labors and
labors and labors and then feels guilty for not being able to perform,
Oh-h, this is not your Birthright.

Now if you find yourself beginning to feel depressed, sad, and you
can&rsquo;t quite put your finger on why, I want you to be alert. I want
you to treat that as a red flag. I want you to treat that as though,
instead of being a problem to be suffered from, it is a call for love
which you are to be blessed by because in the caring enough to dig
deeply for that Love and share it, you become inspired with it as well.
And you give Voice to the Father. You give Voice to the divine purpose
of Being. And I mean the divine purpose of being right here on planet
Earth, today, tonight, tomorrow.

Many of you walk through the stores and hear the Christmas Carols and
hear the word &ldquo;jolly&rdquo; and &ldquo;merry&rdquo; and it seems
empty. Don&rsquo;t let it become empty &hellip; don&rsquo;t let it
become empty. Catch yourself when you begin to agree with that thought.

And then, you know what? I want you to notice the children that are
there where the music is playing and where all the Christmas festivities
are, and look at the twinkle in their eyes. They don&rsquo;t have any
trouble seeing the merry in Christmas. Let them be your teachers.
Don&rsquo;t stand there and say, &ldquo;Well they haven&rsquo;t had
enough life experience to know that all of this means nothing,&rdquo;
even though next year if you have abundance and you have health you will
see the merry in it and you will enjoy the merry in it, because your
perception this year is colored temporarily.

And why is it colored? It&rsquo;s not because there are austerity
programs. It&rsquo;s not because there are governments who aren&rsquo;t
governing fairly and well. It&rsquo;s because you&rsquo;ve forgotten to
do the two-step &hellip; you&rsquo;ve forgotten to do what you&rsquo;re
here to do.

Can you imagine if the Christ Child was born into a world of unfairness,
political unfairness, governmental, religious unfairness and slowly
began to say, &ldquo;Wow, this is an awful world.&rdquo; You tell me
what good it would be for the Christ to appear &ldquo;in the human
condition&rdquo; and forget why He was there. And then imagine yourself
as one of those who need the Christ to appear, who need the inspiration
and you will begin to be able to grasp with feeling just how valuable
your position is to your Brothers and Sisters and even globally, because
the inspiration that heals is what is being called for.

Griping, suffering, putting up with terror, just living with the
awfulness of it is, well, it&rsquo;s to fall prey to ignorance. And once
having fallen prey to it, causing it to seem to be an active evil,
destructive. Well, that&rsquo;s not what you&rsquo;re here for. And you
have to remember what you&rsquo;re here for. And then you have to
remember that what you&rsquo;re here for is possible for you. You have
the capacity to be the holy Son or Daughter of God because that is who
you Are.

And you also have the capacity to override the belief structures, the
mutual agreements that you&rsquo;ve all entered into that cover over and
absolutely hide your divinity and your potential. You have the capacity
to override it.

Take time during this Holiday Season to be diligent and override the
invitations you constantly feel to join in suffering, in lack, in
poverty, in stuckness and disagree with it!

You are here to share the love with your Brothers and Sisters actively,
concertedly, just as you are being loved by your Father, by the Holy
Spirit and by me. You are here to remember the joyful sound and share
it. You&rsquo;re here to represent God by claiming your Birthright
received from Him and insisting on exercising no other rights that you
imagine you might have.

Gee, it would have been nice&mdash;&ldquo;I&rsquo;m supposed to be the
Christ&rdquo;&mdash;to have been born into a time when it&rsquo;s easy
to be the Christ. Well you know what? The time and the place where
it&rsquo;s easy to do that is the Kingdom of Heaven. And that&rsquo;s
not what you seem to be experiencing at the moment. And so, because it
isn&rsquo;t what you&rsquo;re experiencing at the moment&mdash;even
though it is the actuality of what is going on in the moment&mdash;you
have a task and a responsibility which you are capable of fulfilling.
And that is to be the Christ when it doesn&rsquo;t seem to be easy to
look into your Brother&rsquo;s eyes and remember God, when the last
thing your Brother feels like doing is remembering God because he is so
full of suffering from the austerity program or the lack or the
unemployment or on and on and on.

Nevertheless, your purpose remains unchanged and the potential for your
experiencing joy, you stand at the threshold of, absolutely. And so
I&rsquo;m encouraging you not to shrink from the opportunity, which you
might be seeing as an obligation&mdash;a hard job.

You know what? Every single one of you are worth my full attention: My
task, if you will, of bringing my full attention to you for the purpose
of seeing who you divinely Are, instead of who you believe you are, and
then stand with you steadfastly until the truth of who you Are registers
with you. That&rsquo;s why there was a Christmas morning. That&rsquo;s
why there&rsquo;s a Christmas morning this year. And that&rsquo;s why
there&rsquo;s every other morning this year, because there&rsquo;s only
one thing to do and that is Wake up and end the experience of suffering
because you already Are the Sons and Daughters of God.

And because you already Are, you need do nothing to deserve the
experience, you need do nothing to earn the experience. Not having it is
not a penalty laid upon you, but an experience of lack laid upon you by
yourself in your choice to have a different perspective from the Father
and to have a function different from the holy function established in
you for the purpose of your joy and your fulfillment.

The call for love is presenting itself all over your globe. At the
bottom line, it&rsquo;s a call for humanity &hellip; it&rsquo;s a call
for loving your Brother more than you love yourself.

Let the meaning of these Holidays in and out. And remember that all of
the wonderful words associated with Christmas: Joy, laughter, merriness,
holiness, that God loves you, all of these things are the things which
need to be given voice&mdash;and not their opposite&mdash;expressed with
conviction and commitment. You&rsquo;re not here to give voice to the
lie. You&rsquo;re here to give voice to the truth. You&rsquo;re here, as
I am, to give place, you might say, to the Father.

In doing that you fulfill your function. And in doing that you see the
Father&rsquo;s function in your Brothers and Sisters. And this blesses
and heals them and you as well.

That&rsquo;s the business of Christmas. Let&rsquo;s all be about it.

Again, I love you all. And I see all the things you see that are going
on. I see all the corruption. I see all of the lack. I see all the
mean-spiritedness. I see all the manipulation and control. But you know
what? I haven&rsquo;t lost my joy. And it hasn&rsquo;t caused me to
forget who all of you Are, who are in one way or another indulging in
this corruption and mean-spiritedness and negativity and so on. It
hasn&rsquo;t caused me to see you any differently. And it hasn&rsquo;t
caused me to stop speaking, and telling you who you divinely Are.
That&rsquo;s your task as well &hellip; that&rsquo;s your wonderful task
as well. Practice it and enjoy the spirit and meaning of Christmas.

I love you. I love you all.

