---
title: Dec 20, 2011
ref: "T18.2 The Basis of the Dream"
alink: "/acim/text/18/chap1802/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

You know, there was a reason that something came upon a midnight clear.
There was a reason that the Christ child was born. And it was for
something more than conveying to everyone that there was a God that
loved them while they were experiencing relative misery. There was more
reason to it than to make it halfway comfortable without changing the
miserable ongoing experience called, &ldquo;the human condition.&rdquo;

Everyone has used the Christmas story. Everyone has used my life as a
way to make the human condition more comfortable without realizing that
the whole point of my showing up was to convey something that would
cause an &ldquo;ah-ha&rdquo;&mdash;a realization that the human
condition was not your Birthright and was not what was natural to you
and that it was to come to an end. That it was to be
transformed&mdash;that your experience of being was to be transformed.

You know, I said, &ldquo;If you have seen me, you have seen the
Father.&rdquo;[^1]

And I conveyed that &ldquo;Those things that I have done you would do
and greater things.&rdquo;[^2] Why? A special gift to a poor mortal? No!
Because you&rsquo;re my Brothers and your my Sisters. We are family and
we have the same Father. We have the same inheritance. You were not
short-changed by the Father while I was given everything.

I came to transform your minds by presenting something that the
experiences of your ancestors weren&rsquo;t able to give you. They
weren&rsquo;t able to give you the steps out of the dream&mdash;the
steps out of the human condition&mdash;and yet, that&rsquo;s your
Birthright. And I came to present you with it &hellip; to change your
minds.

Now, what we are going to be talking about tonight describes the
Christmas Gift &hellip; describes the Gift I came to give. It tells you
how to step out of the dream. It helps you understand that you&rsquo;re
not bound, and how to step out of the dream.

It wasn&rsquo;t meant for you to not get the point for two thousand and
twelve years. It was meant for you to get the point when I was
there&mdash;when I was with you on the planet, while I was talking with
you. And it is the message that was supposed to get through with anyone
who managed to become defenseless enough to hear my voice down through
the two thousand and twelve years &hellip; so that what? [snaps fingers]
you didn&rsquo;t have to wait until two thousand twelve to Wake up! You
see?

The reason I came was to promote change. The reason I came was to help
inspire in you the desire to change, and not just continue to repeat
your ancestors&rsquo; patterns and thoughts and concepts.

Now, if indeed I came to teach you something, it means that you were
capable of being taught. It means that you have always been capable of
grasping what I am saying. It&rsquo;s always been possible for you to
grasp the Meaning of the Love you are embraced with by the Father. A
Love which, when you let yourself feel It, inspires you out of your
limited concepts&mdash;out of your willingness to just suffer through
the human condition with the inspiration that you let yourself have by
virtue of thinking about Christmas &hellip; thinking about the birth of
the Christ &hellip; thinking about the things that I said.

You&rsquo;re not to make suffering more palatable by means of what I
shared. You&rsquo;re supposed to let the things I shared [snaps fingers]
lift you out of it&mdash;out of the suffering, out the human
condition&mdash;and into the conscious experience of what? The Kingdom
of Heaven and your holiness, that&rsquo;s what.

And you know what? You don&rsquo;t have to wait until two thousand
twelve to do It. It can be tonight. It can be tomorrow night.

The Gift of Awakening isn&rsquo;t going to be given to you in two
thousand twelve. The Gift of Awakening was given to you by the Father,
in His Creation of You. And it was emphasized, it was embellished, it
was shared more completely when I joined you, apparently in your dream,
and gave you what it took to Wake up. And I&rsquo;m here tonight and the
Course is with you every day, every night for you to refer to and remind
yourself.

So let&rsquo;s remember, you might say, that what we&rsquo;re going to
discuss tonight was the whole reason there was a manger scene &hellip;
the whole reason there were wise men &hellip; the whole reason that
there was my life and my teaching and my involvement with my Brothers
and Sisters.

This is a holy instant. This is an instant in which the holiness of
Being, which it was my purpose to remind you of two thousand eleven
years ago. So let&rsquo;s not let the holiness of the instant
we&rsquo;re in escape us.

Now, just a moment &hellip; we&rsquo;re in a new section called:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*The Basis of the Dream*[^3]
</div>

Well, without reading, after all the discussions we&rsquo;ve had
together, what do you think the basis of the dream would be? What is the
basis of the experience of illusion that you have been taught you are in
the middle of?

The basis of the dream is the decision you made to get a divorce from
your Father. In other words, the basis for the dream is an imagination
that you can exist independently in your own right, coupled with a
decision to enact that with commitment. Such commitment, that it caused
you to neglect to remember, in other words, to forget your holiness,
your Birthright, Who your Father/Mother is, and the experience of the
Kingdom of Heaven.

In its place, as we&rsquo;ve discussed many times, you found the Kingdom
of Heaven, which was the only thing available to you to experience
&hellip; you found yourself experiencing it as the world and
universe&mdash;the material world and universe&mdash;you found it to be
all of the definitions you chose to give to it.

And so it moved you into a very active conscious experience that was
based in ignorance, that was based in nothingness, which you then filled
with the definitions you wanted to give everything because you thought
that making those definitions and making them real would make you real
in your own right, independent from who you really Were and unconscious
of Reality.

Now, that&rsquo;s the basis of the dream.

In that enactment you seemed to create a duality. Reality was
one&mdash;the Kingdom of Heaven. And alongside it, an imaginative state
of being in which through imagination, meanings were given to everything
in the Kingdom of Heaven, while ignoring that it was the Kingdom of
Heaven.

So there was the conscious experience of Reality, was one state of
Being, and the unconsciousness of Reality as another state of being.
Those are the only two choices that could possibly seem to have been
made. And it&rsquo;s Awakening from the two of them back into the
conscious awareness of the only one that is Real that constitutes your
Salvation.

Doing that is the whole reason that there was a first Christmas. Do you
understand?

So, it&rsquo;s not a complicated problem. The only complexity there is
to it is, all of the little intellectual defenses and beliefs and
confidences with which you have wrapped up all of your meanings that you
have given to the Kingdom of Heaven that make it seem to be something
else.

And it&rsquo;s getting you to release all these little definitions and
meanings and convictions and confidences that it is my task to do. And
the means of doing it is simple. It&rsquo;s the two-step, it&rsquo;s the
holy instant.

Therefore, you could say that the whole reason there was a first
Christmas, the whole reason the Christ showed up, was to reveal the holy
instant as the way Home&mdash;as the way out of the dreams and illusions
that you were bound by. That&rsquo;s the simplicity. That is the Message
of Christmas.

Now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
THE BASIS OF THE DREAM

Does not a world that seems quite real arise in dreams?
</div>

&hellip; night dreams.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet think what this world is. It is clearly NOT the world you saw before
you slept.
</div>

Meaning, during the daytime before you went to bed.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Rather, it is a distortion of the world, planned solely around what you
would have preferred. Here, you are &ldquo;free&rdquo; to make over
whatever seemed to attack you, and change it into a tribute to your ego,
which was outraged by the &ldquo;attack.&rdquo;
</div>

You see? In the daytime when you&rsquo;re awake in the real world,
things happen that make you feel vulnerable, that take advantage of you
that hurt you and you can&rsquo;t seem to do anything about it. But boy,
the moment you fall asleep, you have free reign over everything. You can
make everything be the way you want it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This would not BE &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in other words, a tribute to your ego which was outraged by the
attack &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This would not BE your wish unless you saw yourself as one with the
ego&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the ego&mdash;this one that is looking at everything and giving
definitions to it all by himself. You know, it&rsquo;s not an ego
&ldquo;out there&rdquo; different from you. It&rsquo;s just you behaving
inconsistently with what you Are and who you Are, ignoring your holiness
and defending yourself against all the misery you see when what
you&rsquo;re seeing isn&rsquo;t embraced by your holiness, but is
embraced by the fear you experience because you&rsquo;re ignoring your
holiness. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This would not BE your wish unless you saw yourself as one with the ego,
which always looks upon itself, and therefore on you, as under attack
and highly vulnerable to it.
</div>

Really relatively simple. Now&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Dreams &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that you have at night &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; are chaotic BECAUSE they are governed by your conflicting
wishes, and therefore they have no CONCERN with what is true.
</div>

You see? &ldquo;I&rsquo;m afraid &hellip; I feel vulnerable. And so I
choose to see everything as though it&rsquo;s against me&mdash;my wish
is to see that everything is against me. But at the same time,
there&rsquo;s something in me that I don&rsquo;t have a whole lot of
control over, called &lsquo;Love.&rsquo; And so it wants equality and it
wants to generate balance without abandoning the need to assert oneself
to protect himself.

So these are conflicted needs which are embraced side-by-side. And there
are many extenuations of that.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
They are the best example &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in other words, dreams are &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the best example you could have of how perception can be
utilized to substitute illusions for truth.
</div>

When you compare your daytime life to the dreams you have at night, the
dreams at night provide wonderful illustrations of the ego and of how
the ego works&mdash;how your mind works when it has chosen to ignore its
divinity, to ignore your Birthright.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You do not take them seriously &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; dreams &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You do not take them seriously on awaking because the fact that reality
is so outrageously violated in them becomes apparent.
</div>

In other words, the reality of your daytime activities when you wake up,
it&rsquo;s so obvious that what happened in the dream outrageously
violates the daytime reality, that becomes apparent and frees you from
whatever hold they had on you while you were having the dream.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet they are &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the dreams are &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; a way of looking at the world&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in other words, they are a way for you to look at the world
different from the way you&rsquo;re looking at it during the daytime and
suffering from what you can&rsquo;t control.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; they are a way of looking at the world, and changing it to suit
the ego better.
</div>

&hellip; to suit the you who wants to govern and determine what
everything is better.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
They &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the dreams &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; provide striking examples, both of the ego&rsquo;s inability to
tolerate reality&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; reality of the daytime. How do you know it can&rsquo;t tolerate
it? Because at nighttime it changes reality around to make you not
guilty, to make you not vulnerable, to put the blame &ldquo;out
there,&rdquo; to make the conflict seem to be not your responsibility,
while at the same time getting justice in your dreams.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
They provide striking examples, both of the ego&rsquo;s inability to
tolerate reality, and your willingness to CHANGE reality on its behalf.
</div>

During your dreamtime, you change all of the characteristics of the
reality going on in the daytime to suit you and to suit your purposes,
which are not at all in alignment with your Father or with your
holiness.

So dreams provide you &hellip; your night-dreams provide you with a
clarity about the ego and a clarity about the human condition.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You do not find the differences between what you see in sleep and on
awaking disturbing.
</div>

You don&rsquo;t. Sometimes a nightmare lingers. Sometimes a very fearful
experience in the dream lingers. But you know it was a dream. You know
it was different from the reality of your being awake during the day.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You do not find the differences between what you see in sleep and on
awaking disturbing. You recognize that what you see on waking is blotted
out in dreams. Yet on awakening, you do not expect it to be gone.
</div>

Let&rsquo;s understand that.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You recognize that what you see on waking &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the reality of daytime &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is blotted out in dreams. Yet on awakening, you do not expect
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that because it was blotted out in your dreams, it will be gone
when you wake up. You see?

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You recognize that what you see on waking is blotted out in dreams. Yet
on awakening, you do not expect it to be gone. In dreams YOU arrange
everything.
</div>

Obviously.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
People become what you would have them be and what they do YOU order.
</div>

Now pay attention as you read through this because you can understand
this and can see the actuality of it. And it&rsquo;s just a description
of the night-dream. Don&rsquo;t make it more complicated by trying to
apply it in other areas. This is a very simple explanation of the
experience of dreaming night dreams.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
People become what you would have them be, and what they do YOU order.
No limits on substitution is laid upon you.
</div>

You can make that guy the worst bastard there ever was or the greatest
saint there ever was, or any degree in between. And you can even imagine
that that one is schizophrenic and he can be the greatest guy one minute
and the worst guy the next minute. And you can make anything out of him.
You can make substitutions of what he is freely, with care-free abandon.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
No limits on substitution is laid upon you. For a time, it seems as if
the world were given you, to make it what you will. You do not realize
that you are ATTACKING it, trying to triumph over it and make it serve
you.
</div>

When you&rsquo;re having the dream, you do not realize that you are
attacking the world you were living in the daytime by determining that
it was something different, with different meanings that did not make
you guilty of anything, but made you the innocent one which justified
trying to achieve justice and make someone else guilty so you would be
exonerated, not realizing that the only way to be exonerated from
what&rsquo;s going on in the dream is to have your alarm clock go off or
have something in you rouse you so that you wake up on your bed and
realize you didn&rsquo;t need to be exonerated from anything because the
whole thing was a dream. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Dreams &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; night dreams, we&rsquo;re still just talking about simple
night-dreaming&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Dreams are perceptual temper tantrums, in which you literally scream, "I
want it THUS!"
</div>

You see? &ldquo;I&rsquo;m going to take charge here. I&rsquo;m going to
make things be the way they ought to be!&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And thus, it seems to be. And yet, the dream cannot escape its origin.
</div>

What&rsquo;s the origin of the dream? The origin of the dream is
&ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;d rather see things my way. Father, I want a
divorce. Father, I am going to determine for myself what everything
is.&rdquo; That&rsquo;s the origin of the dream. That&rsquo;s the point
at which you have convinced yourself that you became the authority and
that all the meanings you give to everything are the meanings they have.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Anger and fear pervade it &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the dream &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and in an instant, the illusion of satisfaction is invaded by
the illusion of terror.
</div>

Your dreams are never dependable. They&rsquo;re never stable, they never
ever provide a constant unchanging perspective, and when things change
suddenly, having no connection with what went before, you don&rsquo;t
even question it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For the dream of your ability to control reality &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; which is why you got the divorce in the first place &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; by substituting a world which you prefer IS terrifying.
</div>

You remember that we&rsquo;ve discussed the fact that the moment you did
that, two things came into play: Fear and guilt. Fear and guilt are the
flavor of everything that follows. They are the flavor and the context
of all of your dreams. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your attempts to blot out reality &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; by giving it your own meanings and definitions &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; are very fearful, but this you are not willing to accept. And
so you substitute the fantasy that REALITY is fearful, not what you
would DO to it.
</div>

That you do during the daytime &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you substitute the fantasy that REALITY &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your daily life &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is fearful, not what you would DO to it.
</div>

In other words, what you would do to it is not what is fearful to you,
even though that is what makes it fearful.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And thus is guilt made real.
</div>

When you said, &ldquo;Father, I would rather see it myself, I&rsquo;d
rather do it my way, I&rsquo;d rather give definitions to everything, I
want a divorce,&rdquo; God&rsquo;s reality became a fearful thing to you
because it tended to get in the way of your ability to determine what
everything is on your own. And it, coupled with fear and guilt, caused
you to perceive your situation as calling for defense on your part
against the God&rsquo;s honest truth&mdash;Reality, the Kingdom of
Heaven. When you said in response to that, &ldquo;The suffering
I&rsquo;m experiencing is not because of anything I did, but because of
all the fearful things I see going on in the world as I look at it
through my independent stance,&rdquo; you hid from yourself the
conscious awareness of what is Real. You established yourself in the
state of independence, which is flavored of fear and guilt. And in the
blotting out of your experience of what everything truly Is, you made
guilt real for you. You made the guilt that was inseparable from
independence, substantial and actual for yourself, because you blocked
from your view the way out. Simple as that.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Dreams show you that you HAVE the power to make a world as you would
have it be, and that because you WANT it you SEE IT.
</div>

Now, these are night dreams. They prove that to you. It happens with
every dream you have.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And while you see it, you do not doubt that it is real.
</div>

Right? When you&rsquo;re in the middle of the dream you do not doubt
that it is real.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet here is a world, clearly within your mind, that seems to be OUTSIDE
[you].
</div>

Right? You find yourself in the middle of a world that you are ordering
around, that you are creating with your mind and it seems to be outside
of the you, you experience in the dream. And it&rsquo;s a hostile world,
which you&rsquo;re getting the better of, and there&rsquo;s nothing to
stop you getting the better of one way or another, unless you wake up
prematurely and don&rsquo;t have a chance to get justice. [Chuckles]
Oh-h-h!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; here is a world, clearly within your mind, that seems to be
OUTSIDE. You do not respond to it as though you made it, nor do you
realize that the emotions which the dream produce MUST come from you.
</div>

Mind you, we&rsquo;re still just talking about every night, every day
&hellip; we&rsquo;re just talking about ordinary dreams that you
experience at night or whenever you&rsquo;re sleeping and having a
dream.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is the figures in the dream and what THEY do that seem to make the
dream. You do not realize that you are making them act out for YOU, for
if you did, the guilt would not be theirs, and the illusion of
satisfaction would be gone.
</div>

You&rsquo;d be stuck with the conscious awareness of what was promoting
all of this and you would not be able to blame anything else and you
would realize that a change in you is what is called for.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In dreams these features are not obscure. You seem to waken, and the
dream is gone.
</div>

Now here&rsquo;s the key point.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet what you fail to recognize is that what caused the dream has not
gone with it.
</div>

The pieces of the dream that you had at night has not gone along with
the dream when you wake up in the morning.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your wish to make another world that is not real REMAINS with you.
</div>

Now I&rsquo;m adding this: It remains with you because it was present
before you went to sleep. It was part and parcel of the way you were
experiencing the daytime the day before you had the night dreams. And
it&rsquo;s still there.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And what you seem to wake to is but another form of this same world you
see in dreams.
</div>

Now here&rsquo;s where the whole reason for the first Christmas becomes
crystallized because this is the message that I came to share to promote
Awakening out of the dream then&mdash;that was the point then. Let that
sink in. Because if you realize that that was the point then, you will
realize that it is still the point. And you will begin to engage or
participate in the meaning of Christmas in a fuller way than you have in
the past.

Listen again:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your wish to make another world that is not real REMAINS with you.
</div>

&hellip; when you wake up in the morning.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And what you seem to wake to &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your daily life &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is but another form of this same world you see in dreams.
</div>

So it&rsquo;s saying that you wake up from your night dream and in the
daytime when you thought you weren&rsquo;t dreaming at all, you&rsquo;re
still dreaming. And ultimately what you can glean from your night dream,
which is so utterly clear to you as to its meaning, you can transfer to
your day dream, which you call normal, awake mentality.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your wish to make another world that is not real REMAINS with you. And
what you seem to wake to is but another form of this same world you see
in dreams.
</div>

Here is the point of release that could seem to be difficult to accept:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
All your time is spent in dreaming.
</div>

&hellip; whether it&rsquo;s at night or in the daytime. That&rsquo;s
good news because once you accept that, once you consider it as a real
possibility, it is possible for you to be spontaneously released from
your way of perceiving everything that causes you to suffer and keeps
you bound to suffering. And the point is [snaps fingers] the release!
And the point of Christmas, [snaps fingers] that first Christmas, was to
cause that release!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your sleeping and your waking dreams have different forms, and that is
all. Their CONTENT is the same. They &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your night dream and your day time life, which is actually a
day dream.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
They are your protest against reality, and your fixed and insane idea
that you can change it. In your waking dreams&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and let me say this:  Don&rsquo;t listen to what I&rsquo;m
saying and consider the reality of it and then say, &ldquo;Wow, I must
really be insane! Wow, I&rsquo;m a lost soul! Wow &hellip;&rdquo; and
image all kinds of negative definitions about you that would simply
cause you to neglect to take a simple intelligent look, dispassionate
look at the nature of a night dream and then consider looking at your
daytime activities and see similarities in it and realize that just as
there is something to wake up to from your night dream there is
something to Wake up to from your day dream! That&rsquo;s the message of
Christmas.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In your waking dreams, the special relationship is your determination to
keep your hold on unreality, and to prevent yourself from waking.
</div>

Listen again:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In your waking dreams, the special relationship is your determination to
keep your hold on unreality&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and what&rsquo;s a special relationship? It&rsquo;s a
relationship you engage in with another while leaving God out. In other
words, it is a focused unintelligent practice which, at the bottom line,
hidden out of sight, has as its purpose keeping you unconscious of God,
keeping you unconscious of your divinity, keeping you unconscious of
your partners or the divinity of the one you&rsquo;re in relationship
with. You see? That&rsquo;s what a special relationship is. It has, as
its bottom line function, the purpose of keeping you absolutely
unconscious of what it takes to Wake up. Simple. Don&rsquo;t let it get
more complicated than that. In that clarity it&rsquo;s easy to change
your mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In your waking dreams, the special relationship is your determination to
keep your hold on unreality, and to prevent yourself from waking. And
while you see more value in sleeping than in waking, you will not let go
of it.
</div>

That&rsquo;s destructive! That&rsquo;s destructive!

The answer to that is the two-step, the holy instant, which is the means
of letting in the experience of a holy relationship because you&rsquo;ve
chosen to abandon your independence and say, &ldquo;Father, what is the
truth here? Holy Spirit, help me look at this one I&rsquo;m in
relationship with and remember &hellip; not what he did yesterday, not
what he did ten years ago, not what his whole family has done to my
family for generations, but what is the truth about him now? Help me
have the experience of who he truly Is, free of my definitions and
confidences and arrogant judgments of him. I want to know the truth. I
want to look at him or her and I want to remember God.&rdquo;

Now:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit, ever practical in His wisdom, accepts your dreams, and
uses them as means for waking. YOU would have used them to remain
asleep. We once said that the first change, before dreams disappear, is
that your dreams of fear are changed to happy dreams. That is what the
Holy Spirit does in your special relationship.
</div>

&hellip; and brings it into focus more specifically as you insist on
remaining true to the revealing of what is Real that the Holy Spirit
brings to you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He does not destroy it, nor snatch it away from you. Your special
relationship will remain, not as a source of pain and guilt, but as a
source of joy and freedom.
</div>

Of course:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It will not be for you alone, for therein lay its misery.
</div>

You see? The human condition: That which called forth the
&ldquo;midnight clear&rdquo; and the &ldquo;manger&rdquo; and the
&ldquo;wise men&rdquo; &hellip; that which brought it forth was that the
correction of your divorce from your Father and your insistence upon
independence would be corrected and you would be freed of undeserved
misery and an undeserved, unconsciousness of your holiness as an
experience.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your special relationship will remain, not as a source of pain and
guilt, but as a source of joy and freedom. It will not be for you alone,
for therein lay its misery. As its unholiness kept it a thing apart, its
holiness will become an offering to everyone.
</div>

&ldquo;Peace on Earth, goodwill toward men.&rdquo; A change of
perception, a change of behavior, a change in which you consider and
experience your Brother and Sister that doesn&rsquo;t call on anything
other than peace on Earth, goodwill toward men. Goodwill &hellip; that
thing that happens when you look in your Brother&rsquo;s eyes and
remember God. That&rsquo;s the meaning of &ldquo;Goodwill toward men
&hellip;&rdquo; toward your Brother, toward your Sister, toward your
enemy.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your special relationship &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; having been given over to the Holy Spirit by your practice of
the holy instant &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; will be a means for undoing guilt in everyone blessed through
your holy relationship.
</div>

Blessed by your getting the Christmas message, by your getting the point
today, here, now.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It will be a happy dream, and one which you will share with all who come
within your sight.
</div>

You know, when you see something clearly and when you&rsquo;re filled
with joy, you can&rsquo;t help but share it, it just happens. And
sometimes it&rsquo;s your lack of speaking, your lack of doing something
in a circumstance that another recognizes you ordinarily would have had
great reaction with, great volatility and they are blessed because they
know the difference and they are glad to have been with you in that
moment and not experienced &ldquo;the old you.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Through it, the blessing which the Holy Spirit has laid upon it will be
extended. Think not that He has forgotten anyone in the purpose He has
given you.
</div>

It&rsquo;s not a special gift. It&rsquo;s not something you&rsquo;re
getting exclusively. Man, when you get His gift, when you feel the truth
of God&rsquo;s Perspective, everyone is touched by it. It&rsquo;s that
simple.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Think not that He has forgotten anyone in the purpose He has given you.
And think not that He has forgotten you to whom He gave the gift.
</div>

For what you give you get to keep. You are blessed by that which you
bless others &hellip; that you are blessed by having received because
you chose to abandon your independence and say, &ldquo;Father,
what&rsquo;s the truth here? Holy Spirit, help me look in my
Brother&rsquo;s eyes and remember what&rsquo;s really
there&mdash;remember God.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He uses everyone who calls on Him as means for the salvation of
everyone. And He will waken everyone through you who offered your
relationship to Him.
</div>

And what if it&rsquo;s not just you, but you &hellip; and you &hellip;
and you &hellip; and you &hellip; and everyone doing this?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you but recognized His gratitude! Or mine through His!
</div>

&hellip; or the rest of the Brotherhood who is experiencing the
transformation of you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For we are joined as in one purpose, being of one mind with Him.

Let not the dream &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the dream, the day dream that you are experiencing as a result
of not having fallen asleep at night but as a result of having claimed
independence from your Father.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Let not the dream &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the day dream &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; take hold to close your eyes. It is not strange that dreams can
make a world that is unreal.
</div>

That&rsquo;s not strange.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The WISH to make it is incredible.
</div>

The wish to make a world that is unreal is what&rsquo;s
insane, is what&rsquo;s impossible to accomplish, making it incredible,
not credible, and outlandish.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your relationship has become one in which the wish has been
removed&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; when you engage in the holy instant and establish a holy
relationship and let it infill you. When you do &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your relationship has become one in which the wish &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; to make a world that is unreal.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your relationship has become one in which the wish has been removed,
because its purpose has been changed from one of dreams to one of truth.
</div>

Now, when it happens, you are not sure of this because you think it may
be this &ldquo;the happy dream&rdquo; when everything seems to be going
beautifully and it has new meaning for you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You are not sure of this because you think it may be THIS that is the
dream. You are so used to choosing between dreams you do not see that
you have made, at last, the choice between the truth and ALL illusions.
</div>

Because that isn&rsquo;t clear to you, it&rsquo;s possible to think that
the transition itself is a dream and that you haven&rsquo;t really begun
to Awaken.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet Heaven is sure. This is no dream. Its coming means that you have
chosen truth, and it has come because you have been willing to let your
special relationship meet its conditions.
</div>

&hellip; the conditions of Heaven. You&rsquo;ve let your relationship
meet its conditions because you&rsquo;ve said, &ldquo;I want to know the
truth, Father. I want to have the experience of the Reality, the
holiness of my Brother, Holy Spirit. Help me.&rdquo; You see? When you
do that, you are relaxing, you are yielding up your control so that your
relationship might meet the conditions of Heaven blessing you, blessing
your Brother and blessing everything and everyone.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In your relationship, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; where you have grasped the meaning of Christmas, engaged in the
holy instant&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the Holy Spirit has gently laid the real world; . .

&hellip; the Holy Spirit has gently laid the real world; . .
</div>

&hellip; in your relationship. And think about it: If your relationship
isn&rsquo;t exclusive but shared with the whole Brotherhood, then
it&rsquo;s in that universal context that the Holy Spirit has gently
laid the real world, and more unity is experienced and more joy is felt
because more of the Brotherhood is joined and loneliness, for lack of
contact, is no longer being felt by those who were Awake.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In your relationship, the Holy Spirit has gently laid the real world;
the world of happy dreams, from which awaking is so easy and so natural.
For as your sleeping and your waking dreams represent the same wishes in
your mind, so do the real world &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the God&rsquo;s honest Real world, the Kingdom of Heaven
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and the truth of Heaven join in the Will of God. The dream of
waking is easily transferred to its reality. For this dream comes from
your will joined with the Will of God. And what this Will would have
accomplished has never NOT been done.
</div>

What does that mean? It means you are neither behind the point of
perfection, nor advancing toward it. You are at that point and must
understand yourself therefrom. And that is the meaning of Christmas.

Let it bless this Holiday Season. I love you all. And I look forward to
being with you next time.

[^1]: John 14:9
[^2]: John 14:12
[^3]: T18.2 The Basis of the Dream

