---
title: Aug 18, 2007
ref: "Discussion"
---

Welcome back. This is me Paul. I don't think we're going to be getting
into the book tonight, but He could surprise me.

I just want to say before we begin, to everybody here and those
listening on the internet, that I am well. I've actually been well,
let's say, recuperated from the surgery since, lets say, March. But I've
had an interesting experience which I'm not going to go into at any
length right now. I've had an interesting experience of coming out of
it, with a new sense of myself&mdash;that I can't yet explain. Um,
things that were important to me, are not important to me. Things that
weren't so important to me are important to me now.

So as to be a little bit helpful, I'll explain by saying that for one
thing, I found myself not really charmed by or interested in wonderful
social chit-chat. My habit in the past has been to be a
socially-friendly person. AndI can see now that I've had styles of
behavior when I'm socializing which now, is very clear to me were false.
They were there to make an impression. They didn't express me genuinely.
I have been since December, rather private. One of the reasons being
that, if I were to get involved with people I would end up saying what I
really felt and my Guidance hasn't said that doing that was appropriate
yet. And I believe that it&rsquo;s because I would be doing it from a
place of emotion rather than from a place of quiet peaceful, grounded
perspective.

It's a strange experience to find yourself being differently. And it's
made me think a lot about what Raj has been saying, especially from July
on to Decemberof last year when he spent a lot of time talking about me.
Because the topic was healing&mdash;a great deal of it was about healing
and that healing is another word for correction, which the course speaks
a lot about. Correction, meaning actually being involved in being
changed. And somehow, through the time thatI was in the hospital, change
occurred and I have experienced myself as I said briefly, in new ways.

It's not uncomfortable&mdash;I do not find it uncomfortable, but I don't
know how to play my old games well from this new experience of who I am.
And so I found myself at a loss, feeling incompetent. I can't get
control of the situation quickly because the me that I am now, doesn't
want the kind of control I used to want. And I only know how to get the
control I used to want. And so, situations require me to draw from some
new sources. No, it causes me to draw from a Source I've been familiar
with which haven't been my old resources. And that's the key.

I, in the way I find myself experiencing being now, really have to ask
Raj, what is appropriate? What does this mean? How do I respond?

In a way, the Paul that Raj was describing that went to Disneyland,
disappeared. And I guess what I'm learning is, that just as when we
start a Gathering, I say: I allow only for that which expresses the
Christ Consciousness, and I allow only for that which is in harmony with
the purpose of Being, meaning God, and I continue &hellip; in other
words, Thy Will, not mine be done. Let the reign of divine truth, life
and love, be established in me and rule out of me all self-will.

Those are strong words&mdash;sort of like the word "extinction" is a
strong word. &hellip;and rule out of me all self-will. Wow,
Nevertheless, at the beginning of each Gathering, I always said that.
And then finished, &hellip;and may thy word enrich the affections of all
mankind and govern them.

See, I've invited His word to enrich my affections and govern me, and it
ends by wishing the same thing for everyone else.

Now, I've done that at the beginning of each Gathering. Since December,
it's like I'm being required to start every day with that whether
anybody's around to hear me talk or not. It's like that's the
requirement. It isn't what I feel inclinedto spontaneouslydo. And I
suppose I'm sharing this because I know thatwhat I'm going through is
part ofcorrection occurring. And is part of healing occurring. Not
healing of what I went into the hospital for&mdash;but healing of the
use ofmy mind&mdash;healing ofthe use I&rsquo;m putting of my mind to.
So that my mind is changed. And as a result of that, my experience of
everything is changed. Why is my experience of everything changed?
Because I can't respond to it out of my old habits. So I have to be
present without any confidence as to what is appropriate. I have to be
present in the experience with an enquiring mind that says, "What is
appropriate now?" I have to stand there letting divine truth, life and
love be established in me and rule out of me all of my old inclinations
to take hold with all of my old habits of being sociable andpresentable
and respectable, and never offending anyone.

So, it's one thing, once a week or at Gatherings to sit down and make
commitment to "ThyWill, not mine be done." It's another thing to engage
in thatevery day. As many of you know, Raj has been saying for along
time to me, "Let Me respond to everything." In other words, I am to turn
to Him and let Him respond to the Gas Station attendant, or the grocery
clerk, or the friends, or the ones who want to be sociable and
meaningless and silly, and so on and so forth.

And you know what? My conclusion here may be false, but it's my sense
thatthere aren't thousands of people clamoring to listen to Raj because
Raj doesn't please everyone's egos. Raj puts everyone else as well as
me, right on the threshold of being willing to acknowledge that we don't
know what anything means&mdash;that we don't know what anything is
really for. And, that as long as we're trying to behave on the basis of
developed habits of socializing, we will not allow for what we genuinely
are to come forth. And we will not be out from the Place of Excellence
in us that is utterly original, never repetitive.

And so, if one is going to listen to what Raj is saying and implement
it, it is going to mean that we're all going to have to stand in any
moment in our day, whether we judge things to be going well or not, and
reach for Knowing that goes beyond our best judgments and our best
thinking habits. And stand in that vulnerable place where the miracle
can occur. What's the miracle? A sudden shift of perception. A change in
our mind. A change in the way we are looking. A change in the way we're
willing to perceive. A being made new.

So, again, since last December, although I've had wonderful physical
healing, I have had a not-so-fun time of adjusting to not being in
charge from my head and of having to dare to step out into the unknown
many times during the day, rather than once a week when Raj is going to
talk. So it hasn't been the most fun, but I'll tell you something: I
feel like progress is occurring. I feel changeoccurring&mdash;not
self-directed change but change that is coercing me in my intention to
live out old habits&mdash;to abandon them and not operate on the basis
of the comfort that they have always provided me.

And so for whatever it&rsquo;s worth, I can today, which I couldn't do
last November, look at any one of you and say, let it be rough if
it&rsquo;s rough, the only thing that makes it rough is the reluctance
you bring into play&mdash;the resistance you present to being changed.
It's worth it. And just because it&rsquo;s roughdoesn't mean you're
doing something wrong. It means something truly right is happening and
your ego doesn't like it at all! And that's all it means.

So, I've missed these get-togethers and I'm really glad to be together
with everyone again. So, let's take a few moments to be quite and find
out what Raj has to say.

(quiet time) RAJ: Good Evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s
joining us on the internet. Well, what a wonderful bunch of bullshit
Paul just delivered to you. I say that because who on earth was he
speaking to? He was speaking to all you orphans out there giving you
encouragement as to what you might experience in the last stages of your
orphanhood; and perhaps to inspire you to listen to Guidance a little
bit more than you&rsquo;ve been inclined to, which isn&rsquo;t a bad
point. But he demonstrated what all of you easily get caught in. You
get caught in a sense of self that is progressing&mdash;getting better
and better. And you poor ones who are getting better and better just
got a wonderful pep talk apparently from someone who&rsquo;s getting
better and better. Right?

And, as long as you don&rsquo;t catch that when it happens, you&rsquo;re
stuck in the state of being an orphan. There&rsquo;s no way for there to
be progress. Paul slipped right back into his old sociable habit of
being friendly and being nice and saying intelligent things that were
couched in language that was, we&lsquo;ll say, inspiring.

But he was not in a position to look at what he was saying and describe
it as bullshit, which I did in my first sentence. The one who gave the
opening remarks is the one that&rsquo;s getting left behind; the sense
of self that this one has identified as Paul, in the past.

And who you presently think what you are is what you&rsquo;re going to
leave behind as you abandon your apparent capacity to speak
intelligently and oh insightfully and encouragingly and inspiringly.

You see, Waking up is a matter of abandoning that sense of
self&ndash;that improving sense of self&mdash;the one who&rsquo;s
refined his soul through centuries and lifetimes. You aren&rsquo;t that.
And you haven&rsquo;t been that. And you can&rsquo;t get out of being
that, because you never have been that.

And so you literally, and Paul was right about this, you literally have
to be willing to abandon that at the beginning of your day and as many
times during the day as you realize that you have slipped back. But
again, this won&rsquo;t be because the poor little orphan that you are
is becoming better and better.

When you go to a zoo it says: &ldquo;Please don&rsquo;t feed the
animals.&rdquo; And you need to have a sign on your refrigerator door or
on the dashboard of your car that says: &ldquo;Please don&rsquo;t feed
the orphans&mdash;don&rsquo;t nurture the orphans&rdquo; just to remind
you that you&rsquo;re not there to spontaneously be out from your best
thinking, your best habits, your best presentations.

You&rsquo;re there to treat each moment as though it is far more than
anything you are imagining. You&rsquo;re to treat every moment as though
it is Divine&ndash;Sourced from God&ndash;fully in that moment, and
therefore, a Divinely awesome event which it is your Birthright to be
experiencing awesomely.

The reason for having this outlook is so that you will constantly look
beyond your best current judgments and interpretations of everything;
because if you&rsquo;re not willing to look beyond&ndash;if you&rsquo;re
not willing to be incompetent to understand what&rsquo;s happening in
Its Fullness, you will not be open to the fuller experience of what is
going on. Now, we are going to resume reading the Course, but I&rsquo;m
going to ask something. I&rsquo;m going to ask all of you who are
willing&ndash;from this night on&ndash;to no longer think of yourselves
as students of A Course In Miracles. As long as you define yourself as
a student of A Course In Miracles, or a student of this, or a student of
that, you withdraw yourself from your relationships with your fellowman
into a very narrow interpretation of everything. It is as though you
provide a sieve that will only let things fall through that are of a
certain size, and the rest can&rsquo;t go through.

&ldquo;Oh, I&rsquo;m a student of A Course In Miracles. That means I am
not a student of biology. I am a student of this; it means I&rsquo;m not
a student of that.

A Course In Miracles better be, for lack of better words, an adjunct to
your being&mdash;and please don&rsquo;t misunderstand me&mdash;a human
being. I mean by that, an unpretentious, not special presence who
experiences certain needs, who knows what fulfillment is, and who exists
in relation to other human beings, who also are un-special.

In the lack of specialness, you can relate to each other without
falsehood, without pretense, because you haven&rsquo;t forgotten Who You
Are. The minute you say: &ldquo;Oh, I&rsquo;m a student of A Course In
Miracles,&rdquo; you&rsquo;ve forgotten Who You Are and you&rsquo;re not
wholly available to your brothers and sisters.

Now, in the simplicity of Being, you, right now, want to know what truth
is. You desire to know what truth is whether it&rsquo;s called A Course
In Miracles, or whether it&rsquo;s called The Bible or whether
it&rsquo;s a cartoon strip. You want to know the truth, because you care
about what&rsquo;s important. You care about what is of value.

Why do you read whatever you read? So that you might learn how to more
effectively be a brother to a brother; a brother to a sister; a sister
to a sister, and a sister to a brother.

I will probably offend someone with this statement, but I indeed find
many, if not a majority, of students of A Course In Miracles to be
consistently unkind to their fellow students of A Course In Miracles,
and to everyone, but especially to other students of the Course. This
can be equally said about chess clubs, members of chess clubs; any group
that might be formed. Here&rsquo;s a question for you: Can you become
still within yourself and hear the Holy Spirit speak to you? Can you
become still and hear your Guide speak with you? Some of you can. Most
of you can&rsquo;t. And you know what? Those of you who can&rsquo;t have
no grounds for being arrogant with your fellow students of the Course,
or with anyone, because you&rsquo;re not doing so hot.

What it means is, that, we&rsquo;ll say, arguing with your fellow
students about a point of Truth is more important to you than connecting
with that Place of Excellence within yourself&mdash;the Altar within
you, where your connection with the Holy Spirit is forever functioning,
and where your connection with your Guide is always open.

If you&rsquo;re going to be happy, I want you to be happy for the right
reasons, not for reasons that are bullshit&mdash;meaningless.

Now, many of you, for the last eight months, have waited for this night.
You have waited for Me to return. You&rsquo;ve waited for Paul to be
able to let Me speak. And many of you, when you found that we were going
to get together this evening, were overjoyed. Well, you know what? I
want you to overjoyed when you hear Me within yourself.

I&rsquo;m not demeaning your recognition of the value of what transpires
in these circumstances, but don&rsquo;t be happy for the wrong reasons.

Be happy that I am here, tonight, expressing these ideas that put you in
the position of having to go within to this so-called Altar that you may
never have experienced before. Somebody just told you there was an Altar
in the center of your being, placed there by God. Well, isn&rsquo;t that
wonderful! That could be bullshit too, and you&rsquo;ll never know until
you go within with commitment, and with resolve, and with a genuine
spirit because you really need to know the truth about something, and
you don&rsquo;t know it on your own.

It&rsquo;s in that place of vulnerability and incapacity that your
desire becomes full enough to get a response, if I may put it that way,
because you&rsquo;re not messing around. You&rsquo;re not
bullshittin&rsquo; God. You&rsquo;re being real within yourself.

When Paul sat down tonight, after eight months of not sitting down on
any night, he was nervous. But he had to put himself in that position as
he does every time he let&rsquo;s Me speak, of not knowing, of being
incompetent.

He even approached this evening with the attitude, &ldquo;Well,
I&rsquo;m not going to set a fantastic goal for myself.&rdquo; This was
what he said. And he was encouraged to do this by his son, Christopher.
&ldquo;I&rsquo;m going to do the best I can. And then I can&rsquo;t
fail, even if Raj never talks, and even if everything that happens is a
total flub.&rdquo;

Let&rsquo;s get this straight. The orphan will not be able to
confidently sit down and connect with his Guide. The orphan will always
have doubts. The orphan will be uneasy. In fact, it will never be the
orphan that sits down to listen to his Guide. But the orphan will be
there as the Real One that each One of you is, sits down to talk to his
Guide. And that orphan will kibbitz you and say: &ldquo;Probably
isn&rsquo;t going to work. Oh, c'mon, you know there really aren&rsquo;t
such things as Guides. You know these people are all fooling themselves,
who are in touch with their Guides. Oh, they&rsquo;re just really just
fanatics who say they&rsquo;re overcome by the Holy Spirit.&rdquo;

The orphan joins you as you sit down to listen. Because the only one who
will sit down, to actually listen, to learn, to connect with the
experience of Truth, is the Divine One that You Are, Who is registering
in your mind enough to cause you to abandon the instructions that your
ego is giving you&ndash;to abandon the habits that the orphan, that you
had thought you were has been bringing into play, over and over again,
that keeps you from waking up.

Now, when you sit down and desire to know the truth, when you sit down
and are willing to abandon your best judgments and your social habits of
behavior and the costume you have been wearing, and you are present in
whatever circumstance is going on, without preconceptions, with a true
desire to know how to be appropriate&mdash;how to be utterly appropriate
and to identify fulfillment in that moment, you will be infilled if you
genuinely desire to know. If you are more intent on Knowing than being
influenced by the orphan sense of self that you have thought you were,
which is kibitzing you and discouraging you. What you bring yourself
fully to will open up to you fully. What you bring yourself to in part,
in a carefree abandon, in a silly irrelevance, you will get nothing
from. Nothing will open up to you.

Usually, that which causes you to desire to know something
unequivocally, is an experience of need that has overwhelmed your
arrogance&mdash;that in you which thinks it can handle anything. Need,
that causes you to experience need, rather than triggering confidence
that you have, causes you to be Real&mdash;causes you to be genuinely
honest within yourself.

Unfortunately, need is one of the few things that will cause you to
arrive at that kind of inner commitment and genuine honesty. And
it&rsquo;s a shame, but it&rsquo;s better than nothing bringing you to
it. So be grateful when the time comes. Be grateful when you really are
forced to lean into and rely upon Something other than your best goddamn
sense of who you are in this world and who you have turned yourself into
and made yourself to be.

&ldquo;Well, so you want me to give up everything meaningful? Um, can
You make it any more palatable than that, please?&rdquo; No. You can
make it easier for yourself by daring to risk the chance that
there&rsquo;s a God without having to get at the end of your rope, and
without feeling need so greatly that you have to abandon any capacity
you thought you had to cope with it, and ask for help, while you still
think you do have the capacity to cope with it.

You can make it easier for yourself by abandoning the capacity to cope
that you think you have, and asking for help&mdash;asking for a miracle.
Asking for the Holy Spirit or your Guide, or Me, or the Father, to bring
about a sudden shift of perception&ndash;a changed mind; not at your
hand, but at the Hand of the Father. At the Hand of One who Knows who
you really Are, and will help change your mind, bringing it into
alignment with the truth about you, so that you are strengthened by your
own clearer experience of the Real You, and what makes it real and what
makes it of value.

You know what? The Course In Miracles is not so great. What&rsquo;s in
it can promote stuff in you that&rsquo;s great. It can promote in you a
capacity to be willing to be with your brother or sister, without
arrogance, coming from a simple genuineness of Love within you, that
allows you to feel the need your brother has and not discount it. And to
want to know what would meet the need, not so that you can escape
anything, but so that you can be present, as need is transformed into
correction&mdash;need is transformed into healing.

Why? Not because you have magic words of truth or well-developed
spiritual power, but because you found it more valuable than anything
else, to be willing to be present in the presence of the experience of
need, and not try to escape it, and wish to know the Truth. Not the
Course in Miracles truth, not the Catholic truth, not the Christian
Science truth. Truth Itself. Truth. Truth is what God Is Be-ing at any
given moment, in any given spot. You want to know the truth. You see,
truth isn&rsquo;t an intellectual string of words. Truth is the
experience of what&rsquo;s Real. Truth is the Experience of What God Is
Be-ing. Truth is the experience of what Good is Be-ing right here, right
here, right there.

Your brother&rsquo;s need isn&rsquo;t going to be met by a string of
words, but by an Experience of what is true, an experience of what God
Is Be-ing right there in their experience.

And you can have no idea on your own what will cause that miracle to
occur&mdash;that sudden shift of perception. But you can be the Presence
of Love that cares enough to not hold your dear book learning up in your
brother&rsquo;s face to heal him with, but to value what you read there
enough to be present with your brother Be-ing the Presence of Love;
Be-ing the Presence of the desire to Know the truth that will constitute
the correction, by being willing to be a brother or a sister in all the
fullness of the Meaning of those words.

The Presence of Living Love that it is your function to be, is very
different from being the presence of the capacity to spout words of
truth which are only spouted because it&rsquo;s saving you from having
to get into that simple place of genuine genuineness, where you
genuinely feel need in the absence of personal capacity to meet the need
and reach out for help, because you care either enough about yourself,
or enough about your brother or sister to want to Know what will cause
change to occur; transformational healing, beneficial, truly beneficial
healing, and relief and release.

If you&rsquo;re spending more time reading a book than you are relating
to your brothers and sisters one on one, in a real and genuine way,
don&rsquo;t call yourself a student of Mine, because that&rsquo;s not
what I Teach, and that&rsquo;s what I&rsquo;m not here to encourage you
to do. I am here to encourage you to do that which heals.

Every single one of you who&rsquo;s hearing My Voice actually knows
enough&ndash; actually knows all you need to know in order to justify
not getting hung up on words and daring to turn to your brother and
sister with care, and with Love&mdash;those brothers and sisters who
come into your experience, who you find that you&rsquo;re faced with and
have to deal with, in finding them to be all the justification you need
for saying: &ldquo;Father, what do I need to know here?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Oh, well it&rsquo;s sort of a messy situation I&rsquo;m faced
with. Can&rsquo;t I just go sit down with my nice, clean little book
with all the pretty words that are so neatly spaced and they&rsquo;re
not disturbing, they&rsquo;re so orderly. I get peace just looking at
the page.&rdquo; You&rsquo;ll only be faced with a messy situation until
you stop thinking that you ought to be able to be somewhere else, doing
something else not faced with this, not being called upon to get into
that situation where you don&rsquo;t know what to do, and where you have
to acknowledge that you don&rsquo;t know what to do. And then, you have
to say: &ldquo;I ask that Place of Excellence in me&mdash;that
Excellence of my Be-ing, to reveal to me what will meet the need
here.&rdquo; And stick with it, genuinely, and I&rsquo;m going to ask
you to look up the word &ldquo;importunately:&rdquo;
I&ndash;m&ndash;p&ndash;o&ndash;r&ndash;t&ndash;u&ndash;n&ndash;a&ndash;t&ndash;e&ndash;l&ndash;y.
Importunately, with resolve, and steadfastness, until you get the
answer, because once the commitment and the genuineness is there and you
really mean your desire, as I said, everything becomes present that is
necessary for the situation to bring forth and reveal to you the
wholeness that is the answer to the need.

You watch Paul do this every time we get together. I wish I had a bell
to ring; a bell that would say to you: &ldquo;It&rsquo;s a wake-up call
here.&rdquo;

You need to do this. You need to do what Paul is doing. You need to put
yourself in that Void&mdash;in that place of not-knowing, and reach into
It with commitment and resolve, so that your hand is filled; so that
your being is filled with miracles&ndash;with sudden shifts of
perception, which will inevitably and unavoidably become manifest as
things to do in your experience, or steps to take, or places to be at a
certain time, in order for wonderful and unexpected things to occur
that, I&rsquo;m going to say, physically identify fulfillment beyond
your imagination. So that you can walk through your day and see what
you&rsquo;ve always been seeing, but suddenly you can see God in it. And
you can see that everything that you&rsquo;ve been confronted with has
been significant. And it&rsquo;s been escaping your notice.

So, I&rsquo;m just encouraging all of you to come down off your
pedestals and be real with each other and with yourselves, and do this
awful thing&mdash;of asking for Help, of asking for clarity, even though
you feel perfectly competent to cope with it all yourself.

It&rsquo;s this self-reliance&ndash;this isolated, private self-reliance
that effectively blinds you to Reality. And I can&rsquo;t put it any
more simply than that.

Now, I will be back. And I will tell you this again and again, and again
and again. Not to improve you, but I will say, to wear down your
resistance. To let that which seems foreign become less foreign because
it&rsquo;s more familiar, intellectually.

It&rsquo;s all right for you to be clearer and clearer intellectually
when the clarity is in closer alignment with Truth. Because when you are
moving into closer alignment with Truth, you are not moving into closer
alignment with your orphanhood and the developing of skill, at remaining
asleep a little longer.

So, I love you all and I look forward to being with you next week. And I
hope your week has a little rigor to it, rigor that you&rsquo;ve
brought, a strength that you&rsquo;ve brought in terms of determination;
determination to Know the Truth so that you can simply Be the Presence
of Love with your brother and your sister without any particular set of
words, without a teaching.

How many of you have had a hug from someone who really knows how to give
a hug? You didn&rsquo;t need a teaching to feel it. Concepts
weren&rsquo;t employed. I&rsquo;m talking about that kind of connection.

And I&rsquo;ll tell you, steer clear of a hug from a student of A Course
In Miracles and steer clear of a hug from a Catholic and steer clear of
a hug from an astrophysicist; from somebody who thinks they&rsquo;re
somebody. You see what I mean?

If an astrophysicist, or a student of the Course, or any of these try to
give you a hug, don&rsquo;t avoid them. Just give them a hug. You
don&rsquo;t have to take their structured hug. You can be the one, maybe
the first one who hugs them wonderfully and suddenly they feel what a
hug from a nobody feels like&ndash;a hug from somebody who&rsquo;s not a
Somebody feels like. And they&rsquo;re touched, and it makes them look
at their life a little differently.

Okay. You have the picture. Good night.

