---
title: Aug 25, 2007
ref: "T13 Introduction"
alink: "/acim/text/13/chap1300/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

There is a lesson in the Course that says, 

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Above all else, I want to see.[^1]
</div>

At the bottom line, this is the impulse everyone feels every moment of
existence. Existing, for lack of better words, at this point, is an
embodiment of the desire to see. Another way of putting it is, a desire
to understand&mdash;a desire to comprehend. Above all else I want to
see.

The next Lesson adds a little bit of the punch to it: 

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Above all else I want to see differently. [^2]
</div>

You could say, that as babies and as toddlers and children, you all
wanted to see and everything was a different seeing. Differentness was
constantly your experience and you were fresh to embrace what was
different. And you did not try to get everything to fit into the
perspective you had the day before. That came as you got older.

Above all else I want to see. And above all else&hellip; , now that you're
grown up, you have to add, "I want to see differently. I want to see
minus my conditioned responses to what I see. I want to see beyond my
best judgments about everything.&rdquo;

And then we have the prayer, words of Mine which Paul turned into a
prayer that was discussed at the last Gathering in December. I want to
see everything through your Vision. This is a prayer to Me. "I wish to
see&mdash;I want to see everything through your Vision, and I'm adding
the word, Jesus, which is your Gift to me from God."

Now this is a little bit more intimate and personal expression of what
you find in the Book of John in the Bible that says, Let that Mind be in
you which was also in Christ Jesus.[^3] It's more intimate and personal
because you're saying to me, "I want to see everything through your
Vision which is your gift to me from God." My Gift to you from God.

What you need to become free of are the definitions you each have put
into place, either all by your original little self or along with the
help of others&mdash;teachers&mdash;parents, who taught you definitions
which you accepted, and once they were in place, caused you to stop
looking with innocent eyes&mdash;caused you to stop looking with
curiosity to wonder if there's more here in this glass of water (holds
up glass of water) than what you're used to seeing; two different forms
of matter. But wait a minute, but maybe&hellip; maybe&hellip;it's two
different experiences of the energy of Spirit&mdash;the Presence of God.
A holy encounter with That which is divine. Ah&hellip; now you have
reason to be curious.

And I am asking you, I am encouraging you, I am inviting you to go
through your day every day with this attitude: "Above all else I want to
see the more&hellip; above all else&mdash;above all else that I'm
engaged in at the moment in my daily life, I want to see
differently&mdash;I want to see the more that is there." And ultimately,
the element that is essential that gets you out of your private arrogant
independent sense of self--that's quite capable of doing everything quite
well without any help. And that is, &ldquo;…above all else, I want to
see everything through your Vision&rdquo; Ah…abandoning isolation.
Joining, cooperating with an acknowledgement of: &ldquo;&hellip;which is your
Gift to me.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Um&hellip;something I didn&rsquo;t originate. It&rsquo;s Your gift to
me. Insulting as it is, You&rsquo;re asking me to let something in that
I didn&rsquo;t originate and I can&rsquo;t take credit for.  And
you&rsquo;re telling me that this might be life-changing, that this
might be transformational. I&rsquo;m not sure I want transformation that
doesn&rsquo;t occur at my hand&mdash;thank you very much, even if you
are Jesus. If you were really Jesus you would show me how to do this by
myself.&rdquo;

You wouldn&rsquo;t ask Me to do something that is insulting to Me. You
wouldn&rsquo;t ask Me to do something that is demeaning to Me. You
wouldn&rsquo;t ask me to do something that would put Me in second place
subservient to something else.

But, this Gift to you is a Gift given to Me by God to give to you.

&ldquo;Well, that&rsquo;s a very heavy duty convincing argument, Jesus.
When you put it that way, it makes it hard for me to discount it
offhandedly. But I&rsquo;m going to. I&rsquo;m going to put it off until
I feel more like doing this thing.&rdquo;

Now last week, I suggested that all of you stop thinking of yourselves
as students of A Course In Miracles&mdash;students of the words in a
book. But you know what? I do want you to take the ideas and be willing
to act upon them. I do want you to take the ideas that we&rsquo;re
talking about right now and act upon them by being willing, in spite of
your reluctance&mdash;in spite of your desire to continue a little
longer with your independence, to risk the chance that wanting to see
through&mdash;like through a pair a binoculars&mdash;through My Vision;
to risk the chance that looking at everything through My Vision, which
is My Gift to you from God, will annihilate sin, disease and death;
which will annihilate vulnerability; which will uncover to you your
incapacity to be hurt&mdash;harmed&mdash;damaged. To risk the chance
that if you actually were willing to join with me and see through My
Vision and abandon your autonomy, that war will end&mdash;that all kinds
of in-harmony will end. And, that whether it&rsquo;s this piece of
paper, or this glass, or that sound, it&rsquo;s a divine event embodying
the fullness of the perfection of the Love that God is Be-ing. That it
is an awesome event that will be far from dull&mdash;that will be more
satisfying than the word &ldquo;satisfaction&rdquo; has ever meant to
you before.

Would you like to levitate, would you like to fly, would you like to be
able to move from one place to another instantly? And I don&rsquo;t just
mean from one place on your planet to another but from one place in the
infinitude of Being to another. Are any of those things worth abandoning
your autonomy for? You think autonomy is synonymous with individuality.
Individual individuality, you think has a boundary or it wouldn&rsquo;t
be individuality. But I want you to think of it this way&mdash;here is a
way you might be able to conceive of it:

If you were standing where Paul is, or if you were sitting where Paul
is, and you had a view of the entire universe from this position in the
universe, that could be called an experience of individuality. If you
were to be sitting where Michael is sitting about five feet away from
Paul, observing the whole universe, that would be like individuality.
And yet, all that would constitute the difference would be, for lack of
better words, the perspective&mdash;the vantage point.

Individuality is not a private thing. (repeats) Individuality is not a
private thing. It has nothing to do with autonomy. You will not lose
individuality by abandoning the idea, that you, like Paul sitting in the
chair, are in the middle of a whole universe, but not the whole universe
yourself.

My point is this: When you abandon autonomy, your individuality can
become an all-inclusive universal experience. That&rsquo;s not loss,
that&rsquo;s gain.

Now, this chapter is called &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*From Perception to Knowledge*[^4]
</div>

Perception is constituted of the definitions you all have made up about
everything. Perception is what you have determined this glass is. But
what this glass is can be known, not just perceived as this definition
or that definition. &ldquo;Oh well, it&rsquo;s a pretty glass,
it&rsquo;s actually, more properly defined, it&rsquo;s a glass
mug&mdash;it&rsquo;s an attractive mug but not nearly as attractive as
some I&rsquo;ve seen.&rdquo;

You have definitions, perspectives, perceptions that have nothing to do
with the fact that this exists. And I&rsquo;ll tell you something: Seen
truly, it is as awesome as the glass that you would call an ugly glass.
Awesome, because its substance is Living Love. It is alive. It is God
expressing Himself there.

So how do you move from a perception of a glass to the experience of
Knowing the glass? That&rsquo;s what this chapter is about. So
let&rsquo;s begin.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
All therapy &hellip;[^1]
</div>

Oh dear, doesn&rsquo;t sound like much fun does it?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
All therapy is release from the past.
</div>

All therapy is release from the past. Well, that&rsquo;s not quite so
bad is it? (chuckling) Because one can release the past by means of a
simple choice. If making the choice requires encouragement, then it
could be called therapy. But &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
All therapy is release from the past. That is why the Holy Spirit is the
only therapist. He teaches that the past does not exist. A fact which
belongs to the sphere of knowledge &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; not perception.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">	
A fact which belongs to the sphere of knowledge, and which therefore
no-one in the world knows.
</div>

(whispering) no-one in the world knows. Makes it sound like that faulty
thing I wrote&mdash;that&rsquo;s a world that doesn&rsquo;t exist? And
you know that the past does not exist is fact which belongs to the
sphere of knowledge and which therefore no-one in the world knows.

Well, it all depends on where you&rsquo;re looking at the world from as
to whether you are in it or not. If you&rsquo;re in the world,
you&rsquo;re in the definitions you&rsquo;ve made up about the world:

&ldquo;Oh, this is a rough part of town&rdquo;&hellip;&ldquo;Oh, this is
a great part of town&rdquo;&hellip; &ldquo;The people here you
don&rsquo;t have to worry about&rdquo;&hellip;&ldquo;The people here you
really have to be careful about!&rdquo;

But someone who isn&rsquo;t in their definitions might be standing in
both places in his or her peace looking through My Vision&mdash;not
looking as a tiny body with little eyes through which it looks at
&ldquo;the big world out there,&rdquo; but as the conscious experience
of Being, you might say the Mind in which all of this is being
experienced this part of town, or that part of town, or the people here,
or the people there.

But the thing is, that when one is not identifying himself as a body,
and looking at definitions that have been created and embraced and
trusted, that one does not experience himself as being tiny.

Many of you have had experiences&mdash;momentary experiences of suddenly
feeling huge. Not physically huge, but all embracingly huge. And in that
experience, everything is part of you. And everything is at
peace&mdash;non threatening to you or to parts of itself. You feel
it&rsquo;s perfection. And you&rsquo;re not in the world because
you&rsquo;re not in the definitions you&rsquo;ve created about it.

Now, how do you get out of the definitions you&rsquo;ve created about
everything?

You get out of the definitions you&rsquo;ve created about everything by
inquiring of  Someone who knows better than you: By asking the Holy
Spirit. By asking Me. By reaching out to the Father and asking for their
Vision. You have to relinquish the trust and faith you have been placing
in your own best thinking&mdash;in your own best definitions, so that
you might be able to get beyond them.

So, the Holy Spirit teaches that the past does not exist. A fact which
belongs to the sphere of knowledge, of Knowing, and which therefore
no-one in the world knows; no-one caught in their definitions still
knows. It would be indeed impossible to be in the world with this
knowledge. As I&rsquo;ve said, when you have abandoned the perceptions
that you have developed for the experience of knowledge, then you
don&rsquo;t find yourself in the world. You don&rsquo;t find yourself in
the local where you&rsquo;ve suddenly had this experience of being huge
and where everything is part of you. And where the word,
&ldquo;place&rdquo; means nothing&mdash;and actually the word,
&ldquo;size&rdquo; means nothing. And you&rsquo;re not in something or
out of something. And you&rsquo;re not &ldquo;here&rdquo; or
&ldquo;there.&rdquo; But all of creation still exists and is still
available to you which you will still experience but not as though
you&rsquo;re in it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It would indeed be impossible to BE in the world &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; it would be impossible to be in your perceptions with this
knowledge. Because with that knowledge you would have abandoned your
perceptions. That&rsquo;s why it would be impossible to be in that
world&mdash;created or colored by your perceptions.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For the mind that knows this unequivocally knows also that it dwells in
eternity, and utilizes no perception at all.
</div>

&hellip; utilizes no definitions at all; utilizes no personal, private
function of the mind of reasoning and coming to conclusions and then
placing faith in conclusions and coming to a place of feeling credible
and worthy and worthwhile as an independent individuality.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It therefore does not consider where it is, because the concept
&ldquo;where&rdquo; does not mean anything to it. It knows that it is
EVERYWHERE&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and we could say that it knows that it is THE everywhere.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; just as it HAS EVERYTHING, and FOREVER.
</div>

Now, you can see that what I&rsquo;m talking about and what is being
described here is a movement into an experience&mdash;not an
intellectual grasping of an idea&mdash;not a development of the better
perception. But a new experience of everything that you&rsquo;ve already
been experiencing.

We&rsquo;re talking about making a shift. What&mdash;a shift in the way
you sit? A shift in the way you stand? A shift in the way you hold
yourself as you walk?

No. A shift in the manner in which you&rsquo;re choosing to look at
everything. A shift away from your own private
observation&mdash;evaluation&mdash;and conclusions, into an active
curiosity. As I&rsquo;ve said before, to see the more of what is here
than what you&rsquo;re seeing.

You see, that&rsquo;s why you have to say, &ldquo;Above all else I wish
to see&rdquo; and &ldquo;Above all else I wish to see differently! And I
want to do it the only way that is available to do it and that is, by
asking Jesus&mdash;by asking the Christ to share with me His Vision.
Because that Vision was given to Him for me by God.&rdquo;

Why? Why was it given to Him for me by God? Well, very simply, because
it&rsquo;s not your birthright to suffer. It&rsquo;s not your birthright
to not know who you Are. It&rsquo;s not your birthright not to have
available to you the incredible ultimate of what you&rsquo;re capable
of&mdash;not what you&rsquo;re capable of as an incredible private human
being, but what you&rsquo;re capable of because what you Are. What you
Are, not what you were raised to think you are.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The very real difference between perception and knowledge &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and you know that I tend to use the word Knowing more than the
word knowledge, but &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the very real difference between perception and Knowledge &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; or Knowing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; becomes quite apparent if you consider this: There is nothing
partial about knowledge.
</div>

There is nothing partial about the experience of Knowing. It is an
infinite experience. It&rsquo;s an all-inclusive experience.

In Australia, in the one of the Gatherings that we did there, we were in
a large room and the ceiling was not flat. It stepped up in
graduation&mdash;from a low outer edge of the ceiling to a higher inner
portion of the ceiling. And as Paul was sitting there and I was
speaking, Paul had the experience of the wholeness of the room and the
integrity or integratedness of the room. And what this meant was, that
where he could see the steps moving up toward the raised center portion
of the ceiling, where those steps of plaster and material were, there
was also open space below it that allowed you to see the shape and he
experienced the fact that that emptiness was full; was an integral part
of his experiencing the solid stepped up shape of the ceiling. And that
the two&mdash;the emptiness and the form, complemented each other
perfectly and were absolutely essential to each other. They constituted
a living partnership.

A living partnership. It wasn&rsquo;t just an arrangement of space and
solids. The two, for lack of better words, cooperated with each other.
And this was true of the exterior part of the building and the space
that went on out to the stars as it met the shape of the roof and the
sides of the building and formed a partnership if you will. Everything
was exquisitely engaged in a cooperative and conscious
act&mdash;infinite act of relationship. And it was holy.

It was a fleeting experience for Paul but it has remained indelible in
his mind. And it expresses what we&rsquo;re talking about here when it
comes to a shift of experience. Paul had seen buildings as long as he
could remember. So the building wasn&rsquo;t something new and the space
wasn&rsquo;t something new. But all of a sudden, it was unlike anything
he had experienced before. Because it wasn&rsquo;t inanimate matter and
empty space having a certain relationship because somebody decided to
knock together some pieces of wood and lathe and plaster, etc. No. It
was an experience of the Presence of God Being all there is right there
and everywhere. An experience that is available to him all the time even
though he does not yet experience it. And It&rsquo;s an experience that
is available to you all the time even though you don&rsquo;t choose to
experience it. You don&rsquo;t choose to experience it because most of
you haven&rsquo;t been told often enough that there&rsquo;s more to
experience.

But, if this chapter in this book is to mean anything to you
that&rsquo;s valuable, you must come to understand that this is what the
words, &ldquo;from perception to knowledge&rdquo; mean. Not from
perception&mdash;mental definitions, to knowledge&mdash;a mental
experience of permanent eternal facts; No. A movement from
perception--definitions of everything, to an innocent and fresh ongoing
willingness to look at everything without preconceptions. So that you
might see the freshness of the Movement of God in every moment in
everything.

But again, here&rsquo;s the hooker: You can&rsquo;t move from perception
to knowledge all by yourself. Perception is an alone-isolated on-purpose
act of independence. Knowledge, or the experience of Knowing, only
occurs in a joined state.

&ldquo;Above all else I want &hellip; above all else I want to
experience; to see everything through your Vision, which is your Gift to
me from God.&rdquo;

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The very real difference between perception and knowledge becomes quite
apparent if you consider this: There is nothing partial about knowledge.
</div>

That&rsquo;s what Paul learned in Australia in that Gathering.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Every aspect is whole, and therefore no aspect is separate.
</div>

There&rsquo;s not separate space and separate form.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Every aspect is whole, and therefore no aspect is separate. YOU are an
aspect of knowledge, being in the Mind of God. Who KNOWS you.
</div>

Now, because that&rsquo;s true and I&rsquo;m continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
All knowledge must be yours&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in other words, Knowing must be the natural state and function
and action of your Being.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
All knowledge must be yours, for in you IS all knowledge.
</div>

Why is all knowledge in you? Because you are the state of Knowing. There
can&rsquo;t be anything else in Knowing except what is Known.

Now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Perception at its loftiest, is never complete. Even the perception of
the Holy Spirit, as perfect as perception can be,&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in other words, the perception of the Holy Spirit is as perfect
as perception can be &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Even the perception of the Holy Spirit, as perfect as perception can be
is without meaning in Heaven. Perception can reach everywhere under His
guidance, for the vision of Christ beholds everything in light. Yet no
perception, however holy, will last forever.
</div>

Now this is very important: (Raj did not read title: THE ROLE OF
HEALING)

Perfect perception then, has many elements in common with
knowledge&hellip;

&hellip; in other words, perfect perception can involve the awareness of
that which can be known &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; making transfer to it possible. Yet the last step must be taken
by God, because the last step in your redemption, which seems to be in
the future, was accomplished by God in your creation.
</div>

Now, did that sound complicated? Let me read it again:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Perfect perception then, has many elements in common with knowledge,
making transfer to it possible. Yet the last step must be taken by God,
because the last step in your redemption, which seems to be in the
future &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; after all, you&rsquo;re workin&rsquo; toward it aren&rsquo;t
ya?&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; which seems to be in the future, was accomplished by God in
your creation &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; way back when…in the Beginning.

Now this really isn&rsquo;t that complicated. We&rsquo;re talking about
shifting from perception to knowledge. Perception is what you engage in
when you think that you&rsquo;re a private autonomous little piss-ant
human being born of a sperm and a egg&mdash;part of the process of
evolution on planet Earth, etc., etc., etc., you know,
perceptions&mdash;definitions, right? Perception is what you experience
when you insist upon acting private, claiming privacy. You can have
nothing else available to you except the experience of perception.
Perception therefore, is not something that can ever become totally
perfected. Because perception is held by something that doesn&rsquo;t
exist in actuality&mdash;a sense of yourself, a concept of yourself; a
definition of yourself that you&rsquo;ve made up and superimposed upon
what you already divinely Are. You&rsquo;ve found in reading the Course
many places where it says in so many words, that God must take the last
step.

Well, let&rsquo;s put it this way: When you got a divorce from God and
said, &ldquo;Father I&rsquo;d rather see it my way&mdash;I&rsquo;d
rather do it my way&mdash;Sayonara,&rdquo; you claimed an independence
that you couldn&rsquo;t really ever have and you behaved as though the
independence was actual. And you stepped away from God. You stepped away
from that which was your very Source. You stepped away from that which
was Be-ing you and continued to be you&mdash;Source you, even while you
were insisting on believing that you were quite independent and on your
own and doing quite well at it and feeling really good with yourself
about it.

The reason that the Course says that the Father must take the last step,
or that the Father will take the last step, is that at the end of the
undoing of your dream, at the end of the undoing of your attempt to be
something that you can&rsquo;t be, you yield your so-called right to be
an independent autonomous thinker&mdash;you yield that up to God. You
yield back to God. You yield back to That which has been all there is to
you since the Beginning. That&rsquo;s what it means.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the last step must be taken by God&hellip;
</div>

It might seem that it&rsquo;s the last step is being taken by God,
because when you arrive at the point where you take your last
independent step and you abandon taking steps forever, That which has
been Be-ing you forever, suddenly infills you. You are reminded by the
Presence of God of what you Are and you come back into your sanity. And
so in that sense, God takes the last step, because you&rsquo;ve stop
taking steps on your own. And in the absence of your private
self-assertion, God being all there is of you, is able to become your
experience once again. And you rediscover the meaning of the word,
&ldquo;sanity.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet the last step must be taken by God, because the last step in your
redemption, which seems to be in the future, was accomplished by God in
your creation.
</div>

What was accomplished? God Being you was what constituted your
existence. That was what was accomplished by God in your creation. And
that was what was never altered. And that is what will fill you
up&mdash;bless you, you might say, when you abandon taking private steps
yourself ever again.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The separation has not interrupted it.
</div>

Your fantasy never caused reality to be interrupted or altered.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Creation cannot BE interrupted. The separation is merely a faulty
formulation of reality&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; an imagination!

And oh, you&rsquo;re all so good at imagining. It doesn&rsquo;t take
much of an event in your day to cause you to run off with wild
imaginings about &ldquo;what she really meant or what she was REALLY
trying to say&rdquo; in spite of what the words were that came out of
her mouth, and on and on.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The separation is &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; or was &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; merely a faulty formulation of reality, with no effect at all.
</div>

But you want to know something? In spite of the fact that it had no real
effect at all, you are suffering from the effects of it. If you are
experiencing suffering in any form, you are suffering from the effects
of it.

Now, we need to take a moment to remember the great importance of the
word, &ldquo;need.&rdquo; Needs are like a fulcrum&mdash;they are a
pivot point&mdash;they are a place in which sudden shifts of perception
can occur. Or they are places where you can even, through using the
words of this book, turn yourself into a cold hard-hearted bastard or
bitch who self-righteously stands over and against his or her brother or
sister letting them know, &ldquo;Well, you created your
problems&mdash;you&rsquo;re not an innocent victim. What do you expect
when you do this and this and this? I can show in the Course
here&mdash;I&rsquo;ll be glad to show you in the Course here where it
tells you exactly what you&rsquo;ve been doing wrong and that you
can&rsquo;t really expect to have any different experience. Yes,
it&rsquo;s very clear-cut black and white. Uh-hm… So don&rsquo;t
complain to me. Get hold of your life and hey, you know, give me a call
when you&rsquo;re feeling better.&rdquo;

That&rsquo;s not a response to need. That&rsquo;s a way to avoid being
involved in the blessing that need holds out. You know, spiritual
teachings and especially the Course, are not here to help you not be
bothered by suffering.

How can I put it? You are here to alleviate suffering. You are here to
do something about suffering. You are here to be the agent for change
which brings about correction to suffering. You&rsquo;re here to get
your hands dirty! And become involved by what? Shifting from perception
to knowledge. By being willing to look into your brother&rsquo;s eyes
who is suffering, and not spew forth some crap&mdash;spiritual
crap&mdash;metaphysical crap! Course in Miracles hate!

&ldquo;Well, you&rsquo;re creating this for yourself! Well you know, you
don&rsquo;t even exist!&rdquo;

These are not healing answers&mdash;these are not corrective answers,
these don&rsquo;t indicate that an event has occurred, a shift from
perception to knowledge. They don&rsquo;t indicate that you&rsquo;ve
stood there and done what Paul and Susan are calling, &ldquo;the
two-step&rdquo; where something happens and the first step is that you
step back before you respond, and the second step is to ask God what
needs to be known here, or to ask your Guide, or the Holy Spirit.

You need to learn to do the two-step. All the time. Because,
that&rsquo;s what you are here for. You&rsquo;re here to come from
knowledge. You&rsquo;re here to come from the experience of Knowing
because that&rsquo;s your function. You&rsquo;re not here to breed more
and more perception. You&rsquo;re not here to father more and more
perception. You&rsquo;re not here to let your imagination go wild and
tell somebody exactly why they&rsquo;re suffering and that it&rsquo;s
their fault and then tell them to do something about it and walk off.
No. You must do the two-step.

Let me ask you all something: If you go where no correction is called
for, and you go there all day every day, at the end of the day what can
you say that you&rsquo;ve contributed? And what of your purpose for
being can you say that you have performed or expressed? Can you go to
bed at night and say, &ldquo;Well, today I got up and I looked for
places where need was occurring. I looked for places where suffering was
occurring so that I might do the two-step and bring to that situation
what would end the suffering. And did I hang in there with my brother
because he was worth my spending the time to do the two-step?&rdquo;

If you&rsquo;re brother is down in the pit, you have to go down into the
pit with your brother and walk him back out. And you may indeed go down
into the pit and say, &ldquo;I see exactly how you got yourself here and
because I see exactly how you got yourself here, I can show you the way
out. It&rsquo;s as simple as the way you got in.&rdquo;

That&rsquo;s evidence of shifting from perception to knowledge.
&ldquo;Above all else I wish to see. Above all else I wish to see
differently. Above all else I wish to see everything through your Eyes,
Holy Spirit, or your Eyes, Jesus. I wish to look through your Vision,
which is your Gift to me and you&rsquo;re giving it to me as you perform
in your function, which is your Gift to me from God. And you know what?
I ask for it, so that I might give it to my brother.&rdquo;

Wow, no isolation there, is there? &ldquo;I wish to see everything
through your Vision, Jesus, so that I might give it to my
brother.&rdquo; That&rsquo;s the Answer. The whole answer is embodied in
what we&rsquo;ve said tonight in what little we&rsquo;ve read in this
chapter tonight.

So, again I&rsquo;m encouraging all of you to get off your duffs and to
abandon intellectual metaphysical or spiritual pursuits and translate
all of this that we&rsquo;ve been reading and that you&rsquo;ve been
studying for years, into a new way of being that involves the practice
of the &ldquo;two-step.&rdquo; It really involves the practice of
everything that&rsquo;s in this book.

Oh, many years ago, there was a catchy little phrase that made
it&rsquo;s rounds… &ldquo;Engage in random acts of kindness.&rdquo; It
was a neat little thought-catchy so it would stay in your mind and
remind you that you could do spontaneous little things&mdash;random acts
of kindness. Not well-planned out kind acts, but a little nod of the
head, or a smile at somebody or opening the door for somebody or what
ever might occur, but for it to be a random thing.

Well, let the two-step be a similar thing to remind you during the day.
To remind you to find and see where need is occurring so that you might
be able to do the two-step and bring into play that which corrects the
need; resolves the need.

I love you all. And I look forward to being with you, not next Saturday
but the following Saturday.

[^1]: Workbook Lesson 27
[^2]: Workbook Lesson 28
[^3]: Philippians 2:5
[^4]: T13 Introduction

