---
title: Sep 9, 2007
ref: "T13.1 The Role of Healing"
alink: "/acim/text/13/chap1301/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

You know, when everything gets resolved down into a single simple point,
it puts everyone in the difficult position of having to shit or get off
the pot. When everything is brought down to one simple point, there
can&rsquo;t be any further wondering about what might be true,
contemplating what the answer might be, attempting to analyze everything
to come up with a plan to get to the ultimate point.

And you know what? We&rsquo;ve arrived at that place where it&rsquo;s
simple. We called it last week, &ldquo;the two-step.&rdquo; But even
earlier than last week, it was said, &ldquo;I of myself can do
nothing.&rdquo;[^1] And, &ldquo;If you have seen Me, you have seen the
Father.&rdquo;[^2] And, &ldquo;It is not I that doeth the works, but the
Father in Me.&rdquo;[^2]

All this book is doing is bringing you to the simple point of
realization that you of yourself can do nothing; therefore never have
done anything; that you therefore, are not a personal accomplisher; that
you&rsquo;re not an independent entity capable of authorizing life or
life situations, that in other words, there is no you there with power
of any independent sort. And that this doesn&rsquo;t render you
meaningless. It renders you meaningful on new terms. The new terms being
the original terms&mdash;the terms of Creation itself, which is, that
God Moved and the Movement was Creation. And God saw everything that He
had made and behold, it was Himself, it was verily God&mdash;it was very
good.

And what was Creation? Creation was the movement and the evidence of the
movement of the experience of being conscious! That is Life. Mind being
conscious is Life. And it is the meaning of Life for absolutely every
aspect of Creation. Every aspect of Creation. Not any aspect of Creation
is too miniscule to not embody the whole of what God is Being; to not
embody the wholeness of Mind. Mind that is not divided into tiny parts,
but Mind, the conscious experience of Being. That is what constitutes
the presence of even the most miniscule part of Creation.

And so, the miniscule part of Creation embodies the whole of Creation.
It embraces the whole of Creation&mdash;all of Creation is present there
consciously. And this applies to you too.

Do you want the drama and the mystery of life to be over? So that
you&rsquo;re not hanging out in the not-knowing place where suspicion
can arise and doubt can occur and jealousy can blossom and hate can find
expression because of the insecurity of it all?

&ldquo;Oh, but you know what? I&rsquo;m a member of this group&mdash;and
we&rsquo;re studying the Course and we&rsquo;re only half way through
the book.&rdquo; Or, &ldquo;You know, I&rsquo;m a member of an esoteric
group and we have been learning these specific conscious steps to
practice in order to arrive at a place where we can be joined and become
effective agents for change and we&rsquo;re only a quarter of the way
through that. Well what will I do if I don&rsquo;t have any reason to go
to meetings? What will I do if there&rsquo;s nothing to learn? How on
earth could existence be vital and interesting without mystery?&rdquo;

And really, at the bottom line, what you&rsquo;re all saying is,
&ldquo;How could existence be meaningful if there aren&rsquo;t any
situations or circumstances that I can take hold of and improve or help
or bring about constructive changes that will prove that I&rsquo;m a
valid and valuable and a meaningful presence. How will I be able to
prove anything at all about me if there&rsquo;s nothing to be done
except to be still and listen for the impulse of the Father&rsquo;s Will
in me, which I&rsquo;m told is really my will, but I don&rsquo;t believe
it. How could my will be a will that doesn&rsquo;t start with my
initiating a movement of some sort and effecting change of some
sort&mdash;or creating something that never existed before by myself
through the use of my capacity to originate ideas?&rdquo;

So you know what? We&rsquo;re at a point here where like I said, you
either have to shit or get off the pot. Either take on the task, without
grousing about it, of doing the two-step whether you think you have the
capacity or not, whether you really want to or not, and do the one
essential thing. Because anything else you do that you think is
accomplishing something, is a farce. And you are believing a farce. You
are indulging in a belief, not a fact&mdash;not truth. And your
involvement with that process is absolutely blocking your capacity to
cut through beliefs and arrive at the experience of knowing, or
knowledge, as we spoke of last week in this chapter which is called,
From Perception to Knowledge.

Now, I&rsquo;m going to bring up this unpleasant subject that we were
talking about last week and that is the importance of need.

Many of you think that you are successful, whether you&rsquo;re a
metaphysician, or whether you&rsquo;re a student of religion, or an
agnostic or an atheist. You think that success is arriving at a place
where you are insulated from need, or I&rsquo;m going to say, insulated
against need. You&rsquo;re successful if you&rsquo;re able to pay your
bills every month without difficulty and you&rsquo;re able to engage in
your activities without distractions of an unpleasant nature.

You may arrive&mdash;you may struggle to attain that insulation, and you
might arrive at your senior years, if we can put it that way, and
everything is the way you would want it. You can meet all of your
needs&mdash;you&rsquo;re even healthy. But a family member begins to
have a problem&mdash;a need. And you&rsquo;re there observing it and
you&rsquo;re even called upon or invited to participate in the
correction of the need and because of the circumstances it&rsquo;s
difficult to ignore the need. &ldquo;My God what happened to my plans? I
had arrived at a point where I was insulated against need and need crept
in and is disturbing my senior years. This is not fair. It&rsquo;s not
fair for someone else to be in my experience in a way that I can&rsquo;t
ignore when I had arranged not to be able to be in this kind of a
dynamic.&rdquo;

Well, that&rsquo;s how you find out that you had a plan and you had a
definition of success and that the definition of success was not to be
confronted with need but always wonderful fulfillment. Well, what did
fulfillment mean? It meant that you had blinders on, it meant that you
succeeded in getting a wall built around you thick enough and tall
enough to block out needs&mdash;to block out your awareness of needs.

Is that success, is that fulfillment? No. That&rsquo;s you becoming more
and more unconscious. That&rsquo;s you crawling into a smaller and
smaller hole separated from life. That&rsquo;s not success and that is
not fulfillment no matter how pleasant you managed to make your hole,
and ultimately, no matter how lovely the coffin is.

&ldquo;Oh,…&rdquo; and Paul has this feeling sometimes, &ldquo;I have
something important to do&mdash;I have a wonderful work to do. I
don&rsquo;t have time for these distractions. I don&rsquo;t have time
for this because it keeps me from doing my good work.&rdquo; Another way
to insulate against being attentive to needs. Why? So that you can do
the two-step. So that you can step back from your own self-confidence
about how you thought everything was to be and you say, &ldquo;Father,
what is the truth here?&rdquo; Not what is the truth about the
lie&mdash;not what is the truth about the problem. What is the truth
that is the answer to the problem&mdash;what is the truth that is the
correction to the problem? Not the correction to the person, not the
punishment to the person for the stupid things he did or she did.

But what is the answer that resolves the problem and, as it necessarily
must be, uncovers the dignity and integrity of the individual
who&rsquo;s having the problem so that the correction is experienced as
Love moving in their lives that unmistakably blesses them and
unmistakably identifies that there is a God and that God is not far off
from them but is at One with them and Loves them.

Now, it says here in the book &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The miracle&hellip;[^3]
</div>

&hellip; meaning the sudden shift of perception &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The miracle, without a function in Heaven&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning which has no function in Heaven &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The miracle, without a function in Heaven, IS needful here.
</div>

Suffering and need is the evidence of misperception or as it&rsquo;s put
in the Course, perception itself. Perception as opposed to knowledge.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The miracle, without a function in Heaven, IS needful here.
</div>

Without it, how could you possibly discover that you are now and always
have been, smack dab in the middle of the Kingdom of Heaven and missing
it completely?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Aspects of reality can still be seen&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in other words, right here where you are &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and they will replace aspects of UNreality.
</div>

What is unreality? It&rsquo;s perception. What is unreality? The
definitions you have made up about everything, which you are applying to
everything. Like pinning the tail on the donkey, you pin your definition
on something Real and you call it a new name.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Aspects of reality can still be seen, and they will replace aspects of
Unreality.
</div>

They can still be seen because no matter how encrusted everything has
become by the definitions you have applied to them, it hasn&rsquo;t
changed what they are. Therefore&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Aspects of reality can&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; still &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; be seen &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and, as you are willing to do the two-step, they will replace
aspects of unreality&mdash;they will replace the definitions.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Aspects of reality can be seen &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; where?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; in everything &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in this world that you call a &ldquo;material world,&rdquo; in
this world that some of you call, &ldquo;an illusion.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Aspects of reality &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; or I&rsquo;m going to say, &ldquo;the Kingdom of
Heaven&hellip;&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; can be seen in everything and everywhere.
</div>

Why? Because it is all the Kingdom of Heaven and never stopped being it.
It has been present&mdash;it has been ever-present, available to see,
for what it is.

Again&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Aspects of reality can be seen in everything and everywhere. Yet only
God can gather them together by crowning them as one with the final gift
of eternity.
</div>

Now we talked about that last week in different words when we spoke
about the fact that God will take the last step.

You could say, that when you pull off the last tail that you pinned on
the donkey, and now the donkey can be seen for the donkey it is, or
reality can be seen for what it is, suddenly God is in your face and you
can recognize God.

You thought you could make an ass of God by pinning a tail on Him. And,
in that act, usurp His position by becoming the creator of the
definitions of reality that you wanted to believe. And when you undo
that last tail&mdash;when you remove that last tail and the last
vestiges of a definition that you have applied to God, applied to
reality that made it look different&mdash;when that is gone, suddenly
what it is will hit you. Because you will have abandoned an intent and a
desire to alter reality by virtue by some unique capacity you think you
have or thought you had to be creative on your own.

As I&rsquo;ve said before, all you could succeed at doing was torquing
your perception&mdash;or torquing your knowledge and creating a
perception which was always a misperception. And misperceptions never
changed God or the Kingdom of Heaven, or you.

Now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Apart from the Father and the Son, the Holy Spirit has no function.
</div>

Well, let&rsquo;s stop there for a moment. Almost all of you are
familiar with the words, &ldquo;The Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost;
or the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit.&rdquo; And for the most
part, that&rsquo;s been interpreted to mean, the Father&mdash;God, the
Son: His only begotten Son, Jesus Christ, and the Holy Ghost&mdash;the
Holy Spirit. Three; a trinity. It is called the Trinity. There&rsquo;s
the Trinity, and then there&rsquo;s you in your orphanages sitting there
doing everything you can to make something of yourself.

Well, part of shitting or getting off the pot involves taking this
Trinity and neglecting to project it out there somewhere away from you.
Now that we&rsquo;ve been doing since we started reading this Book. The
Father, God, the Mind that moves and experiences its Movement as the
conscious experience of Being in His Movement causes what could be
called, Creation. It causes something to be experienced. And it&rsquo;s
called Creation and you are that Creation. And every ant is that
Creation and every butterfly and every leaf and every tree-trunk is that
Creation and each is totally conscious as I was describing earlier.
Each, no matter what size it visually appears to be, embraces the whole
of Creation as a conscious experience of Being.

So, the evidence of God is the Son of God&mdash;you and everything. So
now, God and you are inseparable. The Father and the Son are no longer
being projected out there as part of the Trinity different from you. And
Jesus Christ, the one you had been told was the only begotten Son and
therefore was the Son referred to in the Trinity, Jesus Christ says to
you, &ldquo;You are my brothers&mdash;you are my brothers and sisters,
we are family. We are all Sons and Daughters&mdash;offspring of God
equal in meaning and function and source and fulfillment.&rdquo; And the
Holy Spirit, as we&rsquo;ve unmistakably read, is nothing more than your
right Mind held in trust while you dally with the ego&mdash;while you
play around at being an independent private authorizer, creator in your
own right, separate and apart from God.

Now, part of shitting or getting off the pot involves, specifically,
getting the Holy Spirit off of the pedestal of the Trinity together with
the Father and the Son. But specifically, it&rsquo;s getting the Holy
Spirit off of that pedestal as separate and apart from you and daring to
re-own it&mdash;to reclaim it as your right Mind which you have not been
accessing because you have been insisting upon doing something it is
impossible for you to do: to be the creator instead of God and to deny
any indelible or unchangeable bond with the Father.

You must dare to let that Mind be in you which was also in
Me&mdash;which is also in Me. And that Mind which is also in Me that is
in you, that you must let be in you, is the Holy Spirit&mdash;your right
Mind; that Mind which Knows what God Knows. That Mind that doesn&rsquo;t
need to constantly go to groups and constantly engage in courses of
study that will bring you closer and closer to something that it&rsquo;s
not normal for you to have, but which you can attain.

It&rsquo;s time for you to stand in the face of need&mdash;not insulate
yourself against it, not turn your back to it, but face the experience
of need and do the two-step; enquire of your right Mind. Inquire of that
place of Excellence in you that we&rsquo;ve talked about. It is useless
to sit and think the wonderful thought&mdash;that there is a place of
Excellence in me&mdash;a place of Excellence in me. (chuckles) If you
don&rsquo;t know where it is, what difference does it makes whether
it&rsquo;s there or not? If you don&rsquo;t look for it, how are you
going to find it?

If you don&rsquo;t persist in looking for it because you&rsquo;ve been
told that it is there and it&rsquo;s worth finding out whether
that&rsquo;s a lie or not, you will remain stuck. And you might have to
read the Course three or four more times. Or you might have to take the
Course over again. You might just miss the point a little bit longer.
It&rsquo;s uncomfortable. Sort of like learning how to swim and having
your class at 8 o&rsquo;clock in the morning when the water&rsquo;s cold
and it seems so unfair to be forced to do something you just know you
can&rsquo;t possibly do anyway and especially to have to do it when
it&rsquo;s so damned cold. And so you argue against letting go and
learning how to swim. Discovering your capacity to swim.

You&rsquo;re being told that it&rsquo;s time for you to pay attention to
needs and to look at them squarely and instead of thinking what you
would automatically think about the needs, to step back, to shut your
mouth, to stop your mind from thinking and say, &ldquo;Father&mdash;Holy
Spirit, what is the truth here that will be the resolution of the need
and the reestablishment of that individual who is having the need; the
reestablishment of his integrity or her integrity in his or her mind.
What will constitute healing?&rdquo;

Well immediately your ego will jump in and say, &ldquo;You don&rsquo;t
know and there&rsquo;s no way for you to know. This is an unfair demand
on you!&rdquo; Well, it would be an unfair demand on you if you
didn&rsquo;t have the capacity to do it. You don&rsquo;t think you have
the capacity and at the bottom line you&rsquo;re strongly conditioned
not to want to think you have that capacity because it means
you&rsquo;ll have to abandon your well-fought for
independence&mdash;your capacity to make choices and makes things happen
all by yourself. And you don&rsquo;t really want to abandon that
capacity or invalidate it by engaging in something that will be called
&ldquo;a miracle&mdash;a healing!&rdquo; which you can&rsquo;t take
personal credit for.

You don&rsquo;t want that, or you&rsquo;re strongly inhibited in that
direction by your conditioning. And so, like the child who doesn&rsquo;t
want to stick his foot into the cold swimming pool to learn how to do
something he doesn&rsquo;t think he can do, you are going to have to let
yourself be in the position of looking squarely at need with the desire
not to go through all the thoughts you would have about that and decide
to hang in here until the resolving answer is revealed to you.

That&rsquo;s where we are. That&rsquo;s where we are in the book.
That&rsquo;s where we are in the learning. You know, how long did you
think you could go along just learning interesting metaphysical
intellectual points? It&rsquo;s time now to translate those into
transformation in your life. And it means, as I&rsquo;ve been saying,
daring to confront need rather than running away from it so that you
might find the blessing in it. The blessing in it lies in the fact that
it moves you, if its understood correctly&mdash;the need&mdash;it moves
you to a place of abandoning your habitual response, which is to come to
conclusions all by yourself on your own. And instead, do something
entirely different: Abandon the isolation by joining with That which
Knows&mdash;That which doesn&rsquo;t perceive: God, or the Holy Spirit,
or your Guide.

But I want to emphasize tonight, the Holy Spirit. Because no longer can
you hear the words, &ldquo;Holy Spirit&rdquo; and assign It a definition
of something outside of you. The Holy Spirit is clearly &ldquo;nothing
more than your right Mind.&rdquo; It&rsquo;s the real You. And you must
be willing to turn to the Holy Spirit, that which is nothing more than
your right Mind, and hang out in what for you, would be called,
&ldquo;the not knowing place.&rdquo; The not knowing all by yourself on
your own, and abiding with the frustration, the frustration of
not-knowing, as quickly as you think you would know, if you could depend
on your own best thinking.

Oh, you could have the answer right away and you could resolve the
situation whether it corrected or not, and be on your way, and be out of
the vicinity where need could confront you.

Be ready to be frustrated. That&rsquo;s like the child must be willing
to endure the cold water. The cold water isn&rsquo;t going to kill him.
It&rsquo;s not that cold. It&rsquo;s not a mountain stream, it&rsquo;s
just a swimming pool that isn&rsquo;t heated. And the frustration you
will experience won&rsquo;t kill you either. It&rsquo;s no reason not to
persist in the one thing that will reconnect you with your right Mind.
And in that reconnection, allow for a sudden shift of perception where
the resolution of the problem or the need can come forth.

And you know what? The resolution of the need will always come forth as
that which shows that the need never was really real but only seemed to
exist because of some simple ignorance that you were suffering from.
That&rsquo;s important. You&rsquo;re never overcoming real needs.
You&rsquo;re always replacing an ignorance of truth with truth.

Now, continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Apart from the Father and the Son, the Holy Spirit has no function.
</div>

And I&rsquo;m going to add, that apart from the Father and the Son who
has gotten a divorce from his Father, the Holy Spirit has no function.
The Holy Spirit only came into play when one said, &ldquo;Father,
I&rsquo;d rather see it my way.&rdquo; &ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;d rather
do it my way.&rdquo; And disengaged or imagined that he or she
disengaged and separated himself or herself from the Father to begin to
act autonomously. At that point, as I&rsquo;ve said before, the
conscious experience of what that individual really was, fell to the
back burner and what took its place in the foreground, was the sense of
self&mdash;this imagined sense of self that was the determiner of things
now.

When you come Home&mdash;when you wake up&mdash;there will not be a
Trinity, there will be a singularity, the Father Being the Son and the
Son not objecting. So that all that the Father is, all that the word God
truly means as an experience, becomes your experience, and the
ant&rsquo;s experience, and the tree-trunk&rsquo;s experience and the
caterpillar&rsquo;s experience, and so on.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Apart from the Father and the Son, the Holy Spirit has no function. He
is not separate from either, being in the mind of both and knowing that
Mind is one. He is a Thought of God, and God has given Him to you
because He has no Thoughts He does not share.
</div>

In other words, what God was Being as you in the Movement of Creation,
He never took back, even when you insisted on being imaginatively
independent. And when you re-embrace your Self, what He shared of
Himself as you in the Beginning, is what you will once again find being
shared with you now.

The Holy Spirit &hellip;[Raj didn&rsquo;t read &ldquo;He&rdquo;]

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is a Thought of God, and God has given Him to you because He
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; God &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; has no Thoughts He does not share. His message &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s message&mdash;the message of that which
is nothing more than your right Mind&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; speaks of timelessness in time&hellip;
</div>

Why? Because right now you insist that you exist in time and in space
and you&rsquo;re moving forward inexorably in time and, oh boy, what a
definition you&rsquo;ve applied to that&mdash;that means, you&rsquo;re
getting older&mdash;and that means that you&rsquo;re going to sooner or
later deteriorate and fall ill and die.

Now, that&rsquo;s awful! That&rsquo;s insidious! That&rsquo;s cruel. And
you are all suffering from it. And you know what that circumstance is
called that I&rsquo;ve just described? It&rsquo;s called, &ldquo;a
need.&rdquo; Well, does the Holy Spirit run off and insulate Itself
against need? No. It speaks of timelessness in time. It addresses the
need by disclosing the Answer that resolves the need by showing that the
concept of time and all of the beliefs associated with it are currently
held ignorance in the mind of a Son or Daughter of God, that that
Daughter or Son of God can abandon. But that Daughter or Son of God will
not abandon it if the Holy Spirit does not speak of timelessness in this
place you all think you are.

In the same way, you do the two-step relative to others who are in need,
so that you can speak of that which uncovers the fantastic nature of the
need that they&rsquo;re experiencing. And when I say fantastic, I mean
it in the sense of fantasy, that it&rsquo;s not actual, it&rsquo;s not
real, it cannot actually bind that one.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
His &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; message speaks of timelessness in time&hellip;
</div>

It addresses the need with that which dissolves the need. And I&rsquo;m
going to say again, in a way that the one holding and practicing the
ignorance can let go of it without any experience of condemnation or
criticism, where no call for guilt remains after the correction has
occurred&mdash;after the healing has occurred. In other words, where the
integrity of the individual is uncovered right along with, let us say,
the timelessness of eternity that was being experienced as the bondage
of time.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
His &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; message speaks of timelessness in time, and that is why
Christ&rsquo;s vision looks on everything with love. Yet &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and let&rsquo;s be clear on this now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; even Christ&rsquo;s vision is not His reality.
</div>

&hellip; is not the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s reality. The Holy Spirit is an
accommodation to your choice to imagine that you can be an orphan. The
Christ is not an accommodation and is eternal, just as you are.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The golden aspects of reality which spring to light under His &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; loving gaze are partial glimpses of the Heaven that lies BEYOND
them.
</div>

The Holy Spirit is your right Mind. When you finally yield to the Holy
Spirit, when you finally yield to the Place of Excellence in you, it is
not the Holy Spirit that will become your mind, it is God that will
become your mind.

When you said, &ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;d rather do it my way.&rdquo;
&ldquo;Father, I would rather define things,&rdquo; and you seemed to
create a distance between the two of you, there came into play between
the two of you, the safety deposit box in which the true knowledge of
yourself as God Being All, could be held. It constitutes a
bridge&mdash;the Holy Spirit constitutes a bridge&mdash;between you and
your conscious experience of unity with God. And when you let in the
Holy Spirit fully, it will not now be God and you and the Holy Spirit,
or you as the Holy Spirit, or the Holy Spirit as you.

When you make that final yield to the Holy Spirit, this thing that came
into existence between you and God&mdash;your experience of Oneness with
God&mdash;will disappear. That&rsquo;s where it will seem that God takes
the last step. And the experience of Oneness will fill you.

That Mind which was in Christ Jesus, which you are invited to let be in
you, was not the Holy Spirit. The Mind that is in Christ Jesus, that is
to be in you, is the only Mind there is, it&rsquo;s God.

Now, if you want to think about it, you have plenty of grist for the
mill.

If you want to do the two-step, you have an infinite void in front of
you to be willing to hang out in, to be present in and let consume you,
which you must allow yourself to be in with curiosity&mdash;interest.
And if you do that, that&rsquo;s the two-step.

If you do that, and you do not have immediate answers to needs that are
confronting you, don&rsquo;t, like the child who needs to get into the
cold pool, complain and fret and fuss and say, &ldquo;This isn&rsquo;t
fair!&rdquo; or, &ldquo;If this were truly the way, it would be
harmonious and easy and I would be naturally drawn toward it.&rdquo;

You won&rsquo;t be naturally drawn toward it because you are convinced
that it&rsquo;s part of the integrity of you to do things independently
and find solutions yourself so that you can get credit for it and maybe,
even be an &ldquo;Albert Schweitzer,&rdquo; or an
&ldquo;Einstein,&rdquo; or someone who through exceptionally clear
thinking, sets mankind ahead in a quantum leap, thus proving that man as
a species, truly is superior to the other animals in the animal kingdom.
Because you have demonstrated a capacity to be more than the animal
kingdom is capable of being.

Bullshit! None of this is about proving your integrity. None of this is
about making you important.

All of it is about waking up so that the idea that you&rsquo;re some
piss-ant mortal, some little inconsequential nerd that must make
something of itself and can make something of itself, so that that can
be abandoned, so that that can be found to be false, so that that can be
found to be a temporary ignorance to be replaced, not by a better
perception, but by knowledge&mdash;by the experience of Knowing the
truth revealed by God.

Again, above all else, want to see everything through My Vision, which
is My Gift to you from God. That&rsquo;s the two-step. That&rsquo;s the
motto on the inside of the shit-house door. Get off the pot. Shit or get
off the pot.

Now, how many of you are thinking right now, &ldquo;Gawd, does he have
to use such course language?&rdquo; (chuckling)

Here&rsquo;s another sign that could be on the inside of the shit-house
door: &ldquo;Let&rsquo;s do it!&rdquo; Oh, that pleases you. Well, it
pleases you for the wrong reasons. It doesn&rsquo;t offend your
sensibilities&mdash;you delicate sweet little metaphysicians you, and
you, you know, proper students of the Course in Miracles, or whatever it
is you&rsquo;re studying.

You know, let&rsquo;s do what works: SHIT OR GET OFF THE POT! And you
know what? YOU CAN DO IT! It&rsquo;s a capacity all of you have and I
hope this coming week is full of miracles for you. And if it
isn&rsquo;t, I hope it&rsquo;s full of the miracle of your neglecting to
be frustrated and getting upset about it! And expressing your
frustration because all the time you&rsquo;re doing that what is it?
It&rsquo;s all you expressing yourself and there&rsquo;s no two-step to
it.

Aren&rsquo;t you glad I&rsquo;m not couching this teaching in mysterious
language? I couldn&rsquo;t be any more utterly clear than I&rsquo;m
being. And it makes it simpler for you.

And with that I will say good night and I love you all.

[^1]: John 5:30
[^2]: John 14:9
[^3]: T13.1 The Role of Healing

