---
title: Sep 16, 2007
ref: "T13.1 The Role of Healing"
alink: "/acim/text/13/chap1301/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

So, we&rsquo;re getting down to simplicity as we talked about last
week&mdash;the simplicity of the two-step. In other words, when response
is called for, when life unfolds and interaction is appropriate, instead
of jumping to the conclusion that you know exactly how to respond with
your experience with this individual, or your life experience, or your
education, you know exactly what is called for.

The two-step is: The first step of the two-step, is to step back and ask
God, &ldquo;What&rsquo;s appropriate here, what is called for here? What
is going to uncover the maximal good available from this situation,
circumstance or dynamic?&rdquo; And then listen before you respond.

Well, so much for all your education. So much for all of your study.

The two-step requires you to &ldquo;wing-it.&rdquo; The two-step
requires, life requires you to be willing to stand at the edge of the
unknown without any assumptions that you know all that you need to know
and an invitation in the form of inquiry to know more than you presently
know.

Now, there was a point at which there were Ten Commandments that were
given. Moses listened and heard and shared&mdash;he did the two-step.
And he came back down off the mountain and everyone was off the beam. He
had been gone for awhile and they had forgotten their purpose. And what
happened? The situation called for something and this time he
didn&rsquo;t do the two-step. He got angry. And he threw down the
tablets and they broke. And the upshot of it was, that he had to say,
&ldquo;Okay God, I&rsquo;m going to do the two-step again.&rdquo; And he
went back up the mountain and listened.

Now, at that time what was needed was a shift of consciousness in which
the Singularity of God&mdash;the Oneness of God needed to register in
human awareness; in human consciousness. Because at that point, there
were many gods.  That&rsquo;s why the First Commandment is, &ldquo;Thou
shalt have no other gods before Me.&rdquo;[^1]  Thou shalt not bow down to
golden calves or whatever gods you might make up. There is one God.

And the commandments that were given were rules for behavior for those
who had forgotten how to love. For those who had forgotten that love was
their function. For those who had forgotten that love for their neighbor
was their function.

The Ten Commandments were not and are not sufficient to cause anyone to
wake up. But they are sufficient to bring one into a degree of alignment
in their consciousness where their attention isn&rsquo;t divided. It
prepared everyone for My Presence in which I gave two commandments and
these two commandments were another form of the two-step we&rsquo;ve
been talking about.

The First Commandment in so many words was, &ldquo;Love the Lord thy God
with all thy heart and soul and mind.&rdquo; In other words, let this
one God which you&rsquo;re no longer having difficulty approaching
without the distraction of many other gods. In the present day,
that&rsquo;s not a mindset that most anyone is having to deal with.

So, to love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and soul and
mind&mdash;with your whole being, that&rsquo;s like doing the first step
of the two-step: &ldquo;Father, what do I need to know here? It&rsquo;s
more important to me to take this opportunity to listen for the truth
that will heal and transform and bless everyone in this moment, than it
is to rely upon my expensive education and all of the hours of work I
went to get excellent grades so that I might gain great respect in my
field. It&rsquo;s more important to me to listen to You than it is to
lean upon any of these other distractions. What do I need to know to
bless my brother&mdash;to bless this situation and so on?&rdquo;

The second commandment I gave you was to love your Brother as yourself.
Why only two commandments? Because this is all it takes to wake up. This
is all it takes to get back into your right Mind&mdash;to get back into
the conscious experience of the Kingdom of Heaven that you&rsquo;re in
the middle of but not recognizing because you&rsquo;re so much more
enamored of who you think you are and the skills you think you have, and
the reasoning capacity you&rsquo;ve have honed and developed to a fine
point so that you can be an effective presence in the world.

In other words, the Ten Commandments brought human awareness to the
point of acknowledging that there&rsquo;s only one God and that man must
obey the laws of this one God.

The two commandments that I gave say this One God is All there Is. And
there is no independent you to be obedient to God because you, in your
right Mind, are the Movement of God expressing Himself. And the way for
you to wake up into your conscious awareness of That&mdash;your
conscious experience of It, which is the definition of Heaven&mdash;the
meaning of Heaven, is to abandon the belief that you have, that
you&rsquo;re an independent entity set into place by God but given total
freedom to have your own will and function entirely independent of God
and ultimately make your Dad proud of you by your independent
accomplishments.  That&rsquo;s the mindset that is being undone today.

Multiple gods is not the mindset being undone now but it was when Moses
gave the Ten Commandments.

Now, let&rsquo;s go into the book.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is the miracle of creation; THAT IT IS ONE FOREVER.[^2]
</div>

It&rsquo;s oneness cannot be altered. Your belief that you have altered
it, or that it has been altered is not true and never was. In other
words, the miracle of Creation is, that it has never become what it is
not. It is what it is. It is One forever.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Every miracle you offer to the Son of God is but the true perception of
one aspect of the whole.
</div>

What is a miracle? A sudden shift of perception. A sudden shift of
perception that constitutes an ah-ha . . a surprise . . an awareness of
truth, not just a different point of view. An awareness of truth in
which God is more clearly recognized where you hadn&rsquo;t seen God
before in your brother; in some aspect of your life. And &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Every miracle you offer to the Son of God is but the true perception of
one aspect of the whole.
</div>

When you take the time to step back and ask God what needs to be known
here relative to something going on with you and your Brother, you are
expressing a willingness and a desire to see more there where your
Brother is than your educated thinking sees, more than your
experience&mdash;your past experience with him convinces you is there.
You&rsquo;re asking to experience more than any of your past experience
can disclose to you. And when that is disclosed to you and
transformation occurs, you have seen something about that Brother that
is awesome and transforms you and transforms him.

But you haven&rsquo;t yet seen it about your cousin or your other
sister, or Joe down the street, or your President or your Governor. But
you have seen it for one aspect of the whole, and that is valuable. That
is not insignificant. That transformation in you and your Brother does
indeed bless everyone even if you have yet to see that the ah-ha
you&rsquo;ve had about this Brother is as impactful and real and true
about everyone else you know and everyone you don&rsquo;t yet know.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Though every aspect &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; every aspect [gestures] here, there…there…every aspect &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Though every aspect IS &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; not just whole, but &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the whole, you cannot know this until you see that every aspect
is the SAME, perceived in the SAME LIGHT and THEREFORE one.
</div>

Well, if it is all these things, everything is
simple&mdash;uncomplicated. But for some of you it&rsquo;s very
important for things to be complicated because your job is to make the
complicated uncomplicated. You get your kicks, you get your high, you
get your praise, you get your self-recognition from rendering the
complicated simple. To uncover the simplicity of being that exists
without your making the complicated simple, leaves you out of the loop
of ego satisfaction and self pride.  And although it will bless you and
it will bless everyone else, you are reluctant to do things you
won&rsquo;t get credit for.

Now,

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Everyone &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your brothers, your sisters, your parents, your children, your
neighbor, your acquaintances &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Everyone seen WITHOUT the past &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; without the past&mdash;without the past that you bring into
play from your mind&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Everyone seen WITHOUT the past thus brings you nearer to the end of time
by bringing healed and healing sight into the darkness, and enabling the
world to see.
</div>

Now, we&rsquo;ve talked for the last couple of weeks about getting your
hands dirty, not staying uninvolved, not determining that success means
never to be confronted by need.

The Holy Spirit corrects your belief and your confidence in time by
coming to you where you think you are in time and speaks to you of what?
Not how idiotic you are, not how immature and ignorant you are, but
talks to you about timelessness; talks about that which specifically
corrects what you&rsquo;re suffering from. In so many words, the Holy
Spirit gets His hands dirty; gets involved with you in the correction of
ignorance by bringing about a sudden shift of perception caused by
illuminating truth or reality that you had been misperceiving as you
were looking at it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Everyone seen WITHOUT the past thus brings you nearer to the end of time
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; everyone you see without bringing the past into play, brings
you nearer to the end of time &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; by bringing &hellip;
</div>

What? Sudden shift of perceptions into play in your involvement &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; by bringing healed and healing sight into the darkness&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; as the Holy Spirit does, bringing timelessness into your belief
in time and waking you up in your ignorance about what? Timelessness.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Everyone seen WITHOUT the past thus brings you nearer to the end of time
by bringing healed and healing sight into the darkness, and enabling the
world to see. For light must come into the darkened world &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you aren&rsquo;t going to flash out of the darkened world,
you&rsquo;re not going to rise above the darkened world and leave all
the darkness down there untouched and unforgiven, unhealed.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; light must come into the darkened world to make Christ&rsquo;s
Vision possible even here.
</div>

In the dark. In what&rsquo;s being experienced as dark.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Help Him &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; Me, the Christ &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; to give His gift of light to all who think they wander in the
darkness, and let Him &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; Me &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; gather them into His quiet sight that makes them one.
</div>

How do you do that? By doing the two-step. You help Me give My gift of
light to all who think they wander in the darkness by stopping your
automatic responses and devaluing them enough to say, entirely apart
from, entirely separate and apart from my best judgments, and my best
experience and my education, &ldquo;What do I need to know here? What is
the truth that will illuminate the fact that the ignorance is ignorant
and meaningless and therefore, it can be let go of without guilt and a
sudden shift of perception can be had by all.&rdquo; That&rsquo;s how.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Help Me [substitutes Me for His] to give My gift of light to all who
think they wander&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; think they wander &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; in the darkness, and let Me gather them into My quiet sight
that makes them one.
</div>

Now, it&rsquo;s very important for you to understand that when you are
doing this for your Brother, you are including yourself in My embrace.
The sudden shift of perception that reveals your function as Love, and
illuminates your divine presence to you, blesses you.

It sounds great to hear that you should love your Father with all of
your heart, and soul and mind. What makes it great is that you can do
that in the privacy of your home. You can do it when you&rsquo;re alone
in the car. You can even do it in a middle of a crowd of people without
anybody knowing it. But that in itself won&rsquo;t cause you to awaken.
Because you can&rsquo;t go unto the Father without bringing your
fellowman with you.

Why? Because even if you love the Lord your God with all your soul and
mind, if you&rsquo;re not able to see God in your Brother, you
haven&rsquo;t seen God yet.

This is the simplicity of it. It&rsquo;s so simple that most of you
think it&rsquo;s hard, because you have to give up everything that has
meant something to you, for so little.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
They &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; all your Brothers and Sisters, everyone &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
They are all the same;&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; no matter how much they piss you off, no matter how well you
think you know them, no matter how justified you believe you are in
withholding your trust and your love from them, no matter how reasonable
it is to you not to take time on behalf of your Brother with your
Brother &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
They are all the same; all beautiful and equal in their holiness. And He
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; I, when you bring them to me &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; will offer them unto &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; My Father, it says here &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and He will offer them unto His Father as they were offered
unto Him.
</div>

In other words, as you have offered them unto Me, I will offer them unto
the Father.

You need to all pay attention to the severity with which you judge your
Brothers and Sisters and the determination you bring into play to
withhold your love from them, and you must be willing to shift your
attention from what it is about them that justifies your withholding
your love from them to taking a look at yourself to find out why
you&rsquo;re justifying using your mind in a way that is destructive to
your capacity to be the healing Presence of Love.

It is so important to so many of you to be able to express your honesty
and vent your anger and get it expressed fully so that you may let it
go, so that you might experience a catharsis. Well, all of you have held
grudges for long periods of time so that you know that having the right
to express yourself and your feelings truly, doesn&rsquo;t mean
instantaneous release and the capacity to move forward with love.

You need to be willing to look at how many times during the day you
actually avoid being involved with others for whatever justifications
exist in your mind. It seems so reasonable to you, but all the time your
attention is out there on &ldquo;them&rdquo; you are ignoring the use to
which you&rsquo;re putting your mind that constitutes your being
ill&mdash;that constitutes your being not in your right Mind. And as a
result, not in a position to do the two-step. It puts you in the
position of needing to be governed by the Ten Commandments instead of
being released by the Two.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is ONE miracle, as there is ONE reality. And every miracle you do
contains them all, as every aspect of reality you see blends quietly
into the One Reality of God.
</div>

Now, there is a way you do have of comprehending at an experiential
level what this means. And that is, that if you have had an occasion to
see a hologram&mdash;a piece of film&mdash;where you can see a
holographic image when it is held in particular laser light, you can see
a 3-D image. If you cut a little tiny corner, or any little tiny square
out of the whole piece of film and look at that in the same laser light,
you will find that every aspect of the large picture is still present in
the small picture. You don&rsquo;t just have a corner of what was in the
big picture, you have the whole picture in that little tiny piece.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And every miracle you do&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; every sudden shift of perception that you allow yourself to
have that transforms you and your Brother, &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; contains them all&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; contains the meaning of all miracles &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; as every aspect of reality you see blends quietly into the One
Reality of God. The only miracle that ever was is God&rsquo;s most holy
Son &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you and your Brothers and Sisters &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; created in the One Reality that is His Father.
</div>

The Source of you is your Father. God Being All, is God Being All there
is of you. God is not being you as something separate. God Being Himself
is what is Present where you are. And what that means will become
available to you as a conscious experience when you&rsquo;re willing to
abandon the belief you have that you are separate, solitary, isolated
and different from every other aspect of Creation as well as God. And
that&rsquo;s the purpose of this two-step that we&rsquo;re talking about
is to come back in to this conscious experience of what you really Are
and what Reality is.

And where&rsquo;s it going to happen? It&rsquo;s going to happen in the
dark. Where&rsquo;s it going to happen? It&rsquo;s going to happen in
space and time. Because in space and time you&rsquo;re going to learn of
timelessness and indivisibility and light.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Christ&rsquo;s vision &hellip;
</div>

You remember, My Vision&mdash;the Vision that is My gift to you from God
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Christ&rsquo;s vision &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; My Vision &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is His gift to you.
</div>

&hellip; is My gift to you. My Being, I&rsquo;ll read it as it says it
here &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Christ&rsquo;s vision is His gift to you. His Being is His
Father&rsquo;s gift to Him.
</div>

In other words, My Vision is My gift to you. My Being is My
Father&rsquo;s gift to Me.

Now, what could My Vision possibly be that I would give to you except
that your being is your Father&rsquo;s gift to you just as it is with
Me.

You want to know what that means. You want to experience what that
means. And that&rsquo;s what this two-step is for. And because
it&rsquo;s a two-step, it&rsquo;s a simplicity. But what makes it hard
is the dedication you bring to your judgments about each other and your
unwillingness to abandon your judgments about your brother so that you
might actually open up the door of willingness to say, &ldquo;Father
what&rsquo;s the more of what You&rsquo;re Being right here where I see
this one that it is so hard for me to be willing to think well
of?&rdquo;

Depending about how stubbornly you are holding on to your definitions
and your beliefs of everything, will be the strenuousness that you
encounter in having to release them. If you are strongly determined,
then you will have to bring much energy and attention to how
you&rsquo;re using your mind so that you can determine within you that
you&rsquo;re going to stop employing your mind in that way. And you will
find that you will have to come to this determination while you are
feeling all of the justification that you have always felt about why
it&rsquo;s unreasonable to love this Brother or this Sister or to extend
yourself any further than you already have.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Be you content with healing&hellip;
</div>

What is healing? It&rsquo;s what happens when a sudden shift of
perception occurs. And a sudden shift of perception always occurs when
you&rsquo;ve been willing to let go of control and you haven&rsquo;t
been defended against spontaneous realization. So, healing is something
that happens because you got out of the way, not because you did
something with great skill.

Be you content with that. Be content with so little.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Be you content with healing, for Christ&rsquo;s gift you CAN bestow, and
your Father&rsquo;s gift you CANNOT lose.
</div>

See, here we are, the two-step&mdash;the Two Commandments: &ldquo;Love
the Lord your God with your whole being and your Brother as
yourself.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Be you content with healing, for Christ&rsquo;s gift &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; which is the one of extending willingness relative to your
Brother to experience a sudden shift of perception. That you can do. And
your Father&rsquo;s gift of His Being you, of your deriving your being
from Him, you can&rsquo;t lose that. And that&rsquo;s part of the gift
that becomes uncovered for your Brother as well. So be satisfied
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Be you content &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; with so little &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; with healing, for Christ&rsquo;s gift you CAN bestow, and your
Father&rsquo;s gift, you CANNOT lose. Offer Christ&rsquo;s gift to
everyone and everywhere, for miracles, offered the Son of God through
the Holy Spirit, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; attune you to reality.
</div>

Bring you into harmony with it. Why? Because you&rsquo;re not so damned
adamant that you&rsquo;re going to do everything your way and that
you&rsquo;re going to say to your Father, &ldquo;But Father I&rsquo;d
rather give the meanings&mdash;I&rsquo;d rather give the
definitions&mdash;I&rsquo;d rather be the determiner. And that&rsquo;s
what I&rsquo;m going to be, period.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Offer Christ&rsquo;s gift to everyone and everywhere&hellip;
</div>

What is Christ&rsquo;s gift? What is My Gift? It&rsquo;s My Vision. Wish
to see everything through My Vision, which is My gift to you from God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Be you content with healing, for Christ&rsquo;s gift &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; My gift &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you CAN bestow, and your Father&rsquo;s gift you CANNOT lose.
Offer [My] Christ&rsquo;s gift to everyone and everywhere, &hellip;
</div>

Be willing to see God in everyone and everything.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; for miracles, offered the Son of God through the Holy Spirit
attune you to reality.
</div>

Miracles, offered the Son of God by engaging in the two-step, attunes
you to reality.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit knows your part in the redemption, and who are seeking
you and where to find them.
</div>

The Holy Spirit knows this. There&rsquo;s always divine order to
everything. And the minute you choose to let your function be to extend
My gift, you will begin to find those who are seeking you showing up.
And you will know where to find them. You will be there. Not through
skill. Not through expertise. Not through anything you can give yourself
credit for.  But it will happen. And you will say, &ldquo;Wow, I never
could have planned that in a million years. This is awesome!&rdquo;

Now listen to this:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit knows your part in the redemption, and who are seeking
you and where to find them.
</div>

Listen to this:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Knowledge is far beyond your individual concern.
</div>

What&rsquo;s the name of this chapter? From Perception to Knowledge. Oh,
but&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Knowledge is far beyond your individual concern.
</div>

Don&rsquo;t concern yourself with knowledge. It&rsquo;s what you will
find yourself experiencing when you let go of control and when you do
the two-step. You will find yourself Knowing what God would have you
know. And what God would have you Know is the truth that releases you
and your Brother from ignorances about time and space; about sin,
sickness and death.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Knowledge is far beyond your individual concern.
</div>

So knowledge and the gaining of it, is not what this is about.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You who are part of it &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; knowledge &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and all of it &hellip;

You who are part of it and all of it need only realize that it
is of the Father, NOT of you.
</div>

Whew! &ldquo;Wow&rdquo; you say, [chuckles] &ldquo;You mean, that
we&rsquo;ve been reading all of this knowledge, all of this complicated
truth for how many years have we been reading, just to get to Page 304,
and knowledge is far beyond my individual concern? What in the hell has
this all been about if it wasn&rsquo;t about knowledge?&rdquo;

You just don&rsquo;t know how to be grateful do you. Everything has been
simplified for you here. Let out a sigh of relief. Everything we have
read has led to the point where this could be understood tonight. Or so
that you could be understood when you arrived at this part of the book.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Knowledge is far beyond your individual concern. You who are part of it
and all of it need only realize that it is of the Father, NOT of you.
</div>

Thank God for the two-step, eh? Love the Lord thy God with all thy
heart, soul and mind.

Well, if knowledge is of the Father, not of you, as an independent
entity, then how important God is to you and how appropriate it is for
you to love Him with all of your being. And to find that to be of
extreme ultimate value, as you walk in the dark through your day
thinking you&rsquo;re in time, when the Holy Spirit would speak to you
of timelessness, where the Kingdom of Heaven is un-illuminated to you,
but awaits its illumination so that you might be free of your ignorance.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You who are part of it and all of it need only realize that it is of the
Father, NOT of you.
</div>

It&rsquo;s of the Father and therefore all about you, but you&rsquo;re
not the authorizer or the originator or the enactor of it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your role&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; listen to this:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You role in the redemption leads you to it by re-establishing its
oneness in your minds.
</div>

It doesn&rsquo;t say your role in the redemption leads you to great
works. It doesn&rsquo;t say that it leads you to high positions where
you might sit at the right hand of God while other brothers don&rsquo;t,
or while others don&rsquo;t for awhile because they haven&rsquo;t quite
gotten it yet, and so you can enjoy the satisfaction of having
&ldquo;gotten there early.&rdquo; [chuckles]

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your role in the redemption leads you to it &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; knowledge &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; by re-establishing its oneness in your minds.
</div>

How does knowledge get re-established in your mind?

By your doing the two-step, by your saying, &ldquo;Father what do I need
to know here? Father, what is the truth here, no matter what I thought
of my Brother, he&rsquo;s worth my taking the time&rdquo;&mdash;what, to
help him? No&mdash;&ldquo;He&rsquo;s worth my taking the time to check
in with you Father, so that I might be filled with the conscious
experience of truth that&rsquo;s so glorious that I can&rsquo;t help but
share it with my Brother and the joy of it bless him as I let it bless
me by letting it through.&rdquo;

Knowledge gets re-established in you when you abandon self-will, and let
yourself be in the peace that lies underneath all of the busyness of
self-will.

Your Brother is your savior. Because the only way you&rsquo;re going to
experience God directly, is when your Brother is worth enough to you for
you to approach God and let God in and through. Thus, Love the Lord thy
God with all of your being and your Brother as your self.

Now, tonight I&rsquo;m not going to even go into loving yourself. I will
simply say, that when you&rsquo;re willing to notice the use to which
you&rsquo;re putting your mind, and you&rsquo;re willing to call a stop
to misuse that you&rsquo;re putting your mind to, even though it gives
you great satisfaction to indulge in it because you&rsquo;ve got to
express yourself honestly. The simple point is, that your Brother must
be the reason you turn to God to let God in. Not so that you can be
relieved of the distress your Brother is creating for you&mdash;not for
your benefit, but turning to the Father for your Brother&rsquo;s benefit
because you refuse any longer to misuse your mind by insisting upon
indulging in judgment and hate.

I&rsquo;m going to tell you something: Every time you look at a Brother,
no matter what you think about him, you are bringing that to Me. When
you bring the truth about your Brother to Me, I can pass it on to My
Father and everyone is blessed.

But when you bring the untruth to Me, there is nothing I can do. There
is nothing for Me to do. I cannot pass that on to the Father as though
it were true of your Brother, because I can&rsquo;t pass it on to our
Father because it would misrepresent you as well.

&ldquo;Oh, look at Joe, he&rsquo;s really confused today, isn&rsquo;t
he Father?&rdquo;

I cannot join you in the misuse that you are putting your mind to. So
remember, no matter what you&rsquo;re thinking about your Brother,
you&rsquo;re lifting that up to me to pass on to the Father. And if it
is a poor use of your mind, you are presenting for us--Myself and the
Father, a misperception of your Brother as well as a characterization of
yourself that doesn&rsquo;t represent you truly.

So, as I&rsquo;ve said before, you&rsquo;re always going to be thinking
something about everyone. You&rsquo;re never in neutral. So remember the
two-step.

Before you lift anything up to Me, step back and ask, &ldquo;What is the
truth here, that I might lift up to You, that You may lift on to the
Father?&rdquo;

It&rsquo;s simple. But is it going to be worth actually doing it . .
this evening&hellip; tomorrow&hellip; the next day? It&rsquo;s the key.

Just remember, that no matter how justified you feel in not extending
love, but rather grousing about and being frustrated by and angry about
your Brother, you need to notice the use you&rsquo;re putting your mind
to and you need to put a stop to it and that may take some effort.

You may have to take a half-hour, forty-five minutes, an hour before you
can get yourself out of it and be released from it.

Decide for yourself whether you&rsquo;re going to be sick or not.
Whether you&rsquo;re going to be out of your right Mind and justifying
it, or not. And then decide not to. And do it by means of the two-step.

I&rsquo;m getting repetitious. It&rsquo;s a simple point that seems hard
to get. Find a way to appreciate and enjoy and bask in the simplicity
here. There is no need to spend several thousand more years in the realm
of the Ten Commandments.

I look forward to being with you next week. I love to watch you as
sudden shifts of perception occur no matter how tiny they are.

[^1]: Deuteronomy 5:1-21
[^2]: T13.1 The Role of Healing

