---
title: Sep 22, 2007
ref: "T13.1 The Role of Healing"
alink: "/acim/text/13/chap1301/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

Well, have we opened a can of worms with the simple two-step?

During this past week have you had the opportunity to hesitate before
blurting out your best judgments or what your vast experience has taught
you that would undoubtedly be of value to the one you&rsquo;re
confronted with.

And if you have managed to hesitate, and ask what needs to be known
here, and if you actually have heard what needs to be known and
you&rsquo;ve shared it, have you had the experience of it not being well
received?

And like Moses, did you get mad and throw down the tablets and forget
about listening and forget about doing the two-step and forget about
caring about your Brother enough to want to know that the resolving
answer would be here? And unlike Moses, did you perhaps not go back up
on the mountain and do the two-step again because your Brother
wasn&rsquo;t worth it?

If so, you have been confronted with the incredible importance of the
two-step and you have had a glimpse of what kind of commitment or
persistence may need to be brought into play.

Truth, reality, Meaning, have nothing to do with sweet, flowery,
spiritual platitudes that you sort of caress your mind with or caress
your fellowman with to make yourself feel good when things are still
bad. And I cannot support your reading this Course and not getting your
hands dirty. I can&rsquo;t support your finding wonderful things to
think about while you abandon your Brother because he&rsquo;s been
obtuse and it has offended you.

In Boot-Camp, one of the practices to help teamwork develope, is to take
a very long telephone pole and twenty or twenty-five men and they lift
it up on their shoulders and they have to learn to jog while carrying
it. If someone is out of step, he is going up when the telephone pole is
coming down on his shoulder. And it is very uncomfortable. And his
absence from the teamwork that&rsquo;s needed to have all twenty-five
men running smoothly with coordination, is lost.

Now you say, &ldquo;Okay, I understand that. But you know what?
We&rsquo;re not all carrying a telephone pole together. I don&rsquo;t
have a telephone pole. Michael doesn&rsquo;t have a telephone pole that
he and I are carrying. So, if I don&rsquo;t feel like coordinating with
others, if I don&rsquo;t feel like cooperating, if I don&rsquo;t feel
like being involved, big deal!&rdquo;

But here&rsquo;s the good news that you don&rsquo;t want to hear:
You&rsquo;re all in this together. And you all need each other so that
you might have objects of affection to give your attention to. Because
until you have an object of your affection and you persistently express
that affection&mdash;that intent to be involved, until that dynamic
exists, is brought into play&mdash;that which is essential to your
waking up is absent from your experience.

Earlier this evening, someone here in the group expressed a quotation
that goes, &ldquo;A mind that&rsquo;s changed against its will is of the
same opinion still.&rdquo;

Now, this person wasn&rsquo;t suggesting that that&rsquo;s a reason to
stop being affectionate, it&rsquo;s not a reason for throwing down the
tablets and storming off and abandoning the two-step. But it suggests a
dilemma. &ldquo;A mind that&rsquo;s changed against its will is of the
same opinion still.&rdquo; It&rsquo;s like, dead-end&mdash;dead end! No
use in doing the two-step.

But wait a minute. Are you doing the two-step to change someone&rsquo;s
mind? No. What you are doing the two-step for is so that you might be
undefended enough in your own mind that you&rsquo;re able to be
completely relaxed with poise. So that you&rsquo;re able to be with
grace and spontaneous balanced responses, and listen for the place where
the willingness is in your Brother.

If you say, &ldquo;He&rsquo;s not willing and he&rsquo;s a very willful
person, I am faced with a real challenge here and it&rsquo;s going to be
hard work!&rdquo; You&rsquo;re going to approach your Brother as though
he&rsquo;s unyielding, un-yieldable, un-malleable, un-changeable, and
your behavior will be a form of rough attack. That won&rsquo;t get you
anywhere.

But, you want his mind to change in accordance with his will. So you
need to find out where his willingness lies. You need to be willing to
stand with your Brother with interest. Not fake interest, not
manipulative interest, but real interest. Because until you&rsquo;re
willing to stand there with your Brother in an un-defended manner, in
other words, with love, you&rsquo;re not going to be able to recognize
where his willingness lies. He doesn&rsquo;t know where it is at the
moment himself or he would have changed his mind and it wouldn&rsquo;t
have been against his will.

Now we could say that you all could be at odds with each other for
another millennium. And we could say, &ldquo;Well we don&rsquo;t have a
whole millennium left in which to do this,&rdquo; and sort of pressure
you into it by scaring you with a time limit. Well, neither one of those
options is valid. But the simple fact is, that this is what you&rsquo;re
all faced with. You&rsquo;re all faced with the need to bring yourself
within yourself, to a point of caring enough about your Brother that you
will take the time it takes to find your Brother&rsquo;s willingness to
see the truth, or to see the answer that will resolve his dilemma.

It&rsquo;s going to take conscious, conscientious persistence. Your
willingness to be the Presence of Love is going to take conscious,
conscientious persistence. And you&rsquo;re going to have to be willing
to abandon your willingness to abandon your Brother. You&rsquo;re going
to have to abandon your willingness to self-righteously judge your
Brother and say he&rsquo;s not worth the time and the effort.

&ldquo;He&rsquo;s not worth my using my mind well.&rdquo;

Even though you&rsquo;re using your mind poorly, it&rsquo;s going to
cost you your peace and your opportunity to wake up.

Your Brother, you will have to remember, is worth every bit of conscious
effort you bring into play on his behalf, or on your Sister&rsquo;s
behalf. Each one of you is worth every bit of effort I bring to helping
you arrive at the point of discovering your willingness to embrace the
truth about yourselves and abandon what&rsquo;s causing you pain.

And every single one of you knows that you balk, and you argue, and you
withdraw, and you get angry when the help is offered,
..delay…delay&hellip;delay. &ldquo;The suffering isn&rsquo;t so bad, I
can put up with it a little bit longer. Don&rsquo;t push me
Jesus!&rdquo;

Well, I can&rsquo;t push you. I cannot change your mind. But, you are
worth My persisting in expressing love and sharing the ideas that help
you uncover deep within you your willingness, a built-in already
existing willingness, to consciously embrace the truth about yourselves
and abandon the illusions about yourselves which you have been suffering
from.

Again, as you go through this coming week and you&rsquo;re confronted by
anyone in any situation, I want you to remind yourself: &ldquo;This one,
this individual is worth my best thoughts. This individual is worth my
taking the time to remember, even if it&rsquo;s only intellectually,
that they like me, are the Christ&mdash;the Son or Daughter of
God&mdash;the direct Expression of God embodying all that is true about
God and is therefore worthy of my utter respect. And so, I&rsquo;m
willing in this moment not to discount them because of how they look or
how they&rsquo;re behaving.&rdquo;

Remember, I said last week, that you&rsquo;re never in neutral. You
always have some sort of assessment or evaluation or thought or concept
about anyone you confront or run into. And whatever that is,
you&rsquo;re lifting up to Me to pass on to the Father.

I&rsquo;m stressing this because as many of you found out during this
past week, it can easily and quickly feel as though it&rsquo;s not worth
it to do the two-step. And the wish, and even perhaps the willingness to
abandon it, has presented itself. And I need to remind you and confirm
to you that this is exactly the time not to withdraw.

And like Moses, go back up to the mountain and desire to know of the
Father, &ldquo;What needs to be known here. How can I use my mind in the
presence of this one in a manner that will contribute to our mutual
benefit; our mutual sudden shift of perception about ourselves even if
we&rsquo;re strangers?&rdquo;

Let&rsquo;s go to the book.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you have seen your brothers as yourself you will be RELEASED to
knowledge, &hellip;1
</div>

You will be free. You will be in a state of freedom to let knowledge in;
to let your intent to be the authorizer, the interpreter, the
determiner, to let that be replaced by the infilling of the Holy
Spirit&mdash;the infilling of your right Mind&mdash;the infilling of the
Father&rsquo;s Perspective.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you have seen your brothers as yourself &hellip;
</div>

What does that mean &hellip; seen your brothers as yourself?

Well, let&rsquo;s get back to basics here. You don&rsquo;t see your
Brother as yourself because you think you&rsquo;re an independent
entity, born of a sperm and an egg, having grown up in an environment
and that all of this is part of an evolutionary process that may or may
not have anything to do with God. It certainly isn&rsquo;t divine. It
certainly is physical. And then if you are a physical entity in a
process of evolution who has had a &ldquo;God experience,&rdquo; you may
think that you are an expression of God that has been created and set on
its own&mdash;given tools and faculties by this God to apply to life and
make something of yourselves as an independent entity&mdash;what
we&rsquo;ve spoken of as the orphan mentality.

Fundamental to this orphan mentality is the premise that you are
unique&mdash;that you are unlike anything and everything else. You even
have finger-prints that no-one else has. That&rsquo;s how unique you
are. That&rsquo;s how different you are from your Brother.

Your very mindset says that it is impossible to see your Brothers as
yourself because you&rsquo;re not alike. And if you were to see your
Brothers as yourself, you would lose your individuality&mdash;that you
would cease to be different. That that which can think well of itself
and convince others to think well of it and become something
important&mdash;that whole regime of arrogance and egotism, all of that
must be abandoned in order to see your Brothers as yourself.

But, by its nature and character, it disallows for that. And so it takes
someone like Me to say to you over and over and over again:
&lsquo;You&rsquo;re not an orphan. And you are not unique and different
from each other by virtue of separation. You are all the Presence of
Love embodied. Embodied by a First Cause which is Itself, Love. And the
Movement of Love that embodies Itself is Creation. And the Movement of
Love that you are when you allow It to move, constitutes part of
Creation. And so you and your Father are One. And you and your Brother
are One. And you are all individuals. But differentness is not the
bottom line&mdash;is not the determiner of your individuality.&rsquo;

God infinitely expresses Himself. Love infinitely finds expression. And
every expression is Love itself expressed. It&rsquo;s all One. It is all
One. But how it can all be One without the infinitude of Creation being
lost, is something that you will not have the experience of until
you&rsquo;re willing to abandon the orphanage, until you&rsquo;re
willing to abandon orphanhood and the pride you get from being an orphan
and making a success out of yourself.

So&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
when you have seen your brothers as yourself &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; when you allow that to happen, &ldquo;No, can&rsquo;t go any
further than that&rdquo;&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you have seen your brothers as yourself &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; when you have allowed that to happen, what have you done?
You&rsquo;ve done the only thing that will allow you to have that
experience&mdash;you&rsquo;ve done the two-step. You have backed off
from your habitual responses, your educated responses, your mutually
agreed upon responses to a situation or an individual, and you have
said, &ldquo;Father what do I need to know here? What is the truth
here?&rdquo; And then you have been silent and you have been an inviting
emptiness, if I may put it that way. You&rsquo;ve been the presence of
curiosity which is an inviting emptiness isn&rsquo;t it. You&rsquo;ve
desired to be filled with knowledge, with knowing, with the
Father&rsquo;s Perspective.

And when that happens, you have an experience of awareness that embraces
your Brother in a way that reveals to you his utter divinity and his
deserving of your respect. In other words, what is respectable about him
is clearly available to you whereas a moment before, he didn&rsquo;t
deserve your respect. And what causes your respect to be due to him is
something incredibly wonderful. It&rsquo;s that the Source of him is
God, just as the Source of you is God and you&rsquo;re having this joint
realization in that moment in which he&rsquo;s no better than you or
worse than you, and you&rsquo;re no better or worse than him. But you
are equal in the Oneness of your nature and what your nature is derived
from.

And when that kind of experience happens, both of you feel it and
healing occurs&mdash;correction of whatever was disturbing transpires.

Now this is what you should be experiencing all the time. This is what
you should be experiencing multiple times during the week.

Now you can let your ego take charge here and say, &ldquo;Well, then you
must be doing something wrong. What is there in you that doesn&rsquo;t
allow this to happen?&rdquo; It puts you on the defensive and creates a
sense of guilt in you just because you happened to hear some really good
news. The good news was, you should be having these experiences multiple
times every week.

I&rsquo;m telling you that you should be having them so that you will
begin to have an expectation of them happening because that&rsquo;s what
opens the door.

If you don&rsquo;t think it can happen, then it won&rsquo;t happen.
Because your definiteness constitutes a willfulness that fits the
quotation: &ldquo;A mind that&rsquo;s changed against its will is of the
same opinion still.&rdquo; So if you&rsquo;re so sure it will not
happen, your mind will not be changed and you will not see it happen,
even though it&rsquo;s sitting there waiting to happen for you.

And so I say, it should be happening multiple times every week. It
should not be an uncommon occurrence for you. And I say it to peak your
curiosity because you have the capacity to hear what I&rsquo;m saying
and actually let it in and actually have the experience this coming
week. And if you don&rsquo;t, you still have the capacity. And I will be
happy to tell you again and again and again without impatience, because
there simply is no justification for you to continue not to experience
it. And because there is no justification for you not to experience it,
there&rsquo;s no reason for Me not to continue to share the truth with
you&mdash;to share a Perspective that&rsquo;s different from the mindset
you&rsquo;re currently employing that keeps you from seeing it
happening.

There are people who say: &ldquo;Oh, well, the Course isn&rsquo;t really
about miracles, like walking on water! You, know, a miracle is a sudden
shift of perception. So, you know, if there&rsquo;s not healing,
don&rsquo;t worry about it. If you&rsquo;re having these wonderful
shifts of perception and they are giving you a great lift and a high,
that&rsquo;s what it&rsquo;s about.&rdquo; No it&rsquo;s not.

A sudden shift of perception is one in which&mdash;one that is a
miracle&mdash;is one in which the Presence of God registers with you
surprisingly when you weren&rsquo;t expecting it, or when you
weren&rsquo;t trying to make it happen but you were willing to let go of
control enough to let something you weren&rsquo;t in charge of, in.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you have seen your brothers as yourself &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; from doing the two-step &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you will be RELEASED to knowledge.
</div>

What that means is you will be released from the bondage you were
suffering from as a result of your own self-created definitions about
how everything worked. And when you abandon your mindset, and you employ
curiosity to know more than you presently know, you&rsquo;re suddenly
released from the bondage of your thought-structures and the recognition
of truth can infill you as I&rsquo;ve just described. Knowing the truth
will suddenly be your illumined experience. So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you have seen your brothers as yourself you will be RELEASED to
knowledge&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the experience of Knowing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; having learned to free yourself of Him Who knows of freedom.
</div>

Who is Him Who knows of freedom that you have learned from? God.

You can ask the Holy Spirit to illumine your mind with the truth, but
what the Holy Spirit will do in response to that, is reveal to you the
Father&rsquo;s Perspective. And in the end you will have learned of the
Father.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you have seen your brothers as yourself you will be RELEASED to
knowledge, having learned to free yourself of Him Who knows of freedom.
Unite with me under the holy banner of His teaching&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Father&rsquo;s teaching &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and as we grow in strength the power of God&rsquo;s Son will
move in us&hellip;
</div>

Why will the power of God&rsquo;s Son move in us? Because we won&rsquo;t
be denying Who we Are. You and I will not be denying Who we Are. We will
be acknowledging that we are not the source of our existence, that we
are the effect or offspring of Something Else&mdash;that we have a
Father. And the moment you abandon the orphan viewpoint, the fact that
you are the Son or Daughter of God&mdash;that you are the offspring of a
Source other than yourself&mdash;your Sonship and God&rsquo;s Fatherhood
become real to you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Unite with me &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; which is what you&rsquo;re doing when you say, &ldquo;I wish to
see everything through Your Vision, which is Your gift to me from
God.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Unite with me &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in that way

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; under the holy banner of His teaching&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; which means under the holy banner of how things really work.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; under the holy banner of His teaching, and as we grow in
strength &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; or unity, conscious joining&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the power of God&rsquo;s son will move in us, and we will
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; leave no-one untouched &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; so, when you do the two-step and you get a real raunchy
response, you won&rsquo;t run away. You will persist and &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the power of God&rsquo;s Son will move in us, and we will leave
no-one untouched and no-one left alone.
</div>

This is very important. No one will be left alone. It cannot be part of
your mindset that as you do the two-step, you might end up leaving a few
people alone because you will do the two-step with the easy people. And
somebody else will catch the ones you miss? No. Your wholeness will not
be experienced by you until not one Brother is left outside of it.

Now, don&rsquo;t take what I&rsquo;m saying to mean that immediately
you&rsquo;re to go out and somehow consciously embrace
everyone&mdash;every Brother, every Sister. That will be the end result.
That will be the finale, if you will. But, you be willing to do this
with the people in your experience.

The people in your experience are the ones the Holy Spirit has brought
to you. But understand that you&rsquo;re not going to slip by on the
fast-track and just do this with the essential people. Be willing from
the start here, to not let anyone slip out of your site without your
Blessing. Don&rsquo;t let anyone slip by you without your Blessing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Unite with me &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; break your isolation &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; under the holy banner of His teaching, and as we grow in
strength&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; conscious unity &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the power of God&rsquo;s Son will move in us, and we will leave
no-one untouched and no-one left alone.
</div>

And that means that you will have dared to take the time to find the
place in each one of them where the willingness to see the truth
existed&mdash;and helped uncover it&mdash;so that they could gladly
embrace it and easily embrace it. Because where their willingness is,
for embracing it, is where it&rsquo;s easy to embrace it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And suddenly time will be over, and we will all unite in the eternity of
God the Father. The holy light you saw outside yourself, in every
miracle you offered to your brothers, will be RETURNED to you.
</div>

Now, when you do this two-step, when you take the time with your Brother
to look beyond your spontaneous judgments and opinions, to see what God
is Being there, and you have this illumination that embraces you and
your Brother and healing occurs, it&rsquo;s still as though a miracle
happened with your Brother. It&rsquo;s still as though something
happened &ldquo;out there&rdquo; and the total unity of it will not
always be felt. And &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the holy light you saw outside yourself, in every miracle you
offered to your brothers, will &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in the end &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; be RETURNED to you. And KNOWING that the light is IN you, your
creations will be there with you, as you are in your Father.
</div>

I&rsquo;m going to say it this way: Every healing that you&rsquo;re a
participant in, every healing of a Brother or a father or a daughter or
a spouse, is an event that fits under the heading of Creation. Every
expression of Love that is embodied, manifest, consciously experienced,
is eternal and is present for all to experience forever. It becomes your
expression of Love embodied as part of Creation forever. This is
important.

So the willingness to persist on behalf of your Brother is important.
Because, for lack of better words, the successful embodiment of Love
that arose out of your willingness to persist, becomes an aspect of
Creation Itself.

The grocery store clerk who&rsquo;s blessed by you, becomes together
with you, a movement of love that will forever be experienceable,
because it was part of the Movement of Creation. There is no place you
can be or no experience you can have in your day that is mundane or
inconsequential, or not worth embracing with your maximal curiosity to
see God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As miracles in this world join you to your brothers, so do your
creations establish your fatherhood in Heaven.
</div>

No. Fatherhood here does not have a capital &lsquo;F&rsquo;. The
Movement of Creation, called God Being, is embodied in every single one
of you. And your every expression of love embodied, demonstrates your
fatherhood&mdash;your place you might say, in the Movement of Creation.

You are not a piss-ant mortal, a nothing&mdash;an imagination that pops
up and then disappears. You are the Sons and Daughters of God and what
God is, is embodied in you. You are not God. But God is all there is to
you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
YOU are the witnesses to the Fatherhood of God&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and that has a capital &lsquo;F&rsquo; . What does that mean?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
YOU are the witnesses to the Fatherhood of God&hellip;
</div>

Well, all children are witnesses to the fatherhood of their father and
mother. You are the witnesses to that which has Sourced you&mdash;That
which is Be-ing you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
YOU are the witnesses to the Fatherhood of God, and He has given you the
power to create the witnesses to your fatherhood in Heaven.
</div>

What are the witnesses to your fatherhood? They are the uncovering of
God&mdash;the illuminating of the Presence of God&mdash;where it seems
to be covered up as a result of your being willing to do the two-step
and even go back up on the mountain two or three, or twenty or forty or
a thousand times if necessary, because of persistence of your love and
your insistence that your Brother is worth your using your mind well.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The miracle which God created is perfect&hellip;
</div>

[addresses each one in the room] You are the miracle of God. And you are
the miracle of God. And you are the miracle of God. And you are the
miracle of God. And you are the miracle of God, and you are the miracle of
God, and you are the miracle of God. And your father is the miracle of
God. And you are the miracle of God, you, and you, Christopher, are the
miracle of God.

The wonder, the maximal wonder of what God is, that is what you are even
though you are not consciously embracing it yet.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The miracle which God created is perfect&hellip;
</div>

You all are perfect!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; as are the miracles which YOU created in His Name.
</div>

The embodiments of love which you have facilitated.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
They need no healing nor do you when you know THEM.

Yet, in this world your perfection is unwitnessed.
</div>

You generally don&rsquo;t witness it for yourself and you, for certain,
do not witness for your Brothers. Not as a general rule. Very few in
your experience can be assigned those qualities.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet, in this world your perfection is unwitnessed. God knows it . .
</div>

&hellip; God witnesses to it and you are the witnesses &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God knows it but YOU do not, and so you do not share His witness to it.
</div>

See, there&rsquo;s no camaraderie, there&rsquo;s no joining with God
since you said, &ldquo;But Father, I&rsquo;d rather do it myself,&rdquo;
and you got a divorce from your Father. You do not employ an
&ldquo;us&rdquo; mentality. Like Father like Son. I am my Father&rsquo;s
Son, I am my Father&rsquo;s Daughter. I did not create myself. I exist
because Something has created me and I acknowledge that I am created.

I bear witness to My father by claiming to be His Son, instead of
claiming to be an orphan who&rsquo;s having a helluva good time
overcoming the odds and winning over the negativities that are part and
parcel of existence.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God knows it &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your perfection &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; but YOU do not, and so you do not share His witness to it. Nor
do you witness unto Him&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you don&rsquo;t claim Him to be your Father. You don&rsquo;t
claim to be nothing without Him. You don&rsquo;t claim and say,
&ldquo;If you have seen me, you have seen the Father.&rdquo; No. You
don&rsquo;t say that.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip;for reality is witnessed to as one.
{: .omit}

God waits your witness to His Son and to Himself.
</div>

God waits your witness to your Sonship and His Fathership.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The miracles you do on earth are lifted up to Heaven and to Him. They
witness to what you do not know, and as they reach the gates of Heaven
God will open them. For never would He leave His own beloved Son outside
them and beyond Himself.
</div>

Pretty grand words. But the simplicity of it is, that you exist and you
did not create yourselves and you have a capacity to use your mind well,
or to use your mind poorly.

Right now you&rsquo;re all caught in an eddy of the poor use of the
mind. But it&rsquo;s not your birthright to be caught there or to be
experiencing that.

And there is a way for you to get out of that. There is a way for you to
use your mind well. And the way, as we&rsquo;ve been reading, to use
your mind well, is to be willing to do the two-step. To stop before your
knee-jerk responses and say, &ldquo;Entirely separate and apart from my
conditioned responses, what is the truth here Father?&rdquo; Use that
word, &ldquo;Father.&rdquo; Because when you do that you&rsquo;re
acknowledging your Sonship and you&rsquo;re acknowledging a joining.

&ldquo;What is the truth here Father? Because I care enough about my
fellowman to relieve him of his suffering and even if he is holding on
to it mightily and does not want to hear how he can be relieved of it,
help me find the willingness in him. Help me address him in a way that
touches the willingness so that he can abandon the self-imposed
incarceration that he is binding himself with unnecessarily.&rdquo;

And as you do that, the dominoes will begin to fall. You will begin to
see healings during the week. You will be able to talk to each other
about it, but you won&rsquo;t be able to say how you did it. You will
just be able to share how amazing it was. And you will begin to be
willing to allow things to happen in your experience that you know
you&rsquo;ve participated in but which you were not the author of. And
that will be part of the shift of perception that is called, waking up.

Now this week, I do not want you to read ahead to the next section. I
want you to re-read what we&rsquo;ve been reading for the last couple of
weeks. And I want you to abide with what I&rsquo;ve been saying. And as
difficult as it might be for you to persist in doing the two-step, when
you are met with an obtuse response, please understand that that is
exactly when the two-step must be employed again.

Moses went back up on the mountain and listened again and shared and
released a people from bondage. It was world-changing. It&rsquo;s no
small thing for each of you to listen, to do this two-step: and to do it
a second, a third, and a fourth time if necessary.

I love you very much&mdash;all of you. And I look forward to being with
you next week.

[^1]: T13.1 The Role of Healing

