---
title: Oct 27, 2007
ref: "T13.3 Release and Restoration"
alink: "/acim/text/13/chap1303/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

Ok, I want to back up to the previous paragraph to set the tone for tonight.
Because in talking about guilt and everything that we have been talking
about, it can become easy to have a negative sense about oneself.
Because of course, that&rsquo;s what the ego would have you engage in.

Now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Within you is the holy sign of perfect faith your Father has in you. He
does not value you as you do. He knows Himself, and knows the truth in
YOU. [^1]
</div>

He is the Source of you. He, by the Movement of What He Is, is the
Presence of each one of you and every aspect of Creation. And because He
knows Himself, He knows you because He is all there is of you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He knows THERE IS NO DIFFERENCE, for He knows not of differences. Can
YOU see guilt where God KNOWS there is perfect innocence? You can DENY
His knowledge, but you cannot CHANGE it.
</div>

Which means, you can deny the truth about you, but you cannot change the
truth about you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Look, then, upon the light He placed within you, and learn that what you
feared was there HAS BEEN replaced with love.
</div>

Now, one of the things that causes great confusion is the fact that you
have all begun to associate guilt and innocence with right and wrong. If
you are guilty, you are wrong. If you are innocent, you are right. If
you are guilty, you don&rsquo;t deserve respect. If you are innocent,
you deserve respect. And it&rsquo;s not true.

It&rsquo;s not true because innocence has nothing to do with right or
wrong. And right and wrong have everything to do with
righteousness&mdash;self-righteousness. Right and wrong have everything
to do with the means you use to control each other and to control your
life and to control your circumstances.

If you&rsquo;re wrong, you don&rsquo;t have the position from which to
exercise authority and make things happen. If you&rsquo;re wrong, you
create disease for yourself, you say, now that you can think
metaphysically about right and wrong; guilt and innocence. And if you
think correctly, you can experience healing.

Now, I&rsquo;m going to tell you flat out right now, that thinking right
and thinking wrong has nothing to do with your perfection. Thinking
right isn&rsquo;t what heals you. Thinking wrong is not what causes you
to be ill.

You are healed by Grace. You are healed by the Grace of God. You are
healed by virtue of the fact, that since God is all there is to you,
there is no place for anything unlike God. And that is why there can be
an instantaneous healing of someone who hasn&rsquo;t ferreted out every
flaw within her or within himself, and corrected every single flaw and
begun to think correctly and therefore, deserve healing.

Now, we talked last week about the fact that in the little gap between
the past, (meaning memory) and the future (meaning imagination) is the
Altar that is in the middle of you. It is in the &ldquo;Now,&rdquo; in
that space which has no relationship to the past or the future; in that
place where the silence is; where the pregnant fullness of your Being
awaits your experience, is your innocence.

Innocence can best be described as that which has within itself nothing
unlike itself. There, right and wrong do not exist. There, your healing
does. There, your wholeness does. There, your Atonement is present for
you to experience fully.

When you move into the past, meaning memory, you must think. When you
move into the future through imagination, you must think. In either
case, you are engaging in a capacity that I told you before, God did not
give you. God did not give you the capacity to think.

In the little gap between memory and imagination; in the silence there,
you have been provided with the capacity to Know. In that Place, you are
as omniscient as God. Because nothing unlike what you Are, which is the
Presence of God Being All, there is no thinking either in the past or in
the future. There is nothing unlike the Now. And there&rsquo;s no right
or wrong.

Now it&rsquo;s important to understand what I&rsquo;m saying, because
you think that you are guilty of doing wrong things and you think you
must be punished for the wrong things you have done. It is as though
guilt is a result of behavior. And this is where you all get hooked and
find it difficult to justify releasing yourself from the guilt and its
effects that you lay upon yourselves.

I have explained before that the moment you said, &ldquo;Father, I would
rather see it my way; Father, I would rather do it my way&rdquo; and you
proceeded to act in an independent way, independent from your Oneness
with God, you created, for lack of better words, a circumstance that
doesn&rsquo;t represent the truth about you.

And so, because of the sanity of your Being; there&rsquo;s a tone; an
energy, if you will, that you can feel that reports back to you that you
have stepped outside of the bounds of Reality, so to speak. It&rsquo;s a
dissonance, like the bell that rings when the garbage truck backs up or
a large vehicle backs up, that says there is an unsafe condition
prevailing at the moment.

That dissonance is felt as discomfort; and that is guilt. It is not
inherent in acts you engage in, it&rsquo;s inherent in the state of
thinking. It&rsquo;s inherent in engaging in an unnatural activity that
is different from and separate from the silence in the middle of you,
where you are omniscient without thinking a thought; where you Know
everything without thinking a thought.

And likewise, if you want to engage in future thinking in imagination,
you will find the same dissonance there. Why? Because your attention
isn&rsquo;t where things are happening. You&rsquo;re attention is not
where Reality is unfolding. You have moved into a space where you are
being the determiner of conclusions and assessments and evaluations and
explanations that have nothing to do with what you would find yourself
omnisciently Knowing if you stayed in the little gap in the center of
you, in the silence, where you&rsquo;re not introducing anything unlike
you.

So, if you&rsquo;re experiencing guilt, it&rsquo;s not because of any
wrong act that you&rsquo;ve done that can be corrected by engaging in a
correct act. You will find that if you will disengage from thinking
entirely, and meditate&mdash;sit down and allow yourself to consciously
and purposely become still within yourself&mdash;the dissonance will
vanish. Peace will reveal itself; Real Peace. Not a mental narcotic that
makes you feel peace when you shouldn&rsquo;t be feeling peace, but the
peace that&rsquo;s inherent in your behaving sanely; by being attentive
Now, fully present Now.

Now, you all work each other over constantly with the concept of right
and wrong. &ldquo;If you don&rsquo;t do it right, you&rsquo;re gonna be
sorry. If you don&rsquo;t do it this way, you&rsquo;re not going to have
my respect. If you want respect in the world, you&rsquo;re going to act
intelligently based upon the world&rsquo;s definitions of intelligence.
And if you don&rsquo;t, don&rsquo;t expect any prizes.&rdquo;

Control; manipulation; all for the sake of righteousness and all
occurring because of what? Because, when you have left the
Now&mdash;when you have left the gap between the past and the future;
memory and imagination&mdash;the point is that if you want to escape
from guilt, you will not try to change into a good person expressing
right ideas, loving thoughts based upon your memory of what constitutes
good behavior and what you&rsquo;ve been taught in the past constitutes
good behavior because you can&rsquo;t become innocent by being right.

Now, this is not inviting or pleasing to the ego because the ego needs
to be right in order to have power. But I&rsquo;m telling you, that
because your innocence has nothing to do with right or wrong, but has
everything to do with your Being, your escape, as it were, into the
freedom of your Being will come as an awareness of your complete
powerlessness as a tiny private force for good.

And in the absence of any attempt to exert power as a tiny private
independent force for good, you will find yourself experiencing not only
the Knowing that reveals the truth to you that is omniscient, you will
find yourself fully empowered in the sense of being omnipotent.

Now listen to me carefully: Omniscience: All-Knowing. Omnipotence: All
Powerful.

But you know what? When you&rsquo;re in the little gap and you&rsquo;re
not mentally dismembered; fragmented, and there is a Wholeness that is
uninterrupted because there is nothing unlike itself in it, then you
along with all of your Brothers and Sisters joining, or being joined
with the Father, act, and Creation occurs. The action is not an act over
or against anything. It is the Movement of Love. It is an emerging
movement of ultimate creativity: perfection, beauty, harmony. And there
isn&rsquo;t any sense of private, tiny, personal power.

You see, it will have nothing to do with being right or being wrong.
Healing or correction that the Course talks about, in which you are
encouraged to participate in on behalf of your Brother, is not a matter
of your learning how to be right and thereby having power that can heal
your Brother or change him from being wrong into one who is being right,
because, as we said here:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Within you is the holy sign of perfect faith your Father has in you. He
does not value you as you do.
</div>

Well, when you&rsquo;re in that place&mdash;in the little gap&mdash;you
do not value what your Brother may be valuing because you recognize and
feel the truth. And you know, you know that that truth is absolute and
unchangeable. And it&rsquo;s as clear as a bell to you that this is the
truth about your Brother. And that&rsquo;s the way you be with your
Brother. And that&rsquo;s what helps to open up the door, to make it, as
I said last time, easier for your Brother to like himself and to abandon
his inclination to blame himself and claim guilt for himself.

So both of you are lifted out of the realm of right or wrong, and of
good behavior and bad behavior as &ldquo;mattering.&rdquo;

It isn&rsquo;t what you do right or wrong within the realm of thinking
that matters. It&rsquo;s what you find yourself being when you take the
time to become still&mdash;to go into the silence in the little
gap&mdash;that Place of Excellence in you where the Altar is, and God
reveals Himself to you as You. That&rsquo;s where it&rsquo;s at.

Many of you say, &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t have time to become still.&rdquo;
And what that means is, that you have too much thinking to do. You have
too much worrying. Well worrying is mulling over the past; mulling over
all of the ideas that stand as arguments against your peace.
&ldquo;I&rsquo;ve got to think&mdash;I have too much thinking to
do.&rdquo; Or, &ldquo;I know that tomorrow this situation is going to
occur and I know that it&rsquo;s going to be this or that or the other
thing.&rdquo; And so you worry about the future.
Thinking…thinking…thinking…which is an activity that is so much static
covering up your omniscience&mdash;your capacity to Know; your God-given
capacity to Know.

Now, let&rsquo;s go into the book.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*Release and Restoration*

You are accustomed to the notion that the mind can see the source of
pain where it is not.
</div>

That&rsquo;s not really complicated. You think that you can see your
Brother or his actions as the source of your pain. You think that your
kidney can be the source of your pain or the muscles in your shoulder
can be the source of your pain.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You are accustomed to the notion that the mind can see the source of
pain where it is not.
</div>

Well, you also think that you can see the source of pain in you. You
have determined that you are making your life miserable because
there&rsquo;s something really wrong with you and you don&rsquo;t quite
know what it is. But you&rsquo;re constantly &ldquo;f_ _ _ ing&rdquo; up
your life day after day and you seem not to be able to do anything to
correct it.

So, you think you can see the source of your pain in you.

&ldquo;Oh, if I could just get my head on straight. If I could just
straighten out my thinking, I would be able to have better control. I
just can&rsquo;t organize my thoughts!&rdquo; And the result is chaos.
&ldquo;Oh, I just can&rsquo;t organize my office and so I can&rsquo;t
find anything and it&rsquo;s chaos.&rdquo;

Or, you know someone who&rsquo;s very good at compartmentalizing his
thinking. And as a result, even though he&rsquo;s in the middle of
chaos, he can keep a clear sense of order and handle himself in a
controlled way that manifests &ldquo;intelligence.&rdquo;

You constantly convince yourselves and each other every day that your
thinking is solely responsible for your being well or not; of your being
at peace or in chaos; of being clear or confused.

And I&rsquo;m telling you that as long as you are engaging in thinking
at all, you are in a level of mind which automatically has dissonance
present that is telling you that you are off the beam; that says,
&ldquo;Come back on the beam, this is not natural to you. Do what is
natural to you.&rdquo; Which doesn&rsquo;t mean change the way
you&rsquo;re thinking. It means come back to center out of thinking.
Come back out of your fearful imaginations of the future into the
moment&mdash;into the Now--where that dissonance is not present, and
where your omniscience is.

Again,

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You are accustomed to the notion that the mind can see the source of
pain where it is not. The doubtful service &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the questionable service &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; of displacement is to hide the REAL source of your guilt, and
KEEP from your awareness the full perception THAT IT IS INSANE.
</div>

You see, by saying, &ldquo;So-and-so out there is creating my problem,
or my body is creating my problem, or my bad thinking is creating my
problem,&rdquo; that&rsquo;s the way you distract yourself from seeing
what it is that would bring about correction. It isn&rsquo;t anything
out there. It isn&rsquo;t your good thoughts or bad thoughts. It is
that, you are at the moment looking at everything through the lens of
thinking&mdash;through the overlay of determinations and conclusions you
are coming to about everything without having been silent enough and
attentive enough to let every single thing reveal to you what It
divinely is; something which you can only experience if you are
listening; if you are quiet!

When you&rsquo;re providing the definitions, what you are defining
can&rsquo;t reach you because you&rsquo;re making too much noise.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The doubtful service of displacement is to hide the REAL source of your
guilt, and KEEP from your awareness the full perception THAT IT IS
INSANE. Displacement always is maintained by the illusion that the
source, from which attention is diverted, must be TRUE, AND MUST BE
FEARFUL, or you would not have displaced the guilt onto what you
believed to be LESS fearful.
</div>

Now, you feel guilty because you have left your peace. You have left
your Center. You have indulged in thinking. You interpret it to be an
experience of your guilt and you have determined that what you must be
guilty of is real, making you vulnerable to whatever the penalty is for
that guilt.

And that sends you on a wild goose chase if you&rsquo;re going to try to
track it down. It sends you on a wild goose chase because it isn&rsquo;t
something that you&rsquo;re doing; it isn&rsquo;t an act you&rsquo;ve
engaged in; it isn&rsquo;t a particular thought that you had that is
creating the dissonance; it&rsquo;s that you&rsquo;re thinking, period.
And you need to get back to Center. You need to value your peace enough
to access it first before you act; before you respond to life.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You are therefore willing, with little opposition&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; from within you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; to look upon all sorts of &ldquo;sources&rdquo; underneath
awareness&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; &ldquo;um-m I must have a very subtle thought of negativity
here that I haven&rsquo;t been willing to look at, but it must be
operating somewhere in me.&rdquo;

You hear the vagueness? &ldquo;Boy, it&rsquo;s there. Something is
there. There&rsquo;s a source that&rsquo;s not quite explainable.
It&rsquo;s gonna to be difficult to find, but by dammit I&rsquo;m going
to find it and I&rsquo;m going to chuck it out. And then I&rsquo;ll be
free. I&rsquo;ll have my peace.&rdquo; No.

Sit down and meditate. Sit down and meditate for twenty minutes.
You&rsquo;ll have your peace and it will be the Real Peace of your
Being. And you won&rsquo;t have ferreted out any faulty thinking to
deserve to have the Peace.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You are therefore willing, with little opposition, to look upon all
sorts of &ldquo;sources&rdquo; underneath awareness, provided that they
are not the deeper source to which they bear no real relationship at
all.
</div>

All the little thoughts, all the little subtle faults that you would
find yourselves looking for, will never have anything to do with the
fact that the dissonance you&rsquo;re feeling; the guilt you&rsquo;re
experiencing, is not from anything you are doing, but is from engaging
in an activity of mind that you can&rsquo;t successfully engage in
because you&mdash;the divine one that you are&mdash;cannot become
insane.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Insane ideas HAVE no real relationships, for that is WHY they are
insane. No real relationship can rest on guilt, or even hold one spot of
it to mar its purity.
</div>

Who you are and who your Brother is, divinely, cannot be changed. And
your real relationships with each other cannot be altered even though
both of you may indulge in fantasy&mdash;in imagination. And by virtue
of indulging in imagination, creating for yourselves that experience of
an undercurrent; a dissonance that simply is your sanity saying,
&ldquo;Come back, you are attempting to do something you cannot really
do. Don&rsquo;t bother doing it; don&rsquo;t bother continuing to do
it.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
No real relationship can rest on guilt, or even hold one spot of it to
mar its purity. For all relationships which guilt has touched are used
but to avoid the person AND the guilt.
</div>

When you judge your Brother to be guilty, even if you&rsquo;re saying
that you&rsquo;re doing it to help him correct his problem, what
you&rsquo;re engaged in is avoiding being connected with your Brother
because you&rsquo;re looking at a definition you&rsquo;ve made up about
him, instead of him. You have moved into fantasy. You&rsquo;ve moved
into the realm of thinking. And when you do that, you cannot be present
with who and what your Brother really is or who and what your world
really is.

Now, what this means is, that if you want to become free of guilt, you
are going to have to move to where guilt doesn&rsquo;t exist. You will
not be able to stay within the realm of thinking and judging and
manipulate thoughts and imagined circumstances so as to demonstrate and
prove the guiltlessness of you or anyone else who is still engaged in
thinking.

You will have to come to a point of saying, &ldquo;You know what? I do
have time. I do have time to go into the silence. I do have time to
become centered. In fact, I&rsquo;m obligated to become centered no
matter what is going on if indeed, I want to be&mdash;I&rsquo;m going to
say&mdash;an effective Presence; a Presence that uncovers perfection; a
Presence that uncovers wholeness; a Presence that illuminates harmony; a
Presence with Whom it is easier for my Brother or Sister to recognize
the truth about himself or herself and like himself or herself more
easily.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; all relationships which guilt has touched are used but to avoid
the person AND the guilt. What strange relationships you have made for
this strange purpose!
</div>

The strange relationships you have made are the relationships of
orphans. You all think that you are orphans&mdash;independent&mdash;and
you have figured out a way to relate to each other and you use your
relationships for control.

You don&rsquo;t use your relationships as the opportunity to silently be
present with the one you&rsquo;re in relationship with, so that in the
absence of your own imaginations and determinations and analyses, you
can recognize your Brother because you&rsquo;re not introducing anything
strange into the mix. And your Brother can feel your Presence with him
and be pleased; be filled with joy that blesses you as well.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What strange relationships you have made for this strange purpose! And
you forgot that real relationships are holy, and cannot be used by YOU
at all. They are used only by the Holy Spirit&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that which is nothing more than your Right Mind &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
They are used only by the Holy Spirit and it is that which MAKES them
pure.
</div>

Pure. That&rsquo;s a good word for that which contains within itself
nothing unlike itself. Right? Pure: The meaning of innocence.

You see, if you have right and wrong going on and warring with each
other; and right triumphs over wrong, you still got right and wrong
except that now right is dominating. There&rsquo;s still no purity;
there&rsquo;s that present with rightness that is unlike it. And as long
as you insist upon functioning within the realm of thinking&mdash;either
the rehearsal of the past, memory, or the practice of imagination
regarding the future&mdash;you will not be able to free yourself.

The answer to guilt is, the realization that you are innocent. You are
right now the direct expression of God. You are not an orphan. If you
think you are, and if you think you can operate independently on your
own, it doesn&rsquo;t make it true. But the way out of it is, to realize
that you must move into, for lack of better words, the realm of
innocence.

The purity of you that is constituted of the Movement of God being all
there is to you, being all there is to your mind, which having no
activities unlike its nature and character is free of conflict; is free
of the dissonance interpreted as guilt that causes you to think you must
do something to prove your righteousness and use your Brothers as the
scapegoats for your attempts.

I&rsquo;m going to back up to a paragraph from last time.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Guilt &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; if you&rsquo;re engaging in it, if you&rsquo;re engaging in
feeling guilty or if you are engaging in using guilt for purposes of
control &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Guilt makes you blind, for while you see one spot of guilt within you,
you will NOT see the light. And by projecting it &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; out there to your body; your neighbor; circumstances,
whatever&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the WORLD seems dark, and shrouded in your guilt. You throw a
dark veil over it, and cannot see it BECAUSE YOU CANNOT LOOK WITHIN. You
are afraid of what you would see there, but it is NOT there.
</div>

You see, and if you go looking for it and you are afraid of it, you will
not find that it&rsquo;s not there because you&rsquo;re going to stay in
the realm of thinking; in the realm of attempting to be in control.
You&rsquo;re not going to let yourself into the Now. You&rsquo;re not
going to let yourself into that Place of innocence. You&rsquo;re not
going to let yourself into that place where you say, &ldquo;I know that
I of myself can do nothing, because I, all by myself, do not
exist.&rdquo;

&ldquo;The &ldquo;I&rdquo; that thinks it&rsquo;s all by itself is a
figment of, ah-h… imagination. And so I&rsquo;m willing to be in the
place where I am nothing all by myself. I will abandon being the orphan
that is nothing. And I invite my Father back into the picture. Father,
help me, Father, reveal to me the Knowing…&rdquo; or as it uses the word
in the Course, &ldquo;the knowledge that reveals truth and perfection
and reality to me.

&ldquo;Fill me today with all thou art. I&rsquo;m willing to take my
place as your Son. I&rsquo;m willing to take my place as your offspring
reflecting You. And I will stop using relationships for purposes of
control, which is not what they were for. And I will care enough about
my brother that I will hold him guiltless, because I&rsquo;m willing to
acknowledge that right where he is, You, Father, must be. If You
weren&rsquo;t there, there couldn&rsquo;t seem to be anything there at
all. And so I&rsquo;m willing to bless him rather than curse him with my
judgment and projecting guilt on him.

&ldquo;I&rsquo;m through feeling the dissonance of my daring to think. I
withdraw my willingness to project my discomfort, caused by my thinking,
upon my Brother and making him guilty for it and trying to prove it to
him so that I can make him change his behavior so that I can feel
better.

&ldquo;I am going to choose to abandon the thinking which is the
culprit. And go into that Place of silence within me, to the Altar, in
the little gap between memory and imagination.&rdquo;

As I said last week, this does not have to take a long time. You can
just stop outside the Post Office and bless those who walk past you.

Now it&rsquo;s very important: As long as you&rsquo;re using
relationships for what they are not meant, you foul up the way you
experience things.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you forgot that real relationships are holy and cannot be used
by YOU at all. They are used only by the Holy Spirit, and it is that
which MAKES them pure. For by pre-empting for your OWN ends what you
should have given to HIM&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; remember the two-step? You step back, &ldquo;Father, what does
this mean? Holy Spirit, what does this mean?&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For by pre-empting for your OWN ends what you should have given to Him,
he cannot use them unto YOUR release. No-one who would unite in ANY way
with ANYONE for his OWN salvation will find it in that strange
relationship.
</div>

No one who would unite in ANY way with ANYONE for his OWN salvation will
find it in that strange relationship. You use a relationship for a
purpose it was not intended and the purpose it was intended for will
escape you completely.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is not shared, and so it is not real.
</div>

As long as you&rsquo;re so sure that you know who your Brother and
Sister really is, the bastard or bitch that they are, or the ignorant
one, or BLACK one, or the one who isn&rsquo;t so intelligent, or the
cranky one; when you approach your Brother with that mindset,
you&rsquo;re not approaching your Brother at all. You&rsquo;re
approaching the picture you have in your mind of them and you&rsquo;re
avoiding actual experience with them. And so the function for which a
relationship exists will escape you entirely because you&rsquo;re
blocking the relationship from registering with you.

Now, I want to come back to this point: The reason you approach each
other in this fashion is because you want to be right. And you want to
be right because you want to have authority and power. And you think you
can&rsquo;t have that if you&rsquo;re not in charge and if you
don&rsquo;t get agreement with your Brother or Sister by means of
control.

And so, you never become defenseless with your Brother or Sister.
Defenseless with your Brother or Sister means being willing to be
unguardedly present with them so that connection can occur and the
blessing of what a real relationship is for, can be your experience.

Guilt will disappear and its effects will disappear when you are willing
to be defenselessly present with your Brother or Sister. But you
won&rsquo;t be able to be defenselessly present with your Brother or
Sister until you&rsquo;ve cared enough about your Brother or Sister to
abandon your preconceptions about him or her, and your Brother&rsquo;s
and Sister&rsquo;s conceptions about himself or herself. And
you&rsquo;re willing to step back a moment and say, &ldquo;What is the
truth here Father? Reveal to me&mdash;reveal Yourself to me in them.
Help me to see You in them, so that I might look at them and remember
You, which is my function.&rdquo;

And as I said last time, the reason out of all the possible things that
you could do; the reason this one thing is your function, is because
it&rsquo;s the way you come back Home. It&rsquo;s the way you slip into
the little Gap. And I&rsquo;ll tell you, that as long as you&rsquo;re
dreaming, everything that confronts you is geared toward your waking up.
Everything is the opportunity for you to do the two-step.

You are your Brother&rsquo;s salvation and your Brother is your
salvation.

Now, it&rsquo;s time to lay guilt aside.

I know, many of you like the place in the Course where it says that a
time will come when you will lay your body aside. The visibility and
tangibility of God; the visibility and tangibility of Creation will
never be laid aside. What will be laid aside is the intent that each of
you thinks you have to carry out; to have false definitions about all of
Creation and you will lay those aside.

Now, I am saying, have a great reverence for the idea of laying guilt
aside. Let it die. Let it go. You can do it today. How? Not by doing
anything to it. And not by trying to improve your thinking. But by
abandoning thinking itself and going into the silence and listening.

And one of the best ways to silence judgment is by engaging in the
practice of blessing your Brothers and Sisters. Do it.  All week long,
do it, do it, do it, do it! It will transform you. Why? Because
you&rsquo;re thinking something right? No. Because you&rsquo;re
abandoning judgment; because you&rsquo;re silencing a fraudulent
mindset; and because you want to come Home.

I look forward to being with you next week. I thank you for your
attention and I ask you to bring your attention all week long into the
little gap, no matter what you&rsquo;re doing. Bless the dishes
you&rsquo;re washing. Bless the opportunity to be cleaning something.
Bless your Brothers and Sisters.

And, Bless yourselves. The movement of Love is the Movement of Creation.
Engage in It rather than the practice or valuing of guilt.

[^1]: T13.3 Release and Restoration

