---
title: Nov 10, 2007
ref: "T13.3 Release and Restoration"
alink: "/acim/text/13/chap1303/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

We&rsquo;ve been talking about guilt. We haven&rsquo;t been talking
about [gestures to the audience] you, or you, or you, or you, or you, or
you, or you, or you, or you, or any of you as being guilty, we&rsquo;ve
been talking about guilt. And we&rsquo;ve been talking about the fact
and presenting it as a fact, that guilt is just an idea which you employ
or which you don&rsquo;t employ.

It&rsquo;s a mean-spirited thought that you employ or don&rsquo;t
employ. You apply it like pinning a tail on a donkey. You apply it to
your friends and your enemies. And you apply it to yourself.

And then you act as though what you&rsquo;ve applied to yourself is real
and valuable and valid. And when you do that, you immediately set up for
yourself an expectation of a penalty being extracted from you. And you
fear the penalty. And you keep yourself, [chuckles] yes, you keep
yourself in an unforgiving state&mdash;an unforgiving ongoing state of
misery.

Once you begin to see that guilt is a thought or an idea which you are
employing and not an actual thing, it will become clear to you that it
isn&rsquo;t anything you can actually suffer from and it isn&rsquo;t
anything that you need to take seriously. That in fact, it&rsquo;s
something you can simply set aside. It is something that you no longer
have to practice on yourself and it&rsquo;s something that you no longer
have to practice on everyone else.

The only thing is, there&rsquo;s a little bit of a hooker. And that is,
that in order for you to set it aside, you have to abandon the thing
that has created the inner experience of discomfort that you are
identifying as guilt. And that something that you have to abandon, is a
strong commitment that you have that you are self-created; that
you&rsquo;ve just been born of a sperm and an egg and that you&rsquo;re
a physical embodiment of an organism of life, and that you&rsquo;re on
your own&mdash;you&rsquo;re all by yourself; that you make up the rules;
that you make your life what you want to make it and it&rsquo;s all up
to you.

This attitude overlooks something. And that is, that, that which creates
something knows how that something came to be. And you don&rsquo;t have
the foggiest notion of how you came to be. Here you are! You can&rsquo;t
explain it. I mean, you really can&rsquo;t explain how it is that a
microscopic sperm and a microscopic egg joining together could make this
incredible being that you are; with a capacity to think, with a capacity
to be conscious, let&rsquo;s put it that way, and experience infinity.
No one can account for the being that each one of you is, by virtue of
the penetration of an egg by a sperm and conceptualization happening.

So obviously, if you&rsquo;re going to be honest about it, you
didn&rsquo;t create yourself. And it&rsquo;s not all up to you. And
there is something else that is responsible for your existing.

The reason you feel uncomfortable and you call the discomfort guilt, you
also call it fear, is because you are assuming a responsibility for your
existence that cannot rest on your own shoulders. And when you try to
take that on your own shoulders, you feel the fact that something is
wrong here. You can feel the fact that what you are trying to do
isn&rsquo;t natural.

But the thing is, that this little independent mind that you think you
are, sees that and takes it on as a challenge and says, &ldquo;I can
overcome this! And I am going to overcome it, come hell or high
water!&rdquo; And sheer willfulness and determination comes into play,
is brought into play by each one of you in an attempt to overcome this
uncomfortable undercurrent of energy that you call either fear or guilt.

Now, as we&rsquo;ve been discussing for a number of weeks now, the only
way to dissolve and get rid of that undercurrent is not by thinking
better; is not by being better, but rather by abandoning the attempt to
be something all by yourself, on your own, independent from everything
else and saying, &ldquo;If I didn&rsquo;t create myself but I&rsquo;m
here, something must be responsible for my being here. If that&rsquo;s
the case, that means that right now and forever, I have been in a
relationship of some sort with That which is being me, since I am not
being myself.&rdquo;

This Something that you&rsquo;re in partnership with or that you are
inseparable from, has been called many things but the one that all of
you are familiar with is the word, God.

Now, if you want to get out of the arena or the level of experience in
which guilt is felt and fear is felt, you simply have to abandon the
idea or thought that you and you alone are responsible for your
well-being and what your life will be, and for your very existence. And
abandon the responsibility that comes along with that thought. And say
to whatever this Something is that you are in partnership with, &ldquo;I
yield to You, I yield to being in a partnership. I abandon my insistence
upon autonomous independence and autonomous or independent capacity to
be creative all by myself.

The moment that you, in effect say, &ldquo;Father,&rdquo; or
&ldquo;God,&rdquo; or &ldquo;That which Is and always has been All There
Is,&rdquo; the moment you say words like that, you are abandoning
your independence&mdash;you are letting in Something else. And when that
invitation to active or conscious partnership instead of unconscious
partnership; that invitation to conscious partnership moves you out of
the arena in which fear and guilt can be felt, whether what you were
feeling guilty about has changed or not, whether you have started
thinking better thoughts or not, the simple fact is, that you have all
thought and reasoned poorly because you thought that the discomfort or
dissonance that you were experiencing was real and was a statement of
guilt that was truly yours, that called down upon you necessarily,
punishment of some sort that was really going to hurt. And was going to
hurt so much that you were willing to bring all of your energy to bear
upon the situation to avoid it without doing the one essential thing,
which was or which is abandoning the attitude of independence and
consciously embracing this partnership which has eternally been the fact
about you.

Now you all know or most of you know that if you meditate, it
doesn&rsquo;t matter what state of mind you&rsquo;ve been in before you
sat down to meditate. If you were in a state of fear; if you were in a
state of anger; if you were in a fit of jealousy&mdash;all of which were
fully justifiable to you&mdash;if you sit down and meditate all of them
will vanish, for all of their justifiability they are gone and you are
experiencing peace. And you have the interesting experience of
discovering, and you don&rsquo;t know how it is you know it, but you
discover and know that this peace you are experiencing is real; is
something more actual about your being than the fear and the jealousy
and the anger that you were experiencing before you sat down and
meditated. You know that you have moved into, for lack of better words,
a different space in which fear and anger and jealousy and on and on and
on, are absent.

What seems to escape your attention is, that if you were to stay in that
space and return to your activities&mdash;whatever they might
be&mdash;whether it&rsquo;s going to school or going to a job or
cleaning a house and being a housewife and a mother or whatever, if you
were to stay in that space of peace, you would be able to be fully
functional without ever experiencing fear or jealousy or anger or guilt.

And in the absence of all of those negatives, you would find yourself
fully able to be responsive in the most incredible and apparently
creative ways relative to the housework or the schoolwork or the
parenting or whatever.

It&rsquo;s not your Birthright to be experiencing existence that is
constantly colored by fear, guilt, anxiety, jealousy, anger and so on.

Now, we&rsquo;re spending quite a bit of time on this subject because
guilt is the one subject that you use excessively on yourself and
others; and others use on you and themselves. And it&rsquo;s so much of
a habit that you don&rsquo;t even realize when you slip into employing
it or when you slip into justifying beating yourself up, because you
think you&rsquo;re guilty of something you should have done better.

And yet, the simple answer to the problem of being&mdash;what you might
call the problem of being&mdash;lies in the one single act of abandoning
the practice of guilt.

If you&rsquo;re not valuing guilt and therefore are not employing it on
yourself or on others, what could be said about you? What could describe
your state of existence? Well, the simple one word: forgiveness. If
you&rsquo;re not employing guilt, you&rsquo;re being the state of
forgiveness. In other words, you&rsquo;re being the absence of the
employment of guilt&mdash;the exercise of guilt, the attack of guilt.

And by comparison with when you were employing those things, you will
appear to have changed and to have become a very forgiving person.

But, let&rsquo;s understand something: The tendency is to believe that
forgiveness is something you offer to somebody who really has been
guilty; and you absolve them of their very real guilt by your great and
grand generosity in your extension of forgiveness to them. And that
is&mdash;pardon me&mdash;bullshit! Crap! It is stupidity!

Forgiveness is really a word describing you being in a state of mind
where the practice of guilt is absent. That&rsquo;s all. And you extend
to your brother your willingness to see him as guiltless.  You see, if
you can meditate and go into the Silence within and find the experience
of guilt to be gone and the fear associated with it, or you can find
anxiety absent, and your blood pressure going down; and if you can find
jealousy absent, and you have the experience of the Peace of Your Being
that you know is actual and that the fear, anxiety, jealousy, guilt and
so on was an invalid or unreal distorted mental experience, then you
will be able to look at your brother and know that if he&rsquo;s
experiencing any of those things or if she is experiencing any of those
things, they are an invalid experience for them as well. And they need
to be free of it. And they can be free of it by being or becoming
willing to abandon all attempts to be a really excellent autonomous
actor; creator of his experience at the expense of his awareness of his
Creator; at the expense of his awareness of his Oneness with his fellow
man.

Your brother doesn&rsquo;t deserve to be deluded any more than you have
deserved to be deluded. And so, you can&rsquo;t sit there and forgive
him for something you can now see he never did. He just got confused and
thought he was on his own and was overwhelmed with the responsibility of
being on his own well enough so that everybody would respect him. He got
overwhelmed by it. And in the state of overwhelm, he reacted. And his
reactions didn&rsquo;t match the reality of what he really is, or of
what his fellow man really is.

And so, he and his fellowman&mdash;you and your fellowman&mdash;have
bounced off of each other&rsquo;s ideas of righteousness and thoughts of
whether or not you&rsquo;re worth it or they&rsquo;re worth it; and
confidences that you&rsquo;re not worth it but you&rsquo;ve got to try;
and that they&rsquo;re not worth it&mdash;and [chuckle] they&rsquo;re so
not worth it&mdash;that you&rsquo;re not willing to try to have a better
sense of them than you currently have.

And so, you bounce off of each other negatively and it&rsquo;s your
misperception bouncing off of their misperception. And none of it will
happen; none of it would happen if you hadn&rsquo;t adopted this idea
that you and you alone, all by yourself, are the sole cause and creator
of whatever your life becomes.  It&rsquo;s that simple.

So, when the Course teaches forgiveness, it does not mean that
you&rsquo;re forgiving your brother for a very real guilt that he is
subject to. You are rather, standing without judgment&mdash;choosing to
see your brother with the help of God&rsquo;s Perspective, which is
indelibly built into you&mdash;and simply neglecting to inflict guilt
upon him or upon her.

And, if they still behave as though they are guilty, because
they&rsquo;re so convinced that they are on their own and totally
responsible for themselves; and it&rsquo;s too overwhelming a job for
them, you can confidently and competently and lovingly stand with them
and, for lack of better words, educate them out of it&mdash;help them
come out of their confusion&mdash;because you can see they don&rsquo;t
deserve to be suffering. They may need to change; but they can and
because they can, they don&rsquo;t need to be suffering forever. And
they deserve your time and attention.

As I said last week, the nature and function of the Course is
ecumenical, it&rsquo;s inclusive, it&rsquo;s embracing, it&rsquo;s
loving. And if your life isn&rsquo;t reflecting more and more of your
willingness to embrace, if it isn&rsquo;t easier and easier for people
to be around you and if it isn&rsquo;t easier and easier for you to be
around people, it&rsquo;s because you&rsquo;ve missed the point. The
point is Brotherhood, and the point is friendship; the point is
communication and communion; the point is togetherness; the point is
being without dissonance, without stress, without jealousy, without
fear, without guilt, so that the experience of a relationship is at once
peaceful and fulfilling.

Now, those are two key words. Peaceful could make it sound as though the
nature of the relationship might become boring. But fulfilling expresses
exactly the opposite because fulfillment is far from boring. It&rsquo;s
invigorating. It&rsquo;s satisfying. It&rsquo;s, for lack of better
words, enlarging. It makes you feel bigger, fuller, more all inclusive
than before. And this is the nature of relationships when guilt ceases
to be employed.

I&rsquo;m going to come back as I did last week, to this paragraph
because it&rsquo;s so important to remember it, since the subject of
guilt always implies condemnation upon you for some legitimate reason; a
condemnation that you seem not to be able to get out from under, which
is why it calls for such strenuous effort on your part to overcome this
injustice, you see.

And as I&rsquo;ve just explained that isn&rsquo;t what guilt is and that
isn&rsquo;t the response that is called for.

Now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Within you is the holy sign of perfect faith your Father has in you.[^1]
</div>

What&rsquo;s the holy sign that&rsquo;s in you? It&rsquo;s called the
Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit was placed in you by God.

It &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is the holy sign of perfect faith your Father has in you.
</div>

And you could say, in spite of how you have come to think about
yourselves; it doesn&rsquo;t matter what you&rsquo;ve come to believe
about yourself, what you have believed cannot change what you were
created to be. You don&rsquo;t think that you could decide to become a
dog or a cat and succeed at it.

Now, you might try crawling around on all fours and barking or meowing
and rubbing up against the furniture and peeing on the floor and do all
the things that puppies and kitties do. But you would still be a human
being behaving [chuckle] idiotically, wouldn&rsquo;t you? [Laughing]
Because you can&rsquo;t change what you are by imagining that
you&rsquo;re something else and even behaving as though you are
something else.

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Within you is the holy sign of perfect faith your Father has in you.
</div>

Now, again the Holy Spirit is another word for; are other words for;
that which is nothing more than your right Mind. And mind you, your
right Mind isn&rsquo;t an esoteric or a metaphysical concept. When you
meditate and you come to that place of peace within yourself, where
there is perfect quiet, you&rsquo;re experiencing your right Mind; which
is why the fear and the anxiety and the guilt and the jealousy and so on
are absent.

The place of quiet is right in the middle of you; right in the center of
you where the Altar of God is. As the Course puts it, where the Presence
of God being truly you is, which is your right Mind. It&rsquo;s right
there in the middle of you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He does not value you as you do.
</div>

&hellip; God doesn&rsquo;t. That means he doesn&rsquo;t devalue you as
you devalue yourself. At the moment you don&rsquo;t value yourself
highly. You value yourself lowly. And then you spend your lives
struggling to get higher. When all the time that you have adopted this
tiny stance and self-concept, you cannot accomplish that any more than
you can accomplish becoming a dog. And so, you&rsquo;re practicing being
something that you can&rsquo;t be, but it doesn&rsquo;t change what you
are.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Can YOU see guilt where God KNOWS there is perfect innocence?
</div>

&hellip; meaning in you?

Well you sure think you can. And you sure think other people can see it
in you. And you sure can become upset about what you think they might
do, because they know you&rsquo;re guilty.

But the fact is, that the only reason they can see guilt in you is
because they think guilt is a violable, meaningful thing to be
employed&mdash;something that is real. And they don&rsquo;t yet see, as
you don&rsquo;t yet see, that it&rsquo;s a discomfort that everyone
naturally feels when they try to do something they can&rsquo;t do, or
when they try to be something they cannot be. And their innate sanity
tells them, &ldquo;You cannot do this. You&rsquo;re trying to do the
impossible.&rdquo; And it has a sensation that gets your attention.
It&rsquo;s your sanity saying, &ldquo;Stop trying to do this! You
can&rsquo;t succeed! Give it up! Come back into your right Mind.&rdquo;

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Can YOU see guilt where God KNOWS there is perfect innocence?
</div>

Well, yeah, you can.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You can DENY his knowledge, but you cannot CHANGE it.
</div>

You can believe and claim that you&rsquo;re guilty, but you cannot
change the fact that you aren&rsquo;t.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Look, then, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; upon the light He placed within you, and learn that what you
feared was there HAS BEEN replaced with love.
</div>

You&rsquo;re all afraid that if you look within you will find
confirmation of your guilt and it will condemn you to a state of
existence that you will never be able to get out of. And so, of course,
you don&rsquo;t want to look within. It&rsquo;s sort of like saying, you
don&rsquo;t want to meditate, because that&rsquo;s what looking within
is&mdash;meditating. And if you have meditated, you found that when
you&rsquo;ve gone within you haven&rsquo;t found confirmation of your
guilt. You&rsquo;ve been removed from the arena in which that seems to
be going on. And what you need to do is to hold on to that state of
peace and insist upon going through your day being out from that place.

And how do you do that? You say, &ldquo;Father,
God,&rdquo;&mdash;whatever word you want to use&mdash;you say,
&ldquo;Father, stay with me, and help me be in this place. Help me not
suddenly slip and abandon You. Let me not forget about being joined, so
that when apparent challenges come my way, I will stay with You and look
at it from this peace which is inseparable from our joining. So that I
might live through what comes up in ways that identify peace and
fulfillment and nothing else. Because I really want to exist differently
than the way I have been existing.&rdquo;

Now, let&rsquo;s continue from where we left off last week.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you maintain that you are guilty but the source lies in the PAST,
you are NOT looking inward.
</div>

Remember, past isn&rsquo;t really an existential part of time, just as
the future is not. The past is memory and the future is imagination. The
only thing that you have as a conscious experience ever, is the moment
you are in&mdash;now. In the now you may draw upon memory to remember
the past and to remember the injustices and the hurts; and to remember
the mistakes you made and perhaps how they hurt other people; and how,
therefore, you are guilty. And you use the past as justification for
penalizing yourself and causing yourself to be miserable now, when the
past isn&rsquo;t going on and where the call for penalty, for guilt, is
non-existent.

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you maintain that you are guilty but the source lies in the PAST,
you are NOT looking inward.
</div>

If you were looking inward, you would be moving into the quiet place in
you, your center, you would be meditating. And there you cannot find the
past. All you can find there is an incredibly heightened experience of
now. Not so bad to have that kind of an experience available to you so
easily.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The past is not IN you. Your weird associations &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; mental associations&mdash;your connecting together of ideas and
memories to create a picture that justifies your being mad at yourself
or justifies your being mad at somebody else. These &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your weird associations to it have no meaning in the present. Yet you
let them stand between you and your brothers, with whom you find no REAL
relationships at all.
</div>

&ldquo;Well, you know, look at you. You know, the way you&rsquo;re
behaving today is the way you behaved a year ago; and a year before
that, and ten years before that. You know, look at you; your history
convicts you&mdash;now. And I&rsquo;m going to hold you to whatever it
is you&rsquo;re doing right now. I&rsquo;m going to hold you to it with
criticism because not only is it a stupid thing to be doing now, it is a
demonstration of the fact that you haven&rsquo;t learned anything for
ten years. You&rsquo;re just where you were ten years ago. And you know
what? I don&rsquo;t know, I don&rsquo;t know if I want to continue
having patience with you, when you&rsquo;re obviously unwilling to
learn.&rdquo;

You let them, your weird associations regarding the past, stand between
you and your brothers, with whom you have no real relationships at all.
Why? Why no real relationship? Because in the moment you&rsquo;re in
that&rsquo;s when the only real thing is happening. That&rsquo;s when
you are present with your brother or your sister or your wife or your
daughter or your son or your father or your mother. In the moment
you&rsquo;re in is where connection can occur.

You cannot connect with them five minutes ago. You cannot connect with
them a year ago. But if you are looking at them through your memory of
all of their past behavior that shows to you that they&rsquo;re
unwilling to grow, you&rsquo;re not connecting with them at all.
You&rsquo;re connecting with your picture of them; your assessment of
them, and the judgments that you have applied to them because of the
awful assessments you&rsquo;ve been making about them. And so no real
connection is occurring now. No real relationship.

You let the past&mdash;your memory&mdash;stand between you and your
brothers, with whom you find no real relationships at all because
you&rsquo;re not present with them in the moment where something really
is happening.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Can you expect to use your brothers as a means to &ldquo;solve&rdquo;
the past, and still to see them as they really are?
</div>

[Chuckle] Can you reasonably expect to look at them through the lens of
the past and at the same time connect with them now? That is an
irrational thought. No, you cannot.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Salvation is not found by those who use their brothers to resolve
problems which are not there.
</div>

Are not where? Are not here, in the moment in which connection can
occur. Further, if in the moment where connection can occur, each of you
is taking the time to become centered; to become still and not employ
memory or imagination, you will find yourself in your peace where
judgment is absent, where the capacity to judge is absent, but where the
capacity to love is fully present. Where the capacity to be connected in
peace and fulfillment exists as an actuality.

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Salvation &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what&rsquo;s salvation? The experience of peace and
fulfillment; the experience of joy, of the experience of being conscious
without conflict. There you go.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Salvation is not found by those who use their brothers to resolve
problems which are not there.
</div>

Where? Here, in the now.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You wanted not salvation in the past.
</div>

I would say that you always had wanted salvation, but to whatever degree
you valued employing guilt and laying guilt trips on others and
extracting penalties from them so you could get them to behave in a way
that didn&rsquo;t upset your plans, you didn&rsquo;t want salvation. You
wanted justice according to your terms of what justice meant. And you
were willing to use guilt to accomplish it. You were willing to use
guilt as the leverage, the force, to get someone to do what you wanted
them to do, whether it was good or not.

So you didn&rsquo;t want salvation in the past, because you preferred to
employ something else. That&rsquo;s all there is to it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Would you impose your idle wishes &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in other words, the wishes you were utilizing in the past.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Would you impose your idle wishes on the present &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in the now, where connection and communication can really
occur?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Would you impose your idle wishes on the present, and hope to find
salvation NOW?
</div>

Well, I&rsquo;m going to tell you that you all do. Today, you all have
done it in one way or another whether you wanted to or not, whether that
was ultimately what you wanted, it&rsquo;s second nature to you at the
moment.

And that&rsquo;s why we&rsquo;re spending so much time on this subject.
Because you deserve to be free of the habit. You deserve to be free of
unconsciously slipping into a way of behaving that is absolutely
destructive to the connection in the moment where there&rsquo;s really
something happening, where there&rsquo;s really someone present.
I&rsquo;m going to say, where there&rsquo;s really two someone&rsquo;s
present to connect with and to experience the bond; to experience the
sense of family; whether it&rsquo;s real family or whether it&rsquo;s
the grocery store clerk that you&rsquo;re talking to at the moment that
is part of the family of man, we&rsquo;ll say.

So why are we talking about it? Were talking about this to motivate you
to change; to motivate you to try something else, instead of what
hasn&rsquo;t worked forever.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Determine, then&hellip;
</div>

Become determined and become decisive.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Determine, then, to be not as you were.
</div>

Determine to try something new, because there&rsquo;s a new result to a
new attitude, always. If there&rsquo;s nothing new, there&rsquo;s been
no change of attitude. If there&rsquo;s nothing new, you have not let in
any other way of experiencing things than the past ways that you are
diligently holding onto for dear life. And which, you are holding onto
for dear life because you are afraid of the penalty that is going to
come down on you; because you are guilty for something and you
don&rsquo;t know what it is. It just hangs there, over you, and
threatens you with penalty that you will be very sorry for.

But you know what? It never reveals to you what you are guilty
of&mdash;never! And you can go looking for it and spend lifetimes trying
to find out what it is you are guilty of, and you will never find it.
Because you&rsquo;re not guilty of any actions, of any act, of any
determination that you were able to carry out in opposition to what
reality will allow.

And so you&rsquo;ve never accomplished anything that you could actually
be penalized for, but you have accomplished something: You&rsquo;ve
accomplished a frame of mind that is very confused and thinks that
things are true that are not true.

But you know what? As the saying goes regarding women, you can always
change your mind&mdash;even if you&rsquo;re a man. And where women are
willing to change their mind&mdash;much to the exasperation of
men&mdash;men can be willing to change their mind too and discover the
freedom from bondage to their mindsets that can come from it. Because if
you can change your mind, you can decide to stop doing what
doesn&rsquo;t work and start doing something that does work even though
what does work would never have occurred to you to be a worthy goal
before. You see.

You have been taught… taught… taught… taught to use your mind well; to
think well, to learn how to be reasonable, to use logic well, to express
yourself concisely, to use as few words as possible and have maximum
communication. All of these things you&rsquo;ve been taught are worthy
of your energy and attention. They constitute goals that are
significantly meaningful to you.

But you know what? The moment you have a slight glimpse that maybe
you&rsquo;re not an autonomous entity and maybe you never were supposed
to carry the whole burden of the creation of your life and the success
of your life on your shoulders privately; the moment that begins to dawn
on you, it becomes easy for you to change your mind and experiment.

Hey, experiment. Try something new. See if it works. And try, not
thinking better, not thinking more efficiently, but not thinking at all.
Now there&rsquo;s a goal that never would have occurred to you to be a
worthy goal. And yet, when you meditate, you move into a place where
you&rsquo;re fully, totally conscious but you&rsquo;re not having a
single thought. And in the absence of the noise of a thought, this
silence is experienced as being infinite&mdash;huge, embracing
everything. And you can&rsquo;t find words to share that experience with
others after you&rsquo;ve stopped meditating.

You have a whole new experience of what it means to exist awaiting you
when you dare to abandon the valuing and the employing of guilt on
yourself or on your brothers and sisters.

Remembering the hooker, as it were, that in order not to experience
guilt and employ it on your brothers and sisters you have to abandon
your lonely, suffering isolation and you have to acknowledge this
something that you have to be in partnership with if, indeed, you did
not create yourself.

So, if you simply face the facts that you don&rsquo;t know how you
created yourself and therefore you can&rsquo;t possibly have created
yourself; and you just acknowledged that there must be something in
addition to you responsible for you&mdash;responsible for your
existence&mdash;that moves you out of your isolation, that is the
equivalent of meditating.

And in that union&mdash;that partnering, let&rsquo;s say&mdash;with your
Creator, you open up to yourself the means of being guiltless and of
recognizing, realizing that your brother and sister and everyone and
everything is guiltless. And you&rsquo;re able to have compassion upon
your brothers and sisters who are still feeling guilty, because
it&rsquo;s clear to you that they don&rsquo;t need to be. And in the
absence of your judgment on their insensitive and crazy
behavior&mdash;because they are confused&mdash;in the absence of that
judgment on your part, you find them worth giving your energy and
attention to in helping them abandon their ignorance.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Determine, then, to be not as you were.
</div>

&hellip; in the past. And I would add, determine then, to not try to be
what you want to be in the future. Abandon both ends of the spectrum, so
that you can be present in the moment where things are really happening
and things are really available to experience.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Use no relationship to hold you to the past&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and I would add, use no relationship to hold anyone else to the
past.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; but with each one &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; each relationship &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; each day be born again.
</div>

What does that mean? Oh-h-h, you&rsquo;re gonna roll around on the floor
and talk in tongues and, you know, be born again. No. In each moment, be
in the moment where connection can occur, because there&rsquo;s really
something present to connect&mdash;or there are two something&rsquo;s
present to really connect. And in being willing to be in that moment you
are born again, you are able to experience Being without it being
colored by the past. And in that sense it&rsquo;s new, and you&rsquo;re
born again.

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Use no relationship to hold you to the past&hellip;
</div>

You know it&rsquo;s what you all do. But it isn&rsquo;t getting you
anything helpful. So, you know, there&rsquo;s no judgment here,
it&rsquo;s not: &ldquo;Use no relationship to hold you to the past, you
idiot!&rdquo; No, don&rsquo;t do anything silly or ridiculous. You
don&rsquo;t have to use relationships to hold you to the past.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; but with each one each day be born again.
</div>

You can do that instead. You know, it&rsquo;s a simple penalty-less
choice you have. It&rsquo;s Grace.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
A minute, even less, will be enough to free you from the past&hellip;
</div>

When it says even less than a minute, it can just be the moment. Your
willingness to just be innocently present in the moment, bringing
nothing ugly into it; being innocently aware in the moment&mdash;in just
a moment&mdash;that&rsquo;s all it takes to free yourself from the past
and the future.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
A minute, even less, will be enough to free you from the past, and give
your mind in peace over to the Atonement.
</div>

The Atonement: the transition or the transformation within you in which
you stop trying to be what you aren&rsquo;t and let yourself be what you
Are. When you stop trying to be independent and let yourself be joined
in a Partnership that is an unalterable and essential part of existing
for you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When everyone is welcome to you as you would have yourself be welcome to
your Father, you will see no guilt in you.
</div>

Now, you might have thought that, that sentence should say:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When everyone is welcome to you as you would have yourself be welcome to
your Father, you will see no guilt in &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; them. [Chuckle] You see. But no, you will see no guilt in you.
When you are willing to be present with your brother and give to him the
awareness of his guiltlessness you get to keep what you&rsquo;ve given.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and you will see no guilt in you.
</div>

That&rsquo;s just the simplicity of the way things work.

But you know what? Most of you have great faith in the complicated. And
because it&rsquo;s complicated it must be really valuable. And it must
really be worth the energy it takes to get the complicated thing under
your belt so that you can utilize it well. It&rsquo;s all in simplicity.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When everyone is welcome to you as you would have yourself be welcome to
your Father, you will see no guilt in you. For you will have accepted
the Atonement&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the transformation and presence of peace and fulfillment in
you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you will have accepted the Atonement, which shone within you
all the while you dreamed of guilt, and would not look within and see
it.
</div>

Again, you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; would not look within and see it.
</div>

&hellip; because from your guilt ridden perspective, the flat-out
assumption was made, that when you looked within you would find absolute
confirmation of your guilt that you would never in all of eternity be
able to escape from. And the fact is, that such confirmation is not
there.

The truth about guilt is the most wonderful truth you can learn and
embrace. It is what will finally transform the world.

I could ask: Are you willing to be agents for change of that sort? Well,
let me ask this: Is it worth it not to be an agent for change of that
sort, if not being an agent for change of that sort means that you will
never experience your guiltlessness? Is anything worth that? Especially
now that you know that there&rsquo;s a way to escape an illegitimate
imposition of guilt upon you that has kept you struggling without
resolve forever and ever, as long as you&rsquo;ve employed it.

So, this coming week holds a great deal for all of you; the
transformation of the world that you&rsquo;ll get to keep.

I&rsquo;m so happy for you. I want you to be happy for yourselves,
because you deserve what the subject of this section is called,
&ldquo;Release and Restoration.&rdquo;

Okay.

[^1]: T13.3 Release and Restoration

