---
title: Nov 18, 2007
ref: "T13.3 Release and Restoration"
alink: "/acim/text/13/chap1303/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

Well, we&rsquo;re going to jump right in &hellip;

Guilt is an act of insanity that all of you engage in because you have
forgotten who you Are.

That means that guilt is an illusion. Guilt is an imagination. Guilt is
a figment of the imagination. And yet, you all employ it as though
it&rsquo;s an actuality. And you bring it into play with vigor against
yourself and against each other. And you think that its excellent
employment is what will give you credibility and respectability.

But of course, the key is, that this self that is going to get
respectability is an orphan&mdash;something else imagined; something
else, not actual.

And to get free of the insanity of the practice of guilt, one has to
finally become willing to abandon the stance of orphan. And of course,
in order to do that, one has to not only, let&rsquo;s say, remember who
you Are, you have to accept who you Are&mdash;the offspring or
expression of Something else not yourself; God.

And then you have to be willing as we said last week, to go into
partnership [chuckles] or to re-assume a partnership that was never
absolved or never dissolved except in the imagination.

Now, before we continue on, there is an aspect of guilt that really
needs to be not only understood, but felt by each of you. You think
guilt is actual and so you employ it. So far so good, unless
you&rsquo;re employing it against yourself. If you&rsquo;re employing it
against your Brother, so far so good, you think, because you&rsquo;re
not called upon to feel guilty when you&rsquo;re calling upon your
Brother to feel guilty. But just wait until your Brother does the same
thing to you and calls upon you to feel guilty. Um-m &hellip; now
you&rsquo;re getting into hot water. And you, if you pay attention to
the experience of guilt, find that it is always accompanied by fear.
Always. And the thing you don&rsquo;t realize is, that fear is always
accompanied by guilt.

You might think, &ldquo;Oh, well, I&rsquo;m afraid if I see a truck
bearing down on me or I&rsquo;m afraid if I see somebody about to attack
me and that has nothing to do with guilt.&rdquo;

Oh, it does, it does. Because you cannot avoid feeling guilty for what
you&rsquo;re incompetent to respond to.

If you&rsquo;re incompetent to deal with a diesel truck bearing down on
you that you can&rsquo;t get out of the way of, or if you feel
incompetent to deal with a bully; you&rsquo;re five-foot-two and this
six-foot tall macho guy is bearing down on you with no respect for your
puny self, you feel fear, you say. But no, you feel incompetent to cope
with the situation. And that always introduces guilt.

Guilt is the experience of dissonance that you have when you think that
you are an orphan; when you think, first of all, that you are a
definition you&rsquo;ve given yourself that is not the truth about you.

To be an orphan is to feel incompetent. It&rsquo;s a fearful experience.
And because it involves, at the bottom line, a denial of your heritage;
a denial of your Birthright because it&rsquo;s a denial of your having a
Source other than yourself, or processes of evolution, the experience of
guilt and fear always accompany each other. And it&rsquo;s not your
Birthright to be experiencing them.

Now, here&rsquo;s what happens. Here&rsquo;s the actuality of the
experience&mdash;the apparent experience of guilt and fear: Guilt or
fear presents itself, always with its partner, no matter which one seems
to present itself first. And then, fear and guilt create a continuous
loop&mdash;a continuous loop that responds to itself over and over and
over and over and feeds on itself and seems to become greater and
greater and more fascinating and more fascinating and more compelling.

It actually becomes mesmeric; hypnotic. And you lose your capacity to be
in balance. You lose your capacity to experience with perspective. And
ultimately, you will exert guilt upon your Brother in whatever ultimate
form you can come up with. And of course, you lay the dirtiest of the
dirt about your Brother on him last&mdash;you save the best for last;
the thing that will make him buckle and fall to his knees, you know.
&ldquo;If you don&rsquo;t yield to me, I&rsquo;m going to tell your wife
that you had an affair with Pricilla. I&rsquo;ll make it very public.
I&rsquo;ll ruin your marriage, I&rsquo;ll ruin your life, I&rsquo;ll
foul things up for you at your job.&rdquo; You see? Oh boy, more guilt,
more fear.

And why do you do this? Because you have become mesmerized. You have
been caught in this loop. When you get caught in the loop, you&rsquo;re
always rehearsing the same information over and over and over again; the
same distorted insane information over and over again with more and more
gusto, more and more commitment. And it seems to become impossible for
you to even want to know the truth.

You&rsquo;re not the least bit interested in knowing whatever it is that
might allow you to calm down and not feel this way anymore. Why? Because
you want justice!

For you to have been put in a position where you&rsquo;re having to
acknowledge your incompetence, you want justice because that was so
unkind&mdash;so not nice.

Competence cannot be gained by the skillful employment of guilt and
fear.

Now, don&rsquo;t be so spiritual that you&rsquo;re not willing to look
at your behavior and examine it honestly within yourself because you all
know when you&rsquo;ve gotten angry and angrier and angrier and
you&rsquo;ve finally flown off the handle at the expense of your Brother
or your Sister and you just couldn&rsquo;t help yourself.

Now, you can fool yourself by saying that this response is a survival
response; that, in terms of survival, you have two choices: Fight or
flight. And of course, if you&rsquo;re not going to be a wimp,
you&rsquo;re not going to use flight as the option, you&rsquo;re going
to fight. You&rsquo;re going to stand and aggressively protect yourself.
Get your credibility back. Get it established in the mind of your
enemy&mdash;your opponent; the one you&rsquo;re attempting to make feel
guilty enough to back down.

What you haven&rsquo;t known is, that this insistence that you feel,
upon following through with all of your might to inflict guilt so as to
bring about &ldquo;a good result&rdquo; is a result of mesmerism; is an
example of your behavior not being controlled by your innate
intelligence, but rather from you&rsquo;re getting caught in a
continuous loop that feeds on itself and literally embodies no
intelligence at all. And literally, therefore, cannot lead you to a
solution of the problem that started it.

Now, I&rsquo;ve brought this up before, because you all talk about
wanting to wake up&mdash;you&rsquo;re all reading the Course because you
want to wake up&mdash;or you want to experience enlightenment and
something in you knows that there is really such a thing as
enlightenment. And you know what? In order for you to experience this,
you&rsquo;re going to need to experience healing. And you&rsquo;re going
to need for your Brothers and Sisters to experience healing. And
you&rsquo;re going to need to contribute to the experience of healing.
And if what one needs to be healed from can be justified as real, and
the result of that one&rsquo;s failure in some area of his life to deal
with himself or his experience intelligently, then that justification
simply negates completely the opportunity for healing to be experienced.

Whatever standards of reasoning are being used to justify a problem,
exist in the different realm, I&rsquo;m going to say, than the realm of
reality where that thing that needs correction doesn&rsquo;t exist.
Because, for lack of better words, God didn&rsquo;t create it. God did
not create you to suffer. God didn&rsquo;t create your Brother to
suffer. God didn&rsquo;t create you to have diseases. God didn&rsquo;t
create your Brother to have diseases. God didn&rsquo;t create you or
your Brother to have a capacity to mistreat yourself and thereby
actually cause justifiable damage or disease that you must therefore
suffer through, because you must pay for your flaws and your failure.

God didn&rsquo;t do it. Therefore, whether it&rsquo;s cancer or whether
it&rsquo;s a sudden injury from accident, you are not bound. You are not
bound to suffer from it for more than an instant. If God didn&rsquo;t
set it into motion, it hasn&rsquo;t been set into motion and the
experience you&rsquo;re having is not going on in your right Mind.

Because there is another arena, we will say, in which reality is going
on and is governed by God, there is awaiting you, escape from whatever
mindset you have bound yourself to or whatever false interpretations you
have placed upon all of Creation, so that you are misunderstanding it
and misbehaving with it in a way that&rsquo;s causing you discomfort.

You all deserve to be healed. You hear that? You all deserve to be
healed. There is nothing that exists that can justify your suffering, no
matter what. And if you want to experience waking up, if you want to
experience enlightenment, you&rsquo;re going to have to stop employing
what keeps you from experiencing it.

Now, in metaphysical lingo, let&rsquo;s say, over the last hundred and
fifty years, a phrase has come into play and it&rsquo;s not a very kind
phrase. But it&rsquo;s one that gets used over and over:
&ldquo;There&rsquo;s a reason for everything.&rdquo; Now, when this is
used, metaphysically speaking, it can be used in the most nebulous of
ways to imply that if you&rsquo;re having this problem or that problem,
well there&rsquo;s a reason for it: &ldquo;Maybe it&rsquo;s Karma. Maybe
it&rsquo;s something that&rsquo;s fouled up in your mind. But
there&rsquo;s a reason for everything.&rdquo; Not true.

Let&rsquo;s go into the Book.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As long as you believe that guilt is justified in ANY way, in ANYONE,
WHATEVER he may do, you will not look within, where you would ALWAYS
find Atonement. [^1]
</div>

Remember, we talked about the fact that when you look within, where you
think you are going to find absolute evidence of your guilt, when you
actually look within, you will not find it there. You will find love
there; the love that is your Be-ing because it is the Presence of God in
you. And it is there to be extended to everything you are aware of. And
it is natural for it to be extended to everything you are aware of. If
you will look within, you will ALWAYS find Atonement.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The end of guilt will never come as long as you believe there is a
REASON for it.
</div>

Oh-h, well, the orphan says, [chuckles] &ldquo;That is insane! How can
there be no reason for guilt? To believe that is insane.&rdquo; But
remember, guilt is an act of insanity employed by one who doesn&rsquo;t
remember who he Is. Guilt is the active insanity because there is no
reason for it.

What would constitute a reason for guilt? The only thing that would
constitute a reason for guilt would be God saying, &ldquo;You are
guilty!&rdquo; Then guilt would be eternally real and actual. But God
has yet to have said that. And therefore, guilt has not been set into
place as a part of Creation. It doesn&rsquo;t exist as an actuality,
only as an insane practice in your minds which means its just a
thought&mdash;a thought which you don&rsquo;t have to employ.

And it&rsquo;s this simple clarity that you can embrace and remind
yourself of every time you feel inclined to get upset and to employ
guilt.

Now, you understand that the employment of guilt is not an act of
reason. The employment of guilt is not an act of reason. Not only that,
it sets into place this continuous loop that you become subject to
because you feed it with your attention and your emotion.

And you become blinder and blinder and blinder to any capacity you have
to employ perspective&mdash;broad perspective that goes beyond the
details of your justifications for guilt; that goes beyond your
inclination to harangue your Brother or your Sister and insist upon
their being miserable because they&rsquo;re guilty.

Again, as long as you do this, you stay in that continuous loop blind to
the broader perspective that shows you the insanity of that continuous
loop and the fact that it is not a valid basis for any conclusions to be
arrived at from.

You don&rsquo;t want to engage in an insane act that causes you to
appear to be insane and causes you to experience yourself as being
insane. Why? Because you deserve peace. You deserve the clarity of a
balanced perspective and the peace of mind that comes from Knowing who
you Are. And that comes from Knowing who your Brother is because you
know who you Are.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The end of guilt will never come as long as you believe there is a
REASON for it.
</div>

And likewise, the end of disease and injury will never come as long as
you believe there is a REASON for it.

&ldquo;What do you mean? I just saw that bus hit that fellow and severed
his arm. What do you mean his arm wasn&rsquo;t severed? What do you mean
there wasn&rsquo;t any reason for it?&rdquo;

What I mean is, that if God did not enact that drama, it hasn&rsquo;t
happened. And in the realization that it hasn&rsquo;t happened,
instantaneous healing can occur &hellip; instantaneous healing can
occur. Would you not like to be an agent for change for that kind of
experience? You can be. But you have to be willing to look at things and
not take them the way you have determined them to be by the definitions
you have been employing.

A Course In Miracles came into existence, we&rsquo;ll say, because
someone said, &ldquo;There must be a different way to look at
this.&rdquo; And there is. But as long as you continue to look the old
way and hold onto it with all vigor, you will not see the different way;
you will not see the healing; you will not see the transformation and
you will not see release and restoration, the subject of this section
that we&rsquo;re reading.

Dare to be radical here. But realize that if you&rsquo;re going to be
radical and experience transformation, you&rsquo;re going to have to
stop doing the thing that keeps you from experiencing the
transformation. And the one thing that is going to make that difference
is your neglecting to practice guilt; your neglecting to employ guilt
and your neglecting to justify yourself or your brother or sister as
deserving of the experience of guilt and the penalty that necessarily
accompanies it. That choice is yours every moment. You&rsquo;re not
bound to suffer, you&rsquo;re not bound to employ guilt, you&rsquo;re
not bound to continue to do what doesn&rsquo;t work and what
doesn&rsquo;t serve you.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The end of guilt will never come as long as you believe there is a
REASON for it. For you must learn that guilt is ALWAYS &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; totally &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; not just a little bit, but &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; totally insane, and HAS no reason. The Holy Spirit seeks not to
dispel reality. If GUILT were real ATONEMENT would not be. The purpose
of Atonement is to dispel illusions, not to establish them as real and
THEN forgive them.
</div>

How do you dispel illusions when you think illusions are actualities?
How do you dispel your justifications for employing guilt when you think
that it&rsquo;s part of the survival mechanism of your
being&mdash;something as inseparable from you as your existence? How do
you dispel that? Well, you don&rsquo;t until someone comes along and
says, &ldquo;Hey, this is not something inseparable from your existence.
This is a behavior that you have acquired through ignorance. And you can
abandon it.&rdquo;

It&rsquo;s like you&rsquo;ve grown up. And every moment of your life,
except when you&rsquo;re asleep, is one of constant streaming of
thoughts and you think that being conscious is inseparable from
thinking. You think that thinking and being are one and the same thing,
until one day you learn how to meditate. And then you find that you can
experience periods of quiet&mdash;pure conscious awareness without a
single thought&mdash;an experience of being totally aware of everything
without thinking a thought about everything; an experience of connection
with everything in the silence to a much fuller and deeper degree
without any thought processes whatsoever, without any examination of
anything, but just by virtue of being conscious.

And then you realize that something that you thought was absolutely
inseparable from your existence that was absolutely inseparable from
being aware wasn&rsquo;t absolutely inseparable from being aware.

Thinking is not essential to being conscious&mdash;fully conscious, and
I&rsquo;m going to say, infinitely conscious. Likewise, guilt is not a
part of your very existence. It&rsquo;s not a part of the fiber of your
being that is essential for your survival. It is an illusion employed by
a delusion. And the delusion that employs guilt is called an orphan. And
that&rsquo;s what you have thought you are. But the you that you are is
not an orphan. The orphan is just a thought you had about yourself, that
you&rsquo;ve taken hold of and fleshed out and given more and more
definitions to&mdash;fleshed your orphanhood out until you thought it
was undeniable. But it&rsquo;s not the truth about you either.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The purpose of Atonement is to dispel illusions, not to establish them
as real and THEN forgive them.

The Holy Spirit &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; u-mm, that which is nothing more than your right Mind &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; does not keep illusions in your mind to frighten you, and show
them to you fearfully to demonstrate what He has saved you FROM. What He
has saved you from is GONE.
</div>

What He has saved you from is that which He has uncovered an awareness
of in you that it never existed&mdash;that it was an imagination.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Give no reality to guilt, and see NO reason for it.
</div>

Now that is a sentence that needs to be on every bumper on every
automobile in the world, or at the least on everyone&rsquo;s
refrigerator.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Give no reality to guilt, and see NO reason for it.
</div>

That is the answer.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit does what God would have Him do, and has always done so.
He &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; has seen separation, but knows of union. He teaches healing but
He also knows of creation.
</div>

That which is nothing more than your right Mind &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; has seen separation, but knows of union.
</div>

That which is nothing more than your right Mind &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; teaches healing but He also knows of creation.
</div>

What does that mean? It means that the Holy Spirit&mdash;that which is
nothing more than your right Mind&mdash;like Me, says healing is what
you should be experiencing even though you, in your right Mind, together
with Me, know that you&rsquo;ve never been less than what God created
you as, that you are nothing less than what God is being right where you
are right now, and therefore there literally is nothing occurring that
needs healing. You see?

You and I know this. At the moment, I&rsquo;m the only one of us who
believes it. But the knowing is in you awaiting your discovery by virtue
of your becoming alert enough and having enough broad perspective to see
the mechanism of guilt&mdash;the insane thought processes that cause
this continuous loop to be initiated and to expand until it has consumed
you&mdash;so that you can let it go because of the perspective you now
have.

[Raj did not read this: He &hellip;
{: .omit}

&hellip; the Holy Spirit, that which is nothing more than your right
Mind &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; would have you see and teach as He does, and through Him.
</div>

In other words, the Holy Spirit would have you come into your right
Mind, so that your right Mind is no longer the Holy Spirit that
you&rsquo;re listening to, but yourself that you&rsquo;ve recognized and
embraced and are willing to embody.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet what He knows you do not know, though it is yours.
</div>

What your right Mind knows you do not at the moment know, feel,
recognize, experience because you&rsquo;re so confident about the way
you&rsquo;re seeing things. And you think that your awakening is going
to be built on the way you&rsquo;re currently seeing things. Therefore,
it is difficult for you to be willing to let go of what you currently
believe because you think what you currently believe is part of the
stepping-stone process of arriving where you&rsquo;re going.

No, there is a point where you&rsquo;re going to have to walk to the
foyer of the orphanage and step outside and abandon the whole concept of
orphanhood and everything associated with it, so that you might remember
who you really Are. Your experience of orphanhood is not the
stepping-stone to your discovery of yourself as the Son or Daughter of
God. It&rsquo;s not.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
NOW it is given you to heal and teach, to make what will be NOW.
</div>

Now, this does not mean to bring the future into the now. It means to
bring the ultimate that is the fact now but which you&rsquo;re not
conscious of, which makes it something awaiting you in your future. It
means bringing the ultimate into the now.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; it is given you to heal and teach, to make what will be NOW. As
yet it is NOT now. The Son of God&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; believes that he is lost in guilt, alone in a dark world where
pain is pressing everywhere upon him from WITHOUT.
</div>

That&rsquo;s the typical orphan experience.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When he has looked within and seen the radiance there, he will remember
how much his Father loves him.
</div>

When you actually take time to be silent, to go within, and you find
that your thinking has been abandoned and you are experiencing the peace
of your being, there is something else accompanying it. It is the
experience of Love and the experience of Joy. And the Love is loving
you. But you also know that the Love that&rsquo;s loving you is the Love
that you Are. And the Love that&rsquo;s loving you is infinite, not
confined to what you thought you are; that everything in all of Creation
is extending you Love. And this Love that&rsquo;s coming from all of
Creation is the Love that you Are. And there is inseparable Oneness.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When he has looked within &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the orphan has &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and seen the radiance there, he will remember how much his
Father loves him. And it will seem incredible that he has ever thought
his Father loved him not, and looked upon him as condemned. The moment
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; now this is a statement of fact:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The moment that you realize guilt is INSANE, WHOLLY unjustified and
WHOLLY without reason, you will not fear to look upon the Atonement and
accept it wholly.
</div>

Listen to this:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You who have been unmerciful unto yourselves do not remember your
Father&rsquo;s Love.
</div>

You who have been unmerciful unto yourself and unto each other do not
remember your Father&rsquo;s Love. And that&rsquo;s why you&rsquo;ve
been unmerciful to each other. But your Father&rsquo;s Love has been
present. And you know what? You have been your Father&rsquo;s Son or
your Father&rsquo;s Daughter all along. But you thought you were an
orphan and so the word, &ldquo;Father&rdquo; was nonsensical,
meaningless. That was an insane concept.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You who have been unmerciful unto yourselves do not remember your
Father&rsquo;s Love. And looking without mercy upon your brothers, you
do not remember how much You love HIM.
</div>

God. Because you haven&rsquo;t looked into your brother&rsquo;s eyes yet
and remembered God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet it is forever true. In shining peace within you &hellip;
</div>

Here&rsquo;s the truth. Here&rsquo;s the truth about each one of you
guilty bastards and each one of you guilty bitches, who do nothing but
make life miserable. And who deserve to be drawn and quartered, slowly,
so that you experience agony for as long as possible.

That&rsquo;s a different world from reality. And it&rsquo;s all
imagination. It&rsquo;s all mean-spirited imagination. And it&rsquo;s
mean-spirited imagination that feeds upon itself and grows itself into
terrible proportions and consumes you and deprives you of your capacity
to be sane and to experience the joy and the fulfillment that is a
natural accompaniment of sanity. We&rsquo;ll say, healing that is a
natural accompaniment of sanity.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In shining peace within you is the perfect purity in which you were
created. Fear not to look upon the lovely truth in you. Look THROUGH the
cloud of guilt that dims your vision&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; cloud, nebulous, effervescent, intangible.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Look THROUGH the cloud of guilt that dims your vision, and look PAST
darkness to the holy place where you will see the light. The altar to
your Father is as pure as He Who raised it to Himself. Nothing can keep
from you what Christ would have you see. His will is like His
Father&rsquo;s, and He offers mercy to every Child of God&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and here&rsquo;s the hooker &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; as He would have YOU do.
</div>

For the third time in a row, I&rsquo;m going to go back to this. This is
the good news that&rsquo;s been the only news, the only thing
that&rsquo;s real.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Within you is the holy sign of perfect faith your Father has in you.
</div>

And that holy sign of perfect faith, as I said last week, is the Holy
Spirit, that which is nothing more than your right Mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Father &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; does not value you as you do.
</div>

&hellip; or does not devalue you as you do.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He knows Himself, and knows the truth in YOU. He knows THERE IS NO
DIFFERENCE, for He knows not of differences. Can YOU see guilt where God
KNOWS there is perfect innocence?
</div>

Well, the orphan says, &ldquo;Perfect innocence! [Laughing loudly] Crap!
There&rsquo;s no innocence there. There&rsquo;s nothing but guilt. And
the guilty must pay! And I will see to it that they pay, and pay, and
pay, and pay&hellip;&rdquo; until what? &ldquo;Until I say justice has
been served.&rdquo;

Let me ask something. All of you have felt this compulsive need for
justice, but if something has happened to interrupt your demand for
justice, let&rsquo;s say, a little bit of real life comes into the
picture and the argument has to stop because one of you has to go to
work. So you have to continue the argument at the end of the day after
work. And the day goes by and after work you come back home and you just
can&rsquo;t get the rev up that you had this morning.

This, the continuous loop, got interrupted and the unreality of the
intensity, the insane, non-cohesive, unintelligent nature of the
repetition because it&rsquo;s not an actuality, hasn&rsquo;t the
capacity to reestablish itself. And by the end of the day you have a new
perspective&mdash;ah, what?&mdash;the larger perspective that&rsquo;s
more than just the data contained in the continuous loop. And in the
absence of the insanity, it&rsquo;s possible to reconnect in a new and
fresh way that allows for restoration of harmony to occur. Why? Because
what was disrupting the harmony, never was real.

I entrust you to a wonderful new week, in which you may choose to see
that the continuous loop gets interrupted almost [snaps his fingers]
instantly when it has first become established by an intent you have to
protect yourself by proving another&rsquo;s guilt and scaring him enough
to get him to yield and not present you with your incompetence anymore.

Your competence and your incompetence are both aspects of the orphan
mentality. And you interrupt the continuous loop by walking out of the
orphanage and abandoning the frame of reference. It&rsquo;s that simple.
But you have to do it.

And like any nightmare, if you want to step out of the obsessive,
compulsive intent to practice guilt, you may well have to wrench
yourself awake and do the thing that seems absolutely unjustifiable to
you in your fit of anger, which is to interrupt your fit of anger. And
by interrupting it, dispel it. Not save it for later when they&rsquo;re
not expecting it.

I love you. I love you all. And I want you to have a happier week.

[^1]: T13.3 Release and Restoration

