---
title: Dec 8, 2007
ref: "T13.3 Release and Restoration"
alink: "/acim/text/13/chap1303/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

The experience of being afraid is an unpleasant experience. It&rsquo;s
an experience that everyone does everything they can to avoid.

The experience of a brother, in other words, someone other than yourself
being afraid, is an unpleasant experience. And the tendency is to want
not to have to be confronted by the other&rsquo;s fear and his reactions
and his behavior. But to avoid a brother because he&rsquo;s afraid, or
because his behavior is erratic or charged or aggressive, is not the
answer. To avoid it at all cost only allows for the fear to stay in
place and for the behavior to continue.

Now I want you all to remember something: Quite sometime ago I talked
about the fact that you cannot prove your innocence. You cannot prove
your own innocence. It is foolish to try to do so. It requires another
to be an advocate for you to prove your innocence; to illuminate your
innocence.

Well, you don&rsquo;t like that [chuckling]. &ldquo;I can&rsquo;t prove
my innocence? You say I don&rsquo;t have the capacity? Then you&rsquo;re
saying that I&rsquo;m vulnerable&mdash;just flat out vulnerable.&rdquo;

But if I say to you, &ldquo;It&rsquo;s your function to look at your
brother and remember God.&rdquo; Oh-h…now that pleases
you&mdash;that&rsquo;s a worthy endeavor, one which if you are
successful at it, will speak well of you and your ego is happy.

You see how you can be conflicted within your very own self and like and
dislike the same thing?

I know that I have been monotonous. And the Course is monotonous because
it keeps saying the same thing:

The answer to your problems, your salvation, lies in your being willing
to not be distant from your brother, but to be involved with your
brother or sister and to look into his eyes or her eyes and wish to see
the truth (to care enough to stand with that one, to be present with
that one in an involved way for the purpose of uncovering the truth
that&rsquo;s there, uncovering the truth about them to them) because in
doing that, you reduce their fear.

And in the reduction of their fear, their behavior changes. And as their
fear becomes replaced with peace, because you have been revealing the
truth to them, you find them apparently being redeemed. And in the
process, you know that you played a part in it&mdash;you, being involved
with them persistently, were inseparable from the healing.

To look into your brother&rsquo;s eyes and remember God does not mean
that you get to look into your brother&rsquo;s eyes and you get to have
a remembrance of God regardless of your brother (in other words, you
could use your brother as the catalyst for you remembering God). No way!
In remembering God you find God right where you&rsquo;re
looking&mdash;in your brother. And in finding God in your brother and
knowing that this awareness has come through you, in-filled you, you
learn about yourself. And that is the method, the mode, the manner, the
way of Awakening.

Let&rsquo;s go into the Book because we&rsquo;re going to be reading
about the means of releasing guilt.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
RELEASE from guilt as you would BE released. [^1]
</div>

In other words, there&rsquo;s only one way to be released from guilt.
I&rsquo;ve just described how you can participate in another&rsquo;s
release from guilt. But, in order for you to do that, you have to let
yourself be released from guilt.

How do you do that? You find an Advocate&mdash;an Advocate for you.
&ldquo;Well, where do you go to find such an Advocate? I don&rsquo;t see
them advertised in the classifieds.&rdquo; Well, you go within. And I
will tell you right now that I am your primary Advocate. Your Guides are
your advocates. We stand ready to disclose the truth&mdash;uncover the
truth about you to you and encourage you to dare to believe the truth
about you in as many ways as we have to for as long as we have to, in
order for you to set aside your fear and your bad behavior and the
suffering that is inseparable from it.

God stands as your Advocate. God is Being you at every moment. God is
Being you anew every moment and informing you of what you really Are by
being you at every moment.

So, what it boils down to is that you have to engage in an invitation to
have an advocate. This means inviting someone to help you abandon all
the things you&rsquo;re so sure of. Not so that it&rsquo;s just an
experience of loss, but so that it makes room for you to be in-filled
with the, for lack of better words, glorious truth about you; the
wondrousness of God right where you are.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
RELEASE from guilt as you would BE released.1
</div>

Release your brother from guilt as you would be released by doing for
your brother what your Advocate does for you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is no other way to look within, and see the light of love shining
as steadily and as surely as God Himself has always loved His Son.
</div>

In other words, if you want to look within and see the light of love
shining in you, as steadily and as surely as God Himself has always
loved His Son, you, you&rsquo;re going to have to engage in this
practice of looking at your brother and wishing to see the truth about
him; wishing to see God&rsquo;s truth about him.

Not wishing to see the human explanation: &ldquo;Aw…he&rsquo;s a
bastard, he&rsquo;s a liar, you can&rsquo;t ever trust him, he will
never do this, he&rsquo;s got a history of that; blah…blah…blah.&rdquo;
That&rsquo;s not the truth about him.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is no other way to look within, and see the light of love shining
as steadily and as surely as God Himself has always loved His Son. AND
AS HIS SON &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; YOU &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; LOVES HIM.
</div>

&hellip; YOUR FATHER.

As long as you have believed that you are independent; that there may or
may not be a God, and there probably isn&rsquo;t and if there is, well,
He created you way back and left you free to grow and refine your soul
and be an independent entity not having to acknowledge your Source
because it wasn&rsquo;t pertinent to your independent self-authorized
life. Even though you may have done this, adopted this attitude, you
haven&rsquo;t stopped being your Father&rsquo;s Son or Daughter. God has
not stopped Being you in every moment.

And so, as I&rsquo;ve said, you have always been in a partnership with
your Father; with your Source. Therefore, what is true about you, is
that you have always loved your Father. Even though you temporarily
blinded yourself to the experience by saying, &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t have
a Father, or if I have a Father, He abandoned me way back and left me
free&mdash;and I&rsquo;m so glad He did&mdash;left me free to chart my
own course. He left me free to be my own man; He left me free to be my
own woman!&rdquo;

Now, when you illuminate the truth to your brother by caring enough to
look in his eyes and remember God there in him, you illuminate in him
what is true about him to him whether he&rsquo;s willing to accept it or
not at the moment. And you have fulfilled your function. Your function
was not to look at him and condemn him&mdash;render him guilty and
extract a penalty from him. That&rsquo;s not your function. And when
you&rsquo;re engaging in that function, you&rsquo;re keeping yourself
from what? Looking within and seeing the Light of Love shining as
steadily and as surely as God Himself has always loved His Son; loved
you.

When you&rsquo;re not fulfilling your function you are denying yourself
the experience of seeing the light in you and you are delaying your
brother&rsquo;s capacity, your brother&rsquo;s ability to look within
and see the light there in him as well.

If you are fulfilling your function, no matter how poorly it&rsquo;s
received, you have made it a little bit easier for your brother to look
within and see the light. He&rsquo;s heard about it, he&rsquo;s heard
the truth about him. You have taken time to share with him capacities
that he didn&rsquo;t think he had with a confidence in you that makes
him stop and listen rather than reject it outright and completely. Even
so, he may not embrace it but you&rsquo;ve made a little chink in his
confidence.

Now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is no fear in love, for love is guiltless.
</div>

Remember I said last week that fear and guilt are inseparable,
they&rsquo;re partners. You can&rsquo;t have one without the other.

But &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is no fear in love, for love is guiltless. You who have always
loved your Father can have no fear, for ANY reason, to look within and
see your holiness.
</div>

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You who have always loved your Father can have no fear, for ANY reason,
to look within and see your holiness.
</div>

Remember, we also talked about the fact that you are afraid to look
within because you are absolutely convinced that if you do it genuinely,
you will find out just exactly how awful you are and how truly
undeserving you are of love or of freedom from guilt that you&rsquo;re
experiencing.

And so you neglect to look within with great commitment because you
don&rsquo;t want to have to be convicted within yourself unequivocally
by an awareness of how awful you are.

But &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the one you divinely are &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; who have always loved your Father &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; even if you have temporarily denied Him &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; can have no fear, for ANY reason, to look within and see
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what? Not how horrible you are, but to see &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; your holiness.
</div>

Now, if you&rsquo;re honest with me, although each of you knows that you
are fundamentally good people, you do know that you have done things
that have been bad. You have done things that have left others at a
disadvantage and hurt them. You know you have done things that you, if
you brought them out in the public eye would force you to have to pay a
penalty&mdash;to be convicted and pay for it. You&rsquo;re absolutely
sure of that.

And so I&rsquo;m here, being for you what you need to be for your
brothers and sisters; what you need to be each other. I&rsquo;m here to
tell you that you are not what you believe you are; that you cannot be
held accountable for fear that has caused you to behave toward your
brother or sister in a way that is apparently harmful. You&rsquo;re not
accountable in the sense that you can actually cause your brother harm,
and that you have actually caused your brother harm.

What it amounts to is that you have been afraid, because you don&rsquo;t
understand who you Are and you haven&rsquo;t had an Advocate telling you
the truth about you that allowed you to love yourself or like yourself
more easily. And so your behavior has reflected your confusion and your
feeling of guilt and the presence of fear.

And so, in your fear and your confusion, you have behaved in a way that
has caused your brother, in his fear and his confusion, to become
aggravated and retaliate. And as a result, you have been in a state of
conflict using guilt to try to bring some level of order into the
confusion which has only aggravated the situation further.

Now, I&rsquo;m telling you that if you look, just like the Course is
telling you, that if you will dare to look inside you in the very depth
of your being, you will not find a crass ugly black hole; filthy,
unlovable. But where you think that is, you will find
Light&mdash;effulgent light&mdash;living light&mdash;pulsing light. And
the substance of that light is Love. And it is there in the very center
of you. And it is there and radiates out from you and you deserve to be
experiencing it. You deserve to become free of denying it and blocking
it out of your sight because you have been fooled into believing that
right where It is, is the ugliest of ugliness that you can&rsquo;t dare
to look at.

And so I&rsquo;m being an Advocate for you, saying: &ldquo;Go into that
Place&mdash;go directly into that Place and abide there with a curiosity
to see what I&rsquo;m telling you is there rather than a convicted fear
that what you believe is there, is there.&rdquo; And I stand here to
tell you this over and over again and over again until you are able to
screw up enough courage&mdash;gather together enough courage to do it
and have this wonderful discovery. And since this is the way you are
released from guilt, it is the way your brother is released from guilt.

Now you could say, &ldquo;Well, all of us have Guides. So I&rsquo;m
going to let John&rsquo;s Guide do it for him and I&rsquo;m going to let
Peter&rsquo;s Guide do it for him and I&rsquo;m going to let
Penelope&rsquo;s Guide do it for her.&rdquo;

It doesn&rsquo;t work that way.

The way it works is, that I help you do it for your brother. And if your
brother or your sister is left out of the equation, no Movement of
Awakening will occur. No transformation will occur. No healing will
occur. And you will not have fulfilled your function. Your function is
to be the Presence of Love that transforms illusions by dissolving them;
by evaporating masks that you have held in front of you hiding yourself
from each other; hiding yourselves from each other, so that you might
enjoy the real experience of Brotherhood and of your Sonship and
Daughtership, and of course, there&rsquo;s the Father&rsquo;s Place in
it all.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You cannot BE as you believed you were.
</div>

Such a beautiful short sentence.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You cannot BE as you believed you were.
</div>

That calls for a couple &ldquo;Glory Hallelujahs!&rdquo; [Chuckles]

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You cannot BE as you believed you were.
</div>

If you cannot BE as you believed you were, you never have been as you
believed you were. And What you have really been has escaped your
attention. And the uncovering of what has escaped your attention is My
task. And your uncovering what has escaped your brother&rsquo;s
attention is your task. Because that&rsquo;s how you break the bondage
of isolation and orphan-hood and isolation.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your guilt is without reason because it is not in the Mind of God, where
YOU are.
</div>

Your guilt is without reason. It&rsquo;s not without belief though. You
believe you are guilty and you believe your brother is guilty.

But &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your guilt &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and your brother&rsquo;s guilt &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is without reason because it is not in the Mind of God, Where
YOU &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and your brother &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; are. And this IS reason, which the Holy Spirit would RESTORE to
you. He would remove only illusions. All else He would have you see. And
in Christ&rsquo;s vision He would show you the perfect purity that is
forever within God&rsquo;s Son.
</div>

Now, for some of you this may sound too religious. It&rsquo;s spiritual
words that roll off of ministers&rsquo; and priests&rsquo; lips, but
they really do mean something.

I shared with you a statement from the Course that Paul has turned into
a prayer for himself sometime ago, &ldquo;I wish to see everything
through Your Vision, which is Your gift to me from God.&rdquo; The
prayer is addressed to Me, the Christ. It is a prayer that should be on
everyone&rsquo;s lips, &ldquo;I wish to see through Your Vision, Jesus,
which is Your gift to me from God.&rdquo;

So when it says here &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And this IS reason, which the Holy Spirit would RESTORE to you. He would
remove only illusion. All else He would have you see. And in
Christ&rsquo;s vision &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; see this is not ethereal spirituality &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; Christ&rsquo;s vision &hellip;
</div>

I&rsquo;m not ethereal. The Christ is not ethereal. The Christ is
actual. And I&rsquo;m telling you that when it says &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And in Christ&rsquo;s vision He would show you the perfect purity that
is forever within God&rsquo;s Son.
</div>

I am talking about a Vision that you are supposed to be asking to
experience, because it is My gift to you from God. We&rsquo;re talking
actuality here. I have a gift for you. I have always had this gift for
you. As long as you have been pretending to be an orphan, I&rsquo;ve had
this gift for you. And it&rsquo;s an actual gift. It is real. It is true
Vision. It&rsquo;s My Vision, but not Mine. It&rsquo;s My Vision, which
is My gift to you from Me? No, from God. God&rsquo;s Vision is your
Vision. That&rsquo;s the way you were and are created to be.

I make the gift to you of My Vision, which the Father gave Me to give
you. If you accept it &hellip; [chuckling] it sounds like &ldquo;Mission
Impossible,&rdquo; doesn&rsquo;t it? If you accept this, you will be
able to give that gift to your brother. Not the gift of your personal
vision, but the gift of God&rsquo;s Vision that was given to you because
that&rsquo;s My function; and which you give to your brother because
that&rsquo;s your function.

You get it? You see this?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the Holy Spirit would RESTORE &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; reason &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; to you. He would remove only illusions. All else He would have
you see. And in Christ&rsquo;s vision He would show you the perfect
purity that is forever within God&rsquo;s Son.
</div>

Meaning, your brother and your sister. And by virtue of your seeing it
in your brother and sister you will know it&rsquo;s in you too. This is
so simple but it is so important. But as long as you let yourself get
caught in the loop of justifiable guilt and all the emotions that
accompany it, you will not find yourself able to want to see the truth
in your brother. And you won&rsquo;t. And you will demand justice, until
you have justice &ldquo;up to here.&rdquo;

And you find that when your life is crammed full of justice, you
aren&rsquo;t happy. And it hurts. And you are ill at ease. And you
cannot ignore the fear that is consuming you. And then you will buckle.
You will collapse. You might say, you&rsquo;re having a nervous
breakdown, but it&rsquo;s really a breakthrough.

It&rsquo;s a place where you will finally say, &ldquo;The way I&rsquo;ve
been doing it isn&rsquo;t working. And I no longer have the luxury of
enough ease to fool myself into believing that the way I&rsquo;m living
my life is the way it&rsquo;s supposed to be lived. And therefore, I do
want to find another way. And I will reach out wherever I have to reach
out, to connect with something beyond my poor thought models&mdash;my
concepts.&rdquo;

And of course, the minute you&rsquo;re willing to reach out, you break
the isolation. And you will end up leaning on your brothers and sisters.
And you will end up remembering that there&rsquo;s a God. One way or
another you will be reminded that there is a God that you actually have
a partnership with. And there will be a willingness to let Him in.

But you don&rsquo;t have to do it the hard way. You don&rsquo;t have to
do it the hard way, you can just listen to Me or your Advocate, who is
available to you when you go within; who will point you in the direction
of your salvation&mdash;which most everyone is surprised to find is his
brother or his sister, his fellowman. And he will point you in the
direction of your fellowman, with the purpose of illuminating your
capacity to be an agent for change in your brother&rsquo;s life, because
you are willing to look beyond your poor thought models or concepts
about everything and about your brother. And you&rsquo;re willing to
look for the Light that is in him that you now know about. And you will
have taken the first step of waking up. So you can do it, willingly or
unwillingly.

The point is, that if you will accept that you have an Advocate who is
here to uncover in you the utter good in you, the Godness in
you&mdash;God in you&mdash;you will begin to experience such
transformation that it will pour out and bless your brothers and sisters
as well.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You cannot enter into REAL relationships with any of God&rsquo;s Sons
unless you love them all and EQUALLY.
</div>

Uh-hh &hellip; if you think through your list of acquaintances, you
won&rsquo;t really be able to say that you can do that. Of course not if
you&rsquo;re using your current definitions, the current meanings
you&rsquo;re applying to everything.

But you know what? Back up. When that happens, when you find yourself
being reluctant to extend yourself, back up and ask yourself, &ldquo;Do
I need an Advocate? Do I need someone to remind me that I do not have to
behave out of fear? I don&rsquo;t have to be experiencing fear. I
don&rsquo;t have to live in a constant state of guilt. Do I need an
Advocate?&rdquo;

Some of you may say, &ldquo;No, I&rsquo;m doing quite well, thank you.
I&rsquo;m staying on top of the heap. I&rsquo;m managing the struggle
pretty well.&rdquo; Okay. I won&rsquo;t try to force you. But those of
you who are willing to receive, I will stand with. Those who are willing
to receive from you, be willing to stand with them, because that&rsquo;s
your function and because they deserve it.

And you know what? All of you really do know that at the bottom line,
none of you are what you think you are, that you&rsquo;re better than
what you think you are and you deserve better by Birthright, not because
you&rsquo;ve earned it. And all of you know that in spite of the greatly
distorted behaviors that you and your brothers engage in because of
fear, it is a behavior that doesn&rsquo;t reflect your nature or you.
And your brothers and sisters do not need to continue to behave as
though this is &ldquo;just life.&rdquo;

In other words, it says &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You cannot enter into REAL relationships with any of God&rsquo;s Sons
unless you love them all and EQUALLY.
</div>

What I&rsquo;m saying is, that at the bottom line, you know that they do
deserve to be loved equally and that you can do it. Um-m, but it&rsquo;s
like the alarm clock going off in the morning. You know it&rsquo;s time
to get up, but you hit the snooze button, &ldquo;Five more minutes,
please.&rdquo; You know that you can love your brothers equally,
&ldquo;But please, can I have five more minutes before I have to engage
in all that hard work?&rdquo; [Chuckling] And of course, it looks like
hard work because your definition of them is &ldquo;awful.&rdquo;
[Chuckling] And so you have laid out for you by virtue of your
definition&mdash;your &ldquo;awful&rdquo; definition&mdash;a horrendous
time consuming job. See?

It&rsquo;s like you&rsquo;re saying for your brother, &ldquo;If I go
down into the very depths of you, I&rsquo;m going to find this ugliest
of ugly black hole, and I&rsquo;m going to be convicted with your
awfulness. I&rsquo;m going to be convinced of it.&rdquo; You see?
&ldquo;And that&rsquo;s going to make it very difficult for me.&rdquo;

But the fact is, that if you will let yourself into the very center of
your brother just as if you will let yourself into the very center of
you, what you will find is Light; as I said, pulsing, effulgent, living
Light, the substance of which is Love. That is what you will find.

And whatever effort it takes on your part to get past your reluctance,
it will be worth it; because when you see the Light there, you&rsquo;ll
be remembering God there. And by virtue of the remembrance, which you
know will not have come from your own thinking and your own reasoning,
but will have come from My Vision which you&rsquo;re seeing through,
which is the Father&rsquo;s gift to you; you will find equality being
experienced relative to you and your brothers. And although it may be an
experience with one or a dozen of your brothers, you will know from that
experience that it&rsquo;s true about the millions of brothers and
sisters that you&rsquo;ve never met yet; which is a great promise of joy
and pleasure as you look forward to meeting them.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Love is not special. If you single out PART of the Sonship for your
love, you are imposing guilt on ALL your relationships&hellip;
</div>

See, only the guiltless will be worthy of your love. Who are you going
to withhold your love from? &ldquo;Oh, the guilty!&rdquo; Oh, so you
still value guilt, I see. You think guilt is a valuable tool in your
backpack of paraphernalia for coping with life. And you&rsquo;re still
holding on to it. Okay, well as long as you&rsquo;re still holding onto
guilt as a thing of value, well, you&rsquo;re going to find if you look
a little bit further in your backpack, fear, because guilt and fear are
inseparable.

Wow! As long as you value guilt you will impose it on everyone and you
will keep yourself bound to it and the fear that always accompanies it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Love is not special. If you single out PART of the Sonship for your
love, you are imposing guilt on ALL your relationships, and making
them&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the relationships &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; unreal. You can love ONLY as God loves.
</div>

You see? That&rsquo;s why I invite you to accept God&rsquo;s gift to
you, which is My gift to you, which is My Vision, which is the
Father&rsquo;s perspective.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You can love ONLY as God loves. Seek not to love unlike Him, for there
IS no love apart from His. Until you recognize that this is true you
will have no idea what love is like.
</div>

What is love like? It&rsquo;s like you being totally absent of fear.
It&rsquo;s like you being in, as well as, being the presence of Joy.
It&rsquo;s like you experiencing unchallengeable fulfillment, because
there&rsquo;s nothing unlike fulfillment that you are valuing, and
it&rsquo;s more.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
No-one who condemns a brother can see himself as guiltless in the peace
of God.
</div>

And yet, you, being guiltless in the peace of God, is what the
experience of love is like. It&rsquo;s what the experience of love is
experienced as. It&rsquo;s your Birthright. So if &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
No-one who condemns a brother can see himself as guiltless in the peace
of God.
</div>

Then one who sees himself as guiltless in the peace of God does not
engage in condemning his brother&mdash;finds no value in it. And
therefore, finds total value in, we could say, confronting your brother,
but we&rsquo;ll say it in a gentler way, reflecting back to your brother
the wonderful truth about him that is the truth about him.

And so when he behaves out of fear, you will stand there with your
brother and express the truth to him that helps him to see that fear is
not his Birthright&mdash;that fear is an illusion and that if he sets it
aside, life and the Universe will not collapse around him and he will
still be safe. And if he does not hear it, if he does not want to
believe it, if he cannot bring himself to believe it, you stand with the
perfection of the gift that you have extended and you let it rest with
him. And you do not try to force him. And perhaps you step away for a
while. Perhaps for a while it will be someone else&rsquo;s task to step
in and reflect back to him the truth about him.

I want you to understand that to see the truth about your brother is not
a way of controlling or coercing your brother into a better frame of
mind. It is not a new and higher means of control.

I must constantly invite each of you to embrace the truth by sharing it
with you and then leaving it up to you to reach out for it, to take it
in, to make it yours. And that&rsquo;s your task as well.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
No-one who condemns a brother can see himself as guiltless in the peace
of God.
</div>

And I&rsquo;m adding: Even though he is.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If he IS guiltless and in peace and sees it not&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; which is the state you&rsquo;re all in &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; he IS delusional, and has not looked upon himself. To him I
say,

&ldquo;Behold the Son of God &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; when you look at yourself &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&ldquo;Behold the Son of God and look upon his purity and be still. In
quiet &hellip;&rdquo;
</div>

What does that mean? Without all the chattering of your mind, without
all of the arguing in your mind that your innocence and purity is a
bunch of crap, it&rsquo;s just imagination, because you really
aren&rsquo;t innocent and pure.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&ldquo;In quiet &hellip;&rdquo;
</div>

&hellip; in the absence of all that noise &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&ldquo;&hellip; look upon his holiness&hellip;&rdquo;
</div>

&hellip; look upon your holiness &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&ldquo; &hellip; and offer thanks unto his Father &hellip;&rdquo;
</div>

&hellip; your Father &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&ldquo;&hellip; that no guilt has ever touched him.&rdquo;
</div>

No guilt has ever touched you. I&rsquo;m saying that to you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&ldquo;Behold the Son of God and look upon [your] purity and be still.
In quiet look upon [your] holiness, and offer thanks unto [your] Father
that no guilt has ever touched [you].&rdquo;
</div>

Imaginations have never been able to affect a single thing. Not a single
animal on the desert has drowned from the illusion of water that appears
to be there on a hot day.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
No illusion that you have ever held against him &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your brother &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; has touched his innocence in any way. His shining purity,
wholly untouched by guilt and wholly loving, is bright within you.
</div>

God&rsquo;s &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; shining purity, wholly untouched by guilt and wholly loving, is
bright within you. Let us look upon him &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your brother &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; together and love him.
</div>

See, this is a description of what I do all the time. And it&rsquo;s
instruction for what you need to be doing all the time.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Let us look upon him together &hellip;
</div>

Oh, Uh-oh, uh-oh! Wait a minute, &ldquo;You mean I don&rsquo;t get to
look upon him myself with great beneficence and offer him the great gift
that I&rsquo;m able to give him of unconditional love? What, if I look
upon him together with You, well who&rsquo;s going to get the credit?
This is unprofitable for me.&rdquo;

But, of course, that&rsquo;s the illusion&mdash;the illusion of
orphanhood; the illusion of separateness; the illusion of isolation. And
the discomfort of such an idiotic insane belief is, what we&rsquo;re
leaving behind.

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Let us look upon him &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your brother &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; together and love him. For in our love of him is your
guiltlessness.
</div>

When you and I join together loving your brother, what happens? Your
guiltlessness gets uncovered to you, while his does as well.
That&rsquo;s the only way you can release guilt.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Let us look upon him together and love him. For in our love of him is
your guiltlessness. But look upon yourself, and gladness and
appreciation for what you see will banish guilt forever. I thank you,
Father, for the purity of Your most holy Son,
</div>

Again, please do not hear these as religious, spiritual words.
It&rsquo;s like:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I thank You&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; Dad&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; for the purity of &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; me or the purity of my brother, your other Son.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I thank You&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; Dad&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; for the purity of Your most holy Son&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; of your most unaltered, undefiled Son&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; whom You have created guiltless forever.
</div>

The key words to that sentence are: I thank You &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; I thank You, Father &hellip;
</div>

I thank you Dad &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; for the purity of your most &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; impeccably, unaltered, undefiled offspring, Son, my brother
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; whom You have created guiltless forever.
</div>

I care. I care. I&rsquo;m involved. My heart recognizes You in my
brother and that he is my brother and not just some other odd ball on
the face of this planet that I can relate to or not related to. Even if
I&rsquo;m not relating to him at the moment, he&rsquo;s my brother whom
I have feelings for and thank you…more feelings. Thank you Dad. Thank
you Dad for not withholding from us all of the excellence of You.

Still you talking here, this is your prayer.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Like you my faith and my belief are centered on what I treasure. The
difference is that I love ONLY what God loves with me, and because of
this, I treasure you beyond the value that you set on yourselves, even
unto the worth that God has placed upon you.
</div>

This I want you to say and feel about your brother.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Like you my &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; brother &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; my faith and my belief are centered on what I treasure. The
difference is that I love ONLY what God loves with me, and because of
this, I treasure you &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; my brother &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; beyond the value that you set on &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; yourself&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; even unto the worth that God has placed upon you. I love all
that He created, and all my faith and my belief I offer unto it. My
faith in you is strong as all the love I give my Father.
</div>

Not just nice words. They&rsquo;re My words.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
My faith in you is strong as all the love I give my Father. My trust in
you is without limit, and without the fear that you will hear me not.
</div>

Please abandon the fear you have that when you love your brother he will
hear you not&mdash;he won&rsquo;t hear you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I thank the Father for your loveliness, and for the many gifts that you
will let me offer to the Kingdom in honor of its wholeness which is of
God.
</div>

What is it that is whole here?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I thank the Father for your loveliness, and for the many gifts that you
will let me offer to the Kingdom in honor of its &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your lovelinesses &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; wholeness &hellip;
</div>

When you look at your brother and you recognize God there, it is an
awesome experience. It is a magnificent experience that causes you to
spontaneously express praise for it that gets shared with all of
Creation.

Now I&rsquo;m going to stop here, because if I stop here it means that
we start out next week with the word &ldquo;Praise&rdquo; and with an
expression of gratitude. And that&rsquo;s a wonderful way to start out a
gathering.

You&rsquo;re supposed to be happy. [Addressing each one in audience]
You&rsquo;re supposed to be happy. You&rsquo;re supposed to be happy.
Even you are supposed to be happy. You are supposed to be happy. You are
supposed to be happy. You are supposed to be happy. You are supposed to
be happy. You are supposed to be happy. You are supposed to be happy.
And you are supposed to be happy.

All of Creation is geared toward your having that experience. All of
existence is geared toward your having that experience. Everything that
exists is meant to fulfill that experience.

In order for you to have the experience you&rsquo;re going to have to
abandon the great confidence that you have as to what everything means.
Because what you think everything means at this moment is an environment
in which suffering is normal. And in which the attempt to overcome
suffering is normal, if not the purpose of life. And it&rsquo;s not
true.

The slightest willingness to look at your world with an expectation to
see it reflect back to you that it&rsquo;s your Birthright to be happy,
will cause change to occur; in the way you receive what appears to come
to you from your world and in what you give back.

We&rsquo;re coming up, sometime in the next two or three weeks;
it&rsquo;s only on the next page but we&rsquo;re coming up to a section
called:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*The Guarantee of Heaven*.
</div>

That&rsquo;s your Birthright to experience the Guarantee of Heaven. To
be utterly happy, without your happiness being subject to threat.
That&rsquo;s the Birthright that your brothers have, which it&rsquo;s
your opportunity to share with them&mdash;share with him, so that he can
begin to look in a new way if he wishes.

You are your brother&rsquo;s savior and your brother is your savior.
Embrace your brother with Love whether he returns it or not.

I love you all. And I look forward to being with you next week.

[^1]: T13.3 Release and Restoration

