---
title: Dec 16, 2007
ref: "T13.3 Release and Restoration"
alink: "/acim/text/13/chap1303/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

What if you got up every day and your goal, no matter what activities
you were engaged in, your goal was to be consciously and noticeably
friendly with everyone you came in contact with&mdash;consciously and
noticeably. In other words, the people you come in contact with should
not escape the contact without actually being aware that they were
treated in a friendly manner. Wow, you don&rsquo;t think it would make a
difference? It would make a difference.

You know, all we&rsquo;re talking about, all that we have been talking
about is the use to which you put your minds. You can put your minds to
use in ways that are destructive, debilitating, demoralizing,
depressing. Or you can use your minds in ways that build, that solidify,
that strengthen, that secure. And I&rsquo;m very specifically, tonight,
asking everyone to set themselves the goal of using their mind well
every day so as to actually make a contribution; so as to actually not
just engage in lip service to the truth or to what is meaningful, but to
actually act upon it&mdash;actually embody it. Actually embody it; make
it visible in the world even if you&rsquo;re at home and the only other
one in the house is your pet. Let that pet have the obvious experience
of being loved. Embody in your relationship with that pet that which
makes it happy for the moment it&rsquo;s just experienced.

I&rsquo;m going to ask you: What better thing does any one of you have
to do than express love? Is there anything more constructive, anything
more meaningful that you can express than love? And if expressing love
is going to wipe away all tears, if expressing love is going to generate
joy, if expressing love is going to reduce fear, if expressing love is
going to dissolve guilt, then again, what better thing do you have to do
than express love&mdash;embody it? Nothing.

Let&rsquo;s go into the Book.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Praise be unto you who make the Father One with His Own Son.[^1]
</div>

In other words&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Praise be unto you who &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; is willing to look into his brother&rsquo;s eyes and remember
God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Praise be unto you who &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; is willing to look into his brother&rsquo;s eyes and see beyond
your best definitions of that brother, or the current behavior of that
brother so that you might see what is behind the behavior, or you might
see what is behind the best or poorest picture you are characterizing
your brother with.

Because I promise you something: If you&rsquo;re not willing to look
beyond the presentation that your brother is making; &ldquo;Well, if
I&rsquo;m not willing to look beyond the presentation you&rsquo;re
making,&rdquo; we&rsquo;re never going to have transformation.
We&rsquo;re never going to have the full-blown experience of the
fulfillment of Be-ing.

But as I&rsquo;ve said, this is going to mean conscientiousness on your
part, focus in the use of your attention and the abandonment of
sloppy-slipshod mental habits. And you&rsquo;re going to have to be
willing to persist to get past the presentation&mdash;the current mask
that any of your brothers and sisters may be wearing&mdash;to touch on
that essence that is what they divinely are. That is the threshold of
enlightenment for your brother and for yourself; a threshold over which
you pass into a larger experience&mdash;an infinite experience of pure
awesome meaning.

I&rsquo;ve said it. You are more than your best perception of yourself
and your brothers and sisters are more than your best perception of them
and they are more than their best perceptions of themselves. And as all
of you are caught in your best perceptions, some of which aren&rsquo;t
very good at all, you&rsquo;re trapped into an experience of existence
that it&rsquo;s not your Birthright to be experiencing. You&rsquo;re
trapped when you deserve to be free. You deserve not to be fooled,
confused into believing things that aren&rsquo;t true about you.

And from this tiny mindset that you are involved in, you have decided
that you don&rsquo;t deserve anything greater than this. And it&rsquo;s
a lie and you need to be shaken out of the lie. And you need to be
willing to dare to believe that the rules that say you&rsquo;re not
allowed to get out of this terrible mindset, those rules are there to be
broken. They&rsquo;re there to be violated. They&rsquo;re there not to
be honored. They are a result of ignorance and the result of ignorance
can never be reason or reasonable.

No matter how much you believe your rules, if they are not reasonable,
they are not real and do not deserve to be honored.

Now, to those of you who are willing to look at your brother and look
past your concepts and your brother&rsquo;s concepts of himself &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Praise be unto you who make the Father One with His Own Son.
</div>

Praise be unto you who are willing to see the ultimate. Praise be unto
you who have been determined to get past the presentations and even your
limiting beliefs, to get what is essentially real and whole right there.
Praise be unto you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Alone we are all lowly&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in other words, if you imagine that you&rsquo;re alone, if you
imagine you&rsquo;re an orphan and you have no Father, you have no
Source, in that mindset you are lowly. You are inconsequential.
You&rsquo;re guilty&mdash;you&rsquo;re guilty from the get-go! Why?
Because there&rsquo;s nothing about you that stands in favor of your
integrity.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Alone we are all lowly, but together we shine with brightness so intense
that none of us alone can even think on it.
</div>

More words that could be described as useless, flowery, and impractical.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Alone we are all lowly, but together we shine with brightness so intense
that none of us alone can even think on it. Before the glorious radiance
of the Kingdom guilt melts away, and transformed into kindness, will
never more be what it was.
</div>

Before the glorious radiance of the Kingdom…hm-m… Well, that&rsquo;s
more of those impractical words&hellip;tch…tch… You know what?
Here&rsquo;s the practicality of them: I&rsquo;ve said no matter what
you&rsquo;re looking at, you&rsquo;re confronted with the Kingdom of
Heaven because the Kingdom of Heaven is the only thing that&rsquo;s
happening.

The Kingdom of Heaven either perceived clearly or misperceived is the
only thing that&rsquo;s going on. Your misperception of it doesn&rsquo;t
change it but it changes your experience of it. It flaws or distorts
your experience of it.

And that&rsquo;s why I say, whatever you&rsquo;re looking at, look at it
with curiosity to see the more of what it is than your current
definition allows you to perceive.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Before the glorious radiance of the Kingdom &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Kingdom you&rsquo;re right in the middle of, the Kingdom of
Heaven that is available to you to experience in all of it&rsquo;s
awesome perfection &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Before the glorious radiance of the Kingdom guilt melts away, and
transformed into kindness&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; it doesn&rsquo;t just wither up and vanish, it gets transformed
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; into kindness.
</div>

What is kindness? Kindness is love. But not just love, kindness is love
expressed. Kindness is love embodied.

What did I say? Let yourself get up in the morning with the goal to
embody love in every involvement you have with a
brother&mdash;consciously and noticeably. If nothing else, if you do
that, you will be neglecting to project guilt on your brothers and
sisters or your pets or anything.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Before the glorious radiance of the Kingdom guilt melts away, and
transformed into kindness, will never more be what it was.
</div>

This is the point. This section we&rsquo;re reading is called RELEASE
AND RESTORATION. Restoration is what it&rsquo;s about. A new way of
experiencing Be-ing is what it&rsquo;s about.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Every reaction that you experience will be so purified that it is
fitting as a hymn of praise unto your Father.
</div>

Every reaction to your brother or the flower or the glass, or whatever
part of the Kingdom of Heaven that you&rsquo;re experiencing&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; will be so purified that it is fitting as a hymn of praise unto
your Father.
</div>

Because you will stand in awe of it, in appreciation of it, and you will
recognize that it is Reality and you will see God in it.

And so, your experience of it will stand as acknowledgement of God
instead of acknowledgement of this tired, worn-out physical world
that&rsquo;s full of all these organisms, called human beings, that are
nothing more than conditioned responses and psychological processes that
probably aren&rsquo;t too good.

Aren&rsquo;t you tired of that picture?

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Every reaction that you experience will be so purified &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; if you&rsquo;re willing to express curiosity as to what more of
Reality is here than what you&rsquo;re seeing, or in your brother
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; that it is fitting as a hymn of praise unto your Father. See
only praise of Him &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; God &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; in what He has created&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning your brother, your pet, the world&mdash;the Universe.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
See only praise of Him in what He has created, for He will never cease
His praise of YOU.
</div>

This is my Beloved Son (Daughter), in whom I am well pleased. 2

The Father&rsquo;s Benediction on Me is the Father&rsquo;s Benediction
on you. That&rsquo;s His praise of you: This is my Beloved Son (or
Daughter) in whom I am well pleased. Not because of what you&rsquo;ve
done, but because of what you Are. You&rsquo;re His Son, you&rsquo;re
His Daughter, you&rsquo;re His Expression.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
United in this praise we stand before the gates of Heaven&hellip;
</div>

Where are the gates of Heaven? [chuckling] Right in the mug of water
you&rsquo;re holding; right in the hand that&rsquo;s on the end of your
arm; it&rsquo;s right in the table in front of you; it&rsquo;s right in
the person across from you; it&rsquo;s right in the trees and the world
that you see.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
United in this praise we stand before the gates of Heaven&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in which, wherever you are, you&rsquo;re standing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; before the gates of Heaven where we will surely enter in our
blamelessness. God loves you.
</div>

God loves you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Could I, then, lack faith in you and love Him perfectly?
</div>

If God loves your brother, no matter how big a bastard he is as far
you&rsquo;re concerned, then could you lack faith in your brother and
still love God perfectly? Well, there&rsquo;d be a mismatch there.

&ldquo;I love You Father and I know You love Peter over here, but I sure
as hell don&rsquo;t love Peter!&rdquo; Um-m…something&rsquo;s out of
kilter there, right?

&ldquo;I love You Father and I know You love Peter and you know what? I
don&rsquo;t love Peter but if You do love Peter, I would like to know
why?&rdquo;

There you go. Now you&rsquo;re on the right track. Now you&rsquo;re
willing to look beyond either your brother&rsquo;s presentation of
himself or your poor concept of him.

&ldquo;I would like to know, Father, why You love him? I would like to
know, Father, why You love her? I would like to know why I don&rsquo;t
have to dislike him or be frustrated by her?&rdquo;

And let it be a real question. Let the question become real by actually
engaging in listening, by actually being silent with rapt attention. And
realize that the only reason you won&rsquo;t hear an Answer is if you
have some justification for not hearing the Answer. A justification
like, &ldquo;Well I know her, or I know him, and I know him or her well
enough to know that they are guilty and they don&rsquo;t deserve to be
loved yet. And therefore, Father, I don&rsquo;t yet want to know why you
love him or her.&rdquo;

You won&rsquo;t say that out loud, you&rsquo;ll just harbor this
resentment. And it will get in the way of your hearing the good
news&mdash;the truth that the Father or the Holy Spirit would share with
you that would let you put down your resentment and let your mind be
healed so it gets put to a better use; a use like making the Father One
with His own Son.

Now we haven&rsquo;t talked too much about this and I&rsquo;m not going
to talk about it much tonight, but guilt is almost always the
offspring&mdash;the projection that arises from self-righteousness. You
who know so much better than so-and-so; you who are so much wiser; you
who are just simply better than anyone else, feel the right to make
another to feel guilty for not being like you, for not being someone you
need to be paying attention to.

Self-righteousness is the means of putting another in his or her place.
And the best way to put him or her in his or her place is to prove that
they&rsquo;re guilty of something and then demand that they experience
misery for their guilt. And unfortunately, one of the elements that
comes into play with self-righteousness and the self-righteous placement
of guilt is a certain pleasure that comes from it that becomes addictive
and causes one to repeat, what I&rsquo;m going to call, the offence of
projecting guilt.

It feels so good to make someone else feel miserable. It feels so good
to make them suffer for whatever it is you have deemed that they are
guilty of.

But then we can&rsquo;t say to you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Praise be unto you who make the Father One with His Own Son.
</div>

Because you&rsquo;re stating, &ldquo;I am going to make my judgment one
with your Son, Father.&rdquo; And you break the trust, you break the
bond, you break the alliance that comes from recognizing who your Father
is, acknowledging that you are your Father&rsquo;s Son and therefore are
not a self-determined, independent authority over your life. And an
awareness that your brother, your fellowman, is your brother or
sister&mdash;Sons or Daughters of the same Father you have&mdash;in
which you&rsquo;re all family; in which there is unity; in which you all
fit together and no one stands out superior, you know, or you can get
that hit of self-righteousness. No it&rsquo;s not there.

I ask again, what better thing do you have to do than express love? You
literally have none. Because in the expression of love that is the
acknowledgment of your brother as your brother, and the fact that you
and your brother are Sons of a common Father, why, that&rsquo;s how you
abandon orphanhood. That&rsquo;s how you free yourself from the improper
or the poor use of your mind. That&rsquo;s how you let go of memory (the
past) and abandon the use of imagination (the future) which allows you
to be in the little gap&mdash;in the moment you&rsquo;re in which is
free of illusion&mdash;and where the revelation of the Father&rsquo;s
Mind, the Father&rsquo;s awareness of All That Is becomes yours, becomes
revealed to you, infills you.

Now this is not an empty promise. This is something that will happen
each and every time you allow for it. And I say each and every time
because you do just stick your toe in the water for a moment at a time
and it isn&rsquo;t enough to capture your attention so that you never
get out of it again.

Most of you have had the experience spontaneously without a conscious
choice of any sort having been made. And so you say, &ldquo;Wow! I just
had a God experience.&rdquo; And it&rsquo;s possible for that experience
to stand apart from everything else as one of many experiences that life
can provide you with. When actually it was an experience of
connectedness with the ground of your Be-ing, the fundamental of your
existence of your conscious experience. It was a perfectly real
experience without any illusion attached to it.

You&rsquo;ve got to watch the use to which you&rsquo;ve put your mind.
And if you find yourself at some point in the day or even the moment
that you wake up, engaging in critical thoughts, notice it! Don&rsquo;t
just say, &ldquo;Well, you know…&rdquo; Don&rsquo;t just go along with
the flow of thoughts. Notice it! So you can say, &ldquo;Uh-oh!, critical
thinking is occurring. It&rsquo;s not my choice. And so, I&rsquo;m going
to be alert to it so that every time it occurs I can bite my tongue or
stop the flow of thoughts before embodying them&mdash;before giving
voice to the criticism. And I just claim it. It is not mine. It is not
my choice and that&rsquo;s why I can squelch it every time it pops
up.&rdquo;

Be alert! If you get up or at any point during the day a wave of sadness
comes over you and you find yourself feeling depressed and nothing has
happened&mdash;no event has happened! Notice it! &ldquo;Oh, wow,
I&rsquo;m being invited to be sad.&rdquo; Now don&rsquo;t ask why
you&rsquo;re being invited, that&rsquo;s taking the bait. Notice,
&ldquo;I&rsquo;m being invited to be sad. I am feeling a real emotional
invitation to be depressed. And I reject the invitation!&rdquo; You see?

Don&rsquo;t just flow willy-nilly with whatever is happening in your
mind. Notice when you are being subtly or not so subtly invited to
engage in poor uses of your mind, so that you can immediately and
consciously and, I&rsquo;m going to say, noticeably behave in a way that
reflects a good use of your mind. A use that in one way or another
embodies love, embodies the desire to see beyond whatever the harsh and
unkind limits are that these thoughts that are presenting themselves are
inviting you to claim as yours.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Forgetfulness and sleep and even death become the ego&rsquo;s best
advice for how to deal with the perceived and harsh intrusion of guilt
on peace.
</div>

Oh, you suddenly feel guilty. You don&rsquo;t have to answer me, but how
often have you had the experience or how frequently do you find you have
the experience of suddenly, out of the blue, for no reason at all during
the day, feeling guilty. Feeling like, &ldquo;Uh-oh, I&rsquo;m going to
be caught.&rdquo; And you&rsquo;re not doing anything that you could be
caught for. But you just have this niggling, uneasy feeling in you of
guilt and that you better be careful, because you&rsquo;re likely to get
caught.

The ego whispers in your mind. And it makes suggestions and invitations
to you that seem to justify the poor use of your mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Forgetfulness and sleep and even death become the egos best advice for
how to deal with the perceived and harsh intrusion of guilt on peace.
Yet no-one sees himself in conflict, and ravaged by a cruel war, unless
he believes that BOTH opponents in the war are real.
</div>

Now listen:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Believing this he must escape, for such a war would surely end his peace
of mind, and so destroy him. Yet &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and here&rsquo;s the key &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; if he could but realize the war is between forces that are real
and UNREAL powers, he could look upon himself and SEE his freedom.
</div>

In other words, if the war is going on between something that is real
and something that is unreal, it&rsquo;s not a war is it? There are no
&ldquo;powers.&rdquo; There is no unreal power that can war with a real
power.

You need to be alert so that you don&rsquo;t falsely characterize an
inner experience as a war when it&rsquo;s not a war. When you are trying
to use reason to fight the unreasonable&mdash;well, it&rsquo;s like the
sound of one hand clapping&mdash;when you try to use reason to battle
the unreasonable, nothing is happening.

But you see, if someone is bound by his ignorance&mdash;if someone is
ignorant&mdash;reason isn&rsquo;t present, strength is not present,
integrity is not present or able to function because confusion reins,
ignorance reins. And that ignorance reining feels like an actual
something. &ldquo;That&rsquo;s me! You know, I can&rsquo;t deal with
your confusion. I can&rsquo;t deal with your ignorance.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Well, then you better leave, because that&rsquo;s me!&rdquo;
[chuckling] No, discombobulation isn&rsquo;t you or anyone else,
it&rsquo;s just disconnectedness. It isn&rsquo;t connectedness. And
it&rsquo;s not you and you&rsquo;re not it.

When a battle is going on between individuals and guilt is being flung
back and forth, it&rsquo;s being flung at the ignorance that is going
on&mdash;that in the individual which is unaware of who or what he
really is. And so he thinks he must respond and he thinks he&rsquo;s
really being threatened, or vice versa, she does; and so this battle is
engaged in with great enthusiasm&mdash;great determination. And yet, if
it could be seen that what was being fought against was nothing, that
the ignorance that&rsquo;s being despised and hated and upon which guilt
is being heaped, if it could be seen that that was nothing, there would
be no basis for continuing the battle. And therefore, that is the
answer. That is the solution.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; no-one sees himself in conflict, and ravaged by a cruel war,
unless he believes that BOTH opponents in the war are real. Believing
this he must escape, for such a war would surely end his peace of mind,
and so destroy him.
</div>

When two people fight to the bitter end hurling guilt back and forth,
it&rsquo;s only occurring with the vehemence that it&rsquo;s occurring
because it is believed that there is an actual threat and that there
will be actual injury, actual cost. And if you don&rsquo;t know what
your Birthright is, if you don&rsquo;t know who your Father is, and if
you don&rsquo;t know that it&rsquo;s your Father&rsquo;s good pleasure
to give you All That Is, you will labor under the idea that what is
happening can cost you and you will fight ever more strongly.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet if he could but realize the war is between forces that are real and
UNREAL powers, he could look upon himself and SEE his freedom.
</div>

If you can break the mesmeric attachment to the fear and the anxiety
that comes from guilt long enough so that you can remember that there is
a God and that all that God is, is embodied in you as You, and that
therefore, nothing can be taken away from you, you would recognize the
whole mindset and the whole activity as nonsensical and you would simply
stop. You would not protect yourself against a non-threat. It would be
as clear as a bell to you. And that&rsquo;s why I&rsquo;m reminding you,
so that you might take a second look.

Well, there must be another way to look at this. Um-m…oh, I think we
call this the two-step, where you, before you act step back and say,
&ldquo;Father, what&rsquo;s the truth here?&rdquo; so that you can
remember to look past the presentation your brother is making or the
concept you have about your brother, to see what is truly there so that
you might put down your weapons of defense, since there are no elements
present that can actually war.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
No-one finds himself ravaged and torn in endless battles which he
HIMSELF perceives as wholly without meaning.
</div>

When you can look at something and see the nonsensicalness of it, you
don&rsquo;t validate it anymore. And you don&rsquo;t react to it
anymore. You don&rsquo;t even respond to it anymore.

I&rsquo;ll give you an example, it&rsquo;s not the best, but:

You move to a new house. And there&rsquo;s a store a couple of blocks
away. And you decided that you&rsquo;re going to walk to the store
instead of drive to the store. And you walk along and as you&rsquo;re
walking along, all of a sudden out from the left of you, in the yard,
this Bulldog tears forward growling and barking ferociously. And you
leap back and start to run. And when the dog gets to the sidewalk, the
chain on his neck yanks him and stops him right at the sidewalk. You let
out a sigh of relief.

The next time you walk to the grocery store and you come to the yard,
maybe once again you&rsquo;re not thinking about the dog, but here comes
the dog with all ferociousness and you smile, [chuckling] you just walk
on. You know he&rsquo;s not going to be able to touch you because
he&rsquo;s got the chain on. So what had seemed fearsome before is no
longer fearsome. And what you felt was a cause of fear is seen to be
nonsense. It doesn&rsquo;t apply. You see?

Now, I bring this up from time to time: You&rsquo;re here to be healers.
You&rsquo;re here, for lack of better words, to make a contribution.
You&rsquo;re here (and your ego likes this) to make a difference. The
only thing is, that the difference you&rsquo;re here to make is to be
that which shows the ego to be nonsense; so that when it speaks up and
whispers in your ear that you are guilty or that you should be afraid or
that you are very sad or that you&rsquo;re going to be caught, you
[chuckle] think nothing of it, just another bit of
nonsense&mdash;meaningless nonsense.

You know, there are people who grow up, they finish High School and they
decide to go to college and they want to become a doctor or they want to
become a nurse; or they want to become a psychologist; or they want to
become a psychiatrist; or they want to become a social worker. Why?
Because they want to help people, they want to make a difference in the
most fundamental of ways. Not with the running of businesses, but with
the better use of the mind that people put there minds to. Now, you
think about them and you think that&rsquo;s wonderful.

You can make a decision of the same sort for yourself and accept the
position, if you will… no, accept the activity of being an agent for
change. Not just to improve the human condition but to uncover the
Divine condition.

Once again, this means actions, this means embodying a goal, to
conscientiously and obviously express Love.

If you&rsquo;re listening to me, you have some spiritual values.
I&rsquo;m saying embody them&mdash;embody them more fully than you have
thought to embody them. Why? Very simply; because until you are willing
to look into your brother&rsquo;s eyes and see the very best, see the
perfect, see and remember God there, see and experience the ultimate of
ultimates there, when you do that, you are consciously blessing your
brother. And the you that is doing the blessing, the you that the
blessing is coming through is blessed. And your brother and you are both
healed. Your brother and you may both wake up as a result of that single
encounter.

Again, none of you has anything better to be doing. And you can do it
while you&rsquo;re teaching yoga. You can do it while you&rsquo;re
building a house. You can do it while you&rsquo;re talking to the
grocery clerk. The key is: start doing it; because without the
embodiment, there is no transformation.

Now, here&rsquo;s the simple truth, the simple good news:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God would not have His Son embattled, and so His Son&rsquo;s imagined
&ldquo;enemy,&rdquo; which he made&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Son made &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is TOTALLY unreal.
</div>

In other words, what God did not Create does not exist. What God
isn&rsquo;t Be-ing, isn&rsquo;t happening.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God would not have His Son embattled, and so His Son&rsquo;s imagined
&ldquo;enemy,&rdquo; which he made, is TOTALLY unreal. You are but
trying to escape a bitter war from which you HAVE escaped.
</div>

Another way of saying that would be: from a battle which you&rsquo;ve
never been in, because God never created the environment or the
circumstance or the events that could be identified that way.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You are but trying to escape a bitter war from which you HAVE escaped.
The war is gone.
</div>

And I would say, the war was never there, except in the imagination or
except in the mind committed to an insane belief temporarily.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The war is gone. For you have heard the hymn of freedom rising unto
Heaven.
</div>

You have heard it, I have been singing it for you. And some of you have
been singing it to each other.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you have heard the hymn of freedom rising unto Heaven. Gladness
and joy belong to God for your release because you made it not.
</div>

What did you not make? Your release! How could you release yourself from
a jail cell whose door was never locked?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Gladness and joy belong to God for your release because you made it not.
Yet as you made not freedom, so you made not a war that could ENDANGER
freedom.
</div>

&ldquo;Oh, but she did! [Chuckling] Boy, she sure endangered my freedom!
Oh no, he did! He is endangering my freedom, he&rsquo;s endangering my
freedom right now! And I&rsquo;m retaliating! And I…I will dig out the
dirtiest thing I can to plague him with and make him feel guilty for,
and threaten him with, so that what? So that he can come back with a
better one yet; you know, good, better, best, bested? As long as
you&rsquo;ve got those determinations, those evaluations, it&rsquo;s
going to get you in the end. &ldquo;Good, uh-m that sounds good. Better,
um that sounds good too. Best, um yes! Bested, ooh, that hurt!&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet as you made not freedom, so you made not a war that could ENDANGER
freedom. Nothing destructive ever was or will be. The war, the guilt,
the past are gone as one into the unreality from which they came.
</div>

&hellip; dissolved back into their native nothingness.

If you want to be free of guilt and the effects of guilt, you&rsquo;ve
got to take the radical position, that it&rsquo;s not real and that
everything that guilt would cost you is nothing more than a great
confusion believed and committed to. And that therefore, no matter what
the threats are that are associated with guilt, that the moment you
dishonor them because… because why? Because the war is between forces
that are real and unreal powers and therefore there really isn&rsquo;t a
war, when you dare to embrace that and acknowledge that, you&rsquo;ll
move into another arena. You&rsquo;ll move into the conscious experience
where that isn&rsquo;t happening. The nonsense will be obviously
nonsensical. The Bulldog on the chain won&rsquo;t frighten you anymore
because there was never anything frightening about a Bulldog on a chain.
You see?

So you have to be willing to take this radical position. And no matter
what your brother is doing or saying, no matter what his behavior is or
your sister, you can, before you react, step back and say,
&ldquo;Father, what is the truth here? What is there about this
individual that makes You love him or her? I want to experience Your
perspective.&rdquo;

And look at what you&rsquo;ve done. You&rsquo;ve abandoned the orphan
position. You&rsquo;ve stepped out of the orphanage. You&rsquo;ve asked
your Father for help with your brother. And you have brought the family
unit back into its unity. That is not only beautiful, it is not only
significant, it is the way you wake up, which necessarily means,
it&rsquo;s the way you experience the miraculous.

[addresses each one] I love you, I love you, I love you, I love you, I
love you, I love you, I love you, I love you, I love you, I love you and
I love you. And because we haven&rsquo;t stopped being what we divinely
are: I thank you for your love, I thank you for your love, I thank you
for your love, I thank you for your love, I thank you for your love, I
thank you for your love, I thank you for your love, I thank you for your
love, I thank you for your love, I thank you for your love, I thank you
for your love because none of us for even the briefest of moments have
stopped being the Love that the Father is embodying of Himself right
where we are. And I appreciate and bask in and invite all of you to
appreciate and bask in the Movement of Love that we are all embracing
each other with.

[^1]: T13.3 Release and Restoration

