---
title: Jan 2, 2005
ref: "T8.10 The Answer to Prayer"
alink: "/acim/text/08/chap0810/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

Anyone run into any gristle this last two weeks? Well, remember I said
that it isn&rsquo;t that what you&rsquo;ve been given is really tough to
chew. It&rsquo;s just that it&rsquo;s not the bite you want to chew yet.
And that&rsquo;s a key point. You see?

Are you willing to have healing? Or do you still have some investment in
quote &ldquo;getting even&rdquo;? Are you ready to have healing, or is
there some unfinished business for you to take care of? As you know, in
the Bible it says that I said to a number of my disciples at the
beginning, &ldquo;Follow thou me.&rdquo; And they said, in so many
words, &ldquo;Well, I&rsquo;ll be happy to, but if someone in the family
has died and that we need to take care of that, and then I will join
you,&rdquo; or, &ldquo;I have such-and-such to take care of, and then I
will join you.&rdquo; And I said, &ldquo;Let the dead bury their dead.
Follow thou me.&rdquo; You see, it illustrated the need to be willing to
put your attention where it is needed, to put your attention where
healing will be facilitated, to put your attention where waking up can
happen. And it cannot happen with unfinished business being attended to.
That&rsquo;s part of your dream. It can&rsquo;t happen when you&rsquo;re
still trying to fix up part of your illusion. That was the point.

You all have experienced now the fact that it&rsquo;s relatively easy,
not totally easy, but relatively easy to devote your attention to an
improved concept of yourselves. You&rsquo;re willing to give your
attention to the idea that there is a Place of Excellence in you, a
place that is utterly Divine, that is God Presence-ing Himself right
there where you are. And there is a willingness to yield into It, to
lean into It, and to begin to depend on the Clarity that is forthcoming
when you do lean into It. As I said, this still isn&rsquo;t easy for
you, but you&rsquo;re engaged in it. And in engaging in it, you gain
experience. Ease develops. You become more comfortable in this
apparently unknown new territory for you, even though I&rsquo;ve pointed
out that you&rsquo;re coming back into your Original Territory, your
Natural Being.

Now, we have found out that that&rsquo;s not all there is to it, because
you also need to develop the ability to lean into the Place of
Excellence in your Brothers and Sisters; that you need to be willing to
see that there is a Place of Excellence in them, and give your attention
to that, rather than whatever ignorances they are expressing. What
happens when you do that? Oh, all kinds of justifications come up,
don&rsquo;t they, as to why you shouldn&rsquo;t, or can&rsquo;t, yet
because you have some things to attend to with them. You have some
issues of justice to attend to first, right? Or &ldquo;Well, why should
I give that much to them when no one else is giving half that to
me?&rdquo; Justice, justice, justice is what it boils down to. And you
want to exact &hellip; you want to exact the evidence of justice from
them, or from the situation. You want to get satisfaction first.

Thank God. Thank God that God doesn&rsquo;t respond to you that way.
Thank God that I don&rsquo;t. Thank God that the Holy Spirit
doesn&rsquo;t. Thank God that your Guides don&rsquo;t, because then you
would be truly lost.

What&rsquo;s another? &ldquo;Oh, well, you know, I&rsquo;m coming along
fairly well giving myself the benefit of the doubt. I&rsquo;m coming
along fairly well in honoring myself in a new way by leaning into the
Holy Spirit in me. And it&rsquo;s not easy. And now you want me, at the
same time that I&rsquo;m having some difficulty in experiencing myself
in a new way, to extend this to another who I&rsquo;m even less inclined
to extend anything to? You&rsquo;re &hellip; [small laugh] you&rsquo;re
pressuring me! You&rsquo;re moving me too fast!&rdquo; Hell, we&rsquo;ve
been talking for two and a half years and we&rsquo;ve only gotten 203
pages. [slight audience amusement] You&rsquo;re being rushed? See,
it&rsquo;s the gristle. It&rsquo;s the little bit of a bite that you
don&rsquo;t want to chew yet. But the bite is filet mignon
perfectamente. That&rsquo;s what the bite is.

This section is called, &ldquo;The Answer to Prayer.&rdquo; The answer
to prayer is a miracle, a sudden shift of perception, healing. Do you
want healing? Then you must give healing.

And although you might be inclined to more easily be open to being the
agent for change for your pet who is ill, or for a favorite plant in
your house, I am encouraging you to go to the place where you&rsquo;re
least inclined to give healing, and that is to your Brother and Sister,
because you use your Brother and Sister as the justification for not
having healing. You don&rsquo;t use your favorite plant as a
justification for not having healing. You see what I mean? The only
place you have difficulty is where? In relationships!

You can turn to the Holy Spirit for healing. And you can turn to the
Father. You can turn to me. And in our relationship, you can experience
healing. But I&rsquo;m going to tell you, the healing won&rsquo;t be
permanent as long as you&rsquo;re justifying not extending it to someone
else. Because that&rsquo;s the way you make it your own. That&rsquo;s
the way you embody it.

Let&rsquo;s go to the book. In the previous paragraph, we were speaking
about believing in your Brothers. Now, continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To disbelieve &hellip; [^1]
</div>

&hellip; in your Brothers or Sisters &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is to side against, or to ATTACK. To believe is to accept, and
to SIDE WITH. To believe is not to be credulous, but to accept and
APPRECIATE.
</div>

In other words, to believe is not to be stupid, is not to believe
everything a Brother or a Sister says. It&rsquo;s not to be ridiculous.
It&rsquo;s something else entirely.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To believe is not to be credulous, but to accept and APPRECIATE.
</div>

[whispered] Accept and appreciate.

If you had a situation like you&rsquo;ve had this past week where many,
many died [in a tsunami] and if, as they were this past week, their
bodies were strewn around, you would walk through them listening for a
sound. Here&rsquo;s a live one. This one&rsquo;s breathing. You would
look for the signs of life and you would respond there.

Now:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To believe is to accept, and to SIDE WITH.
</div>

What are we talking about accepting? We&rsquo;re not talking about
accepting bad behavior. We&rsquo;re not talking about accepting
expressions of self that are based upon an ignorance of What That One
Truly Is, which cause his expressions to be unkind or unlovely.
We&rsquo;re talking about recognizing signs of life where that one is.
And awkward and inarticulate expressions coming out of one&rsquo;s
mouth, hateful expressions spewing forth are, if nothing else, a sign of
life, right? So here is a live one. You get it? And you accept this live
one as being, as existing. And you side with that one&rsquo;s existence,
that one&rsquo;s Presence, no matter how he, or she, is demonstrating
that Presence with bad behavior or good behavior, kindness or
unkindness.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To believe is to accept, and to SIDE WITH.
</div>

Join with. Identify with. You exist. They exist. You have something in
common. You can join with them.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To believe is not to be credulous, but to accept and APPRECIATE.
</div>

Accept and appreciate what? The signs of life. If they are alive, if
they exist, if there is something you can identify with in those very
basic terms, then you can, you have the means to be aware of the fact
that Whatever Is True about you that has been revealed to you, and which
you have been able to incorporate and identify with yourself, is True
about them. If there is a Place of Excellence in you, because
there&rsquo;s a sign of life there, life is there and the Place of
Excellence is there. And if that Place of Excellence in them is the Holy
Spirit, just as it is in you, then no matter how they are expressing
themselves presently, you have a line of communication that can be
activated. And so you choose to activate it.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What you do not believe you do not appreciate, and you CANNOT be
grateful for what you do not value.
</div>

It&rsquo;s very practical. If you look at a Brother and you cannot
appreciate him, you cannot value him. If you do not value him, you will
find him unworthy of extending the acknowledgement of the Truth. You
will find him unworthy to hang in there with, to be present with, to be
involved with.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What you do not believe you do not appreciate, and you CANNOT be
grateful for what you do not value. There is a price you will pay for
judgment because judgment IS the setting of a price. And &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; here&rsquo;s the hooker &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; as you set it you WILL pay it.
</div>

Judgment is the setting of a price.

You just never express a judgment for no reason. You express judgment,
as we discussed last week, for the purpose of confusing and overwhelming
your Brother; to put him off balance. You make judgments so as to cause
that one to lose any confidence he may have in himself so that he is
unable to authoritatively stand up for himself, and you are in a better
position to influence him, or to get from him what you want. Maybe you
just want the Brother to go away and leave you alone. You see? It
isn&rsquo;t always that you will want his agreement. But you will want
something, and so you bring judgment into play.

But there&rsquo;s a more fundamental reason for expressing judgment, and
that is that the circumstances with your Brother, or Sister, have
brought you to the end of your rope. Up until now, you&rsquo;ve been
able to cope pretty well. You&rsquo;ve been able to be positively
oriented with that one. You have given, and given, and given, and given.
And something has happened that was quote &ldquo;the straw that broke
the camel&rsquo;s back&rdquo; unquote. And now you&rsquo;ve had it! Now
you don&rsquo;t know what to do. Whatever the straw was that broke the
camel&rsquo;s back has put you at a loss. And you feel incapable of
continuing to make the gift. You feel incapable of making the gift
because you find yourself at a loss. You don&rsquo;t know what to do.
And so you say, &ldquo;This one is a stubborn one. Nothing that I do is
heard. Nothing that I say is heard. And nothing that I do is valued. I
persist, and I persist, and I persist, and they come up with one more
thing.&rdquo;

But, you see, now you&rsquo;re talking about them. You&rsquo;ve shifted,
and it&rsquo;s them out there. And you&rsquo;re characterizing them. And
all of this characterization is doing only one thing&mdash;it&rsquo;s
covering up the fact that you don&rsquo;t want to acknowledge that you
don&rsquo;t know what to do now.

So you&rsquo;re really at a wonderful point. &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t know
what to do, Father.&rdquo;

Ah, now we&rsquo;re doing something different from them out there and
their stubbornness. And maybe they&rsquo;re just not capable of
learning. Or they love their problems too much. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m never
gonna be able to get through to them. It&rsquo;s all them.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;m at a loss here. I don&rsquo;t know what to do.
I&rsquo;ve carried it as far as I can. And you know what? I thought I
was listening to You. And I thought I was sharing with them what you
were leading me to say. And I thought I was being the Presence of Love.
And I thought I was doing it well. But it hasn&rsquo;t worked.
It&rsquo;s not working. And I&rsquo;m exhausted. I give up on them. I
can&rsquo;t do it!&rdquo;

If you&rsquo;re exhausted, it means you&rsquo;ve been doing too much all
by yourself, even though you&rsquo;ve included God along the way.
Because it&rsquo;s at exactly this point where what you&rsquo;re
presented with seems to go beyond your capacity; that you stand at the
edge of the pregnant void; this wonderful place where you are actually
primed for insight, or even revelation, if you will abandon the last
vestiges of control that you were trying to bring into play, of course,
beneficently because you have an object of your affection. You&rsquo;re
at a point where you truly need inspiration, where you truly need to
yield even further into that Place of Excellence in you&mdash;the Holy
Spirit. Why? Because you deserve to be healed of the experience of
emptiness. You need to be healed of seeming to be overwhelmed yourself.
You need to be healed of an apparent incapacity to be the Presence of
Love further. You see?

So here&rsquo;s where, instead of backing out and blaming them and
characterizing them in the most ferocious terms, this is where you need
to take a deep breath, stop the judgment, and let go further into God.
Let go further into the Place of Excellence in you in which Love is
inexhaustible, because of the inexhaustible nature of its Source, which
is the Father.

You see, when you abandon being the Presence of Love because you feel
exhausted and at a loss, you lash out and you point the finger. And
it&rsquo;s their fault, but you won&rsquo;t tell them what the fault
was. You won&rsquo;t tell them that they pushed you to the edge of your
known capacity for being the Presence of Love, and that you&rsquo;re
scared to yield further.

And so you set a price by engaging in judgment. And you&rsquo;re going
to exact from them something that will make up for all that you&rsquo;ve
done. [small laugh] And that will make up for the fact that they
haven&rsquo;t received it all, and the fact that they&rsquo;ve pushed
you to a place where you are experiencing the discomfort of not knowing
what to do next, even though you have been pushed to the threshold of
inspiration, even though you have been pushed to the threshold of a
greatly expanded experience of your Function.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If paying &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; paying the setting of a price.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If paying is equated with GETTING, you will set the price low but demand
a high RETURN.
</div>

You want a lot for a little. The ego wants a lot for a little.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You will have forgotten, however, that your return is in PROPORTION to
your judgment of worth.
</div>

If your Brother, in your opinion, is not worth your attention, you will
behave toward that Brother as though he or she isn&rsquo;t. And the
return you will get will be what you&rsquo;ve given.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If paying is associated with GIVING, it cannot BE perceived as loss, and
the RECIPROCAL relationship of giving and receiving will be recognized.
</div>

As well, the experience of your relationship with your Brother will be
recognized, will be experienced. And the opportunity for transformation
will continue to be present.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The price will then be set high &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you will want to pay a lot because you&rsquo;re going to get a
lot. When you pay a lot, you give a lot. What you give, you keep. What
you give, you have.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The price will then be set high because of the value of the return.
{: .omit}

The price for GETTING is to lose sight of value, making it inevitable
that you will NOT value what you receive. Valuing it little, you will
not appreciate it and will not WANT it.
</div>

How many people do you know who are accumulators? They get, get, get.
They have lots and lots of things. But are they happy? And do they even
use the things they&rsquo;ve gotten? Do they actually enjoy having them?
No, because having them wasn&rsquo;t what was important to them. The
getting of them was what was important.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Never forget, then, that YOU have set the value on what you receive, and
have priced it by what you give.
{: .omit}

To believe that it is possible to get much for little is to believe that
you can bargain with God. God&rsquo;s laws &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; I&rsquo;m going to add: on the other hand &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; are ALWAYS fair and perfectly consistent. BY giving you
receive.
</div>

See how consistent that is?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
But to receive is to ACCEPT, not to get. It is impossible not to
HAVE&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; It&rsquo;s the Father&rsquo;s good pleasure to give you the
Kingdom&mdash;everything &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; but it IS possible not to KNOW you have.
</div>

And at the moment, all of you don&rsquo;t realize all that you have
because you&rsquo;ve decided to call Creation that has been given to you
the world and universe; a material thing that has nothing to do with
God, so you see very little of God in it. You have determined that
it&rsquo;s not God. And in fact, some who read the Course interpret it
to mean that the world is an illusion, it is not of God, when the fact
is that if there&rsquo;s anything in front of your face, anything that
you&rsquo;re experiencing, it is God experienced clearly, or through a
glass darkly. There&rsquo;s no other choice. But until you begin to
value it as the Manifestation of God, you will not find God there. And
you will not, thereby, have your vision of it corrected so that you are
no longer seeing it through a glass darkly.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The recognition of having is the willingness for GIVING, and ONLY by
this willingness can you recognize what you have.
</div>

Now I know that you have not had a great number of experiences of the
world being the Kingdom of Heaven yet, but you have had some. You have
had some glimpses. And I tell you that your one task is to persist in
being willing to look at your world with the desire to see more of God
there than you&rsquo;re presently seeing, and to be, as I said,
persistent in this.

Now, the same applies to your Brothers and Sisters. It doesn&rsquo;t
matter how awful they are appearing to you, whether they are appearing
that way because of their own faulty decisions within themselves, or
whether they&rsquo;re appearing that way because you are insisting on
seeing them as something other than the Excellence of God expressed
because, as I said last week, you know them too damn well.

We&rsquo;re talking here about breaking the habit of how you&rsquo;re
perceiving everything. And the only way you can break the habit of how
you&rsquo;re seeing everything is to be willing to look in a new way
from a new standpoint; a standpoint that has its basis in Truth, with a
capital &ldquo;T&rdquo;.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The recognition of having is the willingness for GIVING&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; It&rsquo;s the willingness for persistently giving your
attention to your Brother in a new way&mdash;giving your attention in a
new way, regardless of all of the justifications you have for looking at
them in the old way.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and ONLY by this willingness can you recognize what you have.
What you give is therefore the value you put on what you have, being the
exact measure of the value you put upon it. And this, in turn, is the
measure of how much you WANT it.
</div>

The big question is, &ldquo;Is there any point at which you can justify
giving up on your Brother?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Well, yeah. [small laugh] If he behaves badly enough.&rdquo;

Well, what you mean when you say that is if he behaves badly enough to
put you at a loss where you don&rsquo;t know to do. You see? You just
can&rsquo;t stand to be at the threshold of the pregnant void. You
can&rsquo;t stand to be at the threshold of the unknown where a miracle
can occur, where inspiration and insight will happen. Why? Because it
takes too much effort on your part? It requires giving more attention
than you&rsquo;re willing to give, more attention than you feel is
justified? Well, how much do you want to wake up? How much do you want
to be Sane?&mdash;that&rsquo;s another way of putting it. How much do
you want to be Sane?

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You can ASK of the Holy Spirit, then, only by giving TO Him, and you can
GIVE to Him only where you SEE Him.
</div>

&ldquo;Well, I&rsquo;m not really ready to see Him in my brother, or my
mother, or my wayward son, or daughter. I&rsquo;m not really willing to
see the Holy Spirit in the president!&rdquo;

Mmm. Well, okay. But understand that you&rsquo;re the one unwilling. And
therefore, you&rsquo;re the one keeping yourself in the dark. It&rsquo;s
your word that you&rsquo;re laying down. What? Against your Brother? No,
against yourself. &ldquo;I am, under the circumstances, unwilling to be
more fully conscious.&rdquo; That&rsquo;s how much you want to wake up.
Thank God for those who push you to the edge. You would say,
&ldquo;Thank God,&rdquo; to them if the edge was a place you valued.

And I will tell you something. As you stand at the edge under dynamic
circumstances or peaceful circumstances, and experience the inspiration
that constitutes a miracle, a sudden shift of perception, you will begin
to value the edge more. And so, if someone pushes you to the edge, you
won&rsquo;t retaliate against them. You&rsquo;ll say, hopefully
you&rsquo;ll remember to say, &ldquo;Oh, yeah. This is when really great
things begin to happen. And I&rsquo;m not going to distract myself from
the influx of a miracle by grousing at them for uncovering in me an
emptiness that can&rsquo;t be the Truth about me, that needs to be
filled; an opportunity for me to be more conscious than I thought I was
able to be.&rdquo; You see?

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you see Him &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; in everyone, consider how much you will be ASKING of
Him&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit. You&rsquo;ll be asking the Holy Spirit to show
up everywhere, right? By being willing to see the Holy Spirit in
everyone, you&rsquo;re asking the Holy Spirit a lot.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; consider how much you will be ASKING of Him, and &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; here&rsquo;s the kicker &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; HOW MUCH YOU WILL RECEIVE.
</div>

You see, this is why you don&rsquo;t need to be afraid of the edge.
Because it&rsquo;s the place where how much you can receive can make
itself available to you, because you&rsquo;re not defended against it,
or distracted from it by your preoccupation with being pissed off at the
person who drove you to the edge of your known capacity to be conscious.

Now you can look at that one who&rsquo;s driven you there and say,
&ldquo;You ask too much,&rdquo; or, you can actually do what you really
want to do and say to me right now, &ldquo;You ask of me too
much.&rdquo; But I am telling you that I&rsquo;m asking you to put
yourself in a position of discovering how much more of What You Really
Are there is available to you, and that is part of your Natural Sanity
which is perfectly normal to you, and you are capable of it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; will deny you nothing because you have denied HIM
nothing&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you have not denied Him your attention &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and so you can share everything. This is the way, and the ONLY
way, to have His answer because His answer is all you CAN ask for and
WANT. Say, then, to everyone:

&ldquo;Because I will to know myself I see you as God&rsquo;s Son and my
brother.&rdquo;
</div>

You can&rsquo;t solve the problem from the level of the problem. You
can&rsquo;t solve the problem by understanding the elements of the
problem better. You can&rsquo;t understand your Brother (or Sister) by
pegging him (or her) with a definition in your mind; an explanation of
them psychologically, physically, or any other way. What happens when
you peg a butterfly? Well, it&rsquo;s dead, and in a case, very
carefully arranged by you to look its most dead beautiful.

You have to be willing to let go of whatever way you have already pegged
your Brother, or Sister, and defined them in your mind, because if you
don&rsquo;t, whatever way you have carefully arranged what your Brother
is by definition in your mind, will, because you have arranged it, get
your allegiance and pride. And you will not be available to have the
Holy Spirit, or God, provide you with a sudden shift of perception that
allows you to see the Living One that they are, who isn&rsquo;t bound
either by your definition of them, or their own definitions of
themselves. And until you do abandon those definitions, and until you,
by virtue of having abandoned them, are able to see the living,
non-static, unpegged Presence that they are, there will be no
opportunity for you to be the presence of appreciation, the presence of
no judgment, that will allow them to abandon their defense and have a
sudden shift of perception themselves.

I&rsquo;ll tell you something. It&rsquo;s not up to them to make your
decision to stand at the edge and embrace what is beyond it, easier for
you. That&rsquo;s just another convenient delaying tactic. &ldquo;You
better behave differently so that my standing at the edge doesn&rsquo;t
seem so imperative. You need to make it easier for me.&rdquo; And
we&rsquo;re right back into the old ego-bullshit of manipulating into
mutually-agreed-upon definitions and ways of behavior that constitute
the dream you need to wake up out of.

So here&rsquo;s the big question. Here&rsquo;s your bottom line
vulnerability. &ldquo;What if when I do this and I do have miracles
happening, sudden shifts of perception do occur, and I make the gift,
and I, by embodying it now, have it, what if they don&rsquo;t change?
What if they continue to act badly? What if they continue to engage with
me in a manner that is calculated to upset me? Am I supposed to just
say, &lsquo;Thank you for the miracles,&rsquo; and let them continue to
behave badly?&rdquo; See, the suggestion is that maybe you will end up
being a doormat, because you&rsquo;re so busy making the gift, that
you&rsquo;re not saying &ldquo;No&rdquo;&mdash;that you abandoned simple
intelligence. You&rsquo;re afraid that abuse will become the norm.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[Repeating from beginning of today&rsquo;s material.]
{: .omit}

To believe &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in your Brother &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is to accept, and to SIDE WITH. To believe is not to be
credulous, but to accept and APPRECIATE.
</div>

No. None of this is going to amount to your being credulous, stupid,
naïve. Anything goes. Whatever you say, I believe, I accept. Whatever
way you behave, I believe, I accept. No.

I promise you that you cannot abuse me. And if you try to, if you engage
in that attitude and behavior, I will call it for what it is. Not to
attack you. Not as judgment. But to show you that you&rsquo;re doing
something that isn&rsquo;t working, to show you that you&rsquo;re doing
something that you don&rsquo;t want to do any longer, because it
isn&rsquo;t working&mdash;because it doesn&rsquo;t blend with the Way
Things Work. And then I will illuminate the Way Things Work so that you
can make a choice for that, instead. And I will hang in there with you,
but I will object. I will object, not by attacking you, but I will
object by calling the game for the game that it is, and not reacting to
it, and saying, &ldquo;This doesn&rsquo;t work. Don&rsquo;t do this with
me. It won&rsquo;t work. Stop doing this with me. Do this,
instead.&rdquo;

But, you see, that involves ongoing involvement; a continuing to give
your attention there where your Brother is, not to his behavior, but to
that of Excellence in him that you know has to be there. You will find
that inspiration and insight will give you the clarity to know how to be
in the moment with that Brother, or Sister. And, of course, I mean by
that mother, father, son, daughter, acquaintance&mdash;everyone. You
will find yourself knowing how to be with that Brother and Sister [in a
way] that does not allow chaos to persist. You will find that
guidelines, boundaries for communication, will be established out of
your mouth. You will not let chaos rule. You see?

You will find yourself taking hold. But always you will find yourself
taking hold in a context not that you knew of ahead of time, but a
context in which whatever inarticulate expressions, or whatever
willingness there is to be inarticulate is being expressed by your
Brother, will be squelched and required to fit in to a means of
communication that will allow dialogue to occur, rather than ongoing
mystification, confusion. And so you may very well find yourself seeming
to be authoritative, but not an exercise of control expressed as a means
for your not having to step up to the edge and lean into the unknown;
not as a defense against having to be more conscious.

The exercise of control will be the nudging and the guiding of ideas
that help provide a structure in the relationship that allows the one
you&rsquo;re with to abandon his or her defensive practices, and relax
enough to let themselves&mdash;Who They Are&mdash;find expression, and
for healing to occur. It might take a while, but since you will not be
into control, you will not be expressing an agenda for this other one.
You will &hellip; you will be the part of the dance of the relationship
that it&rsquo;s your Function to be, that supports in the most graceful
manner&mdash;in other words, with grace&mdash;a natural movement out of
the darkness of chaos on the part of your Sister or Brother. But
it&rsquo;s almost as though you&rsquo;re playing a tune that you have
never heard before, on an instrument you don&rsquo;t know how to play,
with fingers doing things they were never trained to do. And it will
happen easily.

Paul has no idea every Sunday night when we sit down what&rsquo;s going
to come out of his mouth, and it comes out most easily simply because he
lets. A tune is played, a dance occurs with everyone. It&rsquo;s not
hard. But you have to be willing to embrace your Brother as the Christ.
You have to be willing to look for and see the Holy Spirit in your
Brother, just as you are becoming more willing to see and lean into the
Holy Spirit in you, which is nothing more, nothing less, than your right
Mind, which is nothing less than the Presence of God.

Now that is the answer, no matter how complicated the details of any
given situation might seem to be; no matter how complex they might seem
to be.

&ldquo;The Journey Back&rdquo;&mdash;another chapter under our belt. The
journey back is not made by an ego improving itself, but is the
reawakening in you of the Christ of you coming back into its right Mind,
because it&rsquo;s no longer engaging in a fantasy activation in order
to try to make a sense of self real. And it abandons its divorce
proceedings from the Father, and rejoins, and lets in the experience of
its Excellence. And then lets in the Excellence of his Brother, or
Sister, as well, because in doing that it makes yours what you have been
willing to extend, what you have been willing to let fill you by virtue
of breaking the isolation from your Father, and which you have extended
on and made your own.

I find you worthy of acknowledging the Divinity of You. You must find
your Brother worthy of acknowledging the Divinity in him, because
that&rsquo;s the way you remember Who You Are. And that&rsquo;s just the
Way It Works.

I said that I would open this evening&rsquo;s get-together for
questions, or comments, or frustrations&mdash;whatever. You can talk
about gristle you&rsquo;ve run into, or filet mignon, that you&rsquo;ve
experienced, but this time is open because this is the nitty-gritty
here. Shall we start with the complainers? [audience amused] Let&rsquo;s
say the ones that have had a rough time.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I can kind of understand. I mean I grasp it. I feel like I grasp it.
Then I get out there and I find that really trying to do this, I feel
sort of like lost, like I lost my anchor. And the difficulties that
arise, the difference, the changes in the relationships that I have with
people, I find disconcerting, because it feels like I&rsquo;m disrupting
the way things have always been. And I&rsquo;m making people pissed at
me. And that&rsquo;s definitely, I don&rsquo;t believe that&rsquo;s my
intent. I don&rsquo;t think I&rsquo;m intentionally trying to go out and
do that. Is that kind of part of the &hellip; [^2]
</div>

Well, I&rsquo;m not intentionally go out and trying to do that either,
but [seeker laughs] there&rsquo;s often the same result. Apparent
disruption is not automatically cause for you to stop coming from the
Place of Excellence in you. It is one of the means the ego uses to
maintain the status quo and keep change from happening, keep miracles
from happening.

Well, when you were confronted with that, you find yourself feeling at a
loss, right?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yes.
</div>

Yes. Oh, so there you are at the edge, right? Well, you were at the edge
before you moved over enough to feel confidant to do this new thing that
you&rsquo;re doing which seems to be meeting with resistance. So change
is occurring. Shifting is occurring. Stay at the edge that it pushes you
further into so that you can listen and be appropriate under the new
elements of change that are now occurring.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
When that disruption happens, I&rsquo;m sometimes not sure. Am I going
the right direction? Have I &hellip; asking myself am I slipping off?
Did I get off into another, a new ego-trip kind of thing? It&rsquo;s
real tricky, slippery, very slippery. Is that &hellip;
</div>

The difference between the two will become more and more obvious as you
persist in the experience of stepping up to the edge and leaning into
the unknown, into the void, to listen for how to be, and what to do and
that&mdash;what to say next.

You&rsquo;re not so totally unconscious that you don&rsquo;t recognize
when you have really slipped into ego. It&rsquo;s only in the, what
I&rsquo;m going to call, the new area of trust-building that you are
engaging in by being in a new way. You have to persist long enough for
the trust to develop, so that there is not as much fear associated with
being out of control, but still acting in the world. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yes. That&rsquo;s feels better. I think I know what you mean.
There&rsquo;s nowhere else to go &lsquo;cause what was before is not
there anymore, so I only have &hellip; there&rsquo;s only forward to go.
A little sideways once in a while. [laughing]
</div>

What we&rsquo;re talking about all along the way here is the building of
trust around being in the world without using all of the
mutually-agreed-upon definitions that have been put into place that seem
to provide a sense of real security.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Thank you.
</div>

You&rsquo;re welcome.

Hands. Right there.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Well, you mentioned that God&rsquo;s Will and ours are one, and based on
this last two weeks when a lot of really crazy things happened, I kind
of was thinking about that. And I&rsquo;ve been listening to your CD. I
realized that it&rsquo;s because I really was being distracted by my own
definitions of everything. So then I had this brilliant idea that maybe
the smartest thing was to quit thinking about the past, and quit trying
to plan for the future, which left just now, and to drop all the
definitions and drop all the defenses that I had. And I noticed the
thought would come up, and there was all kinds of defense around it. And
when I would let all the defense go, I could just feel my whole body
energize somehow. And that &hellip; this is leading to where my question
is, really. Okay. So then, I&rsquo;m thinking all right, I&rsquo;m not a
body, I&rsquo;m a mind. So what does a mind do? Well, a mind thinks. And
then I think I heard you say it creates.
</div>

What Mind does is it pays attention.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Oh, thank you. I knew that there was more. There&rsquo;s nothing in
that. I knew there was more. Thank you. And you know me, I really want
definitions of everything.
</div>

Well, thinking is a distraction from paying attention.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
This is so cool. Thank you. [laughing]
</div>

Yes. Get that down in your book of definitions. [audience laughter]

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
[laughing] Thank you.
</div>

It is well to have the reminder, because this is a reminder to let go of
definitions.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yeah.
</div>

Continue.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I think that really handled it. I really wanted to understand what a
mind does. And, you know, if that&rsquo;s what I am, if I&rsquo;m this
Mind, then I need to pay attention. And it has to be in the now because
&hellip;
</div>

Well, Mind automatically does that.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Oh! I don&rsquo;t have to make it do that? Okay.
</div>

When you stop thinking, you&rsquo;ll find that what&rsquo;s left is you
paying attention.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Oh.
</div>

You being Conscious.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay.
</div>

And actually, you will find yourself paying attention in a way that
constitutes being more present with everything than you have ever been
before, because always your thinking has stood as a barrier, a cushion,
between you and that thing. So you have not really been able to be
intimately present with everything, because you&rsquo;ve got this
definition of it sitting between you and it. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Mm hmm.
</div>

So as you let go of the past, as you let go of the definitions, you end
up, you might say, just being Pure Consciousness.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
That would be cool.
</div>

Now Pure Consciousness is not infinite space absolutely clear of
anything in it. Consciousness is the experience of attentiveness to what
there is to be attentive to, which is Creation.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay.
</div>

God.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay. Okay.
</div>

So you will find yourself being a better driver. You will find yourself
being a better organizer, if that&rsquo;s what&rsquo;s needed. Or you
will find yourself being less organized because you were too
compulsively organized before. You will find yourself being so present
with everything in such an appropriate manner that the only way to
describe it would be that you will have the experience of being more
alive and more connected with everything.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
That would be good.
</div>

And everything will extend way beyond what you&rsquo;ve, in the past,
called everything. So you will not lose your capacity to be intelligent.
You will not begin to do foolish things. You will be the Presence of an
orderly Mind, you might say&mdash;not by virtue of your ordering
it&mdash;but an orderly Mind that sees order everywhere, that is by
virtue of its fundamental, intelligent structure communicating
intelligent structure and expecting to see intelligent
structure&mdash;not by plan, but just by Function. And everything will
reflect back to you the quality of Truth with which you&rsquo;re looking
at everything.

Now, in practical terms that means that everything that needs to get
done will get done. All of your relationships with the people in your
experience will be healing, or will be harmonious. You won&rsquo;t be
airy-fairy, strumming a harp. Your everyday life will &hellip; every
element of it will fit together in such integrity that there&rsquo;s not
a single space for confusion, or chaos, to enter. And every aspect of it
will be in Movement&mdash;the Flow of Creation identifying the
Father&rsquo;s Will.

And so, you will feel the orderliness of it; I&rsquo;m even going to say
the subatomic orderliness of it; the Orderliness of the Movement of
Being. And you will feel it right in this room here. You will feel the
space that seems to be empty, and how it configures perfectly with every
board in the ceiling and every indentation in the walls where the
windows are, and how perfectly the glass interfaces with the space
inside and identifies beauty, and more. You will feel the perfection of
all of the space and everything in it; in the space. You will experience
the awesomeness of this room, the outdoors, of your home, of the space
in between, of the way your car moves from here to there, and the space
that the air took up before your car moved into it shifts to the space
behind it, and so on. You will feel the integrity of all of it.

And I tell you, it is an awesome experience, not one that you, in bliss,
are sitting back having about everything else, but that you engaged in
the Movement yourself experience. What I&rsquo;m trying to convey here,
again, is not an other-worldly experience, but a new experience of right
where you have been all along. And why will you have this experience?
Because, in the absence of thinking, you will find that what is left is
Consciousness&mdash;Consciousness being attentive, and experiencing What
Is Here without the interference of the definitions about everything
that is here that you were employing before. And I will stop there with
your answer.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Thank you.
</div>

You&rsquo;re welcome.

Over here.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Thanks, Raj. I, too, have been chewing for the past couple of weeks,
struggling, if you will, with the &hellip; on the one hand, yeah, I felt
like in a way the way you described. You said some of us may feel like
this is unfair that you&rsquo;re asking us to do this, you know. And
because it just seems too advanced, it&rsquo;s like wait, wait, wait!
Shouldn&rsquo;t that come at the end of the book, or something? Because,
you know, I&rsquo;m having a hard enough time getting to a point where I
can &hellip;
</div>

Let me say this. The end of the book is where the last step is taken.
And we&rsquo;re talking about the second step.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay. Well, I&rsquo;m still struggling with the first step.
</div>

Indeed. And as I said, I&rsquo;ve now said you have to take two kinds of
steps together. Yes.

Continue.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Right. And I feel like I&rsquo;m one of those &hellip;
</div>

Wait a minute. I also said you are capable of it.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yes.
</div>

Okay.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Oh, I totally know that. I was blessed in the past by a point in time
when I was at the bottom of my bucket, and I was just in a complete
state of &ldquo;I give up, God.&rdquo; You know, take me out of here.
Whatever You&rsquo;re going to do with me, it&rsquo;s okay. I&rsquo;m
through with this, you know. Whatever happens, &ldquo;I surrender&rdquo;
kind of attitude. And out of that, when I meditated thinking,
&ldquo;Okay. This is fine with me if this is the last time I ever
meditate, you know. This is &hellip; I want to go to Heaven, or
wherever.&rdquo; I want to be out of here, was my attitude.

And somehow, by grace, I had an awakening, or, what I&rsquo;d call
nowadays, is sort of like a &ldquo;preview of coming attractions&rdquo;
experience where it was very much like you described. In other words,
there&rsquo;s a spontaneity of right action, appropriate speech, a state
of living in fulfillment, and knowing that my needs are met moment by
moment. And there&rsquo;s a spontaneous expression of sharing; wanting
to give from that overflowing of your heart.

But, okay, that sort of dwindled away. And I got back into the ego state
where everything is a struggle. And I see, you know, even though I have
that memory back there of that experience, I&rsquo;m still in a state
of, right now, in a state of &ldquo;okay, Raj is saying grasp this, do
this.&rdquo; And I&rsquo;m trying to do that from an intellectual plane,
which is what you&rsquo;ve been talking about tonight, which I really
appreciate this sort of screen of definitions. And all the ego could do
would be to try to pretend, or see, okay, I&rsquo;m going to try to
behave like Christ today. And I&rsquo;m going to be good. And I&rsquo;m
going to &hellip; you know. It&rsquo;s an act. It&rsquo;s the best that
could be done.
</div>

Exactly.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And it&rsquo;s just another costume. It&rsquo;s not the real thing.
</div>

It&rsquo;s another delay.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And so inside me, I know. I know the difference experientially, and so I
just go back and say, okay, look, there&rsquo;s nothing I can do other
than meditate and hope that I can let go of my resentments towards
family members, other people, and all these bullshit stories that I have
that I want justice.
</div>

I understand. Let me interrupt.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So I really appreciate what you said tonight.
</div>

What can you do? What am I asking you to do?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
What I was struggling with, which tonight you&rsquo;ve brought some
clarity to, is it seemed like you were asking us to not only know
ourselves as Christs, but to see that Divineness in our brother, and our
sister, and our neighbor, and our boss, and everybody. And I was feeling
like [whoosh sound], you know, I can&rsquo;t even see that in myself
right now experientially. All I could do is try to imagine it, or
intellectually define it.
</div>

You want to know something?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
What?
</div>

If you, or anyone else who might ever hear these words, listens, you
will learn something wonderful. If you find yourself ill and in the
hospital, you want to know the surest way to have a healing? Find
someone else, perhaps in the very same room you&rsquo;re in, someone
else who is in the hospital, and devote your[self] &hellip; let them be
the object of your affection. If you want healing, give healing.

&lsquo;&lsquo;Oh! But you ask too much! I&rsquo;m in the hospital.
I&rsquo;m not in tip-top shape. I don&rsquo;t feel energetic. I
don&rsquo;t feel like giving.&rdquo; Well, that&rsquo;s why you&rsquo;re
in the hospital. You see? Illness is an extreme form of isolation caused
by self-preoccupation, in one way or another.  And so, here you are,
I&rsquo;m saying, in the hospital. And I&rsquo;m saying what
you&rsquo;re called upon for is to be willing to have someone else in
need be the object of your affection and give your devotion to that one,
listening to God for the Truth about that one.

&ldquo;Oh! Oh! You mean &hellip; well, but what about me? I&rsquo;m the
one in the hospital that needs healing. You know, who&rsquo;s gonna do
this for me? You want me to do it for them?&rdquo; Yes.

Why? Because it&rsquo;s the way you break your isolation. It&rsquo;s
never going to be easy to break your isolation, because it&rsquo;s a
very ingrained habit. And anyone asking you to do what it takes to break
the isolation is going to seem like an unreasonable demand, because you
have other things to take care of. You have more urgent things. Blah,
blah, blah. &lsquo;Tain&rsquo;t so. You have only one thing that you
need to do, and that is break the isolation.

And so, if you want healing, be a healing presence, whether you think
that it&rsquo;s an opportune time or not. If you want healing, give
healing, because what you give, you get to keep. What you actually
really extend becomes yours, becomes embodied.

And you know what? Until you wake up, there&rsquo;s always going to be
some apparently worthy thing for you to attend to other than what
I&rsquo;ve just told you to do. There&rsquo;s going to always be some
sort of emergency, or urgency, or strong need that you feel compelled to
deal with. But I&rsquo;m telling you that those things are the result of
your having forgotten to say, &ldquo;Father, help.&rdquo; You have
forgotten to let something else in. So find an object of your affection,
and extend Love so that you might have Love.

Continue.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yes. I appreciate that shift of perception from &hellip; let&rsquo;s
&hellip; you know, I have experienced that. I could be dwelling on
something from the past that I have grievance over, and then maybe the
phone rings and it&rsquo;s one of my sons. And I&rsquo;ll just instantly
I&rsquo;m in a state of gratitude, appreciation. So the mind is really
fickle in that way. It can shift from one thing to another. I could be
totally depressed at one moment, and then very happy in the next.
</div>

But there is something determining where the attention is going to shift
to and whether it&rsquo;s going to do it at this moment. So you &hellip;
there is a decider there.

Yeah.

You could have answered the phone, found out it was your son, and
projected all of your negative feelings about the past that you had been
ruminating about onto him, and ruined the conversation.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Right. Right.
</div>

Okay.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Where I have a little bit of a &ldquo;yes but&rdquo; in what
you&rsquo;re saying here is affection.
</div>

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
If I see something beautiful, I don&rsquo;t have any trouble feeling
love and appreciation for it. It just comes spontaneously. But if I see
someone who is the way you described; say I&rsquo;m in the hospital and
the guy in the bed next to me is in worse shape than me, or maybe not,
whatever, I don&rsquo;t want to get into a sort of a self-righteous kind
of okay, I&rsquo;m going to extend love to this decrepit, poor person
because I want healing for myself. That&rsquo;s bullshit!
</div>

That&rsquo;s right.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I want to be coming from natural, real affection.
</div>

You don&rsquo;t want to do any of it yourself.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Right.
</div>

What I mean by this is that if you&rsquo;re going to extend Love,
you&rsquo;re going to have to turn first to the Father, and ask the
Father to reveal to you what is lovable about this man, what is the
Truth about this man. And you are going to listen for the Father, just
as Paul is listening for me right now, so that you might be infilled
with what the Father extends, so that you might &hellip; so that your
perspective is changed and automatically embraces that one. And there
won&rsquo;t be anything about your doing something for somebody else so
that you will get something. I&rsquo;m just explaining to you that when
you do that, something does happen.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Right.
</div>

And you get to keep what you have given. And you will never have what
you never give. Okay.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yeah.
</div>

I want to make sure there is time for anyone else.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay. Sure. Thank you.
</div>

[indicating to someone that they can speak] Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Thank you, Raj. The answers of some of the other people who&rsquo;ve
asked questions have already given me some of the answers to my
question. But being a father, and a brother, and a husband, over the
last two weeks I have had the chance to enjoy the last lectures that
we&rsquo;ve enjoyed out of the Course &hellip; um &hellip; have been
some[what] of a personal tsunami for me because of the &hellip;
</div>

(PAUL) A personal?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
&hellip; personal tsunami of my own with the family that we&rsquo;ve
&hellip;
</div>

(PAUL) Personal &ldquo;sue-no-me&rdquo;?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Tsunami. Tsunami.
</div>

(PAUL) Oh, tsunami. Okay. [laughing]

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Considering what we&rsquo;ve just gone through. And I have to wonder how
one can bring all these personalities into some kind of agreement, even
when I walk with the Course in my hand and my heart.
</div>

Why do you have to bring them all into agreement?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
That&rsquo;s a good question. It seems to be such a personal conflict
and chaos in the family with personalities.
</div>

A conceptual one? Or &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
There is a strong feature about each personality in my family. And they
seem to find the differences, not the commonalities to allow love in
their life. And it makes it hard, from my perception, to try to &hellip;
</div>

They love rigorous interchange.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
They do that. It gives me an opportunity to use the Course in Miracles
frequently. But sometimes I think my feet are still in the concrete.
</div>

&ldquo;Father, help me. Help me neglect to exercise judgment just
because I am with those whose rigorousness makes it appear to me that
they are expressing more ego-dynamics than I, for myself, want to
employ.&rdquo;

What I&rsquo;m trying to say to you is that maybe what they&rsquo;re
doing isn&rsquo;t all ego-dynamics, but just a different way of
expressing themselves; sort of a different language of communication
than the one you&rsquo;re familiar with, and which, because you&rsquo;re
not familiar with it, causes you to feel inadequate, at a loss. I am
suggesting that you go within to ask whether or not any exercise of
control is needed at all. And if not, how you can be present with it
without engaging in judgment, and how you can be with it without feeling
threatened by its intensity. To be spiritually aware does not mean to
become delicate and unable to withstand vigor.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Thank you.
</div>

You&rsquo;re welcome.

Over here.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Raj, what&rsquo;s interesting for me is that I&rsquo;m in a situation in
my life right now where it&rsquo;s a relationship that started out as a
contractual agreement, in that I had some technical work that needed to
be done on a project that I was working on, and I wasn&rsquo;t, I
didn&rsquo;t have that technical ability, so I contracted someone to
come in and do it. And what I thought was going to turn out to be a
three-month project is now going over ten months.

And it&rsquo;s a situation where initially I felt, well, the
person&rsquo;s just incompetent, and so I need to just take all my stuff
back from them and find someone else. And then I thought, well, you
know, and again I&rsquo;m giving you the history, &lsquo;cause for me
there was a shift in it in that, you know, then I thought, I beat myself
up that, well, I should&rsquo;ve had a termination date in the contract.
And so I went &hellip; all this operating number one stuff about doing
business the right way came up. And then I thought, well, wait a minute.
This &hellip; no. This is a lose-lose situation. I&rsquo;m not getting
what I need from the relationship, and she&rsquo;s not getting what she
needs from the relationship. So let me look deeper into this. And then,
of course, just by coincidence, we&rsquo;re covering this stuff in the
Course. And so now I&rsquo;m saying okay, now what&rsquo;s the real
message? What is she telling me?

So I set up some meetings with her at her house with the computer to
work on the project so I could be right there with her involved in the
project as she was. And then I realized that this lady has so many other
distractions going on in her life that it&rsquo;s very difficult for her
just to sit with the project for any length of time. And so I&rsquo;ve
been with her now on several occasions to try and move the project
along. And I&rsquo;m still &hellip; it&rsquo;s like the first thing I
came up with was there&rsquo;s an attention deficit disorder going on
here. In other words, she can&rsquo;t really bring her forces to bear
here.

And then on my side, it was me saying, you know, she&rsquo;s taking
advantage of me here, you know, my patience, my resources, whatever. So
there was a real charge behind it. And that&rsquo;s what fascinated me
about the situation is that whenever there&rsquo;s that much of a charge
behind a situation, I know that there&rsquo;s more meat here to chew on,
and that I need to go in with it so I can get clear, because until I can
get clear, it&rsquo;s not going to move on, or I&rsquo;m going to have
to repeat it again. So that&rsquo;s the point that I&rsquo;m at now
where it&rsquo;s coming to like, you know, the ball is in her court
again. She&rsquo;s got to finish this thing up and present me with a
finished project, a finished product.

And so now I&rsquo;m being more open and looking beyond the surface than
I ever have been with this situation. So, I am at that point, like you
said tonight, where I&rsquo;m going, &ldquo;Father, you know,
what&rsquo;s going on here? What&rsquo;s the meaning of this
situation?&rdquo; But, yet, at the same time I don&rsquo;t want to get
caught in this situation of, well, I&rsquo;ll give her just one more
chance. I&rsquo;ll give her just one more chance. You know, it&rsquo;s
like &hellip; or the situation of, well, if I really pray hard and be
open to the Father, the problem will go away. You see what I mean? So
that&rsquo;s my question. It&rsquo;s like what&rsquo;s the appropriate
&hellip; you know. Okay, now, I&rsquo;m waiting. I&rsquo;m listening.
I&rsquo;m paying attention. Is that all? Do you stop there? Do you just
keep paying attention? Or what&rsquo;s the &hellip;
</div>

That&rsquo;s exactly what you do. You continue paying attention. The new
modus operandi is pay attention, pay attention, pay attention, pay
attention. That&rsquo;s called Being.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So instead of taking the initiative, it becomes responding
appropriately.
</div>

Exactly. And responding from a deep connectedness in you to the Movement
itself, irrespective of personalities, psychologies, mental disorders,
or definitions that are out of the past. You be in life ongoingly with
innocence.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Well, just &hellip; I mean you know so I&rsquo;ll ask if that&rsquo;s
what I&rsquo;m doing now, right?
</div>

That is what you are doing now, but you are still struggling with
letting go of some ordering structure, or grid, to hold the Movement up
against so that you may judge, or a judgment can be made.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Progress. Yes. Yes.
</div>

Indeed. And that&rsquo;s &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Silly.
</div>

It&rsquo;s the useless stuff that you are learning to let go of.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yes. Right. Because in effect that says, I mean holding onto that
structure says I know the timetable for this particular thing to be
done, as opposed to following God&rsquo;s timetable, so to speak.
</div>

Now you notice also that you&rsquo;re talking about circumstances,
projects, time, et cetera. We didn&rsquo;t read anything about
circumstances, time, projects. We were talking about relationship and
the necessity for each of you to be willing to see the Holy Spirit, or
the Christ, in your Brother, just as you are learning you have to do
with yourself. And to reach for, to lean into, to connect with the Holy
Spirit in your Brother, or your Sister. And that you&rsquo;ve spoken
very little of here. But your attention is in that direction. I simply
want to bring it more solidly in that direction.

You don&rsquo;t give your attention to the Excellence in them so that
you can find out how to be in better control, or to find out what their
problem is. You talk to the Holy Spirit to find out what the Truth about
them is so that you, in your Conscious Awareness of Truth about them,
are sending out those messengers about them. They will come back
reporting what they were sent out to find, which will be confirming of
your right intent, but which will also be a blessing for this other one.
You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
See, what I&rsquo;m experiencing right now is I see this person
struggling. Okay? And so, like I&rsquo;m a little bit fixated on their
struggle, saying, &ldquo;How can I support this person in their
struggle?&rdquo;
</div>

What&rsquo;s the definition of struggle? And what degree of struggling?
What&rsquo;s the degree of intensity of the struggle?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Right. Right. Right.
</div>

This is something you&rsquo;re applying to a benign picture.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Right.
</div>

You see what I&rsquo;m saying?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Right. Now theoretically I can &hellip; and I say this theoretically, I
can see, I mean I know that this person is a good person. The Holy
Spirit is in them.
</div>

How do you know that?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Because I can feel it. I mean you can, I can feel that this person is
not a bad person. They&rsquo;re not trying to take advantage of me.
They&rsquo;re not, you know, jerking me around. They&rsquo;re doing the
best they can.
</div>

Yes, but I want you to feel that they&rsquo;re a good person because the
Holy Spirit has revealed it to you, and not because you can sense that
she fits into a certain structure of definitions.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Right. Right.
</div>

You see what I&rsquo;m saying?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yes.
</div>

I want it to be, I want you to be looking more for an experience than a
sense.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Right. But the thing is &hellip;
</div>

An experience that has been derived from an actual connection with the
Holy Spirit.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Right. And that&rsquo;s what I&rsquo;m trying to get at here. That is
not, that does not come from trying to see it in the other person. It
comes from being open and asking to be shown. Correct?
</div>

And I am telling you that you, from your human experience, recognize
that she exhibits, let&rsquo;s say, a certain number of criteria that
tell you that she&rsquo;s basically a good person. And that&rsquo;s not
the same as a direct connection with the Holy Spirit.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Right.
</div>

So I&rsquo;m pointing you in the direction of going deeper for a Holy
Spirit experience, rather than a recognition that certain criteria have
been met that allow her to be recognized as a basically good person
who&rsquo;s overwhelmed herself for whatever reason.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Right.
</div>

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And the best way for me to receive that is just ask for it and be open
to it.
</div>

Exactly.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Not having. Not doing. There&rsquo;s nothing to do here. It&rsquo;s just
&hellip;
</div>

Except ask.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Except ask.
</div>

Step right up to the edge of what you don&rsquo;t know and lean into it
with the desire to know the Truth that needs to be known.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Right. Right. Right. At this point it seems like &hellip;
</div>

The Truth that heals.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Right. It&rsquo;s, to me at this point, it seems like that is more
important than project completion, or project success, or &hellip;
</div>

They&rsquo;re so inseparable it&rsquo;s not funny.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Right, right, right. But what I&rsquo;m saying is my attention is now on
what &hellip; the real value is what is the &hellip; how can I make this
connection? How can I see the miracle unfold from the situation?
</div>

Yes. Exactly.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And then just be with that.
</div>

Exactly.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay. Thank you.
</div>

Yes.

If we end right now, is there anyone who will go away and be absolutely
angry because they didn&rsquo;t speak up? [audience laughter] Okay.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Just dejected and hurt probably would have been it.

I&rsquo;ve been kind of fuzzy about the understanding of what extending
healing meant. And as everyone&rsquo;s been asking and as you&rsquo;ve
been talking, I think I&rsquo;ve realized that I thought if I extend
healing, I would see a change out there. And I feel like I feel, you
know, affection in here for an object of my affection out there, and
then they start to talk. [laughing] You know, and then they say their
complaints, or their whatever.
</div>

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And I can&rsquo;t agree with what they&rsquo;re saying, but I
haven&rsquo;t known how to offer anything else. I did have a &hellip;
</div>

They don&rsquo;t want you to agree. They want a different answer
themselves. They want not to have to register that complaint, or that
perspective. And so you have to listen for what the answer is. You have
to listen for what the answer is so that you can share that.

What&rsquo;s behind the moan? What is the Truth that makes them feel the
illegitimacy of their experience, so that they have justification for
complaining about the experience? Do you see what I&rsquo;m saying?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yeah. I did it with a stranger once.
</div>

(PAUL) Pardon.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
You know, it happened to me with a stranger. And I really leaned in, you
know, to my Guidance, and I heard, &ldquo;I&rsquo;ll give you a new
experience of this person if you don&rsquo;t run away.&rdquo; And we
didn&rsquo;t have any words. But I totally received, you know, a miracle
and a blessing and really saw the beauty of them. I find it, I mean
maybe I just am not leaning into it as much with people that I know and
I&rsquo;m having a conversation with.
</div>

Exactly. Like I said, you know them too damn well to think that there is
a Place of Excellence in them.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
[laughing] Right. Yeah.
</div>

You see? Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay.
</div>

And of course, that&rsquo;s your judgment. And those are the messengers
you send out.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Right.
</div>

And communication doesn&rsquo;t occur, no matter how much talking goes
on.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay.

Because when it happened that spontaneous time, like I had no, you know,
agenda for that person having a change in front of me, even though he
did have a change. You know he went from being snarling and everything
to being calm. But I think I&rsquo;m, you know, quote &ldquo;extending
healing&rdquo; to a lot of people around me to change them, and to, you
know, control the situation, or something. And so that&rsquo;s not
leaning into the Holy Spirit at all, you know.
</div>

Yes. The key here is one of the pieces of gristle.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[Raj reads a sentence from an earlier meeting.]
{: .omit}

The message your brother gives you is UP TO YOU.
</div>

If you think there is an ego there, and you&rsquo;re listening for an
ego to speak, an ego is what you&rsquo;re going to hear, even if
they&rsquo;re speaking the utter Truth. If they are speaking the utter
Truth and you recognize the excellence of it, because you&rsquo;re
expecting an ego to speak, you are going to be suspicious of the motive
for such Holiness and Excellence that&rsquo;s being expressed, and you
will not see it.

And if they are coming from an ego place, and what they are saying is an
expression of confusion and misunderstanding of What They Are, you, if
you are listening for the Holy Spirit in them, will hear what is behind
their poor expression, so that you can respond to that. But what you
hear will be up to you, and that is the key.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay.
</div>

Now, just because we move on doesn&rsquo;t mean that this chapter should
be left behind. Review it over the next few months. Review it, remind
yourself, because it sets a foundation for the rest of what is to come.

Okay.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Thank you.
</div>

Was there another question over here? [no question was forthcoming]

Okay. You are a wonderfully lovable, motley crew. [audience laughter] I
love you greatly and I look forward to being with you next week.

[^1]: T8.10 The Answer to Prayer
[^2]: Students commenting or asking a question

