---
title: Jan 16, 2005
ref: "T9 Introduction"
alink: "/acim/text/09/chap0900/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*The Correction of Error*
</div>

What&rsquo;s another way of saying that? The correction of
misperception.

And how does misperception get corrected? By providing the conditions in
which a miracle can occur. And what is a miracle? A sudden shift of
perception. And how do you provide the conditions for a miracle to
occur? By abandoning your best judgments, by abandoning your thinking,
by becoming still and going within and asking to know the Truth. Asking
of whom or what? The Holy Spirit&mdash;that which is nothing more than
your right Mind. By asking your Guide, or by asking God.

In other words, you provide the conditions for a miracle, a sudden shift
of perception, by reaching beyond your memory, by reaching beyond your
strongest beliefs, by joining with something beyond the realm of your
limited conscious awareness, or the area of your unlimited Conscious
Awareness that you have circumscribed and bound yourself to. You provide
the conditions for a miracle to occur by abandoning your isolation. And
you abandon it by inviting something else in. When you do that and a
sudden shift of perception occurs, error is corrected, misperception
leaves you, causing you to no longer be looking at your world through
the lens of your misperception, and allowing you to see everything
through the Eyes of God. In other words, with the capacity to see What
Is Truly There with the concurrent or simultaneous awareness that you,
who are looking at it, are the Presence of Mind which is the Mind of
God. So it isn&rsquo;t you seeing something awesome where you had seen
something quite ordinary in the past. It&rsquo;s you, being something
quite awesome, seeing that which is quite awesome that you had missed
before when you thought you were what you believed you were, and looked
at everything through that lens.

This section is relatively easy to understand without explanation.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The alertness of the ego to the errors which other egos make is not the
kind of vigilance the Holy Spirit &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that which is nothing more than your right Mind &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; would have you maintain.
</div>

Again.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The alertness of the ego to the errors which other egos make is not the
kind of vigilance the Holy Spirit would have you maintain. Egos are
critical in terms of the kind of &ldquo;sense&rdquo; they stand for.
THEY understand this kind of sense, because it IS sensible to them. To
the Holy Spirit, it makes no sense at all. To the ego, it is kind and
right and good to point out errors and &ldquo;correct&rdquo; them.
</div>

Well, where does the correction, where does &hellip; where is the error
that the ego is trying to correct? It&rsquo;s always out there in
someone else, or something else, or in a circumstance, or in a political
system&mdash;whatever.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To the ego, it is kind and right and good to point out errors and
&ldquo;correct&rdquo; them.
</div>

Which involves manipulating your world out there to correct the errors,
to correct those who are coming from erroneous places, who are thinking
erroneously and behaving badly because of their erroneous perceptions.
But that doesn&rsquo;t fit in, does it, with what I described as the
means for the correction of error, because what I described had nothing
to do with manipulating anything out there. It had to do with you
providing the conditions under which the miracle could occur, the sudden
shift of perception in you, the result of which is your seeing with new
eyes not bound by your previous concepts and misperceptions.

Again.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To the ego, it is kind and right and good to point out errors and
&ldquo;correct&rdquo; them. This makes perfect sense to the ego, which
is totally unaware of what errors ARE and what correction IS.
</div>

Well, we discussed what errors are. They are misperceptions believed by
you, by anyone. And the correction of misperception occurs in you by
your again providing the environment, the conditions, in which a sudden
shift of perception can occur.

You must ask the question, &ldquo;Where is the error and who is
suffering from it?&rdquo;

If you say the error is out there, causing bad behavior out there which
I&rsquo;m suffering from, you&rsquo;re already caught in the dream. And
you are not providing the conditions under which a sudden shift of
perception can occur, which is what will constitute the correction of
error. The error lies in the fact that you are not looking at your
Brother, or at your world, with God, or with the Holy Spirit.
You&rsquo;re doing it all by yourself in the privacy of your very
private definition of yourself&mdash;in other words, as an orphan. That
is where the error is and that is what the error is. And that is the
only place that the error can be corrected that will suddenly cause you
to become what could be called an agent for change, a healer.

Indeed, you do have Brothers and Sisters who are suffering from their
own misperceptions. And they are behaving on the basis of their
misperceptions, their misunderstanding of Who They Are. And they deserve
not to be suffering from that, just as much as you.

When you go within and you join with the Father, or the Holy Spirit, and
you allow the miracle to occur, the sudden shift of perception within
you to occur, you will now not behave toward your misperceiving Brother
as though the error is there and you must correct it there. You will be
with that Brother, knowing What He Truly Is, because you&rsquo;ll be
seeing something awesome there. And as I said, that vision will be
accompanied by the awareness that the Awareness, the Consciousness That
You Are, is Itself something awesome.

And the awesomeness of What You Are, and the awesomeness of What Your
Brother Is, will cause you not to attack him, not to try to change him,
but to be with him in a way that is so utterly benign that he cannot
help but feel the Love that he is embraced with, or embraced by, when
he&rsquo;s with you, causing him to feel a level of safety, and even
courage to dare to drop his defense. You will be an agent for change
because the Movement of Love that will be engendered by you, by your
letting it through, will be recognized by him or her. And the invitation
for him to put down his defenses will not be perceived as coercion, or
as an attempt to correct.

Because remember whenever you engage in attempting to correct a Brother,
there is an unstated premise to your attempt, and that is that your
Brother is at fault. There is a judgment there and your Brother feels
that. And that immediately calls for defense and causes your Brother to
see you as a manipulator coming from the same ego place he, or she, is
coming from, which means that your motives for manipulation are
self-serving to you and that one better defend himself vigorously. This
is why the attempt to correct a Brother doesn&rsquo;t work, and does
initiate and bring forth strong radical defense, even though there
isn&rsquo;t a bit of sense to the defense, even though you can see that
the defense is insane.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Errors ARE of the ego, and correction of errors of any kind lies
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; where? Not in changing the egos of others, but it lies &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; solely in the RELINQUISHMENT of the ego.
</div>

And who&rsquo;s going to relinquish it? The one who sees errors out
there to correct. Who&rsquo;s going to relinquish it? The only one you
know about&mdash;you.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you correct a brother, you are telling him that he is wrong. He may
be making no sense at the time, and it is certain that, if he is
speaking from the ego, he WILL be making no sense. But your task is
still to tell him he is RIGHT.
</div>

Now listen to the next sentence.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You do not tell him this verbally, if he is speaking foolishly, because
he needs correction at ANOTHER level, since his error IS at another
level.
</div>

There is a rather foolish new-age premise that everyone is creating his
own reality and no one has a right to override it because it is a gift
of God, or from God, to you to be able to create your own reality. That
is your function. That is what you&rsquo;re in this experience for.
Therefore, no one has the right to tell you that you are wrong. You have
a God-given right to create your own reality without objection from any
quarter. That is foolishness.

This can be carried further by those who pick up the Course, who are
unclear and think that this is, indeed, supporting that premise, and so
one reads and says, &ldquo;It says, &lsquo;But your task is still to
tell him he is right.&rsquo;&rdquo; No, he&rsquo;s not right in his
misperception.

But you know what? The key element here is that no matter how your
Brother, or Sister, is behaving, in fact no matter how any one of you is
behaving, ignorantly based upon misperceptions you have, it
doesn&rsquo;t change the fact that although forgotten by you, you are at
this instant the full and Direct Expression of God. It is God who is
embodying Himself/Herself right there where you are. And nothing else is
present but What God Is Being right there where you are. And the
acknowledgement of this is the acknowledgement that you are
fundamentally right. Your very Being is right. Your very Being is
flawless, innocent, at this moment.

Your behavior doesn&rsquo;t reflect that fact, and correction is called
for there. But your misbehaving based upon your misperceptions
doesn&rsquo;t change What You Divinely Are. And some one of you with
everyone else, with every other one of you, must dare to take the
radical stand that the one you are confronted by is fundamentally right,
is fundamentally the Christ. Someone must dare to look at his Brother,
or Sister, with the conscious intent of acknowledging that, instead of
continuing down the path of the general misperception that everyone is
just a mortal, a product of a sperm and an egg, a physical organism. Or,
perhaps a little bit better, a spirit temporarily in a body and
appearing to be a material organism. You have to start daring to be
radical enough to look at your miserable Brother and not believe what
you&rsquo;re seeing, to contradict it in your mind by acknowledging What
Is True.

Now, you have book-learning, you have knowledge, you might say, from
having read the Course, from having been with me in these sessions. You
have knowledge as to what the Truth about your Brother is. And on the
basis of that knowledge, you can break the habit of what you used to
think by thinking something new, but that is not all it takes, because
that&rsquo;s not you experiencing What Is True. But if you will abide
with the knowledge you have gained and be with it, rather than being in
a constant state of reaction to your Brother&rsquo;s bad behavior, you
will provide the conditions under which a miracle can occur in you, the
conditions under which you will suddenly find yourself relinquishing the
ego&mdash;your ego. And that&rsquo;s the point at which you become an
agent for change and healing can begin to occur.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[This is part of the sentence before the last sentence which was read.]
{: .omit}

&hellip; your task is still to tell him he is RIGHT.
</div>

You understand the difference here? It doesn&rsquo;t mean that you look
at him and at his behavior and at what he&rsquo;s saying and you say,
&ldquo;Yes, that&rsquo;s right. That&rsquo;s right. You have the right
to create your own reality, and you&rsquo;re doing quite a job of it.
And you&rsquo;re right.&rdquo; No.

Your task is still to tell him he, the Divine One That He Is, is right.
And the Divine One That He Is that is right is present at the very
moment that you&rsquo;re saying it, in spite of his ignorant behavior.
You dare to take the radical stand of acknowledging What Is True About
Him right when he is behaving badly.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You do not tell him this verbally, if he is speaking foolishly, because
he needs correction at ANOTHER level, since his error IS at another
level. HE &hellip;
</div>

Now listen.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
HE is still right, because he is a Son of God.
</div>

You see? The level at which the change has to occur is within him where
he&rsquo;s willing to make a shift in his perception as to What He Is,
not just a tentative and short-lived physical organism, but as an
Eternal Presence of Mind that is God Being Himself right there where
that Mind is. Period.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
HE is still right, because he is a Son of God. His ego is always wrong,
no matter WHAT it says or does.

If you point out the errors of your brother&rsquo;s ego, you must be
seeing through YOURS, because the Holy Spirit does not perceive his
errors.
</div>

Holy Spirit&mdash;that which is nothing more than your right Mind. Your
right Mind does not perceive your Brother&rsquo;s errors.

So if you&rsquo;re seeing errors to be corrected, you&rsquo;re not
seeing through anything other than your very own ego. And you&rsquo;re
not in a position to be an actual agent for change. You&rsquo;re only in
a position to exert more force, more apparent power, than the strength
of your Brother&rsquo;s conviction as to his way of looking at things
and causing him for self-preservation to yield to the force that you
bring to bear upon him. But both of you are still totally ignorant of
What You Are, and there is nothing present to be an agent for change. No
healer/healing present or possible.

Again.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you point out the errors of your brother&rsquo;s ego, you must be
seeing through YOURS, because the Holy Spirit does not perceive his
errors. This must be true if there is no communication at all between
the ego and the Holy Spirit.
</div>

Why isn&rsquo;t there any communication at all between the ego and the
Holy Spirit? Because you&rsquo;ve divorced the two. When you divorced
the Father and said, &ldquo;Father, I would rather see it my way,&rdquo;
you caused a split between yourself&mdash;what you currently call
yourself&mdash;and What You Divinely Are, which is called the Holy
Spirit until you remember Who You Are, and then you become the Son of
God, the Presence of God, as an Experience.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego makes no sense, and the Holy Spirit does not attempt to
understand anything that arises from it. Since He does not understand
it, He does not JUDGE it, knowing that nothing it engenders &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning the ego &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; means anything.
</div>

The next section is entitled:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*Sanity and Perception*

When you react AT ALL to errors, you are not listening to the Holy
Spirit.
</div>

Why? Because the Holy Spirit doesn&rsquo;t see errors. It does see calls
for correction. But it&rsquo;s like this:

There&rsquo;s an old car, a junk heap, parked in a field and a plant
starts to grow underneath the junk heap&mdash; the junk, the
car&mdash;the junk car. And as it grows up, it bumps into the underside
of the car and can&rsquo;t proceed further.

Well, from an ego standpoint the correct response would be to say to
that plant, &ldquo;What a fool you are for germinating there. Look at
you. You can&rsquo;t grow tall like you&rsquo;re supposed to.
You&rsquo;ve started growing in a place where you are hit by an obstacle
and blocked from normal growth. How foolish of you. You&rsquo;re doomed
to a misshapen bent existence. And you will never be able to stand proud
like your other brother and sister plants. And you will be the subject
of ridicule and laughter. How foolish of you to have done that.&rdquo;

The Holy Spirit, on the other hand, does see a call for correction, but
the correction isn&rsquo;t scolding and ridicule. The correction is to
lift the junk heap off, because the Holy Spirit sees that it&rsquo;s the
nature of the plant to grow and stand tall and straight. And It, the
Holy Spirit, stands in support of establishing that Meaning and Purpose
that is the plant&rsquo;s, with nothing blocking it. And so it
doesn&rsquo;t scold the plant. It moves the junk car, the junk heap. Its
behavior acts in complete support and consistence with the Function and
the Meaning of the existence of that plant. The plant, as a result, does
not feel belittled. It does not feel ashamed. It feels the recognition
of its Truth. And what I mean by that is it feels the recognition of its
innate Meaning and Function, and appreciation is spontaneous, not
defense.

You see the difference? Correction&mdash;from the standpoint of clear
perception&mdash;emboldens, nurtures, supports, and substantiates That
Which Is True in each and every thing.

Again.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you react AT ALL to errors, you are not listening to the Holy
Spirit. He has merely disregarded them, and if you attend to them, you
are not hearing HIM.
</div>

You&rsquo;re not hearing that which is nothing more than your right
Mind. You&rsquo;re still standing in the dark. You&rsquo;re still
standing in ignorance.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you do not hear Him, you ARE &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and the word &ldquo;are&rdquo; is emphasized &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you ARE listening to your ego, and making as little sense as
the brother whose errors you perceive. This cannot be correction. Yet it
is more than merely lack of correction for him. It is the giving up of
correction in YOURSELF.
</div>

And I would add: By you.

It constitutes you making a choice to continue to be ignorant, to not
experience a sudden shift of perception that causes you to no longer
misperceive and allows you to more clearly fulfill your Function as the
Presence of Love.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When a brother behaves insanely, you can &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; heal him only by perceiving the SANITY in him.
</div>

Remember, this chapter is called, &ldquo;The Correction of Error.&rdquo;
Why? Why would we have a subject like that? Why would we discuss it?
Because there is something that needs to be done. There is something
that needs to happen because you&rsquo;re not experiencing your
Function. You&rsquo;re not experiencing your Divinity. You&rsquo;re
bound by a tiny perception of yourself that limits the Divine One That
You Are greatly. And correction is called for.

Remember what we&rsquo;re reading about is not about nice happy thoughts
that cause you not to be distressed when everyone else is being
distressed&mdash;someone finding bliss in misery. That&rsquo;s not what
it&rsquo;s about. It really is about correction. It really is about
experiencing Heaven, instead of what you&rsquo;re experiencing.

Your Function is to heal and to be healed. Your Function at the moment
is to wake up, so that any stress and misery and tension that you might
be experiencing will fade away, no longer to be any part of your
experience so that you can be in a new way in the world and with your
Brothers and Sisters.

I&rsquo;m going to back up.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you do not hear Him&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you ARE listening to your ego, and making as little sense as
the brother whose errors you perceive. This cannot be correction. Yet it
is more than merely lack of correction for him. It is the giving up of
correction in YOURSELF.
</div>

It is giving up your own healing.

And I promise you that whenever you find a Brother, or a Sister, not to
be worthy of your willingness to see What Is Real, with a capital
&ldquo;R&rdquo;, about them, you are using your Brothers and Sisters as
justification for not experiencing healing and awakening yourself. If
you want to wake up, you&rsquo;re going to have to begin to use your
Brothers and Sisters as justification for seeing What Is True about them
so that you might wake up.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When a brother behaves insanely, you can heal him only by perceiving the
SANITY in him.
</div>

The Divine Sanity. The Real Truth about him.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you perceive his errors and ACCEPT them, you are accepting YOURS.
</div>

It really is impossible for you to believe something is True about
something, about someone else, that isn&rsquo;t True about you. I mean
really True. When you experience the Truth about you, it is experienced
as an insight or a revelation. You feel it. You know it to the tips of
your toes. And it&rsquo;s not knowledge. It&rsquo;s Knowing. It&rsquo;s
incontrovertible Truth. And when you have that experience, you know
it&rsquo;s True about everyone.

So:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you perceive his errors and ACCEPT them, you are accepting YOURS. If
you want to give yours over to the Holy Spirit, you must do this with
his.
</div>

You must be willing to turn your Brother&rsquo;s errors over to the Holy
Spirit.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Unless this becomes the one way in which you handle ALL errors, you
cannot understand how all errors are UNDONE. How is this different from
telling you that what you teach you learn? Your brother is as right as
you are, and if you think he is wrong you are condemning yourself.
</div>

What Your Brother Divinely Is, is as right as What You Divinely Are.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and if you think he is wrong you are condemning yourself.
</div>

Because you&rsquo;re abandoning your opportunity to be aware of What Is
Divinely True About You as well as your Brother. This is why your
Brother is so important. Until you extend the acknowledgement of Truth
to your Brother, you cannot have it for yourself. This is a fundamental
Law of Being you, might say. Not a law thought up and written down, but
an Element of the Way Things Work before anyone could have a thought to
make-up a law. You see? It&rsquo;s the Way Things Are.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
YOU cannot correct YOURSELF.
</div>

Surprise.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
YOU cannot correct YOURSELF.
</div>

That in you which would see a need for correction is that which is
misperceiving. And that which is misperceiving cannot bring about the
correction. You see?

But are you stuck? No. Because all you need to do is to be willing to
break the isolation and reach outside of your normal mental playground,
and say &ldquo;help&rdquo; and invite something else in that breaks the
isolation. And in the breaking of the isolation, a sudden shift of
perception occurs, a miracle happens, and you know the Truth. It&rsquo;s
revealed to you as experiential down to the tips of your toes. And
misperception abandons you. And no one corrected you, not even you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
YOU cannot correct YOURSELF. Is it possible, then, for you to correct
another? Yet you CAN see him truly &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you have that capacity. You might not be able to force him to
be What He Truly Is, but you have the capacity to see him truly &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; because it is possible for you to see YOURSELF truly. It is not
up to you to change him, but merely to accept him as he IS.
</div>

Another sticky sentence. How often do you hear somebody say,
&ldquo;Well, if you would just accept me as I am, everything would be
all right.&rdquo; No, it wouldn&rsquo;t.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is not up to you to change him, but merely to accept him as he IS.
</div>

To accept him as He Divinely Is. To accept him as What He Truly Is. To
accept him as the Presence of God, as God Presence-ing Himself right
there where your Brother is.

You accept him as He Is, not as he believes himself to be. You see the
difference? Because it&rsquo;s very important. And if you do not see it,
you will be as unclear and vague and messed up as the Brother who says,
&ldquo;If you will just accept me as I am, you&rsquo;ll see that
everything will be all right.&rdquo;

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
His errors do not come from the truth that is in him, and only this
truth is yours. His errors cannot change this&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning the Truth that is his and yours.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
His errors cannot change this, and can have no effect at all on the
truth in YOU. To perceive errors in anyone, and to react to them as if
they were real, is to MAKE them real to you. You will not escape paying
the price for this, not because you are being punished for it, but
because you are following the wrong guide, and will lose your way.
</div>

Another way I could say it is that you will not be paying attention to
the Way Things Work. And so you will behave at odds with the Way Things
Work. And whenever you do that, there is always dissonance, because it
is an attempt to be unnatural as though you actually had a capacity to
be unnatural.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your brother&rsquo;s errors are not of him, any more than yours are of
YOU.
</div>

Now who is this him and you? The piss-ant little ego sense of yourself?
No.

Your Brother&rsquo;s errors are not of What He Really Is, any more than
yours are of What You Really Are. And you must remember that no matter
what kind of presentation you are making to the world, or your Brother
is (or Sister is) making to the world, you haven&rsquo;t changed What
You Really Are and you haven&rsquo;t gotten rid of What You Really Are.
And you haven&rsquo;t damaged What You Really Are. And you haven&rsquo;t
irrevocably injured yourself for the rest of Eternity, so that
you&rsquo;re stuck in the problems you&rsquo;re experiencing.

Again.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your brother&rsquo;s errors are not of him, any more than yours are of
YOU. Accept his errors as real, and you have attacked YOURSELF. If you
would find your way and keep it see only truth beside you, for you walk
together. The Holy Spirit in you forgives all things in you AND &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you see the sentence didn&rsquo;t end there because the idea
isn&rsquo;t complete yet.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit in you forgives all things in you AND in your brother.
HIS errors are forgiven WITH yours.
</div>

Darn it. You&rsquo;re just not going to get back into the Kingdom of
Heaven all by yourself.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Atonement is no more separate than love.
</div>

You see? How can you Love if you&rsquo;re all alone? You can&rsquo;t be
Love if there isn&rsquo;t an object of your affection. Love cannot be an
isolated experience.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Atonement is no more separate than love. Atonement cannot be separate
because it COMES from love. ANY attempt you make to correct a brother
means that you believe correction by YOU is possible, and this can ONLY
be the arrogance of the ego.
</div>

And I promise you, and you&rsquo;ve all had the experience in one way or
another, that when you think that you&rsquo;re in a position of calling
forth correction in a Brother, you&rsquo;re met with resistance because
your attitude is insulting. It&rsquo;s a claim to be different from your
Brother, better than your Brother, perhaps stronger than your Brother,
not better, and then not even more right, but stronger. It&rsquo;s
always a position of difference.

And whenever anyone acts as though they are different from you, how does
it make your feel? Well, there&rsquo;s a long list of words.
They&rsquo;re all negative.

Correction, an &ldquo;I&rsquo;m better than you&rdquo; attitude, or
&ldquo;I know what you need&rdquo; attitude, does not arise out of
compassion, which means there&rsquo;s no Love in it. But
correction&mdash;and I&rsquo;m going to put quotes around the word
&ldquo;correction&rdquo;&mdash;&ldquo;correction&rdquo; that arises out
of Love arises out of compassion and out of an awareness of no
difference between you and your Brother. And therefore, there&rsquo;s no
arrogance.

And then, if in the absence of arrogance, your Brother finds that
you&rsquo;re seeing something in him that goes beyond what they
envisioned about themselves, something that says, &ldquo;Little plant,
look. I&rsquo;ve removed the junk heap from above you so that everything
in you that wants to stand straight and tall can, because that in you
which wants to stand straight and tall is What&rsquo;s Real, and
it&rsquo;s what needs to be embodied, and I know this.&rdquo; Whew.
That&rsquo;s compassion. It&rsquo;s Love.

And because it touches the plant, you might say, or your Brother or
Sister in the very essence of their Function of Fulfillment, gratitude
comes forth. Defenselessness comes forth. Defense melts. Why? Because
you have not been the focal point in the interaction. Your
Brother&rsquo;s essential Fulfillment of Purpose and Being was the focal
point with you, and your Brother recognizes it. You see?

So Atonement is not about separation. It&rsquo;s about exactly the
opposite.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Correction is of God, Who does not know of arrogance.
</div>

And I&rsquo;m going to add: But does know of the central essential
Meaning which He has embodied of Himself in each and every thing, and
which He Knows can take no part in experiences of limitation or
resistance. And, therefore, He&mdash;God&mdash;cannot validate
impediments and removes them.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit forgives everything BECAUSE God created everything.
</div>

[pause] Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Do not undertake HIS function or you will forget YOURS. Accept ONLY the
function of healing in time because that is what time is FOR.
</div>

You have the experience of time, don&rsquo;t you? You are not
experiencing Eternity, the Infinite Now, you might say. And this time is
available for one purpose&mdash;for you to remember Who You Are, for you
to come to a point of decision of willingness to abandon your
infatuation with your apparent capacity to define yourself and
everything else, yourself and your Brothers and Sisters, yourself and
your world, and to be from an isolated, lonely context of conscious
awareness which isn&rsquo;t your Birthright.

Time is here so that change can happen, sudden shifts of
perception&mdash;not change of circumstances, not manipulation of
situations and Brothers and Sisters. Time is here for you to let one
thing and one thing only happen&mdash;sudden shifts of perception that
allow you to remember What You Are so that you can embrace it once
again, instead of denying it and suffering from the denial.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Accept ONLY the function of healing in time because that is what time is
FOR. God GAVE you the function to create in eternity.
</div>

You see? Not time. God didn&rsquo;t give you, as part of His generous
Gifting of What He Is, the experience of time. That wasn&rsquo;t part of
His Gift. But, let&rsquo;s put it this way: The moment you said,
&ldquo;I&rsquo;d rather give definitions to everything myself. I want a
bill of divorcement, God,&rdquo; then you were immediately given enough
time to come to your senses. So use the time for what it&rsquo;s
for&mdash;to come to your senses. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God GAVE you the function to create in eternity. You do not need to
learn this, but you DO need to learn to WANT this, and for this all
learning was made.
</div>

You see? Knowing is the State of Being. Learning is what you&rsquo;re
faced with when you&rsquo;ve said, &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t want to know the
Truth. I want to make the truth up myself.&rdquo; And all of a sudden,
you now have time to do it. You have time to wake up again. And you have
an experience called learning, which is not native to your Being. In
other words, you have the opportunity to remember the Truth About
Yourself, and that&rsquo;s what learning is. It is remembering Who You
Are, coupled with your embracing it and activating it, and not being in
a constant state of denial of it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You do not need to learn this, but you DO need to learn to WANT this,
and for this all learning was made.
</div>

In other words, all learning was made for the purpose of bringing you to
the point of wanting to wake up.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s good use of an ability which you do not
NEED, but which you HAVE made.
</div>

You don&rsquo;t need time and you don&rsquo;t need learning, but you
made it, and so the Holy Spirit, that which is nothing more than your
right Mind, uses it well on behalf of your reawakening.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Give it to Him! You do not know how to use it.
</div>

You don&rsquo;t know how to use time.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He will teach you how to see yourself without condemnation by learning
how to look on EVERYTHING without it.
</div>

Ah! We&rsquo;re back to that same subject that we cannot escape. You
can&rsquo;t do anything by yourself. You&rsquo;ve got to include your
Brother.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He will teach you how to see yourself without condemnation by &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what? Looking on yourself without condemnation? No.

By looking&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; by learning how to look on EVERYTHING without it.
</div>

It just isn&rsquo;t going to be the case that you&rsquo;re going to
finally stand in the Kingdom of Heaven looking back at all your crummy
brothers and sisters who are so awful and saying, &ldquo;Tsk. One day
you&rsquo;ll make it. I made it. Tsk.&rdquo; You see? So if you had the
illusion that you could do it whether anybody else did it or not, and
that you could get ahead of everyone else, or that you recognized
something Divine in you and you determined that that was a truth and
that that made you a little bit different from everyone else and did put
you a few steps ahead, it&rsquo;s not the Truth. It&rsquo;s not the Way
It Works.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; will teach you how to see yourself without condemnation by
learning how to look on EVERYTHING without it. Condemnation will then
not be real to you, and all your errors WILL be forgiven.
</div>

How could condemnation not be real for you, but in your mind, still be
real about everyone else?

&ldquo;My God! You mean I have to swallow the whole elephant in one
bite? I mean can&rsquo;t I just learn how not to condemn myself? You
mean that in order for me to stop condemning myself, I have to stop
condemning everything?&rdquo; Oh, tsk, tsk, tsk, poor babies. What a
horrible thing to have to do to somehow have a slip of the mind where
you&rsquo;ve forgotten to condemn.

Is it really that valuable a mental commodity to you? Not really. But
you thought it was valuable because you thought it was essential to your
survival, because you&rsquo;re looking at the Kingdom of Heaven through
separate, lonely, unanchored eyes in which everything is not dependable,
and nothing is anchored in a fundamental Source that is Principled and
Intelligent. And so you have thought that condemnation was one of the
essential tools that you had to use, or that you have to use, in order
to control things into some semblance of intelligent order.

I&rsquo;m going to tell you something. Love harmonizes naturally,
without coercion. Love brings order because it harmonizes everything.

The question is, &ldquo;What do I do with all these bastards in the
meantime until I manage to do this? How do I protect myself until I know
I don&rsquo;t need protection any more?&rdquo; The ego is sly and
tricky. It&rsquo;s asking the question because if it can get you to try
to answer that question, you&rsquo;ll never get to the point of wanting
to experience the Truth about your Brother, because you&rsquo;ll be busy
getting the tools of your defense together to defend you in the meantime
until you swallow the whole elephant, until you can bring yourself to
abandon condemnation.

You had better be willing to consider the possibility that what you see
as a call for correction, and what you see as an appropriate response to
a call for correction, is something the Holy Spirit isn&rsquo;t seeing
at all. The call for correction &hellip; what&rsquo;s needing to be
corrected is not what the Holy Spirit is seeing, even though the Holy
Spirit sees a call for correction. And you had better come to a point
where you recognize that you have no way of knowing specifically what
you would need to be ready to defend yourself against without the help
of the clarity of the Holy Spirit, so that you aren&rsquo;t taken in by
the invitation to deal with these bastards until you can manage to let
go of condemnation.

In the meantime, you want to abandon &ldquo;a meantime.&rdquo; Because I
guarantee you, the response that will contribute to correction is
nothing you will be able to perceive until you&rsquo;re willing to let
go of condemnation and ask of the Father, or the Holy Spirit, to have
revealed to you experientially the Truth about your Brother, the Truth
that never stopped being True&mdash;the Christ that stands there no
matter how he, or she, is behaving&mdash;God Presence-ing Himself right
there where your Brother and Sister are, in spite of how they&rsquo;re
behaving, in spite of how they&rsquo;re misperceiving themselves, in
spite of how you&rsquo;re misperceiving them.

And remember, this is what you have time for. &ldquo;Oh, I don&rsquo;t
have time!&rdquo; That&rsquo;s the only thing you have time for.
That&rsquo;s why it was gifted to you, so that you might do this one
thing that undoes your decision to be an orphan, your decision to have
gotten a divorce from your Father and caused you to forget your Identity
because you abandoned That Which gave you Meaning.

I can go on and on. And I will at another time.

I know. I&rsquo;m not moving fast enough for you.

How do we get to it? Well, [laughing] you get to it by not having a
meantime. You get to it by doing it now. You get to it by not taking the
bait that says, &ldquo;Get your defenses ready so you can be protected
until you can let go of condemnation.&rdquo;

Okay. I said I could go on and on.

If this is what you&rsquo;ve been given time for, if correction is the
purpose of time, then the means of accomplishing the correction is
yours, and you are capable of implementing it. It&rsquo;s not a task
that has been given to you that you&rsquo;re not quite able to engage.

Remember, you at this very moment are the full-fledged
Christ&mdash;whatever ultimate sense of the word &ldquo;Christ&rdquo;
that you have been carrying with you, whatever fullest definition of the
Christ that you have made-up&mdash;is What You Are right now. To come
back into your right Mind, for your Sanity to return, is not only
totally possible, it&rsquo;s inevitable. Why? Because you will have
learned how to be the Christ? No. Because you will remember that
that&rsquo;s Who You&rsquo;ve Always Been. The capacity is present right
now.

So, if you&rsquo;ve been given time in order to come to your senses, and
if you&rsquo;ve been given something called &ldquo;a capacity to
learn&rdquo; for this purpose, you have all been provided with all of
the essentials to accomplish it. You&rsquo;ve been given this help. Why?
Because you have the capacity. Why? Because you never stopped being What
You Divinely Are.

Do you see that even what you would call your ignorance is like a bowl
that you are held in, and everything about the bowl stands in support
and nurturing of your coming back into your right Mind? Everything that
exists, even in your ignorance, is in Harmony with the Way Things Work.
And the Way Things Work is nothing less than the Will of God expressing
Being. So you&rsquo;re not lost. And there&rsquo;s not a strenuous
journey here ahead of you. And you&rsquo;re not being asked to do
anything that isn&rsquo;t utterly natural to you to do.

With this I will stop.

During this coming week, watch your mind, observe it, and when you find
yourself beginning to indulge in any form of condemnation, notice it and
halt it. Why? Because you know that no matter how delicious the
condemnation might feel to you, you are not listening to the Holy
Spirit. If you are not listening to the Holy Spirit, you have yourself
blocked off from what? That which is nothing more than your right Mind.
Now, is that the way you want to exist in your day, with that kind of a
split, unplugged from the Juice of your Divine Being? No. That&rsquo;s
why you&rsquo;ll stop. You see? Because when it&rsquo;s happening,
you&rsquo;re not listening to, and you are incapable of hearing, the
Holy Spirit, that which is your right Mind.

Okay. I said I would end there, and I will.

And I look forward to more good times with you next week. Okay. I love
you.

[^1]: T9 Introduction

