---
title: Jan 23, 2005
ref: "T9.2 Atonement as a Lesson in Sharing"
alink: "/acim/text/09/chap0902/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

It may seem as though I&rsquo;m too repetitious. It may seem as though
I&rsquo;m saying the same thing over and over again in different ways.
And even though I say it in many different ways, it&rsquo;s still
incomprehensible. Why? Why would I say the same thing over and over
again? Well, one reason is to convey to you that the answer is not
complicated. There aren&rsquo;t ten thousand compartments to the answer.
There aren&rsquo;t ten thousand things for you to learn in order to wake
up.

I&rsquo;ve said many times, you are neither behind the Point of
Perfection, nor advancing toward it; you&rsquo;re at that Point and you
must understand yourself therefrom. I keep telling you that right now
you are the Christ, right now you are the Presence of God. What am I
doing when I keeppresenting you with this idea? I&rsquo;m presenting you
with a different way of perceiving yourself, a different way of
considering yourself. I don&rsquo;t come here each week and scold you
for how poorly you did the week before. I do not confront you with your
stupidity, or your insanity, or your ignorance. I do not focus in on
what you would call &ldquo;the problem.&rdquo; I&rsquo;m always focusing
in on the answer, which is something quite apart from most of the things
that occupy your time during the week and your concerns. I remind you
that the Ultimate of You is present in every moment.

Now if you think that I am speaking to the ignorant one that you think
you are, you will delay your progress, because when I say you&rsquo;re
neither behind the Point of Perfection nor advancing toward it, I&rsquo;m
not addressing, as the term has been applied to Paul, the
&ldquo;bumbling oaf&rdquo; in you. I&rsquo;m addressing the Christ that
you are. In doing that, I substantiate It, instead of substantiating the
bumbling oaf.

Most of the time as the week goes by in between Sunday evenings, your
attention is more focused on the bumbling oaf that you are, and what a
stupid asshole you are, and how ignorant you are, and how poorly
you&rsquo;re doing. And in addition to that, you apply all of these
criteria to everyone you work with and everyone you run into.

It&rsquo;s simple. You see what you&rsquo;re looking with. Whatever your
frame of mind is colors everything you see, causes everything to be seen
in that context.

If you know that you are a conniving bastard or bitch, if you know that
you are dishonest if you need to be in order to get something good done
or something bad done, it is impossible for you to look at your Brother
or Sister and not see the very same thing there.

Looking at everything the way you&rsquo;ve always looked at everything is
not going to cause anyone to wake up. It&rsquo;s not going to facilitate
a sudden shift of perception, is it? It&rsquo;s going to insure that
everything stays the same. What we&rsquo;re talking about here all the
way through, but especially in this chapter called, &ldquo;The
Correction of Error,&rdquo; what we&rsquo;re talking about is the fact
that in order for your experience to change, you&rsquo;ve got to be
looking at it from a new vantage point. You&rsquo;ve got to start
looking at it in a new way. And at the bottom line that means
you&rsquo;ve got to stop looking at everything alone, as though
you&rsquo;re an isolated observer amongst a bunch of other isolated
observers. You really have to wish to look at everything with the Holy
Spirit, or with the Mind of God. And you don&rsquo;t know what it will
look like, and you don&rsquo;t even know for sure how to cause that to
happen, but it&rsquo;s being laid out for you.

What I want to pinpoint here before we go back into the book is that
before anything is going to change, you are required to be willing to
look at everything with new eyes, with eyes refreshed by something
beyond your memory, refreshed by information not gathered from the past.
You are addicted to your memories, and you are addicted to your pet
theories, and you&rsquo;re addicted to what you&rsquo;ve determined
everything to be, because it&rsquo;s what you think keeps you sane,
it&rsquo;s what you think keeps you grounded,when actually what it does
is it keeps you bound in a tiny frame of reference that absolutely
disallows for you to experience Reality As It Is, which is Harmonious,
Beautiful, Divine&mdash;something far beyond your most fantastic
imaginations.

The first step has to be taken by you, not everyone out there. And the
first step that has to be taken by you is a desire to see
God&mdash;Infinite Good, indivisible and undivided&mdash;and therefore
unconflicted Good in your experience. You don&rsquo;t know how to do
that so you have to ask for help. And the help is available to you, but
you&rsquo;ve got to reach for it first before you start attending to
fixing everything up. Otherwise, you will correct everything based upon
the firm definitions that you&rsquo;ve already established and
constantly employ.

Now, we&rsquo;ve been recently talking about the fact that in order for
you to wake up, in order for you to have a sudden shift of perception,
you must have a reason for inviting it in. And your reason for inviting
it in must be something other than yourself. You&rsquo;re all very used
to being self-centered, taking care of yourself, covering your ass,
insuring that you will have the best experience you can, et cetera, et
cetera, et cetera.

We&rsquo;ve been discussing the fact that you must have an object of
your affection and that you must give what you would have. You must
give, in order to make your own That Which has already been set in place
as yours, because you&rsquo;re neither behind the Point of Perfection,
nor advancing toward it. You see?

This means that you have to dare to take a radical position. You
don&rsquo;t mind at all if I say to you as a truth, as the Truth, that
you are neither behindthe Point of Perfection, nor advancing toward it,
that you are at that point and you must understand yourself therefrom,
instead of understanding yourself from your memory banks and the
definitions you&rsquo;ve created for yourself. Now I&rsquo;m taking the
radical stand that you need to take. You need to take that stand with
your Brothers and Sisters. And no matter what they&rsquo;re doing, and
how your mindsets are interpreting their behavior, and no matter what
their mindsets are causing their behavior to be, they are neither behind
the Point of Perfection, nor advancing toward it; they are at that
Point, and you must understand them therefrom. You must be willing to
take that radical step, that radical point of view, because if you
don&rsquo;t, you will continue to be stuck with your best definition of
them, which is a very poor definition of them. And you won&rsquo;t be
able to make your own, the Truth about you that I&rsquo;m telling you.

Problem-solving as it&rsquo;s generally practiced involves, first of
all, identifying the problem, and then identifying the source of the
problem. And the source of the problem is always something out there.
And it&rsquo;s always someone, or some mechanical flaw. And then, the
correction of it is, whether it&rsquo;s someone or a thing, is handled
mechanically. You mechanically manipulate. You retrain, you recondition
the human being. But this human being that you&rsquo;re in the practice
of reconditioning is being looked upon as an object, a weak link in the
chain of command, or a weak link in the process of getting a job done.
You see? &ldquo;We&rsquo;ve got to do something with Henrietta.
She&rsquo;s the weak link.&rdquo; You see? Very mechanical. And so you
sit Henrietta down, and you lecture her, and you tell her how it must be
and how she must look at it if she&rsquo;s going to be an effective part
of the flow of whatever the product is that she&rsquo;s a part of
manufacturing. You see?

And so, through law, or forceful manipulative training, you make each
other be robots without any sense of the fact that here is Soul, here is
Life, here is Love, embodied. The individual who&rsquo;s just a cog in
the wheel must learn to conform with the organization or the society,
and to hell with how they feel about it. In fact, tell them, as part of
their brainwashing, that they will feel good about themselves if they
behave as a nice obedient cog in the wheel.

Do you see what I&rsquo;m saying? What I&rsquo;m saying is that each one
of you is God Expressing Himself right where you are. Each one of you
not only has a Divine Gift to give, each one of you is a Divine Gift to
All, to the Whole. And you like to hear me say that about you. And your
Brothers and Sisters need to hear you say it about them. And if you
can&rsquo;t say it about them, they still need to feel the fact that
that is the manner in which you are consciously embracing them, because
that is the radical stand that will initiate change, healing.

Let&rsquo;s go into the book.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*Atonement as a Lesson in* &hellip;[^1]
</div>

&hellip; what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; *Sharing*
</div>

Sharing&mdash;that&rsquo;s the opposite of isolation, that&rsquo;s the
opposite of uninvolvement.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Atonement is for all because it is the way to UNDO the belief that
anything is for you alone.
</div>

You see, it&rsquo;s the undoing of aloneness that is your salvation.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To forgive is to OVERLOOK. Look, then, BEYOND error, and do not let your
perception rest UPON it, for you will believe what your perception
holds.
</div>

You see, I look at you and say to you, &ldquo;You&rsquo;re neither
behind the Point of Perfection, nor advancing toward it; you&rsquo;re at
that Point. I understand you therefrom, and you must understand yourself
therefrom. I&rsquo;m overlooking all the things you did this last week,
or all the things you thought you did. I&rsquo;m overlooking the mindset
that keeps you bound to tininess. And I am reflecting back to you what
I&rsquo;m seeing. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Accept as true only what your brother IS&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that&rsquo;s what I&rsquo;m doing with you. That&rsquo;s what
your Brother needs you to do with him, or your Sister with her.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Accept as true only what your brother IS, if you would know yourself.
Perceive what he is NOT, and you cannot know what you are BECAUSE you
see him falsely.
</div>

And again, if you see anything falsely, you see everything falsely. And
it&rsquo;s because you have agreed to embody a false picture of
yourself.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Remember always that your identity is shared, and that its sharing IS
its reality.
</div>

So if you&rsquo;re going to share, make sure that you share only the
best, that you share only the Truth, because you either lock yourself
into suffering, or real freedom, depending on what you choose to share.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have a part to play in the Atonement, but the plan of the Atonement
IS beyond you. You do not know how to overlook errors, or you would not
make them. It would merely be further error to think either that you do
NOT make them, or that you can correct them WITHOUT a Guide to
correction. And if you do not FOLLOW this Guide, your errors will NOT be
corrected. The plan is not yours BECAUSE of your limited ideas of what
you are.
</div>

Your definition of yourself.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This limitation is where ALL errors arise.
</div>

And I would add: And is where they&rsquo;re all experienced.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The way to undo them, therefore, is not OF you but FOR you.
</div>

Well, if they&rsquo;re not of you and they&rsquo;re not of your
creation, there must be something more than you in this universe. And
there&rsquo;s the rub, because you&rsquo;ve got to reach out to
something beyond yourself which takes away your so-called position of
authority, and of your only chance to make something of yourself so that
you can be proud of yourself and so that you can feel that you&rsquo;re
respectable. You&rsquo;re familiar with my song and dance about all of
that. And if you&rsquo;re familiar with it, it&rsquo;s becoming part of
you. It&rsquo;s part of your understanding of yourselves, and so
it&rsquo;s not as foreign as it used to be.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Atonement is a lesson in sharing, which is given you because YOU
HAVE FORGOTTEN HOW TO DO IT. The Holy Spirit merely reminds you of what
is your natural ability.
</div>

You see, the Holy Spirit doesn&rsquo;t say, &ldquo;Oh, you goofed again!
Oops, you goofed again! You stupid idiot!&rdquo; No. The Holy Spirit
does what I do&mdash;merely reminds you of what is your natural ability.
The Holy Spirit reminds you that you&rsquo;re neither behind the Point
of Perfection, nor advancing toward it. So abandon this trek, this hope
of becoming something Ultimate, this advance toward Home. You see?

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
By reinterpreting the ability to attack, which you DID make, into the
ability to SHARE, He &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; translates what you have made into what God created.
</div>

Now what does that mean? Translates the one you made-up and that
you&rsquo;re calling yourself, into the One That You Are That God
Created and which has been present as the only Real Thing about you all
along. The Holy Spirit translates what you have made into What God
Created.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you would accomplish this THROUGH Him, you cannot look on your
abilities through the eyes of the ego, or you will judge them as IT
does. All their harmfulness lies in its judgment. All their helpfulness
lies in the judgment of the Holy Spirit.

The ego, too, has a plan of forgiveness because you are ASKING for one,
though not of the right teacher.
</div>

And I just want you to think for a moment as to how often, when somebody
tells you of a problem they&rsquo;re having, how often you, [snap of the
fingers] before they even get their sentence finished, have an answer
for them. That&rsquo;s how quick the ego has a plan for their salvation.
I want you to get the feel for that, because you all know how quickly
you can have a retort to anything, even a helpful one, even though this
helpful one is full of judgment and unkindness when you give the answer
to this poor one.

All along, what I&rsquo;m encouraging you to do and what the Course is
expounding on, is to hesitate a moment before you let the ego speak, and
draw upon another Source consciously, in effect demonstrating the fact
that you don&rsquo;t want to reply, that you don&rsquo;t want to rely on
memory or agreed-upon definitions, even agreed-upon answers; that you
want to draw upon a Source outside the level of the problem and outside
the established interpretations that cause the problem to be called a
problem. What do I mean by that? Very simply, if you&rsquo;re at the
table in the western world and you&rsquo;ve eaten and you let out a huge
burp, it&rsquo;s considered to be a problem, where in other countries it
is considered to be an expression of gratitude and appreciation for the
wonderful meal, and it&rsquo;s not a problem at all.

You must learn to hesitate, step back, and reach into the unknown,
literally. You must reach into that place where you don&rsquo;t know the
answer, and ask to know what to say and what to do before you act.

Again.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego, too, has a plan of forgiveness because you are ASKING for one,
though not of the right teacher. The ego&rsquo;s plan, of course, MAKES
NO SENSE and WILL NOT WORK. By following it you will merely place
yourself in an impossible situation, to which the ego ALWAYS leads you.
</div>

That place is called, for lack of better words, the human condition. The
ego leads you there and helps you re-substantiate it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego&rsquo;s plan is to have you see error clearly FIRST, and THEN
overlook it. Yet how can you overlook what you have made real? By seeing
it clearly you HAVE made it real and CANNOT overlook it.
</div>

In a Gathering, whenever any of you ask a question, it&rsquo;s usually
with regard to a problem you&rsquo;re having. And you give a description
of the problem. You give a description of the situation and how
it&rsquo;s impacting you. While you&rsquo;re doing that, Paul is sitting
here and I&rsquo;m going to say that he has learned not to pay too much
attention to what you&rsquo;re saying, not to let you and what
you&rsquo;re saying become the focus of his attention. And so all of the
time you are asking your question and describing the problem, his
attention is on me. He is hearing you, but he is more attentive to me
and what my response will be when I respond. In other words, he
overlooks your problem. He looks beyond it to me. And in so doing, that
which would [finger snap] respond with an off-the-cuff remark or
response, isn&rsquo;t energized in him. And so his presence as an ego,
or his presence as a personality, does not get confirmed, or enlarged,
or activated. And as a result, he is able to let me respond. This is
what you need to be willing to do for your Brothers and Sisters. This is
what overlooking error means.

Paul has learned that if he listens to you, and if he cares about you,
he will begin to be affected by your plight. He will join you in its
awfulness. And when he does that, it makes it very difficult for him to
hear me. And the same thing applies to every one of you when
you&rsquo;re dealing with your Brothers and Sisters. Very often caring
about your Brothers and Sisters means that you are willing to let their
problem be made real for you, and thus you lose the vantage point in
which clarity beyond the problem can find entrance into the situation,
and thus transformation and healing is blocked.

Again.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet how can you overlook what you have made real? By seeing it clearly
you HAVE made it real and CANNOT overlook it.
</div>

You also make it harder for yourself because at some point you cannot
bear the burden of empathetically caring about your Brother and Sister
and feeling their hurt. And so, at some point, you finally have to make
the conscious choice to step back&mdash;which should have been in the
very first moment where you&rsquo;re supposed to hesitate before you
respond&mdash;then you have to step back, and the stepping back is more
difficult because your empathetic feelings of sadness and hurt for them
must be released so that you might get back into your Peace, into that
clear place where you&rsquo;re able to access the Truth. And
that&rsquo;s harder work to do after the fact than it is to hesitate at
the moment of the presentation of a problem and step back then. And
you&rsquo;ve also delayed potential healing for your Brother and Sister.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
By seeing it clearly you HAVE made it real and CANNOT overlook it.

This is where the ego is forced to appeal to &ldquo;mysteries,&rdquo;
and begins to insist that you must accept the meaningless to save
yourself. Many have tried to do this in my name, forgetting that my
words make PERFECT sense because they come from God. They are as
sensible now as they ever were because they speak of ideas which are
eternal.
</div>

You see, the ego appeals to mysteries, not to What Is True, not to what
is clearly enlightening, but to magic. It says, &ldquo;Oh, yes. Your
problem is real, but if you do this and you do that, you can save
yourself all by yourself. Oh, your problem is real, but there&rsquo;s a
way for you to learn to live with it without suffering.&rdquo; These are
the mysteries. This is the magic. You see?

Never at any point does the ego say to you, &ldquo;Why, you are neither
behind the Point of Perfection, nor advancing toward it; you are there.
And the problem you&rsquo;re experiencing is invalid. It&rsquo;s an
imagination. And you can be free of it, because it isn&rsquo;t real.
Shall we explore its unreality together?&rdquo; No. The ego never starts
with you as What You Are. It starts with who you think you are at the
point when you&rsquo;re describing your dilemma.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Forgiveness that is learned of me does NOT use fear to UNDO fear. Nor
does it make real the UNREAL and then destroy it.
</div>

You see? It doesn&rsquo;t make the unreal real and then destroy it. It
says there is no &ldquo;you&rdquo; in actual existence to be suffering,
because you are the Direct Expression of God right now and never fell
from your high estate. And I&rsquo;m going to talk to you till I&rsquo;m
blue in the face, till you&rsquo;re blue in the face, reminding you of
this fact so that you might release the confidence that you have in the
definition you&rsquo;ve given yourself that you are just a mortal, and
that you are not Divine, and you couldn&rsquo;t possibly be like Jesus
the Christ, at least not for a long time.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Forgiveness through the Holy Spirit lies simply in looking beyond error
from the beginning&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; before that immediate ego-response that spouts forth the
ego&rsquo;s plan for your Brother&rsquo;s salvation &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and thus KEEPING it unreal for you.
</div>

When Paul listens to you asking me a question, he stays out of the way.
And your problem does not become real for him. And my answer can become
real for you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Do not let any belief in its realness enter your minds AT ALL, or you
will also believe that YOU must undo what you have made in order to be
forgiven.
</div>

Again, how do you not let any belief in its realness enter your minds at
all? By being anchored in a different Source of information, if I may
put it that way; a Source of information different from your
Brother&rsquo;s ego-sense of what he is at the moment, and even yours.

Why? Because &hellip; continuing:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What has no effect does not exist, and to the Holy Spirit the effects of
error are TOTALLY nonexistent.
</div>

You&rsquo;re not behind the Point of Perfection with corrections needing
to be made. You&rsquo;re not advancing toward it. You are there. And
therefore, what you seem to be most definitely suffering from is not
True, has no existence, and can have no real effect. But the
effectlessness of it, will not register with you until you are drawing
upon a Source different from the ego that formed the condition
you&rsquo;re suffering from. And is that difficult or impossible? Not if
that Source is nothing more than your right Mind, which is the Holy
Spirit, which is your Divinity held in trust while you fool around with
ego perceptions, and which never went anywhere.

Referring to the Holy Spirit:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
By steadily and consistently cancelling out ALL its effects, EVERYWHERE
and in ALL respects, He teaches &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; who? You &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; that the ego does not exist&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; as a fact&mdash;I&rsquo;m adding that.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and PROVES it.
</div>

Now how does It prove it? By helping you to learn to disregard all of
your conditioned responses, by helping you disregard all of the
definitions you have made-up, by helping you arrive at a point where you
are not valuing the definitions.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Follow His &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; teaching in forgiveness, then, because forgiveness IS His
function, and He knows how to fulfill it perfectly. That is what we
meant when we once said that miracles are NATURAL, and when they do NOT
occur something has gone wrong.

Miracles are merely the sign of your willingness to follow the Holy
Spirit&rsquo;s plan of salvation, in recognition of the fact that you do
NOT know what it is.
</div>

You see, what keeps you bound in suffering is the fact that you think
you know what the answers are. And so you never reach outside of your
comfy, cozy self-satisfaction, even though you are self-satisfied in the
midst of misery.

Referring to the Holy Spirit:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
His work is NOT your function&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and let&rsquo;s be clear here. The Holy Spirit&rsquo;s work is
not the function of who you think you are at this moment. The Holy
Spirit is your right Mind. The Holy Spirit is What You Divinely Are. The
Holy Spirit&rsquo;s Function is to remind you of this so significantly
that you will abandon the idea that you&rsquo;re something
else&mdash;something that you have made-up&mdash;that you are what you
believe you are and what you&rsquo;ve been taught you are. But that
which has been taught things that aren&rsquo;t True, cannot perform the
Function of reminding you of Who You Really Are. So, as you are waking
up, the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s Function is not the function of the
&ldquo;you&rdquo; that you think you are. That&rsquo;s what that means.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
His work is NOT your function&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; now I&rsquo;ve said this in another way before. If it could be
conceived that it&rsquo;s your function to wake yourself up, you would
not be required to reach out beyond yourself at all, and that would
constitute eternal damnation because what you think you are can&rsquo;t
get you out of your ignorance. That which is causing your ignorance
cannot get you out of it.

So while you are in the process of abandoning your self-satisfaction,
abandoning your sense of worthiness that you have acquired at your own
hand, while you are letting go of that, you&rsquo;ve got to reach
outside of any part of you that thinks it, by its hand, can accomplish
anything valuable. You have to abandon your faith in who and what you
think you are, because who and what you think you are is pure
imagination. It&rsquo;s not Reality. And you&rsquo;re wanting to come
back into, I&rsquo;m going to say, your full-fledged right Mind, your
Sanity.

Another way of saying it is your state of insanity cannot be the means
of re-establishing your Sanity. And so, while you are not seeing
clearly, you must abandon little tiny self-reliance and ask for help.
Ask the Holy Spirit, ask that which is nothing more than your right
Mind, which serves God, not the ego. If you don&rsquo;t arrive at a
point where you will reach out beyond your best understanding and your
best definitions, you will not find Sanity returning. You will not find
change/transformation happening. You will continue to be as stuck as you
are.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
His work &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is NOT your function, and unless you accept this, you cannot
learn what YOUR function is. The confusion of functions is so typical of
the ego that you should be quite familiar with it by now. The ego
believes that ALL functions belong to it, even though it has no idea
what they ARE. This is more than mere confusion. It is a particularly
dangerous combination of grandiosity AND confusion which makes it likely
that the ego will attack anyone and anything for no reason at all.
</div>

There is such self-confidence that it believes that anything it does
will be right.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is exactly what the ego DOES. It is TOTALLY unpredictable in its
responses because it has no idea of WHAT it perceives.
</div>

You look at the Kingdom of Heaven and you say it&rsquo;s planet Earth.
You have no idea What It Is that you&rsquo;re perceiving. All
you&rsquo;re perceiving is the definition you have overlaid upon
Reality, the Kingdom of Heaven.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If one has no idea of what is happening, how appropriately can you
EXPECT him to react? You might still ask yourself, regardless of how you
can ACCOUNT for the reactions, whether they place the ego in a very
sound position as the guide for YOURS.
</div>

In other words, the guide for your reactions.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It seems absurd to have to emphasize repeatedly that the ego&rsquo;s
qualifications as a guide are singularly unfortunate, and that it is a
remarkably poor choice as a teacher of salvation. Yet this question,
ridiculous as it seems, is really the crucial issue in the whole
separation fantasy. Anyone who elects a totally insane guide MUST be
totally insane himself.

It is not true &hellip;
</div>

Listen to this.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is not true that you do not know the guide is insane. YOU know it
because I know it, and you HAVE judged it by the same standard as I
have.
</div>

Those two sentences equal this other one: You are neither behind the
Point of Perfection, nor advancing toward it; you are at that Point and
must understand yourself therefrom.

You see? You know it. You know the guide is insane because I know it.
We&rsquo;re talking from Home here. I am talking with the Divine One
That You Are, not the one you think you are.

I am extending to you by these sentences the gift that you need to
extend to your Brother, at least in your mind. Instead of saying,
&ldquo;That idiot doesn&rsquo;t know anything,&rdquo; you say, &ldquo;he
knows the Truth.&rdquo; He knows it because I know it. Because the
Ultimate Truth is already True, and always has been True, and it&rsquo;s
never been changed by any imagination that my Brother indulged in, or
any imagination that I ever indulged in. And I stand here in front of my
Brother who&rsquo;s behaving at odds with that, and I&rsquo;m
acknowledging that he knows it because I know it. We are Brothers with
the same Parent, and no imagination can change What We Are. And so I
claim for my Brother the Ultimate Truth about him right now, no matter
how he&rsquo;s behaving.

And much of the time my claiming it for him is done silently. I relish
the occasions like now where I can verbalize it, say it out loud so you
can hear it.

Now here&rsquo;s the good news.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; who and what you think you are. Who and what you have
determined yourself to be in the imagination.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego literally lives on borrowed time&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; why &ldquo;borrowed time&rdquo;? Because there is no [laughing]
real time. It lives on borrowed time &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and its days are numbered. Do not fear the Last Judgment, but
welcome it and do not wait, for the ego&rsquo;s time is borrowed from
YOUR eternity.
</div>

Oh. Uh oh. It&rsquo;s been costing you something. This dallying with the
ego, which has created the sense of time, has been borrowing from your
Eternity and your experience of your Eternality. It&rsquo;s been an
unfair deal, and you are the one who&rsquo;s coming up on the short end.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Do not fear the Last Judgment, but welcome it and do not wait, for the
ego&rsquo;s time is borrowed from YOUR eternity.
</div>

Don&rsquo;t wait for your Eternity to be returned to you.

And what&rsquo;s the Last Judgment? The Last Judgment is, &ldquo;This is
my beloved Son and Daughter in whom I am well pleased.&rdquo; Wow! That
isn&rsquo;t exactly what you thought judgment meant. The Last Judgment
is the Judgment of Truth About You extended to you in a way that you can
recognize and hear and feel and let in. Don&rsquo;t wait for it.
Don&rsquo;t hold it off.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This IS the Second Coming, which was made FOR you as the First was
created. The Second Coming is merely the return of SENSE. Can this
POSSIBLY be fearful?
</div>

So how do you set into motion the return of sense? By consciously and
conscientiously choosing to hesitate before you respond off the top of
your head, and reaching to a Source other than your memory, or your
Brother&rsquo;s and Sister&rsquo;s story about their dilemmas, or your
Brother&rsquo;s and Sister&rsquo;s behavior. You hesitate, as Paul does
before every Gathering, and you join with a Source, for lack of better
words, completely other than yourself. Why? Because part of breaking the
isolation is an act of actually leaning into and joining with something
other than yourself, even though you have been told that ultimately what
you will be leaning into is your Essential Self.

Your Essential Self will not feel like you as you begin to reach out to
It. Let it be that way, else you will not have anything to abandon
yourself into, nor will you have any justification for abandoning your
acquired definitions, meanings, and your commitment to them, which is
what keeps you insane.

Many of you wish you could be a healer. I will tell you that every
single one of you will have to become a healer, because you cannot wake
up without being involved with another. And the moment you genuinely
dare to become involved with your Brother from the standpoint of his
being neither behind the Point of Perfection, nor advancing toward it,
and as a result of your willingness to understand him from that Point of
Perfection, you will heal. You will take the essential step of breaking
the isolation in a double way. You will break the isolation between you
and your Brother or Sister, and you will do it by interacting with your
Brother or Sister by virtue of having broken your isolation from the
Holy Spirit, that which is nothing more than your right Mind, and
therefore your connection with your Father Who gives you your Identity.

Monotonous repetition. But if we move too fast and get past your
remembrance that there has to be a point of hesitation, a moment of
hesitation before you respond, so that you can make a different choice
of the Source of what you&rsquo;re going to say, you will move on to
making things happen without hesitating, and switching channels, so to
speak, abandoning your ego-conditioning in favor of listening into the
unknown-to-you-at-the moment, and being with your Brother and Sister
from there.

I am not moving too slow and I&rsquo;m not moving too fast. And I will
not move beyond the point of learning until it&rsquo;s learned. And so
I&rsquo;m asking you to trust my teaching methods. And if I
haven&rsquo;t yet given you something to give your attention to in a
broader scope that you wish I would, be willing to abandon your
impatience. Be willing to abandon the radical idea that you know what
you need to learn and when. And be with me as we move together in
uncovering the fact that you&rsquo;re at the Point of Perfection.

I love you all. And I&rsquo;m not worried for your sakes. It&rsquo;s
not imperative for you to be moving faster than you are, because error
has no effects. False imagination has no effects.

I love you and I look forward to being with you next week.

[^1]: T9.2 Atonement as a Lesson in Sharing

