---
title: Jan 30, 2005
ref: "T9.2 Atonement as a Lesson in Sharing"
alink: "/acim/text/09/chap0902/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

We&rsquo;ll go right into the book. And I&rsquo;m going to backup a
couple of sentences for context.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Do not fear the Last Judgment, but welcome it and do not wait, for the
ego&rsquo;s time is borrowed from YOUR eternity. This IS the Second
Coming, which was made FOR you as the First was created. The Second
Coming is merely the return of SENSE. [^1]
</div>

A return where? In your mind. In you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Can this POSSIBLY be fearful?

What can be fearful but fantasy, and no-one turns to fantasy unless he
despairs of finding satisfaction in reality. Yet it is certain that he
will NEVER find satisfaction in fantasy, so that his only hope is to
CHANGE HIS MIND ABOUT REALITY.
</div>

So utterly simple. I didn&rsquo;t say to think about changing your mind.
It doesn&rsquo;t say to find a way to reason it out so that you can
change your mind. As the now well-know phrase goes, &ldquo;Just do
it!&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Only if the decision that reality is fearful is WRONG can God be right.
And I assure you that God IS right. Be glad, then, that you HAVE been
wrong, but this was only because you did not know who you were.
</div>

You see? You forgot Who You Were when you got your divorce from the
Father, and now you think you are what you think you are, instead of
What You Really Are.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Had you remembered, you could no more have been wrong than God can. The
impossible can happen ONLY in fantasy. When you search for reality in
fantasies you will not find it. The symbols of fantasy are of the ego,
and of THESE you will find many. But do not look for meaning in them.
</div>

Something happens to you in your day. Something goes wrong. You say,
&ldquo;What was the meaning of that?&rdquo; Don&rsquo;t you? &ldquo;What
significance does that have for me in my learning process?&rdquo; And
then you think about it, and you imagine about it, and you can come up
with some pretty fantastic imaginations of what the meaning must be,
when the fact is that it is meaningless from beginning to end. And if
you do succeed in coming up with an explanation of its meaning for you,
you have a meaninglessness defining something that was meaningless. In
other words, the definition that you come up with is part of the
illusion as well, is part of what has no meaning, even though you seem
to have created meaning for it that actually gives the bad experience
that you had some reality for you.

The definition you give, or the explanation you give, to the bad
experience and its so-called value for you is a symbol of fantasy.
You&rsquo;ve created a symbol about something that wasn&rsquo;t real in
the first place. And the symbol is as unreal as the event that gave rise
to your creating a symbol for it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The symbols of fantasy are of the ego, and of THESE you will find many.
But do not look for meaning in them. They have no more meaning than the
fantasies into which they are woven.

Fairy tales can be pleasant or fearful, pretty or ugly, but no-one calls
them TRUE. Children may believe them, and so, for a while, the tales ARE
true for them. Yet when reality dawns the fantasies are gone. REALITY
has not gone in the meanwhile. The Second Coming is the AWARENESS of
reality, not its RETURN.
</div>

Again, you are neither behind the Point of Perfection, nor advancing
toward it, even though you think you are at one or the other. You are at
that Point and must understand yourself therefrom.

Again.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Second Coming is the AWARENESS of reality, not its RETURN. Behold,
my children, reality is here. It belongs to you and me and God, and is
perfectly satisfying to all of us. ONLY this awareness heals, because it
is the awareness of truth.
</div>

What is fantasy? Fantasy is the word used to describe the state of being
asleep, the state of not being conscious of Who You Are, of What You
Are. Fantasy is you believing the definitions you have made-up about
everything, which means it is you being unconscious of What Everything
Really Is.

And most all of you exist in that state because you don&rsquo;t hesitate
enough. When you look at something, you don&rsquo;t hesitate a moment to
say, &ldquo;What is really there?&rdquo; You don&rsquo;t hesitate long
enough to say, &ldquo;Father, or Holy Spirit, reveal to me what the Real
Meaning of this that I&rsquo;m looking at is. Reveal to me What God Is
Being there from God&rsquo;s Perspective.&rdquo; You don&rsquo;t
hesitate enough to shift gears. And that&rsquo;s the key.

Another way of saying it is you don&rsquo;t hesitate long enough to
shift teachers. And there are only two teachers&mdash;the Voice for
Truth, and the voice for fear or the voice of the ego. And let me remind
you, you&rsquo;re always listening to one or the other of the teachers.

There is no &ldquo;you&rdquo; that&rsquo;s able to look at things by
yourself. As I&rsquo;ve said before, you&rsquo;re always the puppet of
something. Either you&rsquo;re the unresistant Presence of God
Expressing Himself, or you&rsquo;re the unresistant presence of the
definitions you and everyone else have made-up, either privately or
together. You&rsquo;re either being the expression of memory, or you are
letting yourself be the Expression of That Which Is Forever New, which
is God Moving, God Being, which is Creation. There is no middle ground.
You&rsquo;re never independent. You&rsquo;re never not the puppet of a
master.

So, if you don&rsquo;t want to be bound in fantasy, you&rsquo;re going
to have to hesitate a moment before you come to a conclusion about what
you&rsquo;re looking at or seeing to say, to make sure that you are
choosing the right puppet master. Forget about cutting the strings from
the puppeteer. That&rsquo;s not the goal of your existence. It&rsquo;s
the goal of your ego, but it&rsquo;s not the goal of your Being. Accept
it&mdash;you are a puppet. You are not self-existent. There is no choice
about it. The sooner you accept the fact that one way or the other, you
are a puppet, you will get down to the business of choosing who your
puppet master will be. And the sooner you make that choice, the more
rapidly you will come back to your senses. The Second Coming is merely
the return of sense.

When you think you have the option to be independent and you fight for
your independence&mdash;&ldquo;look no strings&rdquo;&mdash;you are
fighting for the right to continue to be ignorant about What You Are.
You are fighting for the right to continue to remain ignorant that the
very Source and Fundamental of your Being is God Himself.

Now, how insulting can that really be to abandon a sense of independent
selfhood that absolutely inhibits you from knowing Who You Are,
disallows you from experiencing the Meaning, with a capital
&ldquo;M&rdquo;, the significant awesome Divine Meaning of your Being,
your Presence, your being Conscious? It should be insulting to you that
the suggestion is made that you should hold on to the state of ignorance
in which you cannot possibly feel your value and your worth. It
shouldn&rsquo;t be insulting to yield authority to the Father, when the
result of yielding authority for your existence to the Father and
yielding your apparent capacity to think for yourself to the Flow of the
Father&rsquo;s Conscious Awareness of being the Movement of
Creation&mdash;that should not be insulting. That should be something
you reach for, with vigor even.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Behold, my children, reality is here. It belongs to you and me and God,
and &hellip;
</div>

Listen to this.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is perfectly satisfying to all of us.
</div>

Have any of you recently experienced a state of being purely satisfied?
But that&rsquo;s your Birthright. This apparent right to declare
independence and self-existence is a hollow suggestion that I encourage
you not to validate any longer. It gets you exactly nothing. What it
gets you is the absence of your direct experience of your Worth, the
direct experience of your Validity, the direct experience of your
Divinity, the direct experience of your Meaning, or we could say,
Meaningfulness.

Continuing.

The next section is entitled:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*The Unhealed Healer*
</div>

Mind you, you&rsquo;re the puppet of one of two masters. There
aren&rsquo;t any more to choose from. And there is no other state of
being to experience. If you&rsquo;ve chosen the ego as your master, then
the ego&rsquo;s plan for forgiveness is what the ego will present to you
as your thought.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego&rsquo;s plan for forgiveness is far more widely used than
God&rsquo;s. This is because it is undertaken by unhealed healers,
&hellip;
</div>

What&rsquo;s an unhealed healer? It&rsquo;s someone who&rsquo;s dreaming
a dream. It&rsquo;s someone who has forgotten What He Is, and is trying
to do the best he can in this state of amnesia. An unhealed healer is
someone who isn&rsquo;t hesitating a moment to say, &ldquo;Father, or
Holy Spirit, what&rsquo;s the Truth here? What&rsquo;s the Truth about
this, or that, or the other thing?&rdquo; The unhealed healer is the one
who doesn&rsquo;t hesitate and ask, and then speaks up on the basis of
his or her own acquired definitions of what is true, and then attempts
to heal his Brother, or Sister, based upon that.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego&rsquo;s plan for forgiveness is far more widely used than
God&rsquo;s. This is because it is undertaken by unhealed healers, and
is therefore of the ego. Let us consider the unhealed healer more
carefully now. By definition, he is trying to GIVE what he has not
RECEIVED.
</div>

Help based upon past experience, which means based upon ignorance built
upon in the absence of that one knowing What He Divinely Is, cannot be
helpful.

I have pointed out that it is necessary to have an object of your
affection, that you have what you give, and what you give, you get to
keep. And so you have an object of your affection, but you don&rsquo;t
try to initiate the affection from your memory, or your tiny personal
sense of yourself. You ask the Holy Spirit, &ldquo;What is the Truth
here? What needs to be known here?&rdquo; And you let yourself be
infilled with it so that it overflows and extends to your
Brother&mdash;the one who needs healing.

If you haven&rsquo;t hesitated a moment, stepped back, and said,
&ldquo;Father, help me know what needs to be known so that I may embody
it and give it expression,&rdquo; if you haven&rsquo;t done that, but
you still try to help, you are an ignorant one trying to help another
out of his ignorance. And that&rsquo;s not what I&rsquo;ve been talking
about.

By definition, the unhealed healer is trying to give what he has not
received.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If he is a theologian, he may begin with the premise, &ldquo;I am a
miserable sinner and so are you.&rdquo;
</div>

And so as not to get too intellectual here, it says, &ldquo;If he is a
theologian.&rdquo; Do you think there&rsquo;s such a thing as a
theologian? I mean a real something out there called a theologian. Or is
a theologian someone real out there that you have applied your
definition of a theologian to?

Does anyone know what a theologian is? Somebody will say, &ldquo;Oh, of
course, I know what a theologian is.&rdquo; And if each of you said,
&ldquo;I know what a theologian is,&rdquo; and you shared what it was,
each of you would have not an identical response because a theologian,
to you, is whatever that word has come to mean in your mind.

And you want to know something else? There is a theologian in you. Oh,
you can talk theology. You don&rsquo;t say, &ldquo;I&rsquo;m a
theologian,&rdquo; but you can think like theologians think.

An unhealed healer, by definition, is trying to give what he has not
received.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If he is a theologian&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and all of you are. That&rsquo;s what I&rsquo;m trying to point
out. All of you are theologians, and your definition of a theologian
applies to you, as well as to everyone else you pin the tail on.

When you talk or think about theologians, you aren&rsquo;t seeing the
individual there. Is that clear? You have your definitions and you apply
them, like a tail on the donkey, and so you don&rsquo;t see each other.
So understand that when it says, &ldquo;If he is a theologian,&rdquo;
this is speaking about you. Don&rsquo;t sit there in your spiritual
advanced state saying, &ldquo;Yeah. The theologians. Argh! You know
about theologians. Yeah.&rdquo; [small laugh] All the meaning there is
to the word &ldquo;theologian&rdquo; is the meaning you have come to
accept. And it applies equally to you. So now we&rsquo;re not talking
about &ldquo;those theologians.&rdquo; We&rsquo;re talking about every
one of you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If he is a theologian&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; if you are a theologian.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; he &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; may begin with the premise, &ldquo;I am a miserable sinner and
so are you.&rdquo;
</div>

You see? [small laugh] In one way or another, all of you say this about
each other.

Whew!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If he is a psychotherapist, he is more likely to start with the equally
incredible idea that HE really believes in attack and so does the
patient, but it does not matter in either case.
</div>

How many of you practice a little psychotherapy from time to time on
your Brothers and Sisters, and even on yourselves, without ever
hesitating and stepping back to say, &ldquo;In spite of how I would
psychotherapize this situation, or me, what is the Truth here? What is
the Reality that&rsquo;s going on outside the box of all of the
definitions I have come up with that I apply to others, as well as
myself?&rdquo; And don&rsquo;t ever think that what you&rsquo;re
applying to others, you&rsquo;re not applying to yourselves.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
We have repeatedly stated that beliefs of the ego cannot be shared, and
this is WHY they are unreal. How, then, can &ldquo;uncovering&rdquo;
them MAKE them real? Every healer who searches fantasies for truth MUST
be unhealed because he does not KNOW where to look for truth, and
therefore does not have the answer to the problem of healing.
</div>

Somebody&rsquo;s behaving badly, and the idea is expressed that they are
behaving badly because of something that happened in their childhood.
They may even feel that they are behaving badly because they are angry
about the injustices that occurred in their childhood. That&rsquo;s not
where the problem is.

The problem is that the one behaving badly has forgotten What She Is,
has forgotten What He Is&mdash;the Presence of God Presence-ing Himself
right there. And that one thinks that he&rsquo;s an independent presence
having nothing to do with God, having no such Source, having, shall I
say, no such credentials that state the awesome Divine Meaning of his or
her Being.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is an advantage to bringing nightmares into awareness, but ONLY to
teach that they are not real, and that ANYTHING they contain is
meaningless. The unhealed healer cannot do this because he does not
BELIEVE it.
</div>

Doesn&rsquo;t believe what? Doesn&rsquo;t believe that the definitions
and meanings that he&rsquo;s applying to everything aren&rsquo;t true.
Doesn&rsquo;t believe that there&rsquo;s Meaning, with a capital
&ldquo;M&rdquo;, beyond the meanings he is applying to himself and
everything.

An unhealed healer could be called an unconscious director of the state
of consciousness. It&rsquo;s absurd, and if you see it in its absurdity,
you will be able to more easily opt for asking for help and saying,
&ldquo;Father, what is Your Perspective here? What is the Truth
here?&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
All unhealed healers &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; all unconscious directors of things &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; follow the ego&rsquo;s plan for forgiveness in one form or
another. If they are theologians&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; or if you are in your theologian mode &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; they are likely to condemn themselves, teach condemnation, and
advocate a very fearful solution.
</div>

Here&rsquo;s a fearful solution.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Projecting condemnation onto God, they make Him appear retaliative and
fear His retribution.
</div>

Now that idea is an imagination that can be called a symbol. A
retaliative, jealous God&mdash;that&rsquo;s a symbol. It&rsquo;s a
familiar symbol that almost everyone carries with them.

And there is a fear of God. Why? Because someone&mdash;here it says a
theologian&mdash;someone experiencing fear, because truly he no longer
remembers What He Is, has shared his fearful thought with another and
found agreement. And then because it&rsquo;s too difficult to own
responsibility for the experience and say, &ldquo;I am creating this
experience by refusing to pay attention to and be conscious of my
Source,&rdquo; that unwillingness to be honest causes the blame to be
projected out there on God&mdash;it&rsquo;s as simple as
that&mdash;making Him appear retaliative, and justification for fear of
His (God&rsquo;s) retribution.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What they have done is merely to IDENTIFY with the ego, and by
perceiving clearly what IT does, condemn themselves because of this
profound confusion. It is understandable that there has been a revolt
against this concept, but to revolt AGAINST it is still to BELIEVE in
it.
</div>

You don&rsquo;t revolt against something that doesn&rsquo;t exist, do
you? The only reason you revolt against something is because you think
it exists and is real and has to be done away with.

The solution isn&rsquo;t a matter of manipulating your memories. It
isn&rsquo;t a matter of manipulating the dangerous world, the conflicted
world you see because you&rsquo;re in a state of inner conflict. The
answer lies in leaving those things aside and saying, &ldquo;Father,
help,&rdquo; stepping outside the limits of your definitions and the
self meanings you have provided yourself, and letting something else in,
breaking the isolation. That&rsquo;s what &ldquo;hesitating a moment
before coming to conclusions&rdquo; means.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is understandable that there has been a revolt against this concept,
but to revolt AGAINST it is still to BELIEVE in it. The FORM of the
revolt, then, is different, but NOT the content.
</div>

You see, it doesn&rsquo;t matter how many forms of correction you try to
bring to that which calls for correction. You can try to deal with
disease medically. You can try to deal with it spiritually through
prayer. You can try to deal with it naturopathically. But you see that
no matter what the form of the correction is that you pick, you are
still operating at the level of being an independent see-er, not having
hesitated and stepped back. And so, no matter what form you are using,
one is not better than the other; they are all equally meaningless.

Because the only meaningful step to take is to break the isolation and
say, &ldquo;Father, share with me Your Perspective, because I have been
told that it is my perspective by Birthright, and I haven&rsquo;t been
experiencing it. And my not experiencing it, I am told, has caused me to
see everything erroneously, and is responsible for the ever-present
anxiety that I feel, the ever-present uneasiness that I feel, the
ever-present vulnerability that I feel. And I don&rsquo;t want to feel
it anymore. I&rsquo;m willing to consider the possibility that this
information that&rsquo;s given to me is correct. And so I will do the
thing I don&rsquo;t understand. I will reach out into that which seems
to be empty. I will reach out for You whom I&rsquo;ve never had, as far
as I know, a direct experience of. Or if I did, they were, as far as
I&rsquo;m concerned, flukes, rare events, rare favors, which I feel
tremendously blessed by, but they&rsquo;re nothing that I can feel
confidently as an ever-present source. But I&rsquo;m going to reach out
as though it&rsquo;s there. Please help!&rdquo; And then you shut up and
you make room for the response.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The newer forms of the ego&rsquo;s plan are as unhelpful as the older
ones, because form does not matter to the Holy Spirit, and therefore
does not matter at all.
</div>

What doesn&rsquo;t matter to the Holy Spirit doesn&rsquo;t matter at
all. The only thing that matters to the Holy Spirit is What Is Real. And
that matters!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
According to the newer forms of the ego&rsquo;s plan, the therapist
&hellip;
</div>

You.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; interprets the ego&rsquo;s symbols in the nightmare&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; don&rsquo;t you do that? &ldquo;Wonder what meaning this bad
experience has for me. Wonder what the meaning is of that person
who&rsquo;s behaving badly has for me.&rdquo; So in your ignorant state
and your ignorant experience of the Kingdom of Heaven, you interpret the
symbols that are occurring in your nightmare, not realizing that that
which is having the nightmare doesn&rsquo;t exist either, really.

So:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
According to the newer forms of the ego&rsquo;s plan, the therapist
interprets the ego&rsquo;s symbols in the nightmare, and then uses them
to prove that the NIGHTMARE is real. Having MADE it real, he then
attempts to dispel its effects by depreciating the importance OF THE
DREAMER. This WOULD be a healing approach if the dreamer were properly
identified as unreal.
</div>

And I will add: As well.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet if the dreamer is equated with the MIND, the mind&rsquo;s corrective
power through the Holy Spirit is DENIED.
</div>

In other words, if the definition of yourself, that you have provided
yourself, is equated with your mind so that it ceases to be a definition
that you&rsquo;re holding, but is your very experience of yourself, you
are sucked totally into the illusion. You&rsquo;re believing the dream
totally.

And:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; if the dreamer is equated with the MIND, the mind&rsquo;s
corrective power through the Holy Spirit is DENIED.
</div>

Why? Because there will be no occasion for you to reach beyond.

You are Mind. You are Consciousness. You are that Conscious Awareness
which constitutes the Experience of Being Infinitely, the Conscious
Experience of Creation. That is What You Are.

No definition has to be applied to it. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m a good
guy.&rdquo; &ldquo;I&rsquo;m a sleazy girl.&rdquo; &ldquo;I&rsquo;m a
wonderful parent, a wonderful mother.&rdquo; &ldquo;I&rsquo;m a poor
provider for my family.&rdquo; No. You aren&rsquo;t any of the
definitions or meanings that you&rsquo;ve applied to yourself.  And when
you realize that you are Conscious Awareness, Pure Mind, that that is
What You Are, you will be able to see the definitions or meanings that
you&rsquo;ve applied to yourself as something you are taunting yourself
with, teasing yourselves with. But they are ideas floating around which
you are taking hold of and having fun applying to yourself. You
won&rsquo;t be fooled into thinking that you are the definition. And
then the Mind&rsquo;s corrective power through the Holy Spirit is
affirmed, and change can occur. Healing can occur. Enlightenment can
spontaneously happen.

I am keeping what could seem complex simple here. Just let what
I&rsquo;m saying abide with you.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is noteworthy that this is a contradiction even in the ego&rsquo;s
terms, and one which it usually DOES note, even in its confusion. If the
way to counteract fear is to REDUCE the importance of the fearer, how
can this build ego STRENGTH? These perfectly self-evident
inconsistencies account for why, except in certain stylized verbal
accounts, no-one can EXPLAIN what happens in psychotherapy. Nothing real
DOES. Nothing real has happened to the unhealed healer, and he learns
from his own teaching.

BECAUSE His ego is involved, it always attempts to gain some support
from the situation. Seeking to get something for HIMSELF the unhealed
healer does not know how to GIVE, and consequently cannot share. He
cannot correct because he is not working CORRECTIVELY.
</div>

The only way to work correctively is not to stand in the position of an
independent corrector, an independent healer, an independent entity with
certain talents, certain gifts. Because as long as it is a given that he
is an independent entity, he doesn&rsquo;t stand in the position of
receipt of his Birthright from the Father, which when given away, the
healer gets to keep. That constitutes not a healed healer, but a healer.

An unhealed healer and a healed healer both are nonsense. Because an
unhealed healer and a healed healer would still have to be describing an
independent entity.

The unhealed healer &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; believes that it is up to him to teach the patient what is
REAL, but he does not know it himself.
</div>

What is important about what we&rsquo;re reading about tonight is the
fact that it is meant to promote the awareness that you are never
anything more than a puppet, and therefore a puppet of one of the only
two teachers they [there] are. You have no capacity to accomplish
anything on your own, and you never have. And this is the insulting
Truth that each of you has to accept and get past so that you abandon
trying to be independent, and you are moved to reach out and break your
self-imposed exile from Home, and from the Father, from your Source.

The unhealed healer is a goner. The unhealed healer can&rsquo;t be
improved. The unhealed healer can&rsquo;t be changed into a healed
healer.

If you want to be a healer, you&rsquo;ve got to find something in you
that cares about your Brother. And then you ask God to fill you with
that which meets the human need in your Brother&rsquo;s experience from
the Father&rsquo;s Perspective, and not based upon any interpretations
you independently are applying to your Brother and Sister, and which
lead you to conclusions as to what the correction should be. If you do
that, you are filled with too much false confidence that will block you
from hearing whatever might contradict it. And so you will defend your
independent position, even though you think you&rsquo;re asking God for
revelation, the revealing of the Truth that will heal.

I am indeed attempting to wipeout your confidence, or encourage you to
invalidate the confidence you have in your personal private capacity to
do anything. Because until that confidence is negated, you will feel no
need to reach out, you will feel no need to break the isolation. And
thus, your Birthright will remain hidden from you. And it&rsquo;s not
your Birthright for it to be hidden from you.

 The unhealed healer &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; believes that it is up to him to teach the patient what is
REAL, but he does not know it himself. What, then, SHOULD happen? When
God said, &ldquo;Let there be light&rdquo; there WAS light. Can you find
light by analyzing darkness as the psychotherapist does, or like the
theologian by acknowledging darkness in yourself and looking for a
distant light to remove it while EMPHASIZING the distance?

Healing is NOT mysterious.
</div>

Healing is not mysterious.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Nothing will occur unless you understand it since light IS
understanding. A &ldquo;miserable sinner&rdquo; cannot be healed without
magic, nor can an &ldquo;unimportant mind&rdquo; esteem itself without
magic. Both forms of the ego&rsquo;s approach, then, must arrive at an
impasse, &hellip;
</div>

In other words, they can&rsquo;t succeed. You will come to a dead end.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the characteristic &ldquo;impossible situation&rdquo; to which
the ego ALWAYS leads.
</div>

And of course, that&rsquo;s where the statement, &ldquo;man&rsquo;s
extremity is God&rsquo;s opportunity,&rdquo; makes sense, because
it&rsquo;s when you get to the impasse that the opportunity is present
to give up the arrogant and persistent attempt to be independent.
It&rsquo;s the place where one can give up on a path that will not work
and say finally, &ldquo;Help! I need help. Everything I have tried has
not worked. I give up. I will not rely upon anything I ever believed.
I&rsquo;m reaching out for Your Perspective, Father. I&rsquo;m reaching
out for a Perspective that&rsquo;s nothing like what I created for
myself. Help.&rdquo;

Now, continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It CAN be helpful to point out to a patient where he is heading, but the
point is lost unless he can change his direction. The therapist cannot
do this for him, but he also cannot do this for HIMSELF.

The ONLY meaningful contribution the therapist can make is to present an
example of one whose direction has been changed FOR him&hellip;
</div>

Not by him; for him.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and who no longer believes in nightmares of ANY kind. The light
in HIS mind will therefore ANSWER the questioner, who must decide with
God that there IS light because he SEES it. And by HIS acknowledgment
the THERAPIST knows it is there.
</div>

In other words, when the patient sees it, it confirms what the therapist
was seeing, and the therapist finds that it has been made his as well.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
That is how perception ultimately is translated into knowledge. The
miracle worker begins by &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what? . .

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; PERCEIVING light&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; not perceiving the problem.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The miracle worker begins by PERCEIVING light&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; why? Because he didn&rsquo;t believe what the patient was
saying, or his Brother or Sister was saying, or the presentation that
was being made. Before coming to a conclusion, the quote
&ldquo;therapist&rdquo; unquote hesitated a moment and said, &ldquo;What
needs to be known here? What is the Truth from God&rsquo;s Perspective
that needs to be known here?&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The miracle worker begins by PERCEIVING light, and translates HIS
perception into sureness by continually extending it and accepting its
acknowledgment.
</div>

Again.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The miracle worker begins by PERCEIVING light, and translates HIS
perception into sureness &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; now what that means there in &ldquo;translates HIS perception
into sureness,&rdquo; it means makes it his own by giving it away
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; by continually extending it and accepting its acknowledgment.
</div>

It&rsquo;s acknowledgement where? In the Brother, or the client. In the
one to whom the extension is being made.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Its EFFECTS assure him it is there.
</div>

It what? The Truth. The meaningfulness of what was being extended.

And thus in the Brother&rsquo;s or Sister&rsquo;s or client&rsquo;s
acknowledgement of it, reception of it, it demonstrates the Movement of
God that has moved through the therapist. And the therapist knows that
the Movement of God is True and Real and Actual, and so he gets to keep
what he gave because in giving it and in its receipt, it proved
experientially the actuality of it. And it wasn&rsquo;t just a concept
being provided out of memory by an independent separated entity.

Now, listen to this, and I&rsquo;m speaking to the therapist in each one
of you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The therapist does not heal; HE LETS HEALING BE.
</div>

He allows it to happen by getting out of the way as an independent or
unhealed healer, and lets God shine through by invitation. And in the
shining through and the receipt of what has shone through, the healer
makes his own, or gets to keep, what was given.

And the apparent healer and the apparent healed are blessed in what? In
greater self-appreciation and arrogance? No, in greater awesome
awareness that God is All There Is to them, and they are What They Are
by Grace&mdash;not by having earned it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The therapist does not heal; HE LETS HEALING BE. He can point to
darkness, but he cannot bring light of HIMSELF, for light is not of him.
Yet, being FOR him, it &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Light &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; must also be for his patient. The Holy Spirit is the ONLY
Therapist.
</div>

Holy Spirit, that which is nothing more than your right Mind, is the
only therapist.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He makes healing perfectly clear in ANY situation in which he is the
Guide.
</div>

Well, the only situation wherein He can be the Guide is when somebody
hesitates a moment before coming to a conclusion or a determination, and
says, &ldquo;I, of myself, can do nothing. Not my will, but Thine be
done. What is Your Will?&rdquo; And then he shuts up, and fearlessly
pays attention, listens. And because he cares enough about his Brother,
he listens for something that he anticipates will be of pure value and
of such unconflicted meaning that the only possible effect it could have
would be the dissolving of confusion, the entrance of transformational
clarity.

The Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; makes healing perfectly clear in ANY situation in which he is
the Guide. The human therapist can only let Him &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; FULFILL His function.
</div>

You see? The unhealed healer thinks healing is a function he is supposed
to perform. But there is no unhealed or healed healer. There is no
independent entity. There is no entity that is not a puppet at the end
of strings that something else is holding.

And so, as simple as it is, none of you wants to hear it. Your
salvation, your fulfillment, everything you are looking for that is Good
and True about you, will only be able to be found when you yield to That
Which is responsible for your existence. And you are not responsible for
your existence. There is a God, and you are where God Is Presence-ing
Himself, and thereby Presence-ing Himself as All That Is Holy, all that
is truly and really Meaningful, all that is truly Invulnerable, and all
that could ever possibly be called Respectable. The fulfillment you want
that you think you will lose when you give up your arrogant attempt to
be independent, all that you will give up, all that you will lose when
you give up your arrogant attempt to be independent, will be the
amnesia, will be the unconsciousness of all that is Beautiful and Good
and True and Meaningful about you. You will be left with the very thing
you have been looking for by trying so damned hard to be so damned good
that you can prove your worth.

Again.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The human therapist can only let Him &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; FULFILL His function. He needs no help for this.
</div>

Except [small laugh] to have you get out of the way, to have you stop
blocking the movement of that which is nothing more than your right
Mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He will tell you EXACTLY what to do to help ANYONE &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; to help anyone &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; He sends to you for help, and will speak to him through you,
&hellip;
</div>

&ldquo;Oh, there we go again. [sigh] I&rsquo;m just supposed to be the
mouthpiece for Truth? That doesn&rsquo;t help me be anything in my own
right. That just gives all the glory to the Holy Spirit.&rdquo; You see,
there&rsquo;s your ignorance. The Holy Spirit is nothing more than you,
than your right Mind. But until this that wants to stand independently
as a creditable and valuable and valid entity &hellip;

(PAUL: I&rsquo;m sorry I lost it.)

That which wants to stand as an independent, valuable and valid entity
that&rsquo;s concerned about not getting the credit, is that which
isn&rsquo;t actual. It isn&rsquo;t Real. And the concern it expresses,
which seems to be you expressing your concern, keeps you distracted from
being able to make the choice for the Holy Spirit that would return your
Sanity to you by returning you in your Whole Mind as the Holy Spirit.
And that&rsquo;s the simple way it works.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He will tell you EXACTLY what to do to help ANYONE He sends to you for
help, and will speak to him through you, if you do not INTERFERE.
Remember that you ARE choosing a guide for helping&hellip;
</div>

You see? You&rsquo;re never doing it all by yourself. You are always
choosing a guide for helping, and it&rsquo;s one of the two voices.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Remember that you ARE choosing a guide for helping, and the WRONG choice
will NOT help. But remember also that the RIGHT one WILL. Trust Him, for
help is His function, and He is of God.

As you awaken other minds to the Holy Spirit through Him, and NOT
yourself&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; not who you think you are. Not your definition of yourself
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you will understand that you are not obeying the laws of this
world, but that the laws you are obeying WORK. &ldquo;The good is what
works&rdquo; is a sound though insufficient statement. ONLY the good CAN
work. Nothing else works at all. This course is a guide to behavior.
Being a very direct and a very simple learning situation, it provides
the Guide Who TELLS you &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; Tells you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; what to do. If you do it, you will SEE that it works. Its
RESULTS are more convincing than its words. They will convince you that
the words are true.
</div>

And you will be able to keep, to have what you have given.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you do it, you will SEE that it works. Its RESULTS are more
convincing than its words. They will convince you that the words are
true. By following the right Guide you will learn the simplest of all
lessons:

&ldquo;By their fruits ye shall know them, and THEY shall know
THEMSELVES.&rdquo;
</div>

By the fruits of their sharing, you will know them. And by the receipt
of the fruits of their sharing, they will have what they have given.
They will know themselves more clearly.

It is not bad news to find out that you do not have the capacity to
accomplish anything. You don&rsquo;t exist independently, having
independent capacities. The sooner you dare to feel helpless, the sooner
you will have the courage [laughing] which will probably be experienced
as an overwhelming fear that you&rsquo;ve got to do something new, or
things are really going to get terrible.

You won&rsquo;t have the confidence to reach out, to break the
isolation, and to say, &ldquo;Help! I give up control. I would like to
move through my life, I would like to experience my life in harmony with
the Intent of the Mover of Life. And I realize I am not the Mover of
Life. I thought I could be. And I have tried and tried. God, how
I&rsquo;ve tried! And I&rsquo;m realizing that it doesn&rsquo;t work.
I&rsquo;m realizing that I&rsquo;m getting tired of persisting in doing
what doesn&rsquo;t work. I want to be in harmony with the Mover of Life.
Mover, wherever you are, Mover, whoever you are, talk to me. Illuminate
me. Show me the Truth.&rdquo;

That&rsquo;s how you move out of the realm of the unhealed or healed
healer, and become a transformational Presence, because God in you is
finding expression through you, and you are remembering your Birthright,
and you are remembering What You Are. You have no better gift to give
your Brother, and thereby receive yourself.

Mind you, this isn&rsquo;t something to think about. It&rsquo;s
something to do. Whether it&rsquo;s the poinsettia when you first see
it, or your Brother or Sister when you first see him or her, hesitate.
You&rsquo;ve got to do that hesitation before you blindly accept what
your memory provides you with, or the meanings you have applied and
created out of imagination.

You&rsquo;ve got to hesitate. Why? Because your Brother is worth it?
Yes, but the real reason for doing it is that you don&rsquo;t deserve to
be experiencing one more moment of misperceiving Reality and yourself.
It&rsquo;s not your Birthright, and God isn&rsquo;t holding it away from
you. And it makes no sense to be unconscious of the Truth.

So use every encounter, use every situation this week, even as when you
walk your dog and you see a weed on the side of the road, or another
tree cut down, or how noisy the road down below is getting, take each
one of those things and hesitate before you come to that damned
conclusion, and step back and say, &ldquo;Father, give me fresh eyes to
see. Let me see things here through Your Eyes.&rdquo; And then
don&rsquo;t forget that what you&rsquo;re asking for is something that
is going to change the way you&rsquo;re experiencing yourself and your
world, that will constitute a blessing, you wouldn&rsquo;t have wanted
to miss. Don&rsquo;t forget that, so that you are free to let go of the
grousing and grumbling about the very thing that caused you to have to
hesitate and ask God, &ldquo;What&rsquo;s going on?&rdquo; You
don&rsquo;t want the grousing and grumbling to continue. You want the
presence of curiosity to replace it, because the answer will be so
transformational, and will be such a blessing for you, that you
wouldn&rsquo;t have wanted to miss it.

Okay. Enough said.

I love you, and I look forward to being with you next week.

Okay.

[^1]: T9.2 Atonement as a Lesson in Sharing

