---
title: Feb 13, 2005
ref: "T9.3 The Unhealed Healer"
alink: "/acim/text/09/chap0903/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

Last week I reminded all of you of the good news that you&rsquo;re all
puppets serving one of two teachers, and there&rsquo;s no other choice.
And I also made it clear to you that it was my purpose, as it is every
time I&rsquo;m with you, but more pointedly last week, last time we were
together, that my purpose was to undermine your self-confidence. You
see, what you consider to be your greatest strengths are actually your
greatest weaknesses, because whatever self-confidence you personally
have in your personal private capacity to function well and to be an
effective presence, whatever strengths you count yourself as having,
reinforce your determination to do things by yourself. &ldquo;To do
things by yourself&rdquo; means to be doing it solo, separate and apart,
authoritative in your own right.

And yet, it&rsquo;s this determination and the enacting of that
determination that keeps you from having the curiosity, or even the
experience of need necessary to ask the Holy Spirit for help. And what
is the Holy Spirit? Nothing more than your right Mind. So if
you&rsquo;re determined not to connect with your right Mind, it means
you&rsquo;re determined to be unconscious of What You Are and What
Everything Is. You&rsquo;re determined to define everything yourself and
live according to your make-believe world. Now, how can that be
described as anything but a weakness? To be unconscious of What You Are
and What Everything Is, is weakness.

We talked about the fact that the key is, before you respond to
anything, hesitate and ask of the Holy Spirit, &ldquo;What is the
Meaning of this? What is appropriate here?&rdquo; You see? You break the
isolation, and you break the arrogant self-determination. And you leave
yourself open for an experience other than the ones you&rsquo;ve had in
the past, and a perspective different from what you say you have enjoyed
in the past, and you lay the groundwork for, or you provide the
environment in which a shift of perception can occur. A shift of
perception being what? A miracle. That&rsquo;s what you&rsquo;re all
aiming for, or you wouldn&rsquo;t be with me each week.

But it&rsquo;s easy to forget. The habit of independence, the habit of
self-confidence is strong. And not only that, you have incorporated into
your make-believe self and world the idea that it&rsquo;s your purpose
to improve your skills, to improve your capacity to function
independently well. It is your purpose to do that to secure your
credibility, your integrity, your respectability. You see? So it&rsquo;s
a hard habit to let go of because you&rsquo;re so conditioned to think
that the loss of your self-confidence and the loss of your capacity to
behave independently will constitute a loss of integrity, a loss of all
that&rsquo;s meaningful and important about existing for you. So
it&rsquo;s not an easy habit to break, but it is a habit which must be
broken if the Ultimate Good that all of you want is to become your
Conscious Experience.

You cannot use that which is a denial of All That Is True About You as a
means of getting to the experience of All That Is True About You. And so
I&rsquo;m here to keep reminding you that the path you&rsquo;ve been on
is one that denies the possibility of arriving at the destination you
have made-up to be at the end of this path, so that you will do what? So
that you&rsquo;ll hesitate. Maybe you won&rsquo;t take the next step on
that path taking you to the place that you didn&rsquo;t want to go, the
path that won&rsquo;t take you where you do want to go, so that you can
reconnoiter. That&rsquo;s what you&rsquo;re doing when you hesitate a
moment and you say, &ldquo;Father,&rdquo; or you say, &ldquo;Holy
Spirit, what&rsquo;s the Truth here?&rdquo; You&rsquo;re reconnoitering.
You are putting yourself in a position where a change of direction can
occur. And if you&rsquo;re considering the possibility of a change of
direction, you are weakening the commitment you&rsquo;ve had to reach
the destination you thought you could reach by determinedly moving
forward on this road, this path, that won&rsquo;t take you where you
want to go.

Now, I am with you at every single moment. You don&rsquo;t listen for me
at every single moment, but I&rsquo;m there. Even though you don&rsquo;t
listen for me at every moment, you, through a constructive use of your
memory, can remember to hesitate as often as possible during the course
of each day, and express a little curiosity to see outside of the box,
to see outside of the make-believe world you&rsquo;ve made-up, for
alternatives that you can&rsquo;t possibly come up with through the use
of your imagination, for alternatives that will free you from the
suffering which is inseparable from your being on a road that leads to
what you don&rsquo;t want, even though you believe it is going to lead
you to the Ultimate.

So, the need is to hesitate and inquire. And why do you inquire? So that
you can have a clearer perception yourself, unlike your poor neighbor?
So that you can be clearer than somebody else? No. You ask because you
have chosen to have an object of your affection, whether it is a tree,
or a plant, or a Brother, or a Sister. You have chosen to have an object
of your affection&mdash;something or someone to whom you are willing to
give an acknowledgement of their Divinity, an acknowledgement of What
They Essentially Are, separate and apart from what you have come to
believe they are. And why do you do this? Because until you make a gift
of the acknowledgement of What Is True about a thing, it doesn&rsquo;t
become yours.

This is the exact opposite of the way the world works. I&rsquo;m not
talking about the world that you see when you look out. I&rsquo;m
talking about the world that all of you and everyone else has made-up in
your minds that you are serving. And in the process of serving that
world of concepts, you are missing each other and you are not
recognizing the Kingdom of Heaven that you&rsquo;re right in the middle
of.

So, when you turn to the Holy Spirit to break the isolation, the reason
you do it is to become aware of the Truth about your world or your
fellowman, so that you might extend your new awareness of What It Is, so
that you might be undefended against what you&rsquo;ve made-up about
your world or your Brothers and Sisters, and actually connect with
them&mdash;Who They Really Are.

So, you break the isolation in two ways. You break it by abandoning your
self-confidence and asking of Someone or Something that has the larger
picture, to uncover the larger picture to you, to show it to you. So
you&rsquo;ve broken the isolation in that way. And then, the fact that
that&rsquo;s not all of it, comes into play. You ask to know the Truth
so that you may extend the acknowledgement of What Is True to an object
of your affection, or we could say, an object of your attention. And
there you&rsquo;re breaking the isolation as well.

You see, it&rsquo;s very simple. When you have imaginations about your
Brothers and Sisters, when you&rsquo;ve determined who and what they are
and what kind of person they are, you have isolated yourself from Who
They Really Are. You&rsquo;ve made yourself very private. So when
you&rsquo;re willing to see Who They Really Are, you&rsquo;re abandoning
and weakening that attempt to be autonomous and private as well.

Now, all of this that I&rsquo;ve been talking about comes under the
heading of healing&mdash;the correction of false perception&mdash;the
being healed of misunderstanding everything and behaving as though your
misunderstanding is true understanding, thus causing you to behave in a
way totally inconsistent with What&rsquo;s Really There and arousing
reaction, creating chaos.

One of the key sentences last week was:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The therapist &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; or we could say, the healer &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; does not heal; HE LETS HEALING BE.

[Raj skipped the next two sentences]
{: .omit}

The Holy Spirit is the ONLY Therapist. He makes healing perfectly clear
in ANY situation in which he is the Guide.
</div>

Again, be careful, because it&rsquo;s so easy to think that you are
deferring to something better than you, something different from you.
But all you&rsquo;re deferring to is that which is nothing more than
your right Mind, which you don&rsquo;t recognize as yours because you
have, for so long, been entranced with the make-believe
&ldquo;you&rdquo; and the make-believe &ldquo;world&rdquo; that you
made-up. The make-believe &ldquo;you&rdquo; can&rsquo;t heal a damn
thing, because it doesn&rsquo;t really exist as something that can do
anything.

So, yes, you have to defer to the Holy Spirit. You have to reach out to
that which seems not to be you, so that reintegration of your sense of
Identity with What You Really Are can occur.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The human therapist can only let Him &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; FULFILL His function.
</div>

See, that&rsquo;s what&rsquo;s so insulting to the ego. &ldquo;You gotta
let somebody else do the work and get the credit.&rdquo; But it will
only seem as though something else is getting the credit while you have
yourself misidentified in your own mind. But leaning into that which you
don&rsquo;t recognize as yourself is the only way to escape your
addiction to your misidentification. And so you must do it, whether it
feels natural to you, or not.

So, let&rsquo;s continue in the book.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*The Awareness of the Holy Spirit*[^1]

How can you become increasingly aware of the Holy Spirit in you EXCEPT
by His effects?
</div>

Well, let&rsquo;s stop for a moment.

You reach out to the Holy Spirit. You let the Holy Spirit fill you up
until you are so full that it overflows and extends to your Brother, and
your Brother is healed. Your Brother is transformed. Your Brother
experiences a change in his experience.  Because it hasn&rsquo;t felt
like you have done anything, because of course you are still identifying
with your misperception even though you&rsquo;re reaching out to that
which is the only Real thing in you, the only way you can tell that you
have done anything is by the effect of the Movement of the Holy Spirit.
The only way you can tell that you&rsquo;re on the right track is not
because you can see directly a cause-and-effect relationship started by
you and affecting your Brother, but because a change has occurred that
you can&rsquo;t take credit for, and yet you know you were inseparable
from.

It&rsquo;s sort of like being hooked up to equipment that can tell
whether you&rsquo;re in an alpha state, a theta state, and so on, and
it&rsquo;s hooked up to a little model railroad, and the more centered
and at peace you become, the train begins to go around the track.
It&rsquo;s going around the track because you&rsquo;re doing less and
less. And the less you do, the faster it goes. And if you try to make it
go, it will stop.

And so, here it is, going around the track. You see the effect of what?
Of your backing out of a place of authority, a supposed capacity to make
things happen, and to move out of an aggressive frame of mind into your
peace. And so, as a result of your doing less and less, more and more
happens. And because of the effect, and because of the fact that the
wires are hooked up to you, you know you had something to do with it.
You know that if indeed you wanted the train to go around and around,
you were doing something right, even though the something right that you
were doing was less and less of anything. The less you did, the less you
do, the more it goes.

So, it&rsquo;s like a lesson in reverse. You learn that the only way to
be truly effective is to abandon trying to be effective. And as you have
that experience more and more, it becomes easier and easier to let
nothing be done by you from an independent frame of mind, knowing that
the less you do, the more will be done.

As you let yourself have that experience, you begin to have a new
experience of Identity. What you begin to recognize as you, is the
absence of doing anything yourself privately. And so, the evidence of
your being on the right track helps to provide you with a new Source of
the experience of your Identity. In effect, the more consistently you
let the Holy Spirit come through you, because you, as a personal
authorizer, are doing less and less, the more opportunity you have to
find out the Real Meaning together with the Real Experience of being
What You Truly Are.

But you must let yourself into that place where something can happen
that you can&rsquo;t take credit for, but because you&rsquo;re
inseparable from it happening, you know that it must have something to
do with you. It&rsquo;s just not the &ldquo;you,&rdquo; the
authoritative you, the skillful you, that you used to practice being and
get your sense of identity from.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
How can you become increasingly aware of the Holy Spirit in you EXCEPT
by His effects? You cannot see Him with your eyes, nor hear Him with
your ears.
</div>

Mind you, this &ldquo;Him&rdquo; is nothing more than your right Mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
How, then, can you perceive Him at all? If you inspire joy, and others
react to you WITH joy, even though you are not experiencing joy
yourself, there MUST be something in you that is capable of producing
it. If it IS in you and CAN produce joy, and if you see that it DOES
produce joy in others, you MUST be dissociating it in yourself.
</div>

Well, [laughing] it isn&rsquo;t like dissociating it in yourself is some
new experience caused by virtue of your doing something right and the
train goes around the track. What it amounts to is that if you are
letting the Holy Spirit be through you and there are
blessings&mdash;blessings that you see are experienced by others, that
you know you were part of even though you weren&rsquo;t the originator
of the Movement of the Joy that&rsquo;s experienced&mdash;you by virtue,
who by virtue of what you have done and seen, should be having the
experience of what was given being made your own. And if you&rsquo;re
not, it&rsquo;s because you are dissociating all of it from you. Again,
this isn&rsquo;t something new, but when it happens, you are in a
position of being able to clearly see the dynamic&mdash;you&rsquo;ve
been dissociated all along.

Now, dissociated. Dissociated.

Oh, a psychological word. What a &hellip; you know, what does that mean?

Well, we&rsquo;ll take Paul as an example. Poor Paul. He has devoted
twenty-three years of his life to let the Holy Spirit speak, to let It
come through him. And when he does, he&rsquo;s not in any state of
tension, any state of confusion, any experience of unworthiness. And
yet, by the same token, any worth that&rsquo;s there, any clarity
that&rsquo;s there is nothing he can take credit for as a private,
separate, independent Paul that he thought he was as he was growing up.
But, just wait until after the Gathering is over and he puts me on the
back shelf, which means he stops listening. He stops &hellip; he
abandons the joining. And now Paul says, &ldquo;Wow.&rdquo; Oh, he looks
around at those who listen to me when he&rsquo;s letting me speak and he
says, &ldquo;Damn. They don&rsquo;t seem to be learning anything!&rdquo;
Oh. Well, you see, there&rsquo;s the dissociation right there. The
dissociation is that he left the place of being joined to have thoughts
of his own. That&rsquo;s what the dissociation is.

So now there&rsquo;s Paul on Sunday nights. And there&rsquo;s Paul every
other month on the Internet&mdash;&ldquo;An Afternoon with Raj.&rdquo;
And on the alternate months, there are larger numbers of people present.
And then there&rsquo;s Paul in between. I don&rsquo;t mean to say that
he abandons me totally, but he does dissociate.

And he wonders what the heck good it&rsquo;s been for him to spend
twenty-three years with no more results, with no more evidence of
benefit. And yet, it isn&rsquo;t as though those who listen to me
don&rsquo;t share with Paul that there&rsquo;s benefit. What it boils
down to is that he&rsquo;s saying, &ldquo;Well, what am I getting out of
it?&rdquo;&mdash;meaning, &ldquo;What does this made-up I &hellip; what
is it getting out of it?&rdquo; Well, it&rsquo;s not getting anything
out of it.

Of course, like right now when he&rsquo;s letting me speak, he&rsquo;s
not experiencing or having any of the thoughts that have to do with
inequity. It&rsquo;s only when he dissociates himself from it that he,
in his right to have his own made-up thoughts, makes up the worst
thoughts you can imagine that cause him to feel bad and useless and
worthless, because after all, for a good part of twenty-three years, the
made-up Paul hasn&rsquo;t done much because the Real Paul has let What
Is Real happen. You see what I&rsquo;m saying?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You cannot see &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; with your eyes, nor hear Him with your ears. How, then, can you
perceive Him at all?
</div>

Well, here&rsquo;s how.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you inspire joy, and others react to you WITH joy, even though you
are not experiencing joy yourself, there MUST be something in you that
is capable of producing it. If it IS in you and CAN produce joy, and if
you see that it DOES produce joy in others, you MUST be dissociating it
in yourself.
</div>

Which really means you must be dissociating yourself from it in you. And
you do the dissociating by claiming the right to think for yourself and
have your own personal private viewpoint in which the function of the
Real Function of Your Being becomes unavailable to you, because
you&rsquo;re choosing not to pay attention to it. You&rsquo;re choosing
not to have it as the object of your attention. So you dissociate
yourself from All That Is True by giving conscious preference to what
you preferred to make-up about everything, and living in that
imagination. It&rsquo;s that simple.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It seems to you that the Holy Spirit does NOT produce joy consistently
in you ONLY because you do not consistently AROUSE joy in others.
</div>

Well, why don&rsquo;t you &ldquo;consistently arouse joy in
others&rdquo;? Because they&rsquo;re not the object of your attention.
They&rsquo;re not the object of your affection. Who you have made
yourself up to be is. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Their reactions to you ARE your evaluations of His consistency.
</div>

When Paul is just being Paul existing in his memory of who he is, his
made-up structures of who he is, he doesn&rsquo;t inspire much joy in
anybody. He may not be a problem for everyone, but you know what? The
train isn&rsquo;t moving. The Movement that arises out of union,
isn&rsquo;t occurring. And so, whatever appears to happen can&rsquo;t
really be fulfilling&mdash;not fulfilling capital &ldquo;P&rdquo;
Purpose.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you are inconsistent you will not always GIVE RISE to joy, and so
you will not always RECOGNIZE His &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; consistency.
</div>

And you know what? That&rsquo;s what makes you miserable. That&rsquo;s
what makes Paul miserable, grouchy, fussy, not too happy with his lot in
life, because [little laugh] after all of this devotion, he hasn&rsquo;t
gotten that much out of it. But the &ldquo;he&rdquo; that hasn&rsquo;t
gotten much out of it, is the conceptual &ldquo;he&rdquo; that he holds
in his mind. It isn&rsquo;t getting much out of it because it
can&rsquo;t take credit for any of the good stuff that&rsquo;s
happening.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What you offer to your brother you offer to Him&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; he Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; because He cannot go BEYOND your offering in His giving.
</div>

What you offer to your Brother, you offer to the Holy Spirit.

Let&rsquo;s reverse it to make sense. What you offer to the Holy Spirit
in terms of your attention and in terms of your willingness to yield to
Him and not function solo, that willingness is what ends up being given
to your Brother, because the Holy Spirit can be through you, and
therefore something of value ends up being extended to your Brother.

So what you offer to your Brother&mdash;let&rsquo;s say it&rsquo;s not
much&mdash;you offer to the Holy Spirit not much in terms of attention
and willingness to let the Holy Spirit in. Make sense? It&rsquo;s not
really complicated, even though your ego can say, &ldquo;Now that is a
mind-bender and I&rsquo;m gonna have to take a while to understand
that.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What you offer to your brother you offer to Him&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; if you offer little to the Holy Spirit, you&rsquo;re offering
little to your Brother.

If you look at your Brother and say, &ldquo;Yeah. [small laugh] What can
I expect? She&rsquo;s a nerd, or she&rsquo;s a jerk, you know,&rdquo;
what are you offering? Not much. And in that state of mind [laughing]
you&rsquo;re not offering much of your attention to the Holy Spirit
either, because you&rsquo;re really pleased with your skill in being
able to squarely peg your Sister and assess her correctly. You see?

What you offer to your Brother or your Sister, you offer to the Holy
Spirit, because He cannot go beyond your offering in His giving. The
Holy Spirit cannot give more than you&rsquo;re willing to let in. And so
only what you let in can end up being extended to your Brother.

Again.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What you offer to your brother you offer to Him&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; because He &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; cannot go BEYOND your offering in His giving. This is not
because HE limits His giving, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; it&rsquo;s not because the Holy Spirit limits His giving.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; but simply because you have limited your RECEIVING.
</div>

And how do you limit your receiving? By dissociating from that which is
nothing more than your right Mind, and utilizing the blank space
that&rsquo;s left in your mind to provide your own definitions and
meanings to fill it up. And that&rsquo;s all that you can possibly
extend to your Brother and Sister, except that the gift you extend in
that frame of mind is always a gift of subtraction. It always leaves
your Brother and Sister less whole&mdash;not as whole&mdash;less whole.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The will to receive is the will to accept.
</div>

&ldquo;The will to receive&rdquo; is not something your ego is capable
of doing.  So I want you to know that whenever you arrive at a point
where you&rsquo;re willing to say, &ldquo;Help,&rdquo; where
you&rsquo;re willing to reach out to the Holy Spirit, where you&rsquo;re
willing to abandon your isolation and let something else in, you move
out of the realm of subtraction. You move into the realm of addition.
And what is given does not deplete you, but becomes yours, as well.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If your brothers ARE part of you, will you ACCEPT them? Only they can
teach you what you are, and your learning is the result of what you
taught them.
</div>

Now this might sound a little bit like gibberish, but bear with me.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If your brothers ARE part of you, will you ACCEPT them? Only they can
teach you what you are, and your learning is the result of what you
taught them. What you call upon in them you call upon in YOURSELF. And
as you call upon it in them it becomes real to YOU.
</div>

These sentences express Singularity.

It says that no matter how many there seem to be of you and your
Brothers, there&rsquo;s only one thing going on. Your Brothers teach you
Who You Are. No. Your Brothers teach you What You Are. Your Brothers
teach you what you are by virtue of their clear or unclear behavior,
their clear or unclear thinking.

They teach you What You Are by providing you with the opportunity to
engage in this hesitation that causes you to turn to the Holy Spirit,
that causes you to experience an infilling which you may not feel
totally yet, but which will overflow and be extended. And when it is
received, you have the evidence of the Movement and the evidence of What
You Are&mdash;the puppet&mdash;the place where God manifests. Not you
manifest, but where God manifests. Or your Brother&rsquo;s clear or
unclear thinking and behavior based upon it, causes you to not hesitate,
but to move forward, like a bulldozer, from your best judgments and
really put your Brother in his place, or move him to the best of your
made-up ability to cause him to find himself in a better place than he
was.

But see, even if your Brother&rsquo;s behavior changes and his way of
seeing himself seems to have improved, the train still hasn&rsquo;t
moved around the track, because you were never joined in the Place of
Peace and Real Union. Hell, your Brother, his behavior might improve,
and he might be happier, because you taught him through your skill and
expertise how to jew his brother out of money, how to behave in business
practices that are sleazy but which make you a million. You see? No
train has gone around the track, even if your Brother seems happier. You
see what I&rsquo;m saying?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Only they can teach you what you are&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; by bringing into play which mode of being you choose to
practice&mdash;joined or unjoined &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and your learning is the result of what you taught them.
</div>

Give nothing, get nothing. Oh, that is the learning you&rsquo;re
supposed to be getting, but everybody is so persistently committed to
being successful independently that no one wants to acknowledge that it
isn&rsquo;t working. And so learning doesn&rsquo;t occur. And the lesson
your Brother is teaching you, isn&rsquo;t registering with you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Only they can teach you what you are, and your learning is the result of
what you taught them. What you call upon in them you call upon in
YOURSELF. And as you call upon it in them it becomes real to YOU.
</div>

You call upon nothing in them. You call upon living out of habit. You
call that forth from them, and that&rsquo;s what you get to keep for
yourself.

And there&rsquo;s no learning there. But it reinforces your ignorant
state. And because of this ethic that you have programmed into your
made-up sense of self, you take this experience as a call for an even
greater exertion of effort on your part to do better next time, so that
without hesitating and breaking the isolation, you might do a better job
than you did this time. That&rsquo;s why it&rsquo;s called insanity.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God has but one Son, knowing them all AS one.
</div>

God has only One Creation, no matter how Infinite It Is.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God has but one Son, knowing them all AS one. Only God Himself is more
than they, but they are not less than He is.
</div>

As I&rsquo;ve said before, God withholds nothing of What He Is in His
Expression of You. I have also said that you can say, &ldquo;God is all
there is of me, but I am not God.&rdquo;

Again.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Only God Himself is more than they&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; His Sons.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; but they are not less than He is. Would you know what this
means?
</div>

That doesn&rsquo;t mean [laughing], would you know what it means if it
came up and slapped you on the side of the face? It means, would you
really want to know what that means? Will you want to know what that
means enough to explore what it means by doing things different, by
hesitating that moment and abandoning your mental habits of
misidentifying yourself and your world&mdash;the Kingdom of Heaven?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Would you know what this means? If what you do to my brother you do to
me&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; here&rsquo;s another gobbledygook sentence that simply
expresses a Singularity.

This and that are This, and that and this are This, because everything
is This. Only This is going on. No matter how many
&ldquo;that&rsquo;s&rdquo; there are, it&rsquo;s all This. It&rsquo;s
all One Thing going on. It&rsquo;s One Thing Infinitely Self-Expressed.
It&rsquo;s Creation. It&rsquo;s what God Is Being Infinitely.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If what you do to my brother you do to me, and if you do everything for
yourself because we are PART of you, everything WE do belongs to you as
well.
</div>

It&rsquo;s like no matter what angle you look at this from, no matter
how many different angles you look at it from, it&rsquo;s all the same
thing going on. There just isn&rsquo;t anything private. It&rsquo;s only
when you claim to be autonomous, you imagine that you can be autonomous,
that you can seem to have things that are yours that others can&rsquo;t
have and don&rsquo;t have, and that others can have that you don&rsquo;t
have and can&rsquo;t have.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Every Soul God created IS part of you, and shares His glory WITH you.
</div>

God&rsquo;s Glory with you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
His Glory belongs to Him, but it is equally YOURS.
</div>

God&rsquo;s Glory belongs to God, but it is equally yours.

God has withheld nothing of What He Is in His Expression of You, and
your Brother, and the tree, and the sowbug.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You cannot, then, be LESS glorious than He is.
</div>

And you can&rsquo;t be less glorious than your Brother is. And your
Brother or Sister can&rsquo;t be less glorious than you are, [laughing]
no matter how well you have described them in the most unfortunate words
to be less than you.

You just can&rsquo;t afford to maintain this sense of autonomous,
isolated existence, because it blinds you to What You Are. It blinds you
to What Your Brother Is. It blinds you to God. It blinds you to All That
Is, as I&rsquo;ve said before, awesomely, profoundly Meaningful.
Everyday you wake up and you open your eyes, and what your eyes fall on
is profound because it&rsquo;s God Being That.

Your experience of your Identity will uncover to you that your
Brother&rsquo;s Identity is identical to yours&mdash; that you and your
Brother are One&mdash;One in Being, One in Nature, One in
Character&mdash;Individual, without having abandoned Indivisibility.

When you claim a private, autonomous sense of self and try to exercise
it, you are saying that you have attempted and you&rsquo;ve fooled
yourself into believing that you have succeeded in dividing That Which
was Indivisible&mdash;God Infinitely Expressed. And as long as you
maintain this sense of having successfully divided what is Infinitely
Indivisible, you will seem to have &hellip; you and everything else that
you are infinitely divided from, it won&rsquo;t be a true experience.

And the only reason you&rsquo;ll be having it and the only reason it
will seem real, is because you&rsquo;ve given preference to it. And
you&rsquo;re enjoying this so-called thrill of believing that
you&rsquo;ve had the authority to do something that actually changed
what couldn&rsquo;t be changed. &ldquo;Wow! You are equal to God.&rdquo;
And you are enjoying the experience, even though it is pure illusion.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God is more than you only because He CREATED you, but not even this
would He keep from you.
</div>

You see? You did not create God, and in that sense you are not God.

But you know what? The subject wouldn&rsquo;t even come up if you
weren&rsquo;t, at the moment, indulging in a sense of independent
selfhood, and giving preference to it in your mind. When you abandon it,
there is no sense of separation from everything. Everything does not
meld into some amorphous, nebulous something that you&rsquo;re
inseparable from. What happens is, you find yourself free from having to
maintain an illusion. And you find yourself free from having to defend
an illusion. And you find yourself free of having to coerce others into
agreeing with your illusion. You find yourself in a position with no
call for defense. And you enjoy the Infinite Oneness. You enjoy the
Singularity Infinitely.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God is more than you only because He CREATED you, but not even this
would He keep from you. Therefore you CAN create as He did, and your
dissociation will NOT alter this.
</div>

That means while you&rsquo;re dallying with the ego, being dissociated,
That Which Is Real and That Which Is True hasn&rsquo;t been altered in
the slightest.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Neither God&rsquo;s Light NOR YOURS is dimmed because you do not see.
</div>

If you put on a blindfold while you&rsquo;re standing in your backyard
in the middle of the afternoon on a sunny day, well, the sun
didn&rsquo;t go out just because everything&rsquo;s black for you.
Reality hasn&rsquo;t changed just because you&rsquo;ve dissociated and
have moved into a head trip that you prefer to Reality.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Neither God&rsquo;s Light NOR YOURS is dimmed because you do not see.
Because the Sonship MUST create as one, you remember creation whenever
you recognize PART of creation.
</div>

Remember? This is, that is This, and that is This, and that is This, and
this is This. It&rsquo;s all One Thing.

Because you and your Brother are One without merging, I&rsquo;m going to
put it that way, whatever of What The Father Is Being that you are
letting through you is Creation happening that you are inseparable from.
And because you and your Brother are One, that which you are making your
own by letting it through you to be received, becomes that which your
Brother is able to have. The gift you give that becomes your own is the
gift you give that becomes every Brother&rsquo;s own.

So, Creation is you letting God&rsquo;s Love through you in the way that
God knows fulfills Purpose. And that Movement constitutes the Movement
of Creation. And because you are not autonomous and separate and
different from your Brothers, your gift becomes the gift that they give.
And when you get to keep it, and you recognize it as your own, they get
to keep it and recognize it as their own. And everything that they allow
of the Movement of Love through them that constitutes the Movement of
Creation is likewise yours to keep.

And so, you get to enjoy being part of, you might say, being creative,
because you&rsquo;re not independent and autonomous, and your
willingness to be in union causes the train to go around the track. And
you&rsquo;re able to see: Ah! I&rsquo;m in the Movement of Creation by
not doing anything as a private, autonomous authorizer. And every single
one of the Brotherhood has, you might say, the experience of what I am
being along with me, and is blessed by what I am able to have, because I
gave by not doing anything as an independent authorizer.

If I see the train going around the track and see the evidence of the
Movement of Creation, and am recognizing that it&rsquo;s the Movement of
Creation, every other Brother and Sister in the Brotherhood is able to
joy in the movement of the train, because they all know what it means,
too, and they know it&rsquo;s inseparable from them. And this is where
the Singularity comes back into play.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Because the Sonship MUST create as one&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you remember creation whenever you recognize PART of creation.
Each part you remember adds to YOUR wholeness because each part IS
whole. Wholeness is indivisible, but you cannot learn of your wholeness
until you see it EVERYWHERE.
</div>

And you&rsquo;re not going to see it anywhere until you stop the
two-step and do the hesitation.

I love you all.

Ain&rsquo;t this fun? I look forward to being with you next week.

[^1]: T9.3 The Unhealed Healer

