---
title: Feb 20, 2005
ref: "T9.3 The Unhealed Healer"
alink: "/acim/text/09/chap0903/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

Over the past few sessions we&rsquo;ve discussed the practice of
hesitation. It is key. Don&rsquo;t underestimate its importance.
Hesitating before responding off the top of your head, hesitating before
engaging in a knee-jerk reaction, is the only thing that is going to
help you get off the merry-go-round of life&mdash;the constant
repetitive practice of everything you&rsquo;ve already
believed&mdash;the constant repetitive reinforcement of everything that
keeps you from waking up, experiencing enlightenment, fresh insight,
that allows you to be and behave in a new way, and in new ways that
elicit new responses from your world.

Now, be aware that when you hesitate [in order] to inquire of the Holy
Spirit what is appropriate, the goals are going to change. You hesitate
in order not to perpetuate self-defense, because always your knee-jerk
responses, always your responses off the top of your head, will
reinstate the practice of self-defense. That is what you all do
automatically.

Many of you get confused when you turn to the Holy Spirit. And because
you&rsquo;ve turned to the Holy Spirit because there is an emergency of
some sort, or a need of some sort, or you are feeling a need for
defense, you turn to the Holy Spirit and you ask the Holy Spirit for a
better defense. &ldquo;I, I, I, I.&rdquo; &ldquo;How can I protect
myself? How can I keep from being bombarded with unpleasant
people&mdash;trying situations?&rdquo; And you ask a question that the
Holy Spirit can&rsquo;t answer, because the Holy Spirit doesn&rsquo;t
see the conflict that you see as though it were real. The Holy Spirit
does know your frame of mind and your current perspective, but unlike
you, the Holy Spirit doesn&rsquo;t believe your perspective.

Perhaps the most difficult aspect of practicing this hesitation and
succeeding at its purpose, is allowing the shift that must occur from
self-defense to extension [to] take place.

&ldquo;Oh, but Holy Spirit, You&rsquo;re not helping me have a better
defense.&rdquo;

And the Holy Spirit says, &ldquo;But you&rsquo;re not abandoning your
conflicted frame of mind. You&rsquo;re not abandoning your confidence in
your belief that you are threatened, so that you can dare to reverse
your position from &lsquo;I, I, I&rsquo; to &lsquo;you, you, you&rsquo;
or everything else, and make a Gift.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Yeah, but Holy Spirit, that isn&rsquo;t what I came to You for. I
came to You to have an answer that would help me feel safe.&rdquo;

And the Holy Spirit says, &ldquo;Yes. But you&rsquo;re asking Me to give
you an answer that makes you feel safe while you&rsquo;re still abiding
in your own misperceptions of being a solitary, a lonely, vulnerable
entity. And you see, that isn&rsquo;t What You Are. And I cannot provide
an answer that will help this &lsquo;you&rsquo; that you think you are,
but which only exists in your imagination, to feel safe. I cannot make
an imagination feel safe. But I can reveal to you What You Are. And I
can turn your attention, if you&rsquo;re willing, in the direction that
will lift you out of the box of polarity, the box of conflict, that you
see yourself in because you are believing that you&rsquo;re separate,
solitary, isolated, and vulnerable. And so, you are going to have to
shift your modus operandi. You&rsquo;re going to have to allow your
intent to change from self-protection to Love, from self-protection
against that which you are perceiving as opposing you to the Extension
of Love to That Which Is Really There. Why? Because with Me, you can
only have one goal. In Reality, you can have only one goal. And that
goal is the Extension of Love. You&rsquo;ve got to be willing to shift
to the prayer, to the intent, &lsquo;I wish to see only the Evidence of
Love.&rsquo;&rdquo;

Now, when you say, &ldquo;I wish to see only the Evidence of
Love,&rdquo; don&rsquo;t let it just be just a wish. &ldquo;Oh, well, I
wish to see the evidence.&rdquo; &ldquo;I wish to see the Evidence of
Love, but &hellip; .&rdquo; You know. &ldquo;Well, I really do wish to
see the Evidence of Love.&rdquo;

But you have the wish, and it sits there un-acted upon, I&rsquo;ll put
it that way. If you wish to see the Evidence of Love, you are going to
abandon the way others are presenting themselves. And they are
presenting themselves based on their sense of being isolated, and alone,
and vulnerable, and in danger, as well. They&rsquo;re presenting that.
Is that what you wish to see? Is that what you&rsquo;re going to give
your attention to? Is that going to be what you base your responses and
actions upon? No.

&ldquo;I wish to see the Evidence of Love&rdquo; means that you engage
in looking right where someone is presenting themselves poorly, or
badly, or obtusely&mdash;you look there with an active desire to see the
Evidence of Love. You look without validating the manner in which your
Brother or Sister is presenting himself or herself. You don&rsquo;t
validate it. You invalidate it by disregarding it and looking with an
actual desire to recognize the Presence of Love there.

And you may have to start out purely intellectually by saying to
yourself, &ldquo;If there&rsquo;s anything right there where I see a
difficult person, if there&rsquo;s anything there presenting itself
badly, there must be something there behind it that is genuine, because
there is no such thing as a pure illusion.&rdquo; And so, at least
intellectually, you acknowledge that there must be something Real, with
a capital &ldquo;R&rdquo;, there. And you persist in letting that
premise be elaborated upon, either by drawing from prior&mdash;and
I&rsquo;m talking about memory&mdash;prior teaching that you might have
learned about What You Are Divinely that you can transfer in your mind,
intellectually, to this person.

Now, what&rsquo;s happened here so far? You&rsquo;ve abandoned &hellip;
you&rsquo;ve hesitated and you&rsquo;ve abandoned your habit of
interpreting what you&rsquo;re seeing from memory. You&rsquo;ve
abandoned interpreting what you&rsquo;re seeing based upon the obtuse
presentation your Brother or Sister is presenting. And you go to another
place to draw upon for clarity.

So, by starting out with more than just a wish to see the Presence of
Love there, but a conscious act of giving attention there, and
redefining it, I am going to say, intellectually, as to what you have
learned must Really be going on there, you are now not being the
evidence of habitual thinking, habitual perceptions. And you have freed
yourself from confirming, let us say, the bad behavior of your Brother
or Sister, together with the poor assessment of them that must follow
that determination. You&rsquo;re now in new territory where your inquiry
of the Holy Spirit can be answered because you&rsquo;re not blocking the
new goal that the Holy Spirit will present to you of being the Presence
of Love.

When you hesitate, you&rsquo;re providing the opportunity to get off the
merry-go-round of habitual perception where the view is the same over,
and over, and over, and you can confidently expect the view to remain
unchanged, and therefore you can be confidant that
healing/transformation/correction will not occur. That&rsquo;s what
you&rsquo;re stuck with if you don&rsquo;t step off the merry-go-round
of habit. And that&rsquo;s why hesitation is so important.

But remember that when you hesitate and get off the merry-go-round, your
goal is going to be new. It&rsquo;s not going to be self-centered.
It&rsquo;s going to be all-inclusive. And the gift is not a gift that
you think needs to be given to you, but the gift will be your
acknowledgement, your willingness to acknowledge, your invitation to be
able to acknowledge God in everything you see.

The only protection you will ever be provided with by the Holy Spirit is
the realization that you need to abandon defense. The only way you will
ever be safe is by abandoning your perception of an opponent&mdash;
something not like you; something not good like you; not somebody who
doesn&rsquo;t &hellip;

(PAUL: Just a moment.)

You see, until you can abandon the sense of difference, you&rsquo;re not
going to be willing to embrace. You&rsquo;re not going to be willing to
extend. And the simple fact is that until you make the Extension of
Love, the Love won&rsquo;t be had by you. It won&rsquo;t be made yours.
And until it&rsquo;s made yours, you&rsquo;re still going to be in some
way seeing yourself as separate, isolated, alone, vulnerable, and
therefore in need of defense.

As you know, whenever we sit down for a Gathering, Paul says, &ldquo;I
allow only for that which expresses the Christ-Consciousness. And I
allow only for that which is in Harmony with the Purpose of capital
&lsquo;B&rsquo; Being&mdash;the Father&rsquo;s Will.&rdquo; In other
words, &ldquo;Thy Will, not mine, be done.&rdquo; This is what he says.
&ldquo;Let the reign of Divine Truth, Life and Love be established in
me, and rule out of me all self-will. And may Thy Word enrich the
affections of all mankind and govern them.&rdquo; That&rsquo;s called
hesitation.

No matter what&rsquo;s going on in his life, no matter what may be
catching his attention or hooking his ego, when it&rsquo;s time for a
Gathering, he sits down and hesitates, stops proceeding down the path of
spontaneous reaction. He hesitates and shifts. He abandons self-defense
by virtue of his expressed desire for his will not to be done, but for
the Father&rsquo;s Will to be done. And for everything that follows to
express what? Reaction, hate, fear, anxiety? No. That which expresses
the Christ-Consciousness.

That&rsquo;s the way you shift. And that shift is essential, and is
something that everyone needs to begin consciously and conscientiously
practicing, because until you get off the merry-go-round in this manner,
you&rsquo;re going to continue to listen and be attentive for that which
will confirm your vulnerability because you&rsquo;re asking for better
and better defense.

What you want in terms of answers is that which reveals to you that you
are invulnerable&mdash;not because there is much to be defended against,
but you have the ultimate defense and now you&rsquo;re
invulnerable&mdash;but because you&rsquo;ve moved out of the state of
isolation in which the Kingdom of Heaven appears to be conflicted, and
therefore dangerous to you.

Oh, but the suggestion is that things are too dangerous for you to take
the time to hesitate. You know the saying, &ldquo;He who hesitates is
lost.&rdquo; Well, the fact is that he who hesitates is saved. If the
hesitation is the first step in shifting one&rsquo;s goals and shifting
the source from which you gather your comprehension of everything
you&rsquo;re experiencing, you could say, &ldquo;He who hesitates is
found,&rdquo; like the Prodigal Son whom the Father lost, but on his
return, his Father has found.

Let&rsquo;s go into the book.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Wholeness is indivisible&hellip; [^1]
</div>

&hellip; it&rsquo;s a Singularity &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; but you cannot learn of your wholeness until you see it
EVERYWHERE.
</div>

I wish to see only the Evidence of Love. Until you have that wish and
look for it, you won&rsquo;t find it anywhere. And if you stay in a
state of defense against your neighbor, or your family, or your boss, or
anyone, if you stay in a state of defense with them, you will not see
Love there because you will not be looking for Love. You will be looking
for more and more evidence of the fact that you need to be defended.

You could say instead of &ldquo;Wholeness,&rdquo; Being is Indivisible,
Being is a Singularity.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Wholeness is indivisible, but you cannot learn of your wholeness until
you see it EVERYWHERE.
</div>

Until you give the acknowledgement of it away.

Now I promise you that as long as you feel that defense is essential,
you will not take the essential step of giving away the acknowledgement
of Wholeness, the acknowledgement of God. That&rsquo;s very elemental.
It&rsquo;s very fundamental. And you can&rsquo;t afford to overlook it.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You can KNOW yourself only as God knows His Son, for knowledge is shared
WITH God.

You can KNOW yourself only as God knows His Son, &hellip;
</div>

Anything else that you would engage in would be a belief about yourself.
And you believe a lot of things about yourselves. And your beliefs,
because they aren&rsquo;t Knowing, have no basis in What God Is Being
right there where you are. And therefore, you don&rsquo;t know yourself.
You&rsquo;re lost in a morass of complex beliefs and belief systems.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; knowledge is shared WITH God. When you awake in Him you will
know your magnitude by accepting His limitlessness as YOURS, but
meanwhile &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; until you do that &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you will judge it as you judge your brothers&rsquo;, and will
accept it as you accept THEIRS.
</div>

It&rsquo;s like the Singularity still applies in the box as well as out
of the box. And so what you believe about yourself, you will believe
about your Brothers. And what you believe about your Brothers, you will
believe about yourself.

And if what you believe about yourself and your Brothers is based upon a
sense of yourself that&rsquo;s not true, based upon a sense of yourself
as being independent from a God, a Divine Source, then everything that
you believe based upon that misunderstanding, you will apply equally to
yourself and your Brothers.

Now the simple fact is that when your perceptions are based upon
ignorance, when they are not based upon Truth, there is throughout them
tension, fear, frustration, general but absolute conflict. But when you
know yourself, because you&rsquo;ve stepped out of that level or out of
that box, what you learn about yourself, you know is True about your
Brother. And you extend it to your Brother. And the Singularity applies.
What you know about yourself, you know about your Brother. And what you
know about your Brother, which isn&rsquo;t gathered from what
they&rsquo;re presenting necessarily, you know about yourself. And there
is no conflict in it. And there is no fear in it. And therefore, there
is in you no shred of defense. And your Innocence becomes theirs,
because it is a Singularity. And although, in time they may not
acknowledge their Innocence readily, they find no justification for
increasing their defense with you.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You are not yet awake, but you can learn HOW to awaken. Very simply the
Holy Spirit teaches you to awaken others.
</div>

&ldquo;Oh, God. It would be so much easier if all I had to do was work
on myself.&rdquo; Well, &rsquo;tain&rsquo;t so.

You see [laughing] &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You are not yet awake, but you can learn HOW to awaken.
</div>

And here&rsquo;s where the shift of intent occurs. The goal changes.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Very simply the Holy Spirit teaches you to awaken others.
</div>

Oh, it breaks the isolation, first thing off the top of the list.
You&rsquo;ve got to be involved. You&rsquo;ve got to care. And then
you&rsquo;ve got to care to send only the very best, because whatever
you send is what you get to keep.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As you see them waken you will learn what waking MEANS, and because you
have willed to wake them, their gratitude and their appreciation of what
you have given them will teach YOU its value. THEY will become the
witnesses to your reality, as YOU were created witnesses to God&rsquo;s.
Yet when the Sonship comes together and ACCEPTS its oneness, it will be
known by its creations, who witness to its reality as the Son does to
the Father.
</div>

You are here to glorify God. Another way of saying that is, you are here
to confirm What God Is.

And the gifts that you give which are received, stand as confirmations
of What You Are, which stand as confirmations of What God Is.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Miracles have no place in eternity because they are reparative. Yet
while you still need healing, your miracles are the only witnesses to
your reality which you can RECOGNIZE. You cannot perform a miracle for
YOURSELF because miracles are a way of GIVING acceptance AND receiving
it. In time the giving comes first, though they are simultaneous in
eternity&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; or you might say, they are simultaneous in actuality &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; where they cannot BE separated. When you have learned that they
ARE the same, the need for time is over.
</div>

Well, let&rsquo;s not jump to that last sentence and try to be from that
standpoint.

Take the time that it takes to embody your willingness to shift from
self-defense to the Extension of Love. You must take the time to extend
the acknowledgement of What Each Other Truly Is, because until you do
that, you won&rsquo;t have the confirmation or the experience of What
You Are. It won&rsquo;t become your own. You can&rsquo;t do it all by
yourself. And you can&rsquo;t do it for yourself. But you can be
inseparable from the Movement that causes you to receive the blessing.
You see? But you just can&rsquo;t get around the fact that you have to
be willing to give, to extend something where your private, personal,
tiny, vulnerable sense of self says, &ldquo;They don&rsquo;t deserve
it,&rdquo; or, &ldquo;It&rsquo;s foolish to do this because
they&rsquo;re not going to understand it. Don&rsquo;t do
it.&rdquo;&mdash;because you&rsquo;ve got to attend to protecting
yourself.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Eternity is ONE time, its only dimension being &ldquo;always.&rdquo;
This cannot mean anything to you, however, until you remember
God&rsquo;s open arms and finally know His open Mind. Like Him, YOU are
&ldquo;always,&rdquo; in His Mind and with a mind like His.
</div>

Because there&rsquo;s only One Mind to be shared.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In YOUR open mind are YOUR creations, in perfect communication born of
perfect understanding.
</div>

But at the moment, we could say, &ldquo;In your closed mind are your
creations in imperfect communication born of imperfect concepts.&rdquo;

When you think you have nothing to do with a God, that you&rsquo;re just
a physical organism, born of a sperm and an egg, you cannot make a gift
that will lift you out of that ignorant misperception. And you will
constantly confirm it.

Now how hard is it for you to break the habit of self-defense, and
hesitate and make this kind of shift? You find a lot of resistance. Some
of the resistance just comes in the form of, &ldquo;It&rsquo;s difficult
for me to believe that this can be true.&rdquo; But that is a
resistance. It is a difficulty.

Now, if it&rsquo;s difficult for you to be willing to make this shift,
you&rsquo;ve got to use some common sense and realize that when you do
make the Gift to someone else so that you might have it, you are likely
to run into resistance as well, initially. And so it&rsquo;s going to
make it seem like doubly-hard work. But we are undoing a
deeply-established habit. And if you are the ones who have arrived at
the point of seeing the way out, even though it&rsquo;s difficult for
you to accept fully and embrace easily, don&rsquo;t be surprised if
there&rsquo;s a little bit of effort that is called into play, because
you become, in effect, the way-showers to an audience that says,
&ldquo;I don&rsquo;t have time to go that way because there are too many
dangerous things going on that I must attend to, or in one way or
another, it will cost me my life.&rdquo;

Repeating.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In YOUR open mind are YOUR creations, in perfect communication born of
perfect understanding. Could you but accept one of them, you would not
want ANYTHING the world has to offer. Everything else would be totally
meaningless.
</div>

Now it&rsquo;s not necessary for you to swallow the whole elephant in
one bite.

Don&rsquo;t say: &ldquo;Well, gee whiz. There are some experiences that
I have had that make what I&rsquo;m hearing truly meaningful, and there
are some experiences of the Presence of God that have demonstrated to me
that what I&rsquo;m experiencing is not really satisfying, but I
haven&rsquo;t yet seen everything As It Is so that I am not tempted in
any way to look at things the way I used to, and to believe what I used
to believe. And so it seems as though there are still things the world
has to offer to me that I haven&rsquo;t let go of.&rdquo;

It doesn&rsquo;t matter. You persist with the way out, knowing that the
habits in you resist the step, and the habits in others resist the
receipt of any gift you actually manage to extend to them.

It isn&rsquo;t that waking up is so hard. It is that your commitment to
your beliefs is so deep. And it is the depth of the commitment to your
beliefs that makes it seem as though it&rsquo;s not worth it to put
forth the degree of effort that you perceive it will take in order to
wake up.

Well, what I&rsquo;m telling you is that from within the box, from
within your accepted state of mental conflict, the easiest thing in the
world, the most natural thing to you is going to look difficult because
part of your deeply ingrained belief is that what is perfectly natural
to you is not natural to you. Why? Because you aren&rsquo;t Divine. Why?
Because you aren&rsquo;t the Christ; there&rsquo;s only one
Christ&mdash;Christ Jesus. Someday you may be like him, but you&rsquo;re
not the Christ. You can&rsquo;t even lay claim to any part of what
&ldquo;Christhood&rdquo; means because you&rsquo;re not That. And
you&rsquo;re firmly committed to that belief. But you are the Christ,
and to be the Christ is utterly natural and utterly effortless.

I&rsquo;m telling you that so that when it seems as though what
I&rsquo;m saying is an impossible task, you may know that it is the one
thing that is actually possible, so that you will persist, not in doing
the impossible, but in recognizing that it is going to look impossible
from your conflicted point of view. If you know that it&rsquo;s going to
appear to be impossible from your conflicted point of view, you will
have more justification for practicing hesitation and shifting gears,
because when you shift gears, the appearance of the impossibility of it
vanishes. It vanishes because it was nothing more than part of the
infrastructure, you might say, of imaginative ideas based upon error,
not based upon Truth. And that&rsquo;s the only reason it appears to be
impossible.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God&rsquo;s meaning is incomplete without you, and you are incomplete
without your creations. Accept your brother in this world and accept
NOTHING ELSE, for in him you will find your creations because he
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your Brother &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; created them WITH you.
</div>

Well, in the process of Awakening, what will your creations be? Your
creations will be the active, conscious Extension of Love; the active,
conscious Extension of the Vision of your Brother&rsquo;s Holiness that
the Father has revealed to you.

Does that mean you&rsquo;re acknowledging the Divinity of that poor
bastard? No. It means you&rsquo;re acknowledging the Divinity of the
Christ that you are seeing where your limited perception was seeing a
bastard. But now you know that there never was a bastard there. There
was just your misperception which grew out of your own sense of
vulnerability and fear that had to have an enemy in order to justify its
fight for survival in a hostile environment&mdash;a hostile environment
that was created only in the imagination in the void left when you got
your divorce from your Father and said you would rather see things your
way.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You will never know that you are co-creator with God until you learn
that your brother is a co-creator with YOU.
</div>

Here&rsquo;s the Singularity again, like I said before. That is This,
and that is This, and that is This, and that is This. It&rsquo;s All
One. No matter how Infinite the Expression of Being that the Father Is
Being, it&rsquo;s still All The Father.

You, divinely speaking, are inseparable from the Father. And therefore,
What The Father Is Being is What You Are. And your Experience of Being
constitutes an Extension. And the Gift you give is your creation. But
understand that we&rsquo;ve been saying that the Gift you end up giving
when you break the isolation is the Gift the Father has given to you. So
the Gift you give is the Father&rsquo;s Gift. And you give it to your
Brother.

And if you&rsquo;re going to stay at the level of Singularity,
you&rsquo;re going to realize that you giving the Gift to your Brother
is what your Brother&rsquo;s Function is, too. Your Brother gives the
Gift from the Father to you, to his Brothers. It&rsquo;s One Thing
embodied, for lack of better words, Infinitely.

It&rsquo;s essential for you and your Brother to be brought into a pure
awareness of What Truth Is. It is necessary for you to abandon the idea
that you, as a spiritually advanced person, are gifting somebody
apparently unworthy of the Gift, so that he or she might be blessed
enough to become illuminated.

The Gift of Acknowledgement that you give to your Brother is not a gift
to what they&rsquo;re presenting themselves as. And it is not a gift to
the concept you have of them. It&rsquo;s a gift to What They Truly Are.
I mean if you&rsquo;re giving the Acknowledgment of What They Truly Are,
you must be seeing What They Truly Are. And you know that you&rsquo;re
not giving a gift to the bitch or bastard that you thought they were, or
that they think they are, or that they&rsquo;re behaving like. You see?

Is this a real stretch? No, it&rsquo;s really simpler than what
you&rsquo;re thinking. You know what? If your Brother isn&rsquo;t worth
this kind of attention, then neither are you.

The Singularity is always there. If you want to wake up, and whether you
want to or not, you will, because you&rsquo;re being asleep is an
illusion&mdash;you are already the Ultimate. But if you want to wake up,
you&rsquo;re going to have to find your Brother and Sister worthy of
your attention, and whatever it takes, however long it takes, to be the
Light, you might say, that provides the illumination necessary for your
Brother or Sister to see It for himself or herself. Now, that is
something you have to keep in mind because you seem to be coming out of
a three-dimensional frame of reference&mdash;time and space and little
entities progressing&mdash;little private entities growing into a
clearer experience of themselves.

But what I&rsquo;ve pointed out to you tonight is that although
that&rsquo;s the appearance, and part of your learning is the
willingness to give for as long as it takes, even if it&rsquo;s forever,
the fact is that the Gift is being given to One Who Already Knows,
because you&rsquo;ve got to be addressing the One Who is neither behind
the Point of Perfection, nor advancing toward it, but is there, and must
be understood therefrom. And it&rsquo;s your task to understand them
from there, and see them from there, because that is the Truth.

If you say, &ldquo;My brother is worthy of this kind of attention for a
couple of weeks, or a couple of years, but not forever,&rdquo; then you
can see that your intent to make the gift isn&rsquo;t Whole and
doesn&rsquo;t constitute a shift in you. It&rsquo;s partial giving.
It&rsquo;s conditional giving.

Your capacity to be the Presence of Love, because you are the Presence
of Love that God Is Infinitely Being right where you are, is your
capacity to give it without limit, and to give it gladly because it
constitutes the fulfillment of What You Are. And so part of your
stepping out of time is learning to be willing to be the Presence of
Love for as long as it takes, without reserving the right to not give it
if it&rsquo;s going to take too much time.

When you&rsquo;re willing to give it for as long as it takes, like I am
willing to give it for as long as it takes, when you are willing to do
that, you will have made a shift inside. And now there won&rsquo;t be
anyone holding out for a little bit of time to be able to spend not
being the Presence of Love. And if you&rsquo;re not willing to be the
Presence of Love forever, the Wholeness of You hasn&rsquo;t dawned on
you within you as your new Awareness of What You Are, which is a return
to your Sanity.

Doing this is not an insurmountable problem, but I&rsquo;ve made it very
clear to you. Why? So that you won&rsquo;t waste your time with
non-essentials. And so that the shift that comes as a result of
hesitation might occur wholly, with less process to it.

I love you, and I look forward to being with you next week.

[^1]: T9.3 The Unhealed Healer

