---
title: Mar 6, 2005
ref: Discussion
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

Well, everyone has had a good couple of weeks to practice hesitation
instead of the two-step. I&rsquo;m going to ask for you to share what
the practice has brought up for you, because in a way it&rsquo;s not an
easy practice. So, I&rsquo;ll just pass the mic around and if you wish
to respond, fine; if not, then pass it on to the next person.[^1]

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Well, mostly I figured out how very little I ever actually hesitate. I
would remember to hesitate after the moment passed when I could have
actually done that. But I&rsquo;m getting closer to &hellip; I mean
I&rsquo;m remembering sooner after I don&rsquo;t hesitate than I did
when I started. I&rsquo;ve got to work on it. I still have my little
stickers. That&rsquo;s all I have to say.

[speaking to previous seeker] I expected you to go on longer. [laughing]

I actually forgot about it the past few days, and it would have been
really good to remember it. But before that I did find that the
hesitating &hellip; well, that the lack of hesitating is kind of always
to defend something. And that in the hesitating, I found that what I
would have defended didn&rsquo;t really need defending. But then I
forgot, and I got back into the habit of defending again, so. But then I
got really tired and I realized that that kind of defense takes a lot of
energy, so then it was easier to hesitate because I was tired.

For me, what seems to be going on, I think it&rsquo;s been a year, not
this last Christmas but the year before, where you told us to stop and
actually acknowledge the clerks in stores, and that&rsquo;s when I
discovered, as Judy has talked about too, that you can have these
wonderful blessed moments with strangers that you don&rsquo;t have
opinions about to start with, so that you have all this love available
from perfect strangers. And you leave, they&rsquo;re feeling good,
you&rsquo;re feeling good; it&rsquo;s wonderful.

So this hesitation thing, it&rsquo;s dawning on me the same thing can
happen with the people I have opinions about. And yesterday I called my
sister with whom I &hellip; well, actually someone I avoid, and had
forty minutes of a wonderful conversation with this person who is on the
Point of Perfection. I never really had seen her that way, as I recall.
[small laugh]

So, yes, I want to do it more. It&rsquo;s made a tremendous difference
in the amount of defense that I usually live with.

Two things come to my mind.

One is I&rsquo;ve noticed that I have an opinion about everybody. I
don&rsquo;t even have to know them. I just look at somebody and an
opinion comes up. And I think because of the whole idea of recognizing
that your salvation comes from being able to connect with the other and
that the other is a teacher, what I found was that now the opinion comes
up and immediately I ask the Holy Spirit for me to see things
differently. And I don&rsquo;t know what I&rsquo;m expecting to see but
the opinion coming up triggers that mantra, so to speak.

And then the other thing is, which I&rsquo;ve just recognized, is there
will be people who call me or come to yoga class, and then for some
reason, and there&rsquo;s every kind of excuse, I&rsquo;ve heard a lot
of different excuses as to why they can&rsquo;t continue to come. And
what I found is that what will come up for me is there will be something
that I might be able to say that would be helpful for that person before
they leave. And I&rsquo;ve in the past said, &ldquo;Well, they&rsquo;re
gone, so I&rsquo;m not even going to waste my time with them.&rdquo; And
now I&rsquo;m beginning to realize that it&rsquo;s very important for me
to make any constructive comment to them, because they&rsquo;re never
gone, and there&rsquo;s never a separation, and that person is never
disconnected from me, even whether they&rsquo;re coming to class or not.

And so, that&rsquo;s the next thing that I want to bring into my
experience is to always recognize my connection with everyone, whether
they&rsquo;re a participant or not [a] participant in my life.

I&rsquo;m afraid I haven&rsquo;t remembered to hesitate until after the
event.

Something I&rsquo;ve noticed in the last few weeks while taking solitary
walks, and even a trip I took to southern California and back, that I
had to have it in the past if I&rsquo;m in a solitary mode, if I come
across &hellip; come up next to people, cross them on the street, or
engage them in a store setting as I think someone said, that I tend to
be a little resistant, but what I&rsquo;ve noticed in the last few weeks
was that while approaching someone on a walk, or engaging with them in a
minor business transaction, that the thought that they are a Brother or
a Sister has come into mind and has colored the transaction. As fleeting
as it might be, just passing someone and making eye contact and saying
&ldquo;hello&rdquo; with a quality that&rsquo;s been very refreshing and
validating for the whole idea that I am more connected to others than I
give myself credit for. So it&rsquo;s been a kind of interesting series
of minor but noted exchanges or experiences.

I think I&rsquo;ve only done just slightly better than I usually have.
So I&rsquo;m looking for an excuse as to why I haven&rsquo;t done
better. But I really don&rsquo;t have one, so I think that&rsquo;s about
all I can say right now.
</div>

Two things:

To hesitate after the fact is an excellent practice as well. Just
because you didn&rsquo;t hesitate on the spot doesn&rsquo;t mean that
hesitation isn&rsquo;t still valuable. What are you hesitating for?
You&rsquo;re hesitating to break the habit, or to interrupt your
habitual thinking. Right? And after the fact when you say [snaps
fingers], &ldquo;Damn. I should have hesitated,&rdquo; you still need to
hesitate, because your mind is still running down this track where you
are still involved in the frame of mind that wasn&rsquo;t the best at
the time of the incident. And so there&rsquo;s still the need for the
interruption of your habitual thinking.

Now the second thing is, what is the purpose of hesitating? It&rsquo;s
to interrupt your habitual thinking and to listen, to turn to the Holy
Spirit to ask, &ldquo;What do I need to know here? What&rsquo;s the
Truth here? What is the Truth that would constitute my reflecting Love
in my environment and in light of the experience I just had in which I
didn&rsquo;t hesitate?&rdquo; Remember, the reason for hesitating is to
switch tracks.

There is a statement that&rsquo;s very helpful: Love illumines,
designates, and leads the way.

You hesitate to open up to the Holy Spirit or to the Father, to let
yourself be infilled with Love, the Father&rsquo;s Love; something which
blesses you. This Love that is the Father&rsquo;s Love illumines the
way, designates the way, and leads the way. So you see, when you
hesitate, the purpose is to shift the source of that which governs you.
Is it going to be your habitual thinking, or is it going to be something
outside of that that&rsquo;s larger, whose motive is Love and not
self-defense? It&rsquo;s the point at which you stop acting like a
puppet without strings, and you allow yourself to truly be a puppet so
that the Father&rsquo;s Love illumines for you the way, designates the
way&mdash;says, &ldquo;Walk this way,&rdquo;&mdash;and leads the way.
Love doesn&rsquo;t say, &ldquo;That&rsquo;s the way to go,&rdquo; and
then steps out for a cup of coffee while you try to do your best. Love
says, &ldquo;Here is the way. Walk this way and follow me.&rdquo; You
see?

So it doesn&rsquo;t matter whether you hesitate after the fact or not.
At any point that you hesitate [in order] to switch tracks, to yield to
guidance with the intent to be the Evidence of Love, any time you do
that is the appropriate time.

Now, I&rsquo;m going to pass the microphone again. This time if any of
you have had the experience of hesitating, and experienced an influx of
changed perspective in any way that was helpful at any time in the last
couple of weeks, I would like you to share that. And if it didn&rsquo;t
happen, that&rsquo;s fine, but I want to open up this avenue for
discussion.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Well, it&rsquo;s when I first &hellip; I have to pause here and wonder
which one of the two would stand out in my mind the most. And yesterday
I had a phone call from my sister-in-law who &hellip; it&rsquo;s too bad
that the topic that brings us in the historically in different arenas is
on a spiritual model that she is a deep fundamentalist, and in the years
past, has been very argumentative about anybody who hasn&rsquo;t been
saved. And that model, yesterday, did not come up in the conversation
because I, in fact, did hesitate, but not initially.

Maybe five minutes into the conversation I did take a moment of pause
and seek the real meaning of the phone call, and from that moment on,
the phone call was entirely different. And the amount of love that she
shared with me not only about her feelings toward me, but toward my
wife, which is her sister, that was very reassuring. And the
conversation itself all the way through until its termination was a very
pleasant and delightful conversation to have with her. And I felt that I
wasn&rsquo;t taking charge of the conversation; it was already charged
with Love. And it was a pleasure to have that happen and when it&rsquo;s
very similar to someone who mentioned earlier when they have paused with
a relative of theirs. And to me that was a very significant change.

It isn&rsquo;t easy to pause. I&rsquo;ve, like the rest of you,
hesitated to even answer at first, because I find myself pausing further
in after I have gotten in, already stepped into the quagmire of the
conversation, saying, &ldquo;Gee, I should have paused,&rdquo; and find
out where this is supposed to go.

And thank you for sharing that&rsquo;s really not a bad place to stop
either. Take that second look and say, &ldquo;Okay, I missed the pause,
but I&rsquo;m going to go back and pick it up,&rdquo; and see what I
need to know about this conversation, or whatever the transaction is.
</div>

Hesitation is not meant to be used as an avoidance, but as a vestibule
in which you can shift the way you&rsquo;re being involved with your
Brother or Sister. And you remain involved.

Okay.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Thank you.

I&rsquo;ll pass the microphone to the next person.

A good deal of my experience was realizing that I didn&rsquo;t hesitate
on the really big things, that I call big things, that felt big to me.
And what I realized was why I don&rsquo;t. What I was doing when I
wasn&rsquo;t hesitating, I was defending myself. I was very defensive
and reaction. And I forgot that I don&rsquo;t &hellip; there&rsquo;s
&hellip; I have nothing, there is nothing I need to defend. I forgot
that part.

And later on I would look at it and think, &ldquo;Oh, I wonder what
would have happened if I had hesitated. I wonder what would have come to
me to do.&rdquo; Because all the things that I&rsquo;m doing have made
no difference whatsoever, and I keep doing the same thing over and over
again. It&rsquo;s not changing anything. And I really want to see what
this would do for the situation, including myself.

And after the fact sometimes I could look back and look at it a little
bit different and kind of have some insight into where the other
person&rsquo;s defenses were. And I have a little more compassion for
the fact that they&rsquo;re struggling also. It isn&rsquo;t just me
struggling. It&rsquo;s they&rsquo;re struggling, and they don&rsquo;t
realize why they&rsquo;re struggling, or even that they&rsquo;re
struggling. So &hellip;
</div>

So hesitating after the fact still allows insight to occur and shifts of
perception to occur that allow you to be with whoever it was in a
different way and to consider them in a less judgmental way with more
compassion. That very shift, even though no conversation has taken place
between the two of you, has its effect, because there are no private
thoughts. You see? What happens is that the messengers you send out
after you have hesitated are different messengers sent out to gather and
bring back to you a report that will confirm what they were sent out to
find. So don&rsquo;t ever think that if you haven&rsquo;t responded
appropriately on the spot that the opportunity to be appropriate has
been lost.

Okay.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Thanks.

I can&rsquo;t remember like a &hellip; or sight a particular incident,
but there were several times over the last couple of weeks in
conversation with Chris where just me hesitating and, you know, just
kind of listening for what he might really be saying, or Who He Might
Really Be, allowed me to feel a lot more like Love and Peace, and I
think brought a lot more harmony to our home and our interactions with
each other.
</div>

Exactly.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yeah.

What comes to mind for me, I work with someone who gets very angry very
easily. And I seem to do a lot of things that are irritating, and so for
months I have been so on the defensive. And what&rsquo;s come up in the
last two weeks, and I don&rsquo;t know if it&rsquo;s because of my
hesitating, but a friend helped me remember that working is not about
earning money. God&rsquo;s abundance is there for me. So my job should
be to be there to extend, and that&rsquo;s what I&rsquo;ve been trying
to hesitate and remember. That&rsquo;s what I&rsquo;m really there for.
And so the defenses are coming down. I&rsquo;ve actually had moments
when I really love this person; just felt absolute love. And I still
have a job and I&rsquo;m amazed. I just &hellip; I&rsquo;m amazed I
still have a job.

Anyway it is really helping me not be so frightened. I haven&rsquo;t
gotten the extending part down very well, but you said that it might
&hellip;
</div>

But you are extending a willingness.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yeah.
</div>

You are extending something.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay.
</div>

A willingness not to be fearful, which is another way of saying a
willingness not to be defended in the presence of this person who easily
gets angry. So you&rsquo;re extending defenselessness. You are extending
Love. And you&rsquo;re not holding her to a past interpretation of her
and her behavior and her psychological patterns. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Right.
</div>

You are extending something.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Thank you. And thank you for all your help.
</div>

You are welcome.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I guess it was the last time we &hellip; a Sunday that we were asking
questions and you asked about if we had any questions relative to the
material and I related that I was having a difficulty with someone who I
contracted to do some technical work for me and that they &hellip; it
was supposed to take about three months and it&rsquo;s been going on a
year. And what I did with that situation was I asked the Holy Spirit to
help me get rid of the negative emotion around the whole situation and
around, you know, relating directly to this individual. And I just kept
asking for that.

And I don&rsquo;t &hellip; I can&rsquo;t even put my finger on when the
shift took place, but the upsettedness about it just left me, so that it
was like &hellip; the charge is gone. And if it takes another year,
that&rsquo;s okay. If, you know, if it doesn&rsquo;t, that&rsquo;s okay.
So I became neutral about the situation. About two days later, the
person calls me up and says, &ldquo;I got it done and, you know, here it
is.&rdquo; And it was like the whole relationship was transformed. And
there was no, you know, had been no interaction between us for weeks.
And so, it was like, you know, all this like cause and effect; just
cause and effect.

For me now it&rsquo;s about negative &hellip; if I get a negative
uncomfortable feeling about a situation, or a person, or whatever, that
to me is the trigger that some transformation needs to take place in the
way I need to see this thing. And so that&rsquo;s what I ask the Holy
Spirit, you know, help me to see things differently. And what I&rsquo;m
beginning to see &hellip;
</div>

Which is the way one hesitates.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yes. Yes. But it&rsquo;s the negative emotion that triggers it. And then
where I&rsquo;ve been kind of like let down by the situation, up until
recently, was that it seems like there was no transformation happening.
But I was persistent. I kept asking, and asking, and asking. And then
this thing happened with this individual which was, you know, like a
real eye opener. So I guess it&rsquo;s starting to work, you know, even
though there&rsquo;s not &hellip;
</div>

You&rsquo;re starting to employ it. It has always worked. [audience
laughter]

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Right. See that was the thing. It was like I was employing it, but I
didn&rsquo;t see any results. In other words, there was still a charge
there. But now it seems, and I don&rsquo;t know why, it&rsquo;s like
why, you know, is it that the constant persistence wears &hellip; begins
to neutralize the resistance I have around the concept or feeling about
it? You see what I mean?
</div>

Indeed.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
In other words, my habit has been looking at it, saying, &ldquo;Oh, this
doesn&rsquo;t work. This isn&rsquo;t working for me. I must be doing
this wrong.&rdquo; Or, you know, I&rsquo;m not understanding what Raj is
saying, and that&rsquo;s why it&rsquo;s not working&mdash;never
realizing that on some level there&rsquo;s resistance to it, and
that&rsquo;s why it&rsquo;s not working.
</div>

Plus the thought process, &ldquo;I must not be understanding Raj,&rdquo;
or &ldquo;I must be doing something wrong,&rdquo; this is Michael
authoritatively taking the reins and determining an explanation.
There&rsquo;s no hesitation there.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Ah.
</div>

You see? You can recognize there is something out of order, that
there&rsquo;s a call for correction, and instead of defining the nature
of the call for correction better, you shut up and you say,
&ldquo;Father, Holy Spirit, what&rsquo;s the Truth here?&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Right.
</div>

&ldquo;What is the Truth that embodies my intent, my desire to see the
Evidence of Love and to be the Evidence of Love?&rdquo;

And being the Evidence of Love is allowing yourself to be the place
where Love is embodied, not at your hand, but as a spontaneous result of
being open enough that the Father&rsquo;s Love and the Father&rsquo;s
Perspective can register with you as a shift of perception that
constitutes an &ldquo;Aha!&rdquo; or even a series of
&ldquo;Aha&rsquo;s&rdquo; that simply spontaneously overflow into your
perceptions of everything that&rsquo;s around you, and specifically
regarding whatever caused you to hesitate in the first place for
clarity.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So here I, you know, I feel a judgment come on which gives me a bad
feeling, and then I hesitated and asked for my perception to be changed,
and then I would judge the process. And that was where I was trapping
myself.
</div>

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I see. Thank you.

Well, during a recent trip to southern California, I drove on the trip
1400 miles down and it gave me plenty of time for my mind to work some
scenarios on the forthcoming visit that I was looking forward to. But
there was a degree of unease because I was working scenarios that were
based upon memory or some idea of the future; what it would be like. I
had the pleasant anticipation of visiting my son and his family, but my
mind was working its own scenarios&mdash;what it might be like, what I
can contribute, how it will be like.

And I was uneasy enough about that process to where I just got a little
bit upset, and with that process, stepped back and, you know, prayed
that I&rsquo;d be able just to be present and let the chips fall. And
the visit turned out to be not what I expected. There were longer
periods of quiet. But enough good happened, enough experience in the
present of being with those people that I felt, you know, glimmerings of
the appropriateness of that kind of sense&mdash;that time was involved.
Whenever I would go to the past, our history together, or some sort of
ideas about the future&mdash;how it might be, how I might be as a
granddad, or how they might be as grandkids&mdash;just be with them. It
was really quite refreshing. And there were some really bright moments
of Love. And it was very gratifying.

I&rsquo;ve been in a situation where my life as it existed before
doesn&rsquo;t seem possible. And the future is so unclear that
I&rsquo;ve been forced to just get up and show up in a long-term care
facility, which initially just seemed like an assault to my senses, and
just be there. And I&rsquo;ve been witness to just being led through the
day each day and where there&rsquo;s so much love and care and support.
And it&rsquo;s just something I&rsquo;ve never experienced before.
Surrendering to what&rsquo;s possible in the moment, rather than
grieving about what&rsquo;s [???], or trying to plan or worry about the
future.
</div>

In other words, you&rsquo;re not using the present moment to secure a
safe future. You&rsquo;re not using the present moment to defend
yourself against a negative future. Right?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yes.
</div>

Yes. Yes. And you&rsquo;re not trying to control the moment you&rsquo;re
in.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I don&rsquo;t know how.
</div>

Exactly. And you&rsquo;re finding a way to be this way gracefully,
relatively speaking.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
[small laugh] Right. By the Grace of God.
</div>

Exactly.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay.
</div>

Yes. You see, the reason for abandoning control, which is what
hesitation is, is to allow yourself to have the Experience of Grace.
Until you get off the pedestal, until you get off the speaker&rsquo;s
platform where you&rsquo;re in charge, you can&rsquo;t find out that God
is already in charge, and that by Grace you are Loved and your needs are
met. Not necessarily in the way you would plan them out, but in ways
that you can&rsquo;t take credit for. And therefore, the fact that care
is occurring that you aren&rsquo;t responsible for is a demonstrable
&hellip; or it&rsquo;s a demonstration that there is a God.

It&rsquo;s very humiliating to let yourself into that place, but the
humiliation of the ego uncovers the humility of you. And so it feels as
though you have moved from being humiliated into an experience of
humility. And humility is nourishing. Humility is fulfilling.

Because until you have a demonstration in your experience of the fact
that there is really a God, it&rsquo;s just theory. This is another
reason for practicing hesitation, because it allows a shift of
perception to occur, which isn&rsquo;t just a shift of ideas, but
it&rsquo;s a shift of a way of being present. And part of the shift of
the way of being present involves what you might call being more
permeable&mdash;less defended, more can get in. And what gets in is the
experience or demonstration that there really is a God, and it&rsquo;s
not up to you, and it never has been up to you.

It never has been up to you. And that is an incredible relief that no
longer or it ceases to suggest humiliation. It uncovers an Experience of
Wholeness that you can grasp is permanent, if you won&rsquo;t try to
take hold of the reins again.

Hesitation is for the purpose of letting a shift of perception occur.
Which is what? A miracle.

Thank you for sharing.

Now, nobody has brought up the subject, but hesitating so that you might
interrupt your habitual thought processes and your habitual perceptions,
and so that you will be susceptible to the influx of revelation is not a
means by which you gain control over your world. It isn&rsquo;t a way by
means of which you can make somebody be healed. And we need to be clear
on this. Your doing it and your experiencing the influx of the
Father&rsquo;s Love that causes your perception of everything to change
so that this experience overflows you and gets spontaneously extended,
this does put you in a position of being an agent for change, a
facilitator, you might say, of change, but it doesn&rsquo;t put you in
the position of being able to authorize the change to happen now or ten
minutes from now.

You have to be willing to be the Presence of Love that doesn&rsquo;t
have an ace up its sleeve. It&rsquo;s not a love that is extended if the
one it&rsquo;s extended to will do such-and-such. You see, when the
Movement of Love infills you and overflows you, and thus gets extended,
the furthest thing from your mind is control or manipulation. It&rsquo;s
like you hear something funny and you laugh, laughter escapes your lips
and it reaches out and it touches everyone in the area, but the last
thing you&rsquo;re thinking about is, &ldquo;What effect is my laughter
going to have on everybody in the room?&rdquo; You&rsquo;re not saying,
&ldquo;Oh, my laughter is going to heal everyone. My laughter is going
to change everyone.&rdquo; No. You&rsquo;re caught in the Movement of
Joy.

Now, if someone in the room is down in the dumps and they&rsquo;re not
committed to their misery, they&rsquo;re likely to be blessed by your
laughter, and it might just break the spell and change their day for
them, because they were so tickled at your unaffected, un-self-conscious
outburst of joy.

There may be someone in the room who&rsquo;s miserable and quite
committed to their misery, and your joy released will not touch them. In
fact, they may say, make some remark, you know, &ldquo;Hey, cut the
racket out back there! Gotta get my work done. Cut out the
laughing.&rdquo; You see? A response that matches in no way the feeling
you&rsquo;re having.

What do you do when you do hesitate and you do reach within to the Holy
Spirit or the Father, and you wish to have the Truth revealed, to know
what the Truth is, and it is revealed, and it does end up being
spontaneously extended and it is met with absolute resistance? Perhaps
even ugly resistance, unkind resistance. Well, if the Extension of Love
that is extended out of Love or from Love to your Brother or your Sister
is not met with receipt, and if the extension and receipt of it,
we&rsquo;ll say, is what means you get to keep it, what do you do with
that? It would appear that someone&rsquo;s commitment to their misery
could keep you from being able to keep what you&rsquo;ve given away. You
understand what I mean?

And here&rsquo;s where you have to be careful. Those who are committed
to their misery are confused. But they&rsquo;re not just confused;
they&rsquo;re confused and their confusion is set into place with a
linchpin. In other words, it is strongly secure. What you have to be
careful of, first of all, their commitment to it is an addiction to it,
an addiction to their misery, and you have to be careful that you
don&rsquo;t become addicted to trying to overcome their addiction. This
is very important. If they say &ldquo;No,&rdquo; it is not appropriate
for you to persist in forcing, we&rsquo;ll say, the wonderful Truth that
you&rsquo;re knowing about them upon them. But it&rsquo;s very foolish
for you to abandon the Truth that has been revealed to them to you about
them.

Because your mind is going to be occupied by something from the Voice
for Truth or the voice for fear, it&rsquo;s going to be occupied or
filled with something from one of the two teachers. It&rsquo;s your
Function, it&rsquo;s the Divine Function of your Being to be glorifying
God&mdash;meaning recognizing God because God has uncovered Himself to
you. That&rsquo;s your Function.

And so if you are met with firm resistance, you don&rsquo;t stop knowing
the Truth that&rsquo;s been revealed to you, but you do not inflict it
upon one who is absolutely, steadfastly refusing to let it in. You back
off. You disengage from the one-on-one resistance, and you persist in
remembering, staying in touch with the shift of perception that the
Father provided you about them. It&rsquo;s your job not to backslide and
slip back into the historic definitions that you have had about that
person.

Well, the ego would say, &ldquo;Yeah.&rdquo; And of course the ego
always has things to say about your spiritual advancement or real
progress. The ego says, &ldquo;Yeah, they&rsquo;re keeping you from
waking up. Wow. They&rsquo;re no friends of yours. You&rsquo;re right.
It&rsquo;s not fair.&rdquo; You see? And invites you to move back into
judgment.

I&rsquo;ve said before that those of you who are dreaming dreams are,
for lack of better words, having a nap on a rolling hillside in the
Kingdom of Heaven. Until you begin to stir, we do not disturb you. You
want your dreams. But the moment the dreams begin to be uncomfortable
and you begin to toss and turn and moan, and the indication is that
you&rsquo;re on the verge of becoming conscious, we are right there in
support of your decision to move out of your misery.

Now this is very important. And I&rsquo;ll tell you something. Those of
you, and I&rsquo;m not speaking of you specifically, but those of the
Brotherhood who are still sound asleep and deeply committed to their
dreams, are not keeping us from waking up, have not kept us from waking
up. And so, you keep the Vision, you stay with the Vision that has been
revealed to you that is the Truth about your Brother or your Sister,
even though they are absolutely refusing to let it in. And you gently
leave them and turn toward those who are beginning to stir. Is this
clear?

You can, if you are not careful quote &ldquo;because you really want to
wake up&rdquo; unquote become compulsively aggressive in terms of
helping your Brother or Sister to wake up, especially if they are
resisting it. Now you will have to listen to know whether to persist or
not. But what I&rsquo;m addressing is the tendency that is there for you
to become one of the Christian soldiers marching on to war against that
which is unreal. And that&rsquo;s not Love and that&rsquo;s not what
it&rsquo;s about.

Does anyone remember the distinction I shared with you between sin and
sickness? Very simply, sickness is a misperception believed in that no
one wants, that no one likes. Sin is a misperception believed in that,
for one reason or another, one has made commitment to.

They make commitment to it because they see it to be to their benefit.
&ldquo;Poor me. Woe is me.&rdquo; They&rsquo;ve learned that if they
believe that and they profess it, it will attract helpers who will say,
&ldquo;Oh, yes. Woe is you. What can I do to help you?&rdquo; And so
this person has a misperception of themselves, which is to their
detriment because it keeps their Birthright of Wholeness out of sight
for them. They make commitment to it because they see a benefit in it.
And they end up using others. And it becomes a lifestyle that they hold
on to, because they don&rsquo;t have to become self-responsible, and a
number of other reasons.

So, sin is, you might say, the taking pleasure in ignorance because
there is a benefit to it. And the frame of mind is used to take
advantage of others, which is to the detriment of others. The correction
of sin is different from the correction of sickness. Because in order
for sin to be corrected, there is a process of education that must
occur. The individual practicing it, has to somehow be educated out of
their misperception and their attraction to their misperception.

So I bring this up because if you are dealing with someone committed to
their misperception that puts them to a disadvantage and everyone around
them to a disadvantage, it is going to take quote &ldquo;more time and
more persistence.&rdquo; And because their practice of sin has become an
ethic in their life, a strong-willed way of behaving in life because the
payoff to them is great, you, if you&rsquo;re going to present any
different perspective to them, are going to be seen as an intruder;
someone who wishes to violate a very definite preset configuration that
they&rsquo;re holding on to that keeps their lives together. And so you
are not going to be met with open arms. And you are going to be met with
great resistance, and most likely unkind resistance, because their ego
wants to get rid of the threat to its imagined stability.

This is one of the situations in which, in most cases, it is necessary
to step back, and, you might say, love them from a distance. You must
step back to the place where the True Perception of them that the Father
has provided you that has uplifted you and overflowed you. It is
important for you to step back to the place where that does not get
covered up or distorted by their obtuse responses. And you continue to
hold them in that perspective because it&rsquo;s the Truth. And you are
not about to abandon the Experience of Truth that you&rsquo;ve had, just
because they are being unreasonable, obnoxious, and unkind to you.

Now, I know everyone loves to have a pat answer that works in all
situations. You&rsquo;ve got to hesitate every moment, and listen every
moment. Because there will be times when if you&rsquo;re dealing with
someone addicted to their misperceptions, there will be times to speak
up and to share what they normally would object to strenuously, and
there are other times not to. There are times when you can fulfill your
purpose of extending Love when the point will hit home, and there are
times when it won&rsquo;t.

And if you don&rsquo;t listen for the difference, you will end up
becoming compulsive in your attempt to help this &ldquo;woe is me&rdquo;
individual. And you end up becoming their servant. It might not be that
you end up jumping when they say jump, but you end up being constantly
miserable because you can&rsquo;t make any headway. And so now your life
has become debilitated because you&rsquo;ve lost the Father&rsquo;s
Perspective. You have forgotten that what you&rsquo;re here for is to
see the Evidence of Love, and you&rsquo;re here to be the Evidence of
Love, to be the Presence of Love. You see?

So what you do is, you listen carefully and you speak or you don&rsquo;t
speak, you speak firmly or you speak very gently, depending upon what
the leading is when you&rsquo;ve hesitated and listened. And you
don&rsquo;t lose your clarity, and you don&rsquo;t become distracted
from staying with it, where there is no reaction going on. The moment
you begin to feel reactive to someone who is standing in absolute
defiance of any love that you would extend to them, you&rsquo;ve lost
your Peace. You&rsquo;ve taken a hold of the other end of the rope for
the tug-of-war and you&rsquo;re engaged, but not engaged in your
Function.

Now, those who are holding on to their limitations, those who say,
&ldquo;I can&rsquo;t take time to hesitate because the circumstances in
my life are so threatening that if I don&rsquo;t take care of them,
ultimately I will die,&rdquo; is something that you can become subject
to. Not because they&rsquo;re saying it to you, but because you in
watching them are saying to yourself, &ldquo;I need to hesitate to get
the right perspective so that I can be the Presence of Love extending
Love, because their situation is dire and they may indeed die, and
therefore I can&rsquo;t say &lsquo;No&rsquo; and back off.&rdquo; You
see what I&rsquo;m saying? You can become caught in not releasing them
from your focused attention, if I may put it this way, your focused
attempt to give, because indeed you see that their behavior could result
in their death, and their behavior is becoming so much more erratic that
dire circumstances are more likely, and therefore you cannot afford
&hellip; you cannot afford to get back into your Peace and relax. You
must continue to persist in giving the gift. And you are now
compulsively attempting to be in control &hellip; and [are] absolutely
out of control. You have abandoned your capacity to be an agent for
change. Is that clear? Does that make sense? And this is not what
you&rsquo;re here for. And this is not what hesitation is about.

Hesitation is not a means of control. Hesitation, listening,
experiencing the infilling that you can&rsquo;t contain within yourself,
is something you do because it&rsquo;s your Function. It is your
Function to be able to recognize God in each and every thing. And so you
do it just because, whether the things you are seeing are recognizing it
about themselves or not. And you persist in doing it because it&rsquo;s
your Function, not because it will help them. You do it, because doing
it, is you being in your right Mind.

And the fact is that you&rsquo;re doing it because it means you&rsquo;re
in your right Mind, will have the effect of undermining your
Brother&rsquo;s or Sister&rsquo;s fear that causes them to be committed
to that which is detrimental to them. That undermining is inevitable.
And so you continue to make the gift because it has its effect, but not
in your time frame, and not because you have some kind of control. It
undermines because there is no way for them to remain as strong in their
determination to be ignorant when you or anyone else is being the
Presence or Evidence of Love. And so, in making the gift because you
choose not to use your mind in any other way, does ultimately end up
allowing you to keep what you are giving.

You know what? If you were on a community development, a redevelopment
committee, or if you wanted to be involved in rehabilitating your
community, you could go out and find the ugliest place in the worst
condition in town and tackle that to restore it. But you could also go
out and get one, find one, that is less in need of restoration,
that&rsquo;s easier for you to do, that you might be more capable of
coping with at the moment.

So what am I trying to say? I&rsquo;m trying to say that when
we&rsquo;re talking about hesitation, we&rsquo;re not talking about your
going out and finding the most difficult thing there is to hesitate
about, and then trying to meet that challenge, when you already have
enough trouble hesitating to find out what the Truth About You is. Do
you see what I&rsquo;m saying? And so don&rsquo;t &hellip; don&rsquo;t
foil yourself by saying, &ldquo;Okay, I&rsquo;m going to test out this
hesitation bit on the most impossible situation I can find, to find out
whether it&rsquo;s True, whether it&rsquo;s valuable.&rdquo;

As I said, when my Brothers and Sisters, dreaming on the grassy knolls
in the Kingdom of Heaven, are sound asleep, I do not give my attention
there. But the ones who are rousing, [snaps fingers] I&rsquo;m right
there. Because everyone is going to wake up for their reason, because
they want to, because they have arrived at some point where they
seriously want something different from what they&rsquo;ve been
dreaming, and that&rsquo;s where you respond.

And you don&rsquo;t feel guilty about not being able to do anything for
the ones who are snoring loudly, deep in their dreams. But you&rsquo;re
always paying attention for the first moment anyone [snap of fingers]
has an interruption in their snoring and begins to twitch, or turn, or
show signs of returning consciousness, or the potential for it.

It&rsquo;s not really called &ldquo;conservation of energy.&rdquo;
It&rsquo;s a matter of understanding How It Works. You can&rsquo;t
override free will.

Free will is Divine Will used inappropriately, because those using it
are experiencing everything through a distorted perception. It&rsquo;s
Divine Will and it cannot be overridden. So, you have to wait until
there is a decision, a real opportunity for communication between What
They Divinely Are and What You Divinely Are to occur. And the moment the
circumstance is there, [snaps fingers] you take hold of it. But you
don&rsquo;t spin your wheels trying to overcome the will of a Son of God
who is absolutely determined to be in a state of denial of What He Is.
But all the while that you&rsquo;re not forcefully trying to overturn
that Son of God&rsquo;s will, you don&rsquo;t abandon the clarity about
them that the Father&rsquo;s Love has revealed to you.

The more who awake constitute, or the increasing numbers of those who
are waking up constitutes a decrease of numbers of those who are in
mutual agreement to see everything as it&rsquo;s not. And that means
that the misperception of the Kingdom of Heaven loses strength causing
those who are dreaming to have more fitful dreams, because they
can&rsquo;t hold it together as well.

Much to let register and sink in, but it will simplify things for you.

And one last word, remember that when you are hesitating and reaching
within to the Holy Spirit, or your Guide, or the Father, it is to have
your Function as the Presence of Love be revealed to you so that you
become the Evidence of Love in the world whether it&rsquo;s recognized
or not. And then you are ever so grateful when it is.

Okay.

I love you all. That was a &ldquo;meat and potatoes&rdquo; evening. And
I look forward to being with you next week.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Thank you.
</div>

You are welcome.

[^1]: Students comments or asking a question

