---
title: Mar 13, 2005
ref: "T9.5 Salvation and God's Will"
alink: "/acim/text/09/chap0905/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

Well, how many of you are working on yourselves in the prospect of
waking up? And how many of you are not working on yourselves and feeling
guilty about it? And in light of those two questions, how many of you
are having fun?

The Course speaks&mdash;and I know some of you will disagree&mdash;with
great clarity. [some audience laughter] In fact, it speaks quite
starkly. This is true. This is not true.

It could suggest that all of you should be applying yourself with great
diligence, because the ego is not your best friend, the ego
doesn&rsquo;t have your interests at heart, and it&rsquo;s constantly
working on you to keep you from experiencing your Birthright. One could
think that you exist in the middle of a war, and that the call is for
you to win the war. And so, many of you neglect to play.

Everything that we&rsquo;ve been reading about since the beginning of
the study group should be, or has the potential for, causing
exhilaration and enlivenment in your mind&mdash;greater curiosity than
you&rsquo;ve had before to recognize What Is True in whatever confronts
you during your day. It should be causing you to feel as though you are
a participant in an adventure, rather than a work ethic.

And I want to remind you of this. Some of you get so diligent that you
become unkind with each other. &ldquo;Well, I&rsquo;m working very
diligently, and you&rsquo;re goofing off. You say you&rsquo;re working,
but your actions and your words don&rsquo;t show it.&rdquo; And what
you&rsquo;re saying is, &ldquo;I can&rsquo;t be happy with you having
fun when I&rsquo;m having to apply myself so diligently. It&rsquo;s not
fair. You&rsquo;re not being as serious about all of this as you should
be, which means you&rsquo;re not treating all of this with the diligence
that I am requiring of myself.&rdquo; What you&rsquo;re not saying is,
&ldquo;I can&rsquo;t let myself off the hook. I insist upon being at the
ready, diligent, on guard, watching for the slightest ego activity in
myself and in others so that I can correct it.&rdquo;

You&rsquo;ve got to ask yourself (some of you do): Am I having fun? Am I
experiencing enjoyment of any kind in this process of awakening? In the
pursuit of the Truth that I&rsquo;m engaged in, am I being able to enjoy
my fellowman more? Am I able to be present with my fellowman without
constantly seeing everything that needs to be corrected in him or her?
And if I were to be a little bit laid back, and be with others, be
present with others without being engaged in this work ethic, am I being
just sucked into the dream? Am I not attending to, or neglecting,
something that I should be? Am I becoming too loose, too un-attentive?

I&rsquo;ll tell you something. Enjoyment in your daily lives is part of
life. When you reach for your Peace and find it, you&rsquo;re in a place
where you can notice what is delightful, and acknowledge it, embrace it,
participate with it. To not always have your nose to the grindstone
working on hard issues is not a sin. Instead of having your nose to the
grindstone, so to speak, [laughing] let your nose notice the smell of
the roses. And realize that the experience, because there are no real
illusions, the experience has Reality to it, whether you know the full
significance of the Reality of it or not. So be present with enjoyment
with the same curiosity to see the more of What&rsquo;s Really There as
you&rsquo;re trying so hard to do with the ugly things. You see?

Let&rsquo;s go to the book.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*Salvation and God&rsquo;s Will*[^1]
</div>

Or, &ldquo;The Two Evaluations,&rdquo; depending upon the book
you&rsquo;re reading.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God&rsquo;s Will is your salvation.
</div>

[laughing] We could say it&rsquo;s your will that&rsquo;s your
downfall&mdash;the will you think you have all by yourself.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God&rsquo;s Will is your salvation. Would He not have given you the
means to find it? If He wills you to HAVE it, He must have made it
possible and very easy to obtain it.
</div>

Well, not only would He not have given you the means to find it, He did
give it to you. It&rsquo;s already yours. It&rsquo;s already in your
possession.

You&rsquo;re neither behind the Point of Perfection, nor advancing
toward it. You&rsquo;re at that point, so the gift has been made. He has
given you the means to find it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your brothers are everywhere.
{: .omit}

You do not have to seek far for salvation.
</div>

What&rsquo;s salvation? God&rsquo;s Will. God&rsquo;s Will is your
salvation. You do not have to seek far for it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Every minute and every second gives you a chance to save YOURSELF. Every
minute and every second gives you a chance to save YOURSELF.
</div>

Well, what does that mean? Well, if the flower here is the evidence of
God&rsquo;s Will, if it&rsquo;s the Movement of Creation that God Is
Being, then every time you look at that flower, you&rsquo;re presented
with the opportunity to see God. You&rsquo;re presented with the
opportunity to see the more that you&rsquo;re not seeing yet and be in
your Sanity again. Every single thing that confronts you is nothing less
than the Kingdom of Heaven seen clearly or through a glass darkly.

So:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Every minute and every second &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and every thing that you experience &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; gives you a chance to save YOURSELF. Do not lose these chances,
not because they will not return, but because delay of joy is needless.
</div>

You see, the delay of joy is needless. Fun should be an ongoing
experience, because not having fun is needless. It&rsquo;s not something
nice to have.

It&rsquo;s your Birthright to be experiencing because Reality is so
wonderful. There is wonder to everything that confronts you. And this is
why you can dare to be curious every morning, every moment of your day.
This is why you can dare to anticipate insight/revelation, rather than
[laughing] the things you actually expect.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God wills you perfect happiness NOW.
</div>

Well, is it a special gift to you poor sinners? [laughing] No!
It&rsquo;s your Birthright. It&rsquo;s your innate nature because
you&rsquo;re not what you think you are. You are the Presence of God.
You are the Presence of the Ultimate. You are the Christ.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God wills you perfect happiness NOW.
</div>

What? Without your having to stretch taller? What? Without your having
to work harder to wake up? God sees not a struggling sinner working to
lift himself up. God sees His Self-Expression and recognizes Himself in
you.

And the act of recognizing Himself in you constitutes the Extension of
the Gift of Joy, and the acknowledgement that it has been received
already by you, whether you&rsquo;re choosing to look at it or not. The
Acts of God are already accomplished in you right now, whether
you&rsquo;re letting it in or not, whether you&rsquo;re arguing against
it or not, whether you&rsquo;re sure that it couldn&rsquo;t possibly be
true about you because after all look at yourself. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God wills you perfect happiness NOW. Is it possible that this is not
also YOUR will?
</div>

Oh, you have an inkling of it, because you&mdash;whether you have it or
not, whether you&rsquo;re experiencing it or not&mdash;do desire to
experience perfect happiness. Every single one of you have that desire.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And is it possible that this is not ALSO the will of your brothers?
</div>

You see, I&rsquo;m sitting here talking to my Brothers and Sisters. And
I&rsquo;m saying to you, your will is to experience perfect happiness.
And you&rsquo;re miserable when you&rsquo;re not experiencing it. And
you recognize that something is wrong because you&rsquo;re not
experiencing it. Why? Because, at the bottom line, you know that perfect
happiness is your Birthright that can&rsquo;t be taken away from you,
and you can&rsquo;t be happy not experiencing it. So I&rsquo;m talking
to my Brothers right now, and I&rsquo;m saying to you, face it! Pay
attention to the obvious in you. You do desire to experience perfect
happiness.

Now, what about your Brothers and Sisters? Are you looking at them, and
at least in your mind, acknowledging that they too desire perfect
happiness? Are you extending that recognition to them as well?

Or are you just riding along on whatever habit of perception
you&rsquo;ve developed about them? &ldquo;Oh, that bitch, that bastard,
they&rsquo;re never gonna change. They&rsquo;re not worth my attention.
They&rsquo;re a pain in the ass.&rdquo; Well, wait a minute. What
happened to the opportunity you have to say, &ldquo;They desire to
experience perfect peace, too&rdquo;? Well, you can&rsquo;t get too
close to that acknowledgement as long as you&rsquo;re going for justice,
and as long as you enjoy indulging in judgment.

But, your Brothers and Sisters are all around you all day long, every
day, and they, by being there, continually provide you with the
opportunity to abandon your favorite perception of them, or your
favorite unfavorite perception of them, and say, &ldquo;Wait a minute.
They desire to experience perfect happiness now, too.&rdquo;

And now we can go a little step further. And why do they? For the same
reason you do! Because it&rsquo;s the Father&rsquo;s Will for them to
have it. And they&rsquo;re nothing less than the Direct Expression of
the Father in whom the Father recognizes Himself. You see?

So, do you want to see transformation, or do you just want to repeat
your old habits of perception over and over again? Do you want to just
have the effects of your ego over and over, or do you want to reach
beyond it? Do you want to see something new, or do you just want to
reinforce what&rsquo;s always been?

Now, if the Father has placed within you joy, and if the Father has
placed within you perfect happiness, then it&rsquo;s your Function to be
allowing it to blossom in you. It is not your function to be denying it,
or squelching it, or covering it up.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[Raj goes back to the beginning of the paragraph reading various
sentences.]
{: .omit}

God&rsquo;s Will is your salvation.

&hellip; He must have made it possible and very easy to obtain it.

Every minute and every second gives you a chance to save YOURSELF.

God wills you perfect happiness NOW. Is it possible that this is not
also YOUR will? And is it possible that this is not ALSO the will of
your brothers?
</div>

You see, we&rsquo;re getting your head on straight at the moment.
We&rsquo;re getting your intent and your choice of what to be conscious
of in alignment so that it expresses a Singularity, rather than a
confusion that can only elicit a confused or conflicted experience.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Consider, then, that in this joint will &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning yours, and the Father&rsquo;s, and your Brother&rsquo;s
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you ARE all united, and in this ONLY.
</div>

So you can magnify all the differences you see between yourself and your
Brothers, if you wish, or you can find out where you are in harmony,
even if it&rsquo;s only in one thing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Consider, then, that in this joint will you ARE all united, and in this
ONLY. There will be disagreement on anything else, but NOT on this.
</div>

It would be pretty difficult for you to walk up to anybody and say,
&ldquo;Do you desire perfect happiness? Whether you think it&rsquo;s
available to it or not, to you or not, do you desire it?&rdquo;&mdash;it
would be almost impossible to go up to anybody and have them say,
&ldquo;No.&rdquo;

All of you have this basic ground of mutuality and agreement. And this
is where there is an open door for communication to develop. Magnifying
differences will not do that. It keeps separation alive, reinforcing it
constantly.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This, then, is where peace ABIDES. And YOU abide in peace when you so
decide.
</div>

Well, it isn&rsquo;t like you can say, &ldquo;Okay, I have decided to
abide in Peace.&rdquo; The decision to abide in Peace, like a song that
isn&rsquo;t a song until it&rsquo;s sung, is nothing until it&rsquo;s
embodied. Your decision to abide in Peace is going to be demonstrated by
how you&rsquo;re using your mind.

Your choice to be in your Peace will be demonstrated in your willingness
to abandon your preconceptions about your Brother, and your practice of
acknowledging that your Brother desires to experience perfect happiness
because &hellip; [you fill in the blank yourself]. You see, you continue to
embellish and reinforce the truth of this by explaining it further.
Because the Father has placed the experience of perfect happiness in
your Brother just as he has in you. Because your Brother isn&rsquo;t
what he thinks he is, or what you have thought he is.

Your Brother is at this moment now nothing less than God manifesting the
Presence of God right there. Your insistence upon recognizing the Truth
in your Brother and in every thing is the practice that gets you off the
wheel of history. It&rsquo;s the practice that constitutes the
hesitation in reinforcing your preexisting concepts that blind you to
the Truth.

Again.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This, then, is where peace ABIDES. And YOU abide in peace when you so
decide.
</div>

It&rsquo;s up to you&mdash;when you so decide.

When you don&rsquo;t so decide, you won&rsquo;t experience your Peace
yet. Not because it&rsquo;s not available, but because you haven&rsquo;t
chosen for it yet. You&rsquo;d rather stay in your conflicted
perceptions and reinforce them, inflicting them on yourself and on your
Brothers and Sisters.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet you cannot abide in peace unless you accept the Atonement because
the Atonement IS the way to peace.
</div>

What is the Atonement? You could say that the Atonement is the movement
back into your right Mind. The Atonement is you coming back Home.

In other words, in an overview, the Atonement is you no longer insisting
upon turning your back on Home and carving out for yourself, by your own
will, a life that is of such significance&mdash;no matter what you had
to do to your Brothers and Sisters&mdash;that you can finally say you
have arrived, and you have done it by your will, and it is your
accomplishment, and you have made yourself worthwhile entirely by
yourself. In other words, you have created a finalized ultimate entity
that has nothing to do with God. That&rsquo;s the opposite of the
Atonement.

The Atonement is what happens when you abandon that and start moving
back Home, start moving back into your Sanity. It&rsquo;s a choice for
Love. In other words, it&rsquo;s a choice for being Love. Love that is
not so arrogant that it can proffer it out, or withhold it at will from
different things. Love that humbly blesses everything it looks upon
because it looks upon everything with Love, and therefore blesses
everything and you, who has extended it. Atonement is the way to Peace.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you cannot abide in peace unless you accept the Atonement
because the Atonement IS the way to peace. The reason is very simple,
and so obvious that it is often overlooked. That is because the ego is
AFRAID of the obvious, since obviousness is the essential characteristic
of reality.
</div>

I&rsquo;ll tell you, the Kingdom of Heaven that confronts you is
obviously the Kingdom of Heaven. It really is obviously the Kingdom of
Heaven.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet YOU cannot overlook &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the essential characteristic of Reality &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; YOU cannot overlook it unless you are NOT LOOKING.
</div>

When you are so sure of the nature and character of your boss, or your
child, or your parent, or anybody else, you are not looking.
You&rsquo;re closing your eyes, in so many words, and projecting your
picture out there upon them. If you were looking with Love, if you were
looking undefendedly, if you were looking without interposing anything
between yourself and what you&rsquo;re seeing, the God-ness of what
you&rsquo;re seeing would be so obvious to you that your mind would be
transformed, and your behavior would change. All this is describing is
the willingness to look and hesitate before you interpose your
preexisting definition about what you&rsquo;re looking at.

And just remember for a moment, that one desires to experience perfect
Peace because perfect Peace is the Father&rsquo;s Will for them. And
it&rsquo;s the Father&rsquo;s Will for them because the Father has
placed it in them. The Father placed it in them because they are the Son
or Daughter of the Father, and He recognizes Himself in them. And His
recognition of Himself in them declares the completed fact of their
Divinity, just as it does with you.

When you allow that shift to occur in you, you have succeeded in
hesitating before applying your definition. And you&rsquo;ve laid the
groundwork for the experience of that Truth to infill you.

Listen to this.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is PERFECTLY obvious that, if the Holy Spirit looks with love on ALL
He perceives, He looks with love on YOU. His evaluation of you is based
on His knowledge of what you are&hellip;
</div>

Not what you think you are, but What You Really Are.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and so He evaluates you truly.
</div>

Now that&rsquo;s what the Holy Spirit does with you. That&rsquo;s what
&ldquo;that which is nothing more than your right Mind&rdquo; does with
you. That&rsquo;s what your right Mind does with you. Your right Mind
loves you. It doesn&rsquo;t tell you how awful you are. It feeds back to
you your worth; not the worthlessness you think is the characteristic of
you.

Now, if the Holy Spirit, or any Awakened Brother, or the Father, does
that with you, your task is to do that with each other, because
that&rsquo;s the only thing that will heal or transform.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
His evaluation of you &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is based on His knowledge of what you are, and so He evaluates
you truly. And this evaluation MUST be in your mind because HE is.
</div>

And He is in your Mind, because He is your right Mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego is also in your mind because you have ACCEPTED it there.
</div>

Well, I&rsquo;ll say that you not only have accepted it there, you made
it up there. You created the ego, which is nothing but a collection of
definitions and beliefs about yourself that you made-up when you said,
&ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;d rather see things my way.&rdquo;

So:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego is also in your mind because you have ACCEPTED it there. ITS
evaluation of you, however, is the exact opposite of the Holy
Spirit&rsquo;s because the ego does NOT love you. It is unaware of what
you are&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; unlike the Holy Spirit who knows exactly What You Are Really,
the ego does not know What You Are. Why? Well, the ego is a denial of
What You Are. The ego is you using your mind to say, &ldquo;I am
divorced from my Father and I do not have a source other than myself. I
am claiming myself as my source and I am going to be God now. And I am
going to define everything now.&rdquo; You see?

The ego &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is unaware of what you are, and wholly mistrustful of
EVERYTHING it perceives because its own perceptions are so shifting.
</div>

The ego is instability itself. It, therefore, knows nothing trustworthy.
And its existence seems to arise out of the goal to bring everything
into order.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego is therefore capable of suspiciousness at best and viciousness
at worst.
</div>

I&rsquo;m going to stop here for a second.

This is a favorite, or has become a favorite quotable quote from the
Course.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego is therefore capable of suspiciousness at best and viciousness
at worst.
</div>

And someone sees somebody behaving badly and he says, &ldquo;Yeah, well,
what can you expect? &lsquo;The ego is therefore capable of
suspiciousness at best and viciousness at worst.&rsquo;&rdquo; And
nothing else is said. So it seems to validate the existence of the ego,
and its character, and its nature, and its method of operation. And it
just leaves it hanging there as though it&rsquo;s a declaration of
something important.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego is therefore capable of suspiciousness at best and viciousness
at worst.
</div>

But&mdash;see, we&rsquo;re going to continue the sentence&mdash;but the
ego isn&rsquo;t real. The ego is a sense of self made-up out of
imagination, and so its suspiciousness and its viciousness, having no
real source, can have no real effect. And so I do not need to be afraid
of it, whether it&rsquo;s in its suspicious mode or in its vicious mode.
Or you can finish the sentence by saying, &ldquo;The ego is, therefore,
capable of suspiciousness at best and viciousness at worst, but my Mind
is part of God and I am very holy.&rdquo; Or, &ldquo;So-and-so has acted
viciously. Well, what can you expect? The ego is suspicious at the least
and vicious at the worst, but that individual&rsquo;s Mind is part of
God and he is very holy, she is very holy.&rdquo;

You see, you don&rsquo;t leave it dangling in the air unchallenged or
uncorrected. You don&rsquo;t leave it there without bringing the Truth
into the picture that says, &ldquo;This one who appears to be behaving
suspiciously or viciously, his behavior doesn&rsquo;t reflect What They
are. That one&rsquo;s Mind is part of God and he or she is very
holy.&rdquo;

You see what I&rsquo;m saying here? By correcting a statement about
error, by correcting a statement about that which isn&rsquo;t true, you
take away its sting, you take away its seeming capacity to cause you
harm, and you also take away its capacity to be successfully applied to
the person who seems to be behaving badly, because you lift them out of
that definition of the ego. You&rsquo;re not an ego. And you&rsquo;re
not your ego&mdash;the one you&rsquo;ve made-up. And your Brother
isn&rsquo;t an ego, and isn&rsquo;t whatever definitions he or she has
made-up about herself. Not only that&mdash;they aren&rsquo;t that. But
their Mind is part of God and they are very holy. You see?

What if everyone got up tomorrow morning, went through their day going
to work, driving the freeway, buying lunch, doing whatever their
activities were during the day, what if all day long everyone, just in
their mind, was looking at someone else and saying no matter what their
behavior, &ldquo;But that one&rsquo;s Mind is part of God and he or she
is very holy.&rdquo; What if that was the active acknowledgement that
everyone was giving to everyone else throughout the day tomorrow? Do you
think it wouldn&rsquo;t be transformational? Do you think that it
wouldn&rsquo;t become embodied as a visible change in the world? Do you
think that without everyone pointing out each other&rsquo;s flaws and
judging them for it and trying to make them feel guilty for it, that
that wouldn&rsquo;t cause everyone to start behaving in a new way?

The absence of what everyone does do would be a demonstration of
hesitation. And instead of bouncing off of your predetermined, loved
perceptions and definitions of everything, you wished to see God there.
You wished to see the Evidence of Love there.

You know, I gave you the two prayers: I wish to see the Evidence of
Love. And I wish to be the Evidence of Love.

Now, &ldquo;I wish to see the Evidence of Love&rdquo; doesn&rsquo;t mean
looking at somebody who&rsquo;s behaving badly and say, &ldquo;Man, I
wish to see the Evidence of Love there. I wish they would change. I
would like to see them behaving nicely.&rdquo; That isn&rsquo;t what it
means (that I wish to see the Evidence of Love). What it means is, I
wish to see them without looking through a preexisting definition I am
holding about them. I wish to see there, not I wish to get from there. I
wish to see there what I know is the Truth about them. I wish not to see
my misperception of them. I wish to see what revelation, insight, has
uncovered to me about them which I am seeing there, in spite of the way
I used to interpret their behavior, and in spite of the way they see
themselves.

You see what I&rsquo;m saying? When you say, &ldquo;I wish to see the
Evidence of Love,&rdquo; it&rsquo;s you engaged in an act of projecting
the True Consciousness of them there, instead of getting hung up on your
perceptions of what&rsquo;s going on based on your own tiny, fearful
frame of mind, coupled with their behavior that is based on their tiny,
troubled frame of mind. To say, &ldquo;I wish to see the Evidence of
Love there,&rdquo; doesn&rsquo;t mean, &ldquo;I wish they would
change.&rdquo; It means I wish to see them in a new way. I wish to
extend to them whatever Consciousness of Truth God will reveal to me.
You see? It&rsquo;s far different from saying, &ldquo;Gee, it would
really be nice if they were a little more pleasant to be around.&rdquo;
That&rsquo;s not wishing to see the Evidence of Love. There&rsquo;s no
gift in it.

&ldquo;I wish to see the Evidence of Love&rdquo; means you are going to
take the proactive step, we&rsquo;ll say, of insisting upon asking for
the Vision that will let you see or grasp the meaning of the fact that
if there&rsquo;s anything there at all where your Brother or Sister is,
it has to be God. The moment you do that, the lens through which
you&rsquo;re looking shifts and you are looking for something different.
You are looking to see the Evidence of Love there. You&rsquo;re looking
to see the more of What&rsquo;s Really There than what you had seen, or
even what your Brother thinks is there and calls himself or herself. Are
you getting what I&rsquo;m saying?

To wish to see the Evidence of Love is not a wish to stand in receipt of
something. It&rsquo;s a wish to make a gift of a new way of seeing that
is gathered not from your memory, but a willingness and an expressed
desire to have the Holy Spirit reveal to you What Is Truly There, just
as the Holy Spirit, your right Mind, looks at you and sees What&rsquo;s
Truly There and extends it to you, and does not believe what you think
you are and all the feelings you have associated with what you think you
are. And that&rsquo;s why your communion with the Holy Spirit is always
healing. And that&rsquo;s why the Holy Spirit can turn everything, every
situation to your advantage. You have the opportunity with your Brothers
and Sisters to be that which turns whatever is happening in their life
to their advantage.

So:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego is therefore capable of suspiciousness at best and viciousness
at worst.
</div>

Not a great capacity in terms of capabilities, is it?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
That is its range.
</div>

[laughing] That&rsquo;s all.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
That is its range. It cannot exceed it because of its uncertainty.
</div>

And it&rsquo;s incapable of achieving certainty.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; it says here &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; it can never go BEYOND it because it can never BE certain.
</div>

Well, what does all of that mean, you know, viciousness and
suspiciousness, and blah, blah, blah? It means that if you&rsquo;re
engaging in the practice of memory, if you&rsquo;re engaging in the
constant rehearsal of an imagination, you are being nothing, doing
nothing, accomplishing nothing. Even when it can be called suspicious or
malicious, it&rsquo;s accomplishing nothing. Because why? Because it
doesn&rsquo;t express the Father&rsquo;s Will. And the Father&rsquo;s
Will is what constitutes your will really. Anything else you engage in
is a bunch of nothing, no matter how seriously you take it, and no
matter how hard you are working on yourself to wake up. [small laugh] So
no matter how many dynamic words you might be able to apply to the
ego&mdash;suspicious, malicious, greedy, blah, blah,
blah&mdash;you&rsquo;re talking about nothing but a bunch of hot air.
You&rsquo;re talking about nothing.

The choice is between nothing and something. The Holy Spirit which is
nothing more than your right Mind, and nothing. The ego&mdash;nothing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You, then, have two CONFLICTING &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what? . .

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; evaluations of yourself in your minds, and they CANNOT both be
true. You do not yet realize how COMPLETELY different these evaluations
are because you do not understand how lofty the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s
perception of you really is.
</div>

It&rsquo;s another way of saying how lofty that which is nothing more
that your right Mind is.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit, your right Mind &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is not deceived by anything you do because He never forgets
what you ARE.
</div>

Well, I&rsquo;ll tell you, you go through your day and constantly forget
Who You Are, and constantly forget Who Your Brother Is. And you believe
what&rsquo;s left, which is whatever you&rsquo;ve made-up, and whatever
they&rsquo;ve invited you to make-up.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego is deceived by everything you do, even when you respond to the
Holy Spirit, because at such times its confusion INCREASES.
</div>

[small laugh] When you talk to the Holy Spirit, when you have communion
with the Holy Spirit, the ego really gets confused. You see? The
confusion increases. Why? Because it&rsquo;s losing your attention,
it&rsquo;s losing your devotion, and it doesn&rsquo;t know what to do
about it.

As I&rsquo;ve said before, the only thing the ego&mdash;talking as
though it were something real&mdash;the only thing the ego can&rsquo;t
defend itself against is disregard. And when it can&rsquo;t defend
itself, it&rsquo;s in a great state of confusion.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego is, therefore, particularly likely to attack you when you react
lovingly because it has evaluated you as UNLOVING, and you are going
AGAINST its judgment.
</div>

Now, it&rsquo;s very easy to read that and interpret it as though
it&rsquo;s talking about [whispered] someone else&rsquo;s ego.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; someone else&rsquo;s ego &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is, therefore, particularly likely to attack you when you react
lovingly because it has evaluated you as UNLOVING, and you are going
AGAINST its judgment.
</div>

But your very own ego does this to you.

How on earth do you think you could be distracted from coming back Home
if it weren&rsquo;t for the fact that this sense of self that you have
made-up, which has no real existence, must keep you in a state of
confusion and an experience of vulnerability that it can convince you,
you must attack and bring into order.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego will begin to ATTACK your motives as soon as they become clearly
out of accord with its perception of you.
</div>

Just try to be the Presence of Love, just try to engage in trust, and
see how quickly the ego presents itself to you and tries to convince you
that you&rsquo;re out of your mind, that you are unworthy, that you are
worthless, and that what you think means nothing significant, and
undermines any semblance of a sense of integrity that might have begun
to feel. That&rsquo;s the way it works. So don&rsquo;t always be looking
at someone else&rsquo;s ego and saying, &ldquo;Yeah, of course,
it&rsquo;s going to attack me.&rdquo;

This sense of an independent selfhood that you embrace as being you is
itself a denial of What You Really Are. And so it can&rsquo;t see Who
You Really Are. And when something in you begins to have a glimmer of
What You Really Are, and your attention shifts to that and away from the
ego, the ego does not like that. It feels threatened. And so it calls
your worth into question and tries to engage you in becoming defensive.

Again.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego will begin to ATTACK your motives as soon as they become clearly
out of accord with its perception of you. This is when it will shift
abruptly from suspiciousness &hellip;
</div>

Or you could say being ill at ease or experiencing an undercurrent of
uncomfortableness.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; from suspiciousness to viciousness, since its uncertainty is
increased. Yet it is surely pointless to attack in return. What can
this mean &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; attacking in return.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What can this mean except that you are AGREEING with the ego&rsquo;s
evaluation of what you are? If you are willing to see yourself as
unloving &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; or unworthy &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you will NOT be happy. You are condemning yourself, and MUST
therefore regard yourself as inadequate.
</div>

Now I want to remind you that even if you indulge in regarding yourself
as inadequate, the Holy Spirit, that which is nothing more than your
right Mind, does not agree with you. Your right Mind still sees Who You
Really Are.

And you know what? In those moments where you have forgotten and you
have began to regard yourself as inadequate, you need to say about
yourself, &ldquo;But, my Mind is part of God&rsquo;s and I am very
holy.&rdquo; You see, you need to remind yourself of the Truth About
Yourself, and not just say, &ldquo;Yeah. I am inadequate. And what a
pisser it is. I mean I feel really awful about myself.&rdquo; You see,
you don&rsquo;t just walk on down that path. You hesitate and change
tracks and you say, &ldquo;But my Mind is part of God&rsquo;s and I am
very holy.&rdquo; And you remind yourself so that, in so many words, you
can reconnect on that track&mdash;the track of What&rsquo;s True About
You. That simple recognition, even if it&rsquo;s just words you&rsquo;re
saying in your head, have broken the habit of perception and has put you
in a place where the Holy Spirit can connect with you feelingly,
insightfully, not intellectually, but in your very Being, in your heart.

So:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Would you look to the ego to help you escape from a sense of inadequacy
it has PRODUCED, and must MAINTAIN for its existence? Can you ESCAPE
from its evaluation of you by using its methods for keeping this
picture INTACT?
</div>

The only thing that will release you from it, is hesitating to continue
moving down that track and shift gears, as it were.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You cannot evaluate an insane belief system from WITHIN it.
</div>

A psychiatrist might be able to evaluate a patient&rsquo;s insanity
because the psychiatrist isn&rsquo;t insane and has the larger
perspective. The one who&rsquo;s insane cannot evaluate the insanity,
and therefore cannot facilitate the departure from the insanity.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You cannot evaluate an insane belief system from WITHIN it. Its own
range precludes this. You can only go BEYOND it, look back from a point
where SANITY exists, AND SEE THE CONTRAST.
</div>

You see, you cannot say, &ldquo;I am a sinner. I must repent. I am a
sinner. I must repent. I acknowledge I am a sinner and I must repent in
order to get out of my sinfulness. I am a sinner.&rdquo; You see, you
keep saying, &ldquo;I am sinner and I want to get out of my sinfulness.
I am a sinner and I want to get out of my sinfulness.&rdquo; So, you
have to stop saying that, and you have to say, &ldquo;I am neither
behind the Point of Perfection, nor advancing toward it. I am at that
point and I must understand myself therefrom. I cannot understand What
Is True about me from a mindset of being a sinner.&rdquo;

And you also can&rsquo;t get past whatever blinders you have on
regarding your Brother as long as you don&rsquo;t lift them out of that
definition of being a sinner and replace it with an acknowledgement that
neither are they behind the Point of Perfection or advancing toward it.
They are at that point and they must understand themselves therefrom.

But if you&rsquo;re the one whose face they&rsquo;re in, you must hold
to that as well, because only there will you be standing beyond whatever
insane belief system they&rsquo;re employing, or whatever insane belief
system you had been employing about them. And only from there, can you
look back from a point where Sanity exists and see the contrast. And
until you see the contrast, you have no means to say to them, &ldquo;If
you&rsquo;ll turn to the left here and walk three steps, and turn to the
right and walk five steps, and now stand there for thirty seconds before
moving. Don&rsquo;t move.&rdquo; You can lead them out by knowing, in so
many words, exactly what to say, and when to say it, and when not to say
anything. But you will be speaking from a clarity of, or you could say,
seeing the infrastructure of their accumulated beliefs that they have
assembled in a crazy manner.

Again. This is important.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You cannot evaluate an insane belief system from WITHIN it. Its own
range precludes this. You can only go BEYOND it, look back from a point
where SANITY exists, AND SEE THE CONTRAST. Only BY this contrast can
insanity be judged as insane. With the grandeur of God in you, you have
chosen to be little and to lament your littleness. WITHIN the system
which dictated this choice the lament IS inevitable. Your littleness is
taken for granted there, &hellip;
</div>

You know. &ldquo;Oh, you know, I am so unworthy.&rdquo; Well, so many of
you just take that feeling for granted.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and you do NOT ask, &ldquo;Who granted it?&rdquo; The question
is meaningless within the ego&rsquo;s thought system because it opens
the WHOLE thought system to question.
</div>

And that&rsquo;s all the ego is, is a thought system. A collection of
ideas, beliefs, concepts that have been put together in some
semi-logical order, and then accepted and believed and acted upon. But
the question, &ldquo;Who granted what you&rsquo;re taking for
granted?&rdquo;, calls that whole structure into question.

When you hesitate and say, &ldquo;But, Father, what&rsquo;s the Truth
here?&rdquo;, it calls that whole thought system into question, and
opens up the door for you to find yourself experiencing the Perspective
of Reality that it&rsquo;s your Birthright to be experiencing. Because
in the absence of keeping your ego in office, like a elected official,
you&rsquo;ve withdrawn your vote of confidence in it and placed it
elsewhere&mdash;in the Holy Spirit, or an Awakened Brother, or the
Father. One who speaks on your behalf, knowing Who You Really Are, so
that your investment of attention to that Source has one effect, and
that is to restore your Mind to its Wholeness, so that you are no longer
governed by a tiny sense of yourself that was the best thing you could
come up with through the use of your imagination once you were quote
&ldquo;unplugged from God&rdquo; unquote.

The Holy Spirit sees you as You Really Are. And your Function here with
your Brother and Sister is to see them as They Truly Are.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[Raj starts reading from the first paragraph read today.]
{: .omit}

God&rsquo;s Will is your salvation. Would He not have given you the
means to find it? If He wills you to HAVE it, He must have made it
possible and very easy to obtain it.
</div>

Well, what are the means? Your Brothers.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your brothers are everywhere. You do not have to seek far for salvation.
</div>

But as I also said, you don&rsquo;t have to make a work ethic out of
this. The pleasant people around you, you still aren&rsquo;t seeing all
of What Is Really There. You see what I&rsquo;m saying? So the
opportunity to be open to the fuller experience of What Is God Is Being
right there, is available to you with someone who&rsquo;s being
pleasant. Remember that. And remember when you smell the roses&mdash;and
they&rsquo;ll be blooming very shortly&mdash;that it&rsquo;s a Divine
Experience for you to have the fuller experience of than you&rsquo;ve
been having. So let the experience of pleasure, of fun, of joy, be your
opportunities for seeing the more of what&rsquo;s there than your
current beliefs and definitions are allowing you to see. Pleasant
relationships can be the occasion for awakening just as unpleasant
relationships can be. So don&rsquo;t make things hard for yourself by
devoting yourself to the unpleasant situations to such a degree that you
hesitate to engage in a little bit of joy and pleasure and fun, as
though they constitute playing hooky from what counts. Because those
experiences offer you just as much opportunity for insight and
revelation and for the Holy Spirit to disclose to you your Function of
recognizing God in those experiences as well.

Okay.

I look forward to being with you next week.

[^1]: T9.5 Salvation and God's Will

