---
title: Mar 27, 2005
ref: "T9.5 Salvation and God's Will"
alink: "/acim/text/09/chap0905/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who is joining us on the Internet.

For some of you Easter is over, but for most of you it is still Easter.
And I&rsquo;m going to ask a rhetorical question of everybody:
&ldquo;How much of today did you spend embodying Friday?&rdquo; In other
words, how many of you were actively or quietly engaged in crucifixion
processes &mdash; either crucifying yourself or crucifying someone else?
How many of you didn&rsquo;t move into resurrection day today &mdash;
your own or the support of another&rsquo;s? Just tuck that question
away.

Would anyone like to wish me a Happy Easter? Thank you. It was a day of
Joy, and it is a day of Joy.

To sort of tie the whole thing up in a simple nutshell, my birth was the
first time that the divine Idea of God was successfully introduced into
the human condition. Oh yes, you had seers and prophets. You had those
who believed in God. But no one was yet willing to be what could be
called &ldquo;God with us&rdquo; &mdash; meaning with everyone in the
human condition. You might say no one up to that point had been willing
to step up to the plate and embody God rather than the human ego concept
of existence. That made what you call Christmas a significant date, an
event that was of universal significance because now there was someone
stepping up to the plate who wasn&rsquo;t going to embrace and continue
all the concepts of human existence, which God was left out of other
than the simple act of observing and honoring His Presence &ldquo;out
there&rdquo; somewhere.

And then, of course, you all have various records of my life as I grew
up, and the things I did and the things I didn&rsquo;t do. I had plenty
of opportunity to be distracted, just like every single one of you has.
And the only benefit I had that you don&rsquo;t have is that I was never
allowed to forget my Source, my divine Source &mdash; a Source beyond
the human condition, a Source beyond mere copulation and the development
of an embryo through what everyone else would call the normal processes.
My mother was, as I&rsquo;ve said before, an excellent Jewish mother and
she did not let me forget when I was tempted to quote &ldquo;be like
everyone else,&rdquo; join the crowd.

You don&rsquo;t have a remembrance at the moment, which is why we get
together to talk about remembering and for me to provide you with the
imagery and ideas that help you to remember, that inspire
&ldquo;Aha&rsquo;s,&rdquo; little light bulbs going on, even if
it&rsquo;s just simply, &ldquo;Wow! Maybe that&rsquo;s true. Maybe what
he&rsquo;s saying is true. I don&rsquo;t see it, but, you know, maybe
it&rsquo;s true.&rdquo; That&rsquo;s a little crack in your defenses, in
your assuredness that you understand what you Are and what everything
else Is. It creates a weakness in the shell, so to speak, in the ego
structures. It helps you to imagine that there&rsquo;s a box that
there&rsquo;s an outside to, that you&rsquo;re caught inside of. You
see? Something that wouldn&rsquo;t occur to you spontaneously.

Now we come to Easter, what you have come to call Easter. You have had,
in my life up to that point, a record of my remembering who I Was
&mdash; and not abandoning it in favor of the status quo &mdash; and my
willingness to embody God and to inspire in others an awareness that God
is their Source. And that all the things that I was doing, they could do
also &mdash; that what was natural to me was natural to them.

But I will tell you, they were still very caught up in their already
existing definitions and concepts about themselves. They still saw
themselves as &ldquo;matter bodies.&rdquo; They had difficulty grasping
that they were Ideas in the Mind of God, that the infinite Mind that God
Is was their Source, and that everything about them was Spirit, not
matter. And so part of the success, if you want to put it this way, of
my being present in that day was to provide them what you would call
physical proof that the physical is Spirit, else they would not have had
the evidence needed to help them break the habit, skip the tracks of
their habit of how they thought about themselves, and to see themselves
from outside the box.

The crucifixion was nothing. I mean they all understood crucifixions.
They called for crucifixions. They watched crucifixions. They cheered
when the one crucified died. It was a part of the fiber of their
community. That wasn&rsquo;t special, but the Resurrection was.

And what I want you all to be aware of is the significance in the fact
that the Resurrection was a Resurrection of what? A physical body
&mdash; what would be called a physical body. How was this significant?
Because I&rsquo;ll tell you something, matter cannot be resuscitated.
Matter cannot be regenerated. Matter cannot be transfigured. Matter
cannot be healed. It is generally accepted in the current belief system
that when I resurrected I was beyond the human condition, that
everything about me was Spirit. And yet, there was my figure,
recognizable, except to Mary initially in the garden.

This is important, because I keep telling you that your body is the
Visibility and Tangibility of your Individuality. And your Individuality
is God-derived and is therefore Eternal. That which renders it visible
and tangible is equally Eternal, is equally Divine. And that&rsquo;s one
of the things you have evidence of in the Easter story &mdash; the event
commemorated by Easter. It demonstrated that what you call &ldquo;the
body&rdquo; survives death. That which identifies you and renders you
experienceable survives this element of existence that is seen only
through or in the human condition &mdash; the experience of death, the
event of death. It&rsquo;s only seen in the state of ignorance that you
are in when you have forgotten what your Source is, and therefore what
you Are.

Another aspect of it that&rsquo;s important not to overlook is, that
this state conceived to be beyond the human condition is present right
where the human condition seems to be going on. After the resurrection,
there was no ball of Light with an opening in it that was obviously
otherworldly or different, that anyone who wanted to see me could enter
into and in this rare and refined environment, see that I still existed.
No. I was right in the same room. I could be touched. We could hug. I
could be felt. You see?

Every moment you are confronted with Reality and nothing else, right
here and right now. Right now everything that you are experiencing is
the Kingdom of Heaven experienced clearly or through a glass darkly, you
could say clearly or through the lens of the human condition. So my
presence after the crucifixion and after the resurrection, was a
demonstration of the fact that all of you are in the middle of the
Kingdom of Heaven not recognizing it for what It is. But it&rsquo;s
there, just like I was there after the resurrection in form. But the
form wasn&rsquo;t matter. And the form had never been matter, even
before the crucifixion. And the form of everyone else, and the form of
everything else, had never been matter. You see?

So Easter provided the demonstration of the fact that Life is Eternal,
an unbroken Whole without parts called before and after, inside and
outside. Life is Eternal. And this Life that is Eternal is demonstrated,
or made obvious or experienceable by form, which is pure Spirit &mdash;
pure Spirit that configures itself to perfectly identify God&rsquo;s
Idea called you or me. And that&rsquo;s what&rsquo;s going on right now
today in every moment. Sort of gets you to think outside of the box,
doesn&rsquo;t it?

You know, I showed that the here and the hereafter are both here. The
Ultimate is the only thing going on.

Now comes the really significant point. My life that most of you are
familiar with is your life. When you read it &mdash; this is your life
&mdash; it&rsquo;s the process of Waking up and coming Home. You're here
for the same reason I was here &mdash; to not forget to embody God. To
remember to let God be present in you, not along with you, but as you,
and to come to a point where you desire not to have any other presence
of mind right where you are than God's Presence of Mind that is the only
thing you really Are, and to consciously neglect to continue to give
expression to what you think you are and what you think everything else
is, and how pleasant it makes things for you if you don't buck the
system by seeing things a different way from the way everyone else is
dreaming their life in the Kingdom of Heaven.

You&rsquo;re here to remember what you Are and to step up to the plate
and let the God of you, let the God-ness of you be what finds expression
in your words, in your thoughts and in your actions.

You&rsquo;re never ever going to get away from Visibility and
Tangibility. In other words, what has been called form. What you are
going to get away from is the way you&rsquo;ve been defining form as
matter, instead of Spirit which is purely and utterly divine and of God.
If you were able to manage to get beyond form, you would have managed to
get beyond Creation. And I&rsquo;ll tell you that is a void, that is an
emptiness, if there ever could be such a thing. Creation, the Movement
of God, is absolutely experienceable &mdash; experienceable in an
infinitude of ever new form and expression.

Oh, yeah, I guess you could say that the Ascension proved that there was
no form because then I moved beyond form into the formless &mdash; some
sort of blissful experience that everyone imagines. But I&rsquo;m going
to tell you something: The reason everyone imagines that beyond the
human condition and beyond even the state of resurrection there is some
sort of formless bliss, the only reason you think that, is because if
it&rsquo;s true and you can get there, it will mean that you won&rsquo;t
have to step up to the plate and embody the Presence of God, instead of
the presence of your definition of yourself. It&rsquo;s a cop-out.

I have never been bodiless. I have never, in other words, been
unidentified or unidentifiable. And none of you will be either. The
moment any of you becomes unidentifiable, God will have become
unidentified. And that would mean that God would have to become less
than God and that is an impossibility.

Everyone had better simply accept the fact that there isn&rsquo;t a
formless bliss, and that right now with all of the forms you&rsquo;re
experiencing, you&rsquo;re in the middle of the Kingdom of Heaven. And
every single thing you&rsquo;re experiencing is divine. And the
substance of everything you&rsquo;re sitting on, or feeling, or moving,
is Spirit moving at the behest of Mind. They are Ideas moving at the
direction of the Mind that formed them.

&ldquo;Yes. Uh huh. Yeah.&rdquo; You say, &ldquo;Well, you [Jesus] said,
&lsquo;I go before you to prepare a place for you.&rsquo;&rdquo; Well, I
was preparing a place for you while I was here. I was preparing you for
a place while I was here. I was preparing you for the Kingdom of Heaven
you were already in, that you didn&rsquo;t dream was within your grasp.
I went before you in time, we&rsquo;ll say. I went before you so that
you might have the need to be the Presence of God since you
couldn&rsquo;t pawn it off on me. My absence meant more capital
&ldquo;S&rdquo; Self-reliance would be called for. You would have to
lean within. You would have to go to the Place of Excellence in you, the
Altar in you, and bring your devotion there, because that Place of
Excellence in you is the Holy Spirit, which is nothing more than your
right Mind.

Even now, you know, you notice that I don&rsquo;t take responsibility
for you. I point you always in the direction of becoming more alive to
What You Divinely Are, and point you in the direction of taking hold of
it and practice leaning into it, and listening, so that what? You might
be infilled with it! And so that it might overflow you and get extended
to your Brothers and Sisters while you&rsquo;re still here, so that God
gets clearly what? Embodied. Body, body, body, body, body&mdash;embodied
here and now so that the Light That God Is might illuminate your world,
your definition of the world, and uncover to you that it is the Kingdom
of Heaven, and that you are the Christ, that you are the Son and
Daughter&mdash;the Direct Expression of God. There isn&rsquo;t another
place to go.

&ldquo;What? No way to get out of the human condition?&rdquo; You know,
well, what is the human condition? Is it the world? Is it Israel? Is it
Iraq? Is it China? Is it the U.S.? No. Remember, the human condition
isn&rsquo;t something you&rsquo;re in. The &ldquo;human condition&rdquo;
is something you&rsquo;re looking at the Kingdom of Heaven through. The
human condition is all of the concepts and definitions that you&rsquo;ve
either made-up or received from elsewhere, and adopted as your own. And
it&rsquo;s the sieve, the filter, through which you interpret the
experience of the Kingdom of Heaven.

The human condition is better described as the human conditioning of
what? Your mind, that causes you not to see clearly, but through a glass
darkly; to see the Kingdom of Heaven with distortions that you are
convicted about, you are convinced about, and that you are devoted to.
No, there&rsquo;s no way to get out of the human condition that
you&rsquo;re surrounded by, because there ain&rsquo;t no human condition
you&rsquo;re surrounded by. There&rsquo;s a human conditioning of your
mind with which you&rsquo;re coloring your experience of the Kingdom of
Heaven.

&ldquo;And how do you get out of that?&rdquo; You get out of that by
reaching beyond it. &ldquo;Where to? Some spiritual realm?&rdquo; No.
You turn within to the Altar, the Place of Excellence in you, quietly,
I&rsquo;m going to say mindfully&mdash;not thinkingly, just
mindfully&mdash;the presence of attention&mdash;and you desire to know
of the Holy Spirit what the Truth is, or [to know of] God what the Truth
is. You turn to a point that never left you, because there&rsquo;s no
way, no matter how differently you defined yourself, for you to not be
the only thing you were created to be, or the only thing that the Father
Is Being You As at this moment.

Before the Resurrection, everyone thought they were in a box. They
thought they knew how things worked, and what the parameters were. But
after the Resurrection, there was an outside to the box. There was an
outside of the box that was still present inside the box. They could see
it inside the box! Somebody who was in the afterlife was still in the
box. You see?

And of course, it was too hard for many to believe. And many
didn&rsquo;t believe it. And today it&rsquo;s still hard for many to
believe, and they still don&rsquo;t believe it. &ldquo;Oh, it&rsquo;s
just a religious belief, you know. The Christians all believe that
junk.&rdquo; But the demonstration was there.

And you know what? My life was a demonstration of the first&mdash;this
is not the best choice of words&mdash;but the first insertion of
Divinity into the human condition that could be recognized from within
the human condition by those experiencing the human condition. And then
the crucifixion, Resurrection, and Ascension set the contents of my
life, the content of the Presence of God in the human condition. It set
it, we&rsquo;re going to say, in concrete. Something was accomplished
from beginning to end, that until the end, hadn&rsquo;t been
accomplished. But what was accomplished was the breaking of the
perceived absoluteness of what everyone called the human condition or
life. And it was done forever.

Not any one of you has to break or undo the belief in material life. It
doesn&rsquo;t need to be done again. It was done forever. That&rsquo;s
why you could say it was done for you. It doesn&rsquo;t need to be
accomplished again. Because it was done, it means that each one of you
at this moment is free to wake up, because you don&rsquo;t have to break
the boundary. The boundary was broken, and the boundary is gone.

That is what makes the commemoration of Easter important, because it
keeps present for you the opportunity to go ahead and wake up, to get
the picture, to get the idea so that you willingly inquire outside the
box on a regular basis, so that you willingly dare to let yourself be
What You&rsquo;re Here To Be. What you exist for, in other words.
You&rsquo;re not here to be something as opposed to being some place
else being what you&rsquo;re supposed to be. You&rsquo;re here. You
exist for a reason, and that is to give voice to God, to give expression
to God, to let God express right where you are.

I&rsquo;m talking to you right now. It&rsquo;s a demonstration that
there is life after death. But it&rsquo;s not the same kind of
demonstration that my physical presence would have. And it&rsquo;s not
the same as it did have after the Resurrection.

I am not appearing physically right now because it would give you a
significant distraction. You would begin to think of me as form. You
would have a memory of my image in your mind. And you would begin to
think of me as &ldquo;he&rdquo; and &ldquo;him,&rdquo; instead of the
Presence of Love, instead of as the Presence of Mind that loves you so
much that it wants you to recognize the Presence of Mind that you are,
and that that is the Presence of God, and that this Presence of Mind is
what is rendered Visible and Tangible by the gathering of Spirit in a
form that renders you experienceable&mdash;visible, in other words, you
could say. You see?

It is time to get out of the human condition. But remember, remember
this. The human condition is the human conditioning that has been
placed, like colored glasses, in front of your awareness that causes you
to see the Kingdom of Heaven in Its Divinity as though it were just a
physical, material universe that has nothing to do with God and that
someday you will transcend.

You know what? If you were going to transcend it, if that was going to
happen, after the Resurrection you would not have seen a body. You might
have heard a deep Voice coming out of the ethers, like in a séance, that
everyone could hear&mdash;eerie, mysterious&mdash;but bodiless, not
embodied. If that were what you needed to learn about remembering Who
You Are and coming Home to the Father, that is what would have happened.

What happened though demonstrated exactly what the facts are. There is
Life after death, and it still is identified and identifiable and
huggable, without the impediments that were associated with form when it
was conceived to be matter and misinterpreted and treated
inappropriately, because it wasn&rsquo;t seen as Spirit and it
wasn&rsquo;t seen as Spirit gathered in a configuration that identifies
the Divine One That You Are perfectly. And I&rsquo;m telling you right
now that the Identification of you that Spirit configures as, is
perfect, and is, therefore more beautiful, more symmetrical, exuding the
Energy of Love [more] than you&rsquo;re experiencing right now.

And what did Easter demonstrate? That you don&rsquo;t have to wait to go
to the hereafter to experience it. That it&rsquo;s time now to
experience it. Because there is no hereafter. There&rsquo;s only the
here, and what the here divinely is in its Ultimacy&mdash;I know
there&rsquo;s no such word&mdash;but in its Ultimacy.

Understood correctly, Easter did away with the box. The box can never be
successfully reestablished. This is the good news. There is no matter.
All is Mind. Mind is God. And the Movement of Mind that God is, is
Creation. And Creation is recognizable to the Mind that moves and sees
Its Movement. It&rsquo;s experienceable by Mind. And the Substance of
every Idea in Mind is, for lack of better words, substantial&mdash;not
flimsy, not ethereal, not wispy, not almost recognizable because
it&rsquo;s so substanceless, but absolutely recognizable and
experienceable.

The story of my life is the story of your life. And because of what I
did, you can now know it, because you have something that happened from
outside the box that you were able to experience inside the box.
Everyone in that day was able to experience what was happening from
within the box&mdash;an out-of-the-box experience in the box. It&rsquo;s
mind-boggling. It&rsquo;s mind-boggling until you recognize that the box
was a figment of the imagination. All of the Ultimate, all of Heaven, is
going on inside the box, because Creation is Whole, and Creation is
Singular, and Creation is Infinite.

And there just ain&rsquo;t no place left for an independent and
different experience of life to go on. Either you&rsquo;re having a
different experience of the Kingdom of Heaven, or you&rsquo;re having an
Actual Experience of the Kingdom of Heaven, a Real Experience of it.
Either you are experiencing yourself as What You Really Are, or
you&rsquo;re not. But what you&rsquo;re not experiencing is [laughing],
I&rsquo;m going to say, a non-experience of something that does exist.
It doesn&rsquo;t make sense, does it? But that&rsquo;s called the human
condition. And that&rsquo;s what everybody has been living, and never
thinking outside of, never questioning.

So you already are, and always have been, outside the box. You&rsquo;re
the Mind in which Infinite Creation is experienced. It has never been in
a box. You have never been in a box.

But you can imagine a box and get into a very focused, tiny reverie
about what it&rsquo;s like to be inside this box. And you can
consciously ignore the rest. But that which is having this tiny,
infinitesimal reverie is Something Infinite. Remember, the dream has
been dispelled. Its capacity to command your attention, and keep you
bound in it, has been dispelled. And all you need to do is to bring a
little bit of curiosity into play to see beyond your imagined box,
boxes. A curiosity to see the more that&rsquo;s there than what
you&rsquo;re seeing.

The same old thing I&rsquo;ve been saying for a long time. But I
haven&rsquo;t brought it out from quite this standpoint that the
blockage to your Waking up is already gone, was actually already
dispelled in the Birth, crucifixion, Resurrection and Ascension. The
mystery was demystified. It&rsquo;s already been demystified. You might
be catching up on the demystification a little late, but it was
demystified. And you do not have to overcome the state of mind, the
state of the human condition that everyone was in that had never been
challenged, and that no one had ever thought to challenge, and which
therefore constituted a boundary of great density for everyone inside
the boundary. You&rsquo;re not undoing a fundamental illusion that
absolutely everyone is committed to. That&rsquo;s been done.

Let&rsquo;s go to the book. You might be surprised at how much this has
to do with Easter, even though the word &ldquo;Easter&rdquo; is never
used.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
We said before that the ego does not know what a real question is.[^1]
</div>

I&rsquo;m going to back up a little bit.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
With the grandeur of God in you, you have chosen to be little and to
lament your littleness. WITHIN the system which dictated this choice
&hellip;
</div>

(PAUL: I&rsquo;m sorry.)

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
With the grandeur of God in you, you have chosen to be little and to
lament your littleness.
</div>

See that was life before Christmas and Easter.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
WITHIN the system which dictated this choice the lament IS inevitable.
</div>

In other words, within the box, within the human conditioning that
served as a filter that distorted everything about the Kingdom of Heaven
that everyone was looking at.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
WITHIN the system which dictated this choice the lament IS inevitable.
Your littleness &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and I will say, everyone&rsquo;s littleness then &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is taken for granted there&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your littleness was taken granted. Everyone&rsquo;s littleness
was taken for granted.

And:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your littleness is taken for granted there&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; within that filter system &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and you do NOT ask, &ldquo;Who granted it?&rdquo; The question
is meaningless within the ego&rsquo;s thought system because it opens
the WHOLE thought system to question.
</div>

You see, the Resurrection demonstrated that the here and the hereafter
are all here, that the limits that everyone thought were all there was
to life were pure imagination. In other words, it demonstrated that
there really wasn&rsquo;t a box at all.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; &ldquo;Who granted it?&rdquo; The question is meaningless
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; within the box &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; within the ego&rsquo;s thought system because it opens the
WHOLE thought system to question.
</div>

When you ask a real question, &ldquo;Father, help me,&rdquo; when you
ask a real question, &ldquo;Holy Spirit, what&rsquo;s really going on
here?&rdquo;, that&rsquo;s a real question because there is an answer to
it. But the ego doesn&rsquo;t recognize it as a meaningful question
because you&rsquo;re not asking the question of the ego. Right? It only
sees meaningful questions as questions you bring to it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
We said before that the ego does not know what a real question is. Lack
of knowledge of any kind is always associated with UNWILLINGNESS to
know, and produces a total lack of knowledge &hellip;
</div>

A total lack of knowledge.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; simply because knowledge IS total.
</div>

You see, before the Birth and the crucifixion and the Resurrection and
the Ascension, everyone was unwilling to know more than the human
condition as it was thought to be, because no one had any place from
which to have an idea that went beyond it. You see? And so, they
didn&rsquo;t ask. They were embodying an unwillingness.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
NOT to question your littleness, therefore, is to deny ALL knowledge and
keep the ego&rsquo;s WHOLE thought system intact.
</div>

Wow. Well, it&rsquo;s true, isn&rsquo;t it? Man, oh man, the ego just
does not like to have the status of the status quo to be changed. I
mean, gee whiz, all I did was come in and share a little bit about God.
Ooh! It upset the ego&rsquo;s thought system. The Roman guards were
worried. The Jewish rabbis were worried. I was upsetting the apple cart,
you see. The ego wants to hold its thought system intact because it
cannot allow change. It cannot cope with change.

Now:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You cannot retain PART of a thought system because it can be questioned
ONLY at its foundation.
</div>

In other words, [laughing] I had to undo the box, not the things going
on inside the box. You see? The box, the human conditioning that served
as a filter that distorted everyone&rsquo;s clear experience of the
Kingdom of Heaven that they were in, needed to be identified for what it
was&mdash;a way of seeing that had been adopted, rather than actual
physical circumstances that were beyond everyone&rsquo;s control.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You cannot retain PART of a thought system because it can be questioned
ONLY at its foundation. And this must be questioned from &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; where?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; beyond it because WITHIN it its foundation DOES stand.
</div>

You see? I appeared after everyone knew I was dead. That&rsquo;s the
edge of the box, isn&rsquo;t it?

That was always the edge of the box. One edge of the box was where birth
happened, and when you got to the other edge of the box, that&rsquo;s
where death happened. And when you know that that&rsquo;s all there is,
there&rsquo;s no way to change, or have a new thought present itself.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You cannot retain PART of a thought system because it can be questioned
ONLY at its foundation. And this must be questioned from beyond it
because WITHIN it its foundation DOES stand. The Holy Spirit &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your right Mind &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; judges against the reality of the ego&rsquo;s thought system
merely because He knows its FOUNDATION is not true.
</div>

You see? The ego is nothing but the collected thoughts and theories and
beliefs that explain the edges of the box, and everything in between. It
does not conceive of there being anything outside it, before it, above
it.

So someone, who was not within the box, had to speak apparently within
the box and be in a way that demonstrated that the box didn&rsquo;t
really exist. And that&rsquo;s what the Birth, crucifixion, Resurrection
and Ascension did.

And what it did was illustrate the Truth About You to you so that you
might abandon the box, so that you might abandon determining yourself to
be a hunk of matter that came forth from material processes that had
nothing to do with a God and that are governed by the laws of matter
instead of the Laws of Spirit, who are bound to be born, grow up, grow
old, grow ill, and die. Where healing cannot occur because it&rsquo;s
not built into the system. You see? But it isn&rsquo;t true, because
form is Spirit. And because Spirit has as Its Function to conform to,
configure to the Ideas that God sets into place, it is not bound to
carry out death processes. And it is not bound to not, shall I say,
re-conform visibly as that which is perfectly whole and healthy where
deterioration or injury or accident had been before.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit judges against the reality of the ego&rsquo;s thought
system merely because He knows its FOUNDATION is not true. Therefore,
nothing that arises from it means anything.
</div>

You see? We started talking about the Holy Spirit. We&rsquo;re talking
about the Real You. Your attention is being pointed outside the box.
Your attention is being directed to That Which Knows The Truth, that is
at the bottom line, for lack of better words, the Real You right now.

So, we&rsquo;re talking about something outside of the box&mdash;the set
of definitions that you have been using to understand who and what you
are. You see? You have definitions. &ldquo;Yeah, you&rsquo;re a physical
body. Yeah, it can be injured. Yeah, it can get old. Yeah, you can
mistreat it and it will suffer. And yeah, if you do it too much or too
badly, you can go beyond the point of return.&rdquo; You see? It&rsquo;s
not true. We&rsquo;re going outside the box here.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your Real Mind &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; judges against the reality of the ego&rsquo;s thought system
merely because He knows its FOUNDATION is not true.
</div>

There is no box. There are no edges.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Therefore, nothing that arises from it means anything. The Holy Spirit
judges every belief you hold in terms of where it comes from. If it
comes from God, He knows it to be true. If it does not, He knows that it
is meaningless.
</div>

There ain&rsquo;t no box.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Whenever you question your value&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in other words, whenever you look at yourself through your
human conditioning that causes you to see what&rsquo;s called a human
condition.

&hellip; say:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&ldquo;God &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; uh oh. That went right outside the box, didn&rsquo;t it?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&ldquo;God Himself is incomplete without me.&rdquo;
</div>

&ldquo;Ahhh, well, that doesn&rsquo;t make sense at all, because we
talked about outside the box, but I&rsquo;m inside the box.&rdquo; You
see? No. There ain&rsquo;t no box. And that&rsquo;s what the Birth and
the crucifixion and the Resurrection and the Ascension demonstrated.
There ain&rsquo;t no box. There ain&rsquo;t no material life. There
ain&rsquo;t no matter. It&rsquo;s all the Kingdom of Heaven, right here,
right now, seen clearly or not. But you&rsquo;re never seeing something
else.

And you aren&rsquo;t ever anything else, anything other than the Christ
seeing it clearly or not clearly. You&rsquo;re never anything less than
exactly what God is embodying of Himself right where you are, even
though the Totality of It is not being consciously embraced by you,
because you&rsquo;d rather be tiny and have your own personal
perspective and enjoy the thrill of being out of your right Mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Whenever you question your value, say:

&ldquo;God Himself is incomplete without me.&rdquo;
</div>

I did not do this during the flogging and the trip up the hill with the
cross. I didn&rsquo;t question my value, but it would have been easy.

I could have said, &ldquo;What a fool I&rsquo;ve been. I&rsquo;m so out
of sync with everything in this world that I shouldn&rsquo;t be
surprised that I&rsquo;m being treated this way. What an asshole I have
been. I could have had such a pleasant life, like everybody else.&rdquo;
No.

When you turn to the Holy Spirit, when you go within to the Altar within
and you reach out, you&rsquo;re expressing a devotion to that place
where you&rsquo;re bringing your attention. And you express the devotion
by actually bringing your attention there.

And I never wavered in my having my attention throughout Good Friday on
God, and letting Him be me. I embodied the statement, &ldquo;God Himself
is incomplete without me.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Remember this when the ego speaks&hellip;
</div>

Yeah. And there was a lot of ego speaking as I went along the streets,
and the jeers and the taunts, and you know, to say nothing of the
determination that I was to die from the reverent authorities.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Remember this when the ego speaks, and you will not hear it. The truth
about you is so lofty that nothing unworthy of God is worthy of you.
</div>

Which means that all of your private little thoughts that you enjoy so
much, all of the thoughts of tininess and belittling that you engage in
about yourself and others, they&rsquo;re not worthy of you because you
are not matter. You&rsquo;re not a physical organism. Every evidence of
Life throughout your body is the Movement of Spirit, governed by the
Laws of God with one Intent&mdash;to identify the Presence of your
Individuality perfectly.

Again.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The truth about you is so lofty that nothing unworthy of God is worthy
of you. Choose, then, what you want in these terms&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; don&rsquo;t be wishy-washy about it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Choose, then, what you want in these terms, and accept nothing that you
would not offer to God as wholly fitting for Him, for you do not WANT
anything else.
</div>

You don&rsquo;t really want anything else.

You&rsquo;re just so damn sure that there is a box, and that things work
the way you think they work, and that there&rsquo;s a beginning and an
end, and probably not anything else. But certainly, if there is
something else good, it&rsquo;s outside the box. It&rsquo;s after the
end. It&rsquo;s when you get to the edge where it&rsquo;s called death.
And it&rsquo;s beyond that, somewhere.

No. There ain&rsquo;t no box. And the Kingdom of Heaven and the
Wholeness Of You is inside and outside this artificial boundary that
everybody believes is real, and which my life undid forever.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Choose, then, what you want in these terms, and accept nothing that you
would not offer to God as wholly fitting for Him, for you do not WANT
anything else. Return your part of Him&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the part that you are.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Return your part of Him, and He will give you all of Himself in exchange
for your return of what belongs to Him and renders Him complete.
</div>

That&rsquo;s what the crucifixion, Resurrection, and Ascension did. It
returned to God what was God&rsquo;s by publicly, we will say, in a way
that could be recognized by everyone that a choice was made to honor God
rather than the status quo. The choice was made to be outside of the
limits of the box everyone at that time thought they were confined by.
And it was more important to do that than to conform. I made the choice
to return to God the part of Him that was His, that was me. That&rsquo;s
what it demonstrated. Even right up to the bitter end, I did not yield
to the demand to conform to the laws of man. In other words, to the
framework of the human condition; the beliefs and belief structures of
the human condition.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Return your part of Him, and He will give you all of Himself in exchange
for your return of what belongs to Him and renders Him complete.
</div>

That&rsquo;s what my life illustrated/embodied.

You hear that word? Use that word, &ldquo;embodied.&rdquo; Don&rsquo;t
be afraid of being embodied. Remember that if God is not embodied, there
is no Creation. If God is not expressed, there is no Creation. And God
without Creation, is an oxymoron&mdash;senseless, meaningless.

My life, and apparent death, Resurrection, and Ascension forever changed
the world. Join me and use your life for that. The hard work was done, I
assure you. And I will continue to say, &ldquo;Come on, guys! Come on,
guys!&rdquo;

I love you. And I look forward to being with all of you next week.

Okay.

[^1]: T9.5 Salvation and God's Will

