---
title: Apr 3, 2005
ref: "T9.6 Grandeur versus Grandiosity"
alink: "/acim/text/09/chap0906/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who is joining us on the Internet.

Well, you all love to think, don&rsquo;t you? And what you don&rsquo;t
realize is the devastating effect it has on your Experience of Being.
You also do not realize the temporary beneficial effect it can have on
your lives. I say &ldquo;temporary&rdquo; because thinking used
intelligently quickly helps you move to a point beyond thinking.

There&rsquo;s been a heavy subject of death presented to all of you over
the last couple of weeks. And when you leave tonight, I&rsquo;d like you
to contemplate how you used your mind over this past week and a half as
you were confronted with the subject of death. I&rsquo;m also going to
ask you to contemplate how consistent your thinking was with what we
discussed last week.

You know, God has withheld nothing of What He Is from His
Self-Expression called you. But there are three things you didn&rsquo;t
get&mdash;they weren&rsquo;t things He could give. But the three things
you didn&rsquo;t get were sin, sickness, and death. If they
weren&rsquo;t given to you, they&rsquo;re not your Birthright. If
they&rsquo;re not your Birthright, then any one of them as a topic of
thought is useless and meaningless.

At the bottom of the screen on your TV, [said somberly] &ldquo;The
Pope&rsquo;s condition is very grave.&rdquo; How many of you thought,
&ldquo;Oh dear!&rdquo; [laughing] You see, I could say, &ldquo;You see
how lazy you are?&rdquo; But I&rsquo;m going to say, &ldquo;Do you see
that you&rsquo;re not quick enough to catch the suggestion?&rdquo; You
were invited into a concept that you shouldn&rsquo;t have allowed
yourself to be invited into, but rather you should have said,
&ldquo;That&rsquo;s ridiculous.&rdquo; When you said, &ldquo;Oh
dear,&rdquo; you were sending out a messenger, and your messengers
always come back to you confirming the purpose for which they were sent
out.

But there&rsquo;s another point you must realize. The messengers you
send out are the messengers that are teaching you about you. And when
you say, &ldquo;Oh dear,&rdquo; about anyone&rsquo;s grave condition,
you&rsquo;re saying, &ldquo;This is my inevitability.&rdquo; And
you&rsquo;re teaching yourself. Why? Because you didn&rsquo;t contradict
it. You acquiesced to it.

Earlier this evening I heard someone say, &ldquo;Well, he&rsquo;s
behaving like he&rsquo;s a young man.&rdquo; So it&rsquo;s,
&ldquo;Stupid him. You know, he&rsquo;s not a spring chicken
anymore.&rdquo; That&rsquo;s just another form of the same teaching.
It&rsquo;s the way you create [laughing] a grave condition that will
lead you to the grave.

Why talk about, why consider the fact that every single one of you is
the Christ? Why consider that every single one of you is the Direct
Expression of God? In other words, that you aren&rsquo;t a unique
dropping, we&rsquo;ll say&mdash;something [small laugh] left behind by
God that came from God, was made by God, but doesn&rsquo;t have anything
to do with God anymore&mdash;when you are at this instant and at every
instant, the living proof, you might say, the living evidence of a
Current and Living God.

You&rsquo;ve got to be more alert. The reason we consider these things
is so that you will, first of all, think better, use better thought
processes. And also so that you will dare to take time not to think, so
that you are not filling your mind with that which distracts you and
blocks you from the experience of the directness of God&rsquo;s Movement
of Creation right where you are in that moment&mdash;which has nothing
to do with sin, has nothing to do with sickness, or deterioration, or
death.

If you&rsquo;re going to be sloppy, you&rsquo;re going to have the
continued evidence of sloppy mindfulness&mdash;sloppy un-mindfulness.
And there&rsquo;s going to be no transformation. And you might as well
throw the book in your bookcase, and just go out and watch the footnotes
on your TV screens, and learn from there and be from there, and never
become an agent for change in quote &ldquo;the world.&rdquo; By what?
Thinking wonderful new things about it? No. By being in a new way
relative to it.

Now one can say, &ldquo;That&rsquo;s going to be a lot of work.&rdquo;
But just get your feet on the ground. You&rsquo;re thinking something.
Why not think the Truth? Why not think that which leads you into a
clearer Experience of Truth? Why not think that which allows you to have
enough Truth to become quiet, to go into the silence, and invite the
influx of the Direct Experience of What God Is Being right where you
are?

You all need new evidence in your life experience&mdash;in your life
experience. Not your life experience out there in the world, but in your
experience of everything.

If you&rsquo;ve been watching the TV, you know that once the Pope died,
certain ritualistic processes began, as though that were unique to the
church processes. But you want to know something? Certain ritualistic
processes began quite a while ago. In preparation for what? The death of
the Pope. [laughing] I mean, it&rsquo;s so expected that your TV
networks already had his obituary in the can on a shelf to be pulled
out. And why do they have it in the can, instead of responding in the
moment? So that another network doesn&rsquo;t beat them to the punch
with better coverage. How would you like your obituaries and a
reflection on your life to already be in the can today? Doesn&rsquo;t
that send out a message? Isn&rsquo;t that a messenger?

The whole human condition that we spoke about last week is made up of
this kind of already organized processes set in place to accommodate for
and account for everyone&rsquo;s death, including yours. And you already
have some things in the can about yours. &ldquo;Well, you&rsquo;re not a
spring chicken anymore. Well, you know, when you get to be that age,
you&rsquo;re very likely to have this condition, you know, because
there&rsquo;s nothing real about your body. It&rsquo;s just a hunk of
matter, and matter deteriorates. Matter is not eternal.&rdquo; And so
you accommodate for that, and you say, &ldquo;Well, okay, but I&rsquo;m
a Divine Idea of God. I, my soul, will survive.&rdquo; And so you find a
way not to feel too bad about the loss of the Visibility and Tangibility
of You because something will survive. And that very thought secures the
deterioration and death and disappearance of your body.

Except, you know, [laughing] you just have one giant surprise. The
moment death happens, you find out that although you&rsquo;re not with
everyone else, [laughing] you still have a body. You&rsquo;re still
fully identified. That which renders you Visible and Tangible is still
with you because it&rsquo;s where you are always.

So what was all this nonsense that you had gotten in the can about
yourself ahead of time that led you to not challenge the idea of your
mortality? And that led you not to challenge the idea that there&rsquo;s
matter at all. Why did you go through this week since last Sunday when
we spoke together, why did you go through this week and not challenge
what you saw and what you heard? Why did you let your feelings be moved
out of or from some level of compassion for this person going through
this thing called death? Why didn&rsquo;t you, with joy, remember what
we talked about last week and use that to replace the invitation? I gave
you an invitation last week. Why didn&rsquo;t you let that replace the
invitation that the news media was presenting to you?

You know, maybe you can say that it would have been unrealistic for you
to think that it might have been responsible for the Pope&rsquo;s
recovery, but, you know, what you can&rsquo;t talk away is the fact that
the way you used your mind, didn&rsquo;t move you any closer to the
Resurrection, didn&rsquo;t move you any closer to being one who gives
evidence of the Deathlessness of Being.

Now, am I scolding you? No. I&rsquo;m saying you missed an opportunity.
You missed an opportunity to experience insight at a time when everyone
was succumbing to a misunderstanding of what life is. And there was
succumbing to the ongoingness of the status quo. You didn&rsquo;t have
the joy of finding your freedom from the discouraging experience of
being a sheep following the leader, whoever it might be at the moment.
And as a result, you didn&rsquo;t become part of that which would shift,
not only your future, but the future of everyone else, because the
messengers you would have been sending out would have been like the
dominoes starting a new result.

How many of you, before the Pope passed on, began to already treat him
as though he wasn&rsquo;t here? &ldquo;Well, I wonder who the new Pope
is going to be? You know, I know some are more liberal, and others are
less liberal. And, you know, maybe we&rsquo;ll finally get a Pope that
will let the priests marry and maybe let women become priests.&rdquo;
Poor Pope John Paul. He&rsquo;s still alive! And like they did, they
accidentally rang the bells, while he was still alive, that announced
his death. And you&rsquo;re ringing the bells already, too. While
he&rsquo;s still alive you&rsquo;re saying, &ldquo;Well, I wonder what
it&rsquo;s going to be like with the new Pope?&rdquo;

Now, life is not that expendable. It&rsquo;s not kind or loving to
discount someone because, &ldquo;Oh, now there&rsquo;s an opportunity
for maybe some progressive change.&rdquo; [small laugh] Well, so much
for the wonderful obituaries the networks have put together.
You&rsquo;re already discounting his life because he didn&rsquo;t do
what maybe somebody will do now. And so your obituary of him is less
than lovely, less than complimentary. &ldquo;He did wonderful things,
but you know what? It&rsquo;s time for a new paradigm.&rdquo; [small
laugh]

How often do you hold someone&rsquo;s continuing existence responsible
for your lack? &ldquo;Well, at least when she goes, I&rsquo;ll have some
freedom from such-and-such.&rdquo; Or, &ldquo;When he dies, I&rsquo;ll
get his inheritance. I&rsquo;m really, I&rsquo;m really, really, really
in need.&rdquo; Which says, &ldquo;I wish he would die soon.&rdquo;

You see, when you begin to think without having listened for the Truth,
the result is confusing. The result is malicious. The result is
self-centered. The result is competitive. The result is insanity.

You know, in Peter Pan, Tinkerbell was dying, and all it took was
someone believing in fairies to bring her back to life. Well, of course,
everybody&rsquo;s too grown up to believe in fairies, right? And
everybody&rsquo;s too grown up to believe in not dying. You know too
much of the facts. But what you know is made up of confidences that are
sheer idiocy.

From within the level of ignorance, &ldquo;what you think&rdquo; is not
seen as idiocy. My telling you that it is idiocy is not a criticism of
you, but it&rsquo;s giving you a perspective from outside of the box
you&rsquo;re caught in. I say it so that you can say it, and thus not
buy into it willy-nilly, thoughtlessly.

There need to be growing numbers of people who watch the TV with news of
the sort that was on this past week, who are saying, &ldquo;That&rsquo;s
not the Truth,&rdquo; when the captions come on, or in somber voices
everyone speaks kindly and respectfully of somebody worthy of respect,
but they speak that way in &ldquo;the shadow of death.&rdquo; Of course,
when he&rsquo;s healthy and vital, [laughing] the respect goes out of
the way and a lot of criticism can come into play.

But, what if everyone, what if increasing numbers of people, confronted
with what was presented this past week and a half, were seeing it and
contradicting it in their mind, saying, &ldquo;That&rsquo;s ridiculous.
That&rsquo;s absurd. How could anyone believe this about the Visibility
and Tangibility, the Presence-ing of God, right there that is the only
thing that&rsquo;s going on, that has to be the only thing really going
on?&rdquo; Like Tinkerbell, when someone believed in fairies, was
resuscitated, the whole human mindset would be lifted, would become less
dense. And those messengers that you send out would come back with
increasing confirmation of their intent. And so the blessing you would
receive by extending the acknowledgement of Truth, and by the sending
out of the messengers of Truth, the blessing you would receive, because
that&rsquo;s what happens when you give it, would bless you as well as
the recipients. And a new movement would begin. And that&rsquo;s what
this is all about.

This isn&rsquo;t mind-control. This isn&rsquo;t manipulation. Because
remember, there&rsquo;s no matter to manipulate. There&rsquo;s only the
Substance of Spirit, which is what the Visibility and Tangibility of the
Presence of God is constituted of. So it&rsquo;s not matter that needs
to be changed. And it&rsquo;s not matter that can be manipulated,
because there ain&rsquo;t no such thing. But you might say the tone of
mind shifts and contributes, with a domino effect, the shifting of mind
in those who are likewise caught in their thinking.

So the question is, &ldquo;What are you doing with your mind?&rdquo;
What I&rsquo;m describing to you and what I&rsquo;m encouraging you to
become involved in will be much more satisfying and much more fulfilling
to you, because even though it involves thinking, it sets your mind on
the right track, on the right tone. It will reduce fear in you, because
you will not be confirming your own death knell as you confirm someone
else&rsquo;s. And as you begin to be lightened, as you are more
lightened up, you will find it easier to expect not death, not disease,
not deterioration, but more and more evidences of Life, more and more
evidences of what we&rsquo;ll call regeneration. Not regeneration of
matter, but regeneration&mdash;renewal of your mind, your mind habits,
and what you invite in to occupy it. And that, in itself, will be
Self-fulfilling Life pulsing, you might say, moving in you as a new you,
as you renewed, bringing you back into your original primitive State of
Divine Being, which has always been your Birthright to be experiencing.

Let&rsquo;s go into the book.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*Grandeur versus Grandiosity*[^1]
</div>

I&rsquo;m going to say one more thing.

There is talk of the disappearance of the Universe. It has presented
itself in the context of the teachings of A Course In Miracles. Let me
just set one thing straight. The only thing that is ever going to
disappear is, or the only things that are going to disappear are sin,
sickness, and death&mdash;the mortality of the Universe&mdash;the
potential for deterioration of the Universe and anything in it. The
capacity of any part of the Universe to be so at odds with itself that
it can become attached to being self-destructive, which is what sin is,
that is the only thing that can disappear. Look forward to the
disappearance of those. And let that be enough said about that.

Okay.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*Grandeur versus Grandiosity*

Grandeur is of God, and ONLY of Him.
</div>

Now, [little laugh] interesting sentence that follows.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Therefore, it is in you.
</div>

&ldquo;Oh. I thought it was of God and only of Him?&rdquo; It is,
because God is All There Is of You. What the Life-Principle is being,
what the Infinite (capital &ldquo;M&rdquo;) Mind is being, is You.
That&rsquo;s what It is being&mdash;You.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Grandeur is of God, and ONLY of Him. Therefore, it is in you.
</div>

Inseparable from you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Whenever you become aware of it, however dimly, you abandon the ego
automatically because, in the presence of the grandeur of God, the
meaninglessness of the ego becomes perfectly apparent.
</div>

How many of you have had an experience of the influx of what could only
be called the Presence of God, or the influx of a Divine Experience,
that lifted you spontaneously into a more Infinite Perspective in which,
in one way or another, you knew of the Perfection of absolutely
everything infinitely, and the fact that none of the Perfection, none of
the Infinite Perfection of Everything was separate or different from
you? When that happened, you abandoned the ego automatically. In other
words, you didn&rsquo;t think about it, and you didn&rsquo;t say,
&ldquo;Oh, wow! My ego is gone.&rdquo; You were touched fully, greatly,
largely, with the Experience of Truth. The meaningless[ness] of the ego
became perfectly apparent, [laughing] but you weren&rsquo;t thinking of
that. You stood in awe of the Meaningfulness of That Which Is Real.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Though it &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the ego &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; does not understand this, the ego believes that its
&ldquo;enemy&rdquo; has struck, and attempts to offer gifts to induce
you to return to its &ldquo;protection.&rdquo; SELF-inflation of the ego
is its alternative to the grandeur of God. Which will you choose?
</div>

I&rsquo;ll tell you one thing, the idea of choice will not enter into
your mind until you begin to think about the experience you had. And of
course, the minute you think about the experience, you have withdrawn at
least part of your attention from the experience, and you&rsquo;ve split
your mind. And then, because you love to think, and because you have
thought that thinking was your purpose in life, your tendency is to
shift fully back into thinking.

&ldquo;Wow. I&rsquo;m going to have to write a book about this
experience. It&rsquo;s so clear to me that I know I could write it so
beautifully that many people would love it. And it would be a
best-seller, and I would be set for life.&rdquo; Oh.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Which will you choose? Grandiosity &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and I&rsquo;m adding this: In contrast to Grandeur &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is ALWAYS a cover for despair. It is without hope because it is
not real. It is an attempt to counteract your littleness, based on the
belief that the littleness is REAL.
</div>

How do you counteract the littleness of your mortality? By believing
that in spite of all the evidence you&rsquo;ve seen, there must be
something intrinsically of value about you, certainly something
intrinsically of value about you that you didn&rsquo;t make-up about
yourself, because you really do know that you aren&rsquo;t able to truly
create anything of real value. And so you suppose that there must be
something else that created you, and it must be much bigger than you,
and it had better be something beneficent. And so you make-up a
&ldquo;God&rdquo; that is going to secure your ongoingness. That idea,
when it hasn&rsquo;t arisen out of a Direct Experience of God, is an
example of grandiosity, made as an attempt to overcome your littleness
and to give you a way out of the depression of the littleness of you.

Grandiosity &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is an attempt to counteract your littleness, based on the
belief that the littleness is REAL.
</div>

You see?

And I&rsquo;m coming along and I&rsquo;m saying, &ldquo;No. There
ain&rsquo;t no box. There is no littleness. You never were little. You
never will become big because you have always been whole.&rdquo;

Speaking of the belief that the littleness is Real, it continues:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Without this belief grandiosity is meaningless, and you could not
possibly want it.
</div>

Well, I&rsquo;m coming along and I&rsquo;m telling you that there is a
Place of Excellence in you. Grandeur is your nature. And so you can
abandon your attempts to create grandiosity, or to become grandiose, by
your own efforts. You can abandon it because it gets in the way of your
experiencing your innate Grandeur.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The essence of grandiosity is competitiveness, because it ALWAYS
involves attack. It is a delusional attempt &hellip;
</div>

Listen to this.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; to OUTDO, but NOT to undo.
</div>

You see? When you think you&rsquo;re in the box, you try to outdo the
conditions in the box, you try to outdo what others are doing in the
box, when what needs to be done is the undoing of the belief that there
is a box.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
We said before that the ego vacillates between suspiciousness and
viciousness. It remains suspicious as long as you despair of yourself.
</div>

Well, what else can it do? When you think you are little. When you think
you are a hunk of matter that just happens to have electrical synapses
occurring in a particular hunk of meat in your head, that you thereby
have this incredibly inconsistent experience of consciousness. And I say
&ldquo;incredibly inconsistent&rdquo; because Consciousness is about as
un-material as you can get. And the very idea that it arises out of
matter is ridiculous.

Well, as long as you believe that you&rsquo;re in the box, you
can&rsquo;t help but feel vulnerable. Why? I keep saying it so you can
keep remembering it. Because you have forgotten Who You Are. Because you
have divorced yourself from your Source and have blocked the Conscious
Awareness of your Source out of sight, so that you might have this
private experience for a while. And so, being vulnerable, you are
automatically suspicious about everything.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It remains suspicious as long as you despair of yourself. It shifts to
viciousness whenever you will not tolerate self-abasement and seek
relief.
</div>

Oh. So the minute you [small laugh] &hellip; the minute you look to
something else as the source of your information, it will become vicious
with you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Then it offers you the illusion of attack as a solution.

The ego does not know the difference between grandeur and grandiosity
because it does not know the difference between miracle impulses and
ego-alien beliefs of its own.
</div>

The reason it doesn&rsquo;t know the difference between those two is
because it doesn&rsquo;t experience miracle impulses. Miracle impulses
come from a different place&mdash;the Place of Excellence in
you&mdash;from That Which You Divinely Are&mdash;the Holy
Spirit&mdash;your Divinity held in trust while you dally with the ego.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
We once said that the ego IS aware of threat, but does not make
distinctions between two entirely different kinds of threat to its
existence. Its own profound sense of vulnerability renders it incapable
of judgment EXCEPT in terms of attack. When it experiences threat, its
only decision &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and remember, there were just two &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; its only decision is whether to attack NOW, or to withdraw to
attack later. If you accept its offer of grandiosity, it will attack
immediately. If you do not, it will wait.
</div>

And how does it attack? It attacks your capacity to have the experience
of your Grandeur by enticing you to become competitive with your
fellowman, or even competitive with yourself, setting you off on a track
of harsh self-improvement, because it&rsquo;s so greatly or sorely
needed. Why? Because you&rsquo;re so awful right now, but you&rsquo;re
not stuck with it. It says, &ldquo;You&rsquo;re not stuck with it. You
can improve yourself. You can learn how to be more successful in the
box.&rdquo;

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego is immobilized in the presence of God&rsquo;s grandeur because
HIS grandeur establishes YOUR freedom.
</div>

As I said, whenever any of you have had an Experience of Illumination,
you could say it overwhelmed you, but it overtook you without putting
you out of balance. And in Its Presence, you were free of your
conditioned thinking.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; HIS grandeur &hellip;
</div>

Which is yours.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; establishes YOUR freedom. Even the faintest hint of your
reality literally drives the ego from your mind because of complete lack
of investment in it. Grandeur is totally WITHOUT illusions, and because
it is real, it is compellingly convincing.
</div>

Why are we talking about this? Because it&rsquo;s an experience
available to you right now because it&rsquo;s your Birthright to be
experiencing it right now. And you would be experiencing it right now,
except for your conscious practice of thought processes that hold you to
be a hunk of matter that can sin, that can be subject to disease, and
that ultimately will die. And you keep reinforcing those.

But you wouldn&rsquo;t keep reinforcing them if you took what
we&rsquo;ve been reading about here about your Grandeur and about the
Place of Excellence in you, if you took it seriously and gave that more
of your consideration than you do the convictions you have of your
mortality, and your conviction that you have a matter-body. Maybe
it&rsquo;s a matter-body that behind it has a spiritual idea to support
it, or that behind it is something Real that you&rsquo;re not seeing
yet. But I keep bringing home to you that what&rsquo;s Real about your
body isn&rsquo;t behind what you&rsquo;re seeing. It is what
you&rsquo;re seeing, because there isn&rsquo;t anything else available
for you to see except the Visibility and Tangibility of your
Individuality, which is God-derived, and therefore, the visibility and
tangibility is the Visibility and Tangibility of God Himself! You see?

And let these ideas be repetitious. I repeat them. Let them be &hellip;
remind yourself of them frequently, because your reminding yourself of
it is a constructive use of your mind, even though it&rsquo;s still
thinking, because it puts in place in your mind something that is True,
even though the experience is still escaping you. But you&rsquo;re
closer to having the experience by having the Truth in your mind than
you are when you have an illusion in your mind that you&rsquo;re
convinced about.

Again.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Grandeur &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your Grandeur &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is totally WITHOUT illusions&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; right now! Right now the Grandeur of You is totally without
illusions. And it&rsquo;s not off in the future&mdash;the Grandeur of
You. It&rsquo;s inseparable from the experience of being Conscious.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Grandeur is totally WITHOUT illusions, and because it is real, it is
compellingly convincing. Yet the conviction of reality will not remain
with you unless you do not allow the ego to attack it.
</div>

How do you let the ego attack it? By beginning to think about what it
might mean for you to be Divine and what kind of power it might give
you. And what a tremendously impactful agent for change you could become
in the world if you embraced it because, of course, you would have a leg
up on everyone else who isn&rsquo;t aware of it yet, and you could let
them in on it slowly so they would be dependent upon you. And you could
be the prophet. And you could be the big guy. And you could get all the
praise and reverence, etc. You see, but the focus is on you, instead of
the giving of the Gift of Acknowledgement that illuminates
another&rsquo;s Reality to him.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the conviction of reality &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; about you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; will not remain with you unless you do not allow the ego to
attack it.
</div>

And I&rsquo;m saying by engaging in thinking&mdash;your favorite
practice.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego will make every effort to recover and mobilize its energies
AGAINST your release. It will tell you that you are insane, and argue
that grandeur CANNOT be a real part of you because of the littleness in
which IT believes.
</div>

But it won&rsquo;t say, &ldquo;I&rsquo;m trying to convince you of it
because I can&rsquo;t conceive of it.&rdquo; It will just try to
convince you because without your faith in it, it will die. It will
fizzle out.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet your grandeur &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; right here, right now, in these chairs as you sit.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet your grandeur is not delusional &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; why?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; BECAUSE you did not make it.
</div>

Whew! That&rsquo;s the marvelous answer.

Why can&rsquo;t the Truth about you be taken away from you? Because you
didn&rsquo;t make it. The fact that you&rsquo;re not responsible for
your existence, recognized is your salvation. Why? Because if
you&rsquo;re not responsible for your existence, you&rsquo;re not
responsible for making a success out of it. And you&rsquo;re not
responsible for keeping it going. And you&rsquo;re not responsible for
protecting yourself against everything that would assail it. You see?
Because you didn&rsquo;t make it, you don&rsquo;t have to do anything
about it, except allow it to be.

And when you abandon your project of protecting yourself and keeping
yourself alive, when you abandon that, your mind is free, available to
see What&rsquo;s Really Going On, to have the Presence of God register
with you because you&rsquo;re not constantly saying, &ldquo;Get out of
my face. Get out of my face. I need to reestablish what this really is
right here. I need to reestablish it. I need to reassert my sovereignty,
my personal sovereignty over the situation. Don&rsquo;t bother me with
this nonsense about that I need do nothing. Don&rsquo;t bother me with
this nonsense that Grandeur is already my nature.&rdquo; You see?

But if you even begin to talk that way, you would begin to feel it, and
you would begin to move into it and gentle down and soften, and become
less defensive, and therefore more permeable, if you will. And the
Experience of God as you, would begin to register with you.

The fact that you did not make anything that is Real about you, the fact
that you are not responsible for anything that is True about you, is the
key to your release from the compulsive attempt to overcome your
littleness. You see? There ain&rsquo;t no such thing as littleness about
you. There ain&rsquo;t no box.

And the fact that there isn&rsquo;t a box has already been demonstrated.
It doesn&rsquo;t need to be demonstrated again. You don&rsquo;t need to
reinvent the wheel, so to speak. It&rsquo;s already been invented. Now
you can enjoy the benefits of the wheel. Now you can enjoy the benefits
of experiencing being where there is no box.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
YOU &hellip;
</div>

Meaning your confused thinking.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; have made grandiosity and are afraid of it because it is a form
of attack&hellip;
</div>

You see, it&rsquo;s actually an attack on you. It could appear to be an
attack on God because it&rsquo;s used to deny God&rsquo;s Existence, but
it&rsquo;s an attack on you because it is a significant distraction from
your remembering Who You Are.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; but &hellip;
</div>

It says here.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; your grandeur is of God, Who created it out of His Love. From
your grandeur you can only bless because your grandeur is your
ABUNDANCE.
</div>

You see? It&rsquo;s Whole. Whole. It&rsquo;s a Singularity. It&rsquo;s
All-Inclusive. There&rsquo;s no outside to it. It&rsquo;s Infinitely
All-Inclusive.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
By blessing you hold it in your minds, protecting it from illusions and
keeping yourself in the Mind of God.
</div>

And you protect it from illusions by not entertaining
illusions&mdash;not by defending&mdash;but by just not giving your
attention there. You see, you just don&rsquo;t give attention to the
footnote at the bottom of the screen on the TV, which is someone
else&rsquo;s interpretation, someone else&rsquo;s thought, who
hasn&rsquo;t bothered to look outside the box, or even to realize that
there ain&rsquo;t no box.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Remember always that you cannot be anywhere EXCEPT in the Mind of God.
When you forget this, you WILL despair and you WILL attack.

[Repeats] Remember always that you cannot be anywhere EXCEPT in the Mind
of God.
</div>

As this little tiny you in the great big Mind of God? And you&rsquo;re
there in the Mind of God. Oh, that&rsquo;s very comforting, isn&rsquo;t
it, for littleness?

You are in the Mind of God because God conceived you. And in conceiving
you, embodied Himself&mdash;All That He Is. And so, you are the Mind of
God embodied. God&rsquo;s Mind embodied is you experiencing the Mind of
God.

God is Singular, but God isn&rsquo;t solitary. God is Singular in that
in the Allness of Mind That God Is, there&rsquo;s nothing unlike Mind.
There&rsquo;s nothing unlike God. But God&rsquo;s Conscious Experience
of Being is an Infinite Conscious Experience of Infinite Creativity.
Infinite Conscious Experiences of Visibility and Tangibility of Ideas
that are visible and tangible to the Mind that formed it. And so God is
infinitely filled with What God Infinitely Is. And it&rsquo;s an
experienceable experience. It&rsquo;s an experienceable Conscious
Experience. And it&rsquo;s specific and Universal simultaneously.

And this Mind that is so experiencing Itself is What God Is Being as
you. And so you, as Singular and as Whole as God, experience with God
What God Is Being. Not what little you is being, but what God-You is
being.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Remember always that you cannot be anywhere EXCEPT in the Mind of God.
</div>

And what all of you ultimately are wanting to do is to be conscious as
God Is Being Conscious, to be Conscious with God. And you do this by
abandoning all thoughts that you have engaged in, all fears that you
have engaged in, that distract you from purely seeing Everything As It
Is, and Yourself as well.

Now I&rsquo;ve mentioned the two prayers before. I wish to see the
Evidence of Love and I wish to be the Evidence of Love. And I think
there is still some confusion about that.

The prayer, &ldquo;I wish to see the Evidence of Love,&rdquo; think
about it. [pause] If it was the 1850&rsquo;s and, as with most people in
the U.S., you lived on the East Coast, you might have this dream of
going and seeing the Pacific Ocean. You would wish to see the Pacific
Ocean. Well, if you wish to see something, you go and look for it,
don&rsquo;t you? You go and find it. You wouldn&rsquo;t just sit on the
East Coast and say, &ldquo;I wish to see the Pacific Ocean,&rdquo; and
close your eyes and have an experience of the Pacific Ocean. You would
go and find the Pacific Ocean so you could experience the thunder of it,
and the beauty of it, and the sunset shining on it, and the moon
glistening on it, and the smell of the saltwater, and the smell of the
fish. You would go where the experience was to be had. You would look
for it.

When you are looking at a Brother or a Sister and you say, &ldquo;I wish
to see the Evidence of Love,&rdquo; it means you have to do something.
It means you, in your mind, must have the intent to look for the
Evidence of Love in them. You don&rsquo;t say, &ldquo;I wish to see the
Evidence of Love,&rdquo; and wait for them to evidence Love.

You don&rsquo;t watch that notice across the bottom of the TV screen,
&ldquo;The Pope&rsquo;s condition is very grave,&rdquo; and say,
&ldquo;Damn. I wish he knew more about the Truth than he does. What a
shame for him to have to die because he doesn&rsquo;t grasp that
he&rsquo;s the Christ, and that death was not given to him by God, and
suffering has nothing to do with Reality.&rdquo; Well, that&rsquo;s not
wishing to see the Evidence of Love, is it? It&rsquo;s a very
independent, sort of arrogant, sort of grandiose &hellip; it&rsquo;s a
little bit of grandiosity. &ldquo;Gee whiz! Too bad he doesn&rsquo;t
know what I know. He wouldn&rsquo;t have to die.&rdquo;

Except when you say, &ldquo;He doesn&rsquo;t know it, and therefore
he&rsquo;s going to die,&rdquo; you&rsquo;re saying, &ldquo;Death is
inevitable under some conditions, and therefore I&rsquo;m not
invulnerable to it.&rdquo; That&rsquo;s just a little aside.

But what&rsquo;s called for when you see these things is to say,
&ldquo;I wish to see the Evidence of Love,&rdquo; and then put in some
time looking for it. Spend some time getting your thinking in line with
the Truth, so that you are acknowledging that no matter how the Pope is
seeing himself, the Truth is that God is the Source of his Being and God
cannot die. And he is some part of the Infinitude of my Being, and
I&rsquo;m not dying, and therefore no part of me can seem to die. And I
don&rsquo;t have to buy into this illusion about me or about him.

You get your thinking in line with the Truth&mdash;that&rsquo;s the way
you look for the Evidence of Love. You have to look, not to him, but to
your capacity to know the Truth. And bring your thinking in alignment
with the Truth that you do know so that then you might have a moment
when you shut up to have the experience of it infill you, which will be
much easier to do than when, than if you have sat there and said,
&ldquo;Oh dear. Oh dear. What a shame. I am so sad.&rdquo; You see?

To be very frank with you, grandiosity is you having your own ideas and
favoring them&mdash;no matter how insane they are&mdash;more than
wanting to know the Truth and turning to the place where Truth is
available to you and looking for it&mdash;wishing to see the Truth,
wishing to grasp the Truth, so that you might let the Truth constitute
the messengers that you send out.

Now, have I said, &ldquo;Stop thinking entirely&rdquo;? No. For the time
being, I&rsquo;ve told you, &ldquo;Think constructively. Think in
alignment with the Truth.&rdquo; Why? So that you can powerfully make
changes? No. So that the arrogance of mental mind-control yields to the
humility of letting Truth be revealed to you, because you desire to know
God&rsquo;s Truth. Why? Because you are inseparable from God. His Mind
is the only Mind truly available to you to be experiencing, and you want
to be experiencing It so that that experience is what gets extended as
you look to see the Evidence of Love.

And so, when you wish to see the Evidence of Love, you&rsquo;re saying
that you wish to be the place where Love, the Acknowledgement of Love is
extended from. And when the Acknowledgement of Love is extended, you
become the Evidence of Love. And in that Singularity of your Mind,
miracles happen. Sudden shifts of perception occur. And transformation
happens.

One more thing to make it easier for you. You don&rsquo;t have to tell
anybody you&rsquo;re doing any of this. I didn&rsquo;t say, &ldquo;Go
out and sound like a fool in front of everybody.&rdquo; But speak, use
your mind to be heard of God and to hear of God, because it&rsquo;s what
goes on in your mind that constitutes the kinds of messengers
you&rsquo;re sending out, and what they will return with, which will
color your perception, or cause it to become less colored and more and
more clear.

Okay.

I love you all. And I look forward to being with you next week.

And I hope you all have a better week. And I hope the whole world has a
better week because you&rsquo;re having a better week. And sincerely,
watch how you use your mind, and watch your behavior. When you&rsquo;re
watching a screen that has only one intent behind there being something
to watch, and that is to move you to do whatever someone else wants you
to do that will make them money.

Good night.

[^1]: T9.6 Grandeur versus Grandiosity

