---
title: Apr 17, 2005
ref: "T9.6 Grandeur versus Grandiosity"
alink: "/acim/text/09/chap0906/"
---

Good afternoon. And welcome to everyone who is joining us on the
Internet.

I&rsquo;m going to start out with some good news. With all this talk
about the ego and how it&rsquo;s not your friend, and so on, together
with the sloppy way or careless way in which reference to the ego is
made, it can seem that you have become an ego. &ldquo;I am an ego. I
have actually become something different from What God Created. And
I&rsquo;m living out a life that expresses ego-hood.&rdquo; And this
definition of yourself as an ego becomes part of the box from which you
experience being.

And because, through careless thinking, you think of yourself as an ego,
and now you know that there&rsquo;s more to life than ego-hood, you
think that you have to overcome this thing called &ldquo;an ego.&rdquo;
And it makes it sound as though you have to abandon what you are, you
have to somehow stop being what you have become. It&rsquo;s possible for
you to begin to think that your waking up is going to be the extinction
of you, because the Real You is so radically different. And that&rsquo;s
not something an ego wants to do&mdash;become extinct. And so there is a
part of you that resists waking up, even though you are desiring to wake
up.

And of course, [there is] this idea that Individuality (which is another
word for Indivisibility) is going to disappear and you will drift into a
blissful, undefinable, pink cloud of bliss where there will be no
differentiation of any kind, just an experience of love and peace which
your common sense tells you is just a more pleasant form of and perhaps
a more beautiful form of a static experience&mdash;we could say a
pleasant form of being dead.

Now, I&rsquo;ve said before many, many times, the only thing that is
confronting you, the only thing available to you to experience is the
Kingdom of Heaven, which you&rsquo;re seeing clearly, or through a glass
darkly. That idea allows you to begin to be able to look at everything
with a curiosity you didn&rsquo;t have before, because you&rsquo;re
seeing the Ultimate&mdash;you&rsquo;re just not seeing it in its
Fullness. And it&rsquo;s easy for you to imagine that your capacity to
see it more fully as What It Is, is available to you, and the only
reason you haven&rsquo;t been experiencing it was because what you
thought it was, was the only thing you thought it was, and there was no
alternative to it.

Now, the equivalent of this, that will also be helpful to you, is for
you to understand that you right now are the Christ, the Christ Mind,
the Christ Consciousness, seeing everything clearly, or through a glass
darkly. You&rsquo;re not an ego seeing things clearly or through a glass
darkly. In other words, you are the Ultimate right now, experiencing the
Ultimateness of you fully, or in a very limited fashion.

So you&rsquo;re not here to struggle to become the Christ. You&rsquo;re
already that. You are already the Presence of Mind. You know, something
happens, an emergency occurs, and somebody jumps in and does all the
right things, while other people are standing around, dazed a little
bit, immobilized, and people say, &ldquo;Well, he had the presence of
mind to respond appropriately.&rdquo; That&rsquo;s what the
&ldquo;Presence of Mind&rdquo; is when I use that word.

You are the Presence of Mind. Not the Presence of a thing called a Mind,
but the Presence of active Conscious Awareness, from which nothing
escapes, in which everything is experienced, and experienced with
correct perspective so that you are able to be appropriate at every
moment.

Now, what I want to convey most clearly to you is that right at this
moment, that is What You Are. You are the Presence of Mind in which
every experience is available to you to see with clear perspective, True
Perspective, and to be able to be appropriate at any given moment, at
every moment. Either that is what is going on right now, or something
less than that is going on right now. But the fact that something less
than that is going on doesn&rsquo;t mean that you have become less.
It&rsquo;s like you sitting in these chairs suddenly realizing that you
don&rsquo;t just have to sit there. You have two legs. You can stand up,
and you can run, and you can walk, and you can dance. It&rsquo;s as
though a capacity is present that it hasn&rsquo;t occurred to you to
utilize yet.

Do you see, though, that what I&rsquo;m saying is that the Ultimate of
You is present, being embodied ultimately, or less than ultimately?
You&rsquo;ve already arrived, because you never left What You Are. You
never managed to become so out of sync with Reality that you became
something brand-new that God never created.

Now if the Kingdom of Heaven is what you&rsquo;re experiencing right
here, right now, and if you are the Presence of Mind that is God, then
all that&rsquo;s left for you to do in order to wake up is to realize
that it&rsquo;s utterly easy, because you are already what you hope to
become. And every thing is already the Kingdom of Heaven. And
you&rsquo;re in it, and it&rsquo;s in you, because the Kingdom of Heaven
is within you. So, no struggle. None of this is about struggle. None of
this is about becoming.

As you go through this next week, I want you to carry this with you, and
I want you, many times a day, as often as you can remember, to entertain
the idea consciously, &ldquo;I&rsquo;m in the middle of the Kingdom of
Heaven. I&rsquo;m already in the Ultimate Place. Wow! I want to see it.
That&rsquo;s all. I want to see it. I want to experience it. And also, I
am the Christ. I never did become something else that I&rsquo;ve got to
work out of being. I&rsquo;m already the Christ experiencing and
exercising my capacities in a limited fashion.&rdquo; What does this
mean? It means that you are always engaged in Divine Being. You&rsquo;re
always engaged right now, right here, in this quote &ldquo;this
lifetime&rdquo; that you think is separated off from Eternity.
You&rsquo;re already in this lifetime here and now &hellip;

(PAUL: Just a moment.)

&hellip; being the Divine One That You Are, [the] Divine One That God Is
Being right there where you are.

This is why the Course says that the journey Home is a journey without
distance. It&rsquo;s also a journey without improvement. It&rsquo;s a
journey of not bettering yourself. It&rsquo;s just a journey, in so many
words, of being without providing as many constraints upon yourself.

Here is an example. Many of you would love to teleport or levitate. It
would make many things much easier, and certainly would affect your
economy and the world, if oil was not needed. [small laugh] But what if
simply walking around the room was an actually limited form of
teleportation and levitation? Do you see what I&rsquo;m saying? Right
now everything you&rsquo;re doing is an embodiment of Ultimate Things
which you think are human and material and physical and unspiritual and
un-Ultimate. Now, if you were to consider that a simple thing like
walking was something much more than walking, you would immediately find
your movement, your normal everyday movement to be much more
fascinating; something to pay much more attention to. You know, if
you&rsquo;re levitating a millimeter a second, if you&rsquo;re
teleporting a millimeter a second, there&rsquo;s not a great sense of
movement, but you&rsquo;re still engaged in teleporting. Do you see what
I&rsquo;m saying?

You are already living the Life Divine and misinterpreting it&mdash;not
seeing it fully. This is why you can dare to bring so much more
curiosity to what you call your normal daily experience than you usually
do. In fact, the majority of you find your everyday experience to be a
significant distraction to your spiritual path. You cannot have a single
experience in your day that isn&rsquo;t a Manifestation of Divine
Ultimate Activity.

It&rsquo;s like a bunch of kids out in the universe, out in the play
yard, and the majority of them are making sweeping movements from
universe to universe, or galaxy to galaxy, and little Henry is
teleporting a millimeter a second. And the other guys say, &ldquo;Come
on. Come on. Why are you moving so slow? You know, come on! Be more
expansive in teleporting.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Oh,&rdquo; he says. &ldquo;Well, no. You know, if I move too far
too fast, I miss everything in between. And I want to smell the roses. I
want to savor everything.&rdquo; But if he savors everything slowly, he
will get locked into a habit of savoring everything slowly. The other
boys will eventually leave him alone. And he will be able to think,
&ldquo;Well, this is all there is. This is the way it is. I like it this
way. I&rsquo;m going to continue doing it this way. I&rsquo;m not going
to embody my Expansiveness, my All-Inclusiveness, my
Universality.&rdquo; You see?

And perhaps some of the other boys exercising their full capacities come
upon him and he talks so convincingly about the value of not overlooking
things and taking the time to move slowly, that some of the other boys
join him. They want to explore this possibility. Before long
there&rsquo;s a group of boys only moving a millimeter every second, you
see, and thinking this is great. And pretty soon the whole group forgets
about being expansive. And even if those who are expansive drop in from
time to time, they say, &ldquo;No. No. I&rsquo;m not interested.&rdquo;
You see, when the Voice for Truth registers with you, you say,
&ldquo;Why that&rsquo;s too outlandish. No. No.&rdquo;

But my point is, there isn&rsquo;t anything about your daily existence
that isn&rsquo;t absolutely Divine and that in which you are not
utilizing your Ultimate Capacities as the Christ in a limited fashion.
But you&rsquo;re being the Christ right now&mdash;just hesitantly,
[laughing] slowly. But the point is that you aren&rsquo;t moving around
because you are a physical body in a physical universe, that has a
circuitry in it with electrical synapses and communication that cause
muscles to contract, and so on, and that&rsquo;s the reason you&rsquo;re
moving around. You&rsquo;re moving around because the intent to move,
the intent to be in this way or that way is there, and that Intent is
the Law of the Visibility and Tangibility of You. And Ultimate Things
are what are appearing as you moving right now.

&ldquo;Sure wish I could learn how to teleport.&rdquo; Well, damn it,
you are teleporting every day. The moment any of you stands up from your
chair, you are levitating and teleporting simultaneously. You already
know how to do it. You just do it in tiny steps, and slow. And why?
Because you really do believe that you&rsquo;re just a hunk of matter,
that you&rsquo;re caught in this lifetime in a body which you will shed
one day, and then have your freedom to express your Divine Capacities.
Or you will finally learn enough or refine your soul enough to be able
to enjoy your Divine Capacities.

You can&rsquo;t move your little finger without it being the Movement of
Creation. Everything you&rsquo;re doing is being done by Ultimate Means.
And I want you to remember that this week. And I want you not to forget
it.

We&rsquo;re talking about miracles. Miracles are sudden shifts of
perception. We&rsquo;re shifting perceptions right now, whether you
forget about it in a half an hour, or not. We are shifting perceptions.
It hadn&rsquo;t occurred to you before that when you move, here and now,
in this lifetime, in this so-called material world, that the Movement is
a Divine Capacity to be wherever the Intent is to be, and you arrive at
that point by means of Divine Capacities, such as teleportation, such as
levitation.

Think about it. I mean, contemplate it this week. You are already the
Ultimate doing everything by Ultimate Means, but interpreting it
entirely differently. And your interpretation that you are a body in a
material universe, blinds you completely to the impulse to be in
radically new ways, such as teleporting home instead of driving home. Or
getting in your car, and teleporting yourself and your car into your
garage, and then not using your car ever again, and not having to pay
$3.00 a gallon for gas. You see?

Here and now is where to be radical, because here and now is where the
Ultimate is occurring in slow motion. You see? Okay. In other words,
your Grandeur is what is in operation right here and right now.
You&rsquo;re just not letting it show. You&rsquo;re just reluctant to
let it be embodied. Your reluctance is based upon false premises.

But you know what? It&rsquo;s not an ego choosing to do less. It&rsquo;s
a Christ choosing to teleport in slow motion, and then doing it for so
long that It temporarily forgets what Its Full Capacity is. But it
doesn&rsquo;t change the fact that you are the Full Expression of God
here and now, with nothing of your Capacity To Be withheld from you by
the Father in His Expression of You, His Presencing of Himself right
where you are.

So when we&rsquo;re talking about Grandeur, we&rsquo;re talking about
your Divine Capacities that you are utilizing to do anything that
happens, but which you don&rsquo;t recognize as Grandeur because you
think that every single thing you do is a body using energy that can
deplete the body and cause you to lose the capacity to continue
indefinitely in that activity, requiring you to have rest, and to eat
and get more nourishment because you get your nourishment from something
out there that you put in here, and blah, blah, blah. You&rsquo;ve got
it all figured out wrong.

Okay. Let&rsquo;s go to the book.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Can your grandeur be arrogant when God Himself witnesses to it?
</div>

It would only be arrogant if you were claiming something that God
wasn&rsquo;t claiming for you.

The Father says, &ldquo;I withhold nothing of WHAT I AM from you. ALL
THAT I AM, You Are.&rdquo; So it&rsquo;s not arrogant for you to dare to
go through your day teleporting or levitating a little bit more than a
millimeter every half a minute.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Can your grandeur be arrogant when God Himself witnesses to it? And what
can be real that HAS no witnesses? What good can come of it? And if no
good can come of it, the Holy Spirit &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that which is nothing more than your right Mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; cannot use it. What He cannot transform to the Will of God does
not exist at all.
</div>

Now the only thing that the Holy Spirit can transform to the Will of God
is your Christhood that you are only being willing to be conscious of in
a very limited fashion. And so the Holy Spirit can take your sluggish
teleportation and transform it into speedy Universal Movement, because
it&rsquo;s something that&rsquo;s already the Truth About You.

And you could say, &ldquo;Wow! The Holy Spirit has given me a capacity
that I didn&rsquo;t have before. Wow! I must have been doing something
right. I can&rsquo;t think of what it was in my spiritual path that
triggered this sudden shift, but, Wow! I&rsquo;ve been given something I
didn&rsquo;t have before.&rdquo; No. Your Divine Capacity that you had
been using in a limited fashion was uncovered in more of its Fullness to
you by the Holy Spirit. And so the Holy Spirit turned your so-called
limitation to your advantage.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What He cannot transform to the Will of God does not exist at all.
</div>

What He can transform to the Will of God is something that is already
True About You that you&rsquo;re already utilizing, even though
it&rsquo;s in a very limited fashion.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Grandiosity is delusional because it is used to REPLACE your grandeur.
</div>

So, what would grandiosity be? Well, grandiosity would be you not
wanting to move so slowly, wanting to move faster, recognizing that the
limitation was not legitimate, and so, you as a puny body that you think
you are, begin to exercise and start going to track meets, and you get a
trainer, and you work to break the 3-minute mile or the 4-minute mile.

Grandiosity is you, as what you think you are, working from within the
box, working within your current definition of yourself, and exceeding
the physical limits that you seemed to be bound by. And yet, all
you&rsquo;ve done is rearrange something inside the box without stepping
out of the box.

You know, you might start opening yourself up to the fact that you are
already levitating and teleporting, by not trying to go from here to
Paris, or even here to the next room, but by going up a flight of stairs
expending less energy because you&rsquo;re willing to go up the stairs
without thinking that your body is carrying you up the stairs by virtue
of physical energy. Just go up and down stairs, or engage in a physical
activity that you engage in every day, like vacuuming or mowing the
lawn, and have the inquisitiveness to see it happen with less physical
effort, and therefore, less depletion. There are many creative ways to
approach this, but you won&rsquo;t even do it if you think you&rsquo;re
just a body, and Divine Capacities are for somewhere in the afterlife.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Grandiosity is delusional because it is used to REPLACE your grandeur.
</div>

In other words, the attempt to break the 4-minute mile, the attempt to
come up with faster and faster jets, the ability through technology to
develop a quote &ldquo;transporter&rdquo; unquote, as in Star Trek, that
will get you from one place to another instantaneously, is a form of
grandiosity, because it&rsquo;s an attempt to do something that&rsquo;s
actually Divine without engaging Divinity in any way; managing to
accomplish something Divine as a body that has nothing to do with God,
and which someday, as they so sweetly say, when someday you lay it
aside. Isn&rsquo;t that repulsive? [some audience amusement]
&ldquo;Someday when you lay it aside.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Grandiosity is delusional because it is used to REPLACE your grandeur.
Yet what God has created cannot BE replaced. God is incomplete without
you because His grandeur is total, and you cannot BE missing from it.
</div>

Now this isn&rsquo;t some nice, theoretical idea&mdash;that:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; His grandeur is total, and you cannot BE missing from it.
</div>

You see, for it to be theoretical, it would be like, &ldquo;Well, yeah,
but I know I&rsquo;m in the mortal condition right now. But I also know
that I&rsquo;m held in the Mind of God as What I Truly Am.&rdquo; You
know, the Mind of God &ldquo;somewhere else,&rdquo; unrelated to this
human condition that you&rsquo;re experiencing for the time being until
&ldquo;you gently lay your body aside.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; His grandeur is total, and you cannot BE missing from it.
</div>

That means you&rsquo;re not missing from it. Right now you&rsquo;re not
missing from it. You, right here, right now, are not missing from it.
You are the Presence of God experiencing Life by means of Divine
Capacities, but giving it definitions that exclude their Divinity, and
thus rendering yourself unconscious of the full scope of your
Capacities.

&ldquo;Well, I&rsquo;m just an ego, you know.&rdquo; No, you&rsquo;re
not. &ldquo;Well, I&rsquo;ve got a lot to learn.&rdquo; No, you
don&rsquo;t.

The simplest &hellip; remember this, the simplest acts that you engage
in employ Divine Capacities and nothing else.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; His grandeur is total, and you cannot BE missing from it.

You are altogether irreplaceable in the Mind of God. No-one else can
fill your part of It, and while you leave your part of It empty&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; by dallying with the ego. By playing with this fantastic idea
that you exist independent of God &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; while you leave your part of It empty, your eternal place
merely waits for your return.
</div>

Which is another way of saying, it awaits your recognition of
It&mdash;not that you&rsquo;re going to journey back to It.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God, through His Voice&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Voice for Truth. The Holy Spirit&mdash;that which is
nothing more than your right Mind &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; reminds you of It, and God Himself keeps your extensions safe
within It.
</div>

You know what? If you&rsquo;re going through every aspect of your day
employing Divine Capacities, then you are succeeding, even if it&rsquo;s
in limited fashion, to be the Movement that expresses the Christ That
You Are that constitutes Creation. And even though this happens unknown
to you, all that you are expressing is held in trust for you to
experience, once you decide to open up your eyes and get a little bit
bigger view.

If you walk up the stairs as a body, getting tired because you&rsquo;re
walking up the stairs, you are at the same time the Ultimate, the
Christ. The movement is levitation/teleportation combined. And those
Divine Capacities being used, if I may put it that way, constitute an
affirmation or confirmation of God&mdash;an embodiment by virtue of it
being an Act of Divine Life. And that affirmation or confirmation never
fades. It is an eternal confirmation.

And the awareness of it will become yours when you stop this silly habit
of thinking that right now you&rsquo;re not the Ultimate; you really are
just a body trudging up the stairs every day, and down the stairs, and
up the stairs, and down the stairs, and stressing your heart and moving
yourself closer to the grave, because your body is physical and
doesn&rsquo;t have Divine Capacities of regeneration. And therefore, you
know, your daily activities are part of what they jokingly call
&ldquo;the terminal disease called &lsquo;life.&rsquo;&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God, through His Voice, reminds you of It&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your Eternal Place in Him &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and God Himself keeps your extensions safe within It. Yet You
do not know them until you return to them. You CANNOT replace the
Kingdom, &hellip;
</div>

Well, why would it say that? Since when did [laughing] &hellip; since
when did any of you think you were engaged in &ldquo;replacing the
Kingdom&rdquo;? &ldquo;Well,&rdquo; you say, &ldquo;That would be a very
arrogant idea.&rdquo; [small laugh] But when you&rsquo;re insisting on
calling the Kingdom something else called a physical universe that
started from a big bang, that will slowly reach a point of ultimate
expansion and then fall back in on itself and everything will cease to
exist, and start all over again&mdash;when you do that, you&rsquo;ve
replaced the Kingdom with a different definition of It. And then
you&rsquo;ve replaced It further by believing your definition and making
commitment to your definition. And in the process of all of this, you
confirm further your ignorance of What It Is and What You Are.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You CANNOT replace the Kingdom&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and I&rsquo;m going to add: Even though the human condition is
evidence of the fact that you try &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and &hellip;
</div>

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you cannot replace YOURSELF.
</div>

But you&rsquo;ve tried. You didn&rsquo;t know you were trying, because,
you know, your parents taught you, your physicists, your scientists
teach you, your doctors teach you that you are a body. And here&rsquo;s
how the body works, and here&rsquo;s what physics says about it. And for
every expenditure of energy, there&rsquo;s a cost, and that cost must be
replaced by food, or medicine, or oxygen, or rest. You see? So you have
been replacing yourself.

But it says:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You CANNOT replace the Kingdom, and you cannot replace YOURSELF. God,
Who KNOWS your value, would not have it so, and so it is NOT so. Your
value &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in other words, the Meaningfulness of your Presence &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is in GOD&rsquo;S Mind, and therefore not in yours alone.
</div>

You all do go around with a picture of your value. And you try to live
your life so as to demonstrate more and more value&mdash;more and more
of your value. You see? But once again that&rsquo;s a value created
inside the box that doesn&rsquo;t exist. And it requires the mutual
agreement of others to confirm, in order for you to be able to believe
it. Because, after all, if they don&rsquo;t recognize your worth, you
haven&rsquo;t demonstrated it yet. And therefore, because you
haven&rsquo;t demonstrated it, it isn&rsquo;t valid. It isn&rsquo;t
there yet.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your value &hellip;
</div>

Though, that&rsquo;s outside the box, that has nothing to do with the
box.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is in GOD&rsquo;S Mind, and therefore not in yours alone.
</div>

The value of you that&rsquo;s in your mind is a mind you have
fantasized, is a value you have fantasized. And so, yes, you have to
arrive at a point where you abandon your personal evaluation of
yourself. Some of you suffer from a valuation of yourself that is too
great, because it&rsquo;s not Real. And others of you suffer from a
valuation of yourself that is too little. And either valuation&mdash;one
that&rsquo;s inflated but not Real, and one that is deflated that is not
Real&mdash;is nonsense, is meaningless, is a big fat zero. So either
evaluation that you apply to your[self], any evaluation you apply to
yourself must be let go of.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your value is in GOD&rsquo;S Mind, and therefore not in yours alone.
</div>

You abandon the one that is in yours alone, and you just accept the fact
that your Value, your Meaningfulness, is Infinitely Divine and Divinely
Infinite, and it&rsquo;s held in place by God&rsquo;s Determination of
What You Are. And the measurement He uses for His Determination of you
is What He Is. And He knows that you are nothing less than What He Is,
because He is the One expressing You, being You.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To accept yourself as God created you &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and I&rsquo;m going to add: As God sees you and determines you
to be &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; cannot be arrogance because it is the DENIAL of arrogance.
</div>

You see that? Arrogance is you inside a little box trying to be more of
what you think you are, but aren&rsquo;t. That&rsquo;s
arrogance&mdash;plain, pure and simple&mdash;not complicated, not
otherworldly.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To accept your littleness IS arrogant because it means that you believe
YOUR evaluation of yourself is TRUER than God&rsquo;s.
</div>

And you say, &ldquo;Well, but I didn&rsquo;t know that my evaluation
&hellip; that I thought my evaluation of myself was truer than
God&rsquo;s, because my parents told me what I was. And everyone else
tells me what I am. And, indeed, to me it looks like that&rsquo;s what I
am. And I don&rsquo;t remember ever in this lifetime determining to see
myself in a different way from the way God was seeing me.&rdquo; Well,
I&rsquo;m sorry. You may not remember when you did it, but you did it.
There was a point at which you said, &ldquo;But, Father, I&rsquo;d
rather see it my way. I would like to explore the interesting experience
of determining what things are and what I am.&rdquo; And so now
you&rsquo;re undoing it. Now you&rsquo;re undoing it because you are
tired of the experience, and you are inviting in the Voice for Truth.
You are inviting in my Voice to tell it to you the Way It Is, so that
you can stop dallying with the ego.

Now, continuing, it says:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet if truth is indivisible your evaluation of yourself must BE
God&rsquo;s.
</div>

What that means is that the little you that doesn&rsquo;t really exist,
in the little box that doesn&rsquo;t really exist, can&rsquo;t actually
make an evaluation of anything, much less evaluate something that
doesn&rsquo;t exist. So what you call your evaluation of yourself is
tinkling brass. It&rsquo;s nonsense. It, therefore, is nothing in
actuality. And that&rsquo;s why you&rsquo;ve got to not continue to
value the definition you&rsquo;ve made-up.

And because it&rsquo;s nothing, it means that God&rsquo;s Will is still
in place, as a Singularity, as the only thing going on. And you still
are right at this moment the Christ engaging in Life by means of Divine
Capacities and simply misinterpreting them. So if Truth is indivisible,
a Singularity, your evaluation of yourself, the only evaluation that
could constitute an actual evaluation, must be God&rsquo;s. There
isn&rsquo;t any other evaluation that could be True.

You&rsquo;re neither behind the Point of Perfection, nor advancing
toward it; you&rsquo;re at that Point and must evaluate yourself
therefrom, must understand yourself therefrom. And that&rsquo;s what
we&rsquo;re talking about today. We&rsquo;re talking about the fact that
right now you are the Christ. This is the evaluation. And every act you
engage in is an act employing Divine Capacities. You&rsquo;ve just been
interpreting them in an extremely limited way.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You did not establish your value, and it NEEDS no defense. Nothing can
attack it or prevail over it. It does not vary. It merely IS. Ask the
Holy Spirit WHAT it is and He will tell you&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; oh, you get that? You go where the answer is. Where do you go?
To that which is nothing more than your right Mind&mdash;the Holy
Spirit. Isn&rsquo;t that utterly intelligent?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Ask the Holy Spirit WHAT it is and He will tell you, but do not be
afraid of His answer, for it comes from God. It IS an exalted answer
because of its Source, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning that its Source is not an imagined you inside an
imaginary box that doesn&rsquo;t exist.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It IS an exalted answer because of its Source, but the Source is true
and so is Its answer. Listen and do not question what you hear, for God
does not deceive.
</div>

The Voice for Truth is the Voice for God. The Voice for Truth does not
lie because it is the Voice for God, and God tells the Truth. God tells
it As It Is. That&rsquo;s what that means. Not the Truth [sung in a
loud, ascending, musical, trumpet-like voice, as though Truth&rsquo;s
arrival is being announced by the sounding of trumpets] da ta da ta da
dum. But He tells it As It Is&mdash;simple as apple pie, normal as apple
pie&mdash;but radically different from the way you&rsquo;ve been
thinking about it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He would have you replace the ego&rsquo;s belief in littleness with His
own exalted answer to the question of your being, so that you can cease
to question it and KNOW it for what it IS.
</div>

You don&rsquo;t have to go far to find something as interesting as good
science fiction. You don&rsquo;t have to go very far for experiences
that are radically new and transformational. Everything you&rsquo;re
experiencing is an experience in your Mind. I&rsquo;m not going to say,
&ldquo;a Mind,&rdquo; because &ldquo;Mind&rdquo; is not a noun;
it&rsquo;s a verb. It&rsquo;s a Movement of Consciousness. Everything is
in your Mind. Everything is your Mind in Movement. And your Mind in
Movement is the only Mind there is, in Movement, which is God.

So you don&rsquo;t have to go any further than your own Mind to find God
or yourself. And you don&rsquo;t have to go any further than your own
Mind, which means turning toward the Altar, going to the Place of
Excellence in you, and inquiring of the Holy Spirit, which is nothing
more than your right Mind, as to what the Truth is. Understanding that
the Truth you&rsquo;re going to be told, will have everything to do with
everything you&rsquo;re already experiencing&mdash;like walking up
stairs, like standing up out of your chair&mdash;telling you What It Is
Truly, and, as I&rsquo;m telling you today, conveying to you that that
which is aware of it and that which is engaged in it, is and always has
been the full-fledged Christ, the Sons and Daughters of God, if you
will, being What They Divinely Are, using Divine Capacities that are
what constitute them fully, or in very hesitant ways. But you&rsquo;ve
been the Christ being the Christ, utilizing Christly Capacities to do
everything that you thought was un-Christlike and sinful and never
hitting the mark. Even when you have not hit the mark, you&rsquo;ve done
it with your Divine Capacities.

Sure, you can toss a tin can into the trashcan and miss the trashcan, or
you can toss it in the trashcan and get it into the trashcan. Either
way, it doesn&rsquo;t mean that two different characters did
it&mdash;that when it missed the trashcan, it was an ego&mdash;and that
when it went in the trashcan, it was the Christ. And it didn&rsquo;t go
into the trashcan because you have no meaning and you are lost
temporarily&mdash;you have strayed from God and you&rsquo;re
experiencing the penalties from having strayed from God. No. It just
means that the Christ has thrown the can, it missed the trashcan, and
the Christ says, with all the Christ&rsquo;s Divine Capacities,
&ldquo;Well, you missed the trashcan because you&rsquo;re an ego.&rdquo;
You see? [small laugh]

The Christ has the capacity to say anything the Christ wants, and
believe what is said. Do you see what I am saying so clearly to you?
That whether you are living What You Are clearly, or through a glass
darkly, you are the Christ doing it all.

So you have already arrived. And all that&rsquo;s left is for you to be
more curious about what these Divine Capacities are that you&rsquo;re
employing every day, thinking that they&rsquo;re just physical
capacities, which will ultimately create physical incapacities for you,
because you aren&rsquo;t Divine. You see?

Oh, I see over here on the next page, the word &ldquo;ephemeral.&rdquo;
Well, that&rsquo;s a really neat spiritual word, isn&rsquo;t it?
Ephemeral is so nonmaterial, so unrelated to, you know, carrying out the
trash, or walking up and down the stairs. And we&rsquo;ve been reading
here about Grandeur. We&rsquo;ve been talking about that God is
incomplete without you, and you cannot be missing from His Grandeur.
Could have gone way off on a big head trip about all of this grandiose,
spiritual subject matter. But it&rsquo;s all about you. And it&rsquo;s
all about you right here, right now, needing to dare to look at
everything you&rsquo;re experiencing with eyes that are different from
your conditioned expectations, with a curiosity.

And I&rsquo;ve told you today why you can expect that curiosity to be
responded to in ways that allow you to see yourself and be yourself in
new ways, which doesn&rsquo;t mean be yourself by ascending into Heaven,
but you ascending up the stairs as you carry the groceries in with no
effort. You don&rsquo;t have to do it as a body anymore. You never did.
And you never have. You never have. You get it? You&rsquo;ve always
levitated and teleported everywhere you&rsquo;ve moved. You didn&rsquo;t
teleport a body. Form identified the Movement of Mind.

Waking up is really interesting, isn&rsquo;t it?

Okay.

I look forward to being with you all next week. And I love you.

Okay.

[^1]: T9.6 Grandeur versus Grandiosity

