---
title: May 1, 2005
ref: "T9.8 The Decision to Forget"
alink: "/acim/text/09/chap0908/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who is joining us on the Internet.

How many of you are, this evening, experiencing some distress because
you&rsquo;re not pleased with yourself? And how many of you are
experiencing some distress because other people are not pleased with
you? Or to be more focused, how many of you are feeling some distress
because you are displeased with yourself or other people are displeased
with you?

The really simple answer and resolution to the displeasure is, lies in
the words, &ldquo;It&rsquo;s because you don&rsquo;t know Who You
Are.&rdquo; If you knew Who You Were, you wouldn&rsquo;t indulge the
feeling of not being pleased with yourself, because Who You Are is too
wonderful to be displeased with.

I&rsquo;ve said before that in the whole time I was growing up, my
mother never let me forget Who I Was. Unfortunately, you did not have
mothers or fathers who could constantly remind you of Who You Are. My
mother constantly reminded me of the Ultimacy of my Being, that God was
my Father and I was Divine, that I had a Heritage that was Immaculate.
Yes, I sometimes heard that as a level of responsibility that I
therefore had, that no one else had. And sometimes I didn&rsquo;t want
to have anything to do with it. But the fact is that because I was never
allowed to forget Who I Was and that my Source was Divine, not human, I
never was able to fully succumb to the mutually-agreed-upon definitions
that all my buddies wanted me to join in, or even any of the adults
around me.

I am, every time we get together, reminding you of Who You Really Are.
You experience distress with yourself because you believe you are who
you think you are, who you have been educated to think you are. You are
like a child of royalty who was stolen away from his royal parents, you
might say, and were brought up with common man and had no sense of your
birthright or your heritage. And then one day you&rsquo;re found by the
royal family, and you&rsquo;re brought back home, and you&rsquo;re told
that you&rsquo;re not the common one, that you are royalty. But you have
grown up and acquired all of your concepts about yourself from those
with whom you were living. And it&rsquo;s not possible for you to just
suddenly feel royal. But if you&rsquo;re constantly reminded of it, if
you&rsquo;re constantly reminded of your Real Heritage, it becomes
easier and easier for you to abandon, or invalidate and abandon, the
definitions you&rsquo;ve made-up and made commitment to.

I know that I&rsquo;m being very repetitious, but the repetition needs
to be made. The sentence is so simple and it needs to be remembered. You
are neither behind the Point of Perfection, nor advancing toward it; you
are at that Point and must understand yourself therefrom.

You are Divine. You are the Son, the Daughter, the Offspring, the Child
of God&mdash;God&rsquo;s Self-Expression. And you are employing Ultimate
Capacities all the time because they&rsquo;re the only Capacities you
have available to you. You are using Ultimate Capacities every day,
every moment, even though you&rsquo;re using them to create a sense of
limitation, activities of limitation, activities of overcoming
limitation. But the Ultimate One That You Are, the Ultimate One that you
are attempting to access, to become like, You Are right now.

Please, as you go through the next week, bring this thought to the
foreground of your mind frequently. Even if everything that&rsquo;s
going on seems to argue against it and prove to you that it can&rsquo;t
be true, be &ldquo;the mother you don&rsquo;t have&rdquo; reminding
yourself of Who You Are, or &ldquo;the father you don&rsquo;t
have&rdquo; to remind you Who You Are. You be it. Remind yourself of it.

The more you remind yourself of it, the more curiosity you are going to
have to explore and employ these Ultimate Capacities more fully.
You&rsquo;ve got to remind yourself that you have Capacities that
you&rsquo;re not using fully so that you might dare to experiment, for
lack of better words, play with looking at everything with a willingness
to see the more that&rsquo;s there, the more that I&rsquo;m telling you
is there, than what you&rsquo;re seeing. Let there be moments of
willingness to be more intimate with a salt shaker that&rsquo;s on the
table in the restaurant you&rsquo;re having lunch in, or the chair
you&rsquo;re sitting in&mdash;anything. Let there be moments where you
abandon your routine to just be present with something with an openness
and a curiosity to see what you may never have seen before. And then go
on about your business, but get into the habit of, even momentarily,
having the curiosity and the willingness to be present with something,
to experience the more that&rsquo;s there. This is the way you will
break the habit, the persistence of misperception rather than the
persistence of Vision, the persistence of the misperception of Who and
What You Are that you&rsquo;re so willing to believe and then berate
yourself for.

If you knew you were royalty, you would say, &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t have
to put up with this shit!&rdquo; You see? But you just think
you&rsquo;re the common man. You just think you&rsquo;re a mortal
working his way through this lifetime. Well, you&rsquo;re not. And you
need to be a little bit more active and vehement in your denial of the
idea that that is all you are. Be a little bit more aggressive. Be a
little bit more self-disciplined to the point where you at least remind
yourself frequently during the day. &ldquo;Well, they think I&rsquo;m
awful, but &hellip; and they&rsquo;re distressed with me, but &hellip;
my Father is God, and my Inheritance is the Fullness of His Being. And
my Capacities are what He has laid down in me. I am more than they think
I am. And I don&rsquo;t have to respond like some inconsequential
turd.&rdquo; You see? &ldquo;I may be unhappy with myself, but I
don&rsquo;t have to be.&rdquo; If you have to pawn it off on me, fine.
Say, &ldquo;Raj says I don&rsquo;t have to be.&rdquo; But at least
remind yourself that you have an option. There is another way to look at
this.

If you remind yourself of it, you will remember to try. And trying to be
in a new way, bringing the curiosity necessary to having a new
experience, is what lays the groundwork for what? A sudden shift of
perception. But it&rsquo;s going to take practice. And let the practice
be fun. Let it be lighthearted.

Paul said&mdash;not Paul Tuttle&mdash;&ldquo;Paul the disciple&rdquo;
said, &ldquo;Now are we the Sons of God. And it doth not yet appear what
we shall be, but we know that when he,&rdquo; meaning Jesus, &ldquo;when
he shall appear, we shall be like him.&rdquo; Why? &ldquo;Because we
shall see him as he is.&rdquo; Interesting, isn&rsquo;t it? It
doesn&rsquo;t say, &ldquo;We will recognize him because of who he is,
and he will impress us with who he is, and thereby we will know who he
is.&rdquo; It says, &ldquo;And we will then find ourselves to be like
him.&rdquo; It says, &ldquo;We will be like him because we will see him
as he is.&rdquo; We will see him As He Is in Reality.

Well, in a way, it&rsquo;s sort of like which came first, the chicken or
the egg? Are you going to be like me because you see me? Or are you
going to see me as like you because you see yourself correctly?
It&rsquo;s a moot point. But the key is that now are you my Brothers.
Now are you the Sons and Daughters of God, the Offspring, the Expression
of God. And it&rsquo;s time for you to recognize yourself.

And in order to recognize yourself, you&rsquo;re going to have to
abandon your confidence that you know that you are simply a mortal, a
flesh-and-blood body that has a temporary lifespan, and afterwards, the
Ultimate may be your experience. No. Now the Ultimate is going on. So
you&rsquo;ve got to start today letting that fact abide in you like a
glowing Light that gets your attention. And now is the world the Kingdom
of Heaven. And you&rsquo;ve got to let that idea pulsate and glow in
your mind, and get your attention so that you will dare to look at it
all with innocent eyes, fresh eyes, not preoccupied with past
definitions.

Let&rsquo;s go to the book. The section is entitled:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*The Decision to Forget* [^1]

Unless you KNOW something you CANNOT dissociate it.
</div>

Dissociate. Separate from yourself, or separate from its source.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Unless you KNOW something you CANNOT dissociate it.
</div>

Okay, let&rsquo;s render this more understandable. When you said,
&ldquo;But, Father, I&rsquo;d rather see it my way,&rdquo; and got your
bill of divorcement, you were dissociating yourself from the Father.
That&rsquo;s all. You got a divorce. A separation occurred. That&rsquo;s
dissociation. That was the dissociation.

Now mind you, it&rsquo;s well to remember that just saying,
&ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;d rather see it my way,&rdquo; does not
constitute a dissociation. To have the thought doesn&rsquo;t mean
anything. But to actually say, &ldquo;My definition of this is
such-and-such,&rdquo; at that point dissociation occurred because you
were saying, &ldquo;This thing is not What The Father Is Being right
there. It is what I say it is.&rdquo; And at that point you established
a sense of independence. And that&rsquo;s when the dissociation
occurred&mdash;when you actually made a decision that a thing was what
you said it was, rather than What The Father Was Being right there.

Now:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Unless you KNOW something you CANNOT dissociate it. Knowledge therefore
PRECEDES dissociation, and dissociation is nothing more than a DECISION
TO FORGET.
</div>

Now, here&rsquo;s another practical aspect of this statement. We were
talking last week about the fact that What The Father Knows is your True
Knowing, is your Capacity To Know What A Thing Is Truly. And the Father
does not Know something for Himself alone. His Knowing constitutes your
True Knowing because it was placed in you by virtue of God extending
Himself right where you are.

Now, if dissociation has occurred, in other words, if you are
experiencing everything with the meanings you&rsquo;re giving it rather
than What It Truly Is, it means that you did know originally What It
Was&mdash;which means that right now you really do know What Everything
Is. In other words, if you are experiencing dissociation, it means that
you did know. And if you did know, you do know. Nothing has been lost.
Nothing has to be regained through mental gymnastics or hard work.
You&rsquo;re at the Point of Perfection and must understand yourself
therefrom. If Knowledge precedes dissociation, then if you&rsquo;re
experiencing dissociation, by reversal, you know that You Are The
Ultimate right now.

Do you see what I&rsquo;m trying to say? It&rsquo;s another way of
saying if you are experiencing a misperception of something,
there&rsquo;s something Real there to be misperceived. The Ultimate is
going on. It&rsquo;s the only thing confronting you. If you&rsquo;re
having a misperception of it, What It Really Is, is right there. And so
you can say, by reversal, &ldquo;If I am misperceiving this orchid, it
means the Real Orchid is there.&rdquo; Not off in the bye-and-bye after
you die, but right here, right now. If you&rsquo;re experiencing a
misperception, the thing that you&rsquo;re misperceiving is fully and
actively present. The Ultimate is here.

If you are experiencing life through dissociation, then it means you do
know What It Really Is, and you are just in a momentary state of denial
of What It Is. So, the Kingdom of Heaven isn&rsquo;t off in the future,
and your Capacity to recognize it, isn&rsquo;t off in the future. If
you&rsquo;re experiencing dissociation and misperception, it is the
proof you need that the Real Thing is present, and you know What It Is
right now. You do know What It Is.

I must point this out to you so that you don&rsquo;t indulge in the idea
that seeing everything for What It Is, and recognizing and experiencing
Who You Really Are, is not something that will arrive as a result of
great struggle on your part, of standing tall and trying to be more than
you are, of being a caterpillar that has to go through a process of
metamorphosis in order to become a butterfly&mdash;something that the
caterpillar wasn&rsquo;t yet. You see what I&rsquo;m saying? You are the
Ultimate right now.

Again.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Unless you KNOW something you CANNOT dissociate it. Knowledge therefore
PRECEDES dissociation&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; Knowing precedes the experience of a belief &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and dissociation is nothing more than a DECISION TO FORGET.
</div>

&ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;d rather see it my way. I choose to forget What A
Thing Really Is. I choose to forget my Source. I choose to define myself
and to define everything else. I choose to forget Who I Am, because if I
don&rsquo;t forget Who I Am, I won&rsquo;t be able to successfully
convince myself that my definitions are true and real.&rdquo;

So it&rsquo;s the decision to forget.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What has been forgotten then appears to be fearful, but ONLY because the
dissociation was an ATTACK on truth.
</div>

You see? &ldquo;I disagree with You, God. This is an orchid and it grows
from a seed, not from the Impulse of Creation That You Are. It grows
from a seed. And you know what? I&rsquo;m going to determine that if it
doesn&rsquo;t get watered, it will wither and die and be no more.&rdquo;
You see? &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t care if you say it&rsquo;s Eternal, God; I
say that it&rsquo;s mortal. I say that without proper treatment, it will
die, and that plant will forever more not be.&rdquo;

You see? It&rsquo;s a disagreement with God. It&rsquo;s a standing at
odds with God. It&rsquo;s an attack on God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You are fearful BECAUSE you have forgotten. And you have REPLACED your
knowledge &hellip;
</div>

Your Knowing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; by an awareness of dreams &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; fantasies. Imaginations &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; because you are AFRAID of your dissociation, NOT of what you
have dissociated.
</div>

Let&rsquo;s be clear on this.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you have REPLACED your knowledge &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; true Knowing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; by an awareness of dreams &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; things you made-up &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; because you are AFRAID of your dissociation, NOT of what you
have dissociated.
</div>

You are afraid of your act of divorcement and what it says about you.
You are afraid of your act, your misbehavior, your disobedience.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you are AFRAID of your dissociation, NOT of what you have
dissociated. Even in this world&rsquo;s therapy, when dissociated
material is ACCEPTED it ceases to be fearful, for the laws of mind
always hold.
</div>

Even in the dream, the Laws of Mind hold.

The question has been asked at times, &ldquo;Why are we afraid to wake
up?&rdquo; You are afraid to wake up because in your imagined
independent state, you&rsquo;ve lost your sense of balance, you&rsquo;ve
lost your perspective, you&rsquo;ve lost the sense of your Source. You
no longer recognize your royalty. And at the bottom line, you know that
this lack of remembering of What You Are was an attempt to be at odds
with your Father, your Source, and therefore, was a denial of your
Reality and the Truth Of What You Are. And you feel vulnerable. And the
assumption is that you are guilty, and that once you dare to say,
&ldquo;God, help. God, I want to let You back into my life,&rdquo; you
will be punished.

But the fact is that when you let God back in, you let in the Truth Of
You. You let in the Stability of your Being. You let in the Experience
of the Eternality of your Being. And you let in the recognition that
your imaginations accomplished nothing, and therefore, nothing
disobedient was accomplished. And your Eternal Invulnerability is
experienced. You find your safety, rather than judgment and punishment.
When you let back in what you&rsquo;ve dissociated, the experience is
Wholeness. And Wholeness is unconflicted. And the concept of punishment
is meaningless.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet to give up the dissociation of REALITY&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in other words, truly with a capital &ldquo;R&rdquo;.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet to give up the dissociation of REALITY brings more than merely lack
of fear.
</div>

It brings more than just peace. It brings more than just relief. It
brings more than just the absence of anxiety and fear.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In THIS decision lie joy and peace and the glory of creation.
</div>

I tell you, as I&rsquo;ve told you before, that absolutely everything
you&rsquo;re experiencing&mdash;the flower, the stem, the leaves, the
roots, the bowl that the plant is in&mdash;every aspect is awesome. It
pulses with and generates Love, on, and on, and on. It is utterly Divine
and Awesome. Right now, right here, this plant and each one of you as
you sit there, are awesome. You pulse with Love. You pulse with Divine
Illumination. The experience of you, and I would say, the experience of
each other from each of your points of view, are awesome, overwhelmingly
glorious. I say &ldquo;overwhelmingly&rdquo; because it far exceeds what
you might imagine, right here, right now.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; to give up the dissociation of REALITY brings more than merely
lack of fear. In THIS decision lie joy and peace and the glory of
creation. Offer the Holy Spirit only your will to remember&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; well, let me tell you this. The moment you begin to express
genuine curiosity, you are offering the Holy Spirit only your will to
remember.

So:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Offer the Holy Spirit only your will to remember, for He retains the
knowledge of God and of yourself FOR you&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and I keep reminding you, as it said earlier in the Course, the
Holy Spirit is nothing more than your right Mind. So offer the Holy
Spirit only your will to remember, for your right Mind retains the
knowledge of God and of yourself for you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; waiting for your acceptance.
</div>

Waiting for your curiosity. Waiting for your desire to see outside the
box.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Give up gladly EVERYTHING &hellip;
</div>

All of your definitions, all of your preconceptions, all of your
confidences, that didn&rsquo;t arise out of a Connectedness with the
Father.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Give up gladly EVERYTHING that would stand in the way of your
remembering, for God is in your memory, and His Voice will tell you that
you are part of Him when you are willing to remember Him and know your
own reality again.
</div>

Well, like I said, you didn&rsquo;t have a mother to remind you of your
Reality, but I&rsquo;m reminding you of it. And you start reminding
yourself of it, whether it seems true or not.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Let nothing in this world delay your remembering of Him, for in this
remembering is the knowledge of YOURSELF.
</div>

Practical translation: When you let God in, you&rsquo;re letting in your
Source. When you let in your Source, you remember Who You Are. You come
&hellip; you snap back into your right Mind.

And so:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Let nothing in this world &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; which means, let nothing in all of your current definitions
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; delay your remembering of Him, for in this remembering is the
knowledge of YOURSELF.
</div>

That&rsquo;s how you remember Who You Are, by no longer denying your
Source. That&rsquo;s the only way you can remember Who You Are.

Now, listen to this.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To remember is merely to restore to your mind WHAT IS ALREADY THERE.
</div>

Neither behind the Point of Perfection nor advancing toward it.
You&rsquo;re there!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To remember is merely to restore to your mind WHAT IS ALREADY THERE.
</div>

Again, this is not a process of achieving something that you
aren&rsquo;t yet. And it&rsquo;s not a matter of acquiring what you
don&rsquo;t have yet.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To remember is merely to restore to your mind WHAT IS ALREADY THERE. You
do not MAKE what you remember; you merely accept again what has been
made but was rejected.
</div>

Dissociated. Separated from you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ability to accept truth in this world is the perceptual counterpart
of creating in the Kingdom. God will do His part if you will do yours,
and HIS return in exchange for yours is the exchange of knowledge FOR
perception.
</div>

Another way of saying that is you will receive the Experience of Knowing
in place of what you&rsquo;ve made-up, in place of the perceptions
you&rsquo;ve created, the definitions you&rsquo;ve created.

But I&rsquo;ll tell you something, the exchange has to occur. Just as
you, in order to dissociate or get a divorce from the Father, were
required to not just say you wanted to see things your way, you had to
actually give a definition to a thing and then give your preference to
it&mdash;to come back Home, you not only have to be willing to say,
&ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;m willing to exchange my definitions for the Real
Meanings,&rdquo; you actually have to go ahead and do it.

That&rsquo;s why I&rsquo;m encouraging you, at anytime during the day,
with any object in front of you, to let there be an intimate moment
where you&rsquo;re willing to see and desire to see, you&rsquo;re
curious to experience the awesomeness, the gloriousness of that thing,
the Gloriousness of What The Father Is Being right there, which
you&rsquo;re not currently seeing because you do think it&rsquo;s just a
material object. You&rsquo;re actually going to have to be willing to
let the exchange happen, which means you&rsquo;re going to have to be
willing to let the new experience in.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
NOTHING is beyond His Will for you.
</div>

God&rsquo;s Will for you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
But signify your will to remember Him, and behold! He will give you
everything but for the asking.
</div>

Anything complicated here? Difficult process? No. It will be yours for
the asking. &ldquo;Oh, that&rsquo;s too easy.&rdquo; No.

Well, everything we&rsquo;re talking about is ultimately easy. Of
course, the teachers and the developers of curriculums for awakening,
religious systems and so on, will give you complex processes. And
they&rsquo;ll tell you that it will be difficult because you are a
sinner to start with. You&rsquo;re already on lousy ground, with not
much of a basis for deserving to ask for enlightenment and expect to get
it. You see?

Now:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you attack you are denying YOURSELF.
</div>

What does that mean? When you said, &ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;d rather see
it my way,&rdquo; which was an attack on What Really Is because you
wanted to give preference to making your own definitions, you ended up
unexpectedly losing the Experience of Who You Were. You became the
recipient of the result of your decision. And now you think you&rsquo;re
blackballed. &ldquo;God has blackballed you, and it&rsquo;s going to be
difficult to get back into the Kingdom of Heaven. You&rsquo;re going to
have to go through the day of judgment.&rdquo; You see? You&rsquo;ve
been blackballed because of your disobedience.

You were the recipient of your decision to disregard God. God
wasn&rsquo;t the recipient of anything. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you attack you are denying YOURSELF.
</div>

You are denying yourself the remembrance and the Experience of What You
Divinely Are. That&rsquo;s what has happened.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You are specifically teaching yourself that you are NOT what you are.
Your denial of reality precludes the ACCEPTANCE of God&rsquo;s gift
because you have accepted something ELSE in its place.
</div>

An imagination that you are giving preference to.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you understand that the misuse of defenses always constitutes an
attack on truth, and truth is God, you will realize why this is ALWAYS
fearful.
</div>

Well, [laughing] it&rsquo;s always fearful because, ultimately,
you&rsquo;re the recipient of the attack. And you&rsquo;ve already been
the recipient of it, and you&rsquo;re already feeling vulnerable because
of it. You live with an undercurrent of fear and insecurity, and you
think it&rsquo;s just &ldquo;the state of life.&rdquo; It&rsquo;s
&ldquo;the way life is.&rdquo; But it isn&rsquo;t.

It&rsquo;s just that the Kingdom of Heaven looks fearful to you when
you&rsquo;re saying it&rsquo;s something else. Because you are truly
afraid that What It Really Is will manage to register with you and undo
your so-called &ldquo;creations&rdquo;&mdash;all of the definitions
you&rsquo;ve made-up and all of the definitions that you&rsquo;ve agreed
with everyone else about so that numbers give strength to your
misperception. You see? You&rsquo;re afraid that Reality is going to
uncover the invalidity of everything you&rsquo;ve made-up.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you understand that the misuse of defenses always constitutes an
attack on truth, and truth is God, you will realize why this is ALWAYS
fearful. If you further recognize that you are PART of God, you will
understand why it is that you always attack yourself FIRST.
</div>

You see, the ego&rsquo;s thought system is such that it targets you. It
says you are unworthy. It says you are a sinner. It says you were born
in sin. It says you are the underdog, and it will be difficult to get
out from under that status because you deserve it. You see?

Everyone is down on himself first. &ldquo;If you&rsquo;re feeling
uneasy, if you&rsquo;re feeling vulnerable, if you&rsquo;re never at
peace, why there must be something wrong with you.&rdquo; And
that&rsquo;s a little difficult to take, so then you say, &ldquo;Well,
no. It&rsquo;s everybody else.&rdquo; And it&rsquo;s not you and
it&rsquo;s not everybody else. It&rsquo;s just that you&rsquo;ve
forgotten Who You Are.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you realized the complete havoc this makes of your peace of mind, you
could not make such an insane decision. You make it only because you
still believe that it can GET you something you WANT.
</div>

And the only thing you ever wanted was to be able to define everything
yourself, thinking that would be like being God, and that it would give
you a pleasure and a satisfaction of authorizing things. You see?

You make that decision &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; only because you still believe that it can GET you something
you WANT. It follows, then, that you want something OTHER than peace of
mind, but you have not considered what it must be.
</div>

You say, &ldquo;Gee, I didn&rsquo;t expect this just by saying,
&lsquo;But, Father, I&rsquo;d rather see it my way.&rsquo; I
didn&rsquo;t expect that I would forget Who I Was.&rdquo; You see?
&ldquo;I just wanted to be able to authorize a few things.&rdquo; Like
Mickey Mouse in The Sorcerer&rsquo;s Apprentice, he just wanted to be
able to authorize a few things. He didn&rsquo;t know that, [laughing]
you know, that things could go amuck!

You didn&rsquo;t realize that you would forget Who You Were, and you
would lose Conscious Connection with your Source, you would lose the
Experience of the Integrity of your Being. You didn&rsquo;t realize it.
You didn&rsquo;t realize that&rsquo;s what you were asking for, or you
would never have asked for it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you realized the complete havoc this makes of your peace of mind, you
could not make such an insane decision. You make it only because you
still believe that it can GET you something you WANT.
</div>

What did Mickey do? Things started to go awry&mdash;too many buckets of
water, too many brooms bringing them in, filling up the castle. And what
did he do? Did he go to the sorcerer and say &ldquo;Help&rdquo;? No. He
waved the wand some more.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It follows, then, that you want something OTHER than peace of mind, but
you have not considered what it must be. Yet the logical outcome of your
decision is perfectly clear, if you will LOOK at it. By deciding AGAINST
your reality, you have made yourself vigilant AGAINST God and His
Kingdom.
</div>

Why? Because you are afraid that it will undo what you believe you have
authorized. And it will take away any supposed authority you thought you
had gained, and therefore, it will take away what you require to be
there in order to feel a sense of self-respect as long as you
don&rsquo;t remember Who You Are.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And it is THIS vigilance &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; against God and His Kingdom &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; that makes you afraid to remember Him.
</div>

[small laugh] When the sorcerer finally came down the stairs and Mickey
saw him, he cowered. Mickey cowered. He was afraid of what had the
answer. You see?

Now, continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have NOT attacked God and you DO love Him.
</div>

You just thought you attacked God. And you now just think you&rsquo;re
afraid of Him.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have NOT attacked God &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that&rsquo;s the Truth of it &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and you DO love Him.
</div>

And that&rsquo;s the Truth of it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Can you change your reality?
</div>

No. You can imagine that you can and that you have, but you can&rsquo;t.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
No-one can will to destroy himself. When you think you are attacking
your self, it is a sure sign that you hate what you THINK you are. And
this, and ONLY this, can BE attacked by you.
</div>

You see? [laughing ] Poor Mickey. I&rsquo;m sure he got very mad at
himself for all of the ruckus that he was creating, but he was unwilling
to abandon doing what made it worse.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What you THINK you are can be hateful, and what this strange image makes
you do can be very destructive.
</div>

Ha, ha, ha. The joke&rsquo;s on you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet the destruction is no more real than the image&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that&rsquo;s where the joke&rsquo;s on you. None of it is Real.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet the destruction is no more real than the image, although those who
make idols DO worship them. The idols are nothing, &hellip;
</div>

Your imaginations are nothing. Your definitions are nothing. The
conclusions you&rsquo;ve come to about yourself, not only aren&rsquo;t
true, they&rsquo;re nothing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The idols are nothing, but their worshippers are the Sons of God in
sickness.
</div>

You are each the Son or Daughter of God utilizing Ultimate Capacities,
utterly Divine Capacities, well or poorly.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The idols are nothing, but their worshippers are &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; something Ultimate &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the Sons of God &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what? Behaving poorly &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; in sickness.
</div>

You see? You didn&rsquo;t become something else. You didn&rsquo;t become
a mortal. You didn&rsquo;t become an orphan.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The idols are nothing, but their worshippers are the Sons of God in
sickness.

God would have them released &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; would have you released &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; from their sickness and returned to His Mind.
</div>

Well, if you&rsquo;re returned to His Mind, you&rsquo;re returned to
your right Mind. To be returned to His Mind is to be returned to your
right Mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He will not LIMIT your power to help them &hellip;
</div>

Let&rsquo;s back up.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The idols are nothing, but their worshippers are the Sons of God in
sickness.

God would have them released from their sickness and returned to His
Mind. He will not LIMIT your power to help them &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning your Brothers and Sisters.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He will not LIMIT your power to help them because He has GIVEN it to
you. Do not be afraid of it because it is your salvation.
</div>

Oh, but like I said last week, you&rsquo;re like someone who says,
&ldquo;Well, I wouldn&rsquo;t mind being gay if nobody had to know about
it.&rdquo; Well, you&rsquo;ve been given the power to help your Brothers
and Sisters wake up, return their Mind to God, return their Mind to the
Place of Excellence that is within them by reflecting back to them, as
I&rsquo;m doing with you, What Is True About Them, in whatever language
works.

And to help them remember the Truth About Them is your salvation as
well, because what you give away, you get to keep. What you extend
becomes yours. That&rsquo;s the Way It Works.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Do not be afraid of it because it is your salvation. What Comforter can
there be for the &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what? &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; sick Children of God &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the sick ultimate Expressions of God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What Comforter can there be for the sick Children of God except His
power through YOU?
</div>

If you want to remember Who You Are, you&rsquo;ve got to let God back
in. If you want your Brother to remember Who He Is, you&rsquo;ve got to
remember God when you&rsquo;re looking at your Brother.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Remember that it does not matter WHERE in the Sonship He is accepted.
</div>

It can be right in the same room where you are.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He is ALWAYS accepted for all, and when YOUR mind receives Him the
remembrance of &hellip;
</div>

Let&rsquo;s back up. [pause]

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Remember that it does not matter WHERE in the Sonship He &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; God &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is accepted.
</div>

Like I said, it can be right there with you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; God &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is ALWAYS accepted for all&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; just as God does not Know for Himself only, you do not know for
yourself only. I didn&rsquo;t say think. I said Know. When you have the
Experience of Knowing, which is far different from thinking or
imagining, you know it for all. It is accepted for all.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Remember that it does not matter WHERE in the Sonship He &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; God &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is accepted. He is ALWAYS accepted for all, and when YOUR mind
receives Him the remembrance of Him &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; God &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; awakens throughout the Sonship.
</div>

There are no private thoughts. And there&rsquo;s no private Knowing.
When you have the Experience of Knowing the Truth, you know it for the
Whole Sonship. The Whole Sonship is blessed.

Listen to this.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Heal your brothers simply by accepting God FOR them.
</div>

When you care enough about your Brother to remember God right there
where they are, no matter how they&rsquo;re behaving, you provide the
environment in which a miracle can occur for your Brother. And in the
extension of the recognition of What They Divinely Are, you are blessed
by making What You Are clear to yourself. You get to keep what you give.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Heal your brothers simply by accepting God FOR them.

Your minds are not separate, and God has only one channel for healing
because He has but one Son.
</div>

God is a Singularity. What God Knows is Forever, and Infinite, and
Always&mdash;Indivisible, Unchangeable.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your minds are not separate, and God has only one channel for healing
because He has but one Son. His remaining communication link with all
His Children joins them together, and them to Him.
</div>

Well, you know, how is this going to happen if you are what you think
you are and you do not know of your royalty? It can&rsquo;t, and
that&rsquo;s why you&rsquo;ve got to stop working up to becoming
something more than you are. And you&rsquo;ve got to dare to stand right
where you are and understand yourself from an Ultimate Place.

Well, how do you do that? You can&rsquo;t do it by yourself.
You&rsquo;ve got to invite the experience in. You&rsquo;ve got to say,
&ldquo;Help, God. I want to know the Truth right here. I don&rsquo;t
want to know the truth about how bad things are. I&rsquo;ve got all of
that figured out myself. I want to know What The Truth Is here about my
Brother, about my world, about myself. And I understand from Raj that
the only way I will get to know the Truth about my Self is to connect
with You again&mdash;annul my divorce.&rdquo;

Only in this way can you present something new&mdash;something outside
the box, something from outside the box, something from outside all of
the mutually-agreed-upon definitions that everyone has been bound by.
And when you do that, although you have no evidence of it yet, when you
do that, not just the one you&rsquo;ve been willing to bless is blessed,
but the Whole Brotherhood feels the Impulse and Movement of Love that
has motivated an Ultimate Act by you which has claimed your Being from
the standpoint of its Ultimacy, of being at the Point of Perfection. And
your Brother who is in need of healing is blessed, and every Brother who
is already Awake is blessed, because the Pulse of Love is a Universal
Movement that everyone feels.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
His &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; God&rsquo;s &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; remaining communication link with all His Children joins them
together, and them to Him.
</div>

It uncovers the Singularity once again.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To be aware of this is to heal them because it is the awareness that
no-one is separate, and so no-one is sick.
</div>

Remember, back above:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The idols are nothing, but their worshippers are the Sons of God in
sickness.
</div>

Experiencing a sickness of the mind, you might say.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To believe that a Son of God CAN be sick is to believe that part of God
can suffer. Love CANNOT suffer because it can not attack. The
remembrance of love therefore brings &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what? Not judgment and punishment &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; invulnerability with it.

Do not side with sickness in the presence of a Son of God even if HE
believes in it&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; now this applies in two ways. It applies to those who think
they are ill with a disease.

But you do not want to side with sickness in the Presence of a Son of
God&mdash;meaning you do not want to join with him in his false
definitions of himself or of the Kingdom of Heaven that he thinks is
just the world&mdash;full of material flowers and bugs and human beings
and trees that are far from Ultimate, and that someday he&rsquo;ll die
out of, with a chance of experiencing something Ultimate. You do not
want to join or side with sickness of that sort in the Presence of a Son
of God, even if he believes in it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; for YOUR acceptance of God in him ACKNOWLEDGES the Love of God
which he has forgotten.
</div>

Every night Paul says a prayer&mdash;he asks for healing for everyone.
And actually he uses the word &ldquo;everywhen,&rdquo; meaning beyond
the current sense of time and location&mdash;everywhere, everywhen. He
asks for healing for everywhen&mdash;as opposed to
everyone&mdash;everywhen, who is asking for healing, even if they are
only expressing it as hope with little faith.

People can go to bed hungry at night and hope that maybe they&rsquo;ll
find something to eat tomorrow. And they can hope it, but not have much
faith that it will come to pass. And Paul knows, not intellectually, but
from a revealed level, that when he asks for this for them, he brings
the faith that they don&rsquo;t have. And so he asks for what
they&rsquo;re asking for with the faith they don&rsquo;t have, and
thereby, does it for them; brings the faith into the equation for them
because at the moment they can&rsquo;t see it, they can&rsquo;t feel it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your recognition of him &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your Brother &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; as PART of God teaches him the truth about himself, which HE is
denying. Would you STRENGTHEN his denial of God, and thus lose sight of
YOURSELF? Or would you remind him of his wholeness, and remember your
Creator WITH him?
</div>

You see? That&rsquo;s what you get to keep when you extend it to your
Brother.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To believe a Son of God is sick is to worship the same idol he does. God
created love, NOT idolatry. All forms of idolatry are caricatures of
creation&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; caricatures. You know, cartoons, imaginations, fantasies. Not
anything you could really find in the world, although Volkswagen comes
close these days.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God created love, NOT idolatry. All forms of idolatry are caricatures of
creation&hellip;
</div>

Pictures you&rsquo;ve created in your mind, and defined, and made
commitment to.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
All forms of idolatry are caricatures of creation, taught by sick minds
&hellip;
</div>

Minds that aren&rsquo;t clear, in other words. Minds that are confused.
Minds that are conflicted.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; which are too divided to know that creation &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the act of Creation &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; SHARES power and NEVER usurps it. Sickness is idolatry because
it is the belief that power can be taken FROM you. Yet this is
impossible &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; because you&rsquo;re not behind the Point of Perfection
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; because you are part of God&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; Are. Current. Present tense. Are part of God &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; Who IS all power.
</div>

A conflicted mind is the only definition of sickness there really is.

What you call &ldquo;sickness,&rdquo; physical sickness, is simply the
only way you can see the Kingdom of Heaven, or a part of the Kingdom of
Heaven, when you&rsquo;re looking through the lens of conflict and fear
and everything that&rsquo;s associated with it. And the only reason you
would indulge in being conflicted is because you don&rsquo;t know Who
You Are. Remember this, because the answer to the conflict lies in
remembering Who You Are&mdash;that you are royalty, you are Divine, you
are Ultimate, and you don&rsquo;t have to put up with this shit. You see
what I&rsquo;m saying? You need to arrive at a feeling in you that says,
&ldquo;What I am experiencing is inappropriate, unacceptable. I
don&rsquo;t have to be experiencing this.&rdquo;

Well, you&rsquo;ve got to be careful because you could say,
&ldquo;Because I&rsquo;m above it all.&rdquo; No, you&rsquo;re not
better than it. You are the absence of it. You are the Singularity. You
are the Presence of God in whom all of this shit is absent. It
doesn&rsquo;t have to be gotten rid of. It has to be seen for what it
is&mdash;something that it&rsquo;s not your Birthright to be
experiencing. And therefore, it is something you can&rsquo;t truly be
experiencing. And therefore, it is something that cannot continue to
present itself to you as though it is real, because you&rsquo;re not
going to validate it any longer. Not because you&rsquo;ve conquered it.
You&rsquo;re just not going to be fooled any longer, because
you&rsquo;re remembering Who You Are.

And then, remember this. When you feel like saying, &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t
have to put up with this shit,&rdquo; and you add, &ldquo;that so-and-so
is dishing out,&rdquo; be careful that you don&rsquo;t fall into the
trap. Because you&rsquo;ve got to follow that by saying, &ldquo;And
neither does he or she have to put up with this shit, because he or she
is truly the Presence of God that is the nonexistence of what seems to
be triggering their behavior.&rdquo; It isn&rsquo;t real for them
either. You see? Then your statement that, &ldquo;you don&rsquo;t have
to put up with this shit that they seem to be dishing out,&rdquo; does
not become an egotistical state of position relative to them, because
you immediately follow that by bringing them into the circle&mdash;that
they don&rsquo;t deserve it either because it&rsquo;s not the Truth
About Them either.

And what is Divinely True About Them is they&rsquo;re not behind the
Point of Perfection and they need to understand themselves therefrom.
And therefore, you&rsquo;re not going to arrogantly &ldquo;overcome
their shit that they&rsquo;re laying on you&rdquo;&mdash;you are going
to be in a way that&rsquo;s recognizably Love and that provides the
environment for them to experience a sudden shift of perception&mdash;a
miracle.

Now we are going to stop here because you need a week to digest what
I&rsquo;ve said, before we can contend with what comes next. Sometimes
you all move too fast because there&rsquo;s such eagerness and
impatience that you don&rsquo;t let something sink in and jell with you,
providing a basis for what is to come to be heard more completely, more
fully.

So, enjoy this week, and remember to let there be many points during
your day of intimacy with any object that&rsquo;s in your immediate
vicinity, where you bring a curiosity to see the Awesome Gloriousness of
Real Creation happening in front of you. And I use the word
&ldquo;intimacy&rdquo; on purpose, because intimacy requires attention.
And I want you to, even if it&rsquo;s for thirty seconds at a time, to
really bring your full attention to this practice. And, remember that
you&rsquo;re engaging in this practice to help trigger the remembrance
of the fact that what I&rsquo;m asking you to do is the normal, ongoing,
Eternal State of Being Conscious. And so you&rsquo;re just inviting
little tastes of it here and there, lightly, without a sense of
overcoming sin, and letting a sudden shift of perception occur, if it
occurs.

Remember, you&rsquo;ve got to be the mother or the father who
doesn&rsquo;t let you forget What You Divinely Are. And just because you
didn&rsquo;t, doesn&rsquo;t mean that you really are the slob you think
you are.

Okay. [hand clap] I look forward to being with you next week. And I love
you all.

Okay.

[^1]: T9.8 The Decision to Forget

