---
title: May 22, 2005
ref: "T9.8 The Decision to Forget"
alink: "/acim/text/09/chap0908/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who is joining us on the Internet.

Let&rsquo;s go right to the book. And just for continuity, I&rsquo;m
going to back up to the beginning of the paragraph.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You do not realize how much you listen to your gods, and how vigilant
you are on their behalf.
</div>

And remember that your &ldquo;gods&rdquo; are the likenesses that you
have created&mdash;the new definitions that you have applied to Aspects
of the Kingdom of Heaven and to which you have committed yourself rather
than to what they really Are.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You do not realize how much you listen to your gods, and how vigilant
you are on their behalf. Yet they exist only BECAUSE you honor them.
Place honor where it is due, and peace will be yours. It is your
inheritance from your REAL Father.
</div>

Peace is.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You cannot make your Father, and the father you made did not make you.
</div>

The &ldquo;father&rdquo; you made are the likenesses that you created
which apparently give evidence to your independent, autonomous self, and
which you have subsequently come to serve because you feel they are so
valuable to your continued, supposed, successful, separate existence
from your Source.

Continuing &hellip; 

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Honor is not due to illusions&hellip;

Honor is not due to illusions, for to honor them is to honor
nothing. Yet fear is not due them either, for nothing cannot be fearful.
</div>

Well, many of you, as you have moved along your spiritual path and have
come to recognize that the ego is not your friend, have come to believe
that it&rsquo;s your enemy and that you need to be alert, fearful, in
fact, about what it might do to foul things up in your life. You think
that it is something to be alert for, and cautious around, and afraid
of.

But, it&rsquo;s nothing but a hypothesis that you&rsquo;re treating as
an actuality. And so, to be afraid of it is to be afraid of nothing. And
it&rsquo;s a foolish use of your mind and attention.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have chosen to fear love BECAUSE of its perfect harmlessness&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your independent autonomy and authority. And so, you engage in
ongoing battle to prove your existence. That&rsquo;s why you fear Love,
because Love does not call upon the skills of a warrior. Love does not
call for defense. And so Love is a fearful thing because it means
unemployment. Why? Because of its perfect harm-less-ness.

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have chosen to fear love BECAUSE of its perfect harmlessness, and
because of this fear, you have been willing to give up your own perfect
helpfulness and your own perfect Help.
</div>

Well, what&rsquo;s your own perfect Help? It&rsquo;s the Holy
Spirit&mdash;that which you find at the altar in the center of you which
is nothing more than your right Mind.

Your right Mind is not the mind of the warrior. So now &hellip;
[chuckling] now not only does your warrior&mdash;the warrior that you
have defined yourself as&mdash;not only does it become unemployed, if
you Wake up, it becomes extinct. It disappears. This is a very fearful
thing to that mindset&mdash;that frame of reference.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Only at the altar of God will you find peace. And this altar is in you
because God put it there.
</div>

It&rsquo;s in you because it is You. Your right Mind is not actually in
you&mdash;it is You.

But when you chose to use your mind independent of the Father, in denial
of the Father, it was in denial of your right Mind. And so you found
yourself to be separated from it. And so, from this independent vantage
point, which could be called a three-dimensional vantage point, the only
way your right Mind can be conceived of is as something in you&mdash;the
altar in the very center of your Being.

And it seems to be something you can approach because you have distanced
yourself from it imaginarily, but with such commitment that you believe
your belief. And so now that which is You seems to be something that you
can approach, that you can go within to and arrive at. But all
you&rsquo;re really doing is coming back into the natural, fuller
capacity that is divinely yours, because you Are the right Mind that God
is Being right there where you Are.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Only at the altar of God will you find peace. And this altar is in you
because God put it there. His Voice still calls you to return, and He
will be heard when you place no other gods before Him.
</div>

In other words, when you no longer &ldquo;make unto thee any likeness of
any thing that is in the heaven above, the earth beneath or the waters
under the earth.&rdquo;2 When you no longer place an image or a likeness
of something in your mind and give preference to the likeness that you
have created in your mind, then you will have no other gods before Him
and you will Wake up.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You can give up the god of sickness for your brothers; in fact, you
would HAVE to do so if you [would] give him &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the god of sickness &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; up for yourself.
</div>

You see? You can&rsquo;t claim your freedom from sickness without at the
same time claiming your Brother&rsquo;s freedom from sickness.
That&rsquo;s why you can&rsquo;t abandon your Brother in his ignorance
and go along your merry, spiritual path and expect to have the
fulfillment that is due you because you are the Son or Daughter of God.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; in fact, you would HAVE to do so &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; give up the god of sickness for your Brothers &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; if you give him up for yourself. For if you see him
anywhere&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the god of sickness &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you have accepted him. And if you accept him, you WILL bow down
and worship him, because he was made as God&rsquo;s replacement.
</div>

Like any other likeness that you have created, it was made to replace
the direct conscious experience of &ldquo;what the likeness is a
likeness of.&rdquo; In other words, the spiritual Original.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the god of sickness &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is the belief that you can CHOOSE which god is real.
</div>

You see? This stepped back a step. You can say, &ldquo;Oh, I have a
stomach ache or I have this disease or that disease, and this is the god
of sickness.&rdquo; But really the god of sickness is that you think you
have a capacity to make-up a likeness and have it become real, and then
have the capacity to make a choice between it and what is Real. You see?

What happens is, when you say, &ldquo;Mmm, that is a lampshade. And that
lampshade is made out of fibers and paper and other material elements.
It is inanimate. It is matter. It has nothing to do with God. It was
made by human beings, having been conceived by a mind in their brain, in
their head.&rdquo; And you have now created a likeness.

There is Something there. There truly is Something there that is divine,
that is absolutely divine and the substance of it is Life itself, Living
Love, right here, right now. That&rsquo;s the Truth about it. But the
definition I first gave is a made-up definition that is contrary to the
Truth about it. And that definition, if accepted, causes you to
experience an image, a likeness of what is Real that has no Truth to it
at all. It stands between you, then, and the Presence of God that is
really there. And as long as you give commitment to it, it blinds you to
the Presence of God. Your definition becomes the replacement for what is
Really there.

And you will serve that. You will serve that replacement because it does
provide confirmation to you that you are indeed able to successfully
create a replacement for God. And that makes you&mdash;as an independent
authorizer&mdash;seem to be validated. It seems to make you as an
independent authorizer real.

Now, you have created a context in which you have the capacity to choose
between the Real thing or the likeness&mdash;which is utterly
fallacious, the most absurd of imaginations.  And that is really
&ldquo;the god of sickness.&rdquo; You could call it, &ldquo;the god of
mental illness,&rdquo; &ldquo;the god of insanity.&rdquo;

The god of sickness &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is the belief that you can CHOOSE which god is real.
</div>

So if you want to cut through any illusion&mdash;whether it is sickness,
whether it&rsquo;s disease, whether it&rsquo;s death, whether it&rsquo;s
injury, whether it&rsquo;s jealousy, whether it&rsquo;s strife&mdash;if
you want to cut through it quickly, don&rsquo;t give your attention to
the elements of the strife. Give your attention to the fundamental false
idea that you have a capacity to make a choice between God and an
&ldquo;image of God&rdquo; that you&rsquo;ve made. Attend to the idiotic
idea that you can function in a way that God did not give you the
capacity to function.

Instead of saying, &ldquo;I&rsquo;ve got to find a way to deal with this
cancer that seems to be in my body, or this cancer that seems to be in
my friend&rsquo;s body,&rdquo; you need to say, &ldquo;I need to deal
with a fundamental premise that I have a capacity to see something that
isn&rsquo;t there.&rdquo; Now that cuts right to the chase.

And then, instead of saying, &ldquo;Well, how could I have come to have
this capacity? What flaw is there or was there, in me that allowed me, a
Child of God, to do this?&rdquo;&mdash;and then go on an internal
witch-hunt&mdash;you say, &ldquo;Father, show me what You are Being
right there. I don&rsquo;t give a hoot about how I came to see something
else. I don&rsquo;t care to find out what was wrong with me that caused
me to see something that wasn&rsquo;t Real. Father, I want to cut to the
chase, and I want to know from You what You &hellip; &rdquo;

Okay. Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the god of sickness, or we could say, &ldquo;the god of
illusion &hellip;&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is the belief that you can CHOOSE which god is real. Although
it is perfectly clear that this has nothing to do with reality, it is
equally clear that it has EVERYTHING to do with reality as you perceive
it.
</div>

So as long as you are indulging in the belief that you have a capacity
to see things the way you want to see them, you will experience a
distorted perception of the Kingdom of Heaven, right as you look at it,
right as you are seeing it. And you are not seeing a new creation at
all.

The next section is called:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*Magic versus Miracles*[^1]

All magic is a form of reconciling the irreconcilable.
</div>

It&rsquo;s what all of you engage in all the time. Because you live in
the middle of the Kingdom of Heaven, you are the Christ experiencing the
Kingdom of Heaven because that is your Mind&rsquo;s function, and at the
same time you are choosing to apply your own definitions to everything
and live as though you are not in the Kingdom of Heaven while you are in
the Kingdom of Heaven, and thus have a simultaneous, dual existence.
Thus you are constantly attempting to reconcile the irreconcilable.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
All religion is the recognition that the irreconcilable cannot BE
reconciled.
</div>

That&rsquo;s the real meaning of the word &ldquo;religion.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Sickness and perfection ARE irreconcilable. If God created you perfect,
you ARE perfect. If you believe you can be sick, you have placed other
gods before Him.
</div>

Likenesses in place of What God Is Being right there, which you&rsquo;re
giving preference to.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God is not at war with the god of sickness you made, but YOU are. He is
the symbol of willing AGAINST God&hellip;

He &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the god of sickness &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is the symbol of willing AGAINST God, and you are afraid of him
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your creation &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; BECAUSE he cannot be reconciled with God&rsquo;s Will. If you
attack him, you will make him real to you.
</div>

This is why I have often said, &ldquo;The only defense you have against
the ego is disregard.&rdquo; The only thing the ego cannot defend itself
against is disregard. The only thing that your infrastructure of false
beliefs that you are constantly trying to validate cannot defend itself
against is disregard. And when you disregard it, you&rsquo;re taking
away your willingness to constantly try to reinforce it &hellip; and
thus it begins to crumble.

This little practice I gave you of taking time to be intimate with the
things that confront you in your experience, is a very effective way of
weakening your willingness to reinforce that which stands between you
and God. And at the bottom line, what is it that stands between you and
God? Your decision to see things your way. It isn&rsquo;t all the false
things you&rsquo;re seeing. It isn&rsquo;t all the conflicted things
that are threatening you. It&rsquo;s that you chose to say, &ldquo;I
want to see things my way.&rdquo; And in choosing to see things your
way, you put yourself in a position of seeing everything falsely, and
therefore, as a threat to you. Not because everything is actually a
threat, but because you&rsquo;re trying to act or behave as though
you&rsquo;re out of your Mind&mdash;outside of God, in other words.

It says here:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you are afraid of him &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the god of sickness &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; BECAUSE he cannot be reconciled with God&rsquo;s Will.
</div>

Well, let&rsquo;s bring this right home. God&rsquo;s Will is your will
when you&rsquo;re in your right Mind. And so what you have created by
means of your definitions stand at odds with your Sane capacity to
experience everything truly. Therefore, your
&ldquo;creations&rdquo;&mdash;and here I mean your development of
likenesses&mdash;cannot be reconciled with what you divinely Are. They
not only block you from the direct experience of God, they block you
from your very own Sanity&mdash;your right Mind.

You cannot be comfortable engaging with something that is at odds with
your fundamental Being and be comfortable. You cannot act at odds with
your Self and be comfortable, because your unchanging Sanity will
provide you with alarms that tell you &ldquo;you&rsquo;re off the
beam,&rdquo; that you are trying to be something that you cannot be.

And the noise of the alarm, you will call a distressing experience. The
problem, as I have said before, is that you then attempt to do something
to get rid of the alarm by manipulating your definitions, instead of
abandoning them, which is the only thing that will cause your Sanity
that you can&rsquo;t get rid of, to stop telling you that you&rsquo;re
trying to do something you cannot do.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the god of sickness &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is the symbol of willing AGAINST God, and you are afraid of him
BECAUSE he cannot be reconciled with God&rsquo;s Will. If you attack
him&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the god of sickness, which we could call &ldquo;the ego
&hellip;&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you will make him real to you. But if you refuse to worship him
in whatever form he may appear to you and wherever you think you see
him, he will &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; disappear into the nothingness out of which he was made.
</div>

Why? Because you&rsquo;re going to be confronted with something awesome.
You&rsquo;re going to be confronted with a miracle&mdash;a sudden shift
of perception&mdash;in which the Truth will be so clear to you that
there won&rsquo;t be any capacity in you to be interested in the dull,
monotonous, uncomfortable experience of a split mind. You will suck in
the awesome. And by virtue of your total abandonment of any investment
in reinforcing the ego or the god of sickness, it will vanish from your
mind.

What do all of you metaphysical warriors do to defend that which is
vulnerable? You think. You think righteous thoughts. You think the
truth. You look for a more powerful truth to think. You busy your mind
with what you call &ldquo;the truth,&rdquo; so that you won&rsquo;t be
distracted by a clearer recognition that you&rsquo;re not thinking
clearly, that you are using your mind in an erroneous way.

But, continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Reality can dawn only on an unclouded mind.
</div>

That is why silence is your salvation. That is why listening is
essential and so valuable. Because in the silence of your mind, there
are no clouds of dissonance, tension, strife, fear, anxiety and on, and
on, and on.

When you go into the quietness of your Being, you abandon your
warriorhood. Now it is such a habit that you might not be able to
abandon it for more than a moment in the beginning, but as you practice,
the moments will grow longer and longer and longer, until they&rsquo;re
long enough for you to recognize that these experiences are not
psychological flukes or an absence of synapses in your brain, but are a
Real experience of your Being. And as that begins to become clear to
you, you begin to realize that you can make a choice between
fear&mdash;your warrior-mentality that sees everything as a potential
threat&mdash;and your Peace in which you see no threat whatsoever. And
you are able to be present with your world in an entirely new way that
has nothing to do with warriorhood, but has to do with fulfillment that
you haven&rsquo;t earned or obtained by conquest. It simply is there.
And it simply is You. And there&rsquo;s nothing to be done about it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Reality can dawn only on an unclouded mind. It is always there to be
accepted&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; ever-present &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; but its acceptance depends on your willingness to HAVE it.
</div>

&ldquo;Oh, of course, I&rsquo;m willing to have it.&rdquo; Not as a
warrior, you&rsquo;re not. Because if you let yourself have it, all of
the things that seemed to make you a valuable and successful entity will
no longer be employed. And you will temporarily feel valueless. Why?
Because you&rsquo;re not used to experiencing fulfillment that you
haven&rsquo;t had to achieve through conquest. And so, how can
fulfillment that you haven&rsquo;t had to achieve by conquest truly be
yours &hellip; already?

But you&rsquo;ve separated yourself from it. You say,
&ldquo;That&rsquo;s not me. But I want a little bit of that. And so I
will conquer this territory.&rdquo; Nowadays you conquer it with money.
You pay enough and you obtain it&mdash;you claim it. Now you say,
&ldquo;It is mine. I did what was necessary to claim it and make it my
possession. Now it is part of me.&rdquo; But that little plot of land
you got, plus Saturn in the sky, is yours, is You &hellip; already, just
because. Just because that is the nature of Being&mdash;your Being.

To the warrior it is insulting to be loved so much that every single one
of your needs is met without your having to raise a finger. That is an
insult to the warrior-mentality. And the insult is something all of you
are going to have to get past.

&ldquo;Well, I have everything I need. I have everything and more than I
could have wanted. And the quality and the exquisiteness of it all is
far beyond my wildest imaginings. But it makes me feel useless. I used
to get my sense of worth out of having clear-cut goals and taking
whatever steps were necessary to achieve the goals. Even the most
excellent things that I did that blessed others were a result of my
having goals that I, step-by-step, caused to manifest in my life,
proving that I was valuable. Now this sort of automatic fullness renders
me impotent, without even an occasion for demonstrating my
potency.&rdquo;

That&rsquo;s why you fear Love &hellip; because of its perfect
harmlessness. And in the presence of the total experience of its perfect
harmlessness, you are rendered nothing.

How can a warrior be happy with nothing to conquer? How can a warrior be
happy being whole? The warrior can&rsquo;t. And so Waking up means that
you&rsquo;re going to have to abandon the warrior-mentality, together
with all of the aspects of the warrior-psychology that you were
employing for the sole purpose of demonstrating your worth and your
validity. And you&rsquo;re going to have to yield to, succumb to, having
all without one iota of effort being put forth by you to have it.

And then you&rsquo;re going to have to let in the idea that you have it
because you are the offspring of Love itself. It is gifted to you
because it is the nature of Love to not withhold any of what it is from
its self-expression. And that this Love that you are Loved by is itself
the ultimate demonstration of your worth, of the high esteem in which
you are held, because Love recognizes you for what you Are before you
raise a little finger or take one tiny step on your own.

So you will have to tough out the transition from warrior-hood to the
Real conscious experience of Being&mdash;of wholeness, of singularity.
So that you can not only become familiar with it so that it no longer
seems strange to you, but so that you might also have the realization
that you are whole because you are Loved because you are ultimately
significant and ultimately worthy.

So again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Reality can dawn only on an unclouded mind. It is always there to be
accepted, but its acceptance depends on your willingness to HAVE it.
</div>

Your willingness to have it will be demonstrated by your willingness to
abandon that which keeps you from having it&mdash;the
&ldquo;warrior-mind.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To know reality must involve the willingness to judge UNREALITY for what
it is.
</div>

Not valuable. You must be willing to judge warrior-hood for what it
is&mdash;an absolute impediment to your joy and your peace and your
fulfillment. Steps you took in the wrong direction, for wrong reasons,
based upon an ignorance of how it all really works because you had said
at some point, &ldquo;Father, I would rather do it myself. Father, I
would rather see it my way.&rdquo;

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To know reality must involve the willingness to judge UNREALITY for what
it is. This is the RIGHT use of selective perception. To overlook
nothingness is merely to judge it correctly, and because of your ability
to evaluate it truly&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; TO LET IT GO.
</div>

Not so that you can tangle with it. Not so that you can object to it.
Not so that you can force it out of your experience. [laughing] But so
that you can, like this piece of paper between my fingers, open the
fingers up and just let it go. It will leave you because it&rsquo;s not
you.

And the only reason it was in your experience was because you constantly
reinforced its presence, because you thought it was causing you to be
something real, something significant, something respectable, something
valid. And why were you doing things to become respectable? Because you
didn&rsquo;t think you had natural, inherent respectability. Why?
Because you forgot who your Father was. You forgot the Source of your
Being and had said, &ldquo;I&rsquo;m going to determine things for
myself.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[Raj reads part of a sentence from an earlier paragraph.]
{: .omit}

&hellip; if you refuse to worship him in whatever form he may appear to
you and wherever you think you see him, he will disappear into the
nothingness out of which he was made.
</div>

And all you have to do is to evaluate it truly and let it go.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[Editor&rsquo;s Note: Raj now continues where he left off.]
{: .omit}

Knowledge &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; or what I refer to as Knowing&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; cannot dawn on a mind full of illusions&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; full of likenesses that you&rsquo;ve cluttered up your mind
with &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; because truth and illusions are irreconcilable. Truth is whole,
and CANNOT be known by part of a mind.

The Sonship cannot be perceived as PARTLY sick because to perceive it
that way is not to perceive it at all.
</div>

Why? Because it is a singularity, a wholeness.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If the Sonship is one, it is one in ALL respects. Oneness CANNOT be
divided. If you perceive other gods &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; likenesses. If you perceive likenesses that you&rsquo;ve
created &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; your mind is split, and you will not be able to LIMIT the split
because the split IS the sign that you have removed part of your mind
from God&rsquo;s Will&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that was the bill of divorcement that you put into place
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and this means it is out of control.
</div>

[Chuckles] Of course, it&rsquo;s out of control. You have said, &ldquo;I
do not want to be in Your Control, Father. I do not want to be a puppet
at the end of Your strings, exhibiting all of the infinite, exquisite
creativity of Your Being that the strings that connect me to You, cause
me to embody spontaneously and naturally without my having to earn the
right to give expression to them.  I&rsquo;d rather not have that
connection, God. I&rsquo;d rather not have You be controlling me. I
would rather not have the insulting experience of being a kept man or a
kept woman.&rdquo;

And so you seem to be lacking the control that infinite harmony would
establish in you. And your existence is a state of chaos out of which
you are determined to make or create order. And every act you engage in
of creating order out of this chaos will prove to God that you are a
viable and valid entity without strings. And that becomes your goal.
That becomes your addiction. And every bit of energy you put into it,
keeps you insane. In other words, not seeing clearly.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To be out of control is to be out of REASON, and the mind DOES become
unreasonable without reason. This is merely a matter of definition. By
DEFINING the mind wrongly, you perceive it as FUNCTIONING wrongly.
</div>

By defining the Kingdom of Heaven wrongly, you see it as functioning
wrongly. And so that which is the infinitude of your Being that is
perfectly in harmony with you because you are divine and singularity,
becomes a world of threat, of potential dangers, a cause for constantly
being on guard so as not to be overwhelmed by the unexpected.

When you define something wrongly, you will perceive it as functioning
wrongly. Those two things go hand in hand. And you don&rsquo;t correct
the wrong functioning by manipulating what you&rsquo;re looking at. You
correct it by letting go of the definition that is wrong that you are
holding, by letting go of the wrong use of your mind&mdash;the
impractical use of your mind.

And for you to go through your days determining what you&rsquo;re going
to do and how you&rsquo;re going be based upon memory, rather than a
connectedness with the place of Excellence in you&mdash;the Holy Spirit,
your right Mind&mdash;you are bound to see things incorrectly and behave
incorrectly and cause yourself to feel an even greater need to
manipulate the situation, rather than correcting the use of your mind
that you&rsquo;re putting your mind to.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God&rsquo;s laws &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; which simply means, &ldquo;the Way Things Work, and the only
Way Things Work &hellip;&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; will keep your minds at peace because peace is His Will, and
His laws &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Way Things Work &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; are established to uphold it. His are the laws of freedom, but
yours are the laws of bondage. Since freedom and bondage are
irreconcilable, their laws cannot BE understood together. The laws of
God work only for your good, and there ARE no other laws beside His.
Everything else is merely lawless, and therefore chaotic.
</div>

It&rsquo;s so simple. You are the Sons and Daughter of God. And if you
behave as though you are not, there&rsquo;s going to be the unavoidable
recognition that you&rsquo;re doing something or attempting to do
something impossible. And the recognition will be called
&ldquo;dissonance.&rdquo; Something significant enough to catch your
attention so that you might say, &ldquo;Wow! This doesn&rsquo;t work.
I&rsquo;m going to abandon this tack that I&rsquo;ve taken. And
I&rsquo;m going to yield to the Way Things Work. I&rsquo;m going to
allow myself to be the puppet of the Way Things Work.&rdquo;

Everything we&rsquo;ve talked about tonight might seem to be complicated
or difficult to grasp, but it&rsquo;s utterly simple. And even if part
of you feels thrown off balance by it, part of you understood it
perfectly&mdash;I mean actually consciously every bit of it made sense.
The feeling of being thrown by a loop for it, comes from the fact that
you don&rsquo;t know what to do with the information. Well, you see,
that&rsquo;s the warrior-mentality. Information is something to be
useful, to be put to use to make something happen.

I want you to let yourself be, just be in whatever level of uneasiness
you&rsquo;re experiencing. And just abide with the information. Stay
with the part of you that understood it perfectly. And recognize that
the part of you that is thrown by it, is the part you need to abandon.
It&rsquo;s the old warrior-perspective, and it cannot understand it. And
if it can, it will try to get you to re-engage in using the information
for some goal. But your clear understanding of what I&rsquo;ve said,
constitutes an experience of relief for you because you really feel the
fact that there&rsquo;s nothing to be done about it, except to let the
feeling and the experience in, and abide with it&mdash;have an intimate
moment with it &hellip; an ongoing intimate moment with it.

We will end there. Okay.

[^1]: T9.8 The Decision to Forget

