---
title: Jun 5, 2005
ref: T9.9 Magic vs Miracles
alink: "/acim/text/09/chap0909/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who is joining us on the Internet.

Have you ever noticed how your daily social interactions and your social life
with friends is usually made up of interactions or discussions that have at
their root [laughing] your not knowing “what the answer is” about this, that,
or the other thing? You basically spend your time talking about “*What if* this?”
or “*What if* that?” What if China behaved differently? What *if* Bush does this?
What if the economy keeps getting worse? What if there was a new way to do
this, or that, or the other thing?

As long as you can come up with some really interesting “what ifs,” you can be
the center of attention. You can be the contributor to a wonderful evening of
conversation, and you can come home and feel as though you had spent your
evening well and something of substance had happened. In other words, your
social lives, your interactions with each other *thrive* on not knowing “what the
answer is.”

I’m going to say, in light of the Christ that each one of you is, that
*you feign* ignorance for the purpose of having an interesting evening.
Why do I say
you feign ignorance? Because you have the capacity to know “what the answer is”
and you’re not choosing to utilize it.

Hey, [laughing] you’re having a wonderful party. Twenty, thirty people are
standing around chatting, talking. Some parts of the group are more animated
than others. But what if in each group the answer was arrived at? Oh,
[laughing] what would you do then? I mean, what would there be to talk about?
What would be a reason for interaction? What if everybody came to the party
already knowing the answers? [laughing] What would you do?

When we get together as we are right now, we’re not having that kind of social
interaction. What I’m talking about is not a “what if” but a “*what is*.” You
see, as long as you stay in the “*what if*” mode, you never arrive at anything
you have to commit to. And yet, to *know* the Truth and *make commitment* to it, is
the whole point.

Now, in your social interactions, you tend to group together with people who
are asking similar “what ifs.” You might be a seamstress, or a quilter, or
a&hellip; you know, and you get together with others because they say, “Well,
what if you did it this way? It would be easier. It would be more efficient.
You could get your points perfect, and so on and so forth.” And those quilters
would not get together with auto mechanics who are saying, “What if we work on
the hydraulic system and tweak it this way or that way to get better mileage or
better speed?” You see? You tend to group together with those who ask similar
“what ifs.”

And those in a metaphysical or spiritual vein will get together with others who
are asking “what ifs.” What if God is All? What if sickness really is an
illusion? And you can still get caught in never getting to the answer. You can
enjoy the possibilities presented by the “what ifs” that come up, but then
a brother, or a father, or a husband, or a good friend says, “The *doctor* has
said blah, blah, blah, and has only given me so many months to live.” *Now* you
find yourself in a very uncomfortable position—a position you wouldn’t find
yourself in if you had not been using your prior time just enjoying the
potentials brought up by “what ifs.” *Now* you come to a point where there’s
a requirement to make a commitment to something. Because until you make
*commitment* to Truth, the *force* of Truth will *not* proceed *from you*. This is the
reason I keep saying to take every opportunity you can to have an intimate
moment with *anything* in your experience so that *you can* shift gears from
a “what if” to an experience *of What Is Real*, when there aren’t heavy-duty
dynamics associated with it.

Now there seem to be *two orders* of reality. Actually there only seems
to be *one real* order of reality and that’s the one described by your
doctors and your
scientists. And your world, generally speaking, starts with the big bang
theory. The world is a material universe functioning according to laws of
physics. Laws of matter is another way of putting it. But then there are those
spiritual folk who say, “But there is a God. And God is Supreme. And God’s Laws
govern. And they don’t coincide with the laws of physics. What are called ‘the
laws of physics’ *can serve* God’s Laws, but in and of themselves they *are not*
absolute.” So now we seem to have two orders of reality.

And if you’re a student of the *Course*, or if you are in a metaphysical vein,
you talk in terms of God’s Laws being Real, and material laws being an illusion
or being *unreal*. And so these two orders of reality are called “Reality” and
“unreality,” but you still have two orders going on. And *you will* seem to have
two orders of reality going on until you withdraw your *commitment* from one and
invest it in the Real One.

You see, when you got your divorce from the Father, you gave your allegiance to
(in quotes) “unreality”—the likenesses that you made-up to replace What
Everything Really Was. And then you made commitment to your definitions.
Because you made commitment, you brought your will—which is a Divine Will, it’s
the only Will there is—you brought it into play *and* your decision has governed
your experience. It *makes* God and God’s Laws *seem to be* otherworldly—spiritual
in the sense of not really having too much to do with the material
world—ethereal, evanescent, wispy, wonderful, but not really relevant.

And so, in many ways, the Laws of God and God being the only Creator is really
rather *unreal*— [knocking on the table] not real, tangible, solid. [knocking on
the table] Stuff that makes noise, stuff that hurts your knuckles if you hit it
too hard, you see, that’s *real*.

Now, the warrior that all of you are to some degree or another, is really the
Christ using his or her power poorly. Now what are you going to do, if you
decide [to do anything] upon hearing of the potential demise of a friend, or
a relative, or a mate—as a warrior what are you going to do? Let me put it this
way. In order to respond as an agent *for change*, meaning change from the status
quo, you, as the Christ, are going to have to use the very same capacities that
you “as the Christ pretending to be a warrior” were using.

What are the characteristics of a warrior? Well, commitment to purpose,
diligence, unswerving allegiance, strength, the capacity to commit fully. You
see, there isn’t really a warrior with those capacities. There is *the Christ*
with those capacities *pretending* to be a warrior. And what you’re called upon
to do, in order to actually be an agent for change, is to bring those very same
qualities and capacities into play on behalf of *What Is* True. In other words,
on behalf of the Order of Reality that is the only Real One, even though you
have come to believe that that one is vague, wispy, spiritual, and therefore,
not really, really, very relevant to the human condition—when the fact is it’s
*absolutely relevant* to the human condition because “the human condition” is
what *you* are calling the Kingdom of Heaven and Life as a Christ. You see?
You’re calling it something different from What It Is.

Tell me, what would be the point of our sharing these ideas that I’ve been
talking about if it weren’t for the purpose of your being able to face a dire
circumstance, what is termed “a dire circumstance,” in a way that contributes
to its disappearance? Well, someone this past week said, “I don’t think I have
a snowball’s chance in hell at [small laugh] being able to be an agent for
change.” Someone else said, “Well, I’ve *never seen* cancer healed, or, I’ve
never *seen* this problem overcome.” Well, I promise you, you never will see it
overcome if you adopt that attitude, or continue to reinforce that attitude.
You will never see a change, a healing, if you are unwilling to step outside
the box and look outside your current definitions. And so you all need to get
about the business of consciously, purposely intending to see things with new
eyes because it’s your Birthright to be seeing the Kingdom of Heaven, instead
of “the human condition” that you’re claiming is what is going on instead of
the Kingdom of Heaven *right* where the Kingdom of Heaven is.

Now a warrior would stand up to the problem, whatever the dire circumstance is,
and find a way to beat it. But, for lack of better words, an Awakening Christ,
one who is not caught in the warrior role and mental attitude, would say, “I
challenge the god of sickness by challenging the idea that I have the capacity
to choose between God and the gods I made-up. I challenge the idea, the belief,
that I have the capacity to see something that God is not being right here,
right now, nor has He ever been.” You see, the Awakening Christ, leaving the
warrior stance, doesn’t try to change circumstances, but calls into *question* an
*apparent capacity* that he has to see something that isn’t Real, to see
something that isn’t True—meaning to see something that was not set into place
by the Creative Act of God. And then, using the capacity to bring full
commitment into play, he or she stands right in the face of everyone else’s
reaction to the dire news and *does not* join in with it, and with purpose and
diligence remains true to the Truth.

You say, “Well, nobody I know has ever overcome a death notice.” Well, hell, at
least you have somebody *still alive* to work with. I didn’t have that with
Lazarus. In fact his sister said, you know, laughed, scorned me, you know, “His
body stinketh.” He’d been dead so long that he’d started to decompose. You
know, this was the material view, this was the *typical view* adopted and
committed to by her and everyone else. But it wasn’t *my* view. And I couldn’t
afford to say, “Oh, yes, I know. It’s awful, isn’t it? What a loss. Everybody
is going to miss him. Yes, you are right. Nothing can be done.” You see? Hey,
and what evidence did *I have* then to rely upon of anybody else having been
raised from the dead? Not any more than you have. *But* that’s not a handicap.
*That is not a handicap*. One *with God* is a majority, is a *Singularity*.

And with your already well-developed, existing capacity to be a warrior, you
can use those qualities and capacities to *be* the Christ. You don’t have to
develop new capacities. You just have to use your capacities well, instead of
poorly. You see? You may not see how to do it, but you can see intellectually
my point. All of this that we’re talking about *is* about *being differently* in
the same old circumstances. In other words, challenging the status quo, *not* by
*overcoming* problems out there in the world, but by *withdrawing* your commitment
to a so-called “capacity” you *think* you have to see what God didn’t make.

And we’ve already talked at length about how you do that; how you withdraw from
your commitments to your definitions. You stand right in the face of the
problem that everyone else is crying and whining and grieving about, and
*you say*, “I choose for my Peace, because *in my Peace*, my capital ‘V’
*Vision* becomes
available to me, which is essential to my seeing the Truth and finding
*correction* happening.” Correction meaning visible, tangible healing where the
doctors say, “Where before I saw a problem, I see nothing but perfection.”

So don’t whine and cry because you’ve been presented with an opportunity to be
a warrior well, to be the Presence of the Christ committed to the capital “V”
*Vision of Reality*—the only Reality there really is—that heals, that corrects
the illusion for all to see. You abandon your strength, your imagined strength
over *things*, in favor of your Strength to not be distracted by what doesn’t
exist. You abandon your *allegiance* to the laws of physics. You *abandon* it in
favor of making commitment to and giving your allegiance to *Truth*—the
Omnipotence of God.

Now, before we get into the book, one last thing. When you agree with the
grievous reactions of everyone else to whatever it is the doctors have said,
you have abandoned yourself to their fate, *and* you’ve abandoned them to theirs.
I say that because if you refuse to yield to everyone’s typical response, and
you *disagree* with their typical response, and you do not validate the dire
outcome that is predicted, you do it *for yourself and them*. And the gift you
give them, you get to keep. If you want to buy into *their* mortality, you buy
into *your* mortality. And you will seem to create for yourself a fantasy of
mortality. But why? The habits are deep. The mutually-agreed-upon concepts and
definitions have been around for a while. But you don’t have to succumb to
them. And the fact is that the whole point in everything we’ve been doing leads
you specifically to the point of contradicting the presentation with whatever
clarity about Truth *you* have experienced, and standing with warrior-like
allegiance and commitment to those Truths. Not “head truths,” but *felt* Truths.

Oh, but here we get back to how everybody is conditioned to behave with each
other in social settings. And hey, you know, a whole family getting together,
family and friends commiserating over the bad news from the doctor, hey, that’s
just a party with a downbeat. It’s just a social gathering on a negative basis
where everybody doesn’t know the answer, but suggests answers, you know. “Well,
we know he’s really eternal and so we don’t have to really be so sad because we
know he won’t really die. And we know that someday we’ll be able to be with him
again.” You see? Those are apparently answers. You come up with them so as to
not feel as bad as you might otherwise feel.

But answers that are Answers *correct* the illusion, correct the problem,
*eradicate* the problem. And that’s what this is all about. So when you get this
kind of news, remember what this has all been about so that you don’t
spontaneously join in the crowd mentality and lose your opportunity to
demonstrate your immortality along with your brother’s, or father’s, or
husband’s or wife’s. You see? One could say, “Well, this is an opportunity.”
Here’s another kind of thing that you could hear in a social setting, “This is
an opportunity for me to find out whether all this that I’ve been believing in
is true or not.” You see, it’s a little bit more positive attitude. “This is my
opportunity.”

Either you love Truth, or you don’t. Either Truth is all-important to you, or
it’s not. And you don’t do something, you don’t align yourself with the Father,
you don’t turn to the Father in your extremity to *find out* whether the Truth
that you’ve been learning is true. You’ve got to be more connected than that.
You’ve got to make commitment to Truth regardless of the outcome, because you
don’t want to be participating in or experiencing delusion in any way. It’s
like it’s time to put your cards on the table to see whether you’ve got
anything in your hand or not. And if you’ve been bluffing, let it be known. And
if you’re not bluffing, then [finger snap] be consistent with what you really
believe and stop presenting yourself as though you “don’t know” because that
fits in with the group mentality; that’s safe.

Thank God for every opportunity you have to challenge what you know *cannot* be
true. And every single one of you *know* that *God, Life Itself*, the Energy and
Movement of Life Itself, is incapable of creating *anything* that comes anywhere
near death; *the snuffing out of* the slightest speck of Reality. *You know that.*
That’s what’s in your hand, and that’s what you need to put on the table, and
declare yourself *to yourself*, and become consistent, and not just appear to
play at it because that’s what everyone else does and no one likes a “Jesus
freak.” No one likes a holy, holy man. So I will *know what I know* but I will
not present myself as though I know it, not even to myself. But you come upon
circumstances that call for that kind of clarity when *you* get the bad news
about *yourself*, or *you* get the bad news about someone else.

Let’s go to the book.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The laws of God work only for your good, and there ARE no other laws beside
His.
</div>

Now, you’ve got to accept that as an Absolute Fact. It is the Truth. Either
something is, or it isn’t. There aren’t any “maybes.” There aren’t any “what
ifs.”

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The laws of God work only for your good, and there ARE no other laws beside
His. Everything else is merely lawless, and therefore chaotic. Yet God Himself
has protected everything He created BY His laws. Therefore, everything that is
not under them does not exist.  
</div> 

It’s very black and white. And that’s what commitment is. It’s very black and
white. It either is there, or it isn’t there. There aren’t any “what ifs.”
There aren’t any “maybes.”

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
“Laws of chaos&hellip;”
</div> 

&hellip; which you all talk about, and your physicists talk about it, and
therefore it seems as though you’re talking about something real because you’ve
got words naming it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
“Laws of chaos” are meaningless by definition.  
</div> 

If God is All and God is Singular, then *All of Creation exists in
Absolute Perfect Harmony*. That’s the *Law of Being*. That’s *the Law of
Existence*.

“I know,” you say, “but I look around me and I see chaos.” Then I say to you,
you look around you and see *nothing*! You look around you at the Kingdom of
Heaven and see “the human condition” and I tell you that what you’re seeing
*doesn’t exist*. Your false interpretation of the Kingdom of Heaven *is not* the
Kingdom of Heaven. And what you *think* the Kingdom of Heaven is that you’re
calling “the human condition” is a *hypothesis* and *has no actual existence*. You
are looking at your *belief* and you are seeing *nothing*.

Cancer is *nothing*, *believed* to be something. It’s an *imagination* believed to be
*more* than imagination, and then suffered from. And all of it *isn’t happening*.
That’s a radical statement. But in the Order of Reality that is Real, it is an
Absolute Statement that means that you, and your fathers and husbands, and
mothers and wives, and children, who are faced with death, *cannot possibly* be
faced with them. And therefore, you cannot afford to *join in* their belief and
the belief of everyone else around them that they can die and that they will
die.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Creation is perfectly lawful, and the chaotic is without meaning because it is
without GOD.  
</div> 

Chaos *was not* made-up in the Mind of God and chaos *was not* made-up in the Mind
of the *Son of God*. But the Son of God has had an imagination, and has imagined
things that God did not create, and then made commitment to those imaginations,
*thinking* that he has created something when he has created nothing.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have given your peace to the gods you made, but they are not there to take
it from you,&hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; there’s nothing there to take your peace away from you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and you are not able to give it to them.  
</div> 

Because there ain’t nothin’ there to give ‘em to.

You see? You see how *black and white* this is? Either *God’s Laws are Omnipotent*,
or, there are no Laws of God and everything *is* chaos. And yet, at this very
moment, if you just pay attention to where you are, chaos is not going on.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You are NOT free to give up freedom, but only to DENY it. 
</div> 

We could say you are not free to give up Reality, but only to *deny it*. You are
not free to give up being the Christ, but only to *deny it*. You are not free to
give up *Knowing*, but only to *deny it*; only to *deny* that you know. Because after
all, if you knew, it would be a pretty dull evening with the crowd tonight.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You CANNOT do what God did not intend because what He did not intend DOES NOT
HAPPEN.
</div> 

This is how *black and white* and absolute you need to get, you need to be, when
you hear so-and-so has a terminal condition, or *you* have a terminal condition.
The only way that experience, that illusion could seem to come up is if you’ve
been willing *to abandon* your Capacity to be clear—your Capacity to be clear, to
be Singular. And you do that, you all do that for many reasons—so that you
don’t stand out in the crowd, so that you don’t make waves, so you don’t stand
in receipt of others’ jealousy because they think you have more than they have,
or their hate because they don’t want to hear the answer when *you are* the
answer, and so on.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your gods do not BRING chaos; you are ENDOWING them with chaos and accepting it
of them.  
</div> 

Now, you do have a Capacity to endow things *because you’re the Christ* and you
have the Will of God as your Will.

So:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your gods do not BRING chaos; you are ENDOWING them with chaos and accepting it
of them. All this has never been.  
</div> 

Seems to have been, but it has *never* been. That *is why* there can be
instantaneous healings. Because “the thing *healed* of” has never been because
God *never created it*. And that’s why *its seeming* presence can *evaporate*
instantaneously.

And I don’t care whether you’ve never seen it happen yet. It’s the Truth
and *it does* happen. And you might begin to seek out those to associate
with who are
asking the “what if” kind of questions that *include* experiences of healing,
because they are all around your globe. They just don’t get the publicity.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Nothing but the laws of God has ever operated, and nothing except His Will will
ever be.
</div>

Is that other-worldly? Is that irrelevant? Well, you can make it irrelevant by
saying, “Yeah, in the sweet bye-and-bye I can believe that’s the case, but not
here.” And so you, with all the authority of the Christ, lay down the law and
govern your experience. And I’m saying that you, as the Christ, can lay down
a different law—a law that is in harmony with *God’s* Law.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You were created through His laws and by His Will, and the manner of your
creation established you AS creators.  
</div> 

With a Capacity to *endow*.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What you have made is so unworthy of you that you could hardly want it if you
were willing to see it AS IT IS. You will see nothing at all. And your vision
will automatically look beyond it to what is in you and all around you.  
</div> 

Listen to this again.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What you have made&hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; you know&hellip; what have you made? You’ve made a definition.

And it goes like this. If a doctor says you have terminal this or terminal
that, and shows you X-rays demonstrating that what he says is there, is really
there, [you say,] “I will *believe* him. I will take it in hook, line, and
sinker. And I *will not* object. I will agree with him completely.” And then you
cry and you anguish when you get his word—the doctor’s. But it isn’t because
you’ve gotten “*his word*.” It’s because *you* have this *definition*,
this *rule in your own mind* that says, “I will unquestionably believe
this man’s statement
without ever questioning the depth, or the breadth, or the height of his
knowledge of What Truth Is.”

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What you have made&hellip;
</div> 

&hellip;such as a rule like that&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip;is so unworthy of you that you could hardly want it if you were willing
to see it AS IT IS.  
</div> 

In other words, as just a hypothesis that’s not real, has no existence, and
that you have made commitment to it, and you’re making yourself miserable.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip;if you were willing to see it AS IT IS. You will see nothing at all.  
</div> 

You will see that there’s nothing there.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And your vision will automatically look beyond it &hellip; 
</div> 

&hellip;isn’t that what I’ve said? Look at the flower and have a moment of
intimacy with it to see the more that is there than your current definition is
allowing you to see.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip;your vision will automatically look beyond it to what is in you and all
around you. Reality cannot break through the obstructions you interpose, &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip;the likenesses that you serve. The gods that you have made-up.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Reality cannot break through the obstructions you interpose, but it WILL
envelop you completely when you let them go.  
</div> 

When you let the obstructions go. And it will envelop your brothers, and your
husbands, and your fathers, and your wives, and your friends.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you have experienced the protection of God the making of idols &hellip; 
</div> 

&hellip;images. Likenesses&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip;becomes inconceivable. There are no strange images in the Mind of God,
and what is not in His Mind cannot be in yours because you are of ONE Mind, and
that Mind belongs to HIM.  
</div> 

God.

It is yours BECAUSE it belongs to Him, &hellip;

Because it belongs to Him, His Extension of Himself *includes* All That He Is,
and so it is yours because it is His.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is yours BECAUSE it belongs to Him, for ownership is sharing to Him.  
</div> 

To have, give all to all. What you give, you get to keep.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip;ownership is sharing to Him.  
</div> 

And it thereby has to be the same for you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And if it is so for Him, it is so for you. His definitions ARE His laws, for by
them He established the universe as what it is. No false gods you attempt to
interpose between yourself and your reality affect truth at all. Peace is yours
because God created you. And He created nothing else. 
</div> 

Now, for those of you who are dealing with the pronouncements of physicians
regarding loved ones, I want you to read this section that we’re reading from
and every time it uses the word “you,” let it represent “the loved one” that
has received this determination, because then you’re knowing the Truth about
your Brother.

So, you say of your loved one:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you have experienced the protection of God the making of idols becomes
inconceivable. There are no strange images in the Mind of God, and what is not
in [the] &hellip;Mind cannot be in yours &hellip; 
</div> 

&hellip;meaning your loved one&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip;because you are of ONE Mind, and that Mind belongs to HIM.  
</div> 

God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is yours &hellip; 
</div> 

&hellip;your loved one’s&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip;BECAUSE it belongs to Him, for ownership is sharing to Him. And if it is
so for Him, it is so for you.  
</div> 

What better use could you put your mind to in response to the grief and the
sadness that your loved ones are experiencing? Could it possibly be more
beneficial for you to join them in their grief? You know better than that. So
use your mind this way.

Continuing, with reference to your loved one.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
His definitions &hellip; 
</div> 

God’s Definitions.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip;ARE His laws, for by them He established the universe as what it is. No
false gods you attempt to interpose between yourself and your reality affect
truth at all.  
</div> 

Meaning it doesn’t affect the Truth About You at all.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Peace is yours because God created you. And He created nothing else.  
</div> 

So, if something else seems to be going on, nothing else is going on.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The miracle is the act of a Son of God who has laid aside all false gods, and
who calls on his brothers to do likewise.  
</div> 

Well, how on earth could you be a participant in a miracle if you are crying
and whining and grieving along with your distressed Brother or Sister?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The miracle is the act of a Son of God who has laid aside all false gods, . .
</div> 

Who is *not validating* illusion. Who is *not validating* what can’t be true. And
[who] isn’t joining in, but is, instead, going within to the Altar and saying,
“Father, what is *the Truth* here? I don’t know enough about Reality to come to
a conclusion about this illusion. I don’t know enough about How Things Really
Work to know how upset I really ought to be under the limited circumstances
I find myself.” You see? “So, I am going to appear to be irresponsible, and not
be reactive when I don’t know yet enough of the Truth to know whether this
really is serious.” You see? “And in the absence of playing into reaction, I’m
going to stay in my Peace and I am going to listen for Your Voice. And when
I can’t hear Your Voice, I will pay attention to the *Words* of Truth that
I understand the meaning of, even if I haven’t *experienced* the Meaning of
them.”

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The miracle is the act of a Son of God who has laid aside all false gods, . .
</div> 

&hellip;mutually-agreed-upon definitions&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip;and who calls on his brothers to do likewise.  
</div> 

His brothers, his father, his mother, his wife—whoever is suffering from false
gods at the moment.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It&hellip;
</div> 

&hellip;the miracle &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip;is an act of faith because it is the recognition that his brother can do
it. It is a call to the Holy Spirit in his mind, a call to Him which is
strengthened by this joining.  
</div> 

You see? That’s your Capacity as the Christ to be the agent for change, because
you’re not joining with the little, puny ego-sense of self that sees his life
coming to an end unavoidably. And it is joining with the Eternal Christ that
*has to be there* in order for there *to seem* to be *less than that* there.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Because the miracle worker has heard Him &hellip; 
</div> 

&hellip;God&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip;he strengthens His Voice &hellip; 
</div> 

&hellip;God’s Voice&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip;in a sick brother by weakening his BELIEF in sickness, which he does NOT
share.
</div> 

You see? Your task here is to be a miracle worker, not a grieving family
member. Is that clear?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The power of one mind CAN &hellip; 
</div> 

&hellip;get that word, “*CAN*.” Not cannot.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip;CAN shine into another because all the lamps of God were lit by the same
spark. It is everywhere and it is eternal. 

In many only the spark remains, for the great rays are obscured. Yet God has
kept the spark alive so that the rays can never be completely forgotten.  
</div> 

So, when you have heard the bad news and you find yourself *unable* to keep your
Peace or your Joy and you become depressed, you’re not lost.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip;God has kept the spark alive so that the rays can never be completely
&hellip; 
</div> 

&hellip;gone&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip;forgotten. If you but see the little spark you will learn of the greater
light, for the rays are there unseen.  
</div> 

And this is your task. Your task is to be the place where the miracle can occur
right in the face of an illusion that seems to justify your abandoning your
willingness to believe the Truth.

You see? “But it’s *so* grievous. There’s no way *I can* keep my peace. It is so
grievous. And I’ve never seen anybody else escape from this. So, I’m going to
abandon the awareness of Truth that I do have.” You see? Well there’s the
Christ making a law, endowing something that doesn’t exist, or endowing
something that doesn’t deserve your allegiance with justification for
allegiance. And you see, you’re serving the god of sickness, which I pointed
out last week was *your belief* that you have a capacity to see something that
*doesn’t exist*, and then make a choice between “what *does* exist” and “what
*doesn’t* exist.” It is the belief that you have a capacity to choose between
gods.

Again.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you but see the little spark you will learn of the greater light, for the
rays are there unseen. Perceiving the spark will heal, but knowing the light
will create. Yet in the returning the little light must be acknowledged first,
for the separation was a descent from magnitude to littleness. But the spark is
still as pure as the great light because it is the remaining call of
creation. Put all your faith in it, and God Himself will answer you.  
</div> 

You have the capacity to put all your faith in it, because you have been
a great warrior fighting on the wrong side, fighting for the wrong thing. But
the strength is the Strength of the Christ brought to bear in stupid
directions. Now bring that same Strength that you have never stopped
exercising, bring it to bear on the Truth.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Put all your faith in it, &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip;let your capacity as a warrior to make full commitment come into play and
give your full allegiance to the Truth&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip;and God Himself will answer you.  
</div> 

Everything is *black and white*. Everything is either “yes” or “no.” Either there
is *existence*, or there is nonexistence. And all of you, I encourage all of you
to cease existing in “the neverland” between “what exists” and “what doesn’t
exist.” And stop *being* with each other from that place of nebulous *not knowing*;
in the world of “what ifs.” Become hot or cold, black or white.

Okay.

I invite everyone to just abide with what I have shared. Don’t engage in “what
ifs” about it. I was not having a casual social interaction with my friends.
I was *being the Answer* with my friends, uncovering the fact that my friends are
the Answer and know the Answer.

Okay.

I love you, and I look forward to being with you next week.

[^1]: T9.9 Magic vs Miracles

