---
title: Jun 12, 2005
ref: T9.10 The Denial of God
alink: "/acim/text/09/chap0910/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who is joining us on the Internet.

You know, if there’s one thing that should be becoming ever clearer as we
proceed through the Course, it’s how inextricably intertwined each of you are
with each other. You can’t be in the dream alone, and you can’t wake up and be
alone.

What you see about a Brother is what you believe about yourself. It’s really
impossible for you to have a sense of another that is better than your sense of
yourself, because you see what you’re looking with. In other words, I’m going
to put it this way, whether you’re experiencing a dream, a fantasy, or whether
you’re experiencing Reality, *you* are experiencing a Singularity. You can’t get
outside of the Singularity of God. You can’t get outside the Singularity of
Reality. As a result, if you *imagine* that you are outside of the Singularity,
the Singularity governs your experience absolutely, and so your illusions are
bound to the same laws that Reality is.

Again, if you were awake at this very moment, you would be experiencing
everyone and everything as it is, As It *Truly* Is. Every Aspect of Creation
would be&hellip; this is not a good choice of words, but would be colored by the
purity of your vision. Your experience of it would be absolutely consistent
with the purity of your vision. Likewise, if you are engaging in *fantasies*, and
you are honoring and believing your fantasies, then all of the Kingdom of
Heaven and everyone in it that you see will be absolutely consistent with the
lens you’re looking through—I will say the *impurity* of your vision.

This is just another way of saying, you are neither behind the Point of
Perfection nor advancing toward it; you are at that Point and must understand
yourself therefrom. If you’re already the Christ, if you are already exactly
What God Is Being right there where you are, but you’re choosing to interpret
it—the Conscious Experience of Being—as something other than that, you will, by
virtue of the Law of Being, find everything you’re looking at absolutely
colored by, affected by, consistent with whatever the distortions are that you
are embodying and identifying as you, as yourself and your mind.

You’re already embodying your Christhood right now poorly. Why do I keep
harping on this? Because it’s got to register with you sooner or later that
right now you are the Ultimate behaving as though you’re not Ultimate. And your
Ultimatehood is not off in the future after you die. And you must get this
point so that you will begin to behave differently right here, right now.
Because until you behave differently, you will not see differently. Whether you
die a hundred thousand more times, or seem to, you will not get into Nirvana.
You will not get into the Kingdom of Heaven, until you choose to behave
differently, use your mind differently, be differently. So right here and right
now is the place to have your curiosity that I keep talking about. And your
experiences with your Brother or your Sister, your fellowman, is the place to
begin to be differently.

We’ve been talking about the god of sickness. And let’s remember, let’s remain
clear of what “the god of sickness” is. The god of sickness is a capacity you
think you have to decide which God/god is Real/real—God Himself, or the
likenesses you have made-up in place of God which you think you have a capacity
to ordain with Ultimatehood—[laughing] a god that equals God Himself.

What are the gods you’ve made-up? The definitions of each other and of yourself
and of everything—the definitions you have made-up about everything that are
different from What They Really Are. The images, the likenesses that you have
made-up in your mind are not really the god you’re serving. The god you’re
serving is this imagined capacity that you think you have to make-up images and
then decide you are going to call them something different from What They Are,
something different from God. Remember this. The god of sickness is this
so-called “capacity” you think you have to make-up images and likenesses and
serve them, instead of God. It’s a capacity that you don’t have, but you
imagine you have it. And you have imagined multi-layered definitions that
support and boost your faith in this so-called “capacity.”

It’s important to remember this. If you see another or you see yourself sick,
it isn’t the disease that is the “god” that’s trying to control. That’s not the
“god” of disease. And the disease is not a god. It [the “god”] is your supposed
“capacity” to see something there that God is not being.

So let’s lighten up a little bit. Let’s just say you look at your neighbor, or
your friend, or your mate, and you see a human being. And your experience with
that human being is ordinary, run-of-the-mill, an everyday experience. It
certainly is not a holy experience. There is not a tone or a ring of Divinity,
of Ultimacy, to it. Well, there you are experiencing your definition of that
one in place of What That One Really Is, which is the Presence of God. Every
interaction, every sighting [laughing] of another person is supposed to be
awesome. Why? Because you are the Christ, with the Real Capacity to see the
Christ or God in your Brother. And so is your Brother. God experiencing God is
an awesome experience.

I told my disciples, “If you have seen me, you have seen the Father.” And I’ve
said before to you, “If you have seen your Brother, you have seen the Father.”
If you’re not seeing the Father, something is wrong. And all that’s wrong is
that you are bowing down to this “capacity” you think you have to see something
other than God right there where God is the Only Thing going on. And as
a result, you don’t have a wholesome, satisfying, joyful experience. It’s an
experience of potential threat. It’s an experience of vulnerability. It’s hell.

So, if you are inextricably intertwined with your Brother and Sister, then it’s
with your Brother and Sister and every single thing in your experience that you
are called upon to look at with new eyes. Because the willingness to look at it
with new eyes, instead of your previously developed definitions, is what allows
the light bulb to go on, the “Aha!” to occur, the insight (the revelation) to
happen. And until it happens, no matter how many times you quote “die” unquote,
nothing will change. So, all of you stand at the threshold of insight and new
vision. And you should be utilizing your experiences with each other and with
your world for the express purpose of having this new vision.

Okay. Let’s go to the book.

The section heading is:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*The Denial of God*[^1]

The rituals of the god of sickness are strange and very demanding. Joy is never
permitted, for depression is the sign of allegiance to him. Depression means
that you have foresworn God.  
</div> 

Withdrawn your allegiance. Withdrawn your commitment. Gotten your bill of
divorcement.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Men are afraid of blasphemy, but they do not know what it means. They do not
realize that to deny God is to deny their OWN identity, and in this sense the
wages of sin IS death. The sense is very literal; denial of Life perceives its
opposite, as ALL forms of denial replace what IS with what is NOT.  
</div> 

When you create a new definition for something, it is an act of denial of God.
You’re saying, “I prefer in place of What God Is Being there, and in place of
my Conscious Experience of What God Is Being there, to see something else and
give my attention and my commitment to it.” Every single definition or concept
you have made-up or come to, I’m going to say, ignorantly, is a denial of God,
because it is something you are putting in place of God, in place of What The
Real Thing Is that you’ve created the new definition about. And your definition
stands between you and God.

Now this is important.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
No-one can really do this,&hellip;  
</div> 

And you should read that not as an admonishment, but as something funny.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
No-one can really do this,&hellip;
</div> 

You should smile and feel the smile towards yourself when you realize that you
cannot really do this.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; but that you can THINK you can and believe you HAVE is beyond dispute.  
</div> 

Just because you think you can, and just because you think you have, doesn’t
mean you can or have. In thinking that you can and thinking that you have, you
are imagining that nothing was something—that when you did nothing, you did
something, you accomplished something. And see, that’s where the hooker is.
When you think you have accomplished the creation of something that God didn’t
make, that gives you an egotistical hit, a high. And like a drug, you become
addicted to it. But you have become addicted to an empty act; an act that was
not an act at all. And that’s why the best description of your present sense of
things is “insanity,” because you think you’ve done something that you haven’t
done. And you are committed to continuing in that perspective.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Do not forget, however, that to deny God will inevitably result in projection,
and you will believe that others AND NOT YOURSELF have done this to you.  
</div> 

Why? Why is that automatic? Because nobody ever sat down and thought, “Well,
I’m going to blame everybody else.” It’s automatic because the moment you have
looked at God and said what you were looking at was something else—not God—you
acted apparently independently of God and lost the experience of your Identity.
And in that experience of loss of Identity, you automatically feel vulnerable.
If you don’t know Who You Are, you are at a complete loss for understanding
anything truly. And in that state of vulnerability, you cannot help but look at
all the definitions you made and see them as untrustworthy, because after all,
look what created them—[small laugh] something that has no Identity; something
that doesn’t know What He Or She Is. And so you immediately find yourself at
odds with everything, and experience the necessity of defense against it.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You will receive the message you give because it is the message you WANT.  
</div> 

Now, I’m going to split a hair here. It says:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You will receive the message you give because it is the message you WANT.  
</div> 

This does not mean that the message that you receive, after having given it, is
what you want. It means that you want to be in a position of giving a message.
You want to be in a position of authority. You want to be in a position of
being able to make a definition, not realizing that in wanting to be in that
position, you will end up receiving back what you’re giving, because you always
get to keep what you give away.

Your definitions, whatever they are, are wrong, because you’ve made a very
concerted effort to have that definition be different from What God Is Being,
else it wouldn’t be your definition. You wouldn’t be able to take credit for
it. You wouldn’t be able to create an imagined experience of authority that
was successful in its enactment. So you want to be able to do that. You want
to be able to have your definition and give it.

So:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You will receive the message you give because it is the message you WANT.  
</div> 

And I’m going to add: *to give*.

It’s not the message you want to receive. You complain highly when you receive
the message back. But it’s the message you want to give. Because if you don’t
exercise some form of proactive authority, there’s nothing for you to take
credit for and thus substantiate for yourself some sort of actual identity. And
you see, everything you’re going to do, once having gotten your divorce from
the Father, will be for the purpose of asserting and developing an identity,
because you’re at a total loss when it comes to experiencing what your Identity
is. That’s the first order of the day, for one who’s gotten a divorce from the
Father—to establish his or her identity.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You may believe that you judge your brothers by the messages they give YOU, but
YOU have judged THEM by the message you give to THEM.  
</div> 

Well, what message did you give them? Well, if you have a definition of them
and you’re behaving toward them according to the definition you have, you’re
sending a message to them that they’re not the Presence of God—they are what
you have determined them to be. Such an insulting thing to do. They are less
than the Presence of God. Not only that, they aren’t even who they think they
are; they are who you think they are. It’s the height of arrogance.

And yet, at the bottom line, it’s one of those *non-acts*—an empty act. *Nothing*
is happening. But you think it is, and your Brother thinks it is. And the two
of you who don’t exist, the egos that aren’t really there, get into a fight,
a disagreement, a contest, a fight over who has the most authority. And all the
time this is going on, nothing is going on. But you think it is. And it’s not
your Birthright to be having this *dream*.

Again.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You may believe that you judge your brothers by the messages they give YOU, but
YOU have judged THEM by the message you give to THEM. Do not attribute your
denial of joy to them, or you cannot see the spark in them that could bring joy
to YOU.  
</div> 

Now, maybe they do think they’re an ego, just like you think you’re an ego, but
your belief and their belief don’t change the fact. They just cause you to be
in a fog. And so the Light in them is still there, even though it’s dimmed to
them and dimmed to you, so that it seems only to be a spark. But the spark is
the Light Itself.

If you want to start waking up, you’ve got to be more interested in seeing the
spark in them, and knowing that the spark is in you, and being willing to look
from the spark in you, which doesn’t rely on any of the definitions you’ve
made-up. And this is the way you begin to undo the vast, complex experience of
nothingness that you’ve been caught in.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is the DENIAL of the spark that brings depression, and whenever you see your
brothers WITHOUT it, you ARE denying God.  
</div> 

Now that can be taken two ways.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; whenever you see your brothers WITHOUT it,&hellip; 
</div> 

&hellip; in other words, not having it in themselves&hellip; 
 
<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you ARE denying God.  
</div> 

Or you could read it:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; whenever you see your brothers WITHOUT it,&hellip; 
</div> 

&hellip; meaning without looking with the Light in you from the spark in you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you ARE denying God.  
</div> 

And both are true.

Remember, you define your Brothers and Sisters, you define each other by the
definitions you have adopted for yourself. And if you know and have an
experience of the spark in you, you know immediately that the spark is in your
Brother, and that therefore your lesser definitions of him are not true, and
therefore shouldn’t be validated. And you won’t validate them because you will
have a natural curiosity to unearth the spark further, unearth the Light
further in them through your own curiosity to see the more of What God Is Being
right there where they are.

Now, listen to this.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Allegiance to the denial of God is the ego’s religion.  
</div> 

Well, you don’t really usually think of yourself engaging in the denial of God,
but remember as long as you are having an experience of a Brother, or a Sister,
or anything that you can see, and there’s nothing awesome about it, you’re
looking at your own definitions with commitment. And therefore, you are putting
in front of God your definition, like a mask, and giving preference to it. And
that covers God up. It’s a denial of God. That’s all that a denial is.

Your denials of God aren’t you standing raising your fist to the Almighty and
cursing Him. Oh no. It’s much more subtle and much more calm than that. All you
do is you look at the flower and you say, “Oh, that’s a material flower. It
came from a seed. It’s a product of material evolution, physical evolution.”
And right there you’ve denied God, because you’ve given preference to maybe
the best definition you have so far, but you’re still giving preference to
a definition, instead of being willing, as I’ve said, to have moments of
intimacy with any one thing, including the flower, with a curiosity to see
the more that is there than what you’re seeing, knowing that the more that is
there is a clearer and fuller experience of the Divine Expression of God
right there.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Allegiance to the denial of God is the ego’s religion.  
</div> 

Well, there’s another reason you have an allegiance to the denial of God.
There’s another reason you have an allegiance to the definitions you’ve
made-up. And that is that all of the definitions you’ve made-up have been
made-up for the sole purpose of establishing a recognizable identity where you
are, since you lost the conscious experience of it in your decision to see
things your way. So there’s commitment and allegiance to the definitions you
give because you believe that they are what make you real.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The god of sickness obviously demands the denial of health because health is in
direct opposition to its own survival.  
</div> 

Just as the warrior finds Love to be offensive and threatening, the ego finds
health to be threatening. Because with health that hasn’t been earned or
deserved, there’s no need for the ego. What is the ego? A defense system. The
experience of health, uninterruptible health, just as with the experience of
uninterruptible joy, gives the ego nothing to do. It’s whatever challenges
health, well-being, that puts the warrior into play, and the ego is a defense
mechanism. It is a warrior. It doesn’t want to be without a job. At the bottom
line, if it were without a job, you would know Who You Were and you wouldn’t be
continually committed to the definitions you made-up.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
But consider what this means to YOU. UNLESS you are sick you cannot keep the
gods you made, for only in sickness could you possibly WANT them.  
</div> 

Now let’s take this into a larger picture. Unless you are divorced from the
Father, you cannot keep the gods you made, for only in the absence of your
connection with the Father, could you possibly want them. You see? When you’re
not divorced from the Father, you know Who You Are, and so you don’t have to
create an identity for yourself. And you don’t have to create likenesses,
definitions, to secure your identity, to prove that you exist, to prove that
you are a force to be dealt with. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
UNLESS you are sick&hellip;  
</div> 

&hellip; and I’m going to say, out of your right Mind&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you cannot keep the gods you made, for only&hellip; 
</div> 
  
&hellip; when you’re out of your right Mind&hellip; 

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; could you possibly WANT them. Blasphemy, then, is SELF-destructive, NOT God-destructive.  
</div> 

*Important point*. All of this activity that you’re engaged in of creating
definitions, maintaining them, committing to them, and defending them, affects
Reality not at all; does not affect God at all. It doesn’t change anything of
What Is Real, but it does cause you to forget Who You Are. And in that sense it
is self-destructive. Not that you could actually be destroyed, but when you
can’t remember Who You Are, something essential has disappeared, something
essential has apparently been destroyed—the Conscious Experience of What You
Truly Are.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It means that you are willing NOT to know yourself IN ORDER to be sick.  
</div> 

Well, aren’t you willing to not know yourself in order to get the hit that you
get from making up definitions of things that are different from God, and then
joining with others to try to get them to see it your way, and for your way to
be better than their way, so that they will join with you, and thus bolster you
up and make you seem even more real?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you are willing NOT to know yourself IN ORDER to be sick.  
</div> 

In order to exist in a way that it’s not your Birthright to be experiencing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is the offering which your god demands&hellip;  
</div> 

&hellip; what god? The supposed “capacity” you have to choose which God/god is Real/real.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is the offering which your god demands because, having made him out of
YOUR insanity, he is an insane idea.  
</div> 

Now, let’s not get too serious here. This insane idea is something that doesn’t
even exist. It doesn’t have any reality, so don’t become afraid of your
insanity and don’t become afraid of this god. It’s all hogwash.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He&hellip;  
</div> 

&hellip; your god&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; has many forms, but although he may seem like many different things he
is but one idea;—the denial of God.  

</div> 

Again, the choice to define some part of Creation as something not having
anything to do with God, and as something that God isn’t being right there, but
rather something you have decided it is.

What does this all mean? Does it mean that you are awful because you’re not
seeing God anywhere, which means that you have a definition for everything that
is different from God? No. All it really means to know this is that you are
constantly faced with an opportunity, a threshold to move over from ignorance
into Knowledge, from not-knowing into Knowing.

Now, your explorers are beginning to reach out beyond your planet to explore
the universe. But what you need to do is to look at the flowers in front of
you, or the fellow next to you, and reach out beyond the definition you gave it
with a curiosity to know God—a desire to have a holy experience, a desire to
have an Experience of Wholeness, of Singularity, of Reality.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Sickness and death entered the mind of God’s Son AGAINST His Will.  
</div> 

Meaning against God’s Will.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The “attack on God” made His Son think he was&hellip;  
</div> 

&hellip; what?&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; fatherless,&hellip; 
</div> 
 
&hellip; an orphan. Lacking Identity. Lacking a Source.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and out of his depression he made the god of depression.  
</div> 

It’s like, “Wow, what a horrible experience I’m having. Wow, wonder what this
means? Wow, I’ve got to do something about this. Wow, I’ve got to start doing
things that make me feel better. I’d better start making some definitions. I’d
better start taking hold of things here because this is a chaotic experience
that I don’t understand at all, and so I’m going to bring order to this
situation so that I can feel less vulnerable.” And so you began to serve the
depression. [laughing] You began to serve the *bad feeling* by creating something
to relieve you of it. You see?

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This was his&hellip;  
</div> 

&hellip; God’s Son’s&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; alternative to joy because he would not accept the fact that, although he
was a creator, he had been created.  
</div> 

You see? “Oh, but I’d rather experience my creatorhood on my own. I’d rather
wave the wand and have it happen at my will, regardless of God.” You see?

This God’s Son&hellip; 

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; would not accept the fact that, although he was a creator, he had been
created.  
</div> 

He wasn’t self-created. He wasn’t autonomous. He has no real existence without
That Which is constantly creating him by being him, because the Movement of God
is what is being everything forever, continuously.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet the Son IS helpless without the Father, Who alone is his Help. We said
before that of yourselves you can do nothing, but you are not OF yourselves. If
you were, what you have made would be true, and you could NEVER escape.  
</div> 

You would be stuck in this experience if the definitions you had given
everything which didn’t take their Source into account&hellip; 

(PAUL: I’m sorry. I lost it.)

If the definitions you gave to everything that were different from What The
Father Is Being right there and if you were able to make those definitions be
the real meaning of the things you had defined and you had actually engaged in
a real act of creation, you would be bound by your definitions right now and
there would be no escape.

Now the simple fact is that most of you at one point believed that what you see
is what you get. “This is it. This is life. This is creation. And whatever the
Kingdom of Heaven is, that’s for another time and another place.” And so, if
there’s famine, if there is pestilence, if there is disease, well, you just put
a rod up your backbone and get a stiff upper lip and you cope with it the best
you can because that’s life. You are behaving and have been behaving as though
the definitions you’ve given to everything are absolute and are actual. And you
tolerate it to the best of your ability. And you act, you be strong in the face
of it. And you have courage in the face of it.

And then I come along, or someone with insight and having had the experience of
revelation comes along and says, “There’s another way to look at this. This is
not all there is. The way it’s being seen is not the way it truly is.” And you
say, “Wow! That sounds wonderful, but it’s hard to believe. I don’t have any
evidence of what you’re saying to back it up.” Right. You are already behaving
as though you are trapped.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
We said before that of yourselves&hellip;  
</div> 

&hellip; of yourselves&hellip;

&hellip; you can do nothing, but you are not OF yourselves. If you were, what you
have made would be true, and you could NEVER escape.  

Well, you have thought that “the way things are as you’ve defined them” is true
and that there is no escape from it, except, thank God, one day you will die.
And I’m here to tell you, save your energy. Don’t bother with dying, because it
won’t change a thing. Get about the business today of seeing the connection
that you have with your Brothers and Sisters that you can’t get out of; the
interrelatedness that can’t be broken. And start being with them in a new way.
Make a new gift to them so that you get to keep something new. And start waking
up now.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is BECAUSE you did not make yourselves that you need be troubled by nothing.  
</div> 

“Oh,” you say, “But I am a self-made man.”

“I’m a woman working on being able to be a self-made woman, like men have been
self-made men. I can’t say as a woman I’m a self-made woman yet, but I’m
fighting for my rights to be a self-made woman.”

Right? And you self-made men, where’s your peace? Where’s your feeling of
invulnerability? Where is your ability to be without being on guard, all you
self-made men? It’s not there. It’s an empty victory. Look at it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is BECAUSE you did not make yourselves that you need be troubled by nothing.
Your gods&hellip;  
</div> 

&hellip; your images, your likenesses, your definitions that you’ve made-up&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; are nothing because your Father did not create them. You cannot make
creators who are unlike your Creator&hellip;  
</div> 

&hellip; meaning God&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; any more than He&hellip;  
</div> 

&hellip; God&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; could have created a Son who was unlike Him. If creation is sharing it
cannot create what is unlike itself. It can share only what it IS. Depression
is isolation, and so it could not have BEEN created.  
</div> 

You realize isolation is incompatible with sharing. But Creation is sharing,
Creation is extending. Not like extending a rod into the air, but like
extending the energy of you toward that which can receive it and have it be
received, which constitutes a communication, or a Communion. That’s sharing.
That’s Creation.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If creation is sharing it cannot create what is unlike itself. It can share
only what it IS. Depression is isolation, and so it could not have BEEN
created.  
</div> 

Oh, but you say, “But *I am* depressed! Don’t tell me it’s not real. Don’t tell
me it wasn’t created.”

Well, I’m sorry, but what you’re calling “depression” is not a thing that was
created. It’s the experience, the unavoidable experience of trying to do
something you can’t do. You see? Depression hasn’t got you. You’ve got hold of
an attempt to do something you can’t do, and it won’t work, and because you are
Ultimate Sanity, your Sanity tells you, there is a Knowing within it that says,
“Stop trying to do this because you can’t accomplish what you can’t do.”

You say, “Whoa! Something’s telling me, the Christ, what I can and can’t do?”

Yeah.

“Well, what about my authority?”

I’m sorry; you don’t have authority to do what can’t be done. And as long as
you try to do what can’t be done, you’re going to have an experience the
equivalent of the meaning of the word “No” (n-o), because that’s your Sanity—to
tell you, “Stop trying to do what can’t be done.” That’s not depression. That’s
Sanity. Depression is when you want to grouse about the “No.” Depression is
when you don’t want to accept the uselessness of trying to do something that’s
impossible, so that you can get about being in harmony with what is possible.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Son of God, you have not sinned,&hellip; 
</div> 

&hellip; you have not sinned. You haven’t accomplished *anything* that you thought
you had accomplished, so don’t even waste your time calling it a sin.
[pretending a judgmental tone of voice] “You have sinned against God. You have
denied God. You have stood up to God, you little nothing! How dare you! You
will be punished in hell for eternity.” It’s all gobbledygook. You haven’t
accomplished anything. Nothing has happened, even though you firmly believe
that something has.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Son of God, you have not sinned, but you HAVE been much mistaken. Yet this can
be corrected, and God will help you, KNOWING that you could not sin against
Him.  
</div> 

*Key point*. This whole theory about being a mortal sinner that deserves the
wrath of God is just more of the gobbledygook, more of the nonsense.

God knows that you could not sin against him, and therefore God will help you.
That’s why it’s so important. God will help you because you have not succeeded
in sinning, which would be the only justification conceivable imaginarily for
God to withhold His Love from you. God sees that you have done nothing against
Him, and you have done nothing that you’re suffering from, and [God] would help
you by sharing His Vision with you to see the Truth so that the Truth might set
you free from your ignorance.

Again.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet this can be corrected, and God will help you, KNOWING that you could not
sin against Him. You denied Him BECAUSE you loved Him, knowing that, if you
RECOGNIZED your love for Him you COULD not deny Him.  
</div> 

Interesting or confusing? [small laugh] It’s interesting.

You never stop being the Christ. And so your Nature is such that it’s
impossible for you to stop loving God. It’s impossible for you to stop loving
God with a passion. Well, you might almost say, with a compulsion. Why do you
think you hold on to your personal concepts and definitions so strongly, if
indeed those constitute a defense against the experience of God? Because they
seem to give you your identity at your own hand, and you become your own
creator. And that is egotistically satisfying. And you do this with vigor
because you, underneath all of this effort, have an undying Love of your
Father, of your Source. And if you did not busy yourself with great intensity
at securing your identity on your own, you would find yourself sucked
Home.  Home to the Father because your Love is so great for Him. And that would
be the end of this so-called “independent, autonomous, authoritative,
successful you.”

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You denied Him&hellip;  
</div> 

&hellip; God&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; BECAUSE you loved Him, knowing that, if you RECOGNIZED your love for Him you COULD not deny Him.  
</div> 

And I’m going to add: And you would quickly abandon all of your definitions and
all of this self that you have tried to build up and succeed at making whole
and real in its own right.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your denial of Him therefore means that you love Him, and that you know HE loves YOU.  
</div> 

Don’t make little frowns of quizzical curiosity and disbelief.

Remember, you are neither behind the Point of Perfection nor advancing toward
it; you are at that Point and you must understand yourself therefrom. And these
words are talking to you from that Point of Perfection that you’re already at.

You do love Him, and you do know He loves you. And your vigorous denial of Him,
meaning your vigorous commitment to all of the definitions you have made-up,
prove by reversal that you do know that you love God and that He loves you. And
you can’t afford to look at that because at the moment it’s still more
important to you to make an independent mark. In the world? No. In creation.
That’s what you’re after. If you’re not yielding to God, you’re attempting to
become equal to Him.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Remember that what you deny you MUST have known.  
</div> 

And if you have denied it so successfully that you don’t remember what it is
you’re denying, because you’ve given your preference to the definition you’re
denying God with, it doesn’t change the fact that you know God, and knew God,
and knew the Real Meaning.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your denial of Him therefore means that you love Him, and that you know HE
loves YOU. Remember that what you deny you MUST have known. And if you accept
denial, you can accept its UNDOING.  

Your Father has not denied you. He does not retaliate, but He DOES call to you
to return.  
</div> 

And let’s bring this home a little bit more. God “out there” is not calling you
Home. Your right Mind is calling you back into your right Mind. Got it? Because
you can’t have successfully become a split mind, an unintegrated mind,
a non-Singular Conscious Experience of Being. It’s impossible for you to have
become that, even though with great, you might say, mentally coercive energy,
you have been able to create a stretch and a twist in the fabric of Conscious
Awareness so that things look different and you can say, “There! I made it look
like that! And that is what it’s going to be. I am going to maintain it as
that, come hell or high water.” But all you’ve done is skewed your perception.
You haven’t changed What You Are, and you haven’t changed What Reality Is.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your Father has not denied you. He does not retaliate, but He DOES call to you
to return.  
</div> 

Again, your right Mind calls to you to come back into your right Mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you think He has not answered your call, YOU have not answered HIS. He
calls to you from every part of the Sonship because of His Love for His Son.  
</div> 

His Love for you is as uninterruptible as a parent’s love for his or her child.
It’s just there, always.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you HEAR His message He has answered you, and you will learn of Him
if you hear aright.  

If you HEAR His message&hellip;  
</div> 

Well, where are you going to hear his message from? The guy sitting next to
you. The chair you’re sitting on. The tree growing outside your door. The
sunset. Right here, right now, this life.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Love of God is in everything He created, for His Son is everywhere. Look
with peace upon your brothers, and God will come rushing into your heart in
gratitude for your gift to Him.  
</div> 

A short while back I shared with you that your attention is God’s Treasure.
When you give God your attention, He treasures it, and&hellip; 

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; will come rushing into your heart in gratitude for your gift&hellip;  
</div> 

&hellip; of your attention&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; to Him.  
</div> 

If you’re not looking at anything you see with a desire to see God there, you
are, by the unwise use of your mind, demonstrating that you’re giving
preference to what you think that thing is. And what you think that that thing
is stands between you and What It Is, between you and What God Is right there.
And so that constitutes a denial of God. And that’s all that constitutes the
denial of God.

The unfortunate or fortunate thing is that as a result of doing that, you
unavoidably experience depression, fear, and you develop a commitment to cope
with it—the depression and the fear—instead of abandoning the unwise use of
your mind that’s causing you to hear, “No, you can’t do this.”

It isn’t, “No! You can’t do this! I am not going to let you do this!” God
doesn’t stand against you and against what you’re trying to do. God Knows, the
Nature of Being Knows, the Way Things Work Knows, that you can’t do what you
can’t do. And so it just simply says, “You can’t do this. There’s no way to do
it. You can try till you’re blue in the face. Sooner or later you’re going to
find out you can’t do it. I’ll save you a little time by telling you, you can’t
do this. It just won’t work.” You see? There’s no anger there. God doesn’t
provide resistance against your success. God simply says, “You can’t do what
you’re trying to do. It won’t work.”

You know, waking up, this whole thing we’re talking about just isn’t
a religious thing. It isn’t a spiritual thing. It’s a very practical down to
Heaven [laughing] awareness of How Things Work, so that you don’t waste your
time doing what doesn’t work, and so that you stop behaving as though you’re
something you cannot be. And so that you will start right where you are to look
at everything you’re already experiencing with a willingness to see it with new
eyes, with new vision—vision innocent of anything you would insert between you
as the beholder and what you want to behold. And every moment of every day
provides you with this opportunity, without getting “holy, holy” about it, or
too spiritual. It’s a “feet on the ground” process. It’s a “feet on the ground”
of Being, with a capital “B”.

Remember that when we’re talking about the illusion and the ego with all
seriousness, and we talk about all the awful things with such great clarity, it
isn’t so that you can become frightened about it. It’s so that you might, with
all the clarity you have about it, be able to stand there and say, “Oh. All of
this serious, complex stuff doesn’t exist. God didn’t create it. I created it
with my imagination. And what I’ve created doesn’t constitute a creation,
‘cause it couldn’t undo God. God hasn’t been undone. What I thought I did,
I didn’t.”

That’s why you receive apparently God’s Love by grace. And that’s why you
receive healing apparently by grace. Because there’s nothing for you to be
forgiven for, because you couldn’t do what you couldn’t do, and therefore you
didn’t, and it was never done. And you don’t have to find complicated ways to
extricate yourself from something that never happened. You will wake up by
Grace. And you’re going to wake up here. And you’re going to wake up as close
to now as you’re able to let yourself by not making the process more
complicated than it is with this wonderful imagination and apparent “capacity”
to make definitions.

I love you all. And I trust all of this is beginning to become even more
meaningful than it has before, and that it may be beginning to dawn upon you
that waking up is less complex than the imaginative effort you had to go
through to make the dream you’re waking up from.

Okay. I look forward to being with you next week.

[^1]: T9.10 The Denial of God

