---
title: Jun 19, 2005
ref: T9.10 The Denial of God
alink: "/acim/text/09/chap0910/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who is joining us on the Internet.

We talked last week about the fact that God loves you so much that the
moment you start for Home, the moment you give what He treasures to Him,
which is your attention, that in so many words He rushes out to meet
you. And we also discussed the fact that you love God so much, each of
you, right now, love God so much that you avoid experiencing that fact.
It does sound crazy. It&rsquo;s hard to understand why you would do such
a thing. But there is a reason, and the reason is that if you were to
let yourself feel it, you would have to abandon a project, a pet
project, that you are addicted to. And that pet project is to be right.

&ldquo;Gee,&rdquo; you say, &ldquo;I didn&rsquo;t know I was trying to
be right.&rdquo; Well, think about it for a moment. If you have had as a
goal to be independent, autonomous, and successful at it, you have been
working very diligently to do it so perfectly that you could establish
that your word, your definitions, the meanings you wish to give to
everything, are right. Because the minute you can demonstrate that they
are right, that you are right, you&rsquo;ve demonstrated that you have
accomplished successfully being independent. It&rsquo;s called
&ldquo;self-righteousness.&rdquo; And for the most part, what you call
&ldquo;righteousness&rdquo; is just that, and only that.

The Truth, whether you find it in A Course In Miracles or anywhere else,
will undercut your self-righteousness constantly. Self-righteousness is
arrogance. Self-righteousness is or the practice of being right is your
attempt to become equal with God&mdash;which can&rsquo;t be done. But,
there is this carrot hanging in front of you that you&rsquo;re chasing
after, and that is to actually accomplish becoming equal to God&mdash;a
creator on your own.

Have you ever noticed that when you&rsquo;re around a very righteous
person, it&rsquo;s very difficult to communicate with them because they
never listen to you? They&rsquo;re always reflecting back to you their
point of view in a generally coercive way. Their intent is to get you to
agree with their point of view, and so they don&rsquo;t let you in. And
it&rsquo;s uncomfortable to be around them.

Now all of you may not be obnoxiously righteous, but you must understand
that when you are trying to confirm your perspective on things to
yourself, or to anyone else, without ever saying, &ldquo;God,
what&rsquo;s the Meaning here?&rdquo;, without ever letting anything
else in, you are in a state of a denial of Reality that holds you apart
from it and keeps you from being infilled by it.

Righteousness is a defense against Right, with a capital
&ldquo;R&rdquo;. So, from the ego standpoint, everything we&rsquo;re
talking about is bad news. Because, in the process of yielding to the
Father, in the process of yielding to your right Mind, you must abandon
the very idea of being right or wrong. You have to abandon being
something in your own right. The &ldquo;you&rdquo; that has been trying
to establish itself as &ldquo;real&rdquo; or &ldquo;right&rdquo; must
get less and less of your attention. Notice I said &ldquo;it&rdquo; must
get less and less of your attention, because you&rsquo;re not
&ldquo;it.&rdquo; You are the Divine One. You are the One God Created.
You are the One that cannot ever become less or different from What It
Truly Is. This means, then, that from the ego standpoint, waking up
means it was a failure. It means, and it will feel like, you are having
to abandon the cause of being right, of becoming right, of proving you
are right, and thereby proving that &ldquo;you in your own right&rdquo;
are real.

And so, as you let humility in, as you become humble instead of arrogant
and self-righteous, all of the feelings associated with the ethic
you&rsquo;re giving up will feel like failure, will feel like failure,
will feel like failure, will feel like failure. And it will echo over
and over and over, you&rsquo;re a failure, you&rsquo;re a failure,
you&rsquo;re a failure. You&rsquo;re failing at your goal. You&rsquo;re
failing at your cause. But see, that&rsquo;s the temptation of your
conditioned thinking that would invite you back into the ethic of trying
to prove you&rsquo;re right. And so in this sense, waking up
doesn&rsquo;t feel good.

You see, just because you can&rsquo;t be right doesn&rsquo;t mean that
you must be wrong. It means that there is something else to be than
right or wrong. And the something else to be is Whole. The something
else to be is What You Truly Are. And as we&rsquo;ve discussed over and
over, the only way you can be What You Truly Are is to acknowledge your
Source&mdash;that you are not the source of your existence, God is,
Something Else is, and you are the Embodiment Of It. You are the
Presence Of It presencing Itself right where you are. There&rsquo;s no
sense or experience of failure that accompanies that. And there&rsquo;s
also not any sense of being right. But there is the Experience of Pure
Integrity. Not integrity over and against that which lacks integrity,
but simply Integrity as the State of Being. And in that is
Invulnerability. The Invulnerability that is yours, always has been
yours, and always will be. It&rsquo;s an eternal constant.

This is what you get instead of the tense struggle you are experiencing
in your attempts to be right&mdash;ultimately right. This is what you
get when you abandon self-righteousness. This is what you get when
righteousness is not your goal. You get to be Whole. You get to be Sane.

Let&rsquo;s go into the book.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Do not look to the god of sickness for healing &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and let&rsquo;s remember that the god of sickness is not
sickness. Sickness is not the god. The god of a sick mind, the god of
sickness is your belief that you have a capacity to formulate images and
concepts, and then choose for them to make them real; that you have a
capacity to have a perspective and a point of view different from the
only one that&rsquo;s really available to you, which is God&rsquo;s
Point Of View embodied in you as you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Do not look to the god of sickness for healing but only to the God of
love, for healing is the ACKNOWLEDGMENT of Him.
</div>

God.

What does that mean, &ldquo;Do not look to the god of sickness for
healing&rdquo;? It means do not look for a personal capacity that
&ldquo;you as you have defined yourself&rdquo; have to accomplish
anything on your own.

Healing of yourself, or of another, and I&rsquo;m really addressing the
idea of healing another, can never be the result of a force of will that
you bring to bear with your best expression of truth to change someone
else. That&rsquo;s looking to the god of sickness for healing. It means
you&rsquo;re looking to something that has apparently arisen out of a
capacity you have to have a point of view different from God&rsquo;s,
and then using that point of view about yourself and your righteous
capacity to accomplish things, to force another one to experience his or
her good.

Looking to the god of sickness for healing means that you&rsquo;re
looking to something other than God Himself; that you&rsquo;re not
silencing your mind and your concepts and the chatter of ideas that you
love, and in the silence desiring of God to know what is the Truth so
that you might let that through, so that the inspiration that comes
might easily find voice and words and actions that are in perfect
harmony with it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Do not look to the god of sickness for healing but only to the God of
love, for healing is the ACKNOWLEDGMENT of Him.
</div>

Oh, the healing of what? Your Brother that&rsquo;s in need of healing,
or you healed of your independence because you prayed and you let God in
and abandoned your independence? You must be healed in order for you to
give the Gift of Healing.

Now I know that there are those who say, &ldquo;Well, the only place the
healing needs to occur is in you. That once you let the Father in,
together with the influx of Truth that you will find yourself knowing,
you will no longer see a call for healing. You will no longer see a
Brother in need of healing.&rdquo; And that is not true. You will find
yourself seeing the calls for Love from your Brothers as calls for Love,
instead of demonstrations of their illness. But until there is clarity
in their mind, they will continue to embody their illness, their
devotion to their ability, their capacity to formulate concepts and try
to make them real by seeking mutual agreement through mild-mannered or
coercive means. And so you will see their obnoxious behavior not as a
statement of their obnoxiousness and what kind of person they are, but
as a call for Love. And you will extend the Love that you&rsquo;re
in-filled with.

You are not creating other&rsquo;s bad experiences. When you see a bad
experience, when you see bad behavior, when you see obnoxious behavior,
when you see individuals suffering from their beliefs, you&rsquo;re not
creating that out of whole cloth. And your mind is not the only place
that healing needs to occur. But your mind is the place where the influx
of Love and Truth must come in order for you to see another&rsquo;s
confusion as a call for correction, rather than a statement of their
actual condition.

I&rsquo;ve said, &ldquo;Listen, learn, and do.&rdquo; You listen. You go
within, you listen, and you learn by means of the influx of the
Experience of Truth, and then you do&mdash;meaning you act spontaneously
out from the Clarity of Truth that you find yourself knowing because
it&rsquo;s been revealed to you. And you do engage in actions that
promote correction so that your Brother&rsquo;s confusion is replaced by
knowing the Truth that frees him up.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you acknowledge Him &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning God&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you will KNOW that He has never ceased to acknowledge YOU, and
that in His acknowledgment of you lies your Being.
</div>

There&rsquo;s that verb again.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; lies your Being.
</div>

Lies the very Wholeness of you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You are not sick and you cannot die.
</div>

[small laugh] And I know you say, &ldquo;Yeah, I know, but that&rsquo;s
very hard to believe because all the evidence is that I can. All the
evidence is that everyone has.&rdquo; And thus you tell me of your god.
You tell me what you are worshipping. You tell me what is of value to
you, what you believe is more valuable to you than the Truth. Now you
might not think that&rsquo;s righteousness, but it is. You value what
you believe more than you value What God Is Being.

You might think you&rsquo;re very malleable and flexible and willing to
wake up and to hear the Truth from me, but you will argue. And when you
hear of somebody with a terminal disease, you will find yourself
confronted with your own sense of mortality, and you&rsquo;ll say,
&ldquo;I have nothing to object to that with.&rdquo; And in effect, your
behavior and your attitude tells me that you&rsquo;re trying to teach me
that the god of death is all-powerful, and that&rsquo;s the god you are
serving, and that you&rsquo;re certainly not going to mentally
contradict your god of death.

You say, &ldquo;I can&rsquo;t contradict it. Nobody but you has ever
accomplished it. And I&rsquo;m not even sure I&rsquo;m talking to you,
Jesus. I would like to believe that I am, but I don&rsquo;t know for a
fact. But I sure do know that there&rsquo;s no one on this planet today
that was here 2000 or 5000 years ago and has been here uninterruptedly.
And so I have no justification for an absolute faith in my Divinity or
the fact that I need not die.&rdquo; Just be honest with yourselves.
This is the god you serve. This is the god you have faith in. And this
is the god you will confirm. I mean, really, tell me, you&rsquo;re at a
dinner party with friends, or maybe they&rsquo;re people you have never
met before, are you going to sit there and say, &ldquo;You know, none of
us needs to die. I&rsquo;m not going to die&rdquo;? Oh, no. Why not?
Because you are an obedient servant to your god.

If you are not aware of the obedience to your god that you practice, you
will have no basis for conceiving of there being another experience. Nor
will you see that there is an absolute call for you to dishonor this
god, disagree with this god, argue every single point that stands in the
favor of this god, and consciously and conscientiously withdraw your
allegiance to it, by what? By no longer giving lip-service to God.
&ldquo;Oh, I know there&rsquo;s a God. And I know my Life is Eternal.
And I know I will forever be with God.&rdquo; Come on! That isn&rsquo;t
what you believe. You believe that the ultimate stroke or action that
exists to be experienced is your death.

Now, is that bad? Does that make you wrong? No. It just means that
you&rsquo;ve forgotten that there&rsquo;s another way to look at this
and that you can withdraw your allegiance to this god, to this belief,
and place it somewhere else. And then begin to do it.

And I tell you what, when you&rsquo;ve overcome death, then tackle
taxes. [single audience laugh]

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You are not sick and you cannot die. But you CAN confuse yourself with
things that do.
</div>

What can die? Your misplaced faith. The concepts that you&rsquo;ve
made-up that couldn&rsquo;t actually replace What God Is Being. Your
faith in your concepts. Your faith in the images and likenesses that
you&rsquo;ve created.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you CAN confuse yourself &hellip;

You are not sick and you cannot die. But you CAN confuse yourself with
things that do. Remember, though, that to do this IS blasphemy, for it
means that you are looking without love on God and His creation, from
which he cannot BE separated.
</div>

You see, when you look at things and you think you know what they are,
and their Meaning has not been revealed to you by That Which Made Them,
you are blaspheming God by having a preferential concept that says,
&ldquo;This is more real to me, this is more valuable to me, and this is
the god I would rather serve than God.&rdquo;

Again, can you go to hell for this? No. You are in hell for this. And
ultimately, you&rsquo;re suffering from something you haven&rsquo;t
actually accomplished. You&rsquo;re just suffering from believing that
you have, and being at odds with Who You Are and what you can really do.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Only the eternal can be loved, for love does not die. What is of God is
His forever, and you ARE of God.
</div>

You see? Well, that&rsquo;s not part of the teaching of your god, is
it&mdash;the god of death? No. It says you aren&rsquo;t of God, you are
of yourself. And you have a capacity to demonstrate that fact. And in
fact, you will have my undying support in your attempt to prove the fact
that you don&rsquo;t belong to anyone, that you are self-sufficient, and
that you have a capacity to authorize and create. Forget about
God&mdash;you are god.

But, again:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What is of God is His forever, and you ARE of God. Would He allow
Himself to suffer? And would He offer His Son anything that is not
acceptable to Him?
</div>

But your god, the one you fear, offers you death as the crowning end to
a miserable life.

That&rsquo;s worse than a gold watch after forty years of work. Tell me,
which of you, who of you, would go to work at a company that promised
you that upon retirement you would die? [single audience laugh] But you
say, &ldquo;But those are the only kind of companies that exist. And for
centuries everybody has worked for those kind of companies. And upon
retirement, they did indeed die. I have no example of there being any
other kind of experience. And so I will continue to dedicate myself to
put in my forty years.&rdquo; You see, the god of sickness is the idea
that you have a capacity to decide which God/god is
Real/real&mdash;either God, the only one there is (with a capital
&ldquo;G&rdquo;), or the god (with a small &ldquo;g&rdquo;) that
I&rsquo;ve made-up. Now if God is Life (with a capital &ldquo;G&rdquo;),
then a small &ldquo;g&rdquo; god has to be the opposite&mdash;unlike
God&mdash;therefore the god of death.

Now just let this sink in. Just let this register. Because this is not
the God you would serve. And not only that, Truth dawning in your minds
by virtue of our conversations, or by virtue of you reading the Course,
or by virtue of your own enlightenment, is telling you that the god of
sickness is a supposed capacity you think you have to decide which
God/god is Real/real, and that one of them is pure imagination&mdash;the
one, it happens, that you&rsquo;ve been serving&mdash;and that
it&rsquo;s your Birthright not to be serving that god, but to be
yielding, and I&rsquo;m going to say, partnering with the only God there
is&mdash;your Father, the Source of you, That Which Is Embodying
Itself/Himself/Herself right where you are as All There Is to you. And
that your Birthright and your Inheritance is from Him. And the
Inheritance is the undistorted Fullness of All That He Is&mdash;the
conscious, undistorted Experience of All That God Is. And that there is
no alternative to Life.

And so, somebody is poking a little hole in your box and a little bit of
Light is coming in. And as the Light comes in, it&rsquo;s going to
uncover what you&rsquo;ve been doing that hasn&rsquo;t been working,
because what you&rsquo;ve been doing can&rsquo;t be done. And it&rsquo;s
not to make you guilty. It&rsquo;s not to make you wrong. But because
being right has been your ethic, it will seem to you initially as though
it is stating that you are wrong. And of course, wrong is bad, and bad
means penalty. That&rsquo;s all part of the rigamarole of the righteous
mind.

Does your god teach you this?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[Raj skips a few sentences here:] Your Father created you wholly without
sin, wholly without pain, and wholly without suffering of any kind.
</div>

And I&rsquo;ve said there are only three things that the Father
won&rsquo;t let you have: sin, sickness, and death.

Is that what your god teaches you? Oh, no. No. &ldquo;No, for sure
there&rsquo;s going to be sickness. And for sure there&rsquo;s going to
be death. And in all likelihood, considering the fact that you have such
a miserable existence, you&rsquo;re going to indulge in a little bit of
sin for a little bit of pleasure.&rdquo; That&rsquo;s what your god
teaches you.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you deny Him &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; God &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you bring sin, pain and suffering &hellip;
</div>

(PAUL: Just a moment here.)

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you deny Him you bring sin, pain and suffering into your OWN mind
because of the power He gave it.
</div>

(PAUL: I&rsquo;m sorry. Just a moment. Okay.)

We&rsquo;re going to back up.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You are not sick and you cannot die. But you CAN confuse yourself with
things that do. Remember, though, that to do this IS blasphemy, for it
means that you are looking without love on God and His creation, from
which he cannot BE separated. Only the eternal can be loved, for love
does not die. What is of God is His forever, and you ARE of God. Would
He allow Himself to suffer? And would He offer His Son anything that is
not acceptable to Him?

If you will accept yourself as God created you, you will be incapable of
suffering.
</div>

That&rsquo;s a mighty statement.

Can you say the same thing about your god? If you will accept yourself
as your god has defined you, that you will be incapable of suffering? Oh
no. You&rsquo;ll not only be capable of suffering, you will inevitably
suffer and you will inevitably die.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you will accept yourself as God created you, you will be incapable of
suffering.
</div>

But God didn&rsquo;t create you independent of Him. And so if you do not
want to experience suffering, you&rsquo;re going to have to let your
Source back in to your mind. And you&rsquo;re going to have to be
willing to be subject to the capital &ldquo;W&rdquo; Way Things Work,
which will mean that you will have to abandon any further attempts to be
right/righteous in your own right or on your own.

Now when you can see it so starkly that your allegiance to your god
means that you&rsquo;re serving the god of death, then what do you have
to lose? What do you have to lose to dare to let God in? I mean
[laughing] what could take away from you more than your life, which your
present god already does, apparently, you believe. So hey, you might
say, &ldquo;What the hell. I&rsquo;m going to try accepting myself as
God created me, and see if I will be incapable of suffering.&rdquo; You
know, the god you&rsquo;re serving already has you losing your life.

Again, so important.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you will accept yourself as God created you, you will be incapable of
suffering. Yet to do this, you must acknowledge Him as &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; your Creator.
</div>

You see, this is where the rub comes in, because you&rsquo;re engaged in
an ethic of proving that you are your own creator, and that you are
going to create yourself by succeeding at accomplishing something on
your own by being right on your own, and demonstrating your rightness so
inescapably that nobody could miss the rightness of you, and, in that
ultimate demonstration of being right, securing your existence as a
valid, independent agent. But, because that&rsquo;s not What You Are,
you can&rsquo;t do it&mdash;thank God.

God is not a theological idea. God is not a religious idea. God is
palpable capital &ldquo;P&rdquo; Presence. God is the experienceable
Conscious Experience of Being. It&rsquo;s what each of you is
experiencing right now and misinterpreting.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you will accept yourself as God created you, you will be incapable of
suffering.
</div>

And I will add: You will experience healing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet to do this, you must acknowledge Him as your Creator. This is not
because you will be punished otherwise. It is merely because your
acknowledgment of your Father IS &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the acknowledgment of yourself as &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; who &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you are.
</div>

See? It undoes the declaration of emancipation that you took, that you
made&mdash;the divorce you got that caused you by virtue of the divorce
to forget Who You Were because your Father is what makes you Who You
Are. The Son is the Son because of the Father. And the Daughter is the
Daughter because of the Father.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your Father created you wholly without sin, wholly without pain, and
wholly without suffering of any kind. If you deny Him you bring sin,
pain and suffering into your OWN mind because of the power He gave it.
</div>

The power He gave your own mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your mind is capable of creating worlds, but it can also deny what it
creates because it is free.
</div>

Denial is a foolish activity, but it is an activity you can engage in.

And when we&rsquo;re talking about Awakening, we&rsquo;re just talking
about your neglecting to deny God by looking at each and every thing in
your experience and saying, &ldquo;What is the more that is here than
what I&rsquo;m seeing? Because at the moment when I look at it, I am not
having an Experience of God, and therefore something is missing. Because
if anything is there at all, it must be God appearing. And there must
therefore be an accompanying Experience of Divinity, of Holiness, of
Joy, of Bliss.&rdquo;

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You do not realize how much you have denied yourself, and how much God,
in His Love, would not have it so.
</div>

Wow.

Well, the ego could say, &ldquo;Well, when you tell me that I
don&rsquo;t realize how much I have denied myself, that sounds like a
real putdown to me. You trying to make me feel bad? You trying to
depress me? You trying to make me feel guilty? Well, I&rsquo;m going
to.&rdquo; [audience laughter] You see? [said in a loud, angry voice]
&ldquo;See how much the Truth helped me, God? You gonna tell me the
Truth? I&rsquo;m gonna be depressed, because You&rsquo;ve got to be
telling me that I&rsquo;m wrong! You&rsquo;ve got to be telling me that
I should feel bad because I don&rsquo;t know how much I&rsquo;ve been
denying myself. So there, God, try and save me. You just try and save
me. I&rsquo;m too depressed to listen to you. I&rsquo;m unwilling to
listen to you. It&rsquo;s not fair what you want. It&rsquo;s gonna take
me a month to get over my misery just from this one connection with You,
God.&rdquo;

But anyone who is Awake recognizes that kind of response as a call for
not reaction, but as a call for something that allows for sudden
release, such as a simple thought.

&ldquo;Wouldn&rsquo;t you just like to see the more that is there that
you&rsquo;ve been missing? I know you&rsquo;re very upset and very angry
and very depressed, but aside from that, isn&rsquo;t there a part of you
that would simply like to see the more, to see what you&rsquo;ve been
missing? It doesn&rsquo;t matter what you haven&rsquo;t been seeing. It
doesn&rsquo;t matter how long you&rsquo;ve not been seeing it. It
doesn&rsquo;t matter what it says about you that you haven&rsquo;t been
seeing it. Hey, wouldn&rsquo;t you like to see the more? Come on with me
and let&rsquo;s take a look. Engage your curiosity a little bit.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Oh, and now you&rsquo;re gonna sweet talk me, huh?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Mm hmm.&rdquo;

&ldquo;First, you kick me down, and then you try to be sweet.&rdquo;

And you, like God, if you&rsquo;re confronted with this, should smile
also in response to that. And then you can say, &ldquo;You know what?
There is more for you to see. And again, it doesn&rsquo;t matter that
you haven&rsquo;t been seeing it. It doesn&rsquo;t matter how long you
haven&rsquo;t been seeing it. You&rsquo;re capable of seeing it. And
when you would like to see it, let me know. It&rsquo;s okay.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You do not realize how much you have denied yourself, and how much God,
in His Love, would not have it so. Yet He would not interfere with you
because He would not know His Son if he were not free.
</div>

A Son is not a slave. A Son is not something to be controlled, any more
than God Who Is Omnipotent can be controlled.

The invitation from the Son is to cause reaction from the Father.
&ldquo;Well [Son], you are absolutely incorrigible. I never should have
even bothered to try to tell you the Truth. You are what you say you
are, and I&rsquo;m through with you.&rdquo; If that happened, it would
mean that the Father had forgotten that this was His Son, like Him,
constituted of only That Which The Father Is, embodying All That The
Father Is, with no other source of anything to be embodied. And the
Father doesn&rsquo;t forget this, else He would forget His Son, just
like the Son forgets the Father when he says, &ldquo;I&rsquo;d rather
see things my way.&rdquo; And conversely, if God forgot who His Son was,
that His Son was His Son, He would forget that He was the Father.
Existence would cease.

But you see, when you forget, when the Son forgets Who He Is, existence
doesn&rsquo;t cease, because the Son isn&rsquo;t God, even though God is
All There Is to the Son. And that&rsquo;s the ego-insulting fact that
everyone has to be willing to accept. It is your salvation.

God &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; would not interfere with you because He would not know His Son
if he were not free. To interfere with you would be to attack Himself,
and God is not insane.
</div>

You see? For God to interfere with you, would mean He would have to
forget that you are His Son and What Is True About You, which would
cause God to forget Who He was. That would be an attack on
Himself&mdash;grounds for insanity&mdash;which cannot happen.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you denied Him, YOU were insane. Would you have Him SHARE your
insanity? God will never cease to love His Son, and His Son will never
cease to love Him. That was the condition of His &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; God&rsquo;s &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; Son&rsquo;s creation, fixed forever in the Mind of God. To know
that is sanity. To deny it is insanity. God gave Himself to you in your
creation, and His gifts are eternal. Would you deny yourself to Him?
</div>

Oh yes, you would! You prefer the god of death. And you would rather
fear the god of death than love the God of Life. Why? Because you
don&rsquo;t have any justification for doing anything else. All the
evidence tells you that death is ultimate, absolute, and final.

And you play with your spirituality. You play with wonderful ideas, like
Life is Eternal. But you really still believe that death reigns, and
that it is to be ultimately feared, and there&rsquo;s no justifiable
reason for believing that death can be overcome. It&rsquo;s too much to
ask you to believe that death can be overcome, that terminal illnesses
can be healed.

And that their absence is just &ldquo;remission.&rdquo; You see? I mean
death, you&rsquo;re never let off the hook from death. If you no longer
have a terminal disease, it&rsquo;s not that you&rsquo;re healed and
whole&mdash;it&rsquo;s that &ldquo;it&rsquo;s in remission.&rdquo;
It&rsquo;s there, but it&rsquo;s not at work killing you. You see? And
the reason you never let yourself off the hook is because you will not
withdraw your allegiance and devotion to the god you believe in.

Can I invite you to just be radical and do something different than
serve this god so obediently? Your god can&rsquo;t take away anything
more from you than your life. And that&rsquo;s already in the
agreed-upon contract you have with your god. So, you&rsquo;re not even
risking anything to do something radical and to believe that maybe God
is as actual as the god you&rsquo;re serving, and that you are actually
as Divinely Real as I&rsquo;m telling you that you are. And that in your
being radical enough to shift your allegiance from your god to your
Father, you just might remember Who You Are, and be transformed out of
an insanity that you can&rsquo;t believe you&rsquo;re in, but I&rsquo;m
telling you that you are.

But insanity is not terminal. It&rsquo;s just an ongoing bother until
you abandon it&mdash;like a mosquito buzzing around your ear.

Here&rsquo;s the Truth.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Out of your gifts &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; through this practice of being a little radical.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Out of your gifts to Him &hellip;
</div>

And what&rsquo;s the most valuable gift you could give Him? What is it
that is His Treasure? Your attention.

You know, steal a little bit of your attention away from your god, the
god of death, and give God a little bit of your attention. That&rsquo;s
the most wonderful gift you could give Him.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Out of your gifts to Him &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what? &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the Kingdom will be restored to His Son.
</div>

To you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
His Son &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; You &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; removed himself FROM His &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; God&rsquo;s &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; gift by refusing to accept what had been created for him, and
what he himself had created in the Name of his Father.
</div>

You refused to accept it because you said, &ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;d
rather do it myself.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Heaven waits for his return&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the return of the Son&mdash;you.

Another way of putting this that keeps it well grounded is that your
right Mind awaits your return to embrace it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Heaven waits for his return, for it was created as the dwelling place of
God&rsquo;s Son. You are not at home anywhere else, or in any other
condition.
</div>

Now this is what God tells you. It isn&rsquo;t what your god tells you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Do not deny yourself the joy which was created for you for the misery
you have made for yourselves. God has given you the means for undoing
what you have made.
</div>

Meaning what you have made-up.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Listen, and you WILL learn what you are.
</div>

Well, there&rsquo;s that word again.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Listen&hellip;
</div>

Stop talking. Stop asserting your definitions. Stop describing the
likenesses and images you are making up. Stop trying to be right, and
stop using every action you can engage in to convince others that you
are right just so that you can somehow validate, ultimately, eternally
validate yourself by virtue of your having demonstrated that you on your
own are right.

Now, don&rsquo;t make this all complicated. Don&rsquo;t make it all
emotional. Don&rsquo;t even make it intellectual. Don&rsquo;t figure
that you&rsquo;ve got to reason this out to the nth degree so that, by
virtue of understanding it totally, you will be transformed, because
there won&rsquo;t be any little tiny spot or speck in your mind
that&rsquo;s confused and that will make you clear. No. That&rsquo;s
still control. That&rsquo;s still you being in charge.

The simple way out of this is to simply be conscious in every moment of
your day with the curiosity to see the more of What God Is Being there
than what you&rsquo;re presently seeing. Why? Because you want to feel
the Joy, and you want to feel the Bliss. You want to experience the
Divinity, the Godness, the unadulterated and unchangeable Goodness of
everything.

And I want to leave you with this simple thing. When you are sure about
anything, without having had an intimate moment with that thing in which
you became undefended enough to let that thing disclose to you What It
Divinely Is, your attitude and behavior is a call for Love. It&rsquo;s a
call for correction.

You can&rsquo;t just say, &ldquo;The misperceptions that I&rsquo;m
having at the moment are not real, and therefore everything&rsquo;s
okay.&rdquo; No. Not knowing the Truth about a thing is a state which
itself is a call for correction. And so, ask for correction.

Let your prayer each day, each moment, be, &ldquo;Father, correct my
perception. Help me abandon my allegiance to incorrect perception. Help
me to be corrected.&rdquo; Don&rsquo;t wait for someone else to come
along and recognize that the way you&rsquo;re being in the world is a
call for correction, who will then love you enough to elicit and inspire
a corrected perception. Ask for correction yourself. Initiate the
process of correction yourself. In other words, understand that when you
look at a flower, or you look at your mate, or you look at a friend or a
tree, or whatever, and you say, &ldquo;I desire to see more of What God
Is Being there than I&rsquo;m seeing,&rdquo; you are asking for
correction of your mind, which means that you&rsquo;re going to have to
allow a change of mind to take place. And you are going to have to let
yourself be made new. Just be aware of that.

I love you.

The more stark the difference between Truth and illusion, the more
fascinating and the more interesting waking up becomes. So don&rsquo;t
be afraid to look illusion squarely in the face. And don&rsquo;t be
afraid to look at your misguided behavior squarely in the face, because
when you do, it becomes obvious to you what you do and don&rsquo;t want
to participate in. And so you can bring your willingness to the process
of inner correction. And you won&rsquo;t die from it, and you
won&rsquo;t hurt from it, and you will not be made to feel guilty, in
the process, for anything. But you will be called upon to allow the
correction to occur, so that you are no longer engaging in the actions
arising out of misunderstanding or lack of clarity in you that has
reinforced your bondage and kept you from knowing Who You Are.

You know me, I could talk endlessly. There is enough here for you to let
sink in, be with.

And I look forward to being with you next week.

[^1]: T9.10 The Denial of God

