---
title: Jul 3, 2005
ref: T9.10 The Denial of God
alink: "/acim/text/09/chap0910/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who is joining us on the Internet.

Don&rsquo;t think for a minute that it&rsquo;s always your family, or
your friends, or your acquaintances, who are the ones who stubbornly
resist accepting the Truth, who stubbornly hold on to their already
established concepts, and who fight for their right to be ill, or fight
for their right to be distressed. I say this because it&rsquo;s very
easy as you learn more, as light bulbs go on and you see things in a new
way and you begin to behave in a new way and your experience improves,
it&rsquo;s very easy for you to want your family and your friends to
have this experience as well.

And so when you see them distressed and you know they don&rsquo;t need
to be, or you see them ill and you know they don&rsquo;t need to be, you
want to do something about it and you share with them what you&rsquo;ve
learned. And maybe they laugh at you or maybe they pooh-pooh it, but one
way or another they don&rsquo;t accept it and their life doesn&rsquo;t
change. Correction doesn&rsquo;t occur. And you say, &ldquo;Their
unwillingness to listen is forcing me to have to watch them suffer, and
that causes me great heartache. That causes me anguish.&rdquo; And
really, at the bottom line, what your ego is doing there is saying to
you, &ldquo;They are showing you that Truth is powerless. They are
showing you that you are powerless.&rdquo; In other words, they are
showing you that you must just suffer watching them suffer, deteriorate
and die.

And this causes the warrior-in-you to get up on its haunches and take
hold of them by the shoulders and shake some sense into their head, as
though you could. And at the bottom line, all the warrior is trying to
do is to make them change so that you will be relieved of having to
watch them take a path that constitutes suffering and deterioration and
death. You act boldly to relieve yourself, to make them stop making you
hurt. You say, &ldquo;Boy, if that isn&rsquo;t stubborn will, I
don&rsquo;t know what it is. They are so g&mdash;d&mdash;- stubborn, it
pisses me off. It makes me so angry to see how headstrong they are. And
it really pisses me off that I can see the answer and I can share it
with them, and they refuse to accept it. They insist upon the path
they&rsquo;re on. They are determined to continue forward, even though
they want to fill my ears with the distress of it all that they&rsquo;re
experiencing.&rdquo;

Now here&rsquo;s where the practicality of it all comes in. Here&rsquo;s
where the black and whiteness of it comes in. Each of you is just as
stubborn as they are, except that you are more comfortable with your
determined path than you are with theirs.

We&rsquo;ve been slowly moving through the Course. And ultimately you
will find that there were umpteen times over the past two and half years
in which you could have gotten it, because the best is not saved for
last. The best has been conveyed on every page every time we&rsquo;ve
met. So what&rsquo;s the value of this realization? The value of it is,
the value of it lies in the realization that no one&mdash;not your
friends, not your parents, not your children, not your
acquaintances&mdash;no one, not even you, will see the Truth until each
one gives permission. That means that you personally have no power to
force anyone to accept their good. But you do hold the key to your
Awakening because you are the one who can give yourself permission to
let God in. No one else can give that permission for you.

And here&rsquo;s the interesting thing. When you do that&mdash;when you
say, &ldquo;Father, Thy Will not mine be done. I&rsquo;m willing to
abandon the exercise of my will and the authority that I think it ought
to have. I&rsquo;m willing to abandon that. Maybe not 100% of the time,
maybe not even totally at this moment, but I am willing to soften my
authoritative stance enough to hear Your Voice, enough to let myself
feel the Fullness of Being that it&rsquo;s my Birthright to be
experiencing because You are my Source and You are withholding nothing
of What You Are from me,&rdquo;&mdash;and when you do that, I mean when
you really do it, you will feel yourself infilled. And as I&rsquo;ve
said before, the infilling of it, the Experience of Love that you feel
yourself embraced by and consumed with will give you new eyes with which
to see your parents, your family, your friends, your acquaintances, that
doesn&rsquo;t originate with their behavior or their beliefs, but
originates with a clarity you find yourself imbued with because you have
given up your stubbornness, at least for that moment. And then you will
be inspired to say or do or act in a certain way with your friends or
family or acquaintances. But it won&rsquo;t give you power to change
them against their will.

The Fullness of the Gift you share with them by speaking from the
infilling, may just plant seeds which they will wait to water and
harvest. But you will know that you have been with them from a Place of
Wholeness&mdash;one in which your Purpose has been fulfilled, or is
being fulfilled. And whether the quote &ldquo;response&rdquo; from
others that you&rsquo;re sharing this with is immediate or not, will
make no statement to you about your effectiveness.

It&rsquo;s so easy to think that learning the Truth is a means of
getting power from a new level, which is exactly what the
warrior-mentality would look for. That you operate in a
warrior-mentality is a given, even though we haven&rsquo;t talked about
it up until just a month or so ago.

How many of you have seen [the movie] War of the Worlds? And of those
who have seen it, for how many [finger snap] did a red light go on, did
a red flag [finger snap] go up, because in the opening and closing
moments of the film, the big bang theory and evolution was presented? It
was an incredible teaching tool, this film was, because of its dynamic,
its impact, and the number of people it will reach. And they will watch
it and they will say, &ldquo;Yes, the aliens quote &lsquo;had not earned
the right to live on this planet,&rsquo; and thus they were destroyed by
a microorganism against which they had no immunity.&rdquo;

How many listened to that and no red flag went up at all? No recognition
that here the warrior-mentality, the conflict-ridden context of
existence was being reinforced, inviting strengthened mutual agreement
about the human condition. If no flags went up, if no recognition that
this was exactly the opposite of what we&rsquo;ve been talking about
occurred, you watched it in the warrior-mentality that you accept and
employ. Yes, you employ it.

If whatever you accept, you employ in coping with your world&mdash;if
red flags didn&rsquo;t go up, if an alert did not occur, even the most
minor recognition that, &ldquo;Wow, this is exactly the opposite of what
Raj has been talking about,&rdquo; you demonstrated your stubborn
willingness to not embrace the Truth that we&rsquo;ve been talking
about. And you demonstrated your stubbornness&mdash;which means your
practice of inertia&mdash;your practice of being slow to lean out of the
rut to your lack of enthusiasm for seeing differently. That&rsquo;s
stubborn will.

You say, &ldquo;God, I was just watching a movie. And you&rsquo;re
telling me I was in there being willful? Don&rsquo;t be
ridiculous!&rdquo; But wait a minute. You don&rsquo;t just exist in the
context of a movie, or the context of a single event in your week or
your day. You exist in the context of the frame of mind you are
employing. You live in the context of the way in which you are using
your mind.

Now last week we ended up by my inviting you to ask for correction. In
other words, don&rsquo;t just move along in your stupid rest.
Don&rsquo;t just move along in your ignorance, the status quo, the level
of comfort you&rsquo;ve reached while not yet being awake. If
you&rsquo;re not experiencing the Divinity of Existence, if anything you
see is not registering with you as awesome, then you are stubbornly
insisting on not seeing that. You are still stubbornly insisting upon
your staying right in your orphan-hood&mdash;your wanting to be able to
authorize, instead of God.

And so, yes, by not seeing more than what was being presented, you were
being willful. You were continuing the willful act of saying,
&ldquo;But, Father, I&rsquo;d rather see it myself. I&rsquo;d rather see
it my way.&rdquo; And that&rsquo;s the habit we&rsquo;re breaking.
That&rsquo;s the habit I&rsquo;m encouraging you to break. So
let&rsquo;s be alert. And let&rsquo;s not just accept the status quo.
And let&rsquo;s take a moment every now and then, or even more
frequently, to say, &ldquo;Father, what&rsquo;s the more of what&rsquo;s
going on here than what I&rsquo;m seeing? What&rsquo;s the more that
You&rsquo;re Being than what I&rsquo;m seeing? I&rsquo;m willing to
abandon my definition to have the rare experience of seeing it and
experiencing it the way You&rsquo;re Being It.&rdquo;

Each of you is coping with being an orphan in very definite
well-established ways, just as your friends and family and acquaintances
are dealing with and coping with their lives in very specific ways. And
you are not a whole lot more amenable to changing your ways than they
are.

Now that can be taken as a criticism, and you all can feel really bad
about it if you want. But that&rsquo;s part of the warrior-game, too.
And you know what? I&rsquo;m not going to try to stop you. Feel bad if
you want.

When there&rsquo;s no payoff for feeling bad, when everyone around you
doesn&rsquo;t jump up and try to argue you out of it, what happens?
There&rsquo;s no payoff. But more than that, what happens is that you
experience suddenly being alone&mdash;lonely&mdash;which is a direct
experience, an unclouded experience of the isolation you claimed for
yourself when you said, &ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;d rather do it my way.
Father, I would rather provide the definition of this, that, and the
other thing.&rdquo; That was a step into isolation.

So, I&rsquo;m not going to tell you not to feel bad. I will say to you
that what I&rsquo;ve shared shouldn&rsquo;t make you feel bad, because
it&rsquo;s very practical information which, because it is so clearly
put, you, through the use of intelligence, can choose to either continue
employing or stop employing. And your choice will clearly be yours to
you, so that when you really become tired of discomfort, you will know
that the decision was yours, and therefore the power is yours to abandon
that path.

Of course, this brings up another point. You say to me, &ldquo;Does that
mean I should just let my parents die? Does that mean I should just let
my children continue to kill themselves with drugs? Does this mean I
should let people who are making unwise choices do it without arguing
with them?&rdquo; Well, the answer is &ldquo;Yes.&rdquo; Why? Because
you&rsquo;ve got to credit them with as much intelligence as you credit
yourself. What do I mean by that? I mean that you&rsquo;ve got to
acknowledge that they are the Christ, they are the Ultimate, using their
mind poorly&mdash;but they are still doing it with purpose and resolve
and commitment&mdash;three elements of Sane Being [which is being] used
unwisely. And they will use those three capacities wisely only when it
serves them to do it&mdash;not when it serves you for them to do it.

You know what? The minute you start treating another as though they have
Fundamental Divine Capacities that they are using on purpose, and
you&rsquo;re not about to argue them out of the poor use of their mind
that they&rsquo;re putting their mind to, as I said, there won&rsquo;t
be the payoff for them. You will be crediting them with the fact that
they are very skillfully&mdash;and I mean that truly&mdash;they are very
skillfully with great adeptness, configuring and conforming their lives
to be exactly the way they want it to be and exactly the way they know
it is necessary for it to be for them. Therefore, they are in ultimate
terms, completely safe. And when you no longer provide resistance for
them to kick against, the warrior-in-them will have lost a job. And it
will put them in a position of having to decide to use their God-given
Capacities in a different way.

How slowly are you getting the meaning of the Course? Two and a half
years could be considered slow&mdash;that is, if one is judging, which
I&rsquo;m not. You&rsquo;re getting it as fast as you&rsquo;re willing
to get it. Are you doing poorly because it&rsquo;s however slow it is?
Only if you&rsquo;re willing to get into judgment and evaluation.
You&rsquo;re letting in as much good as you can bear, to tell you the
truth. And in that sense, you could say you&rsquo;re doing very well
because correction is occurring. Your lives are changing. Your
perspective is changing. You are slowly abandoning the commitment to the
warrior-mentality.

Now you may feel that recently I&rsquo;ve become more focused or more
pushy. No, I&rsquo;m not trying to hurry you up. But you know what?
You&rsquo;re able to hear better. And so you&rsquo;re hearing what
I&rsquo;m saying louder. Because you are hearing better, your movement
of Awakening, if I may put it that way, is becoming more pronounced.
Your movement of Awakening is becoming more pronounced&mdash;what
I&rsquo;m saying isn&rsquo;t. You&rsquo;re going to be able to go back
to the tapes of the first meetings we had in the study group and find
that I&rsquo;ve said some radical new thing you just heard way back then
but it didn&rsquo;t register with you because you weren&rsquo;t
listening as well.

So, before you use your mind poorly by engaging in judgment about your
family, your friends, and your acquaintances, and their stubbornness,
before you engage in the judgment that will actually cause you to become
ill if you become too intense about it, just dare to look at it (the
situation) realistically enough to say, &ldquo;Wow! They&rsquo;re just
like me. I&rsquo;m just like them.&rdquo; And then get down to the
business of going within and asking for correction for yourself. And
practice connecting with the Father. Practice leaning into the Holy
Spirit&mdash;leaning into It so that It might support you, infill you
with clarity. Because until that happens, you won&rsquo;t have anything
to give away that you&rsquo;ll want to keep.

&ldquo;Oh yes, but you talked about being able to be an agent for change
and that made me feel so good. I was so happy to hear that I could
actually be a true and valuable agent for change.&rdquo; Well, that was
nothing but the warrior-in-you feigning a willingness to not be a
warrior. And it really meant to be a warrior in a new and more delicate
way&mdash;not quite as direct, not quite as forceful&mdash;but just as
effective because it would be coming from the right place. You see?

Being an agent for change is what you are when you have said, &ldquo;Not
my will, Father, but Thine be done.&rdquo; And then you have been
undefended enough for Truth to penetrate your awareness from the Place
of Excellence in you&mdash;the Holy Spirit, the Communicator of
God&rsquo;s Will to you. That is the only path you should be determined
to walk. And when you walk that path and you become a Presence, totally
involuntarily changes begin to occur around you. People will begin to
report back to you that your mere Presence changed their lives in one
way or another.

And all you will be able to do is stand with them in awe.
&ldquo;That&rsquo;s wonderful. Thank you for telling me. I rejoice with
you.&rdquo; That&rsquo;s a far cry from, &ldquo;I told ya so. Yep. You
brought the problem to me and I set ya straight and aren&rsquo;t ya
grateful? I&rsquo;m so glad I could be of help.&rdquo; You see the
difference?

Let&rsquo;s go into the book.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If God knows His Children as wholly sinless, it is blasphemous to
perceive them as guilty.
</div>

Well, if you&rsquo;re perceiving them as guilty, it means you&rsquo;ve
applied a definition to them that the Father didn&rsquo;t apply, right?
You&rsquo;ve made-up a definition and you&rsquo;re giving preference to
that.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If God knows His Children as wholly without pain, it is blasphemous to
perceive suffering anywhere. If God knows His Children to be wholly
joyous, it is blasphemous to feel depressed.
</div>

I&rsquo;m just going to plant a seed here. Every one of you, if
you&rsquo;re experiencing depression, experiences it by design. You have
decided, &ldquo;What are the dynamics and what are the circumstances
under which I can&rsquo;t be happy?&rdquo; You have &hellip; what do
they call it? Oh, there are &ldquo;designer drugs&rdquo; they are
called. And there are &ldquo;designer illnesses.&rdquo; There are
&ldquo;designer mental problems.&rdquo; They&rsquo;re all designed. And
they&rsquo;re all designed to have a particular effect&mdash;an effect
that&rsquo;s wanted.

&ldquo;No. But I&rsquo;m not choosing to be depressed. I&rsquo;m not
choosing to be sad.&rdquo; Yes, always you are. You have determined the
circumstances and the conditions which, if they occur, you can&rsquo;t
help from feeling depressed about.

Now, I know many of you are shaking your heads and disagreeing with me,
but take a look. Does what depresses you depress your neighbor? Oh, no.
Your neighbor says, &ldquo;I would love to have your problem. That would
be no problem for me at all.&rdquo; Well, you see, that&rsquo;s not that
one&rsquo;s &ldquo;designer suffering&rdquo; or &ldquo;designer
problem.&rdquo; They didn&rsquo;t design it that way. But what depresses
them you would be glad to have to deal with because you would have no
problem with it.

So what does this mean? In simple, practical terms, it means that every
one of you make-up your problems. You design your problems. And at any
given moment, when a circumstance or event occurs that would cause you
to be depressed, at any given moment when that event or circumstance
occurs, you could say, &ldquo;Today I&rsquo;m not going to be depressed
by that.&rdquo; And if you mean it, you would find yourself moving on
through your day doing what you had planned on doing, or needed to do,
unaffected by the fact that that event or circumstance happened. Now
this is the Truth.

It&rsquo;s interesting, you don&rsquo;t hear the word
&ldquo;blasphemous&rdquo; or &ldquo;blasphemy&rdquo; very much these
days. What does it mean? Well, it has a couple of meanings. One of them
is to behave in a disrespectful way or to have a disrespectful attitude
toward God. But the more significant definition is the act of claiming
the Rights of God.

Well, when you say, &ldquo;I&rsquo;d rather look at that rose and see it
as a physical organism made up of matter, short-lived, something that will
die,&rdquo; wow, you&rsquo;re replacing God. You see? You are taking on
the rights, you are claiming the Rights of God to be the Creator of
something. And your definition, you expect to be able to prove is true.
That&rsquo;s blasphemy. You&rsquo;re taking on claiming the Rights of
God. You&rsquo;re trying to be equal to God.

Are you going to be punished for blasphemy? Well, no external source is
going to punish you. But you&rsquo;re already being punished when
you&rsquo;re in the frame of mind that says, &ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;d
rather define it myself. Father, step back, please. I&rsquo;m about to
override What You&rsquo;ve Made There by giving it a new meaning.
Don&rsquo;t interfere with me.&rdquo; And God doesn&rsquo;t interfere
with you. But you pay the penalty of forgetting that you&rsquo;re
God&rsquo;s Son, God&rsquo;s Daughter, God&rsquo;s Expression. And you
suffer from the ignorance of Who You Are. And we&rsquo;ve gone on at
length about that. But that&rsquo;s how blasphemy works and that&rsquo;s
what blasphemy is.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
All of these illusions&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning seeing your Brother as guilty, or in pain, or
suffering.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
All of these illusions, and the many other forms which blasphemy may
take, are REFUSALS to accept creation as it is.
</div>

The way God Is Being It as What God Is Meaning It To Be.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If God created His Son perfect, that is how you must learn to see him to
learn of his reality. And as PART of the Sonship, that is how you must
see YOURSELF to learn of YOURS.
</div>

Now what that means is that as an experience, you have to be willing to
move from the ideas and beliefs about yourself and everything else that
you have created and are so sure of, into an area where you are willing
to look at those things without the definitions&mdash;which means that
you are going to be looking at something that has no apparent meaning to
you, except that you know from what I&rsquo;ve said that the elements of
it are Divine, Eternal, Awesome, and so on. And it is as though you have
to move into a realm of what seems like fantasy compared to the
definiteness of the concepts you&rsquo;ve been employing. And so you
must be willing to look at your Brother, or the flower, or whatever it
might be, with a vision that is still not substantiated to your eyes.
It&rsquo;s as though you must be willing to know the Truth before there
is anything there to substantiate it to you.

Your brother (your family member) behaves in a way that is awful and
disturbing and unintelligent. And you have physical evidence of it. You
must be willing to stand in the face of that, even in the face of their
unrelenting presentation of it, and be willing to withdraw from what
your eyes are telling you and what they are asserting, to go within to
the Altar, to go to the Source of the Experience of Truth. And so
it&rsquo;s as though you are abandoning tangible reality for intangible
make-believe almost. And that&rsquo;s the way it may seem, but by going
within to the Source of the Experience of Truth, you are, for lack of
better words, aligning yourself with Reality, with a capital
&ldquo;R&rdquo;, that doesn&rsquo;t seem to be visible to you at the
moment. And that&rsquo;s what opens the door for a miracle&mdash;a
sudden shift of perception that is healing.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Do not perceive ANYTHING God did not create, or you are denying HIM.
</div>

You know what that means? As depressing as it might sound, it means that
for the most part as you go through your day, you are denying Him
because you are perceiving things that God did not create. And you know
what? You don&rsquo;t know which are the things that God did not create.
Now, I do not want to be confusing here. When you go through your day,
the only thing in your face is What God Has Created. But the way
you&rsquo;re seeing it, what you are determining those things to be, is
not What God Created. And it is what you have determined everything is
that stands between you and your direct experience of the Presence of
God there.

Now, put negatively as I&rsquo;ve just done, it could be another reason
for you to feel bad. Or, it could serve to simply mean that the only
thing confronting you is the Kingdom of Heaven seen through a glass
darkly, and therefore, it is utterly reasonable for you to engage a
level of curiosity that you&rsquo;ve not brought into play before. And
that doesn&rsquo;t involve feeling bad at all.

But I must point out to you that most everything you&rsquo;re seeing is
not What God Has Made, so that you have a reason to bring greater
curiosity into play. If you don&rsquo;t know that there is more to see,
you won&rsquo;t be curious. And if I don&rsquo;t tell you that the
majority of what you see, not just a little bit, but the majority of
what you see is not What God Created, you won&rsquo;t know how much Good
you have in store for you that&rsquo;s right in front of you&mdash;which
can increase your reason for engaging in curiosity even more.

Some people don&rsquo;t hear good news when it&rsquo;s provided in a
pleasant way. And so it is sometimes helpful to say, &ldquo;Here&rsquo;s
the good news. Most of what you&rsquo;re seeing isn&rsquo;t What God Is
Being. Most of what you&rsquo;re seeing is an illusion. Most of what
you&rsquo;re seeing is and constitutes an inadequate experience of
Being. But it&rsquo;s just an inadequate perception of something full of
Ultimate (capital &lsquo;M&rsquo;) Meaning&mdash;Awesome Divinity. I
don&rsquo;t want you to be comfortable in your ignorance, even if
you&rsquo;re not feeling distressed in it, because it&rsquo;s not your
Birthright to be experiencing such finite limitation.&rdquo;

Again.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Do not perceive ANYTHING God did not create, or you are denying HIM. His
is the ONLY Fatherhood, and it is yours only because HE has given it to
you. Your gifts to yourself are meaningless, but your gifts to YOUR
creations are like His because they are given in His Name.
</div>

See, the gift that you give to your world by saying, &ldquo;It&rsquo;s a
physical world and a material universe,&rdquo; is not a gift
that&rsquo;s given in His Name, because He doesn&rsquo;t show up
anywhere in that definition. All that shows up is you. And you are an
orphan. You see?

When you look at something and the Gift you give to it is an
Acknowledgement, a Recognition of its Divinity, the Gift is given in
God&rsquo;s Name because you had to invite God in, in order to
experience the Reality of the thing you&rsquo;re giving the Gift of True
Acknowledgement to. And that Gift of Acknowledgement, that Recognition
of the Divinity of a thing and your Acknowledgement of it, is what
constitutes your creation.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
That is why your creations are as real as His.
</div>

Why? Again, because they are given in His Name&mdash;without excluding
Him.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet the real Fatherhood must be acknowledged if the real Son is to be
known.
</div>

It&rsquo;s the only way you&rsquo;re going to come back into the True
Experience of Who and What You Are&mdash;by annulling the divorce with
your Father.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You believe that the sick things which you have made are your real
creations because you believe that the sick images you perceive ARE the
Sons of God.
</div>

[small laugh] Well, that&rsquo;s where blasphemy comes in, because
you&rsquo;re trying to be equal to God. You are engaging in acts of
usurping the Rights of God and claiming them for yourself. And so the
things that you have made become your offspring, your creations, the son
of a god.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Only if you accept the Fatherhood of God will you have ANYTHING because
His Fatherhood GAVE you everything. That is why to deny Him IS to deny
yourself. Arrogance is the denial of love because love SHARES and
arrogance WITHHOLDS. As long as both appear to you to be desirable, the
concept of choice, which is NOT of God, will remain with you.
</div>

Remember, the god of sickness is the belief that you have a capacity to
choose between gods&mdash;between God Who Is Real and the likeness of
God that you have made-up.

So:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As long as both &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; love and arrogance &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; appear to you to be desirable, the concept of choice, which is
NOT of God, will remain with you. While this is not true in eternity, it
IS true in time, so that, while time lasts in YOUR minds, there WILL be
choices. Time ITSELF was your choice.
</div>

And I&rsquo;m going to plant another little seed.

When you are not resisting God, you are inseparable with the Movement of
Being&mdash;which is Eternal, a Singularity&mdash;and &ldquo;time&rdquo;
is a meaningless word and a non-experience. When you attempt to resist
the Movement by engaging in an independent movement, you create a
tension&mdash;a tension (t-e-n-s-i-o-n)&mdash;and it causes the
Omnipresent Conscious Experience of Being to appear to be moving away
from you because you are resisting and digging in your heels. It is an
illusion, but it seems quite real to the one doing it.

Has it not ever caused you to wonder why it is when you look out into
space with your telescopes that it appears that no matter where you
might be in the universe, it is moving away from you? That&rsquo;s part
of the illusion brought into play by the act of resistance which is
constituted of your attempting to act independent of the Movement of
Existence, the Movement of Being.

Not only that, hasn&rsquo;t it ever caused you to wonder why when you
look through your telescopes once you get just a fraction of the way
away from your planet, you&rsquo;re seeing the past? When you look at
your sun, you&rsquo;re seeing what happened eight minutes ago.
You&rsquo;re not able to see the present. It&rsquo;s almost as though
you are in prison. What&rsquo;s Really Going On Now is absolutely
unavailable to you. All you can see is what was. You have been put in a
very limited experience&mdash;one of absolute isolation. That&rsquo;s
the way time is experienced. And time is a sensation, you might say, an
illusory sensation that is brought into play when you begin to resist
the Movement of Being by having a determination to act independent of
the Movement.

The moment you relax that determination and yield back into what will
seem like cooperation with the Movement, once you let the Movement take
over, everything will snap back into focus, so to speak. Time will cease
to be an experience. And the Universe will become available to you in
its Totality in the Now&mdash;will be visible with telescopes. And you
will not be experiencing an isolation. Nor will you be experiencing an
expanding universe. So much for the big bang theory&mdash;that&rsquo;s
just the best explanation that can be come up with when one is
attempting to be the definer of life without ever inquiring of Life
Itself What It Is.

Just a little seed I planted there about why things appear to be the way
they are.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you would remember eternity, you must learn to look ONLY on the
eternal. If you allow yourselves to become preoccupied with the
temporal, you ARE living in time.
</div>

Well, the only things that are temporal are the definitions you made-up.
And if you&rsquo;ve been making something up, you&rsquo;re standing in
resistance to and at odds with the Movement of Being Itself. And
that&rsquo;s called &ldquo;time.&rdquo;

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As always, your choice is determined by what you value.
</div>

And right now you are valuing this apparent capacity you think you have
to make-up definitions that can, by the force of your will and your
determination and your skill at being coercive with your Brothers and
Sisters, cause to become as Real as God&rsquo;s Creations. That&rsquo;s
what you&rsquo;re valuing at the moment.

And you don&rsquo;t say, &ldquo;I value this.&rdquo; You say,
&ldquo;I&rsquo;m stuck in this.&rdquo; But you won&rsquo;t abandon the
definition you&rsquo;re applying to the word &ldquo;this.&rdquo;
You&rsquo;re not willing to abandon the act of independent authorization
that causes you to seem to be stuck in the human condition&mdash;when
all there is to the human condition is the Kingdom of Heaven seen
through a glass darkly, seen through the lens of your definitions.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Time and eternity cannot both be real because they contradict each
other.
</div>

Remember, &ldquo;time&rdquo; is a sensation you have that colors your
experience of Eternity and causes it to seem to be moving away from you
and keeps you from seeing it all in the Now&mdash;causing it, the
majority of it, to appear to be the past.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Time and eternity cannot both be real because they contradict each
other. If you will accept only what is timeless as real, you will begin
to understand eternity, and make it yours.

</div>
The only thing that is Timeless is Everything when you&rsquo;re not
applying a little bit of torque to your perception of it all and having
an independent slant on it. And the only way to get back to the Timeless
is to stop applying that little bit of torque, which is brought into
play by an unwise use of will.

How do you abandon an unwise use of will? By being willing to yield to
the Way Everything Works&mdash;the capital &ldquo;W&rdquo; Way&mdash;by
yielding to and wanting to experience Truth, What God Is Being, right
where you have overlaid the Kingdom of Heaven with your definition. So,
stop being so sure of yourself and start being curious to see beyond
what you think everything is. And let that become your practice. And let
it become your practice more and more consistently through your day.

&ldquo;I wonder What That Really Is? I wonder What That Really
Is?&rdquo; Like a child in the car. &ldquo;What&rsquo;s that?
What&rsquo;s that? What&rsquo;s that?&rdquo;&mdash;until it drives you
crazy. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s a cow.&rdquo; &ldquo;What&rsquo;s a cow?&rdquo;
You see? &ldquo;I wonder what the more is that is there.&rdquo; Become
curious. Become innocently curious and ask your Father,
&ldquo;What&rsquo;s the More Of You that&rsquo;s here than what
I&rsquo;m seeing?&rdquo;

And just as with children, your curiosity may come too fast and furious,
and the answers you&rsquo;re getting aren&rsquo;t as complete as you
want them, and you become impatient. Well, just calm down and just
continue to ask. The persistence of asking, you might say, sets up a new
field of energy. Please do not take me literally here. It sets up a
mental context of receptivity that draws, like desire does, something
toward you. And so, as you go through your day, whether you&rsquo;re
getting vividly enlightening answers or not, continue to ask because it
sets the tone of receptivity. Stop settling for the status quo.

I look forward to being with you next week.

[^1]: T9.10 The Denial of God

