---
title: Jul 10, 2005
ref: "T10 Introduction"
alink: "/acim/text/10/chap1000/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who is joining us on the Internet.

You know, last week I said, you know, if you want to feel bad because
you&rsquo;re moving slowly in your process of Awakening, or if
you&rsquo;re feeling guilty for not trying hard enough, if you&rsquo;re
feeling as though you&rsquo;re doomed to failure because you&rsquo;ve
been trying to know the Truth for years to discover it and look where
you are, I said if you want to feel bad because of those things, go
ahead. But I want to reaffirm that every intent you feel that you
enliven within yourself to see the more of Reality that is present than
what you&rsquo;re presently seeing, you&rsquo;re doing well. Because you
are doing what? You are providing what I&rsquo;m going to call the
mental environment&mdash;your mental environment&mdash;you&rsquo;re
providing the environment in which discovery and realization can occur.
You&rsquo;re providing the environment in which a sudden shift of
perception can occur.

And I want to remind you of something. You exist by Grace&mdash;not by
anything you do or don&rsquo;t do. You will wake up by Grace and you
will experience healing by Grace. You may provide the environment in
which Grace can register with you, but you can&rsquo;t be responsible
for the healing or the Awakening.

And if you on your own can&rsquo;t be responsible for it, then
there&rsquo;s nothing to feel bad about if you haven&rsquo;t experienced
it yet. Feeling bad about things, feeling guilty about things is part of
the human condition. And what I mean by that is that it&rsquo;s part of
the frame of reference that everyone is in who has said, &ldquo;Father,
I&rsquo;d rather define it myself. Father, I&rsquo;d rather do it my
way,&rdquo; and then proceeded to try to do it. The impossible is being
attempted. It can&rsquo;t be accomplished. Down deep every single one of
you knows it, and you feel foolish for trying it. You cover it up, but
it&rsquo;s there. You know it can&rsquo;t be done.

Because you feel vulnerable in that independent, so-called independent
state, you recognize that something is wrong&mdash;and I mean by that
out of kilter, out-of-sync. And wrong is bad, and therefore you must be
guilty for doing something wrong. No. It doesn&rsquo;t call for guilt.
Being out-of-sync with things isn&rsquo;t something you will be punished
for. It&rsquo;s an experience that simply needs to be abandoned.
That&rsquo;s all it means. You&rsquo;re doing something that can&rsquo;t
be done&mdash;abandon the attempt. As long as you don&rsquo;t abandon
the attempt, you will feel vulnerable, you will feel uneasy, you will
feel the out-of-sync-ness.

And so I encourage you all to forget about feeling guilty, to forget
about feeling bad, to stop thinking that you know how much better you
ought to be doing&mdash;and just energetically, enthusiastically engage
your curiosity about each and every thing you&rsquo;re confronted with.
&ldquo;Father, I would like to see the more of What You&rsquo;re Being
right there, right there, right there, than what I&rsquo;m
seeing.&rdquo; That invitation is a desire. Even if initially you think
that desire is pure foolishness, it is a desire that nurtures or makes a
nurturing environment for the light bulbs to go on, for the
&ldquo;Aha&rsquo;s&rdquo; to occur, for insight and revelation to take
place. So lighten up. Lighten up but persist in the curiosity.

Lighten up so that persisting in the curiosity becomes a fun
experience&mdash;not a heavy duty one in which you&rsquo;re attempting
to overcome all the sins you&rsquo;ve engaged in by trying to do things
all by yourself. You&rsquo;ve engaged in doing nothing! You&rsquo;ve
engaged yourself in accomplishing nothing. No sin has occurred. No
punishable sin has occurred. It is possible for you to imagine
you&rsquo;ve done something wrong, but it&rsquo;s not possible to do
something wrong, because Reality cannot be altered from What It
Is&mdash;and it is a Singularity, not a polarized oppositional
environment. So I&rsquo;m encouraging you to stop engaging in
self-judgment and self-criticism. Grace occurs when you&rsquo;re not
expecting it. Grace does not occur by a decision you make.
Transformation and healing are inevitable because of What You Divinely
Are.

You know, we talked a couple of weeks ago about the only sure things are
death and taxes. Well, that&rsquo;s not true. The only sure thing is
that you will wake up. The only sure thing is that you will remember Who
You Are, because you cannot totally forget Who You Are and you cannot
secure your place in an illusory sense of self forever. Remember that.

Let&rsquo;s go to the book.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Chapter 10
</div>

In the Sparkly Book.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*God and the Ego*[^1]

Either God or the ego is insane. If you will examine the evidence on
both sides fairly, you will realize that this must be true. Neither God
nor the ego proposes a partial thought system.
</div>

I want you to consider this image. You all look around you at your world
through two eyes, and as a result you see a three-dimensional image.
Everything you see is affected by, or your perception of everything you
see is affected by the fact that you&rsquo;re looking with two eyes. Now
let&rsquo;s say that you said, &ldquo;I&rsquo;d rather see it a
different way,&rdquo; and so you took your hand and you covered up one
of your eyes, or you got a patch and put it over one of your eyes, and
now you&rsquo;re looking at everything, same thing you were always
looking at before, but now all you&rsquo;re seeing is a two-dimensional
image&mdash;flat, no sense of depth. And everything you see, your
perception of everything will be absolutely governed by the fact that
you&rsquo;re only looking at it with one eye.

When it says, &ldquo;Neither God nor the ego proposes a partial thought
system,&rdquo; it means that, like with your vision, whether
you&rsquo;re looking with two eyes or one eye, absolutely everything
that you experience visually is totally affected by the choice of the
way you&rsquo;re going to look at it&mdash;with two eyes or one eye. I
mentioned recently that from the vantage point of the ego, everything is
a singularity&mdash;just as from the vantage point of God, everything is
a Singularity&mdash;and this is just a reaffirmation of that.

Now waking up is rather like somebody saying to you, &ldquo;Open up your
other eye.&rdquo; &ldquo;Other eye?&rdquo; You see, you&rsquo;ve been
looking with only one of your eyes for so long you&rsquo;ve forgotten
that you have another eye. &ldquo;Well, another eye? Open my other eye?
I don&rsquo;t know what you&rsquo;re talking about.&rdquo;

Well, experiment a little bit. Squinch your face around and see if you
can make some other part of your face do something you haven&rsquo;t let
it do for a long time. In other words, have a little curiosity. Explore
a little bit. Have some fun venturing into an activity that you
haven&rsquo;t ventured into for a long time. You see? So that instead of
looking at things [laughing] with a private eye, you might look joined
with another eye.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Neither God nor the ego proposes a partial thought system. Each is
internally consistent&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and I&rsquo;m going to add: And total &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; but they are diametrically opposed in all respects, so that
partial allegiance is impossible. Remember, too, that their results are
as different as their foundations, and their fundamentally
irreconcilable natures CANNOT be reconciled by your vacillations.
</div>

You can&rsquo;t dance a jig good enough to make the two one. You
don&rsquo;t have enough mental agility to bring the two together.

Now:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Nothing alive is fatherless, for life is creation. Therefore, your
decision is always an answer to the question, &ldquo;Who is my
father?&rdquo;
</div>

Remember that the god of sickness is a capacity you think you have to
choose which God/god is Real/real&mdash;God or the likenesses of God you
have made-up. When you bow down to the likenesses of God that you have
made-up by redefining What God Is Being, you are exercising a capacity
you think you have to see things independent of the Father, even though
[laughing] it&rsquo;s All That The Father Is Being that you&rsquo;re
give new definitions to. You see, [small laugh] you say, &ldquo;But,
Father, I&rsquo;d rather do it on my own,&rdquo; but you don&rsquo;t
have anything to work on, on your own. So you deny the Father, while at
the same time redefining the Father. Now that is called &ldquo;a split
mind&rdquo; in the sense that you are denying God by using What God Is
to accomplish the denial. That&rsquo;s not independence at all.
It&rsquo;s a confused mind. You see?

You&rsquo;re still fixated on God even though you&rsquo;re saying,
&ldquo;God, I don&rsquo;t want to have anything to do with You.&rdquo;
So you apply a little bit of torque, a little bit of bias, to your
experience of What God Is Being, and so that you can say, &ldquo;You
see? What I&rsquo;m seeing is not God.&rdquo; But what you&rsquo;re
looking at and saying, &ldquo;It&rsquo;s not God,&rdquo; is just a
distorted perception of what? God. There&rsquo;s no independence or
separate activity there. There&rsquo;s just insanity.

Now what good does it do to know that? The good it does is that it helps
you to realize that all the time you&rsquo;re working so hard to come
back Home, you are working with the fundamental raw materials of
Creation, with a capital &ldquo;C&rdquo;&mdash;meaning that all
you&rsquo;re doing is learning to look at things without applying your
bias to it. You&rsquo;re looking at the Presence of God that you
don&rsquo;t think is God, and you&rsquo;re saying, &ldquo;God, I want to
see You there.&rdquo; What this means is that you haven&rsquo;t managed
to create a false creation somewhere other than Where God Is that would
make it rather difficult to get back to Where The Father Is, to get to
this other Universe or this other Dimension Where God Is, instead of
this dimension you have created.

You&rsquo;re right in the middle of the Kingdom of Heaven with constant
opportunity to discover the Kingdom of Heaven right in front of you
where it&rsquo;s always been. You&rsquo;re already Home, in other words.
This is the reason it helps to know this. Because it&rsquo;s not off in
the future and it&rsquo;s not off in another dimension&mdash;it&rsquo;s
right here. All the materials that you have to work with are God
Materials. All of them are the Presence of God. That&rsquo;s how close
God is and that&rsquo;s how close you are to God.

And even you are not the definition you have made-up about yourself. You
are the Expression of God. So every single one of you is in the best
possible position you could be. You&rsquo;re already Home. You are
neither behind the Point of Perfection nor advancing toward it. And all
it calls for you to do is to pay attention from that standpoint with
curiosity that understands that there isn&rsquo;t a whole lot to be
accomplished&mdash;just a shift of perception.

Since the whole mess was established by or apparently established by a
decision you made to see things independent of the Father, and it
resulted in effect by your getting a divorce from your Father and
standing as an orphan, it stands to reason that your waking up, your
coming back Home, will always rest on and proceed from your decision to
know the answer to the question, &ldquo;Who is my
Father?&rdquo;&mdash;because that&rsquo;s the way you undo the divorce.
And that&rsquo;s the way you undo your amnesia about your Identity.
Because the moment you invite the Father back in with an acknowledgement
that you have a Father, you immediately lay the groundwork for your
experiencing yourself as the Father&rsquo;s Offspring, which is your
Identity, in which lies your Sanity and the end of your confusion.

The key to Awakening, therefore, lies in the simple question, &ldquo;Who
is my Father?&rdquo;

Again.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Therefore, your decision is always an answer to the question, &ldquo;Who
is my father?&rdquo; And you will be faithful to the father you choose.
</div>

This would imply that since the chapter is entitled, &ldquo;GOD AND THE
EGO&rdquo; or &ldquo;GOD OR THE EGO,&rdquo; that they represent two
fathers, and you will serve one or the other.

Let&rsquo;s continue.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet what would you say to someone who really believed this question
involves conflict?
</div>

That question sort of jumps out from left field, doesn&rsquo;t it? Why
would it say that? Why would that question be asked at this point?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet what would you say to someone who really believed this question
involves conflict?
</div>

Well, you do think there&rsquo;s conflict, because you think there
really is an ego and you think there really is a God. And you think that
they really are opposed to each other, and they really are two actual
presences at odds with each other. After all, you are serving one or the
other. You&rsquo;re giving your allegiance to one or the other. You have
a preference for one or the other. So you do think there&rsquo;s
conflict.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet what would you say to someone who really believed this question
involves conflict?
</div>

Well, if you are not coming from a separated place, you would say to
that one, &ldquo;It&rsquo;s impossible for there to be conflict between
Something and nothing.&rdquo; God is the capital &ldquo;S&rdquo;
Something That Is All. And the ego is an imagination you came up with
that isn&rsquo;t real, and has no existence except as a spurious
thought. And even though you have been letting this spurious thought be
the foundation for your perception of the world and for your experience,
it doesn&rsquo;t exist and the way you&rsquo;ve been experiencing the
world has been pure illusion. There can&rsquo;t be conflict between
Something and nothing. You see?

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If YOU made the ego, how can the ego have made you?
</div>

Well, it&rsquo;s not really too difficult to answer that question,
believe it or not. I&rsquo;m going to start out by saying that when you
are awake, you don&rsquo;t think. You don&rsquo;t go through evaluative
processes. You don&rsquo;t go through processes of logic. You
don&rsquo;t make assessments of the Only Thing There Is to think about
or have assessments of&mdash;which is Creation. You are not holding
yourself apart from it and you are totally at one with it. And you stand
in constant awe of it, in constant wonder at it. And when you stand in
wonder at it, you are, for lack of better words, having an unboundaried
Experience of Joy and Bliss, because you are experiencing All of
Creation without distance between you and it. You and it are One.

And you recognizing What It Is&mdash;there are not better words than
this&mdash;experience Awe, experience a Fullness of Joy that I can best
describe as something which comes over you and consumes you and fills
you until it is the All of You of your Conscious Experience. And
there&rsquo;s no time or inclination to think about the experience. It
is Whole. The Infinity and Eternality of Creation is totally available
to you and constitutes your Conscious Experience. You and Creation, you
and your Brothers and Sisters are not separated in any way, even though
you are all eternally distinct. And you don&rsquo;t need to think. You
don&rsquo;t need to have language to talk with them, to communicate with
them, because the Communion of the Singularity of Creation is Total and
Now for you.

Now, the minute you have a thought, the minute you do say, &ldquo;I
wonder how this would look if I stood a little bit to the left, or stood
back a little bit, or narrowed down my range of vision so that I
wasn&rsquo;t taking in the whole thing. What would it look like if I
looked at it in a different way?&rdquo;&mdash;that&rsquo;s a
thought&mdash;a thought which apparently you could act upon. And
it&rsquo;s a thought that all of you did act upon. And it led to other
thoughts.

Once you had torqued or biased your perception of Creation, it made you
ask more questions. And before long, you thought to say, &ldquo;Well, I
wonder who&rsquo;s asking these questions?&rdquo;&mdash;because asking
questions and having thoughts, not being part of Reality, never had been
part of your experience. And so you said, &ldquo;Wow! There must be a
thinker here.&rdquo; You see? &ldquo;And that thinker must be me! That
means I&rsquo;m something.&rdquo;

But mind you, these are just thoughts being put together in an
apparently intelligent and logical way so that the togetherness of it
seems to state the presence of something actual. Well, because the
thoughts aren&rsquo;t you, then the thought that says, &ldquo;There must
be a thinker here and the thinker must be me,&rdquo; that thought still
isn&rsquo;t you. Stay with me here. But if you believe the thought, you
will proceed forward on that basis and be lost, because you will have
taken the bait of the illusion and succumbed to it.

What happens when you take the bait is you take this imaginatively
created sense of self as a fact, and you make a god of it, and you begin
to serve it, even though, as I&rsquo;ve been saying, it&rsquo;s nothing
more than a hypothesis. It&rsquo;s just an imagination which ultimately
makes no sense whatsoever. What you make a god of, you begin to serve.
And you&rsquo;ve been very happy to serve your ego for a long time,
because it&rsquo;s thrilling and invigorating and scary as hell.

And it keeps you feeling alive because you&rsquo;re constantly having to
overcome &hellip; [small laugh] I&rsquo;m going to say you&rsquo;re
constantly having to overcome the tendency to realize that all of what
is happening in that frame of mind is unreal, so that you can step back
from the point where you took the bait of the idea that because there
was someone thinking, there must be a thinker and that thinker must be
you. You need to step back from that.

And literally, one of the most effect ways to step back from that
thought is to move out of the arena of thinking which you do by
meditating, so that you have the opportunity through truly meditating to
find out that Consciousness and thinking are not equivalents. They are
not one and the same thing&mdash;that when no thought is going on, you
still are Conscious. A better way of putting it is that you experience
the fact that you are Consciousness, or Consciousness is What You
Are&mdash;Mind.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The authority problem remains the only source of perceived conflict,
because the ego was made out of the wish of God&rsquo;s Son to father
Him.
</div>

In other words, God.

You see, that was the meaning of blasphemy that we talked about last
week&mdash;your claiming the capacity to be equal to God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the ego was made out of the wish of God&rsquo;s Son to father
Him.
</div>

Well, it&rsquo;s worked pretty well. I mean it certainly is believed
that that is possible. Sociologists and students of religion,
historically speaking, many of them who do not have a belief in God, are
able to look at mankind and see that man has created God for himself out
of some great deep need. The connection with God has been so completely
forgotten, because it has been so completely ignored that it actually
has become possible for a large number of people on your planet to
believe that God is nothing but a religious belief that makes everyone
feel more comfortable in the human condition and gives them the means to
cope with the human condition as long as they&rsquo;re in it. You see?

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego, then, is nothing more than a delusional system, in which you
made your own father. Make no mistake about this. It sounds insane when
it is stated with perfect honesty, but the ego never looks upon what it
does with perfect honesty. Yet that IS its insane premise, which is
carefully hidden in the dark cornerstone of its thought system.
</div>

Why all the attempts to achieve? Why all the attempts to be successful?
Why all the attempts to become something or become more? Because
there&rsquo;s an innate Knowing that all of you have that of yourself
you are nothing. But you don&rsquo;t want to look at that, and so you
cover that clarity, that Sanity, up in the darkest recess, the furthest
out of sight. And then you put all of your energy into proving that
it&rsquo;s not true, into proving that you can become something, in
proving that you can authorize things.

Well, who are you going to prove it to? You can only prove it to other
people who are in the same state of mind. And so life becomes a process
of coercing everyone into seeing you the way you want them to see
you&mdash;to see you for who you want yourself to be. And existence is a
matter of ongoing manipulation in an attempt to establish mutual
agreements about what, primarily? About who you are.

And as long as you do that, you never allow yourself to get to the
Fundamental Kernel of Truth that&rsquo;s hidden away in the dark
recesses of your mind, covered up&mdash;that you of yourself can do
nothing, that you of yourself do not exist. But you do exist, and
therefore you exist because of Something. You are the Expression of
Something. You are the Son of Something. Therefore, you have a Father.
There is a Source, and you&rsquo;re not It.

And because you are not It, but It is All There Is of you, you need do
nothing to become. You need do nothing to accomplish. You need do
nothing to be a success. And you need not engage in the coercion of your
Brothers and Sisters to arrive at mutual-agreed-upon definitions of you.
And then allow yourself to succumb to and abide in that Kernel of Truth
that was hidden away in the dark recess, and just be. And in the absence
of the struggle to become, find the Fullness and Wholeness of You
uncovered to you once again, because you&rsquo;re not busy denying it by
struggling at becoming.

Again.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego, then, is nothing more than a delusional system&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; a fantasy &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; in which you made your own father. Make no mistake about this.
It sounds insane when it is stated with perfect honesty, but the ego
never looks upon what it does with perfect honesty. Yet that IS its
insane premise, which is carefully hidden in the dark cornerstone of its
thought system. And either the ego, which you made, IS your father, or
its whole thought system will not stand.
</div>

Awakening is the process of discovering that it will not stand and
letting it collapse, leaving you empty of all the definitions you have
come up with to attempt to give meaning to your existence so that you
might demonstrate your independent actuality.

As I&rsquo;ve said before, in the absence of those definitions, you will
have a temporary transitional experience of meaninglessness, because as
what you&rsquo;ve been familiar with is released and you&rsquo;re no
longer looking at it, and it no longer seems to be available to you
because you&rsquo;re not energizing it, you are confronted with that
which doesn&rsquo;t seem familiar to you and isn&rsquo;t making total
sense to you yet. It&rsquo;s God. It&rsquo;s Reality. It&rsquo;s What
Everything Really Is. And you must be willing to abide there as your
eyes, we will say, adjust to the new view. And you must abide with it
long enough for it to begin to once again make sense to you. And I must
say that so that when you have these experiences of, &ldquo;Wow. Nothing
I see means anything,&rdquo; you will abide with it, instead of recoil
from it and once again reengage your thinking processes.

&ldquo;Wow. Nothing means anything, at least not according to any of the
definitions I&rsquo;ve ever had. But I&rsquo;m willing to sit here and
pay attention, because I remember Raj said that every Part of Creation
has the capacity to communicate Its Meaning to me and to everything. And
Its Meaning is the Meaning the Father has set into place by being the
Movement of Creation. So the Presence of God there in that thing, has
the means of communicating What It Means (What It Is) to All of Creation
throughout Infinity, so that everyone who is Awake, and is not
experiencing any tiny isolation, will have the full experience of the
Meaning of that thing along with every other thing, and in that
experience have what I will carefully call &ldquo;The Experience of the
Wholeness of You&rdquo;&mdash;the one experiencing it all.

I know some of you have a feeling at times that what I&rsquo;m sharing
doesn&rsquo;t have any relevance to everyday life. And you can&rsquo;t
figure out how to apply it to everyday life. What you&rsquo;re calling
&ldquo;everyday life&rdquo; is really your best perceptions of
what&rsquo;s going on around you; perceptions that are arising out of a
false experience of your being independent, separate, tiny and
vulnerable. And yes, what I am saying doesn&rsquo;t really have
relevance to those definitions, those filters through which you are
looking at everything and seeing Creation incorrectly or falsely. It is
good to realize that there isn&rsquo;t a relevance between Reality and
your misperceptions of Reality. The Experience of Truth is not a tool
that you can bring into your false perception of things and manipulate
the perception around so that it&rsquo;s pleasant.

Again, going back to the beginning.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Neither God nor the ego proposes a partial thought system. Each is
internally consistent, but they are diametrically opposed in all
respects, so that partial allegiance is impossible. Remember, too, that
their results are as different as their foundations, and their
fundamentally irreconcilable natures CANNOT be reconciled by your
vacillations.
</div>

Or by your mental manipulations.

Now I&rsquo;m going to tell you something. When you reach for the Truth,
when you ask of the Father or the Holy Spirit to be illuminated by What
Is Real and the illumination comes and you feel bliss and you feel
whole, and you are not filled with fear even if the circumstances which
drove you to reach to the Holy Spirit haven&rsquo;t changed, you have
been moved into a place that you should hold onto with great love and
appreciation and valuing&mdash;even if from the warrior-mentality or
from the old ego-standpoint that&rsquo;s looking for a way to change the
human condition, nothing has changed. You cannot afford to take the
bait, so to speak&mdash;to go into bliss or go into your peace so that
you may bring your peace back into the illusion, into the misperceptions
and accomplish something with it. That&rsquo;s not what it&rsquo;s
about. You must hold onto the Experience of Wholeness that you&rsquo;re
having. Hold onto it by continuing to give your attention to it. And
from Its Place, move in the world. That&rsquo;s called &ldquo;being in
the world, but not of it.&rdquo; That&rsquo;s called &ldquo;be.&rdquo;
And by being heal the sick.

The dream will not improve by dissolving unless you insist upon desiring
of the Holy Spirit, or your Guide, or the Father, to have the Conscious
Experience of Truth and of Reality, and then holding fast to it (the
experience), holding fast to the ongoing Connection with the Holy Spirit
where sudden shifts of perception can continue to increasingly occur. If
you stay there, the human condition will report back to you changes,
improvements, healing. And you will begin to see things more
consistently as They Truly Divinely Are.

The ego is a hypothesis&mdash;an imagination. And the ego as what you
are and your belief that it is what you are is also a hypothesis&mdash;a
mad idea, a crazy idea&mdash;an idea that has no substance or Truth to
it. And you cannot move into the Conscious Experience of Truth and
somehow bring That Which Is Irreconcilable with a mad idea, back into
the mad idea&rsquo;s territory and make the mad idea less mad. You see,
you say, &ldquo;Oh, I want to crawl out of the crab barrel. I want to
get out of all this confusion, and all of this confinement, and all of
this tininess, and all of this struggling to get to the top. I want to
get out so that I can go get the good news and bring it back.&rdquo;
Well, let me tell you something. When the crab gets out of the barrel,
it can&rsquo;t bring all of the space and all of the freedom and all of
the lack of conflict from outside the barrel back into the barrel,
because the barrel is a confined space. It is a space that can&rsquo;t
hold all of everything else, all of the absence of conflict and struggle
and strife.

And even if you could bring back a little bit of it, all of the other
crabs in the barrel would be still saying, &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t bother me
with that crap. I have got to get past Henry here because he&rsquo;s
between me and the top of the barrel. And that&rsquo;s what I &hellip;
if you can tell me how to do that, I&rsquo;ll listen to you.&rdquo; And
you say, &ldquo;Well, gee whiz. While I was out of the barrel and I was
experiencing unimaginable things, I never did hear anything about how to
get past Henry,&rdquo;&mdash;because being out of the barrel
doesn&rsquo;t have anything to with being in the barrel. The Truth
doesn&rsquo;t have anything to do with illusion. The Movement of
Creation which is Real and the Energy of Spirit that constitutes every
Manifestation of Creation Infinitely is not a
hypothesis&mdash;it&rsquo;s actual. It&rsquo;s the Conscious Experience
of Reality. And what&rsquo;s actual can&rsquo;t interface in any way
with that which is hypothetical.

So what am I saying to you? I&rsquo;m saying, &ldquo;Stop being
frustrated,&rdquo; if you&rsquo;re getting something out of what
I&rsquo;m saying, but you&rsquo;re frustrated because you can&rsquo;t
relate it to your immediate human condition; because there ain&rsquo;t
no human-condition-as-such&mdash;there is just the Kingdom of Heaven
being perceived by you through a sieve. What I called last week your
&ldquo;designer problem,&rdquo; your &ldquo;designer distresses,&rdquo;
your &ldquo;designer glasses&rdquo; that give the most incredible
distortions, the most incredibly fascinating distortions&mdash;oh, that
can occupy you for hours, trying to get it straightened out, making
sense out of it, so you can be at peace. You see?

You have given definitions to your circumstances, but the definitions
are hypotheses that provide a little bit of distress. When you take a
rod of steel and you twist it and you cause a little torque to occur,
the word that is used for that is &ldquo;distress.&rdquo; The metal is
being distressed. And when you apply distress&mdash;a designer distress,
a distress that is absolute for you&mdash;&ldquo;If she says that to me
one more time, I will hit the roof! I will leave her!&rdquo;&mdash;well,
there&rsquo;s your design and that&rsquo;s your &ldquo;designer
distress.&rdquo; And you know what? The word that could send you through
the roof could be &ldquo;popcorn.&rdquo; [audience laughter]
You&rsquo;re getting the feel for it.

Because you&rsquo;re in the middle of one thing only, the Kingdom of
Heaven, which is a Singularity&mdash;which means there are no
polarities; there is no polarization; there is no conflict; there is
only Perfect, Infinite Unity. Your willingness to turn to the Holy
Spirit to have the True Experience of Reality revealed to you is going
to cause you to see the only thing that&rsquo;s in front of you more
clearly for What It Is, which isn&rsquo;t going to have anything to do
with the &ldquo;designer perception&rdquo; that you have developed and
apply to the Kingdom of Heaven.

And so improvement, healing, regeneration and redemption of experience
is going to occur, but not because you&rsquo;ve been able to bring some
of Infinity back into the limitations of the crab barrel and work things
around, manipulate things around, so that there&rsquo;s more room and
more freedom, and everyone knows that they do not have to get past Henry
to become something. Ultimately everyone will abandon the barrel. And
the barrel will sit empty, without any confinement associated with it,
without any activity going on in it of stress and distress, suffering
and becoming, and proving oneself, and demonstrating that oneself is
real, and all that accompanies being an orphan.

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Nothing alive is fatherless, for life is creation.
</div>

The Movement&mdash;the Infinite Movement of Being&mdash;God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Therefore, your decision is always an answer to the question&hellip;
</div>

This is no matter what decision you make&mdash;whether you&rsquo;re
going to still try to get past Henry, or whether you&rsquo;re going to
climb out of the barrel entirely, [or] whether you&rsquo;re going to try
to bring back what was outside the barrel into the barrel, or whether
you&rsquo;re going to permanently stay outside of the barrel&mdash;any
of these decisions.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; your decision is always an answer to the question, &ldquo;Who
is my father?&rdquo; And you will be faithful to the father you choose.
</div>

So, you won&rsquo;t go out, like onto a high mountain, and reconnoiter
with God and then take what you have gathered from God back into your
dream, back into your private sense of yourself to use on your Brothers
and Sisters for their good through coercion, manipulation, to make
things better for them, because you love them. Because all that will
amount to is you as an ego, as a warrior, attempting to do something so
much better than everyone else that everyone else benefits and will
recognize your value and say to you, &ldquo;We adore you. We honor you.
We know you are a meaningful Presence, so much more meaningful than us.
And we want to become your students. And we want you to teach us how to
be like you. We want to join with you, and be like you, and be with you,
and for you to be with us. We want to have &lsquo;a holy
relationship.&rsquo;&rdquo; And I do mean that sarcastically. And I do
mean that as a wake-up call to all of you who misunderstand the meaning
of the term &ldquo;holy relationship&rdquo; as it&rsquo;s used in the
Course. And I will have more to say about that at another time. Let that
be a little seed planted.

I will just say, as a last word today, holy relationships are not a
means of proving that you are meaningful. Better relationships than
you&rsquo;ve ever had before, based upon Knowledge of God and Knowledge
of Truth brought to bear in a human relationship between two individuals
still independent from God, does not constitute anything worth
achieving, even if it&rsquo;s called &ldquo;the nurturing of a holy
relationship.&rdquo; I mean the guy trying to get past Henry, will not
be a better crab&mdash;by virtue of having a holy relationship with
Henry where there&rsquo;s no more strife between he and Henry&mdash;when
they&rsquo;re both still in the crab barrel and aren&rsquo;t interested
in getting out.

I will stop there.

I love you all.

And I&rsquo;m just going to say no matter what you think, you&rsquo;re
not in the crab barrel. [audience laughter] And you don&rsquo;t have to
get past Henry, or Henrietta. And you don&rsquo;t have to change a
g&mdash;d&mdash;- thing in the crab barrel, because the crab barrel is
an unnatural, and not even actual, environment.

I look forward to being with you all next week.

[^1]: T10 Introduction

