---
title: Jul 24, 2005
ref: "T10.1 Projection versus Extension"
alink: "/acim/text/10/chap1001/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who is joining us on the Internet.

Why do you think we have these quiet times before we begin? I mean,
after all, Paul could wait in another room of the house before we start,
and get centered, and come out loaded for bear, ready to go. We have the
quiet time so that it&rsquo;s easier for everyone to shift gears from
the use to which they have been putting their mind to.

I mean, after all, let&rsquo;s look at the first sentence.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Could any part of God be WITHOUT His Love, and could any part of His
Love be contained?
</div>

Now I&rsquo;m pretty sure that what that is asking and the context of
the question is probably just about as far away from anything
you&rsquo;ve been doing this past week as anything could be. And we
can&rsquo;t just jump into this infinite wading pool, so to speak.

Let me ask this: How many of you remembered during this past week to pay
attention to the times in which you used your mind to think a
mean-spirited thought about someone, so that you could stop in
mid-stride and not pursue that thought to its end conclusion?

And then, you know, we can look at this first sentence and say,
&ldquo;This is wonderful. I&rsquo;m sure that what it means must be
wonderful. [laughing] But it doesn&rsquo;t really relate to my
life.&rdquo; And the reason I hang in here with everyone is because it
does relate to your life, and you just don&rsquo;t know it. It
isn&rsquo;t that this sort of thing doesn&rsquo;t relate to your life.
It&rsquo;s that it doesn&rsquo;t relate to the use to which you put your
mind.

You are neither behind the Point of Perfection, nor advancing toward it.
Now you all think that you are. And you all think that life is a matter
of moving toward your Perfection&mdash;refining yourself, perfecting
yourself. But you aren&rsquo;t behind the Point of Perfection nor
advancing toward it; you&rsquo;re at that Point. But you don&rsquo;t use
your mind as though that&rsquo;s the Truth. You don&rsquo;t let that be
the foundation and the context from which you engage in your everyday
activities. And you don&rsquo;t engage in your everyday activities as
though that must, that just must be the Truth about everyone else
I&rsquo;m dealing with. And as a result, because you are not using your
mind on that basis, you see no evidence of the Truth and the practical
relevance of that statement.

And you keep yourself from having revelations. Revelations: sudden
shifts of perception in which your definitions get lost in light of the
view you are now seeing. Why? Because you put yourself into alignment to
see Everything As It Is by using your mind in a way that didn&rsquo;t
cover up What Everything Was. Nothing that we&rsquo;re doing is being
done so that you can be the maker of better definitions; more loving
definitions; definitions that are more like What The Father Is Being;
definitions that are more like What Love Must Really Be.

You must shift gears. You must shift from becoming to Being.
&ldquo;Well, how do I do that? What do you mean
&ldquo;Being&rdquo;&mdash;shifting to Being? How do you do Being?&rdquo;
You see? [laughing] Well, you don&rsquo;t do Being. You&rsquo;re already
doing Being. You&rsquo;re conscious, aren&rsquo;t you? You&rsquo;ve
never had an experience of not being conscious. So you exist; you are.
Being is what is happening as you.

So, instead of becoming, it&rsquo;s a matter of learning to relax and
just be. Just be what? Just be conscious. Just be attentive. Just be
curious. Just be open. &ldquo;Well, that doesn&rsquo;t work in the
everyday world, Raj.&rdquo; It may not work in the everyday world, but
it is the Actuality Of What Is Happening in the everyday world. Every
single one of you is Being. And the Being that you are Being is not
something you are doing.

It&rsquo;s because you are already Being that you have the opportunity
to imagine that you can make-up definitions. What&rsquo;s making up the
definitions? You are. Well, what is this &ldquo;you&rdquo;? Well,
it&rsquo;s what has been called &ldquo;the observing self.&rdquo;
It&rsquo;s me experiencing Being.

So waking up really is a matter of slowly, or quickly, abandoning all of
the effort to do, to become, to make definitions, to be creative, to
introduce a better concept into the world, to introduce a better idea,
to come up with a better mousetrap. As the saying is, &ldquo;Build
another better mousetrap and the world will beat a path to your
door.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Oh, that sounds good. And I hope they bring in money in their
wallet. After all, why would I want them to come to my door if it
wasn&rsquo;t gonna be a benefit to me because I came up with a better
mousetrap?&rdquo;

Well, I&rsquo;m sorry, but I&rsquo;m not going to tell you how to build
a better mousetrap. I&rsquo;m not going to help you become a better
definer of things, a better author, an authorizer of better things.
I&rsquo;m going to help you abandon the desire, the intent, and the
commitment to be personally, privately creative. Why? Because in the
absence of all that effort, you will find that you are inseparable from
Creation Itself. And you will wake up. You will see, because there will
not be in your range of vision all of the static of things and processes
of becoming that you have inserted by the use of what I&rsquo;m going to
call &ldquo;creative imagination.&rdquo;

In all deference to Mr. Disney, imagineering is not the key to the
future, at least not the future you want. Because when you abandon that,
and you let yourself abide in the void, in the emptiness&mdash;the
absence of thoughts and concepts and theories&mdash;suddenly Creation
that seems to be moving away from you so fast that all you can see is
What Creation Was, will be present with you in the Now. And you will be
inseparable from Creation&mdash;the action of &ldquo;Behold, I make all
things new&rdquo; that God Is Being. And you will experience yourself as
One with It, therefore Being Yourself the Movement of Creation and
recognizing It for What It Is, and the part you play in It for What It
Is. And suddenly All of Creation will be in the Now&mdash;not moving
away from you so that all you see is your best interpretation of What It
Was.

You&rsquo;ve got to start finding a connection between what I&rsquo;m
going to call &ldquo;Ultimate Truth&rdquo; and your everyday life,
because there isn&rsquo;t a separation between them, or a distinction
between them. And so it means, that instead of running your mind on
automatic where all that comes out are boilerplate responses to stimuli
that you receive in your day, you actually pay attention. You get off of
automatic pilot. And you don&rsquo;t bother to engage the boilerplate
responses, the knee-jerk reactions.

And because you&rsquo;re paying attention, you can respond to What Is
Really Going On&mdash;which will be pertinent, not impertinent. Not
impertinent. Your boilerplate, knee-jerk responses are impertinent.
They&rsquo;re not pertinent to What&rsquo;s Happening. They&rsquo;re
pertinent to a way of interacting with another so as not to have to pay
attention enough to know What&rsquo;s Really Going On so that your
responses can be pertinent. Now that&rsquo;s not really convoluted, and
you really do understand what I said.

You want to be able to be Real here and now. And in order to be Real,
you&rsquo;re going to have to be in touch with What&rsquo;s Going On.
You&rsquo;re going to have to be willing to be present with your
Brothers and Sisters, and neglect to let these mean-spirited, but ever
so delicious, negative thoughts cross your mind and lick your
experiences with ugliness that doesn&rsquo;t kill and only hurts a
little bit.

It&rsquo;s time to shift gears and stay shifted during the week.

Let&rsquo;s go to the book.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Could any part of God be WITHOUT His Love&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; could any part of All That Is, could any part of all that
you&rsquo;re experiencing be without His Love? . .

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and could any part of His Love be contained?
</div>

You know, boiled down to a nice, neat, little definition.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God is your heritage &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your Birthright, your Inheritance is from the Father. And your
Father is your Heritage.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; because His one gift is &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; not a capacity to love. Not exceptional beauty. Not a quick
wit. Not things that work well in social settings or get you ahead.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; His one gift is Himself.
</div>

His One Gift is What He Is.

Well, you know, the big question is, &ldquo;What is God?&rdquo; Right?
Well, you don&rsquo;t have to look any further than Yourself for the
Answer. But I must qualify that, because as long as you hold yourself as
separate, independent&mdash;an orphan, somebody on his or her
own&mdash;you cannot experience What You Really Are. And so, What The
Father Is will escape you.

But again, here&rsquo;s the Truth.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God is your heritage because His one gift is Himself. How can you give
except like Him, if you would know His gift to YOU?
</div>

So you must become like Him.

Well, how do you become like Him? Well, remember, we&rsquo;ve been
talking about the fact that your attention is God&rsquo;s Treasure. Your
attention is like a key. And you give your attention to a thousand
things a day. But when you give your attention to the Father by saying,
&ldquo;Father, or Holy Spirit, what is the Truth here? What is the
Ultimate Truth here? What does the Presence of God look like right here
where there seems to be a difficult situation to my
perception?&rdquo;&mdash;when you bring your attention to the Father,
it&rsquo;s like aligning the key with the keyhole, so that the key can
slip in.

It&rsquo;s the way you practice fitting in. You see, your normal,
everyday experience is never a matter of trying to fit in with some
Universal Order. It&rsquo;s always a matter of independent activity,
assertive activity&mdash;activity that declares your difference from
everyone else because, of course, you&rsquo;re unique. And I&rsquo;ve
said before, &ldquo;God never stops to repeat Himself&rdquo;&mdash;so
you can&rsquo;t be someone else, and someone else can&rsquo;t be you.
But Life isn&rsquo;t about demonstrating the difference. Life
isn&rsquo;t about asserting the difference. Life/Existence/Being is
about fitting in with Infinitely Individualized God&mdash;which is what
all of your Brothers and Sisters and All of Creation is.

And so, although God and the consideration of God seems not to be
particularly relevant to your daily life, you&rsquo;ve got to come to
the point of acknowledging that It has to be, that God has to be
relevant. And then become curious to see it, so that you align your
attention with the keyhole, so that you align your attention with the
Order of Things. Because that&rsquo;s the way you prime yourself for a
miracle&mdash;a sudden shift of perception that casts everything in a
new and truer Light, so that you behave relative to everything in a new
way that doesn&rsquo;t continue to reaffirm and reestablish a false
sense of you that keeps your Heritage just out of reach in the past.

Again.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
How can you give except like Him, if you would know His gift to YOU?
Give, then, without limit and without end, to learn how much HE has
given YOU.
</div>

You must become like Him in order to experience Him being What He Is
relative to you. You must learn to fit in with Reality.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your ability to ACCEPT Him depends on &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; your willingness to give as He gives.
</div>

Oh, I know, you all give a lot&mdash;some of you give kindness, some of
you give love, and some of you give hell to each other. You give
&lsquo;em hell, you know. For their own good, you give &lsquo;em hell.
Yeah, you make the gift. But that&rsquo;s not a Gift like God gives.

God gives/extends the acknowledgement of What You Are to you, in the
recognition that He is All There Is to you. God sees Himself in you, and
that&rsquo;s the Gift He gives to you. And you must learn to give like
Him.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your fatherhood and your Father ARE One.
</div>

You see? But, of course, as long as you&rsquo;re behind the Point of
Perfection and advancing toward it, well, you can&rsquo;t see how you
could possibly be One. Nor can you see it could be much benefit to you
in your struggle of becoming a successful orphan. And, of course, the
reason you can&rsquo;t see how it&rsquo;s relevant, is because
it&rsquo;s not relevant. You will never get God&rsquo;s help in proving
to you that you are actually not His Son or Daughter&mdash;that
you&rsquo;re actually an orphan.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your fatherhood and your Father ARE One.
</div>

You&rsquo;re already at the Point of Perfection.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God willed to create, and your will is His.
</div>

Because, again, there&rsquo;s no place to go out and get some
black-market will. If you&rsquo;ve got will, it&rsquo;s His. You might
be using it poorly, unlike Him, and causing yourself distress by it, but
nevertheless, your will is His.

That doesn&rsquo;t mean your will belongs to Him. It means that His Will
is the only Will you have available to you, and the nature of your will
is identical to the Father&rsquo;s. And it is what demonstrates your
Sonhood or Daughterhood, and returns you to your right Mind.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It follows, then, that YOU will to create, since your will follows from
His. And being an extension of His Will, yours must be the same.
</div>

You see, again, you&rsquo;re at the Point of Perfection and you must
understand yourself therefrom.

You must stop trying to use the Truth, or connect with God, so that you
can be less behind the Point of Perfection, or so that you can advance
toward it better and faster. You must stop trying to connect with the
Truth so that you will be a better prodigal son or daughter&mdash;or,
let&rsquo;s say, a prodigal son or daughter who is doing better at
coming Home&mdash;because the key emphasis is on &ldquo;being a
prodigal.&rdquo; And if you&rsquo;re going to say that you&rsquo;re not
already at Home, if you&rsquo;re going to believe that you&rsquo;re not
already at Home and that you&rsquo;re working to get Home, you will
maintain the lie, the deception, that covers up the fact that
you&rsquo;re already Home. And you will continue to wander &hellip;
lost.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; being an extension of His Will, yours must be the same.

Yet what you will you do not know.
</div>

In other words, what you truly will, you do not know.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is not strange when you realize that to deny is to &ldquo;NOT
know.&rdquo;
</div>

Oh, I know that you can&rsquo;t really ask this question seriously
anymore, but the ego would say, &ldquo;What do you mean, deny? Why,
I&rsquo;m not denying anything. I want to wake up. I want to know the
Truth. What do you mean?&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; to deny is to &ldquo;NOT know.&rdquo;
</div>

Well, see, you know enough now to know that the minute you make a
definition of your own about something, you&rsquo;ve denied God.
You&rsquo;ve said, &ldquo;I prefer my definition to What God Is Really
Being there.&rdquo; That&rsquo;s denial.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God&rsquo;s Will is that you are His Son.
</div>

I will add: Daughter or Offspring. Expression.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
By denying this you denied your OWN will, and therefore do NOT know what
it is.
</div>

Well, how do you deny that you are His Son or Daughter? By saying,
&ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;d rather see it myself. But, Father, this is what
I&rsquo;m going to call it, and the way I say it works is the way it
works.&rdquo; And in that, you are denying your own will&mdash;your
Divine Will&mdash;the only will that you have. And therefore, you do not
know what it is.

Now here&rsquo;s the key.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The reason you must ask what God&rsquo;s Will is in everything &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and I&rsquo;m going to interrupt and say, the reason you must
pay attention in every aspect of your day, the reason you must put forth
the effort to see What&rsquo;s There, and to respond to What&rsquo;s
There, instead of just providing knee-jerk responses.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is merely because It IS yours.

[Repeats sentence] The reason you must ask what God&rsquo;s Will is in
everything is merely because It IS yours.
</div>

The reason you must ask what God&rsquo;s Will is in everything is
because your asking that, brings the key into alignment with the
keyhole. It brings your attention into a different context than the
dog-eat-dog, competitive, everyday characteristics of your life, and
primes you to make a shift that allows you to operate at an entirely new
level, or different level.

The reason you must ask what God&rsquo;s Will is, not once in a while,
but in everything, is merely because It is yours. And if you&rsquo;re
not asking, if there&rsquo;s no curiosity, if there&rsquo;s no effort
put forth, you&rsquo;ll continue to be ignorant of the fact that It is
yours. And you&rsquo;ll continue to struggle, sin, get sick, and
die&mdash;or seem to.

For context, I&rsquo;ll read it again.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The reason you must ask what God&rsquo;s Will is in everything is merely
because It IS yours. You do not know what it is, but the Holy Spirit
remembers it FOR you.
</div>

And again, what is the Holy Spirit? Nothing more than your right Mind
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the Holy Spirit remembers it FOR you. Ask Him, therefore, what
God&rsquo;s Will is for you, and &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what? [laughing] The Holy Spirit won&rsquo;t tell you what
God&rsquo;s Will is for you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; He will tell you YOURS.
</div>

And in telling you what your True Will is, you will be learning what
God&rsquo;s Will is for you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Ask Him, therefore, what God&rsquo;s Will is for you, and He will tell
you YOURS.
</div>

Oooh. That&rsquo;s a little bit different from getting information,
isn&rsquo;t it? You know. &ldquo;Oh, well,&rdquo; the Holy Spirit says,
&ldquo;God&rsquo;s Will is for you to be prosperous. God&rsquo;s Will is
for you to do this. God&rsquo;s Will is for you to be that.&rdquo;
&ldquo;Oh, wow! This is interesting information. I&rsquo;m gonna go tell
Henry, or I&rsquo;m gonna go tell so-and-so. I&rsquo;m gonna spread this
news, this interesting information.&rdquo; But, no.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Ask Him, therefore, what God&rsquo;s Will is for you, and He will tell
you YOURS.
</div>

He will connect you with the direct experience of what your True Will
is. And that&rsquo;s an experience, not an idea. It&rsquo;s not
information.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It cannot be too often repeated that you do NOT know it.
</div>

Well, that&rsquo;s a bummer, isn&rsquo;t it?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It cannot be too often repeated &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; I mean you can afford to hear this over, and over, and over,
and over, and over, and over, and over, and over, and over, and over,
and over, and over again. Why? You could say, to wear down your poor use
of your will.

Because I&rsquo;ll tell you, the first time it&rsquo;s repeated that you
do not know it, you&rsquo;ll say, &ldquo;I sure as hell do!&rdquo; And
the second time it&rsquo;s repeated, you&rsquo;ll say, &ldquo;I do,
too.&rdquo; After all, that&rsquo;s what your life has been made up
of&mdash;is every day saying, you do know what your will is. And
you&rsquo;re busy telling everybody else what it is. And you&rsquo;re
busy making sure they understand it clearly so that they know who you
are, as opposed to the person sitting next to you, because you are
unique and different from the person next to you. And unless you let
everybody know what your uniqueness is by expressing what your will is,
they won&rsquo;t know.

But you never stop to ask why it is they wouldn&rsquo;t know. Well, they
wouldn&rsquo;t know because you don&rsquo;t know what your will is. And
on your own, you&rsquo;re nothing. On your own, you have no capacity to
accomplish anything.

So:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It cannot be too often repeated that you do NOT know &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and even though your ego thinks that is insulting and
discouraging and depressing, and even though your ego will speak up and
threaten ultimate suicide if the telling of the Truth isn&rsquo;t
stopped, the Truth must be told. The Truth must be told. The Truth must
be told, no matter what threats the ego comes up with; no matter how
much you attempt to justify that it&rsquo;s not helpful for you to know
that you do not know it.

The moment you&rsquo;re willing to consider the slight possibility that
you do not know what your will is, something will pop up in
you&mdash;curiosity. &ldquo;Well, if I don&rsquo;t know what it is, what
is it?&rdquo; And that&rsquo;s the first stage of your return to your
Sanity. That&rsquo;s the beginning of your healing. That&rsquo;s the
beginning of waking up.

So, you see, it&rsquo;s good news that it cannot be too often repeated
that you do not know it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Whenever what the Holy Spirit tells you appears to be coercive, it is
only because you do not RECOGNIZE your own will.
</div>

Does that make sense? The only reason the Holy Spirit could appear to be
coercive is that, when it is telling you unequivocally what your True
Will is, it requires you to abandon the use to which you&rsquo;ve been
putting your will and all the reasons you&rsquo;ve been putting it to
that use. And so, you&rsquo;re being asked by the Holy Spirit to do
something you don&rsquo;t want to do&mdash;not knowing that not doing
what the Holy Spirit encourages you to do, keeps you from being awake.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Whenever what the Holy Spirit tells you &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; whenever what &ldquo;that which is nothing more than your right
Mind&rdquo; tells you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; appears to be coercive, it is only because you do not RECOGNIZE
your own will.
</div>

You know, I hear the phrase now and then, &ldquo;Well, it&rsquo;s very
difficult for me to wrap my mind around that concept.&rdquo; Well, you
know what? I don&rsquo;t want you to wrap your mind around it. I
don&rsquo;t want you to do anything with it. It&rsquo;s not a piece of
information. It&rsquo;s the Truth, which, if it&rsquo;s simply accepted,
if you will simply abide with it, instead of manipulating it and trying
to make something out of it, and just letting it be What It Is, you will
once again be primed for a miracle&mdash;a sudden shift of perception.

A sudden shift of perception cannot occur when the new view is required
by you to fit through the sieve of your current perceptions.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The projection of the ego makes it appear as if God&rsquo;s Will is
OUTSIDE yourself, and therefore NOT yours. In this interpretation, it IS
possible for God&rsquo;s Will and yours to conflict.
</div>

[laughing] Of course, that&rsquo;s God&rsquo;s fault, right? I mean,
you&rsquo;re never going to say it&rsquo;s your fault that there&rsquo;s
a conflict. I mean, after all, you are standing up for your
independence. You&rsquo;re standing up for your God-given right to be
the unique individuality that you are.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God, then, may SEEM to demand of you what you do not want to give, and
thus deprive you of what you want. Would God, Who wants ONLY your will,
be capable of this?
</div>

God wants your will to be What It Is&mdash;His. God wants you to be
experiencing your will as What It Is.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your will is His Life, which He has given to you. Even in time &hellip;
</div>

This sensation of time that we&rsquo;ve been talking about &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you cannot live apart from Him, for sleep is not death. What He
created can sleep, but it CANNOT die. Immortality is His Will for His
Son, and His Son&rsquo;s will for HIMSELF.
</div>

Again, immortality is His Will for you and your will for yourself. See,
there&rsquo;s the Singularity again.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God&rsquo;s Son cannot will death for himself because His Father is
Life, and His Son is like Him. Creation is your will BECAUSE it is His.
</div>

So, you see, when you ask the Holy Spirit what the Father&rsquo;s Will
is, the Holy Spirit will disclose to you yours. So it&rsquo;s about you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You cannot be happy unless you do what you will truly&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; or I would say, well instead of poorly.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You cannot be happy unless you do what you will truly, and you cannot
change this because it is immutable.
</div>

Again, there&rsquo;s just no place you can go to get some black-market
will. It&rsquo;s immutable because it&rsquo;s All There Is. It&rsquo;s
the only Way It Is.

And the minute the idea that your will is the Father&rsquo;s, the minute
you begin to let that mean something, you&rsquo;re bringing your
attention (the key) into alignment with the keyhole. And the keyhole is
in the door, on the other side of which is your experience of your
Birthright, and You in your Sanity. And the door is nothing other than
the use of your will by which you make commitment to the definitions you
have made-up that you have interposed between you and Reality&mdash;the
Kingdom of Heaven&mdash;the Christ that your Brother is and your Sister
is.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is immutable by God&rsquo;s Will AND YOURS, for otherwise His Will
would not have been extended.
</div>

You see that? The Father has extended Himself by being you.

I&rsquo;m going to fudge a little bit, and you have to be careful not to
take this as something to repeat as a Truth&mdash;but God has extended
Himself by being you into existence. I use those last two words just to
clarify and to give a feeling for what I&rsquo;m saying. But God did not
be you into existence. God simply be&rsquo;s Himself right there where
you are, and It&rsquo;s called you. And you are as Eternal as God, as
timeless as God.

I&rsquo;m going to back up.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You cannot be happy unless you do what you will truly, and you cannot
change this because it is immutable. It is immutable by God&rsquo;s Will
AND YOURS, for otherwise His Will would not have been extended.
</div>

Because God was successful at extending His Will, His Will is yours.
Your will is His.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You are afraid to know God&rsquo;s Will because you believe it is NOT
yours.
</div>

Yeah. You not only believe that it is not yours, you&rsquo;re convicted
in the idea, convicted in the belief that it is not yours. You&rsquo;re
absolutely convinced, and you know that your existence depends upon the
absolute correctness of that belief. Why? Because His Will
wouldn&rsquo;t let you continue to suffer, get sick, die, experience
injury, stress, frustration, jealousy, hate, be involved in
wars&mdash;all in the name of perfecting the self that you have made-up
that you think you are.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You are afraid to know God&rsquo;s Will because you believe it is NOT
yours.
</div>

You believe it&rsquo;s not yours because you are real sure of what yours
is. And what you are being told His Will is, is not compatible with
yours. And you are dedicated to yours.

You&rsquo;re only ignorantly dedicated to it, though. And therefore,
Truth, presented in a way that gets your attention, will allow you to
see the ignorance of your stance in a way that doesn&rsquo;t judge you
and convict you, and thereby allows you to freely and without guilt,
change your mind and use your mind in a different way.

Nevertheless:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You are afraid to know God&rsquo;s Will because you believe it is NOT
yours. This belief is your whole sickness and your whole fear. Every
symptom of sickness and fear arises here because this is the belief that
makes you WANT not to know. Believing this, you hide in darkness,
denying that the Light is in you.
</div>

Except, you see, you don&rsquo;t think it&rsquo;s darkness. You think
it&rsquo;s just the way things are and that you must make the best of
it. And you all are doing the best you can of making the best of it.

But now I&rsquo;m coming along and saying there&rsquo;s a flaw in the
premise upon which you&rsquo;re using your mind. There&rsquo;s a flaw in
the premise in the way you&rsquo;re looking at life, at your day, at
your Brothers and Sisters. There&rsquo;s a fundamental misperception,
which if it&rsquo;s corrected, will transform your vision.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You are asked to trust the Holy Spirit only because He speaks for YOU.
</div>

He speaks for you. He speaks for you truly. He expresses your will to
you, for you, to help you recover What It Is, to help you rediscover
What You Are. The Holy Spirit&rsquo;s whole purpose is to uncover to
you&mdash;being nothing more than your right Mind&mdash;the Truth About
You so that you will no longer be insane.

And:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You are asked to trust the Holy Spirit only because He speaks for YOU.
He is the Voice for God, but never forget that God did not will to be
alone. He SHARES His Will with you; . .
</div>

&hellip; Shares His Will with you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; He does not thrust It UPON you.
</div>

And this is where you all must learn something in the way you deal with
each other. You&rsquo;re not here to thrust the Truth upon another. But
you are here to share it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Always remember that what He &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; God &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; gives He holds&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; oooh. &ldquo;You mean there&rsquo;s a tether? Oh, you mean like
I&rsquo;m a dog on a leash, and He gives me a little room to
play?&rdquo;

Well, yes, but He doesn&rsquo;t give you a little room to play. He gives
you Infinity to experience as your Presence. He gives you Infinity as
that which is available for you to experience entirely in the present,
in the now, with no limitations whatsoever.

But He does not give to you the right to think and to successfully act
out a different point of view than that.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Always remember that what He gives He holds, so that nothing He gives
can contradict Him.
</div>

Well, that makes it sound like God has an egomaniacal problem,
doesn&rsquo;t it? He holds.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; remember that what He gives He holds, so that nothing He gives
can contradict Him.
</div>

No. [laughing] God is Infinite and Singular. Pure, in other words. And
the Purity, the absolute Purity of God means that there cannot be one,
single, microscopic element present, not one tiniest thing present, that
is inconsistent with What God Is. And because of that, conflict,
polarities, confusion, chaos cannot exist&mdash;thank God&mdash;because
their absence is your Birthright, if you&rsquo;re willing to be
God&rsquo;s Son or Daughter.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You who share His Life &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; it doesn&rsquo;t say, &ldquo;You who are the recipient of His
capital &lsquo;L&rsquo; Life.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You who share His Life &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you, who are in forever relationship with Him, share His Life.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You who share His Life must share it to know it, for sharing IS knowing.
</div>

What you share, what you give, you get to keep. What you extend becomes
yours, because you only extend what you would be known by.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Blessed are you who learn that to hear the Will of your Father is to
know your OWN.
</div>

Again.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Blessed are you who learn that to hear the Will of your Father is to
know your OWN.
</div>

Is to come back into Singularity. Is to come out of the experience of
polarity and conflict.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For it is YOUR will to be like Him, Whose Will it is that it be so.
God&rsquo;s Will is that His Son be one&hellip;
</div>

Not split up. Not broken down into parts&mdash;good and bad. Not split
up into polarities. Not capable of confusion.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God&rsquo;s Will is that His Son be one, and united with Him in His
Oneness. That is why healing is the beginning of the recognition that
your will IS His.
</div>

Now, last week I spent quite a bit of time talking about healing, and
talking about the fact that there needs to be more expectation of the
experience of healing. If you&rsquo;re going to wake up, you cannot
afford to let one speck of doubt remain, or any theory that says,
&ldquo;Actual correction of disease, of a physical problem, actual
correction of injury doesn&rsquo;t have to happen, because it&rsquo;s
all in my mind. It&rsquo;s my mind that needs to change. And my mind can
be healed without my body or my world evidencing it.&rdquo; That can
only seem reasonable if you insist upon calling the world, &ldquo;an
illusion.&rdquo; It can only happen if you call Creation, &ldquo;an
illusion.&rdquo;

I promise you that the moment you abandon your definitions about
Creation, What Creation Really Is will become experienceable. You will
see it. Everyone will be able to see it. You will be able to photograph
it. You will be able to touch the Perfection where imperfection seemed
not to be. You cannot have a corrected mind without a corrected
experience.

Again, you cannot have a corrected mind without having a corrected
experience.

Now, I want to leave you with that tonight, because next week
we&rsquo;re starting a new section that says, that is entitled,
&ldquo;The Willingness For Healing.&rdquo;

And I want this to ring in your ears. I really do want you to write it
down. I want you to contemplate it. Don&rsquo;t think about it.
Don&rsquo;t reason it out. Don&rsquo;t turn it over and manipulate it,
like it&rsquo;s a thing. It&rsquo;s not a bit of information. It&rsquo;s
just the Truth. You cannot have a corrected mind without having a
corrected experience. And waking up is about having a corrected mind.

I love you all&mdash;everyone. And I look forward to being with you next
week.

[^1]: T10.1 Projection versus Extension

