---
title: Aug 7, 2005
ref: "T10.2 The Willingness for Healing"
alink: "/acim/text/10/chap1002/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who is joining us on the Internet.

It is my intent to help promote a shift in your attitudes, specifically
about healing. Whether you&rsquo;re a student of the Course or not, one
thing that, generally speaking, isn&rsquo;t associated in people&rsquo;s
minds about A Course In Miracles is healing. If you hear the words
&ldquo;Christian Science,&rdquo; immediately in your mind, you associate
that with healings, physical healings among others. If you&rsquo;re a
student of the Course, because of the title, &ldquo;A Course In
Miracles,&rdquo; you do immediately think of the word
&ldquo;miracles,&rdquo; but that&rsquo;s not even a traditional
definition since a miracle is a sudden shift of perception. Obviously,
then, a miracle is something that goes on in your mind. It is an
experience of enlightenment, an &ldquo;Aha!&rdquo;, where you see
something that you hadn&rsquo;t seen before that is more closely in
alignment with the Father&rsquo;s Point of View, and you&rsquo;re healed
of an ancient hatred, we&rsquo;ll say, or you&rsquo;re healed of
jealousy. But again these are, I&rsquo;m going to say, psychological.
They&rsquo;re mental.

And I&rsquo;m going to tell you something. The developing belief that A
Course In Miracles doesn&rsquo;t have anything to do with physical
healing is exactly what keeps you from experiencing physical healing.
Not only is the idea being expressed that it&rsquo;s not essential for
there to be a physical healing if there is a mental regeneration around
the issue embodied in the disease or the injury, it is becoming a strong
belief that physical healing should not be associated in your minds with
what A Course In Miracles is about. Wrong!

What I want to express very clearly tonight is stop blocking the
experience of healing, physically speaking, by adopting an attitude that
such a thing has no relevance to what A Course In Miracles is teaching.
You can block the experience of healing, but you cannot make it a fact
that physical healing has nothing to do with sudden shifts of
perception, miracles, and everything that the Course is illuminating.
Begin to embrace the expectation of actual improvement, physically
speaking, in your lives.

Let&rsquo;s go into the book.

If you&rsquo;re in the Sparkly Book, which is simply the Course as it
was finished, we&rsquo;ll say, by Bill Thetford, the subheading is:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*The Willingness for Healing*[^1]
</div>

And in the edited form of it, the First or Second Edition, it&rsquo;s
called:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*The Invitation to Healing*
</div>

When you hear that or read that, &ldquo;The Willingness,&rdquo; or,
&ldquo;The Invitation to Healing,&rdquo; are you thinking the invitation
to a changed mind? Well, let it be a little bit broader than that.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*The Willingness for Healing*
</div>

The willingness to experience the correction of whatever suggests or
embodies imperfection.

It starts out:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If sickness &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; sickness. Well, you don&rsquo;t usually think in terms of the
sickness of the mind. It means whooping cough, and measles, and polio,
and cancer, and a long list of things.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If sickness is separation, the will to heal and be healed is the first
step toward RECOGNIZING what you truly want.
</div>

&ldquo;Oh. Well, I don&rsquo;t want healing. I mean, so what if cancer
kills me. I know that I&rsquo;m eternal and I know that this body that
the cancer killed isn&rsquo;t real anyway.&rdquo; [small laugh]

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If sickness is separation, the will to heal &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in other words, be an agent for change &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; to &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; be healed &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; of what? Of cancer, and diphtheria, and whooping cough, and so
on &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip;is the first step toward RECOGNIZING what you truly want. Every
attack is a step away from this, and every healing thought brings it
closer.
</div>

Now I&rsquo;ve been making it very clear in the last few weeks that when
the word &ldquo;attack&rdquo; is used, it is with reference to your
providing a definition of something out of whole cloth, out of pure
imagination, and devoting yourself to your definition, rather than the
direct Experience of What That Thing Truly Is as God Is Being It right
there. And so, when you give preference to your definition, it is an
attack on God. It is a denial of a direct Experience of What God Is
Being there. That&rsquo;s why it&rsquo;s called &ldquo;an attack.&rdquo;

Mind you, it affects God not in the least that you&rsquo;ve shaken your
fist and denied Him. But it affects you, not just a little bit, but
absolutely, because your commitment to any definition you have made-up
about a thing, constitutes a withdrawal of your attention from What It
Is, and it puts you into a spinning, little, private place that nobody
else can get into and where you&rsquo;re all alone, isolated from What
Everything Is. It affects you absolutely.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Every attack &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in other words, every act of devotion to your definition of
What God Is Being there &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is a step away from this, and every healing thought &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; which means every willingness to abandon the definition
you&rsquo;ve had, with a desire to see What God Is Really Being there
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; brings it closer.
</div>

What? Brings what closer? Your recognition of what you truly want. You
truly want to be and fulfill What You Truly Are. That&rsquo;s what you
really want.

But right now you&rsquo;ve gotten caught up in a commitment to be what
you think you are, what you have made yourself up to be, and so
you&rsquo;re going after what you don&rsquo;t truly want. You&rsquo;re
going after what you are not Divinely Designed to be experiencing.

This makes it really rather simple, doesn&rsquo;t it? Sickness is the
result of your devotion to your imagination and your commitment to
definitions you have made-up about everything. And healing is when that
devotion shifts from your own made-up definitions to a desire to see
What God Is Being right there where you have given a different meaning.

What I want to affirm again is that when you begin to have a devotion to
seeing What God Is Being there, you will experience an influx of
inspiration and understanding provided from the level of Perfection,
provided by the Father. And the part that has been neglected is that you
will also experience the scales falling from your eyes, and you will see
and be able to touch and feel and experience What God Is Being there in
Perfectness, in Perfection. And as I said, you will be able to
photograph it. You will be able to see it. You will be able to feel it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Son of God &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning one who is not an orphan &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; HAS both Father &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; because God&rsquo;s Fatherhood isn&rsquo;t being denied
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and Son &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning the true realization of your, I&rsquo;m going to say in
quotes, &ldquo;position,&rdquo; because when you acknowledge your Father
as your Father, you are acknowledging your Sonship. So your Sonship is
no longer unavailable to you, shoved out of sight. And you&rsquo;re not
claiming to be something else&mdash;something you&rsquo;ve defined
yourself as.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Son of God HAS both Father and Son because he IS both Father and
Son.
</div>

God&rsquo;s Gift to you is Himself, is What He Is. You are the Father
embodied. And you are the Son because you are the Father embodied.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To unite having and being is only to unite your will with His, for He
wills you Himself. And &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and this is the part you&rsquo;re having to learn to be, to
play.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And you will yourself to Him &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; instead of to your definition of yourself &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you will yourself to Him because, in your perfect understanding
of Him, you KNOW there is but One Will.
</div>

You see, a Singularity. And you&rsquo;re not attempting to act at odds
with It any longer.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; on the other hand &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; when you attack any part of God and His Kingdom&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; by creating a definition of your own &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; your understanding is not perfect, and what you will is
therefore lost to you.
</div>

You see, what you will as a private, separate, independent authorizer,
has no result. Because you don&rsquo;t exist as that and can&rsquo;t
exist as that. And therefore, whatever you attempt to will yourself will
be lost to you, because there is nothing there. And that is why you
experience this intense, ongoing addiction to expressing your will
better and better&mdash;because you&rsquo;re not getting anywhere.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Healing thus becomes a lesson in UNDERSTANDING, and the more you
practice it, the better teacher AND LEARNER you become. If you have
denied truth&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; by having your own definitions &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; what better witnesses to its reality could you have than those
who have been healed by it?
</div>

Well, you could say, &ldquo;Well, you know, I know a lot of students of
the Course. I&rsquo;ve even attended some of the conferences where
people, students of the Course from all over the world, come and
I&rsquo;ve not heard anything about physical regeneration, healing,
instantaneous healings of physical problems. So where am I going to go
for a better witness?&rdquo; Well, it&rsquo;s a good question, and
it&rsquo;s a question that should be asked. And the answer is take the
hint that I&rsquo;m providing to you so that you might be the ones who
allow the experience of healing to occur because you are embracing it
within the context of what the Course is teaching, so that you might be
the inspiration to others.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you have denied truth, what better witnesses to its reality could you
have than those who have been healed by it? But be sure to count
yourself among them, for in your willingness to join them is YOUR
healing accomplished.
</div>

Now, you know what? I&rsquo;m going to invite students of the Course who
have experienced healings that they have refrained from talking
about&mdash;because it doesn&rsquo;t fit the current what? Definition of
A Course In Miracles&mdash;to start speaking up. Express, share the
healings that you have had. I don&rsquo;t care whether you get responses
that are negative that tell you that you&rsquo;re missing the point of
the Course if you think that a physical healing is what the Course is
about. Do it anyway because the inspiration afforded by, for lack of
better words, the testimonies of healing that are given, is sorely
needed so that the concept and attitude toward the Course may begin to
change quote &ldquo;in the world.&rdquo;

Now listen to this.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Every miracle which you accomplish &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; which is another way of saying, which you allow to happen,
which you allow to register with you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Every miracle which you accomplish speaks to you of the Fatherhood of
God.
</div>

And I&rsquo;m going to give this a little more depth. It speaks to you
of the fact that you have decided not to be an orphan anymore. When you
decide not to be an orphan anymore, you must renew your acquaintance
with the Father. Right? You must be willing to acknowledge that you have
a Source, that you are not the source of yourself, and you must let
yourself into active involvement with your Father as your Father, which
necessarily means that you are inviting communion with your Father
because you know you are His Son.

It&rsquo;s only as an orphan that you have created definitions that you
have committed yourself to, as though that is the sole purpose of your
being.

So:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Every miracle which you accomplish speaks to you of the Fatherhood of
God.
</div>

Instead of your autonomous authority.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Every healing thought which you accept, either from your brother or in
your own mind, teaches you &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; that you are God&rsquo;s Son.
</div>

You see? The realization of this, and the embrace of it, indicates that
you&rsquo;re coming back into your right Mind&mdash;a Sound Mind. A
Sound Mind is a Singular (not fragmented) Mind.

On the other hand:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In every hurtful thought you hold, wherever you perceive it, lies the
denial of God&rsquo;s Fatherhood and your Sonship.
</div>

Why? Because the only place, or the only frame of mind in which that can
happen, is when you are claiming to be an orphan. And that does not
speak of the Fatherhood of God, and it does not speak of your Sonship.
It doesn&rsquo;t speak of Who You Really Are.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And denial is as total as love.
</div>

When I said that your decision to see things by yourself governs your
experience absolutely, I was saying the same thing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; denial is as total as love. You cannot deny part of yourself,
because the remainder will seem to be unintegrated, and therefore
without meaning. And being without meaning to you, you will not
understand it. To deny meaning MUST be to fail to understand.
</div>

Now if you will pick a flower, or a paper cup, or some simple object in
your house, and take the time, as I&rsquo;ve talked about before, to be
quiet and present with it, to have an intimate moment with it&mdash;a
moment in which you are not projecting onto it, to the best of your
ability, any beliefs you currently hold about it, and you at the same
time desire to have revealed to you What It Divinely Is&mdash;you are
setting yourself up for the experience, the direct experience of What
That Thing Is&mdash;an Experience of Revelation.

If you let one simple thing be the thing you are willing to be
completely undefended with, and you begin to experience a heightened
awareness of it that goes beyond any of the definitions you&rsquo;ve
had, you will find that the, I&rsquo;m going to say, blossoming, growing
True Awareness of it will not be confined to that one thing. And even
though you weren&rsquo;t asking to have a True Experience of the couch
across the room, or the walls, or the ceiling, because you were just
letting yourself be intimate with one little thing, you will find that
just as denial is absolute, Love is absolute.

You don&rsquo;t have to somehow find a way to let the Meaning, the full
Meaning of Everything in [finger snap] all at once. Start with something
simple. Start with something you don&rsquo;t feel defended against,
because it will be the threshold, the spontaneous threshold for more.
So, it may seem like a simple and maybe inconsequential thing to start
with an object that you&rsquo;re familiar with, but it&rsquo;s a very
practical practice because you can&rsquo;t experience the intent of that
object to convey to you its Meaning, with a capital
&ldquo;M&rdquo;&mdash;What It Divinely Is&mdash;without at the same time
having [finger snap] this light bulb go on that says, &ldquo;Wow!
Everything else must be doing this, too. Everything around me must have
an intent to share What It Is with me.&rdquo; You see? And it will be
like dominoes falling, but all you have to attend to is one domino.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To deny meaning &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; by inserting in its place a definition you have made-up.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To deny meaning MUST be to fail to understand. You can heal only
yourself, for only God&rsquo;s Son NEEDS healing.
</div>

&ldquo;Oooh. Wait a minute. That must be a typographical error because
only little egos need healing. Right? Only God&rsquo;s Son needs
healing?&rdquo; Oooh. Yeah, because you&rsquo;re neither behind the
Point of Perfection, nor advancing toward it; you&rsquo;re at that Point
and must understand yourself therefrom.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; only God&rsquo;s Son &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; behaving like an orphan &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; NEEDS healing.
</div>

You see? And the way for God&rsquo;s Son to be healed is to abandon the
claim of orphanhood.

Of course, it goes a little deeper than that, doesn&rsquo;t it, because
you have to be willing to abandon the well-established right you think
you have to think on your own and define things on your own. And you
have to give up the right you think you have to be independent. And you
have to be willing to let in, share, embrace, not be alone.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You can heal only yourself, for only God&rsquo;s Son &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; or Daughter &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; NEEDS healing. He needs it because he does not understand
himself, and therefore knows not what he does. Having forgotten his
will, he does not know what he wants.

Healing &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; not just of your mind, but of the body &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is a sign that he &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Son of God &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; wants &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; TO MAKE WHOLE.
</div>

Not to further establish separation. Not to further establish
difference. Difference from what? Difference from What Is.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And this willingness opens &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what? &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; his OWN ears to the Voice of the Holy Spirit&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; which is nothing more than your right Mind &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; Whose message IS wholeness.
</div>

Because its intent is to return you to your right Mind, and to help you
see that which is useless which it is appropriate for you to abandon so
that you don&rsquo;t continue fragmenting your experience of your
Indivisible Mind. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; will enable you to go far beyond the healing YOU would
undertake, for beside your small willingness to make whole He will lay
His Own COMPLETE Will and make YOURS whole.
</div>

You see? All that&rsquo;s really required of you is a little
willingness&mdash;just to take a little flower, or a little thing,
knowing that if there&rsquo;s anything there at all, it has to be God
Presencing Himself there, fully as What He Is in His Fullness&mdash;and
then becoming undefended enough, meaning as definitionless as possible,
so that you can be receptive to the natural desire of that thing to
share its Meaning with you, because God&rsquo;s Will is in place in that
thing and God&rsquo;s Will is to share What He Is. So, when you have
that little willingness, it enables you to go far beyond the healing you
would undertake, far beyond the desire to see just this one little thing
in its True Meaning.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; for beside your small willingness to make whole He &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; he Holy Spirit&mdash;that which is nothing more than your right
Mind &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; will lay His Own COMPLETE Will and make YOURS whole. What can
the Son of God NOT accomplish with the Fatherhood of God in him? And yet
the invitation must come from you&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; &ldquo;Well, let&rsquo;s see. I&rsquo;ve got a dinner date
tonight. And after that, I&rsquo;ve got to take care of balancing the
books, and then it&rsquo;s going to be time to get a shower.

And then I&rsquo;ve got to get up early in the morning, and if I
don&rsquo;t get to bed early enough, I&rsquo;m a wreck the next day; I
can&rsquo;t function well. So I don&rsquo;t have time to make the
invitation tonight.&rdquo; [audience laughter]

Okay. Dream on. Sleep a little longer. Don&rsquo;t experience your True
Will, and don&rsquo;t experience your True Function. Oh, I agree with
you. All of these devotions to all of the things that you&rsquo;ve
made-up is far more important than your Sanity, far more important than
your Fulfillment.

&ldquo;Oh, but I am fulfilling myself. If I don&rsquo;t take care of
these things, I won&rsquo;t be a success, and people won&rsquo;t
recognize who I am, and they won&rsquo;t know what my will is.
I&rsquo;ve got to do all these things so what my will is will be
perfectly clear to everyone, and they will know that I am a worthwhile
and real presence. I don&rsquo;t have time to make an invitation.&rdquo;

And yet it says:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the invitation must come from you, for you have surely learned
that whom you invite as your guest WILL abide with you.
</div>

The company you&rsquo;re entertaining is the company you&rsquo;ve
invited.

Is the encounter a pleasant one? Are you blissful? Are you really happy?
Are you free of stress? Are you free of the threat of grief?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; whom you invite as your guest WILL abide with you.
</div>

So who are you going to send out invitations to?

Now:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit cannot speak to an unwelcoming host because He will NOT
BE HEARD.
</div>

Do you think the Holy Spirit grieves over this? No. Because the Holy
Spirit knows that you, even though you&rsquo;re entertaining a false
guest, aren&rsquo;t actually accomplishing anything, and knows that
because you are the Christ, you cannot dally indefinitely in ignorance
of Who You Are.

But you know what? I want each of you to understand that if the Holy
Spirit cannot speak to an unwelcoming host because He will not be heard,
and there&rsquo;s nothing He can do about it, and there&rsquo;s nothing
He needs to do about it, then you cannot speak to an unwelcoming Brother
or Sister because you will not be heard. And that&rsquo;s just the way
it is.

If you are not speaking to someone who desires to know the Truth, if you
are not speaking to someone who is already in a process of abandoning
his or her devotion to his commitment to his made-up sense of himself or
herself, then don&rsquo;t grieve over it. Find those who are stirring
from their dreams and imaginations. Does that constitute abandoning a
Brother? Not at all.

A Brother who cannot hear, because that Brother is so committed to his
or her definitions, has abandoned the Truth in favor of illusions.
But&mdash;and here&rsquo;s the important part&mdash;they cannot abandon
What They Truly Are. And so there is a point at which What They Truly
Are will speak up and say, &ldquo;Enough of this suffering. I wish to
see the Evidence of Love, and I wish to be the Evidence of Love, and I
rejoin my Father. I reach out to my Father. I reach out to the Truth
that my Father is.&rdquo; Only then will your extension and sharing of
the Truth be able to be heard.

Until that happens, stop trying. Stop trying to accomplish the
impossible. When you stop trying to do the impossible, resentment, that
would build up in you because you are not being able to be an agent for
change, will diminish. And you will find that in the Peace that follows,
you will be available when that one begins to stir and reach out and
say, &ldquo;Help,&rdquo; and mean, &ldquo;Help me abandon my
illusions,&rdquo; instead of &ldquo;Help me reinforce them.&rdquo;

Again, take this to heart.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit cannot speak to an unwelcoming host because He will NOT
BE HEARD. The Eternal Guest remains&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit remains &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; but His Voice grows faint in alien company. He needs your
protection, but only because your care is a sign that you WANT Him.
Think like Him ever so slightly, and the little spark becomes a blazing
light that fills your mind so that He becomes your ONLY Guest.
</div>

But that won&rsquo;t happen until the invitation is extended. And the
invitation won&rsquo;t be extended until you no longer find value in the
ethic, the grand ethic that you have made-up of attempting to
successfully establish yourself independent from any other Source.

Now:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Whenever you ask the ego to enter, you lessen His welcome.
</div>

Meaning the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s&mdash;your right Mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He will remain&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; it will remain &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; but YOU have allied yourself AGAINST Him.
</div>

And what have you allied yourself with? Imaginations! Imaginations which
you have adopted and have become beliefs&mdash;beliefs that you have
made commitment to.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Whatever journey you choose to take, He &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your right Mind. The Holy Spirit. The Eternal Guest &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; will go with you, waiting.
</div>

But not impatiently.

And if you have to wait on a Brother or Sister who absolutely refuses,
in spite of the great suffering they&rsquo;re experiencing, to hear what
would relieve them of their suffering, you must be with them, waiting.
You must be willing to wait.

When I say, &ldquo;Be with them,&rdquo; I mean be present in the world
with them, or be present in the Universal Brotherhood with them. I
don&rsquo;t mean be with them and live every bit of the misery
they&rsquo;re going through, because they want to tell you all about it
and keep you preoccupied with it because it&rsquo;s so important to
them. And it&rsquo;s important to them because it provides an incredible
challenge to absolutely prove their capability to overcome it and be
real, while being deluded.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You can safely trust His patience&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; for He cannot leave a part of God.
</div>

He can&rsquo;t leave you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet you need far more than patience. You will never rest &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you won&rsquo;t find peace. You won&rsquo;t find success at
demonstrating that you are so absolutely real that you are invulnerable.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You will never rest until you know your function AND FULFILL IT&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you see? Not just know it, but fulfill it. It&rsquo;s like not
just have a sudden shift of perception and say that you have had a
healing about cancer, but you have the realization and the cancer is
gone.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You will never rest until you know your function AND FULFILL IT&hellip;
</div>

Another way of saying that is: And endorse it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; for only in this can your will and your Father&rsquo;s be
wholly joined. To HAVE Him is to be LIKE Him, and He has given &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; Himself to you.
</div>

Not just capacities. Not just skills. He&rsquo;s given to you Himself,
given to you What He Is.

Where you are is God Presencing Himself. And when you dare to let Him be
your Source, then all of the Capacities of Creation, you might say, you
find to be yours&mdash;but not yours to exercise independent from Him.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You who have God MUST be as God, for HIS function became YOURS with His
gift.
</div>

His Gift of what? Of Himself.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Invite this knowledge back into your minds&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; hear that word again, &ldquo;invite&rdquo;? You must make the
invitation.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Invite this knowledge back into your minds, and let nothing that will
obscure it enter.
</div>

That means be present with things and don&rsquo;t let your definitions
get in the way. Be with every thing innocently, without projecting your
own imaginations upon it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Guest Whom God sent you &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; will teach you how to do this, if you but recognize the little
spark and are willing to LET IT GROW. YOUR willingness need not be
perfect because His IS. If you will merely offer Him a little place, He
will lighten it so much that you will gladly extend it. And by THIS
extending, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you will begin to remember creation.
</div>

Is there anything fuzzy about this, anything unclear about this?
It&rsquo;s utterly simple.

What makes it difficult is that it&rsquo;s much more exciting to cope
with complexity, so that you can get the hit of successfully overcoming
it and bringing it into order. And you&rsquo;re not hurting enough yet
at it, to say, &ldquo;Maybe there&rsquo;s another way to do this. Or
maybe I need to abandon doing this completely, and give my attention in
a new direction.&rdquo; But at least, it&rsquo;s put so simply here that
you cannot claim ignorance of it because it&rsquo;s too hard to
understand and you can&rsquo;t get your mind to wrap around it.
What&rsquo;s called for is a lot less, and I&rsquo;ve said this before,
is a lot less than anything you&rsquo;re currently engaged in.

The next sentence is an oft-quoted sentence from the Course.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Would you be hostage to the ego or host to God?
</div>

&ldquo;Well, you mean I need to invite Him into my house for a dinner
party, and host God?&rdquo; No.

God is not a thing that can come into your presence that you can be host
to. God is already All. And the only way you can be a host to God is to
have a simple&mdash;and I mean simple&mdash;a simple desire to see Him
in every thing you&rsquo;re looking at. You become host to God when you
wish to see Him in each and every thing&mdash;see Him in each and every
thing instead of the definitions you&rsquo;ve made-up. You also play
host to God by being willing to say you are His Son, His Daughter, His
Offspring, His Creation.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Would you be hostage to the ego or host to God? You will accept only
whom YOU invite.
</div>

If you&rsquo;re having a rough time, you&rsquo;ve invited the ego.
You&rsquo;ve invited the mentality that you think you are that you think
constitutes the clearest definition of your individuality that you have
so far been able to express in the world.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You will accept only whom YOU invite.
</div>

If you want to have a better experience, you better invite another
guest. And you only have two to choose from&mdash;God, or the voice for
fear&mdash;the ego, which is just the sense of yourself that you have
made-up and then committed yourself to.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You are free to determine who shall be your guest, and how long he shall
remain with you.
</div>

Nobody else is. You are! No one else is free to determine for you who
shall be your guest.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You are free to determine who shall be your guest, and how long he shall
remain with you. Yet this is not REAL freedom, for it still depends on
how you see it.
</div>

How you see it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit is THERE although He cannot help you without your
invitation, and the ego is nothing whether you invite it in or not. Real
freedom depends on welcoming REALITY, and of your guests only He is
real.
</div>

The Holy Spirit.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Know, then, Who abides with you merely by recognizing what is there
ALREADY&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; again, you&rsquo;re not behind the Point of Perfection or
advancing toward it; you&rsquo;re there already.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Know, then, Who abides with you merely by recognizing what is there
ALREADY, and do not be satisfied with imaginary comforters, for the
Comforter of God is in you.
</div>

And the Comforter of God that is in you is nothing more than your right
Mind.

And so, by letting It in, you are integrating yourself. You&rsquo;re not
letting in an alien. You&rsquo;re not letting in a stranger.
You&rsquo;re not letting in anything that can have any other effect than
integrating you, so that your experience of your Purpose and of What You
Are doesn&rsquo;t escape you any longer.

But I&rsquo;ll tell you something, you&rsquo;ve got to get sick and
tired of trying to do everything by yourself for the thrill of taking
the challenge and accomplishing what the challenge asks for.

Healing is of the Mind. But you know what? I&rsquo;ve said before, there
ain&rsquo;t no matter. Nothing, the flower, the table, the
trees&mdash;all of it is Mind. Every thing that you see are ideas in
Mind. And ideas are mental [clapping sound], but [clapping sounds] when
Mind touches Mind, [clapping sound] it makes sound. And when Mind, as a
bow, touches the strings on a viola, you can hear the sound of Mind. And
you get a bunch of instruments together, all of which are Mind impinging
on Mind in one form or another, and the larger Intent of Mind called
&ldquo;Beautiful Music,&rdquo; can be heard. It&rsquo;s all Mind.

And so when there is a healing in your mind, a sudden shift of
perception, a correction of a misperception&mdash;all of Mind is going
to reflect that back you. And so it&rsquo;s going to sound like a
violist making beautiful music, instead of squawking, dissonant, shrill,
difficult-to-listen-to sounds.

I love you all. And I look forward to being with you next week. Between
now and then, send out new invitations. Send out an invitation to the
only other Guest there is Who can show up. And be willing to let that
Guest in. Invite that Guest in. Receive that Guest warmly, thoughtfully,
kindly. And in every way, expect to see healing.

Okay.

[^1]: T10.2 The Willingness for Healing

