---
title: Aug 14, 2005
ref: "T10.3 From Darkness to Light"
alink: "/acim/text/10/chap1003/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who is joining us on the Internet.

If I were to say to you that you&rsquo;re nothing but a bunch of
conditioned responses, that there&rsquo;s basically nothing original
about any of you as you go through your day, you might be surprised. And
yet, for the most part this is true, and you don&rsquo;t realize it. And
it&rsquo;s in the realization of this fact that you prime the pump, as
it were, for a new experience, for an &ldquo;Aha!&rdquo;&mdash;for a
shift of perception.

Some of the conditioned responses were provided by those who educated
you. And, as a matter of fact, the majority of the conditioned responses
are things you taught yourself. Conditioned responses are behaviors. As
you grew up, some of you consciously practiced how to hold your hands,
how to sit. You practiced various kinds of laughs and finally decided on
the one that you liked best, and practiced that until you got it down.
You observed other people&mdash;how they stood, how they spoke firmly,
how they spoke gently&mdash;and tried out various of these different
forms of vocal expression until you adopted one, or endorsed one, and
made it yours.

But, you know, it&rsquo;s very important to understand that if you are
behaving on the basis of conditioned responses, if your behavior
relative to stimuli in the world are coming from adopted standards, then
your responses are never genuine responses to the stimuli going on
around you.

And what you may not realize is that this causes you to become a prime
target of manipulation. Anyone, who can recognize your adopted
preferences, can then present themselves to you or present ideas to you
that you will find harmonious with you and will cause you to have trust
in them and what they&rsquo;re presenting. And you thoughtlessly become
sheep following the leader.

Now, remember, if you are constantly measuring what&rsquo;s going on in
your experience against a memorized habit so that you might know the
safest and best response under the circumstances as you have learned to
define the best response, you&rsquo;re unconscious. You&rsquo;re just
coming from memory. And you&rsquo;re not available to give a real
response to the real stimuli that are happening. This means you cannot
be an effective presence. You can easily be herded into a corral, or an
oven, or a concentration camp, or blind obedience to an unscrupulous
leader of your country, or to the profit-seeking drug companies who do
studies to find out the typical responses to certain words amongst those
who will see their advertisements so they can pick the words that will
cause you to be the most defenseless and agree where disagreement is
called for.

Now why am I saying all this? I&rsquo;m saying it because waking up,
learning to hesitate before you come out with a knee-jerk response and
to listen within to the Holy Spirit, to that which is nothing more than
your right Mind, causes you to sidestep an unconscious response to your
environment and puts you in a position to see it freshly and behave in a
totally appropriate way in the moment that isn&rsquo;t a response of
habit that is irrelevant to the moment. Waking up is going to mean your
behavior is going to change. Your behavior is going to be appropriate to
the moment. And it might mean speaking in a way that you&rsquo;ve never
spoken before&mdash;with authority that you&rsquo;ve never spoken with
before, or with gentleness and compassion that you&rsquo;ve never spoken
with before.

Waking up is about being made new. It&rsquo;s about getting out of the
rut of the behavior patterns that you think are you. You smile and you
don&rsquo;t realize that the smile you&rsquo;re giving was something you
decided to use when you were three years old, and that the smile
you&rsquo;re giving has nothing to do with what is called for in the
moment you&rsquo;re in. There&rsquo;s nothing genuine about it because
it doesn&rsquo;t arise out of a real connectedness with What&rsquo;s
Really Going On in the moment.

Oh, you&rsquo;re a gentle person, a kind person, a thoughtful person,
and so you never confront anybody. You&rsquo;re never rude enough to
call them on their lies, or their deceit, or their bad behavior. And you
know that the meek are blessed, don&rsquo;t you? And so, you are meek,
and you get steamrollered, and you get mistreated, and you get used, and
you get abused. And you say, &ldquo;Well, nevertheless, the meek shall
inherit the earth. So I will not say &lsquo;No&rsquo; when
&lsquo;No&rsquo; needs to be said, because my concept is that
&lsquo;No&rsquo; never needs to be said. Only kind cooperation, or even
kind and gentle and not well-focused disagreement.&rdquo; You see? And
so you&rsquo;re never honest in the moment. You&rsquo;re never connected
in the moment. &ldquo;All we, like sheep, follow the leader.&rdquo; All
for the sake of not violating this self you think you are that you
didn&rsquo;t think you made-up, but you did&mdash;smile, by stance, by
verbal expression that you adopted as you grew up.

That&rsquo;s not your Birthright. Your Birthright is to be able to be
Real, to be present with What&rsquo;s Going On, seeing it without
referring it to your memory so that you are being present with What Is
Going On with innocent eyes, where you are not projecting onto What Is
Going On the requirement you have to always behave according to the
definition of yourself that you&rsquo;ve made-up which constitutes your
conditioned behavior, your untrue dishonest behavior.

You haven&rsquo;t thought of it as dishonest and you haven&rsquo;t
thought of it as untrue, because everybody does it and everybody
encourages everybody else to do it. And you&rsquo;ve been able to have a
generally pleasant experience as a result. But the fact is you have
another way to be that is available to you that I&rsquo;m encouraging
you to be open to, to open up to, let in, and express. That&rsquo;s what
the Course is inviting, eliciting from [small laugh] the depths of you
to the level of your Conscious Awareness.

There is a Place of Excellence in you, I&rsquo;ve said. There is an
Altar in the middle of you, the Course says. And there is a Voice, with
a capital &ldquo;V&rdquo;, in you that is the Voice for Truth.
It&rsquo;s called &ldquo;the Holy Spirit&rdquo;&mdash;which, to bring it
into really practical terms, is nothing more than your right Mind held
in trust while you dally with your memories and your conditioned
behaviors and responses. It&rsquo;s your Birthright to be experiencing
this Mind in you that is your right Mind. And it&rsquo;s your Birthright
not to be a puppet of your endorsements which you gave to a limited set
of behaviors that keep you locked into certain kinds of experiences.

So, when we&rsquo;ve been talking the last few weeks about healing and
the fact that it&rsquo;s not appropriate for you to anticipate that you
could have a changed perception without having a changed experience,
that means that, as well, you can&rsquo;t expect to have a changed
perception without having a changed behavior&mdash;a behavior that is a
real response to What Is Really Going On, rather than a conditioned
response to what you think is going on.

What the world needs today is more conscious people&mdash;citizens who
are more conscious than unconscious, who are not responding out of
habit, but out of connectedness with issues, with needs, and behaving
in ways that abolish the needs so that the suffering from the need
ceases. So not only will a withered arm no longer be withered and no
longer will broken teeth be broken, but you will be a dynamic real
presence being the evidence of change yourself, which, because the
change is arriving out of an experience of illumination or
enlightenment, is recognizable to everyone else as of value, which
causes them to be able to look at things freshly themselves and perhaps
break loose of their conditioned responses. You&rsquo;ve got to be the
first domino that falls by letting the change happen in you so that
your behavior is arising out of a Knowing, rather than a
pre-programmed, intellectual response that you&rsquo;d apply, that you
apply to everything of a similar nature out of habit. Are you getting
the idea or the feel?

Now you could look at what I&rsquo;ve said as though it were an
indictment on you. &ldquo;You&rsquo;re nothing but a bunch of
conditioned responses and you didn&rsquo;t know it, you ignorant
assholes.&rdquo; You could take it that way, but you don&rsquo;t need
to.

You can simply take the Truth of what I&rsquo;ve said as a
justification, if you will, for more actively pursuing what we&rsquo;ve
been talking about for months, which is to be willing to look at
everything with innocent eyes, to hesitate a moment before you confirm
within yourself that the way you&rsquo;re understanding things to be is
the way it is, so that in that moment of hesitation you might say,
&ldquo;Father, Holy Spirit, what&rsquo;s really going on here? I could
tell You, I could talk for a half an hour telling You exactly
what&rsquo;s going on here, because [small laugh] I sure as hell know
what&rsquo;s going on here and it ain&rsquo;t good. But, Holy Spirit, in
spite of what I think and believe and have conditioned myself to see,
what is really going on here and what is really needed? How do I need to
be to give evidence to the Truth; to be an agent for change that
uncovers the resolution of everything that I know ain&rsquo;t good?
I&rsquo;m willing to listen, rather than assert my conditioned
responses.&rdquo;

You see, in other words, it can be used as justification for becoming
curious and inquiring as to, &ldquo;What is the more that is here than
what I&rsquo;m seeing? What is the more of God that is going on here
that I am misinterpreting, and thereby seeing less of? Because I
don&rsquo;t want to get caught up in confirming the less that I&rsquo;m
seeing that doesn&rsquo;t represent What&rsquo;s Really Going On.&rdquo;
So all it is, is a justification for curiosity&mdash;which is a pleasant
thing to bring into play.

To know that you are basically a blob of conditioned responses, should
simply convey to you that there&rsquo;s a whole lot of good available to
you that you&rsquo;re not yet experiencing because you&rsquo;re not
looking at the Kingdom of Heaven through innocent eyes, when you could
be. You see? Don&rsquo;t you want to see the more of What Is Here than
what you&rsquo;re seeing? Of course you do! So give your attention to
that. It&rsquo;s an easy thing to do all day long.

And nobody will know you&rsquo;re doing it. You don&rsquo;t have to
publicize it. You don&rsquo;t have to carry a placard on your chest
saying what you&rsquo;re doing. You don&rsquo;t have to do it out loud
where everyone can hear it and wonder about you.

Curiosity, oh, curiosity is a blessing to utilize. It&rsquo;s a wonder
to have active in you. But you now know that this practice of curiosity
is significantly more than you thought it was because it&rsquo;s the way
out of your dream, your sleep.

You can be alert during the day&mdash;not like you&rsquo;re on an
internal witch-hunt searching out the bad in you&mdash;but you can be
alert during the day to notice when conditioned responses arise. Usually
it will come out as spontaneous defense. When you find yourself, without
thinking, spontaneously defending yourself, you may know that
you&rsquo;re asleep. You may know that you are relying upon conditioned
responses, which means that at the very moment you&rsquo;re doing that,
you can&rsquo;t possibly be aware of What Is Really Going On, and
therefore you can&rsquo;t possibly know what a Real response would be.
And you are blinded and unconscious&mdash;and that&rsquo;s not what you
want.

Why are you defended? Why do you spontaneously defend yourself? Because
of a definition you have of yourselves&mdash;a definition that you are
little, puny, basically inconsequential if you do not build up a façade
of strength with a strong voice, or a strong will, to save yourself from
your vulnerability.

But, you know, I cannot say it often enough. Each one of you, right now,
is the full Expression of God. Each one of you is right now the Ultimate
Christ believing you&rsquo;re not, and behaving as though your belief is
true. And you don&rsquo;t need to be doing that. You defend yourself
because you don&rsquo;t know what your Birthright is, and so you
don&rsquo;t let yourself feel your Birthright.

Why does the Course say that bad behavior is a call for Love instead of
just bad behavior? Because it serves to remind you that there&rsquo;s a
different response from your conditioned knee-jerk response of defense.
It reminds you that there&rsquo;s another way to respond&mdash;a way
that will heal instead of continuing to confirm the human condition that
you&rsquo;re all suffering from. And you want the way out, you say. You
want to be out of the human condition and the suffering. So you&rsquo;ve
got to do something different from reasserting your conditioning.

You&rsquo;ve got to be willing to acknowledge there is another way to
look at this. And then, don&rsquo;t try to figure out a new definition
of how to get out of it. Be still. Go within. Inquire within. Bring your
curiosity where? To your memory to see if there&rsquo;s any experience
you&rsquo;ve overlooked that might be helpful here that you
haven&rsquo;t brought into play yet? No. You bring your curiosity to
something beyond your memory banks&mdash;to the Holy Spirit, or the
Father, where you break the isolation, as I&rsquo;ve said so many times.
And invite and create a Conscious Experience of Joining that breaks the
isolation that causes you to rely upon your memory of your private
experience since you got your divorce from the Father. You see?

Then you have the opportunity to have your right Mind register with you
that knows its relationship with the Father, that knows that it&rsquo;s
the Son of the Father, but All That The Father Is has been gifted to the
Son as the Son. Then you come back into your Real Power, your Real
Substantiality, your Real Invulnerability that means you don&rsquo;t
have to have Divine Power to overcome the opposition. The Divine Power
that is yours, by virtue of your Invulnerability being gifted to you by
the Father because the Father Is Invulnerable, constitutes the
nonexistence of any experience of threat. And in the absence of the
experience of threat, any call for correction can be dealt with in a way
that promotes the correction smoothly, effortlessly, because
there&rsquo;s nothing but the love of clarity of the Knowledge of Truth
that finds expression in what you&rsquo;re saying or doing, where the
call for correction occurs. You see? And so, you do not make corrections
as a means of overcoming a potential threat to your well-being.

You are the agent for change or correction by virtue of understanding
that the behavior that is a call for correction is based upon something
that isn&rsquo;t even true. And you can speak from that point. If
another is behaving in a way that expresses a call for correction, it
doesn&rsquo;t change the fact that innately and fundamentally and
actually they are neither behind the Point of Perfection nor advancing
toward it either&mdash;that they are at that point and you do understand
them therefrom. And so you speak to them, knowing that. You give what
you know. And all that emanates from you is Singular Love&mdash;not love
held up like a cross against a vampire.

Let&rsquo;s go to the book.

The section is called:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*From Darkness to Light*[^1]

When you are weary, remember you have hurt yourself.
</div>

When you&rsquo;re weary.

Oh, when you&rsquo;re wearied by the dynamics of the human condition.
When you&rsquo;re wearied by the ongoing, excellently-thought-out effort
that you&rsquo;ve put forth to live a good life and to be
honest&mdash;and things go wrong. And it seems to you that your
intention to be intelligent and righteous and loving hasn&rsquo;t acted
like the cross that would be held up against a vampire&mdash;and the
vampire seems to be getting you. You see? When you are wearied by doing
what doesn&rsquo;t work.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; remember you have hurt yourself.
</div>

&ldquo;Now here&rsquo;s another one of those terrible indictments
against you, you sad jerks.&rdquo; You see? No. When you realize that
you have been attempting to do something that doesn&rsquo;t work, it
doesn&rsquo;t mean that you&rsquo;re stupid. It means that you&rsquo;re
at a point of realization where what? You can make a new choice!
You&rsquo;re at a threshold where change can occur. And you realize that
nobody else has to change&mdash;just you. Maybe you have to adopt a new
way of standing, or a new smile.

But in this case, you now know that in order to have a new behavior,
you&rsquo;ve got to have a new experience, a new conscious awareness,
that isn&rsquo;t arising out of your memory banks. In other words, you
realize that you&rsquo;ve hurt yourself by trying to be separate from
the Father, trying to be an orphan, and trying to be successful at it,
instead of saying, &ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;m willing to have a Father
again, so that I might know Who I Am, so that I might have my Real
Identity back, instead of the one I made-up for myself which isn&rsquo;t
getting me anywhere at all.&rdquo; You see? That&rsquo;s all it means.
You have hurt yourself by doing something that doesn&rsquo;t work, and
there&rsquo;s another way to do it and here&rsquo;s what it is. And then
explore the doing of it. You see? It&rsquo;s good news.

But if you think that it&rsquo;s someone else that&rsquo;s hurt you or
circumstances that have hurt you, or the human condition that
you&rsquo;ve been submerged in, you poor divine soul, and that you just
have to tolerate till you die out of it&mdash;when you know that nothing
else is responsible for it, then you know the power you have available
to you to change the situation. If it&rsquo;s all because you have been
doing what won&rsquo;t work, then all you have to do is start doing what
does work. And nothing in this Universe&mdash;no human condition, no
mortal existence, no hard-hearted individual&mdash;can keep you from it.
You&rsquo;re sovereign.

You need to know that you&rsquo;re sovereign. But as long as you think
that someone else has hurt you instead of that you have hurt yourself,
you won&rsquo;t find that place of sovereignty, that, I&rsquo;m going to
call it that &ldquo;right of decision&rdquo; that abides with you that
supercedes everything else. So, you have the right of decision to go
through your day expressing curiosity to see the more of God that is
present than what you&rsquo;re currently seeing. And nobody can stop you
from doing it. And nobody has kept you from seeing the more that is
present except you saying, &ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;d rather see it
myself. I&rsquo;d rather define it myself and become a successful
orphan.&rdquo; It&rsquo;s that simple.

Again.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you are weary&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and most of you are weary all the time, to one degree or
another, of the anxiety of your lonely stance.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you are weary, remember you have hurt yourself. Your Comforter will
rest you, but YOU cannot.
</div>

Well, what is your Comforter? What is the Comforter? The Holy Spirit.
Not something afar off. That which is nothing more than your right Mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your Comforter will rest you, but YOU &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; as an orphan &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; cannot.
</div>

You, unjoined with your right Mind, cannot give yourself rest.

And in effect, that&rsquo;s what an orphan tries to do&mdash;give
himself rest from the dissonance inherent in trying to be what he is
not&mdash;an orphan. On your own, you try to give yourself rest from
suffering, not realizing that the suffering is simply the unavoidable
experience which occurs when you try to be what you&rsquo;re
not&mdash;an orphan.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your Comforter will rest you, but YOU cannot. You do not know
HOW&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you as an orphan &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; for if you did you could never have grown weary.
</div>

The occasion for weariness wouldn&rsquo;t have happened because you
wouldn&rsquo;t have been trying to do the impossible.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Unless you have hurt yourselves you could never suffer in ANY way, for
that is not God&rsquo;s Will for His Son.
</div>

It&rsquo;s just not in the program. It&rsquo;s not in the Way Things
Work.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Pain is not of Him, for He knows no attack and His peace surrounds you
silently.
</div>

Why would it surround you silently? Because, in His Peace, there is no
awareness of conflict, and no need for arrogant, loud, strenuous
self-assertion against the enemy.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God is very quiet, for there is no conflict in Him. Conflict is the root
of all evil, for being blind it does not see whom it attacks.
</div>

(Just a moment. This is me, Paul. There&rsquo;s a word that&rsquo;s
escaping me. Just a moment.)

Another way of saying this is that confusion, the absence of order, dis-
or non-integrated conscious awareness is the root of all evil.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; for being blind &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; having no cohesiveness to it &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; it does not see whom it attacks.
</div>

I will tell you that it doesn&rsquo;t even know that it&rsquo;s
attacking. And yet, because everything that comes forth from it is
defense, it does constitute a lack of recognition of the benign-ness of
that which it is afraid of.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; it does not see whom it attacks. Yet it ALWAYS attacks &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the only thing that&rsquo;s there &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the Son of God, and the Son of God is YOU.
</div>

God is Singular, therefore Mind is Singular, therefore Conscious
Awareness is Singular&mdash;not confused, not polarized, not
disintegrated. This, therefore, is What You Are. And it is the Nature of
your Being. And this is what it is your Birthright to be experiencing.
And this is what you need to be curious to experience and let in.

Your reliance upon your memory always attacks you by distracting you
from a truly Conscious Awareness of What Is Going On and engaging you in
defending yourself against it. You go through your day in states of
defense, but the only thing truly confronting you is Reality, with a
capital &ldquo;R&rdquo;&mdash;the Kingdom of Heaven, the Infinite
Presence of God called Creation.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God&rsquo;s Son is indeed in need of comfort, for he knows not what he
does, believing his will is not his own. The Kingdom is his, and yet he
wanders homelessly. At home in God &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in other words, at the Point of Perfection&mdash;where you are.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
At home in God he is lonely, and amid all his brothers he is friendless.
</div>

But [small laugh] is it any surprise? You are at Home amongst your
Brothers&mdash;the Divine Ones that are God In Expression&mdash;and you
don&rsquo;t see it. Why? Because [small laugh] you know who that bastard
really is, don&rsquo;t you? And you know what a sleaze she is. And you
know how undependable he is. And your definition rules supreme. You see?

Now, let me ask you something. If, based on your definition, you have
treated these people according to those definitions, do you think
they&rsquo;re going to be happy? And when they express unhappiness at
the way you are perceiving them, distressed at the way you&rsquo;re
seeing them, you&rsquo;re going to say, &ldquo;See, I told you so. She
doesn&rsquo;t have her peace. And, boy, when she loses her temper, loses
her cool, she&rsquo;s lost all ability to speak intelligently or
rationally. She has provided me confirmation of my definition of
her.&rdquo; You see? You have promoted it, and then you blame your
Brother for a natural response of distress at your not seeing them for
Who They Are.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
At home in God he &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; God&rsquo;s Son or Daughter &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is lonely, and amid all his brothers he is friendless.
</div>

[laugh] &ldquo;I can&rsquo;t let him be my friend. I can&rsquo;t dare to
get close to him. Never can tell what&rsquo;ll happen.&rdquo;

So you&rsquo;ve said, &ldquo;I won&rsquo;t be his friend.&rdquo; You
see? &ldquo;I won&rsquo;t see anything worthwhile in him. Even if
he&rsquo;s not behaving badly, human nature isn&rsquo;t dependable, so
therefore I still won&rsquo;t get close to him.&rdquo;

And you say, &ldquo;I will not be a friend to him.&rdquo; You make that
decision, and then you tuck it away, asserting in your mind that
it&rsquo;s simple common sense and not a decision you have consciously
made to exclude him, whether right or wrong.

And then you will say [in a weepy voice], &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t have any
friends. I am friendless.&rdquo;

Now back to a little Sanity.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Would God LET this be real if He did not will to be alone Himself?
</div>

Well, the answer is, &ldquo;No.&rdquo; If He willed to be alone Himself,
then he would let this be Real. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Would God LET this be real if He did not will to be alone Himself? And
if your will is His, it cannot be true of you BECAUSE it is not true of
Him.
</div>

God is All-inclusive. And the keyword is &ldquo;inclusive.&rdquo; All is
God. And exclusiveness is an impossible concept in that which is
Singularly Infinite.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Oh, my children, if you knew what God wills for you your joy would be
complete!
</div>

Now, this doesn&rsquo;t mean, &ldquo;Oh, my sweet dears, if you but
knew, you poor things, what God Wills for you, your Joy would be
complete.&rdquo; It&rsquo;s not a putdown.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; if you knew what God wills for you your joy would be complete!
</div>

So, bring a little curiosity into play to see the more of What God Wills
For You right here and right now, because right here and right now in
what you are so sure is nothing more than a human condition, is the
Kingdom of Heaven and you, the Christ&mdash;the Christ Presence that is
God Presencing Himself right there as the Fullness of You. Bring a
little curiosity into play, desiring to have a fuller experience of that
fact. And then expect to have a shift of perception and a shift of
behavior&mdash;a spontaneous impetus to disregard memory and conditioned
responses.

Because the freedom to be present with What Is Real, knowing that It Is
Real, allows you to be involved in what I&rsquo;m going to call
&ldquo;an interplay of Real Things&rdquo;&mdash;a spontaneous, unguarded
ability to dance with Infinity&mdash;all of It&mdash;at once.

But you&rsquo;re very afraid to let too many things go on because you
won&rsquo;t be able to keep control of everything to make sure that
you&rsquo;re safe. And so you keep yourself locked up in tininess
because you don&rsquo;t know What You Are. You are the capacity to dance
with the Infinite, to be in constant interplay with all of It, without a
need for control to make sure you&rsquo;re safe.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Oh, my children, if you knew what God wills for you your joy would be
complete!
</div>

So desire to know What God&rsquo;s Will For You is so that your Joy may
be complete.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And &hellip;
</div>

Look at this.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; what He &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; God &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; wills HAS happened, for it was ALWAYS true.
</div>

Again, you&rsquo;re neither behind the Point of Perfection, nor
advancing toward it.

Is this getting boring and monotonous? It&rsquo;s so simple. And the
more often you hear it, the more often you&rsquo;re reminded of it, the
more you will be inclined to be in the moment minus the conditioned
responses, minus memory, minus definitions you made-up in the past when
you thought you were an orphan, so that you are present with the Light
on in your mind that lets you see the Light on in the human condition
that reveals to you that it&rsquo;s really the Kingdom of Heaven in all
Its Glory.

I&rsquo;m going to change the words here, so it sounds less
condescending.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[Raj read it differently] Oh, my brothers, if you know what God Wills
for you, your Joy will be complete!
</div>

So, give your attention there. Give your curiosity there.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And what He wills HAS happened&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; it&rsquo;s not off in the future for you. It&rsquo;s already
happened. It&rsquo;s already the fact. It&rsquo;s something you cannot
actually escape, even though you can ignore it conscientiously.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; for it was ALWAYS true.

When the light comes &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and we are talking from, about moving from, darkness to
Light&mdash;darkness meaning the unconsciousness of conditioned
responses and made-up definitions of yourself&mdash;moving from that
into the unguarded, unpretentious willingness to stand fluidly and
flexibly in the middle of the Movement of Life, not resisting any of It
and not trying to be in charge of any of It so that What Is Really Going
On might register with you, cause a sudden shift of perception, an
&ldquo;Aha!&rdquo; that lets you recognize the Divinity, the Innate
Worth and Value of each and every thing, so that you can respond to It
on the basis of What It Really Is, at the same time being aware that
you&mdash;what is responding to What It Really Is, is in his or her
right Mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When the light comes and you have said, &ldquo;God&rsquo;s Will is
mine,&rdquo;
</div>

&hellip; instead of claiming my will is mine. Unjoined me has a will of
my own that is mine.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you will see such beauty that you will KNOW it is not of you.
</div>

Meaning the orphan.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Out of your joy you will create beauty in His Name&hellip;
</div>

Does that mean you&rsquo;re going to be a walking advertisement for God?
Is that what it means, that you&rsquo;re going to &ldquo;create beauty
in His Name&rdquo;? No, it means that your going to create Beauty
[whispering] without leaving Him out of it&mdash;[normal voice] without
leaving God out of it by choosing to be the sole authorizer of it. You
see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Out of your joy you will create beauty in His Name&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; it&rsquo;s natural for you to know that the Beauty you express
is Divine. Is it Divine because of some private Divine Authority you
have? No. It&rsquo;s Divine because you are the Presence of God in
action.

You have a Father. You have a Relationship. You&rsquo;re not alone. You
have a Source. And so you will create Beauty without leaving your Source
out of it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; for YOUR joy could no more be contained than His. The bleak
little world will vanish into nothingness&hellip;
</div>

[small laugh] In other words, the world you made-up in place of What It
Really Was, the definitions of it that you made-up, will vanish into
nothingness.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and your heart will be so filled with joy that it will leap
into Heaven and into the Presence of God.
</div>

In other words, you will spontaneously embrace all without requiring any
of it to be the end result of some decision or definition you have
privately made. You will let yourself and everything else be the
Presence of God. You will be willing to find God in everything. You will
be willing to find Good in everything.

And if you have trouble with the meaning of the word &ldquo;God,&rdquo;
because you cannot fathom what God would be, or what God would look
like, remember the word &ldquo;Good.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[Raj read it differently] Your heart will be so filled with joy that it
will leap into Heaven and into the Presence of Good.
</div>

And it will not harbor a right to define anything as bad, and then cope
with it.

To see the Presence of Good and to be the Presence of Good will be the
whole ball of wax for you. It will be the alpha and the omega. And you
will devote yourself to it wholly, because that&rsquo;s where the
suffering ends, and that&rsquo;s where the Joy is felt.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I cannot tell you what this will be like, for your hearts are not ready.
Yet I CAN tell you, and remind you often, that what God wills for
Himself He wills for YOU, and what He wills for you IS yours.
</div>

Already!

And it cannot be taken away from you, and it has not been taken from
you.

You ignore it by giving preference to your lesser definitions, your more
limited definitions and concepts, and your attempt to have conditioned
responses that clearly identify you-as-you-and-not-anyone-else behaviors
that are peculiarly different from the behaviors that are peculiarly
embodied in your Brother. You see?

You see, when we&rsquo;re talking about healing, when we&rsquo;re
talking about illumination and transformation, we&rsquo;re talking
about not only having your mind transformed by virtue of sudden shifts
of perception, but we&rsquo;re also talking about your letting your
behavior arise from a new place&mdash;of your behavior not arising from
your conditioned responses, but arising out of the Clarity of the Truth
that you&rsquo;re now knowing because you cared enough to inquire about
What The Truth Is of a thing. And you&rsquo;re willing to have
innocent, intimate moments with it, with a thing, so that you might
experience the more of What Is There than what your current, limited
concepts allow you to see.

You know, it&rsquo;s very easy when you move along in your life and you
have a major &ldquo;Aha!&rdquo;&mdash;an epiphany&mdash;and nothing is
the same after that, and you say to yourself, &ldquo;Wow, I must have
really been doing something right to have arrived at that experience of
an epiphany. Therefore, there&rsquo;s nothing about the way I have been
being prior to it that I need to call into question.&rdquo; No. It
wasn&rsquo;t everything you knew before that led you, because of its
great correctness, to a point of an epiphany. I will tell you, an
epiphany happens because there was a weakness in your commitment to your
behavior before the epiphany happened, or you arrived at a point where
the way things were, because of the way you were behaving and thinking,
got absolutely untenable for you, and you had a moment of openness to
something better.

So just because you find yourself experiencing a transformed awareness
of What Everything Is, well, it doesn&rsquo;t mean that everything about
the way you saw yourself before can be left as it is without being
challenged. You must be alert. You must care enough to watch for the
spontaneous habit to re-establish old conditioned thinking.

You don&rsquo;t want to re-establish old conditioned thinking. You want
to establish your capacity to stand innocently in the moment
you&rsquo;re in, innocently paying attention to what is going on around
you so that you may see it as you have never seen it before. Why? So
that you can behave in a way you&rsquo;ve never behaved before.

I love you all. And I love your willingness, even if you think
you&rsquo;re not doing too well. And I love you for your capacity to
hear what I am Meaning, which you are, even though your rational mind
says, &ldquo;I can&rsquo;t quite wrap my mind around it.&rdquo;
That&rsquo;s the orphan talking. And you&rsquo;re not the
orphans&mdash;not any of you.

I look forward to being with you next week.

[^1]: T10.3 From Darkness to Light

