---
title: Aug 21, 2005
ref: "T10.3 From Darkness to Light"
alink: "/acim/text/10/chap1003/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who is joining us on the Internet.

You know, always at the end of a get-together, I share with you that I
love you. I&rsquo;m going to begin today by saying I love you.

You get caught up in your everyday activities, and you forget that you
are loved by a Love that sees you as You Truly Are, that recognizes What
You Really Are, in spite of whatever definition of yourself you&rsquo;re
employing at any given moment. And this Love that you are loved by is
Divine, loving that, I&rsquo;m going to say, in you which is Divine. But
it isn&rsquo;t that there is somewhere within you some little thing that
is Divine that&rsquo;s being loved. This Divine Love loves you in your
Totality which is Divine right now, no matter how convinced you are
otherwise.

This Love is transformational, which means to whatever degree
you&rsquo;re willing to let it in, you&rsquo;re on the threshold of
transformation, of healing, of redemption, of coming back into your
right Mind and seeing yourself and everything As It Truly Is. In other
words, you could say, there is always present, with its attention fully
on you, an active capital &ldquo;A&rdquo; Agent for Change. It
isn&rsquo;t just passively loving you. It isn&rsquo;t just embracing you
in a warm pink glow that can allow you to feel comfortable and at peace
in spite of the circumstances you&rsquo;re in the middle of. It&rsquo;s
a Love which embraces you actively in a way that I can only describe as
a persistent nudge to get your attention, to prompt a sudden shift of
perception, a miracle, to uncover to you perfection of all sorts,
including physical perfection that you hadn&rsquo;t been experiencing
fully.

This Divine Love has only your best interest at heart, and it therefore
stands ever ready and ever actively encouraging the transformation of
your mind and your experience for the better. And it never employs
elements unlike Itself to try and get your attention. In other words, it
never creates adverse conditions in order to get your attention.

Love is a Singularity in which there is nothing unlike Itself. Now this
Love that is loving you is the Father. But that in you which is nothing
more than your right Mind, called the Holy Spirit, is the Presence of
that Love as you truly loving you in your present sense of yourself with
the same intent&mdash;to nudge you into [finger snap] an
&ldquo;Aha!&rdquo;&mdash;a light bulb going on, a clarification that
undoes a definition or a belief that you have employed that has kept you
in the dark, kept you from experiencing your Birthright, kept you from
seeing everything around you as the Kingdom of Heaven.

It&rsquo;s one thing to know that God, Divine Universal Love, loves you
actively and Its Love is transformational in effect. It&rsquo;s another
thing to know that there is something that you can recognize as even
closer to home&mdash;[small laugh] closer to you, in other
words&mdash;and that is your Real Self&mdash;the Presence of God as God
Is Expressing Himself right where you are as what you call you. And this
Something Else, that is right there where you are, is in fact
You&mdash;unadulterated You&mdash;unbiased, untorqued You. Your Sane
Self, which has gone nowhere and has been ever-present with you even
though you have been ignoring it, is loving you with the intent to
motivate a sudden shift of perception wherever it has the opportunity.
Everything about you, divinely speaking, is on your side, with the
intent to reintegrate your mind so that you might experience your
undivided Wholeness, your unfragmented Wholeness.

Your very Being loves you. What does that mean? It means that your Being
loves the you, you think you are at the moment&mdash;the tiny, more
limited being that you think you are and that you insist on being
because you think there is no other alternative. And so, your Being
loves you so that you might be illuminated, so that you might experience
illumination that causes the separation between your Being and your
present sense of yourself to diminish, whereby you abandon your present
sense of yourself and any sense of yourself for That Which You Really
Are and always have been. Which means, you could say, a reuniting with
your capital &ldquo;B&rdquo; Being&mdash;integration occurring whereby
you no longer feel loved by your Essential Being, but you as the
Essential Being That You Are, are now engaged in extending the Love That
You Are because that&rsquo;s your Function&mdash;where there&rsquo;s
Unity and Harmony&mdash;the absence of fragmentation, the absence of
conflict.

I want you to understand how completely you are enveloped by
transformational Love. And you know what? I want you to be aware, to be
conscious of the idea at least, even if you&rsquo;re not having the
experience, that everyone you know is likewise so loved, no matter how
they are seeing themselves, and no matter how you might be seeing them.
You don&rsquo;t have to believe their sense of being unloved. You
don&rsquo;t have to believe their confidence that things can&rsquo;t get
better. You don&rsquo;t have to believe their confidence that
they&rsquo;re right when they&rsquo;re wrong. And you don&rsquo;t have
to believe that anything&mdash;any situation, any circumstance&mdash;is
hopeless.

The question is, at the bottom line, &ldquo;How are you going to use
your mind?&rdquo; Are you going to use it to confirm your current
beliefs and definitions? Are you going to use it to confirm your
Brother&rsquo;s beliefs and definitions? Or are you going to use it to
be curious and inquire of the Love that loves you, inquire of the Holy
Spirit or God, &ldquo;What is the Truth here that You find so utterly
Lovable? What is the Reality here of me and my Brothers and my world
that You find so utterly Lovable? I want a taste of that.&rdquo; When
that becomes your prayer, you&rsquo;re turning toward the Light;
you&rsquo;re turning toward the Illumination that uncovers What Is Real
about you and your world and your Brother.

But when you turn toward and give your attention to your
dearly-developed definitions and concepts, and rely upon them, or when
you turn to your Brother to find out from your Brother what his
definitions and beloved concepts are, you are turning your back on the
Source of Illumination. And as a matter of experience, you all know that
the more [you are] enmeshed in self-awareness&mdash;tiny, personal
self-awareness&mdash;and your private, personal rights to be a creator,
to be an authorizer, you become more and more uncomfortable. The height
or depth of selfishness is always an experience of suffering. It is the
opposite of an Experience of Illumination.

So when we&rsquo;re talking about, &ldquo;From Darkness to Light,&rdquo;
we&rsquo;re talking about shifting from your orphanhood, shifting from
your privacy, shifting from a tiny creature capable of authorizing
things, to a State of Joining, of reaching out&mdash;of letting there be
something else on your mind beside your definition of yourself, your
definitions of everything else, and your great commitment to them, which
constitutes a state of profound loneliness that is the exact opposite of
the Nature of your Being, which is All-inclusive.

The more you burrow down into a sense of tininess, the darker your
experience becomes, the darker your mind becomes. Your mind becomes
filled with calls for justice. Your mind becomes involved in seeing
injustices. Your mind becomes involved with noticing all the awful
things that are going on. And then, in this funny, little arrogance of
this private state of mind, you say, &ldquo;Oh, I want to bring the
light to all of this awful darkness, to all of the awfulness that is
going on.&rdquo; You see? &ldquo;Because if I can do that, I will make
me great.&rdquo; And you do this, all of you do this, in one way or
another, because you believe that the awfulness itself is real and the
you that is seeing it is real, not realizing that the awfulness of it is
a result of your adamant choice to be private&mdash;unjoined with this
Infinite Love that is loving you. You see?

&ldquo;Oh, I would rather express my own magnanimous love in the
presence of the awfulness of the world and heal it.&rdquo; You see?
&ldquo;No thank You, Father. I don&rsquo;t need to plug into the circuit
of Infinite Divine Love That You Are. I&rsquo;ve got what it takes and
I&rsquo;m gonna prove it.&rdquo; You see? Which is nothing but a further
confirmation, or attempt to confirm, that you can actually exist
separate from God, separate from your Source.

The way out of darkness is not you overcoming the darkness you see in
the world and in your experience. It&rsquo;s a matter of you turning
around, turning your back on privacy, and beginning to embrace, first of
all, the Holy Spirit, and asking for the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s
Perspective&mdash;the Perspective of that which is nothing more than
your right Mind&mdash;which is a way of asking for God&rsquo;s
Perspective, because it is God&rsquo;s Perspective that your right Mind
holds in trust for you until you&rsquo;re willing to turn around and
embrace again, extend your attention to something more than just you and
what you want and what you believe, and what you are convinced is true
that you must convince everyone else is true so that you might get group
consensus and achieve a position, thereby, of some substance or some
reality.

So the way out of darkness into Light is the way out of privacy into
embrace&mdash;embrace that invites in the fuller experience of Reality
that it is yours to be experiencing. And every single moment of every
day provides you with the opportunity to see the more of What Is Really
There than what you&rsquo;re seeing.

How many of you let new things happen this week? How many of you allowed
your week to proceed outside of the box you normally live in? How many
of you let new behavior happen? How many of you let things happen that
went beyond your traditional conditioned responses to your life? How
many of you let new behavior happen? This is a way of expressing
curiosity in your world. This is a way of breaking down your defenses
against the more That Is There than what you&rsquo;re experiencing.
It&rsquo;s not just all ethereal, mental stuff.

Let&rsquo;s go to the book.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The way is not hard&hellip;[^1]
</div>

&hellip; and I will say, the way of redemption is not hard &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; but it IS very different. Yours is the way of pain, of which
God knows nothing. THAT way is hard indeed, and very lonely. Fear and
grief are your guests, and they go with you and abide with you on the
way. But the dark journey is not the way of God&rsquo;s Son.
</div>

That means it is not the way that&rsquo;s inherent in you.

It doesn&rsquo;t mean it is not the way of Jesus, God&rsquo;s
Son&mdash;some other Christ. You see? The dark journey is not the way of
you&mdash;of God&rsquo;s Son or Daughter&mdash;you. That&rsquo;s not
your Birthright.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Walk in light and do not see the dark companions, for they are not fit
companions for the Son of God, who was created OF Light and IN Light.
</div>

You see? And the Light that you have never stepped out of.

Who are the dark companions? Fear and grief, but also jealousy and
self-righteousness and self-protection and anger&mdash;all of which
present themselves to you as thoughts which occupy your mind, and which
you ruminate about and get pleasure from. &ldquo;Oh, tell me,
doesn&rsquo;t the call for justice feel good when it arises?&rdquo; You
comfort yourself with dark companions, as strange as it might sound. You
use these dark companions to make you feel justified, to make you feel
good.

But, it says here:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Walk in light &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; make another choice &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and do not see the dark companions, for they are not fit
companions for the Son of God&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; do not see the dark companions.

You are an executive with an office downtown. And you have appointments
scheduled for the next day, and you look down and you see, &ldquo;Oh, I
see a couple of dark companions here that are scheduled. Mmm. I&rsquo;m
not going to see them tomorrow.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; do not see the dark companions&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you see, it isn&rsquo;t just don&rsquo;t stop seeing them with
your eyes. It means stop letting them in. Stop letting them have
appointments. Stop giving them audience. Cancel their appointments. Do
not see them. Refuse to see them anymore.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Walk in light and do not see the dark companions, for they are not fit
companions for the Son of God, who was created OF Light and IN Light.
The Great Light &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; well &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; Great Light &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; whew &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; Great Light &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you know what &ldquo;the Great Light&rdquo; is? The Great Light
is Living Love. Love is illumination. Love is illuminated. Love is
Light, as well as affection and compassion, and an inordinate
appreciation of Everything That&rsquo;s Real&mdash;an appreciation that
is extended and embraces everything unequivocally, without reservation,
and blesses everything it falls upon.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Great Light always surrounds you and shines out FROM you.
</div>

It&rsquo;s happening at this instant. And the Radiance of It I can see.
The Radiance of It every Awakened Brother can see.

It&rsquo;s shining at this moment and it is illuminating the
room&mdash;the space that you are in. And I&rsquo;ll tell you also that
the walls of the room and the floors of the rooms are all emanating
Light as well, illuminating you, just as the Light of you is
illuminating them. It&rsquo;s a Relationship of Light.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Great Light always surrounds you and shines out FROM you. How can
you see the dark companions in a Light such as this? If you see THEM it
is only because you are DENYING the Light.
</div>

It only means that you&rsquo;ve turned your back from What Is Actually
True in order to give preference to definitions you&rsquo;ve made-up,
because the making up of definitions, and the securing of them, is the
way you think you&rsquo;re going to achieve autonomous reality.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you see THEM &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the dark companions &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; it is only because you are DENYING the Light. But deny THEM
instead&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; cancel their appointments &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; deny THEM instead, for the Light is here and the way is clear.
</div>

Meaning unobstructed.

What&rsquo;s being described here is the Reality that you are in at this
very moment. And it&rsquo;s the experience to be curious to have. And
it&rsquo;s an experience to be curious to have ongoingly.

You must practice ongoing curiosity. You must be willing not to lapse
from being curious. &ldquo;Oh, well that sounds like a lot of
work.&rdquo; Well, it might, and it might take some conscientious effort
on your part, but if it&rsquo;s the means of undoing illusion,
it&rsquo;s worth doing. You must do it more persistently. Because your
habit of relying upon your definitions and the meanings you&rsquo;re
giving everything, and then ruminating over the way things aren&rsquo;t
working out and exactly why they&rsquo;re not working out, instead of
doing that, you need to conscientiously do something else&mdash;the
opposite of it. You must break the habit by actually, conscientiously,
doing something else.

So, no matter what you&rsquo;re confronted with tomorrow, this evening,
let there be an ever-present curiosity to see God there, to see the more
of What God Is Being, instead of relying upon your best definitions and
judgments, and mulling them over and over and over and over in your
mind, preoccupying yourself, by your devotion to them, from having the
slightest chance of an &ldquo;Aha!&rdquo; occurring.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God hides nothing from His Son, even though His Son would hide himself.
</div>

In other words, hide Who He Really Is, in favor of being the orphan who
successfully proves that one doesn&rsquo;t have to have a Father or a
Mother in order to exist and be real.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet the Son of God &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; cannot hide his glory&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; cannot hide your glory &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; for God wills him &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; to be glorious, and gave him &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the Light that shines in him.
</div>

In you.

You see, you&rsquo;re neither behind the Point of Perfection, nor
advancing toward it; you are at that Point and must understand yourself
therefrom. And you will not understand yourself therefrom &hellip; you
will not understand yourself therefrom if you don&rsquo;t persist in
letting your Ultimacy be your vantage point in the present. You will
never escape your current habit of seeing less there where you are than
is there.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You will never lose your way for God leads you. When you wander you but
undertake a journey which is not real. The dark companions, the dark
way, are all illusions. Turn toward the Light, for the little spark in
you is part of a Light so great that It can sweep you out of all
darkness forever.
</div>

And as I said in the beginning, Its Intent is to sweep you out of
darkness. It is constantly nudging you, it is constantly pressuring you,
causing you not to be totally at peace in your commitment to your
definitions that aren&rsquo;t real, so that you might be reminded, and
we might say, unconsciously, that there is another way to look at
things, so that you might employ enough curiosity to abandon your
bondage.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Turn toward the Light, for the little spark in you is part of a Light
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; part of a Love &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; so great that It can sweep you out of all darkness forever. For
your Father IS your Creator, and you ARE like Him.
</div>

You see? There we brought everything back to the Truth. You have a
Father and you are a Son.

And your healing, your Awakening, depends upon your willingness to
embrace that fact and let yourself be a Son, who is the Son because you
are acknowledging your Father, and not claiming orphanhood and not
claiming a right to see things a little bit differently from God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Children of Light cannot abide in darkness, for darkness is not in
them.
</div>

Well, you know what that means? It means you aren&rsquo;t abiding in
darkness. You aren&rsquo;t abiding in quote &ldquo;the human
condition&rdquo; unquote. You are right now abiding in Light, but
you&rsquo;re imagining otherwise. And you&rsquo;re believing your
imagination. You&rsquo;re abiding in your imagination. And you&rsquo;re
constantly trying to confirm that your imagination is true.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Children of Light &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; cannot abide in darkness, for darkness is not in them. Do not
be deceived by the dark comforters&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you know, the call for justice and self-righteousness.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Do not be deceived by the dark comforters, and never let them enter the
mind of God&rsquo;s Son&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; cancel their appointments &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; for they have no place in His temple.
</div>

They have no place in your right Mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you are tempted to deny Him&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; God &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; remember that there ARE no other gods that you can place before
Him&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; like I&rsquo;ve said before, there simply aren&rsquo;t any
black-market gods you can go out and get and put before God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you are tempted to deny Him, remember that there ARE no other gods
that you can place before Him, and accept His Will for you in peace.
</div>

Give up the struggle to do something impossible. In other words, to try
to attempt to find Peace when you&rsquo;re denying your very own
Birthright. When you&rsquo;re denying What You Are, it is impossible to
find or secure Peace in that conscious intent.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you are tempted to deny Him, remember that there ARE no other gods
that you can place before Him, and accept His Will for you in peace.
</div>

Without any further struggle.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For you CANNOT accept it otherwise.

Only God&rsquo;s Comforter CAN comfort you. In the quiet of His temple,
He waits to give you the peace that is yours.
</div>

This Comforter, as it says in the Bible, is the Holy Spirit. And what is
the Holy Spirit? Nothing more than your right Mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Only God&rsquo;s Comforter &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your right Mind &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; CAN comfort you. In the quiet of His temple&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Comforter&rsquo;s Temple. The Place of Excellence in you
where the Altar in you is.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; He waits &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your Self waits &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; to give you the peace that is yours.
</div>

It is yours, but you have to come to a point where you&rsquo;re willing
to abandon the addiction to conflict and the overcoming of it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
GIVE His peace that you may enter the temple and find it waiting for
you.
</div>

Well, the best way you can give His Peace, the Comforter&rsquo;s Peace,
is to stop thinking. And one of the best means of abandoning thinking is
a practice of meditation.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; He waits to give you the peace that is yours. GIVE His peace
that you may enter the temple and find it waiting for you. But be holy
in the Presence of God&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in other words, shut up and be still and stop being in charge.
Stop asserting yourself. Stop being an assertive presence that gains a
sense of itself out of the loudness of its assertions.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; be holy in the Presence of God&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your right Mind &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; or you will not know that you are there. For what is unlike God
cannot enter His Mind because it was not His Thought, and therefore does
not belong to Him. And YOUR minds must be as pure as His, if you would
know what belongs to YOU.
</div>

Oh, that might sound like too big a challenge. How can your mind be as
pure as His? Well, the moment there is silence in your mind, your mind
is perfectly pure. The only impurities present in your mind are your own
made-up ideas, your own self-created thoughts, and the thinking you
engage in about them. So you don&rsquo;t have to purify your thoughts so
that you&rsquo;re having pure thoughts all the time. The moment there is
silence in your mind, your mind is pure.

This is important.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Guard carefully His temple, for He Himself dwells there, and abides in
peace.
</div>

Where is this Temple? Well, it&rsquo;s where the Altar is, isn&rsquo;t
it? Where is the Altar? In you. What is the Altar? The place where the
Voice for Truth awaits you&mdash;the Holy Spirit, which is nothing more
than your right Mind. Go into that place where What You Divinely Are
awaits you. And go to It without carrying with you the baggage and
garbage of all your attempts to be something of yourself. Go there in
silence, just simple silence, coupled with attentiveness, which is
another word for curiosity.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You cannot enter God&rsquo;s Presence with the dark companions beside
you, but you also cannot enter alone.

ALL your brothers must enter WITH you, for until you have accepted them
YOU cannot enter.
</div>

Well, here&rsquo;s a simple way to make sense out of this. As with Paul,
go into the Altar for some reason outside yourself. Go in on your
Brother&rsquo;s behalf. Go in because your Brothers have questions. Go
in because your Brothers have needs. Go in because your Brothers seem to
be suffering, and you don&rsquo;t want them to suffer. Go in because you
want to know What The Truth Is so that you will stop joining with your
Brothers in confirming their dilemmas. Care enough about your Brothers
that you take them with you into the Presence of the Altar, so that you
take them with you into the Presence of what is nothing more than your
right Mind. Let your reason for going there not be self-seeking.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
ALL your brothers must enter WITH you, for until you have accepted them
YOU cannot enter.
</div>

In other words, you cannot approach your right Mind for selfish reasons,
for private reasons.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; until you have accepted them YOU cannot enter. For you cannot
understand Wholeness unless YOU are whole, and no part of the Son can be
excluded if he would know the Wholeness of his Father.
</div>

You see? Your reason for wanting to know the Truth is so that All of
Creation can be embraced in your illuminated vision, so that you might
have the opportunity to bless everything with your willingness to
acknowledge God there. You can&rsquo;t do it to find the capacity to
acknowledge God in you and you alone, so that you might be able to know
the winning lottery numbers, and get the house of your dreams, and not
be dependent on anybody else, and not be a burden on society, and all of
the good reasons you can think of for being independently successful.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In your mind you can accept the whole Sonship, and bless it with the
Light your Father gave it. Then you will be worthy to dwell in the
temple &hellip;
</div>

To not just go there, but to stay there.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; WITH Him because &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; it is YOUR will not to be alone.
</div>

That is the crux of your whole dilemma. And waking up is the abandonment
of the devotion to being alone. To be privately successful, to be
privately on your own real, that is your devotion.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God blessed His Son forever.
</div>

Because God is a Singularity and there is nothing unlike God in a
Singularity, because the Omnipresence of God is Pure, Whatever God Is,
is forever, because there&rsquo;s nothing to interrupt It. It is Eternal
and Infinite simultaneously.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you will bless him in time, you will BE in eternity.
</div>

You see? I keep saying the only thing confronting you is the Kingdom of
Heaven. And therefore, rather than waiting until after you die, or after
you have perfected your soul, to look for the experience of Reality, you
need to do it right here, right now, because right here and right now is
where you are experiencing the Kingdom of Heaven through a glass darkly.

It says here:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you will bless him in time, you will BE in eternity.
</div>

If you will look for God in the world, you will be in the Kingdom of
Heaven. Your vision will be transformed so that the Kingdom of Heaven,
that is the only thing in your face, might suddenly be seen right where
your limited and unreal definitions have stood in the way of your direct
perception, your direct experience of Reality, the Kingdom of Heaven.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you will bless him &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; God&rsquo;s Son &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; in time&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in other words, right here, right now, with whatever
definitions your Brother is employing about himself &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you will BE in eternity.
</div>

A shift will occur, right here, right now.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Time cannot separate you from God if you use it on BEHALF of the
eternal.
</div>

You all used the world and its resources to gain position and money and
security and authority and domination, without any sense of What The
World Really Is and that your Real Function, relative to it, is not the
exploitation of it, but of using it as your opportunity to acknowledge
God in every aspect of it and glorify God, rather than using it to try
to glorify yourself, which will always constitute
depletion&mdash;depletion of you&mdash;the minimizing of you into a
nothing, an orphan, that can&rsquo;t actually accomplish anything at
all&mdash;and the Kingdom of Heaven as the world and universe governed
by material laws developing according to physical &hellip;

(PAUL: Just a moment.)

&hellip; physical laws of development that arise out of fundamental
conflict, and engage laws such as the survival of the fittest, which is
nothing more than competition.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Time cannot separate you from God if you use it on BEHALF of the
eternal.
</div>

Use your mind on behalf of the Eternal by being curious to see
What&rsquo;s Really Going On, instead of using it for your own selfish
purposes. Use your vision to find and acknowledge God, instead of using
it as a means of determining whether you&rsquo;re safe, and if you
aren&rsquo;t safe, to best determine what the best defense will be.
Start using your eyes to find God. Start using your ears to hear the
Truth so that you might express and embody Truth, instead of all of your
pre-determined, pre-recorded habits that keep you from being Truly
Conscious of What Is Going On as you employ them for self-defense,
instead of making the Gift and extending the Light, the Love, with a
capital &ldquo;L&rdquo;, That You Are.

From darkness to Light is what we&rsquo;re talking about. From
selfishness to embrace is what we&rsquo;re talking about. From privacy
to inclusion is what we&rsquo;re talking about.

I hope that your week is full of out-of-the-box experiences that you
didn&rsquo;t plan, but you gave permission to happen.

And again, I will tell you, I love you all. And I look forward to being
with you next week.

[^1]: T10.3 From Darkness to Light

