---
title: Aug 28, 2005
ref: "T10.4 The Inheritance of God's Son"
alink: "/acim/text/10/chap1004/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who is joining us on the Internet.

We&rsquo;ll go right into the book tonight. The section heading is:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*The Inheritance of God&rsquo;s Son*[^1]

Never forget that the Sonship is your salvation for the Sonship is your
Soul.
</div>

Interesting thought &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the Sonship is your salvation &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; it&rsquo;s your salvation because it&rsquo;s the means by which
you actively and conscientiously abandon your self-imposed isolation.
The only way you can break your isolation is by joining with something,
and all you have to join with is the Sonship (the Brotherhood) and
Creation. When you join with your Brothers and Creation, you are joining
with God. That&rsquo;s all there is there for you to join with. And
that&rsquo;s all there is there for you to isolate yourself from. And so
the Sonship is your salvation because they are what is there for you to
join with.

You say, &ldquo;Well, God is there for me to join with.&rdquo;
[laughing] Ah, yes, but the ego has a twisted sense of justice and a
twisted sense of how things work. And it would suggest that all you have
to do is join with God and to heck with your Brothers and Sisters. Let
them join with God on their own. But it cannot work that way because God
is the Movement of Creation, God is the Movement of Life&mdash;and Life
is constituted of the Brotherhood of All That God Has Expressed of
Himself and Embodied of Himself in everything.

&ldquo;Well, can&rsquo;t I just, can&rsquo;t I approach this from the
standpoint of nature, and go out and find a nice cave to be in, and
meditate on the trees and on nature and become one with it?&rdquo; No.
That isn&rsquo;t sufficient, because at some point you have to
reestablish your Self as part of the Brotherhood.

The moment you say, &ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;m willing to acknowledge You
as my Source. I&rsquo;m willing to acknowledge You as my Father,&rdquo;
and you have the resulting experience of knowing that you&rsquo;re His
Son and not an independent, autonomous agent, you also have put yourself
in the position of recognizing that if you are God&rsquo;s Son, if you
are God&rsquo;s Daughter, so are all of the other individuals you know,
and therefore they are&mdash;and Paul cannot stand this word&mdash;they
are siblings. You are their Brother; they are your Brothers and Sisters.
They are your Family. So if you&rsquo;re going to accept God and realize
your Sonship, you&rsquo;re going to have to accept the fact that
everyone else you know is also part of the Sonship and is therefore your
Brother or Sister&mdash;Family.

And you&rsquo;ve got to embrace them. Why wouldn&rsquo;t you? Well, it
isn&rsquo;t your habit to embrace them. You have defined them as
different things. &ldquo;They can&rsquo;t be &hellip; my salvation
can&rsquo;t lie in them! They are my competitors,&rdquo; or, &ldquo;They
are my enemies,&rdquo; or, [laughing] &ldquo;They go to a different
church than I do.&rdquo; You see? &ldquo;They are different from me. I
am different from them. I&rsquo;m different from them in a very special
way&rdquo;[small laugh]&mdash;and that act of separation, that act of
rejection of them as not just like you. But, that they are part of the
Infinitude of your Being, that they are essential to you in order for
What You Divinely Are to be complete, you&rsquo;re going to have to
embrace them, not just tolerate them. You&rsquo;re going to have to
embrace them. You&rsquo;re going to have to abandon the labels
you&rsquo;ve given to them&mdash;the labels that you&rsquo;ve given to
them in order to set yourself up as something specially different from
them.

You&rsquo;re going to have to take them into the status of Sonship that
you are letting yourself back into. And you are going to have to come to
the realization that since you have the same Father, the same
Father/Mother/God as your Source, they are just like you, and
they&rsquo;re inseparable from you in the fullest meaning of the word
&ldquo;Family.&rdquo; And you will have to take them Home with you. You
will have to bring them along with you in your increasingly clear
experience of yourself as the Christ, the direct Expression of God,
right now.

And what you&rsquo;re willing to give away, you get to keep. If you
can&rsquo;t keep something that you haven&rsquo;t given away, that means
there has to be someone to give it away to. And whoever it is that you
can give it away to will be your salvation. It&rsquo;s just the way it
works. And that&rsquo;s why the Sonship is your salvation&mdash;because
they are there as the agent, you might say, for your experiencing the
full meaning of the fact that you&rsquo;re not an orphan, that you have
a Father. They are the means for your breaking the isolation.

It&rsquo;s not enough to just let God in, as though God were one thing
amongst all of the Brotherhood. All of the Brotherhood is God In Motion,
including you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Never forget that the Sonship is your salvation for the Sonship is your
Soul. As God&rsquo;s creation it is yours, and belonging to you, it is
His.
</div>

Meaning God&rsquo;s.

Nothing that God has created is different or separate or apart from you.
It&rsquo;s part of the Wholeness of You.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and belonging to you&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; coupled with your conscious realization that it belongs to you
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; it is His.
</div>

God&rsquo;s.

Your realization that you are the Son of God, in so many words, makes
God, God&mdash;confirms God, glorifies God, because it&rsquo;s no longer
leaving God out of the equation.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your Soul does not need salvation, but your mind needs to learn what
salvation IS. You are not saved FROM anything, but you are saved FOR
glory.
</div>

For all good things. For being the Presence that uninhibitedly glorifies
God, because there&rsquo;s nothing in you denying God, nothing in you
claiming a place of equality with God while separate from God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Glory is your inheritance, given your Soul by its Creator that you might
EXTEND it.
</div>

You see? That&rsquo;s why the Sonship is your salvation, because it is
what is available to you to extend it to.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet if you hate part of your own Soul &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you know, your enemy, your competitor&mdash;your hateful,
selfish this, that, or the other one in your life.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet if you hate part of your own Soul ALL your understanding is lost,
because you are looking on what God created as YOURSELF &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; because every single one of your Brothers and Sisters is some
part of the Infinitude of your Being.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; without love. And since what He created is part of Him, you are
denying Him His place in His own altar.
</div>

The competitor you see, the selfish child you see, the dominating
mother-in-law you see, the unscrupulous father you see, is a thing you
have determined in your own mind as those things, and which you hold in
front of God, covering God up to you. And so you&rsquo;re denying the
Presence of God there and giving adamant preference to your definition.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And since what He created is part of Him, you are denying Him His place
in His own altar.

Could you try to make God homeless and know that YOU are at home?
</div>

You see? It all lies in how you are relating to your Brother.

You say, &ldquo;Well, you know, I love A Course In Miracles. And I love
to sit out on my patio and read it during the afternoon, or I love to
sit in my bed in the morning before anybody is up and have my quiet time
with the wonderful and beautiful and comforting Truths that I read. But
then I have to become involved with somebody else, I have to relate to
somebody else, and that&rsquo;s where all the trouble starts.&rdquo;

Yeah. That&rsquo;s because your Brother is your salvation, but
you&rsquo;re using your Brother or your Sister for a purpose other than
your salvation. You&rsquo;re using your Brother or your Sister to
conform your own arrogant importance, your special differentness.

You&rsquo;re using your Brother to compete with. &ldquo;He is my
competitor.&rdquo; Well, if he is your competitor, you are his
competitor. You&rsquo;re both in competition, and each one of you is out
to best the other.

You&rsquo;re not treating your Brother, and your Brother is not treating
you, as though your Function is to recognize God in each other, and in
recognizing It and embracing It, glorifying God in each other. You each
are denying God His Home right in the center of you, right as the center
and circumference of What You Are. And so when you&rsquo;re denying God,
you&rsquo;re denying your Sonship, your Sonhood. You are claiming to be
an orphan. And so you deny God a Home, and you cannot experience being
at Home yourself.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Can the Son deny the Father WITHOUT believing that the Father has denied
HIM?
</div>

No.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God&rsquo;s laws hold only for your protection, and they never hold in
vain.
</div>

In other words, they&rsquo;re always successful at protecting you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What you experience when you deny your Father is still for your
protection&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you say, &ldquo;Oh, when I deny the Father, [small laugh] I
suffer. When I deny the Father, and I don&rsquo;t see Him in my world
and I don&rsquo;t see Him in my Brother, but what I see is what
I&rsquo;ve decided they are, well, then I&rsquo;m in a dog-eat-dog
world. And I either have friendly competition, or I have strenuous
competition that&rsquo;s called war where my competitors are my
enemies.&rdquo; It&rsquo;s not a pleasant experience.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What you experience when you deny your Father is still for your
protection, for the power of your will cannot be lessened without the
intervention of God AGAINST it&hellip;
</div>

When you claim to be an orphan, then you are claiming to be less than
What God Has Created You To Be. You are attempting to lessen What You
Are.  And &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; your will cannot be lessened without the intervention of God
AGAINST it, and any limitation on your power is not the Will of God.
</div>

Now, let&rsquo;s not jump to conclusions. This does not mean that God is
a wrathful God. This does not mean that God is out to get you. It means
simply, as I&rsquo;ve described before, that when you are in the
Movement of Being, when you are yielding to What Divine Life, Truth And
Love Is Unfolding As Creation in your day, you experience no distress,
no tension. You experience Harmony. You experience everything fitting
together. You find everything that happens to be a blessing, not only
for you, but for everyone else.

But, when you say, &ldquo;But, Father, I&rsquo;d rather do it my
way,&rdquo; then it&rsquo;s as though there is a rubber band attached to
your waist and the other end of it attached to the Movement of
Being&mdash;attached to God, if you will&mdash;and when you say,
&ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;d rather do it my way,&rdquo; and you attempt to
not move with the Movement and dig your heels in, immediately what
happens? The rubber band begins to get taut. And you have to exert a
great deal of energy to hold your place, and to move to the right or the
left instead of forward, or to stand still against the forward Movement.
You see?

And this is what it means when it says:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What you experience when you deny your Father is still for your
protection, for the power of your will cannot be lessened without the
intervention of God AGAINST it&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; Reality continues to be the Only Thing Going On, whether
you&rsquo;re choosing to pay attention to it or not. And if you&rsquo;re
choosing not to pay attention to it, then your experience of being
becomes one of tension, stress, distress, discomfort, and all the
rest&mdash;not because God has turned around and said a curse on you,
but because Reality isn&rsquo;t going to stop being, just because
you&rsquo;ve decided not to go along with it. And so as it continues to
be What It Perfectly Is, you experience distress until you finally say
&ldquo;Uncle&rdquo; and yield to the Father and say, &ldquo;Hey, Dad,
wait up. I&rsquo;m coming. I&rsquo;m coming,&rdquo; and run forward to
be with the Movement of your Being.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Therefore, look ONLY to the power that God gave to save you, remembering
that it is yours BECAUSE it is His, and join with your brothers in His
peace.
</div>

Is it beginning to sink in? You can&rsquo;t wake up alone. You
can&rsquo;t wake up because you have an enlightened awareness of What
You Are. Because until you give away what you&rsquo;re aware of, you
won&rsquo;t be able to keep it. It doesn&rsquo;t become an endorsement
on your part. It doesn&rsquo;t become yours as a full-fledged Conscious
Experience.

And so your Brother is your salvation. And somewhere along the line,
they have to become an object of your affection, where they are worth
whatever energy you have to put forth to change your sorry perception of
them for one that reflects the Truth About Them significantly enough for
your behavior toward them to change.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The peace of your Soul lies in its limitlessness.
</div>

You see? [small laugh] Limitlessness is the antithesis of privacy,
isn&rsquo;t it, of littleness.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Limit the peace you share&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you see? &ldquo;I&rsquo;ll share it with you, but I won&rsquo;t
share it with you, you dirty-dealing competitor!&rdquo; You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Limit the peace you share, and your own Soul MUST be unknown to you.
</div>

Must be covered up to you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Every altar to God is part of your Soul because the Light He created is
One with Him. Would you cut off a brother from the Light that is yours?
</div>

Not if you knew that it was the Light that was yours.

You see, your Brother is your salvation because the Light that is in
him&mdash;that you&rsquo;re denying at the moment while you&rsquo;re
satisfied with your awful definition of him&mdash;the Light in him that
is yours, won&rsquo;t be apparent to you as being yours until you honor
it in him or her. Until you give it away, you will not have the
experience of it being yours. Your Brother is your salvation.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Would you cut off a brother from the Light that is yours? You would not
do so if you realized that you can only darken your OWN mind. As you
bring HIM back, so will YOUR mind return. That is the law of God, for
the protection of the wholeness of His Son.
</div>

You see, if you want to wake up, if you want to come back Home, you have
to undo the act that caused you to seem to be separated. And the act was
an act of independence. You had an independence day. And whatever you
abandon your independence from, becomes your salvation. Because the act
of undoing the separation, the act of abandoning independence, is what
returns you to your right Mind, is what returns you to your Sanity.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
ONLY YOU CAN DEPRIVE YOURSELF OF ANYTHING.
</div>

What you don&rsquo;t realize is that the most effective way you have of
depriving yourself of something is by depriving your Brother of
something&mdash;by always putting him at a disadvantage, by always
making him responsible or her responsible for the way your life is
going. You take away something from your Brother, when what&rsquo;s
called for is to give your Brother something, or your Sister.

And what is the one and only thing you can give that is Meaningful? It
is the recognition and acknowledgement of God being right there where
they are, and refusing to abandon that acknowledgement. That&rsquo;s
called Love. Love is the willingness to recognize that Which Is Real in
each and every thing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
ONLY YOU CAN DEPRIVE YOURSELF OF ANYTHING. Do not oppose this
realization, for it is truly the beginning of the dawn of light.
Remember also that the denial of this simple fact takes many forms, and
these you must learn to recognize, and to oppose steadfastly and WITHOUT
EXCEPTION. This is a crucial step &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and this should be underlined and not forgotten.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is a crucial step in the re-awakening. The beginning phases of this
reversal are often quite painful, for as blame is withdrawn from without
there is a strong tendency to harbor it within. It is difficult, at
first, to realize that this is EXACTLY the same thing, for there IS no
distinction between within and without.
</div>

In other words, if you have been blaming everyone else for your woes and
for the awful life you&rsquo;ve been experiencing, and you realize that
you are the only one that can limit yourself, then you can blame
yourself and say, &ldquo;I am responsible.&rdquo; Except that usually
the ego says, &ldquo;You are the one that&rsquo;s responsible, you
stupid little thing. See how stupid you have been? You have ruined your
whole life.&rdquo; And you&rsquo;re still listening to the voice for
fear that at first said everyone else was responsible and which is now
saying, &ldquo;You are responsible. You have ruined your life.&rdquo;
And that&rsquo;s even worse than the idea that you had that everyone
else did&mdash;that everyone else was responsible. There is no
difference because you haven&rsquo;t stepped outside of the ego&rsquo;s
point of view. And it is the ego which is speaking in both cases.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If your brothers are part of you and you blame THEM for your
deprivation, you ARE blaming yourself.
</div>

Because they are part of you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And you cannot blame yourself WITHOUT blaming them. That is why blame
must be undone, NOT reallocated.
</div>

Blame must be abandoned, in other words.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Lay it to yourself and you cannot KNOW yourself, for ONLY the ego blames
at all. Self-blame is therefore ego identification, and as strong an ego
defense as blaming others.
</div>

I&rsquo;ve been telling you repeatedly, you are neither behind the Point
of Perfection, nor advancing toward it; you are at that Point and must
understand yourself therefrom. And the same thing must be applied to
your Brothers and Sisters as you look at them, because this is the only
stance that you can take that steps out of the box, the frame of
reference in which blame rules.

You have to abandon blame. And the only way to abandon blame is to step
into an arena where it doesn&rsquo;t exist. No matter what you think
you&rsquo;ve done in your ignorance, it hasn&rsquo;t subverted God. It
hasn&rsquo;t changed or altered God. It hasn&rsquo;t diminished God. And
it hasn&rsquo;t changed, subverted, or diminished you. Whatever you have
thought you have done in your ignorance, has accomplished nothing, and
therefore there is no blame due. But, in order to escape the illusion of
suffering that accompanies believing that you have accomplished
something, you must &hellip; you must come to where I am and look at
yourself with me. You must go where your Guide is and look at yourself
with him or her.

You must step out of the arena, the box, in which guilt seems to be real
and justified. And if you want to have a different experience of your
Brother or Sister, you have to lift your Brother or Sister out of that
box as well in your own mind, so that in your consideration of that one,
you are reflecting back to that one the Truth that heals&mdash;the
Father&rsquo;s Point of View.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
YOU CANNOT ENTER GOD&rsquo;S PRESENCE IF YOU ATTACK HIS SON.
</div>

We&rsquo;ve spoken of your insistence upon being an authorizer of
definitions and meanings as an attack on God, but it&rsquo;s also an
attack on you. It&rsquo;s also a denial of Who You Are. And in that
state, you give definitions, apply definitions to your Brothers and
Sisters and world, and that constitutes an attack on them.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
YOU CANNOT ENTER GOD&rsquo;S PRESENCE IF YOU ATTACK HIS SON.
</div>

This is why the Sonship is your salvation&mdash;because the Sonship is
what has been attacked and you have to withdraw your attack on them. And
in withdrawing your attack on the Sonship, you undo the attack. And the
Sonship becomes the reason for your undoing the attack, so that your act
of withdrawal of attack constitutes an Act of Love, an Act of
Defenselessness, which allows the Sonship to register with you in Its
True Light.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When His Son &hellip;
</div>

When God&rsquo;s Son &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; lifts his voice in praise of his Creator&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; by saying, &ldquo;I see God there. I&rsquo;m willing to see God
there. I want to see God there.&rdquo;

When God&rsquo;s Son &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; lifts his voice in praise of his Creator, he WILL hear the
Voice of his Father. Yet the Creator cannot be praised WITHOUT His
Son&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you see? You can&rsquo;t just join with God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet the Creator cannot be praised WITHOUT His Son, for their glory is
shared, and they are glorified together.
</div>

Why? Because they aren&rsquo;t separate from each other. The Movement of
God is the Movement of Creation that looks like all of you, all of Us,
and the world and the Universe. If you glorify one part of it, you are
glorifying the Whole of it, because there aren&rsquo;t really parts. And
your willingness to even see the Father in a part of the Universe, leads
to a spontaneous recognition of the Truth of your Love everywhere. But
you&rsquo;ve got to get the first domino to fall before the others will
fall after it. And you start with your Brother.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Christ is at God&rsquo;s altar, waiting to welcome His &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; God&rsquo;s &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; Son.
</div>

Your Guide waits. The Holy Spirit, that which is nothing more than your
right Mind, waits at the Altar in the center of your Being to welcome
God&rsquo;s Son.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
But come wholly without condemnation&hellip;
</div>

Leave your definitions outside the door. Leave that which would
determine that your Brother is something less than What God Is Being
right there, which is a condemnation, at the door.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; for otherwise you will believe that the door is barred and you
cannot enter.
</div>

A very simple way of putting this is that if you wish to companion with
or commune with the Holy Spirit, that which is nothing more than your
right Mind, or with your Guide, you must manage to still your mind
enough to abandon your preoccupation with your definitions, and your
distresses, and your judgments, et cetera. Because if you try to bring
them along with you, in effect you will not be in a state of mental
peace or quiet, and you will not be able to hear the Holy Spirit or your
Guide. Why? Not because They don&rsquo;t answer, but because you are
bringing with you too much noise. Too much of your attention is
preoccupied with something other than listening for the Holy Spirit.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Christ is at God&rsquo;s altar&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; waiting &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; waiting to welcome His Son. But come wholly without
condemnation, for otherwise you will believe that the door is barred and
you cannot enter. The door is NOT barred, and it is impossible for you
to be unable to enter the place where God would have you be.
</div>

That&rsquo;s just the simple fact. But if you have something you would
rather be doing than coming in simplicity into the quietness of you
where you can hear the Holy Spirit or your Guide, you will not hear
anything, even though that&rsquo;s where God would have you be.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
But love yourself with the Love of Christ, for so does your Father love
you. You can REFUSE to enter&hellip;
</div>

And I say &ldquo;refuse&rdquo; in the sense of choosing to do something
other with your mind than giving your full attention to listening.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You can REFUSE to enter, but you CANNOT bar the door which Christ holds
open. Come unto me who holds it open FOR you&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; or come unto the Holy Spirit which holds it open for you
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; for while I live it cannot be shut, and I live forever. God is
my life AND YOURS, and nothing is denied by God to His Son.

At God&rsquo;s altar &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; right in the center of you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; Christ waits for the restoration of Himself in YOU.
</div>

I am God&rsquo;s Son and I wait for your realization that you are
God&rsquo;s Son, to return to you. And I hold the door open for that
realization to return to you. And that door cannot be closed, not just
because I hold it open, but because the Holy Spirit, that which is
nothing more than your right Mind, stands holding your Divinity in trust
while you dally with an ego sense of things, and holds it for you, if
need be, forever&mdash;because your Divine Self, which you are ignoring
at the moment, is Eternal as well.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God knows His Son &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; You &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; as wholly blameless as Himself, and He is approached through
the appreciation of His Son.
</div>

God is approached by your appreciation of your Brother. Not for what
your Brother is doing, but for What Your Brother Truly Is, in spite of
what he may be doing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Christ waits for your acceptance of Him as YOURSELF, and of His
Wholeness as YOURS.
</div>

You see? I am your salvation. The Sonship is your salvation. Because we
wait for you to recognize us in yourself, because that&rsquo;s how you
remember Who You Are, and that&rsquo;s how the Sonship becomes One
again, in full Conscious Awareness of Itself, without having to wait for
you to remember Who You Are while you insist upon playing at being who
you aren&rsquo;t.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For Christ is the Son of God who lives in his Creator and shines with
His glory.
</div>

You see? You&rsquo;ve been trying to shine with glory of your own,
thinking that that&rsquo;s all there was for you to do. But
there&rsquo;s more for you to be, and you need to begin to take hold of
it and be it more consciously.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Christ &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; You &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is the extension of the Love and the Loveliness of God, as
perfect as his Creator, and at peace with Him.
</div>

You see? You&rsquo;re at that Point&mdash;the Point of Perfection. And
these words are describing you from that Point, which is the Reality of
You at this moment.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Blessed is the Son of God, whose radiance is of his Father&hellip;
</div>

And not at his own hand. Not of his own creation.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Blessed is the Son of God, whose radiance is of his Father, and whose
glory he wills to share as his Father shares it with him.
</div>

And I will add: And by sharing, being able to keep it for yourself.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is no condemnation in the Son for there is no condemnation in the
Father. Sharing the perfect Love of the Father the Son must share what
belongs to Him&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Father &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; for otherwise he will not know the Father OR the Son.
</div>

In other words, until you endorse it, you won&rsquo;t be able to keep
it. You won&rsquo;t have it as a Conscious Experience.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Peace be unto you who rest in God &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and not in your own private, little goals; competitive goals.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Peace be unto you who rest in God and in whom the whole Sonship rests.
</div>

If you were to go to a medical practitioner, or let&rsquo;s say a health
practitioner, no matter what area of health-care you might consider, you
would go because you needed help. Because in one way or another, you
were suffering. And you would expect the health professional to provide
the best that was available on your behalf. Now, whenever a Brother or a
Sister comes into your experience&mdash;walks into the room, walks past
your line of sight&mdash;this one has come into your experience, and is
there to be in relationship with, even if it&rsquo;s only to notice that
they are there and that they&rsquo;re headed for the candy counter, or
the checkout stand, or wherever. But, for that time, you&rsquo;re in
relationship with them. And you&rsquo;re there to bless them.
You&rsquo;re there to bless them&mdash;not to evaluate their clothing,
not to evaluate their tone of voice&mdash;but to give an
acknowledgement.

You are there like the health-care professional. Every single one of you
deserves the best health-care&mdash;the attitude and the behaviors that
make you better than you were before the encounter. You have the option,
in every encounter with a Brother, no matter how distant or intimate it
might be, to bless them by remembering, to whatever degree you are able,
that they are neither behind the Point of Perfection, nor advancing
toward it&mdash;no matter what they think&mdash;but they are at that
Point. Everyone needs that acknowledgement to be made about them and for
them, because none of you remember it consistently. And every single one
of you need the blessing of that kind of mindful attention.
Health-care&mdash;mindful attention.

And no matter how obnoxious they are, no matter how unkind they are, no
matter how much their behavior is governed by their fear, you need to
remember What The Truth Is that they&rsquo;ve forgotten, and not indulge
in spontaneous, self-righteous judgment of their behavior, but to get
beneath it, even past the fear that is generating the behavior, to the
acknowledgement of the Ultimate Truth about them, because that, for lack
of better words, is a health-care treatment. You must dare to be
persistent and consistent.

Again, we read earlier:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
ONLY YOU CAN DEPRIVE YOURSELF OF ANYTHING. Do not oppose this
realization, for it is truly the beginning of the dawn of light.
Remember also that the denial of this simple fact &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that only you can deprive yourself of anything.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; takes many forms, and these you must learn to recognize, and to
oppose steadfastly and WITHOUT EXCEPTION.
</div>

You must become more diligent in the process of reorienting your
attention. You see, you don&rsquo;t reallocate blame. You reorient your
attention.

You must step out of the level of blaming the other person for his or
her problems, because the other person is having problems because he or
she is blaming himself or herself for her problems, or blaming others
for their problems. But it&rsquo;s all in that arena in which nothing
but conflict can be experienced, because there&rsquo;s no premise being
utilized of Innocence, of being at the Point of Perfection&mdash;of the
acknowledgement of the fact that you never ever could have managed to
separate yourself from God, and do something awful that you must be
punished for, that you are guilty of, that blame can rightly be laid at
your doorstep for.

You know, last week I spoke at some length about how loved you are, so
that you might remember how loved you are, or so that you might have an
&ldquo;Aha!&rdquo; about how loved you are, so that you might be lifted
up out of your poor definition of yourself, your unlovable definition of
yourself, into a new arena in which your lovableness is natural. I must
do this for you, and you must do this for each other. Because in doing
it for each other, you do the one essential thing that&rsquo;s not been
done&mdash;and that is the abandoning of an arrogant, private, special
selfness in favor of joining with another in acknowledging the Truth
About Them&mdash;and thus pushing that domino that causes the
realization of your Divinity to register with you because you&rsquo;ve
endorsed it and made it your own, and demonstrated it in action with
your Brother.

Now if your Brother or Sister is so damned convinced of their fearful
definition of themselves and how full of blame they are&mdash;if they
are so convinced of it that they can&rsquo;t possibly hear any verbal
expression of that fact that you might put forth, if they&rsquo;re so
convinced of it that no matter what you do, their behavior doesn&rsquo;t
change&mdash;it just means that as the health-care practitioner that you
are, you are called upon to oppose steadfastly and without exception
whatever their limited belief is in your mind, and not succumb to it and
move into a state of reaction yourself, so that you continue to consider
them in the Peace of the understanding of What The Truth About Them Is.

You must stop giving yourself permission to indulge in
reaction&mdash;emotional reaction. Why? Because the moment you do that,
you&rsquo;re saying, &ldquo;I&rsquo;ll be back with You in a minute,
God. I have some reacting to do.&rdquo; And so you cut yourself off
until you get your fill of hurting from reacting and you finally say,
&ldquo;Okay, I lost the beam. I&rsquo;m going to stop this and get
centered again. I&rsquo;m going to get quiet, and I&rsquo;m going to
join with the Holy Spirit. I&rsquo;m going to acknowledge God as my
Father, and therefore myself as His Son or His Daughter. And then,
although I haven&rsquo;t done that yet, I, at this point, intend, once I
get to that point, to include this lousy so-and-so that I&rsquo;m so
upset with, in the acknowledgement of his or her Divinity. And I will
withdraw my joining, I will withdraw my partnering with this one in his
or her lousy self-perception, so that I do not strengthen it by
confirming it by joining through reaction.

You may not be able to change someone else, but you know the saying,
&ldquo;Misery loves company.&rdquo; And if someone is miserable, and
their misery makes you miserable, you join with them in their
misery&mdash;and because misery loves company, it does confirm for
them, and solidify further for them, their misery. That you don&rsquo;t
want to do. And the only way not to do it, is to steadfastly choose for
your Peace, listen within, remember the Truth about them that
they&rsquo;re neither behind the Point of Perfection nor advancing
toward it, but they&rsquo;re at that Point. And you stay with that. You
withdraw your part in the &ldquo;misery loves company&rdquo; scenario.
And confirmation is lessened.

And the Extension of Love, the Acknowledgement of God there where they
are that occurs in your mind, does bless you. And like a gift given but
unopened, it remains with that one until that one is ready to open it.
And you have not done anything in vain.

I love you all. And I look forward to being with you next week.

Okay.



























Course In Miracles (reference pages)

[^1]: T10.4 The Inheritance of God's Son

