---
title: Sep 11, 2005
ref: "T10.5 The 'Dynamics' of the Ego"
alink: "/acim/text/10/chap1005/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who is joining us on the Internet.

It&rsquo;s an interesting opening sentence tonight.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego ALWAYS attacks on behalf of separation.
</div>

Let&rsquo;s be clear on one thing. The ego never does anything but
attack.

It&rsquo;s incapable of caring. It&rsquo;s incapable of being sensitive
to needs. The only need that exists is the need for self-protection.
Self-protection is a defense, and so every act of the ego is a defense
against whatever. It&rsquo;s a defense against your world. It&rsquo;s a
defense against God. It&rsquo;s a defense against your Brother. And,
unknown to you as you practice the state of egohood or orphanhood,
it&rsquo;s a defense against your being consciously aware of Who and
What You Are. It&rsquo;s the means by which you keep your Birthright
hidden from you.

Well, you say, &ldquo;You know, I go through my week and I work with the
people. I work together. I do my best to work together with the people I
work with. I try to be supportive of my family. I try to be thoughtful.
As a general rule, I&rsquo;m not going around attacking. I&rsquo;m not
trying to be separate. I really do try to fit in.&rdquo; Remember last
week we talked a little bit about needs and how needs are always messy?
Getting into the arena of needs so as to have needs met, is always
uncomfortable. You all work very hard to arrive at a point where you are
without need.

You raise your kids, they move out, and now you go about getting all the
pretty little knick-knacks that you never could have when your kids were
at home, or the hobby supplies that you need that you could never leave
handy because somebody would get into it. Your need of raising the kids,
and everything that went along with it, is over and now you can have
things the way you want them. And so, for a while, perhaps you enjoy the
freedom.

And then what happens? Oh, dear. Tsk, tsk. One of your kids gets
pregnant. And after nine months or so, here&rsquo;s this little one who
knows nothing about not touching anything. And as it grows, it becomes a
threat to the order that you have finally achieved; the peace and so on
that you&rsquo;ve established. And so, unless you happen to be one who
has not let go of the capacity to stay in touch with needs, if
you&rsquo;re one who has not let go of the capacity to find that
relating to each other is more important than the orderliness of things,
you begin to think of this grandchild and grandchildren as a threat.
When you become defensive, [you say,] &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t touch.
Don&rsquo;t touch. No, no. Don&rsquo;t do that,&rdquo; rather than
valuing togetherness; rather than valuing being present with each member
of the family in ways that are embracing and involving.

Now that&rsquo;s just one of the ways that you establish independence.
It&rsquo;s just one of the ways that you reinforce separation. But
there&rsquo;s another way you do it, too. I&rsquo;m describing this so
that you might understand that the statement, &ldquo;The ego always
attacks on behalf of separation,&rdquo; is not just a philosophical
statement. It isn&rsquo;t a statement to be intellectually understood.
It needs to relate to where you live. Another way in which you establish
and confirm separation is by refraining from becoming involved with your
Brother or Sister when there is a need.

A favorite phrase for a lot of people is, &ldquo;Been there, done
that.&rdquo;

&ldquo;This is their time to work through their problems. I did it, and
I moved through it, and I&rsquo;m beyond it now. I don&rsquo;t have to
go through this again with them. I don&rsquo;t have to be willing to
take up my time and energy, when nobody took up time and energy with me
when I was moving through it and growing, and developing and maturing,
and becoming a more effective presence.&rdquo;

But there&rsquo;s something more fundamental than just the bother of it.
Why are needs messy? Because they are where change is occurring, where
things are not stable. They are a threshold. You might say they are the
threshold of a miracle. And so, it requires everyone involved to be
willing to stand at the threshold of what appears to be confusion.
It&rsquo;s lack of order&mdash;meaning it is movement going beyond your
present sense of what the best order of things ought to be.

When there is a need that your Brother has, if you are not going to
maintain separation, you&rsquo;re not going to maintain distance and
you&rsquo;re going to get involved&mdash;meaning, in so many words,
you&rsquo;re going to put your shoulder to the same wheel they are
putting their shoulder to, because it is a threshold of a miracle. You
are reluctant to do it because you are afraid you will not be able to
quote &ldquo;pull off a miracle&rdquo; unquote.

You do not want to stand at the threshold they&rsquo;re standing at of
the unknown, looking with perseverance to see how the need is going to
be met. Why? Because you say, &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t see how the need can
be met.&rdquo; You are afraid that the need can&rsquo;t be met, and you
don&rsquo;t want to confront yourself with your fear.

Do you see what I&rsquo;m saying? You do not want to place yourself at
the threshold that your Brother is standing at, even though you have
platitudes like, &ldquo;Been there, done that.&rdquo; Well, if
you&rsquo;ve been there and done that, do it again. You know what
it&rsquo;s about. You know the ropes. So go there and stand with them,
and be the encouragement and be the persistence that they fear to
exercise because it looks like there&rsquo;s no answer. You see what
I&rsquo;m saying?

Your reluctance to be involved is a way that you daily practice
separation, which means that you are engaging in the ego&rsquo;s
activity of always attacking&mdash;self-protection instead of caring
enough to give your attention to the threshold of a miracle with your
Brother, and being willing to stand there because you have been there.
And you know that what it takes is persistence, even though it&rsquo;s
not easy; even though you stand there in confidence, without anything to
justify it except your past experience that miracles happen. They have
happened to every single one of you. And they never happened because you
were competent. They happened because you didn&rsquo;t give up. No
matter how sloppy you engaged in moving through the miracle, you
didn&rsquo;t give up.

So:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego ALWAYS attacks on behalf of separation.
</div>

Most of your days are spent, to one degree or another, confirming
separation. Why? So that you might maintain the little bit of order that
you&rsquo;ve been able to achieve, and not let it be disturbed by the
unpredictable. After all, you&rsquo;ve done your work, you&rsquo;ve
lived your years, whatever&mdash;however you want to think about
it&mdash;and now you deserve to have some peace, without disturbance.
Well, you know what? That&rsquo;s called death.

The dictum of the Father is, &ldquo;Behold, I make all things
new.&rdquo; Being is a verb! Existing/Being is a Movement&mdash;a
Forever Movement. Which means that in the process of Awakening,
you&rsquo;re all going to come to the point where you are willing to
never expect things to be settled, in order, orderly. You know what?
There is nothing awesome about order, or orderliness of things. What is
awesome is the unpredictable Movement of Being, of Life.

I mean you go to bed at night. You don&rsquo;t have any pets to disturb
anything. And you get up in the morning and walk out of your bedroom,
and do you stand in awe of the living room that hasn&rsquo;t changed
since last night? Why would you stand in awe at the familiar? Bliss is
not peace with the status quo. Got it? Bliss is not peace with the
status quo. Bliss is the absence of fear in the middle of,
&ldquo;Behold, I make all things new.&rdquo; Bliss is the experience of
awe and wonder. And so, is it beginning to click with you, maybe, that
this awful thing that you call needs are thresholds to waking up, are
thresholds to Real Experiences of Being?

And so if you have a child with a health problem that requires
attention, or you have a child who for one reason or another is not up
to par with the other children and needs a special help to catch up, if
you have a situation in the community that is not leaving you alone,
that&rsquo;s requiring your attention&mdash;the call is for you to see
the needs and not talk the needs away. You must see the needs and
address the needs by insisting upon persevering until the miracle of the
need met is manifested.

&ldquo;Oh, that&rsquo;s their problem.&rdquo; That&rsquo;s another one
of everyone&rsquo;s favorite sayings. &ldquo;That&rsquo;s their
problem.&rdquo; Well, there you go, practicing separation. And actually
what you&rsquo;re doing is you are practicing a defense against moving
into a place where you don&rsquo;t have the answer, but you&rsquo;re
called upon to be the place where the answer can come. This is how you
practice separation daily in one way or another.

Again.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego ALWAYS attacks &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; it always attacks. It can&rsquo;t do anything else.

But it &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; ALWAYS attacks on behalf of &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the only thing that means anything to it &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; separation. Believing it has the power to do this it does
nothing else, because its goal of autonomy IS nothing else.
</div>

&ldquo;Oh, that&rsquo;s their problem.&rdquo; Isn&rsquo;t that a
statement of autonomy?

&ldquo;Been there, done that.&rdquo; Isn&rsquo;t that a statement of
autonomy?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego is totally confused about reality, but it does NOT lose sight of
its goal. It is much more vigilant than YOU are because it is perfectly
certain of its purpose. YOU are confused because you do NOT know YOURS.
</div>

Does that not make it perfectly clear that you and what you would call
&ldquo;your ego&rdquo; are not one? You and the ego are not one. You and
the habits of thinking that you are employing are not one and the same.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What you must learn to recognize is that the LAST thing the ego wishes
you to realize is that YOU ARE AFRAID OF IT. For if the ego gives rise
to fear it is DIMINISHING your independence and WEAKENING your power.
Yet its one claim to your allegiance is that it can GIVE power to you.
</div>

Now what I want you to understand is that very few of you, especially
when you get into a spiritual or metaphysical vein, very few of you
become proactive. You back off from involvement, because lack of
involvement means the avoidance of messiness. It provides a sense of
peace. And then, in order not to have to be involved in the correction
of things that need to be corrected, you say, or many say, &ldquo;The
world is an illusion. You&rsquo;re making it real by addressing
needs.&rdquo; And so it justifies not taking action. And it provides a
sense of peace because you stay out of the messiness.

It&rsquo;s very easy to point at an illness, or a bad experience, and
say, &ldquo;It&rsquo;s not real,&rdquo; and think that you&rsquo;re done
with it. But saying it, is a way of not doing anything about it. If you
know that it&rsquo;s not real, you have the means of demonstrating that
it&rsquo;s not real, so that it no longer presents itself as though it
is.

And you&rsquo;ve got to persist until you see the miracle. The Course
says that a miracle is a sudden shift of perception. Oh boy, that was
wonderful news for the people who wanted to be in a state of separation,
who didn&rsquo;t want to be involved. A miracle is a sudden shift of
perception. If you&rsquo;re not careful, it makes it sound as though a
miracle has nothing to do with needs being met&mdash;with food at the
moment because you need food; with shelter because your house has blown
away; or as I said last week, clean diapers because the baby has pooped
in them. A miracle is a sudden shift of perception that results in a
changed experience, because you stuck with the miracle, you stuck with
the shift in perception until, for lack of better words, it brought
forth the evidence.

Gotta keep your feet on the ground! And you&rsquo;ve got to make
everything that we&rsquo;re reading relevant.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet its &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the ego&rsquo;s &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; one claim to your allegiance is that it can GIVE power to you.
</div>

Well, power to what? Power to rise above the situation, the unreality.

Wow! You didn&rsquo;t really think that&rsquo;s what you wanted, but if
you listen to the ego, that&rsquo;s what you ask for and that&rsquo;s
what you get. And you end up not being an agent for change, because
you&rsquo;re not being the Presence of Love that wishes to see the
Evidence of Love and sticks with it until the evidence is there.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; its one claim to your allegiance is that it can GIVE power to
you. Without this belief you would not listen to it at all. How, then,
can its existence continue if you realize that, BY accepting it, you ARE
belittling yourself and DEPRIVING yourself of power?
</div>

Now what is this ego that you&rsquo;re listening to? It&rsquo;s not your
mind. It&rsquo;s a set of definitions. It&rsquo;s a set of beliefs.
It&rsquo;s conclusions that you have arrived at through faulty
reasoning&mdash;reasoning that has been based upon factors that do not
include God in the equation; that only include your definition of
yourself and the definitions of everything else that you employ.

And definitions are not that which is holding the definitions. You are
what is holding and employing the definitions. And the you that is
holding it, holding them, is the Ultimate One&mdash;the Christ right
now. But you&rsquo;re holding definitions of yourself at odds with What
You Are. And then you are believing that you are the definition of
yourself that you&rsquo;re employing&mdash;the foundational definition
of yourself being that you are an orphan, that you have no Father,
ultimately that there is no God, and that the world and universe is
nothing but a fluke of material dynamics.

Now:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning all of these definitions and theories and concepts that
you employ &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; can and does allow you to regard yourself as supercilious,
unbelieving, &ldquo;light-hearted,&rdquo; . .
</div>

&hellip; you don&rsquo;t take anything too seriously.
&ldquo;That&rsquo;s their problem.&rdquo; &ldquo;Oh, you worry too
much.&rdquo; Lighthearted, yeah.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; distant&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; [small laugh] &ldquo;When you&rsquo;ve worked your problem out,
come back and tell me all about it.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; emotionally shallow, callous, uninvolved, and even desperate,
but NOT REALLY AFRAID. MINIMIZING fear, but NOT its undoing, is the
ego&rsquo;s constant effort&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; get it?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
MINIMIZING fear, but NOT its undoing&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you see? The miracle is the undoing of the fear. The miracle is
the shift of perception that undoes the fear you have of not being
competent enough to participate in a Brother&rsquo;s miracle, and
involving yourself in the resolution of his need&mdash;that awful, messy
thing called need.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
MINIMIZING fear, but NOT its undoing, is the ego&rsquo;s constant
effort, and is indeed the skill at which it is very ingenious.
</div>

How many ways do you have to get out of doing things? And how many of
you can express your means of not getting involved with lofty, spiritual
principles?

You even say, &ldquo;I have so many things to do, I don&rsquo;t have
time to take care of myself. I&rsquo;ve got too many things to do, too
many urgent things to do, to take a nap, or go to bed early and get some
needed rest. After all, I&rsquo;m a spiritual being. I&rsquo;m not a
body. I am still free to be as God created me. And that means I
don&rsquo;t need sleep. That means that I can push and push and push
beyond endurance. I can ignore my needs.&rdquo; You see, when you are
behaving in a way that disrespects you, you will experience more needs.
But if you will acknowledge your needs and meet them by sticking with
them until you have the evidence of no need, you will find perhaps that
you do need less rest than most people. But not because of any autonomy
and power you have of your own, but because you&rsquo;re willing to fit
in. To be a part of what? The Way, capital &ldquo;W&rdquo; Way Things
Work.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
How can it &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the ego &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; preach separation WITHOUT upholding it through fear, and would
you listen to it if you recognized this IS what it is doing?
</div>

You see, orphanhood is an unnatural conscious experience. It&rsquo;s
actually an aberration. And because it causes you not to remember your
Father&mdash;and therefore your part in the Sonship, your involvement
with something&mdash;you experience fear. You experience the
unnaturalness of it, the uneasiness of it. And as I&rsquo;ve said
before, at the bottom line it&rsquo;s your capital &ldquo;S&rdquo;
Sanity telling you that you are trying to do something very unnatural,
and to stop, to be alert not to proceed any further in that direction.

But then what happens? As I&rsquo;ve said before, because you&rsquo;re
still the Son of God, you&rsquo;re still the Christ, you have all the
power of your Christhood, and you can still feel it, even though you
don&rsquo;t recognize it for What It Is. And so that Strength that is
True Strength, is used by you, in your amnesia as to your Real Identity,
as the means of addressing the fear by overcoming it, rather than
abandoning what has occasioned it. And that&rsquo;s why the ego is
described as that which causes the experience of fear, but also as that
which minimizes it by suggesting that you have the power to overcome it
and your power is greater than the fear. And so it gives you courage.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
YOUR recognition that whatever seems to separate you from God is ONLY
fear, regardless of the form it takes and quite apart from how the EGO
wants you to experience it, is therefore the basic ego threat.
</div>

What is the basic ego threat? Your recognition that whatever seems to
separate you from God is only fear.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Its dream of autonomy is shaken to its foundation by this awareness. For
though you may countenance a false idea of independence, you will NOT
accept the cost of fear IF YOU RECOGNIZE IT.
</div>

So, why do you not avoid needs? Why do you engage in addressing needs?
Because they are the point of breakthrough, they sit there as the
threshold of discovery; they sit there as the threshold of a miracle.
And if you&rsquo;re willing to address the need, it will uncover to you
the fear you have that you&rsquo;re not competent to meet the need. And
it will also uncover the fear you have that if there is a God, maybe God
won&rsquo;t answer you. So fear has you coming and going. And it will
box you in unless you ignore it. But if you do not ignore it, the
miracle will occur. The shift of perception, the sudden shift of
perception will occur. And simultaneous with it, will be the evidence of
needs met, so that that need no longer presents itself.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; though you may countenance a false idea of independence, you
will NOT accept the cost of fear IF YOU RECOGNIZE IT. Yet this IS the
cost, and the ego CANNOT minimize it.
</div>

The ego and the fear are simultaneous and inseparable. The only way to
get out of the fear is to abandon the ego. How do you abandon the ego?
Very simply. In religious terms, turn to God. Invite God back into your
life. Break your stupid isolation. Break your stupid rest in
independence by inviting God back in.

But even more clearly, you have the means now, because you have the
words now to understand that the way you abandon the ego is by
abandoning the memory banks, abandoning the thinking, abandoning the
reasoning processes that are based upon what is in the memory banks. You
now know, because the words are being used, that there is a Place of
Excellence in you, an Altar. It&rsquo;s the Place where what? Your
Divinity is held in trust while you dally with the ego. And what is held
in trust there is called the Holy Spirit.

How do you abandon the ego? By giving your attention to that Place in
you where your essential God-derived Divinity awaits your attention and
invitation to be involved. And then listen, rather than spout from the
memory banks all of your best judgments, and opinions, and reasonings,
and conclusions, and definitions &hellip; blah, blah, blah.

It&rsquo;s not hard, but it does require a shifting of gears, a shifting
of attention, and a shift of intent. &ldquo;Not my will, but Thine be
done.&rdquo; You see?

Again.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; though you may countenance a false idea of independence, you
will NOT accept the cost of fear IF YOU RECOGNIZE IT.
</div>

Meaning if you recognize it for what it is.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet this IS the cost&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; again, that&rsquo;s just the Way Things Work. It is the cost.
No way to wiggle around it. It costs something.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; this IS the cost, and the ego CANNOT minimize it. For if you
overlook &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; love you are overlooking YOURSELF, and you MUST fear unreality
BECAUSE you have denied yourself.
</div>

In other words, it says the state of insanity cannot be a comfortable
experience.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
By believing that you have successfully ATTACKED truth, you are
believing that attack has POWER.
</div>

Why? Because you believe that you have successfully attacked truth.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Very simply, then, you have become afraid of YOURSELF.
</div>

The Christ That You Are.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And no-one wills to learn what he believes would destroy him.
</div>

What if you join with your Brother in a willingness to recognize needs,
not for the purpose of seeing what the problems of the world are, but so
that the needs can be addressed and eradicated? Wow. What if your fear
that you&rsquo;re engaging in helping, in caring, in meeting the need,
what if it results in miracles? Ah, you might become known as a miracle
worker. Tsk. Bad news. Bad news. Then all the huddled masses of the
world might converge on your doorstep. Well, but it&rsquo;s just the
same suggestion in a greater magnitude. &ldquo;Maybe I can&rsquo;t be
the agent for change for the masses of the world. Maybe God will not
work a miracle. Maybe I am not able.&rdquo; You see?

So here we moved from, on a small scale with just your neighbor or your
friend who has a need, or a member of your family, that you might not be
able to stand immovably on behalf of the miracle, that you
wouldn&rsquo;t be able to be an agent for change, and then finding out
that, indeed, that is the means for, not initiating a miracle, but
eliciting/allowing a miracle and experiencing the wonder of it. You see,
then you&rsquo;ll find yourself not devoting yourself to anything else,
because you see that it is what promotes correction of the things that
need to be corrected. And you were just willing to stand as the servant
of the movement of the miracle, rather than the author of it.

But now the fear presents itself that such an outcome will cause you to
be overwhelmed with needs presenting themselves to you that you may not
be able to be equal to. You see? You just moved into a larger arena in
your mind and reemployed the initial fear.

You are all conditioned by fear. And this is what you need to see. You
need to be willing to look at what holds you back. You have a need not
to be suffering. You have a need not to be suffering from the belief
that you are something less than the Christ. You need &hellip; you need
to no longer experience an unconsciousness of your capital
&ldquo;B&rdquo; Birthright because of Who and What You Divinely Are.

Looking at it, is not for the purpose of saying, coming to the
conclusion, &ldquo;I&rsquo;m really screwed up!&rdquo; That&rsquo;s not
the point. The point is to see what the belief is that keeps you from
leaning further beyond it into your need not to be suffering, so that
you get past the reluctance to experience a miracle, to have the clearer
experience of your Divinity.

I&rsquo;m here helping you persist through your fears that create
reluctance and resistance, and that cause you to say, &ldquo;You know, I
really don&rsquo;t need that much. I really don&rsquo;t need to be
wealthy. I do quite well with very little.&rdquo; You see? &ldquo;I have
learned what&rsquo;s really important, and things are not
important.&rdquo;

&ldquo;I&rsquo;ve learned how to be alone. It wouldn&rsquo;t have been
my choice, but I&rsquo;ve learned to be alone. And you know what? In my
aloneness, I&rsquo;ve gotten closer to God.&rdquo; Well, I&rsquo;m
telling you right now, that thought is pure bullshit. It&rsquo;s pure
ego bullshit, because the closer you get to God, the closer you will
find yourself becoming with your Brother, and the more involved you will
become in the addressing of needs with Divine Guidance. And as a result,
experience miracles that will ripple out and bless everyone, because
there never is a private miracle! Never!

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If the ego&rsquo;s goal of autonomy could be accomplished God&rsquo;s
purpose could be defeated, and this IS impossible. Only by learning what
fear IS can you finally learn to distinguish the possible from the
impossible and the false from the true. According to the ego&rsquo;s
teaching, ITS goal can be accomplished, and God&rsquo;s purpose can NOT.
According to the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s teaching, ONLY God&rsquo;s purpose
is accomplishment, and it is ALREADY accomplished.
</div>

What is accomplished? The Movement of Being. The &ldquo;Behold, I make
all things new.&rdquo; That is What&rsquo;s Going On. It&rsquo;s the
only Thing that&rsquo;s going on.

And if you are not seeing it in your daily life, which is really the
only place available to you to see it, then you&rsquo;re having a dream.
You&rsquo;re having a nightmare. But it is available to be seen, and
that&rsquo;s why correction of illusions is possible. And it is why
giving your attention to needs out of caring, because you are Love,
elicits miracles, sudden shifts of perception.

Miracles require diligence, much of the time. Miracles require of you
that you stand right in the face of the effects of a hurricane, right in
the face of a family illness, right in the face of whatever, and stay
Conscious. Don&rsquo;t lapse into your metaphysical and spiritual
folderol that lets you not address with your full attention the
manifestation of a miracle, because you&rsquo;ve learned how to do with
less than a miracle. [The ego says:] &ldquo;You&rsquo;re quite happy
with less. And, to tell you the truth, your ability to do with less,
means you&rsquo;re further along the road of your enlightenment than
your Brother who is experiencing need when he needn&rsquo;t.&rdquo;

Miracles are vigorous and invigorating, and it is impossible to stand in
their Presence without awe. And if you&rsquo;re not experiencing awe,
you&rsquo;re not involved in a miracle. And if you&rsquo;re not involved
in a miracle, you have somehow managed to avoid experiencing need. Needs
are places in you in your ego structures that are weak, and they
therefore serve as thresholds for [finger snap] breakthroughs,
aha&rsquo;s, sudden shifts of perception&mdash;sudden shifts of
perception that put you in the position of acting, I&rsquo;m going to
say, radically, unexpectedly, uncalculatedly, being in a way that
doesn&rsquo;t honor all of the statements of the need. You usually
experience need as a clear statement of lack&mdash;of lack that you
cannot escape. On the other hand, if you&rsquo;re looking at it as a
threshold of breakthrough, of discovery and transformed experience, you
will behave on that basis as you are infilled with that awareness, and
you will take actions that your interpretation of &ldquo;need as
lack&rdquo; would not allow you to take.

Now, I have shared with you a vigorous teaching that should invigorate
you and cause you to have a little bit more courage to look at needs, so
that your attention might be where the breakthrough can occur, and the
sudden shift of perception can happen, and the correction of the
suggestion of lack can be replaced by the Conscious Experience of
Fulfillment that will be recordable on cameras, that will be evident
through physical examination.

So where are you going to give your attention? Are you going to give
your attention to wonderful, soft, spiritual platitudes? Or are you
going to give your attention to real, down-to-earth, daily needs that
may be uncovering limitations you&rsquo;ve accepted as real, for the
purpose of getting beyond that limited belief, so that you have the
experience of the Fullness of your Being and have the evidence of it as
well?

&ldquo;Well, you know, hurricane Katrina has been a humungous disaster.
I&rsquo;m not wealthy. It&rsquo;s so overwhelming that anything I would
do would just be a drop in the bucket, and probably would be siphoned
off by the executives who are administrating the contributions. So,
what&rsquo;s the use?&rdquo; Well, there&rsquo;s your first need.
Address that thought. The thought is, &ldquo;I can&rsquo;t do anything
meaningful here.&rdquo; Not true. Needing to see through that thought,
is the thing to give your attention to. Why? So that you can listen to
find out what you can do, because you can do something.

God in His Infinite Self-Expression Looking Like You is not incompetent
to the meeting of needs and the uncovering of the fact that their
existence is illegitimate. And so you stick with it until you have the
shift of perception that uncovers what you are capable of doing,
together with the experience of its real meaningfulness, so that you may
act and be that which diminishes the evidence of need.

Now, I&rsquo;m talking about this because this is where we are in the
book. It&rsquo;s just handy that Katrina came along at the same time so
I can use it as an example.

I love you all vigorously, with enthusiasm, with everything I can bring
to you to encourage you not to continue, no matter what lofty reasons
you might have for it or what selfish reasons you might have for it, so
that you might stop maintaining distance from each other, separating
yourself from addressing needs, and giving yourself a nice, little,
imaginary castle that you can&rsquo;t let anything disturb. I said
that&rsquo;s death. And the message tonight is engage in Life with Love,
Extension, Caring&mdash;that which involves you with each other, instead
of separating you from each other.

I look forward to being with you next week. But lean on me all week,
okay?

Okay.

[^1]: T10.5 The 'Dynamics' of the Ego

