---
title: Oct 2, 2005
ref: "T10.5 The 'Dynamics' of the Ego"
alink: "/acim/text/10/chap1005/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who is joining us on the Internet.

We&rsquo;ll go right into the book.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego analyzes; the Holy Spirit ACCEPTS.
</div>

The reason the ego analyzes, in other words the reason each of you
thinks things through, is because the ego has no source to go to in
order to know anything. The ego, really being nonexistent, just an
imagination, doesn&rsquo;t have a capacity to know. And so it must
gather data and analyze it so that it may come to what it calls an
intelligent decision. And of course, what determines an intelligent
decision as far as the ego is concerned is something that successfully
covers up the fact that it doesn&rsquo;t really exist. It&rsquo;s
something that protects it from discovery.

But &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the Holy Spirit ACCEPTS.
</div>

The Holy Spirit has not denied its Source. The Holy Spirit, which is
nothing more than your right Mind&mdash;you in your actuality&mdash;has
never separated itself from its Source. And it knows that its Function
is to reflect its Source. The Holy Spirit, claiming no separate
actuality from its Source, yields to its Source. That is its Nature;
that is its Function. That is your Nature; that is your Function.

Shifting from the ego perspective to the only True Perspective that you
have available to you seems a frightening one because it means that you
are giving up personal control, personal authority&mdash;the only thing
that the ego sees can keep it intact; keep it safe from dissolving, from
disappearing, from losing its validity. And because the ego is not an
&ldquo;it&rdquo;&mdash;it&rsquo;s just a way you&rsquo;re using your
minds&mdash;it seems to you that you will lose your identity. You will
lose your actuality. You will lose that force of presence, or force of
character, that makes you presentable and actual, which obviously means
that you will disappear. But you are not what you imagine yourselves to
be.

You are that which has imagined itself to be something different from
What It Is. You are that which has the choice to imagine or not imagine.
You are that which is present whether imagination is occurring or not,
just as you are that which exists whether you&rsquo;re thinking or not.
You are that Pure Awareness, Conscious Being, the Being of Consciousness
that exists immovably, infinitely, eternally, with or without thought.

And so &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the Holy Spirit ACCEPTS.
</div>

This word &ldquo;accepts&rdquo; is important. It&rsquo;s not important
when you are awake, but it&rsquo;s important when you&rsquo;re not awake
and in a process of waking up, because one who wants to be an author
does not want to accept; one who claims authority that he does not have,
wants others to accept him. And so to engage in acceptance, to
consciously engage in yielding to something other than what you
presently perceive yourself to be, is essential to waking up. It is
essential to abandoning your habit of trying to be and thinking that you
are successfully being a personal authority, which would cause you to be
separate from everything else, and which is the whole problem that all
of you are wanting to wake up from.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The appreciation of wholeness comes ONLY through acceptance, for to
analyze means to separate out. The attempt to understand totality by
breaking it up is clearly the characteristically contradictory approach
of the ego to everything.
</div>

You&rsquo;re not feeling well and somebody says, &ldquo;Well, what were
you thinking? What was your attitude before you started not feeling
well? You&rsquo;re responsible for what you are experiencing. What were
you thinking? Well, what caused you to think that? Why were you thinking
that?&rdquo;&mdash;and getting all of the little details so as to have
an understanding of the process by which this one arrived at a point of
not feeling well. Why? So that a process of healing might be arrived at
that can be used again in the future and thereby assure control so that
one won&rsquo;t have to go through the problem again.

But the Holy Spirit would say, &ldquo;Aside from what you were thinking,
aside from what events happened, are you not the Son of God? Are you not
God&rsquo;s Daughter? Aside from what you think has happened and what
seems to justify your condition, are you not the manifestation, the
visibility and tangibility of Love&mdash;God&rsquo;s Love in His
Self-Expressing right there where you are? Do you realize how loved you
are? Will you open up to the experience of Love that not only surrounds
you, but constitutes the essence of every little aspect of you. Every
molecule, every atom, every movement of energy in what you would call
your body, is the Presence and Movement of Love illuminating everything.
You are the Energy of Love. The Energy of Love is all there of you. Will
you take some time right now to let that experience in?&rdquo; You see?
&ldquo;You don&rsquo;t need to defend yourself against anything. You
don&rsquo;t need to defend yourself against your thoughts. You
don&rsquo;t need to defend yourself at all, because you are safely held
in the arms of God because you are the embodiment of God Himself, and
nothing else.&rdquo; You see, the Holy Spirit accepts what&rsquo;s true
of you and reflects what&rsquo;s true of you back to you so that you
might consider what&rsquo;s true of you without analysis, so that you
might be able to quiet your fear enough to let the experience of Love
that is you and is around you in. It invites you into a wholeness, not
into bits and pieces and parts. It moves your mind into a Singularity
which is perfectly in harmony with God. It invites you to accept, rather
than analyze your best beliefs about yourself.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Never forget that the ego believes that power, understanding and TRUTH
lie in separation, and to ESTABLISH this belief it MUST attack.
</div>

Why must it believe that power, understanding and truth lie in
separation? Because it&rsquo;s a state of mind in which it sees itself
as independent and needs to confirm its independence in order to ensure
its so-called existence and demonstrate it to be real.

And in order &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; to ESTABLISH this belief it MUST attack.
</div>

Well, what does that mean? It means that it must attack your capacity to
remember What You Truly Are. It must cause you to become distracted from
the Truth, the Real Truth that this so-called ego, this body of thoughts
that you employ and concepts and mutual agreements, that they are
&hellip;

(PAUL: I&rsquo;m sorry. I lost it.)

It must demonstrate that they are truth because they are essential to
its continuing its sense of existence.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Unaware that the belief cannot BE established, and obsessed with the
conviction that separation IS salvation, the ego attacks everything it
perceives by breaking it up into small and disconnected parts, without
meaningful relationships, and thus without meaning.
</div>

When you look at somebody who is distressing you, you never look at them
in their totality. You look specifically at their bad habits, at their
bad characteristics. You ignore the kindnesses that were expressed
yesterday, or even this morning. You ignore, more than anything, the
fact that because they exist, they are the effect of their Creator and
therefore are holy. You pick them apart into little, disconnected
pieces, and then you confront them with this sort of patchwork quilt of
a characteristic, of a caricature of them. And you try to prove to them
that they are what you are seeing, and that they should be ashamed of
it, and that they should feel guilty for it, and that they owe you
something for the distress it has caused you.

Always the correction of a problem with another involves first starting
with the Ultimate Truth about them. For example: &ldquo;This is
God&rsquo;s Beloved Son or Daughter in whom He is well pleased. This one
is not who I conceive themselves to be at the moment while I&rsquo;m in
my emotional twit. If this one exists at all, good or bad, he or she
exists because God is being them right there. And so I choose to
approach them and consider them in my mind on the basis of that ultimate
fact. And I will do that in order to get through and past the bits and
pieces, the bad bits and pieces of them that I have collected together
to characterize them in my mind, so that I might confirm to them the
Truth about them, rather than the misperception I have created of them
by tearing them into bits and pieces.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego will ALWAYS substitute chaos for meaning, for if separation is
salvation&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in other words, if independence is so goddamned great, then
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; harmony &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; togetherness. Yielding. Acceptance &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is threat.
</div>

Ah, to be the self-made man&mdash;and lately, recently, to be the
self-made woman&mdash;that is the big goal.

But not one of you means anything all by yourself, because not any one
of you exists all by yourself. And you certainly can&rsquo;t exist at
the expense of everyone else. And waking up is learning how you fit in
with everything else and how everything else fits in with you, and how
essential you are to them and how essential they are to you. But this is
threatening to the ethic of being a self-made authorizer, a self-made
person.

We&rsquo;ve discussed it before: Love is the answer. And Love is
embrace. Love is inclusion. Love is the willingness to acknowledge the
best in each other, instead of confirming the worst. Waking up therefore
means actually changing your behavior&mdash;your mental behavior first,
and then your external behavior to be consistent with it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego&rsquo;s interpretation of the laws of perception are, and would
HAVE to be, the exact opposite of the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s. The ego
focuses on ERROR, and overlooks TRUTH.
</div>

Which means, since it&rsquo;s the opposite of the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s,
that the Holy Spirit focuses on Truth and overlooks error. But the
arrogance of the ego insists upon looking at a Brother and pointing out
their errors so that it might get a leg up on the situation and stand
taller and gain some importance by virtue of having leverage, and
thereby control over the one who&rsquo;s been put in second place; the
opposite of inclusion and the establishment of
estrangement&mdash;separation.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the ego &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; makes real EVERY mistake it perceives, and with
characteristically circular reasoning concludes that BECAUSE of the
mistake, consistent truth must be meaningless. The next step, then, is
obvious. If consistent truth is meaningless, INCONSISTENCY must be true
if truth &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in its definition &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; has meaning.
</div>

Well, the statement is quite popular, &ldquo;Well, everyone creates his
own reality so truth is only consistent with the current definition of
reality that anyone is using.&rdquo;

And, of course, what is true will depend upon how much self-protection
is needed at any given moment, because if one is vulnerable then what
the other person doesn&rsquo;t know won&rsquo;t hurt him. And so one
will refrain from being honest with his neighbor, or his friend, or his
spouse, and so on. And so truth is inconsistent and it becomes that
which serves the safety of one who consciously chooses to be in the
world deceitfully. And if that can be practiced well and apparently
successfully, it proves that inconsistency is a truth and is to be
valued. It is an essential of life.

Now some practice this to the extreme, and others practice it more
subtly. Most all of you practice it subtly. But you know what? As long
as you have agendas of your own that you&rsquo;re engaged in
accomplishing without ever having asked the Father or the Holy Spirit
whether this identifies fulfillment for you, you are creating your own
reality, living in your own concepts of what is real, and thereby living
in a made-up world and sense of self that causes you not to be honest
with each other, with your fellowman. And you think you&rsquo;re doing
this for your survival, which justifies it.

Whether you are consciously aware of the subtleties of your valuing
truth as that which is inconsistent, you can begin to move out of it by
choosing to listen, by choosing to refer to the Holy Spirit or God, and
ask, &ldquo;Is this appropriate for me? Is this that I am thinking about
doing in harmony with my true fulfillment? And if it isn&rsquo;t, what
is?&rdquo; Well, I know some of you say, &ldquo;Been there, done that. I
didn&rsquo;t get any answers. Doesn&rsquo;t work for me; maybe it worked
for you. But didn&rsquo;t work for me. End of story.&rdquo; I will tell
you something. It will work for you if you will persist, if you will let
your intent be singular&mdash;if you will do it not as a test of God,
but as an opportunity, for once, to be consistent yourself in a
continuing manner.

Now you don&rsquo;t have to wait until the axe falls and you&rsquo;re
truly under the gun, and you have no choice but to reach out for God or
to rely on God with persistence and with consistence and with
commitment. You can do it under less stressful conditions, but it will
seem to be harder in a way because you will seem to have the opportunity
to continue to live without doing it and not suffer too much.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Holding error clearly in mind, and protecting what it has made real, the
ego proceeds to the next step in its thought system; that error is real
and TRUTH IS ERROR.
</div>

&ldquo;Well, you know, God didn&rsquo;t really mean for me to be
constantly yielding to Him. God gave me free will. And He meant for me
to practice free will, and to learn how to practice it well. God gave me
the capacity to be independent from Him in order to learn how to be like
Him on my own.&rdquo; And so it makes something utterly insane a
fundamental of sanity, and justifies it by saying that was what God
intended.

But if you want to learn to be like God, you need to yield into God. Not
so that you can by virtue of being an independent thing that yielded
into your Father&rsquo;s arms, learned to be like Him, but because you
yielded into Him by abandoning a sense of separateness from Him, and let
His Mind be in you. And the question comes up again, &ldquo;How do I do
that?&rdquo; Well, you do it by desiring to have the experience and not
abandoning the desire. Persisting in it. There&rsquo;s no simpler way I
can put it. And like I said, when it comes right down to a trial in your
experience, you may finally find yourself willing to provide that kind
of persistent, consistent intent with commitment.

And whenever anyone has done that, they have found themselves being
transformed. They say, &ldquo;I went through a catharsis. You would not
believe what happened to me! I&rsquo;ll be glad to tell you,
though.&rdquo; And you tell them, and everyone else catches the spirit
of it and recognizes the truth of it and is inspired by it. But, oh,
God, let&rsquo;s hope you don&rsquo;t have another catharsis. You see?
&ldquo;It was a wonderful experience, but I wouldn&rsquo;t want to stay
in the middle of it where I was constantly being transformed.&rdquo; But
that is what you want. And that is what you need.

Again.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Holding error clearly in mind, and protecting what it has made real, the
ego proceeds to the next step in its thought system; that error is real
and TRUTH IS ERROR.
</div>

Now continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego makes no attempt to understand this, and it is clearly NOT
understandable, but the ego does make EVERY attempt to DEMONSTRATE it,
and this it does constantly.
</div>

You&rsquo;ve seen people, they get their minds set on a
thing&mdash;whether it makes sense or not, whether it&rsquo;s
intelligent or not&mdash;they know it&rsquo;s true and they&rsquo;re
going to push through, come hell or high water. And no matter how much
intelligent reasoning is shared with them, they will not abandon their
focus on their goal. And they see all expressions of help as a lack of
respect of them. And they will determine that all of these other things
that are being said are just your opinion&mdash;&ldquo;Well,
that&rsquo;s just your opinion&rdquo;&mdash;completely overlooking the
fact that they&rsquo;re basing their actions on their opinion, and not
their experience of Truth. And if you try to point that out to them,
heaven help you!

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Analyzing to attack meaning, the ego DOES succeed in overlooking it, and
is left with a series of fragmented perceptions which it unifies on
behalf of ITSELF.
</div>

Somebody says to them, &ldquo;What you&rsquo;re saying doesn&rsquo;t
make sense.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Oh! Well, it makes sense to me! And that&rsquo;s all that
matters. It&rsquo;s my world. That it doesn&rsquo;t make sense to you
is, well, that&rsquo;s your reality. So bug off!&rdquo;

Now I&rsquo;m speaking of those who are more aggressively into this, but
you all do it in one way or another with little things, like how the
office ought to be arranged, or how the files should be kept in the
filing cabinet, when someone else is expressing a different idea.

&ldquo;Well, that&rsquo;s just your opinion. This works for me.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Well, but it doesn&rsquo;t work for the whole office.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Well, nobody appreciates the filing system that I&rsquo;m using.
If everybody appreciated it, they would find that it really did work
well for them. No one wants to understand the simplicity of the way I
have it set up.&rdquo; You see?

Again.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Analyzing to attack meaning, the ego DOES succeed in overlooking it, and
is left with a series of fragmented perceptions which it unifies on
behalf of ITSELF.
</div>

Of course, not on behalf of anyone else.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This, then, becomes &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the universe it perceives.
</div>

&ldquo;It&rsquo;s my reality.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And it is this universe which, in turn, becomes its demonstration of its
own reality.
</div>

If you, or if an ego does not have its own unique thoughts which it can
act out and demonstrate the so-called intelligence of, it has done
nothing to make its mark in the world. It has done nothing to
demonstrate its presence. And so it is essential for the ego to do
something on its own and cause others to recognize it in order to secure
its so-called existence as something actual.

Now mind you, this ego is just a picture you are employing about
yourself. But the &ldquo;you&rdquo; that is employing it, is far greater
than the concept of yourself. The &ldquo;you&rdquo; that is employing
it, is the Ultimate, the Christ, having forgotten who he or she is
because of the fun of trying to do the impossible&mdash;to demonstrate a
self-made existence, you see, and to prove that you in your own right
are something. And that&rsquo;s how you are hooked. That&rsquo;s how you
become addicted to independence and illusion.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Do not underestimate the appeal of the ego&rsquo;s demonstrations to
those who would listen. Selective perception chooses its witnesses
carefully, and its witnesses ARE consistent. The case for insanity IS
strong to the insane. For reasoning ends at its beginning, and no
thought system transcends its source.

&hellip; reasoning ends at its beginning, and no thought
system transcends its source.
</div>

That&rsquo;s rather like saying that if you are writing out an equation
on the blackboard that takes up eight or ten rows, and in the first
couple of sets of equations there&rsquo;s an error, that error will be
reflected in everything else that follows. And the equation will never
be able to transcend the error. You see?

What&rsquo;s the fundamental error? The fundamental error is that
you&rsquo;re something in your own right who, you say, God created that
way for your own fulfillment and your own development and your own
growth, and therefore &hellip; You see? And right now what has been said
so far has an error in it&mdash;is erroneous&mdash;so whatever follows
after &ldquo;and therefore&rdquo; will not be able to transcend that.

And of course, what follows is that you are going to devote your life to
fulfilling the Father&rsquo;s intent. You are going to be the best
damned self-made person that ever existed, and you are going to make
your parents proud. Because, of course, your parents taught you,
&ldquo;You don&rsquo;t want to be dependent upon society. You
don&rsquo;t want to be on welfare. You want to be respectable,
don&rsquo;t you?&rdquo;&mdash;which, of course, the child hears as,
&ldquo;You want me to see you as respectable, right?&rdquo; You want to
be respectable so, man, oh, man, you don&rsquo;t waste a moment &hellip;
you don&rsquo;t waste a moment checking in with God anymore, because
that&rsquo;s not what God put you here for. God put you here for the
purpose of ignoring Him and taking the tools that He gave you to be on
your own and make something of yourself. That&rsquo;s the fundamental
mistake in the equation.

And you correct the fundamental mistake in the equation by approaching
each event in your day, every conscious awareness of things with the
Father, or with the Holy Spirit, or with your Guide&mdash;with one who
is Awake and will not be fooled by all the tricky, little techniques you
have for finagling jewels of wisdom that you can then use to be a better
independent entity. You need to choose to be together with, not alone;
joined, not isolated. And to the best of your ability, maintain this as
you go through the day. It&rsquo;s good to have a Friend. It&rsquo;s
good not to be alone. It&rsquo;s good to be working with someone who
constantly sees the excellence of you, and therefore is constantly
confirming to you that which is in your best interest and that which, if
you pay attention to it, moves you into your Sanity, which is always an
impactful and awesome experience.

Again.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The case for insanity IS strong to the insane. For reasoning ends at its
beginning, and no thought system transcends its source. Yet reasoning
without meaning CANNOT demonstrate anything, and those who are convinced
by it MUST be deluded. Can the ego teach truly when it OVERLOOKS truth?
</div>

Can you experience truly when you&rsquo;re looking at things without the
perspective of a Companion who sees it as it truly is?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Can it &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the ego &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; perceive what it has DENIED? Its witnesses DO attest to its
denial, but hardly to what it has denied!
</div>

&ldquo;Yeah, man, you&rsquo;re on the right track. Yeah, man, go for it.
Do it. I wanna do it, too, but you do it. You do it first. Do it! Do it!
Do it!&rdquo; You see? &ldquo;Do it, and do it
successfully&rdquo;&mdash;so that I won&rsquo;t have to look at the fact
that my Good has already been done to me; my Good has already been given
to me; my Good is already mine without my having to lift a finger in
order to deserve it; fulfillment is the law of my Being.

&ldquo;Yeah, man, but you&rsquo;re just being a kept person.
You&rsquo;re not being anything yourself. How can you respect
yourself?&rdquo; You see the temptation? You are constantly tempted by
the promise of worth that will become yours when you have done well. And
if you accept that premise, whatever follows cannot transcend the flaw
in that premise.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego looks straight at the Father and does not see Him, for it
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the ego &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; has denied His Son.
</div>

Every practice of authority, every practice of independence is a denial
of What You Are.

&ldquo;No, I&rsquo;m not the Son of God. I am a creation of God which
God has set into place to become something. And He&rsquo;s given me all
the tools to do it, and I&rsquo;m going to do the best job
anyone&rsquo;s ever done.&rdquo;

You see? It overlooks the Son of God that you are. It distracts you from
the Son of God that you are. And it appeals to a perverted sense of
arrogance that makes you feel like going for it, instead of saying,
&ldquo;Wait a minute. There is another way to look at this that&rsquo;s
true. And I am going to choose to stay with what is true.&rdquo; Or:
&ldquo;I am choosing to return to what is true. And I&rsquo;m going to
become still. And I&rsquo;m going to turn within to that Place of
Excellence in me. I&rsquo;m going to turn within toward the Holy Spirit,
my right Mind, so that I might be reminded of my true Sonship or
Daughtership as the Direct Expression of God, so that I might experience
God right here where I am and the fulfillment that I am told I will
experience if I do that.&rdquo;

Now mind you, we&rsquo;ve been talking about the ego and the
characteristics of the ego, the dynamics of the ego, and we&rsquo;ve
related it to stuff that goes on in your mind. And I&rsquo;ve pointed
out that it&rsquo;s stuff that doesn&rsquo;t need to go on in your mind,
and it is stuff that it&rsquo;s not your Birthright to be experiencing
as the daily jumble of ideas that fill your mind. So it might sound as
though I&rsquo;m talking about you, you really messed-up people, and
I&rsquo;m not. It is important to know that you are not your ego, even
though you may be playing with its dynamics. And because at this moment
you are the Christ, having forgotten Who You Are, because you&rsquo;ve
been distracted by this mental strategy; this means of somehow creating
for yourself an experience of independence. You can abandon that
strategy because you are the Christ; you are not the ego.

And so, I am speaking to that in you which is Real; that in you which is
True. I&rsquo;m appealing to it so that you will, perhaps, choose to be
out from that vantage point; a little more consistency consistently each
day so as to break the habit of isolation. And the best way to do it is
to just constantly be asking, &ldquo;God, what&rsquo;s going on right
there with that lady? God, what&rsquo;s going on right there with that
man? God, what&rsquo;s going on there with that child? God, what&rsquo;s
the divine Meaning of this tree or this plant?&rdquo;&mdash;constantly
expressing curiosity to understand (and I&rsquo;m going to use that word
carefully), to have an experience of the Meaning of those things that
goes beyond my best imaginations, my best concepts, and my pet theories.
I want to see more than I&rsquo;m seeing. I want to see without the
impediments of the flaws in the beginning of my equations.&rdquo; You
see? Because there is fulfillment in front of you that you&rsquo;re not
seeing. And there is no justifiable reason for you not to be seeing it.
The Power of the Universe, the Power of the Authority of God stands
behind your experiencing it.

So bring a little willingness, but bring it consistently. Bring it
persistently, even if you do it with a light touch. You don&rsquo;t have
to do it with a vengeance. Just do it persistently, consistently, with
the element of joyous curiosity.

I know this isn&rsquo;t really the fun part of the Course, but
it&rsquo;s essential to look at the reality of the way the game works in
order to be able to say, &ldquo;I think I don&rsquo;t want to persist in
this game. I think I do not want to persist in this strategy. I think I
would like to try something else.&rdquo; Because the minute you begin to
do that with some commitment, the Power of the Authority of God stands
ready to reveal to you what you&rsquo;ve been looking at and not seeing.
God is on your side, truly. And you don&rsquo;t have to earn the right
to have His Gift. You only have to bring a little willingness,
persistently, consistently, with commitment.

Okay. I look forward to being with you next week. Thank you.

[^1]: T10.5 The 'Dynamics' of the Ego

