---
title: Oct 16, 2005
ref: "T10.6 Experience and Perception"
alink: "/acim/text/10/chap1005/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who is joining us on the Internet.

Before we continue, I want to expand a little bit on what we talked
about last week. And I used the example of a stray animal coming to your
doorstep and varying responses. It&rsquo;s important to understand that
there are two kinds of strays who can come to your door, and there are
also two kinds of individuals to respond to the strays. And if you
don&rsquo;t understand this, then you can become caught in a game, a
power struggle, between providing help and the request for help.

Now, the pet lover to whom the stray animal comes will, as we described
last week, not base his or her behavior on the presenting behavior that
the animal is showing, but will base his or her responses upon the love
that he or she feels, and the insight or clarity he or she has about
what this animal is capable of in terms of receiving love and being
blessed by it.

Now, if you notice in my example I spoke about a stray dog coming to
your door, but what about those who don&rsquo;t wait for the stray to
come to the door, but go out looking for them? Those who do that are
commonly called dogcatchers. The motive is entirely different from the
pet lover who is willing to stand in receipt of and be inclusive of this
forlorn one who comes for help. And [laughing] it doesn&rsquo;t take but
a moment for an animal to recognize the motivation, and when a
dogcatcher is in the area, they run. Why? Because it is the intent of
the dogcatcher to take possession, to enforce order into the
animal&rsquo;s life. The dogcatcher&rsquo;s motivation is getting, and
the pet lover&rsquo;s motivation is giving. Now last week I didn&rsquo;t
talk at all about going out and finding those who need help, so that you
might bless them with what you have to give. And I&rsquo;m not going to
talk about that this week either, because that&rsquo;s not what this is
all about.

Now there are two kinds of strays, let&rsquo;s say, forlorn, needy
individuals or animals. There are those who come to you for help who are
truly at the end of their rope and recognize that there must be a
different way, and want to find out what it is, and are not so puffed up
within themselves that they are unwilling to let something new in and
change. And then there are others who come to you for help who are
suffering, but the help they want is for you to help them help remove
the suffering without their having to change&mdash;which is impossible.
You must learn to discern the difference. Because if you don&rsquo;t
discern the difference, you will likely continue to put yourself in the
messiness of the intimacy of an unintelligent and unclear
relationship&mdash;unintelligent and unclear because one in the
relationship wants the impossible. They want to be relieved of their
suffering without having to change the way they&rsquo;re living their
lives, the way they are thinking, the way they are believing.

You say, &ldquo;Well, my willingness to come from my love, because of
its divine nature, has to have the capacity of reaching them, has to
have the capacity of, I&rsquo;m going to say, finessing change, even
though they don&rsquo;t want to change.&rdquo; And I&rsquo;m here to
tell you right now that that is impossible. And if you do not recognize
its impossibility, you will find yourself entangled in a power play that
you won&rsquo;t be able to get out of, that you will find yourself
sucked into the depths of, the confusion of, and the suffering of. When
you recognize that the one asking for help is asking for help that
can&rsquo;t be given because the impossible can&rsquo;t be done, you
must stop trying to help them accomplish the impossible. And you must
step back. This is an instance when two people meet only to part,
because intelligence governs and what does not match, what cannot match,
must not attempt to match, must not attempt to engage. Because one says
the engagement can only be for one purpose: to relieve suffering without
changing what is causing the suffering. Until the one coming and asking
for help is hungry for actual help, you must not take the bait.

Now this does not mean that you are going to use your mind poorly. It
means that when you have drawn the line, as it were, and said,
&ldquo;thus far and no farther,&rdquo; and you withdraw from the
engagement, you must continue, persist in coming from the Place of
Excellence in you. You must persist in coming from the love in you that
you feel, so that you can continue to acknowledge What Is True about
them, and do not lapse in, what we could call, your faith in them; do
not lapse in your trust in What They Truly Are.

You do not engage in frustration because they won&rsquo;t listen to
you&mdash;because then you shift into the dogcatcher mentality. You do
not feel that you are somehow incompetent, because you couldn&rsquo;t
reach them, and sit hard on yourself. You recognize that this one who is
calling for help is indeed the Son of God not knowing it, not believing
that they are, but using the power that they have to be devoted to their
misperception, with such power that until they change their decision,
there is nothing you can do. And so you recognize that until they are
hungry, until there is desire to do whatever it takes to do the
essential thing that it takes to be relieved of suffering, you
don&rsquo;t engage with them. And you persist in your peace,
contemplating them, or whenever they come to your mind, considering them
from the standpoint of what they divinely Are, and that it is the
Father&rsquo;s Will for them to know what they Are, and that you love
what they Are, because there is nothing unlovable about what they truly
Are, even though they are believing that they are something different.

And so you do not violate your function, which is to recognize the
Presence of God in each and every thing, and to let in the feeling or
the experience of the Truth of that. You persist in being singular,
non-conflicted within yourself, extending the blessing of the
recognition of their divinity to them. In other words, you continue to
send out messengers of Truth. But you do not engage with them, because
their conscious intent in the engagement is to be deceitful, is to be
self-serving. They are in a mode of defense, seeing their world as
hostile, and they are not willing to abandon that yet. And therefore,
they are unable to see you as anything other than as manipulative as
them, and that the simple love you are extending is a ploy to get
control over them, because their means of existing is one entirely of
control and manipulation, and they see what they&rsquo;re looking with.

Your behavior, you cannot afford to let your behavior be based upon what
they are presenting, but you also express enough wisdom not to engage
with them in an impossible venture. And as long as they insist upon
engaging in that venture, you say &ldquo;no.&rdquo; And you butt out
from an involvement level, from an engagement level, but you do not butt
out in your mind. You do not abandon your desire and your willingness to
see the Presence of God there because that&rsquo;s the only thing that
can be there. And you embrace them in that love, just as you would a
stray animal.

Now this is very important. A dogcatcher, in terms of what we&rsquo;re
talking about, is very much like a proselytizer; someone who is going to
go out and change people&rsquo;s minds about what the truth is, so that
they might be saved. It&rsquo;s also similar to a third party who comes
into involvement with two partners who are married, and engages in his
wiles, let&rsquo;s say, and slowly gets the affections of the wife away
from the husband. This is called &ldquo;alienation of affection&rdquo;
and is punishable by law. Now, in other words, it is recognized to be
unlawful, unprincipled, and something that &ldquo;no&rdquo; has to be
said to. When you approach someone who is devoted to the voice for fear
that&rsquo;s governing them, and you try to forcefully change them,
you&rsquo;re engaging in an attempt to alienate their affections from
this false teacher. Correct? But this false teacher is their god. In
fact, it&rsquo;s their own defense mechanism. It is what they think is
keeping them safe, even though they&rsquo;re miserable. And any attempt
you make to alienate their affection from their god, will cause you to
be the recipient of the wrath of their god. And this will always be the
case until something happens within them that causes them to withdraw
their devotion, until something happens that causes them to lose their
faith in their mindset.

And so, what I&rsquo;m saying is understand that you cannot do the
impossible. It is impossible to do the impossible. Don&rsquo;t let
someone imploring you for help, fool you into helping because they say,
&ldquo;I know that you&rsquo;re a very spiritual person, and I know that
you have a close relationship with God, and so I&rsquo;m asking you
because of the great faith I know you have, to help me.&rdquo; And then
they&rsquo;ll leave off the last words, &ldquo;Help me not have to
suffer, without having to stop doing what is causing my
suffering.&rdquo; They conveniently leave that unsaid. So be wise.
Don&rsquo;t deal with strays who haven&rsquo;t come to your door.

And when strays do come to your door, be alert to find out whether they
are committed to their lifestyle, and they only want for you to help
alleviate them temporarily of their starvation or their uncleanliness,
so that they might reenergize and persist in the way they choose to
live, persist in doing what causes them to suffer. Be alert for that so
that you don&rsquo;t play into it, and then suffer the disillusionment,
the discovery, that you&rsquo;ve been played like a harp, because you
weren&rsquo;t alert and you didn&rsquo;t know that some things are
impossible, and that when the invitation to do the impossible is
extended to you, you must, no matter how unloving the other says you
are, say, &ldquo;No. We cannot communicate. We cannot relate because you
want me to do the impossible, and I know better than to do it. And I
will not engage in argument or discussion so that you might change my
mind or show me where I&rsquo;m wrong. Conversation ended. Involvement
ended. Period.&rdquo; That is wisdom, and that is love.

And as they go on their way, you embrace them from the love in you that
can and does recognize their divinity, and knows that they deserve to be
experiencing better than what they&rsquo;re allowing them[selves] to
experience. And by doing so, you stay in your singularity, rather than
becoming conflicted within yourself and losing your capacity to witness
for God, and thereby voluntarily, but unintelligently, abandon your
function.

Okay. I hope that is clarifying. More than that, I know that it is.

Last week we read:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Would you join in the resurrection or the crucifixion?
</div>

And I pointed out, that all day long, you are choosing for one or the
other. And for the most part, you vacillate back and forth. You&rsquo;re
not persistent or consistent. But you must understand that you are
either joining in the Resurrection or the crucifixion, depending upon
the God/god you are serving.

Now, continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[Raj is now reading two paragraphs down] I am YOUR resurrection and YOUR
life. You live in me because you live in God. And everyone lives in YOU,
as YOU live in everyone.
</div>

You see? There is no inequity. There&rsquo;s no inequality. You are all
Sons and Daughters of God. You are all Brothers and Sisters. You are all
equal in inheritance, if you will. You are all the loveliness of capital
&ldquo;L&rdquo; Love&mdash;the Presence of God.

And you must be willing to consider each other in that way, so as not to
be introducing conflicting perceptions into the picture, and thus
breaking the singularity, and separating yourself from all of your
Brothers and Sisters by virtue of choosing to believe something that
isn&rsquo;t true.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Can you, then, perceive unworthiness in a brother and NOT perceive it in
yourself?
</div>

No. Because everything is a singularity and a consistency, whatever you
believe about yourself you will equally apply to everyone else. And
believe or not, what you believe about everyone else you equally apply
to yourself, but you conveniently tuck that way into a back corner of
your mind. I will tell you something: what you do not believe you are
capable of, you will not believe another is capable of. It&rsquo;s that
simple.

Again.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Can you, then, perceive unworthiness in a brother and NOT perceive it in
yourself? And can you perceive it in yourself and NOT perceive it in
God?
</div>

Whatever flaws you think you have, you also think God has.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Believe in the resurrection because it has BEEN accomplished, and it has
been accomplished IN YOU.
</div>

You see? So I resurrected; you say, &ldquo;Well, every Easter we
celebrate Jesus&rsquo; Resurrection.&rdquo; You see?

But you also believe that existence, that being is fragmented, and
therefore Jesus has experienced the resurrection, but not you.
You&rsquo;re somebody else. You&rsquo;re unrelated. You aren&rsquo;t the
same one. What is true of him is not true of you, because you&rsquo;re
unique. You are your own person. And so you, like Jesus, must
demonstrate your own resurrection. But it happens that things
aren&rsquo;t really tough enough at the moment for you to engage in the
resurrection, so [small laugh] one of these days you may tackle that.
It&rsquo;s easier to tackle a low bank account or, you know, an angry
wife than to tackle your resurrection. So you see yourself as quite
independent and autonomous, but your salvation doesn&rsquo;t lie in that
picture you have created about yourself of being separate and different.

If I demonstrated the resurrection, if I manifested or embodied the
resurrection, it was embodied as a fact&mdash;not just a possibility,
not just a wild pipe dream&mdash;but as a fact about everyone eternally,
infinitely. At the moment of the resurrection, the belief in the
impossibility of resurrection was broken forever in everyone. It was
done for you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Believe in the resurrection because it has BEEN accomplished, and it has
been accomplished IN YOU. This is as true now as it will ever be, for
the resurrection is the Will of God, Which knows no time and no
exceptions. But make no exceptions yourself&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; which, of course, you&rsquo;ve already been doing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
But make no exceptions yourself, or you will not perceive what has been
accomplished FOR you.
</div>

You see, because it was accomplished for you, you don&rsquo;t have to do
it over again. You are at a point where you can move on from the
Resurrection to the Ascension, if you will. You don&rsquo;t have to
muddle &rsquo;round in finding out how to have your own resurrection.
You don&rsquo;t have to muddle around in discovering and being the
embodiment of the fact that there is no death. The problem doesn&rsquo;t
have to be solved again. You&rsquo;re free to go on, letting in the
experience of Eternal Life right now, right here, today. That&rsquo;s
the territory you&rsquo;re now in.

But you&rsquo;re behaving as though you&rsquo;re still in the old,
mortal veil, having to find a way to overcome death. It&rsquo;s
self-defeating to try to accomplish something that&rsquo;s already been
accomplished for you, as though it never was accomplished.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; make no exceptions yourself, or you will not perceive what has
been accomplished FOR you. For we ascend unto the Father together, as it
was in the beginning, is now, and ever shall be, for such is the nature
of God&rsquo;s Son as His Father created him.
</div>

Such is your Nature as the Father created you.

[talking to each individual present] Not just your nature or your
nature&mdash;not your nature, and your nature, and your nature, and your
nature, and your nature, and your nature&mdash;and the nature of
everyone listening&mdash;as though there were a whole bunch of natures.
We are all one, infinite embodiment of God; of one, singular,
unfragmentable Presence of Conscious Life.

What you&rsquo;re all waking up to is the fact that the whole human
condition never happened; the whole dream of mortality never happened;
that Creation&mdash;in its absolute, eternal divinity&mdash;was never
altered for a second, which means none of you was altered for a second.
You&rsquo;ve just become obsessed with an idea that you have turned into
a perception that causes you to define everything as something other
than it is, but which hasn&rsquo;t accomplished changing what everything
is. It&rsquo;s just left you demented and deceived. But you can become
free of the deception, to find out that it never was real. Again, you
are neither behind the Point of Perfection nor advancing toward it; you
are at that Point and you must understand yourself therefrom.

Now continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Do not underestimate the power of the devotion of God&rsquo;s
Son&hellip;

Do not underestimate the power of the devotion of God&rsquo;s
Son, nor the power of the god he worships over him.
</div>

This is key statement:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Do not underestimate the power of the devotion of God&rsquo;s
Son&hellip;
</div>

Whether it&rsquo;s your devotion or a neighbor&rsquo;s devotion, do not
underestimate the power of your devotion, because you are the
&ldquo;God&rsquo;s Son,&rdquo; nor the power of the god you worship, nor
the power of the god you worship over you. Do not underestimate the
power the god you worship has over you. The power your god has over you
is equal to the power of the devotion you bring to that god. And because
you are the Christ, unconscious of the Christhood of yourself, you, your
devotion is absolute; is utterly powerful.

And that&rsquo;s why when a Brother comes to you and says, &ldquo;Help
me. I am miserable. I am on my last legs. I am suffering greatly. Help
me not suffer, without making me change the behavior that&rsquo;s
causing my suffering,&rdquo; you may know that that one is devoted to
the behavior that is causing his suffering. And his behavior is &hellip;
is the power of his devotion to it is absolute. And so you recognize
this. You honor the fact that the one who is requesting you to do the
impossible, and who is miserable at his own hand, is the Christ behaving
in a way that&rsquo;s causing him suffering, and is devoted to it with
all the power of the Christ that there is, and therefore there is
nothing you can do.

Again.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Do not underestimate the power of the devotion of God&rsquo;s Son, nor
the power of the god he worships over him. For he places HIMSELF
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and you all do this.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; he places HIMSELF at the altar of his god, whether it be the
god he made &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; he made up &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; or the God Who created him.
</div>

Listen to that again.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For he places HIMSELF at the altar of his god, whether it be the god he
made or the God Who created him. That is why his slavery is as complete
as his freedom, for he will obey ONLY the god he accepts.
</div>

All of you, at one time or another, have or will need to be able to
disentangle yourselves from entanglements&mdash;messy, sticky, miserable
entanglements with those asking for help that cannot be given, who will
expect you to try to give it anyway. And you need to understand that
because their devotion to their false god is the devotion of a Christ
unaware of Who He Is and that therefore the power of the devotion is
absolute, means that you can do nothing to alter it until that one has
arrived, for his own reasons, at a willingness to abandon that devotion.
And your recognition of that is not unloving, and it is not something
you can actually be faulted for, because it expresses utter
intelligence.

I&rsquo;m going to read this paragraph again so that it registers
clearly and simply.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Do not underestimate the power of the devotion of God&rsquo;s Son, nor
the power of the god he worships over him. For he places HIMSELF at the
altar of his god, whether it be the god he made or the God Who created
him. That is why his slavery is as complete as his freedom, for he will
obey ONLY the god he accepts. The god of the crucifixion demands that he
crucify, and his worshippers obey. In his name they crucify
THEMSELVES&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; which is, of course, why they&rsquo;re suffering.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; believing that the power of the Son of God &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the true Son of God &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is born of sacrifice and pain. The God of the resurrection
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and I&rsquo;m going to add: On the other hand &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; demands NOTHING, for He does not will to take away. He does not
require obedience, for obedience implies submission.
</div>

You see? Control, authority exercised and domination successfully
exercised.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He does not require obedience, for obedience implies submission. He
would only have you learn your OWN will and follow it, not in the spirit
of sacrifice and submission, but in the gladness of freedom.
</div>

You see? The prisoner in his cell with a gate on the cell that&rsquo;s
unlocked and that has never been locked, who is enjoying self-imposed
incarceration, is likely to say to the one who says, &ldquo;Hey, try the
door. It&rsquo;s not locked. Come on out. Come out in the fresh air and
the sunshine and be free,&rdquo; &ldquo;Well, wait a minute. Why would I
want to do that? I get three square meals a day in here. I&rsquo;m able
to stay clean. I don&rsquo;t have to be responsible for anything.
I&rsquo;m a pretty happy camper. I get along fairly well with most of
the other prisoners. Why would I give up such a good deal?&rdquo; You
see? Well, don&rsquo;t waste your breath when someone is insisting on
their incarceration. Don&rsquo;t try to enforce freedom on someone who
diligently avoids it. The one inside the cell is the only one who can
open the gate. And he won&rsquo;t open it until something in him wants
to get out, is hungry for something other than the status quo that
he&rsquo;s become comfortable with, even though he is in prison. You
see? Again, a man convinced against his will is of the same opinion
still.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Resurrection must compel your allegiance &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; another word for devotion. And of course, we&rsquo;re not to,
you are not to underestimate the power of the devotion of God&rsquo;s
Son.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Resurrection must compel your allegiance gladly because it is the symbol
of joy.
</div>

Not because it&rsquo;s the symbol of obedience. Not because it&rsquo;s
the symbol of your having been subjected to someone who has a louder
voice, or more apparent power than you have.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Resurrection must compel your allegiance gladly because it is the symbol
of joy. Its whole compelling power lies in the fact that it represents
what YOU want to be.
</div>

Not what I want for you. Not what anybody else wants for you. Not what
anyone else thinks you ought to have.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Its whole compelling power lies in the fact that it represents what YOU
want to be. The freedom to leave behind everything that hurts you and
humbles you and frightens you &hellip;
</div>

Listen to this.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; cannot be thrust upon you&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and likewise, you cannot thrust it upon anyone else &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; but &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; it can be offered through you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; it CAN be offered you through &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the grace of God. And you can ACCEPT it by His grace, for God
IS gracious to His Son, accepting him without question as His Own.
</div>

You see? Waking up means that you&rsquo;re willing to accept God without
question as your Father, so that you might once again remember Who You
Are&mdash;His Son, His Daughter, His Self-Expression.

Again.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The freedom to leave behind everything that hurts you and humbles you
and frightens you cannot be thrust upon you, but it CAN be offered you
through the grace of God.
</div>

In other words, for no good reason. Just because. Just because
that&rsquo;s the way it is. Just because.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And you can ACCEPT it by His grace, for God IS gracious to His Son,
accepting him without question as His Own. Who, then, is YOUR own?
</div>

Who are you going to accept as your own?

Are you going to accept me as your own? Or are you going to dissociate
me from you, and say, &ldquo;Jesus is different. Jesus is the only
begotten Son of the Father. Jesus is the Wayshower. He&rsquo;s not like
me. I&rsquo;m the one being shown. I&rsquo;m different. Jesus is the
Teacher, and I am the student.&rdquo; You see? You see how all of these
words provide definitions of inequality? And you use these definitions
to ensure that you will not have to remember Who You Are and embrace
your Good by grace, just because it&rsquo;s there for you, because
it&rsquo;s the Reality of you.

What about your Brother and your Sister, even the ones who are insisting
upon asking you to help them accomplish the impossible? Are they your
own? Or are you going to keep them separate; distinguish them from you?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Father has given you all that is His, and He Himself is yours WITH
them.
</div>

You see, it&rsquo;s all a Singularity. It isn&rsquo;t a fragmented
conglomeration of bits and pieces that maybe were once joined, but
aren&rsquo;t anymore and aren&rsquo;t supposed to be anymore, but they
all have something common in their background. No.

[Raj reads it differently] The Father has given you all that He is, and
He Himself is yours WITH them.

He is yours because He is your Father. He is What gives you your
Identity. He is What Is Being your existence.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Father has given you all that is His, and He Himself is yours WITH
them. Guard them in their resurrection, &hellip;
</div>

Your Brothers and Sisters. Your stray dogs. The ones who want help that
can&rsquo;t be given.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Guard them in their resurrection&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in other words, continue to perform your function of
recognizing the Presence of God in everything you see, even if those you
are seeing are claiming something different about themselves.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Guard them in their resurrection, for otherwise you will not awake in
God, safely surrounded by what is yours forever.

You will not find peace until you have removed the nails from the hands
of God&rsquo;s Son and taken the last thorn from his forehead.
</div>

Remember last week I pointed out to you that you can&rsquo;t really dare
to acknowledge that anyone else is the Son of God until you&rsquo;re
able to acknowledge that you&rsquo;re the Son of God. Because otherwise
all you&rsquo;ll be doing is giving yourself something to be jealous of
and frustrated about, and you&rsquo;re too intelligent to do that. So
it&rsquo;s easier to say, &ldquo;no one is the Son of God,&rdquo; than
to say, &ldquo;someone else is but I&rsquo;m not.&rdquo;

So you start by taking the thorns out of your brow and the nails from
your hands that say in so many words, &ldquo;You&rsquo;re contemptuous.
You are worthless. You&rsquo;re a ne&rsquo;er-do-well claiming to be
something more than you are.&rdquo; No one else is saying this to you;
you&rsquo;re saying it to yourself. And you&rsquo;ve got to stop. And
you have to start apprehending yourself more correctly. You are neither
behind the Point of Perfection, nor advancing toward it; you are at that
Point. The resurrection is already accomplished. Get on with the
business of being the embodiment of the deathlessness of Life, because
that&rsquo;s the arena you&rsquo;re in now. Undo the need for the
crucifixion. Crucifixion is past; resurrection has occurred. Get on with
Life!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Love of God surrounds His Son whom the god of the crucifixion
condemns. Teach not that I died in vain. Teach rather that I did NOT die
by demonstrating that I live IN YOU.
</div>

In other words, by demonstrating that you and I are Brothers and
Sisters; we are kin. We have the same Father. We have the same
inheritance. The Laws of God govern both of us equally and as
completely. And what I am invulnerable to, you are invulnerable to. You
see? It&rsquo;s called being in a new way&mdash;not according to the old
historical records, not according to the old past mutual agreements. You
see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For the UNDOING of the crucifixion of God&rsquo;s Son is the work of the
redemption, in which everyone has a part of equal value. God does not
judge His blameless Son.
</div>

You see? And I know, the sarcasm comes in. &ldquo;Yeah, I know He loved
Jesus. Yeah. My older Brother. He loves Jesus better than me. Obviously
He loved Jesus but, Jesus, look at me. [laughing] Jesus, look at my mom
and dad who died of this or that. Look at my grandparents who suffered
this or that, you know. Yeah, I know God loved Jesus, His Son, but not
me.&rdquo; And you use your mind in this way to push yourself further
and further down into the hole.

And the only reason you&rsquo;re in the hole is because of the way
you&rsquo;re using your mind. You&rsquo;re saying, &ldquo;I am behind
the Point of Perfection, and I am advancing toward it, and it&rsquo;s a
tough row to hoe. It&rsquo;s hard work to advance toward
perfection.&rdquo; You see? More words. More descriptions. &ldquo;Yeah.
Yeah, I&rsquo;m on my way, but it&rsquo;s really hard, and it takes a
lot of fortitude.&rdquo; And all the time you&rsquo;re doing this, all
the time you&rsquo;re going through these contortions, you&rsquo;re
sitting on a grassy knoll in the middle of the Kingdom of Heaven, not
bothering to open up your eyes to see what&rsquo;s really going on,
because you are obsessed with your dream.

You are obsessed with your definitions, and you confirm them over, and
over, and over. You see, this is your devotion to the god you made. And
you know what? There ain&rsquo;t no such god. And if you abandon this
god, everything will not collapse. And if you let there be the littlest
bit of doubt in your mind regarding the validity of this god, and you
let there be a little bit of inquisitiveness, a little bit of desire, a
little bit of genuine hunger for something new, and a willingness to
explore a new way of being, instead of rehearsing the old way of being
over and over again, you will find the Movement of Awakening happening
rapidly.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God does not judge His blameless Son.
</div>

So you stop blaming His blameless Son, whether it&rsquo;s you or your
Brothers.

But again, at the same time that you stop judging His blameless Son who
comes crying to you to help, to ask you to help him do the impossible,
at the same time you recognize that you must refuse that request,
understand that it doesn&rsquo;t mean that you are laying blame there.
It just means that you will not join with and confirm an illusion. And
you will not waste your time trying to do the impossible. And you
continue to love that Brother or that Sister for what that Brother and
Sister truly Are. And you maintain that conscious awareness, to the best
of your ability, because it constitutes you fulfilling your function of
glorifying God right where your Brother says, or your Sister says,
&ldquo;I am not the Presence of God. I am a self-made man, or a
self-made woman, and that&rsquo;s my God-given right. And I expect you
to help me accomplish that without my having to suffer.&rdquo; In the
face of that and your refusal to comply, you continue to remain singular
in your mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God does not judge His blameless Son. Having given HIMSELF &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; God &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; to him&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; His blameless Son &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; how could it be otherwise?

You have nailed YOURSELF to a cross and placed a crown of thorns upon
your OWN head. Yet you CANNOT crucify God&rsquo;s Son, for the Will of
God cannot die.
</div>

You see? You are the expression of His Will. You are the ongoing outcome
of God&rsquo;s Will. &ldquo;Behold, I make all things new.&rdquo; That
is God&rsquo;s Will, and that is what you are the Presence of, the
embodiment of.

But, no.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have nailed YOURSELF to a cross &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you&rsquo;ve adopted this entirely different picture of
yourself.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and placed a crown of thorns upon your OWN head. Yet you CANNOT
crucify God&rsquo;s Son&hellip;
</div>

You can&rsquo;t change What You Are. Even if you become so obsessively
devoted to your self-concept that you think that is what you are, you
can&rsquo;t accomplish the death of God&rsquo;s Son, and in its place
the creation of an independent authorizer having successfully embodied
God&rsquo;s Will for you by becoming &ldquo;as God&rdquo; on your own.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
His Son &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; You &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; HAS BEEN redeemed from his own crucifixion, and you cannot
assign to death whom God has given eternal life.
</div>

Now obviously you can try, and obviously you can suffer from trying, but
you can&rsquo;t accomplish it. And the suffering can end the moment you
abandon the attempt to do the impossible.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The dream of crucifixion still lies heavy on your eyes, but what you see
in dreams is not reality. While you perceive the Son of God as crucified
you are asleep. And as long as you believe that YOU can crucify him you
are only having nightmares. You who are beginning to wake are still
aware of dreams and have not yet forgotten them.
</div>

That&rsquo;s the reality of it. Understand that, because if you
don&rsquo;t understand it, you will think that this process, quote
&ldquo;process&rdquo; unquote, of Awakening is too difficult, or
isn&rsquo;t what it&rsquo;s cracked up to be, or what you&rsquo;re
trying to do in waking up isn&rsquo;t something that really leads you to
waking up because there&rsquo;s so much confusion accompanying it.
It&rsquo;s simply because:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You who are beginning to wake are still aware of dreams &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; habits don&rsquo;t die easily. Things which you are utterly
familiar with are not abandoned quickly.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You who are beginning to wake are still aware of dreams and have not yet
forgotten them.
</div>

That statement is not a criticism, but a wonderfully supportive, loving
sharing of the way it is, so that you will not become discouraged.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The forgetting of dreams and the awareness of Christ comes with the
awakening of others to SHARE your redemption.
</div>

So, when you persist in the willingness to look at all the stray dogs,
all the stray cats, all those in need of help, and recognize there
what&rsquo;s really true about them, else they couldn&rsquo;t be having
a miserable misperception of it, you are being inclusive. You are
embracing, unlike the dogcatcher, and in that embrace you&rsquo;re not
trying to control and there is trust. You trust that they are capable of
receiving the love you are extending. And you are patient, not
controlling.

And as with a stray animal, it might take two or three years for that
animal to finally show signs of having completely given up all fear of
you. But you&rsquo;re willing to persist in being the presence of that
which is not frightening, and is not projecting on that animal
misperceptions of it, and then behaving on the basis of those
misperceptions. And so the persistence of love heals. But the forgetting
of dreams sometimes happens slowly.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You will awaken to your OWN call&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and your Brothers and Sisters who call for your help to relieve
them of their pain without their having to abandon what&rsquo;s causing
their pain, will awaken to their own call&mdash;to their own call. And
only when their own call occurs, will they be able to hear your call to
them for what it is, and only then will involvement that you would call
constructive and healing, can begin. Only then can it begin, but not
until they&rsquo;ve heard their own call&mdash;the call of theirs from
within them.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You will awaken to your OWN call, for the Call to awake is WITHIN you.
If I live in you, you ARE awake. Yet you must see the works I do through
you, or you will not perceive that I have done them UNTO you. Do not set
limits on what you believe I can do through you, or you will not accept
what I can do FOR you. For it is done ALREADY, and unless you give all
that you have received, you will not know that your Redeemer liveth and
that YOU have awakened WITH Him. Redemption is recognized ONLY by
sharing it.
</div>

Now again&mdash;and many of you might not like the things I&rsquo;m
saying tonight&mdash;it says:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Redemption is recognized ONLY by sharing it.
</div>

And the question is, &ldquo;But what if I share it with somebody who
refuses to accept it?&rdquo; You stop trying to share it where
it&rsquo;s unwelcome. You stop trying to share it where it&rsquo;s being
refused. You stop sharing it and persisting in sharing it, and making an
ethic out of sharing it, and turning the sharing of it with that person
into a crusade&mdash;you stop that! And you withdraw. And you patiently
wait for the Call to awaken to come from within them&mdash;and then you
join with them, engage with them. Because until their devotion to their
god is, in some form, abandoned within them, the power of the Christ
that they are is absolute and you will not be let in. And so, you honor
that fact.

And as I said to my disciples, when you go into a village and
you&rsquo;re not accepted, shake off the dust from off thy feet and
leave town. Leave the town; abandon the projects that you set for
yourselves to change others for their own good when they haven&rsquo;t
come to your door asking to know what they can change in their lives in
order to stop creating the suffering they&rsquo;re experiencing. I hope
this is perfectly clear. And if its clarity registers with you, you will
be greatly and profoundly relieved from your own obsession of trying to
be a force for good, when you think you ought to be able to be, because
after all so-and-so is calling for help.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God&rsquo;s Son &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; You. Everyone &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; IS saved.
</div>

It&rsquo;s already done. And as I said, it&rsquo;s time to discover that
you&rsquo;re in the arena of embodying the deathlessness of Life,
because the deathlessness of Life has already been demonstrated, and the
belief that death is the conclusion of life has forever been broken. It
does not have the power that it did before the Resurrection, and it can
never again have it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God&rsquo;s Son IS saved. Bring only THIS awareness to the
Sonship&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; to each other &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and you will have a part in the redemption as valuable as mine.
For your part must be LIKE mine if you learn it of me. If you believe
that YOURS is limited&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you know, you&rsquo;re just not quite my equal.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you believe that YOURS is limited&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and you&rsquo;re somehow more special than me in your unique
incapacity. [laughing]

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you believe that YOURS is limited, YOU are limiting MINE. There is no
order of difficulty in miracles because all of God&rsquo;s Sons are of
equal value, and their equality is their Oneness. The whole power of God
is in every part of Him, and nothing contradictory to His Will is either
great or small. What does not exist has NO size and NO measure. To God
ALL things are possible. And to Christ it is given to be LIKE the
Father.

To God ALL things are possible. And to you it is given to be
LIKE the Father.
</div>

To you all things are possible.

Well, everyone can rejoice because you&rsquo;ve all been waiting for
what we&rsquo;re going to read about next week, &ldquo;The Problem and
the Answer.&rdquo; [audience laughter] But don&rsquo;t be too anxious
and read ahead. Stay with what we&rsquo;ve talked about this week. Let
it &hellip; let it sink in. It is Sanity. And it&rsquo;s your release
from unnecessary obligation to do the impossible. Enjoy the release and
enjoy the relief.

And I look forward to being with you all next week.

[^1]: T10.6 Experience and Perception

