---
title: Nov 13, 2005
ref: "T11.1 The Judgement of the Holy Spirit"
alink: "/acim/text/11/chap1101/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who is joining us on the Internet.

Well, big subject:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*God&rsquo;s Plan for Salvation*
</div>

Well, first of all, it might be a good idea to consider what the word
&ldquo;salvation&rdquo; means. You throw it around a lot.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*God&rsquo;s Plan for Salvation*
</div>

Well, salvation is going to mean something to you, right? It&rsquo;s not
salvation hanging out in the ethers. It&rsquo;s something that will be
an experience. And at the bottom line, salvation means you never having
to strive to become anything anymore. It means you not being behind the
eight ball anymore. It means you never having to try to be right. It
means you never having to prove anything.

Salvation is the experience of you being in your right Mind and knowing
it. It means you being in your right Mind, never again subject to doubt
or the invitation to discouragement. It means you at peace and being
able to be from your peace in all respects.

Salvation is the absence of fear&mdash;the total, complete absence of
fear. It&rsquo;s you being able to be whole, to be wholly involved in
being, where there&rsquo;s no reservation of any part of yourself that
you&rsquo;re keeping safe from threat, where the saying is really true,
&ldquo;What you see is what you get,&rdquo; because what everyone will
see will be you wholly present, without reservation, without withholding
yourself in any way. Salvation is the unobscured experience of
safety&mdash;which is another way of saying it is the direct experience
of omnipotence, not power over anything, but the presence of wholeness
that finds no threat, no suggestion of threat, nothing unlike itself. It
is the experience of utter peace and utter safety.

So what is God&rsquo;s Plan for this experience for you? Is it a plan He
had to come up with? Or is the plan for your salvation simply the Way
things are, the Way things unalterably are that you are simply going to
let yourselves back into the experience of?

Remember, you&rsquo;re not advancing toward your salvation; you&rsquo;re
not advancing toward your perfection; you&rsquo;re not improving
yourselves in order to earn salvation. But you have these imaginative
ideas that you have come up with and that others have provided to you
that you are not already there; you&rsquo;re not already at the Point of
Perfection. And so you operate not on the basis of the Way things are,
but on the basis of the way you think things are. Period. Your salvation
lies in abandoning the way you think things are, so that you might yield
into the Way things are&mdash;in other words, the Way God has set it up,
the Way God is being it/you at every moment&mdash;so that you let go of
the something extra that you&rsquo;ve added to the equation.

Salvation is yours. Salvation is already yours. And what all of this is
that we&rsquo;ve been talking about amounts to your yielding to It, your
yielding into It, your relaxing into It. God&rsquo;s Plan for salvation
is utter simplicity.

Let&rsquo;s go into the book.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have been told not to make error real, and the way to do this is
very simple. If you WANT to believe in error, you would HAVE to make it
real, because it is not true.
</div>

In other words, because it is not real.

So:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you WANT to believe in error, you would HAVE to make it real, because
it is not true. But truth is real in its own right, and to believe in
truth, YOU DO NOT HAVE TO DO ANYTHING.
</div>

If you want to believe in error, you would have to do something. You
would have to engage in acts that attempt to make it real so that you
would have something to believe in. And the reason is that it
doesn&rsquo;t exist in its own right.

Now:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Understand that you do not respond to stimuli, but to stimuli AS YOU
INTERPRET THEM. Your interpretation thus becomes the justification for
the response.
</div>

Whatever that response might be &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you do not respond to stimuli, but to stimuli AS YOU INTERPRET
THEM.
</div>

Well, that&rsquo;s what all of the mutually-agreed-upon definitions
are&mdash;the interpretations of Reality that you&rsquo;ve come up with.
And the mutually-agreed-upon definitions that you operate according to,
become the justifications for your responses. And so as a result, you
are very seldom original with a Brother or a Sister, with each other.
You&rsquo;re always doing this two-step, bouncing off of each other so
as to be able to do things but not violate the mutually-agreed-upon
definitions, the interpretations that have been placed between you and
Reality itself.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
That is why analyzing the motives of others is hazardous to YOU.
</div>

Naturally, [laughing] it&rsquo;s not the most comfortable thing for the
ones you&rsquo;re analyzing.

But:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; analyzing the motives of others is hazardous to YOU. If you
decide that someone is really trying to attack you or desert you or
enslave you, you will respond AS IF he had actually done so, because you
have made his error REAL to you. To interpret error is to give it power,
and having done this, you WILL overlook truth.
</div>

This is really quite obvious, and really quite simple. However you
perceive your Brother, however you interpret his actions and him, will
govern how you&rsquo;re going to behave toward him. And if your
interpretation of your Brother, or of his actions, takes precedence over
an actual connection with him, then you are operating in a fantasy. You
are in imagination land, and you&rsquo;re out of touch. You&rsquo;re not
connected. You&rsquo;re unable to be real, appropriate, pertinent. And
you&rsquo;re going to trip and fall flat on your face, and you&rsquo;re
going to wonder why.

You don&rsquo;t usually run into problems until you have to relate to
your Brothers and Sisters, right? If you&rsquo;re on a mountaintop all
by yourself, or on a deserted beach all by yourself, you can be there
without any problems. But let there be one other person who comes along,
and there is the potential for them to behave in a way that is offensive
to you, or distracting to you, or bothersome to you, and the problem
begins. Why? Because you must be involved, and you don&rsquo;t know how
to be involved with your Brothers and Sisters.

Now, you may argue with me and say, &ldquo;I sure do. And I get along
with them well and I have good working relationships. I am, along with
others, able to be quite productive and am able to help others be
productive.&rdquo; But what you don&rsquo;t understand is that if you
are not gathering your perception of your Brother from a prior
connectedness with Truth, you are operating in the realm of imagination
land. And so although all of you are being able to function together
with very little friction, you are not in touch with the Truth, and you
haven&rsquo;t learned how to be with your Brother rightly. You
haven&rsquo;t learned how to be with your Brother from your right
Mind&mdash;a real connection with what is really there where your
Brother is.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The analysis of ego-motivation &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; which is what all of you do when you look at your Brothers and
Sisters. You evaluate where they&rsquo;re coming [from]. &ldquo;I wonder
where she&rsquo;s coming from? Mm. She&rsquo;s behaving in such-and-such
a way. She must have blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.&rdquo; And you come
up with an imaginary assessment. And then you approach her on the basis
of that assessment.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The analysis of ego-motivation is very complicated, very
obscuring&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; obscuring of what? Of the Truth. Your imagination obscures the
Truth when you give preference to what you have imagined.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The analysis of ego-motivation is very complicated, very obscuring, and
NEVER without the risk of your own ego-involvement. The whole process
represents a clear-cut attempt to demonstrate your OWN ability to
understand what you perceive.
</div>

You see? Instead of a joint understanding of what you perceive, which
you have when you abandon your independence, your autonomy, and you say,
&ldquo;Father, or Holy Spirit, what&rsquo;s really going on here? What
do I need to know here? What is really going on?&rdquo; so that you
might respond on the basis of a joined clarity.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The whole process represents a clear-cut attempt to demonstrate your OWN
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and I&rsquo;m going to say, independent &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; ability to understand what you perceive. This is shown by the
fact that you react to your interpretations AS IF they were correct, and
control your reactions behaviorally, but not emotionally.
</div>

What does that mean? [small laugh] It means that even though you come up
with your own conclusions and they&rsquo;re false and they are
disturbing to you, you, for the most part, control your behavior and you
don&rsquo;t behave consistent with the perception you have. But when it
comes to your emotions, oh boy! Do they go wild! And in your head, you
concoct stories, you concoct scenarios about your Brother&rsquo;s
behavior and what you can expect and what they&rsquo;re likely to do.
And the longer you do this, the angrier you get. And you know what? You
haven&rsquo;t even had your first word with this person for the day.

So you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; control your reactions behaviorally, but not emotionally. This
is quite evidently a mental split, in which you have attacked the
integrity of your mind, and pitted one level within it against another.
</div>

You see? You&rsquo;re going to control yourself properly here, but
you&rsquo;re not going to control yourself at all here, and so
you&rsquo;re attempting to be inconsistent within yourself. And
that&rsquo;s called the human condition.

You also do this with the world. You do this with spiders and snakes and
centipedes, and butterflies and hummingbirds. A hummingbird comes along
and there&rsquo;s no fear in you. And you stand very still in hopes that
it will stay in your vicinity and maybe get really close so you can get
a good look at it. But you see a spider or a wasp or a snake, and
whether it&rsquo;s going to do anything to you or not, whether it even
cares whether you&rsquo;re there or not, you go through great fear, and
a sweat will break out. Fear will reign. Why? Because of the
interpretation you have about the spider, or the snake, or the wasp. So
you&rsquo;re reacting to your own interpretation. You&rsquo;re off in
la-la-land again&mdash;imagination land.

But you know what? You&rsquo;re putting your body through all of the
responses that would be called for, we&rsquo;ll say, if indeed there was
a threat. And you know what? When you live your life this way, you wear
yourself out unconsciously, simply because you&rsquo;re constantly on
guard, one way or another, all day long.

Now the next section is called:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*The Judgment of the Holy Spirit*

There is but one interpretation of all motivation that makes any sense.
</div>

See, we&rsquo;re talking about simplicity.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And because it is the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s judgment, it requires no
effort at all on your part.
</div>

Here it is. Here&rsquo;s the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s judgment.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Every loving thought is true. Everything else is an appeal for healing
and help. That is what it is, regardless of the form it takes.
</div>

There are only two things going on in your behavior or in your
Brother&rsquo;s behavior.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Every loving thought is true.
</div>

Every loving thought you have is Real and eternal.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Everything else &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you or your Brother engages in is an appeal for help.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is an appeal for healing and help.
</div>

That&rsquo;s why it&rsquo;s said that everything is either Love or a
call for Love.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Can anyone be justified in responding with anger to a plea for help? No
response can be appropriate except the willingness to give it to him,
for this and ONLY this is what he is asking for.
</div>

So if your Brother is behaving, or Sister, in a way that isn&rsquo;t
obviously love, then they&rsquo;re engaging in what you can
imaginatively call bad behavior&mdash;a call for correction. And you, at
that point, are faced with a choice. Are you going to react to your
perception of them and of their behavior? &ldquo;Oh, they&rsquo;re in a
shitty mood. I had better steer clear of them if I don&rsquo;t want to
get caught up in a big mess.&rdquo; Or are you going to see it for what
it truly is&mdash;a call for Love, a call for help&mdash;and not react
angrily?

It makes all the difference in the world how you interpret everything
you see. And you&rsquo;re going to interpret it in one of those two
ways. You&rsquo;re going to recognize it to be the Presence of Love,
something to be grateful for, or a call for Love, which is something to
be grateful for.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Offer him anything else, and you are assuming the right to attack his
reality by interpreting it as YOU see fit.
</div>

You see? You make your own definition up, and then you behave according
to that definition as you see fit. And there&rsquo;s been no connection
with that Brother. You&rsquo;ve inserted between your Brother and
yourself a picture of him, and then you&rsquo;re reacting to that
picture of him. And then you&rsquo;re coming to conclusions as to what
is required in order for your picture of him to be pacified, settled
down, dealt with. You see? And the problem is that you carry out this
response to your very own picture, not where something can be done about
it which is in your own mind, but you attempt to deal with the Brother
who has made a call for Love, as though he hasn&rsquo;t made a call for
Love. And your behavior is recognized to be attack, an absence of
communication, an absence of connection, and yet a coercive response
from you that doesn&rsquo;t make sense to the one calling for help.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Perhaps the danger of this to your own mind is not yet fully apparent to
you&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what does that mean, &ldquo;the danger of this to your own
mind&rdquo;? The danger of it is that your mind is itself in a
conflicted state. And you don&rsquo;t even know it because it&rsquo;s
second nature to you to deal with your interpretations of things,
instead of with the things themselves. And that&rsquo;s a form of
insanity. It&rsquo;s certainly a concrete evidence of ignorance.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Perhaps the danger of this to your own mind is not yet fully apparent to
you, but this by no means signifies that it is not perfectly clear.
</div>

The danger.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you maintain that an appeal for help is something else &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning an expression of hate. If you determine that the call
for help is aggressive lack of respect directed toward you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you will REACT to something else&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and I&rsquo;m going to put it this way.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you maintain that an appeal for help is something else you will REACT
to &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; something else, and your response will be inappropriate to
reality as IT is, but NOT to your perception of it.
</div>

[small laugh] Your response will be perfectly appropriate in your mind
when it&rsquo;s a response to your perception of what&rsquo;s going on.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is poor reality testing by definition. There is nothing to prevent
you from recognizing ALL calls for help as exactly what they are except
your own perceived NEED to attack.
</div>

[small laugh] You hear that?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; except your own perceived NEED to attack.
</div>

&ldquo;What are you talking about? I&rsquo;m not going around feeling a
need to attack. I never think about attacking. I never engage in
anything that comes anywhere near attack unless I&rsquo;m really,
really, really upset. What are you talking about?&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is nothing to prevent you from recognizing ALL calls for help as
exactly what they are except your own perceived NEED to attack.
</div>

Well, you can understand it a little bit better if we change the words
to, &ldquo;your own perceived need to defend yourselves.&rdquo;

And every day, in one way or another, you get up ready to defend
yourself. Ready to defend yourself against traffic
jams&mdash;inconsiderate drivers that are behaving poorly and causing
slow-ups that will make you be late to work, and perhaps threaten your
job security because you&rsquo;ve been late three times already. You get
up careful to see that you run into the least obstacles to having a
successful day, which means that you expect obstacles, that you believe
that you live in a hostile world&mdash;one that you have to be on guard
for so that it won&rsquo;t trip you up and leave you at a loss at the
end of the day.

This attitude of being ready to defend yourself by all the means you
use&mdash;having a good plan, thinking things through ahead of time so
that you&rsquo;re prepared, and so on&mdash;these defenses, even though
you describe them in glowing terms of respect, constitute an approach to
your day and your world as though it is against you, and you are
prepared for it not to take you down. And so, that is an attitude of
attack. It is not a state of mind that can be described as Love. Your
very approach to your days is a call for Love. Your very own approaches
are calls for Love.

Again, because it&rsquo;s important.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is nothing to prevent you from recognizing ALL calls for help as
exactly what they are &hellip;
</div>

Calls for help.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; except your own perceived NEED to attack. It is only THIS that
makes you willing to engage in endless &ldquo;battles&rdquo; with
reality, in which you DENY the reality of the need for healing by making
IT unreal.
</div>

How do you make it unreal? You make the need for healing and you make
the call for help unreal by naming it something else. &ldquo;What can
you expect? She&rsquo;s a bitch. What else can you expect? He&rsquo;s a
chronically dishonest person.&rdquo; You&rsquo;ve made their behavior,
which is a call for help, unreal/invalid by naming it something else,
and then acting on the basis of what you have named it.

And do you see that every time you do this, you miss connection, even
though on a camera it might appear that there&rsquo;s involvement? And
if you are missing the connection with your Brother, but are still
having a mutual activity with him, what is going on? How would you
describe what&rsquo;s happening? Nonsense. Meaninglessness. And you know
what? That&rsquo;s what most of you see on the evening news.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You would not do this &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; In other words, change the need for healing into something
unreal.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You would not do this except for your UNWILLINGNESS to perceive
reality&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your unwillingness to perceive Reality &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; which you withhold from YOURSELF.
</div>

[small laugh] You see? The truth sort of hits under the belt. It
uncovers things that you&rsquo;re doing that you didn&rsquo;t know you
were doing and that you would say you weren&rsquo;t doing. &ldquo;What
do you mean, I have an unwillingness to perceive Reality?&rdquo; Well,
if you give preference to your definitions of everything in place of
Reality&mdash;the thing you&rsquo;re giving definitions
to&mdash;you&rsquo;re withholding the experience of Reality from
yourself.

And of course, there&rsquo;s a reason you&rsquo;re doing it. And the
reason is&mdash;which goes back to our initial problem&mdash;the reason
is that it&rsquo;s your task to practice the skill, which you believe
your Father gave you, to be like your Father alongside Him. And so you
engage in making up these definitions, and then behaving toward
everything on the basis of these definitions because that is the way you
are going to ultimately&mdash;you think&mdash;prove that you&rsquo;re
just like God, prove that you are an authority, and prove that
you&rsquo;re right, not wrong. And so it&rsquo;s an emotionally-charged
situation.

You all withhold Reality from yourself by trying to create an alternate
reality right where Reality is and right with the stuff of Reality. And
that&rsquo;s why I keep talking about the need to look at everything
with innocent eyes. You haven&rsquo;t realized you&rsquo;ve been doing
this, but you have been doing it and you must break the cycle. And you
break the cycle by being willing to assume that maybe you&rsquo;re not
seeing everything as it is, and that maybe you&rsquo;re not seeing
everything as it is, is what is causing discomfort, distress, suffering,
and all the negatives that seem to be part of life.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is surely good advice to tell you not to judge what you do not
understand.
</div>

&ldquo;Oh, but I do understand. I know Joe so well. I grew up with him.
I know all his idiosyncrasies. I understand him perfectly. You know, he
came from a deprived home life, and he&rsquo;s done really well in the
face of it. Lifted himself up by his own bootstraps.&rdquo; And blah,
blah, blah. Got the whole picture down.

But wait a minute. Is he a product of his environment? Is his behavior
predictable and understandable because of everything you know about all
the physical aspects of his growing up? Or might there be more to him
that he&rsquo;s not aware of? Might there not be something divine about
him? Might there not be another way to look at him besides through your
perception, your definitions? Yes. You&rsquo;ve go to dare to break the
habit of perception. Or put another way, you&rsquo;ve got to do whatever
it takes to break your habits of misperception by being willing to look
with new eyes, look with a willingness to see what is there that you
have been overlooking.

You must be willing to risk the chance that there might be some benefit
in looking at things that you&rsquo;re sure of and saying to yourself,
&ldquo;I may not understand all there is to understand about this. There
may be a lot more for me to understand.&rdquo; Your scientists are doing
that in spite of the power with which they declare what they already
know. They are still digging or reaching beyond what they acknowledge is
their present limited perception.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is surely good advice to tell you not to judge what you do not
understand. No-one with a personal investment is a reliable witness, for
truth to him has become what he WANTS it to be.
</div>

&ldquo;Well, you know, I don&rsquo;t want Joe to be in the situation
he&rsquo;s in. I don&rsquo;t want to be unhappy because of what I see is
going on with Joe.&rdquo; But the question is, &ldquo;Do you want to let
go of the perceptions you have developed, the concepts, the definitions
you have developed?&rdquo; Are you willing to let your mind be
changed&mdash;that&rsquo;s the real question&mdash;so that Truth can be
more than you want it to be from whatever your limited level of
perception is?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you are unwilling to perceive an appeal for help as what it IS, it is
because you are unwilling to GIVE help AND TO RECEIVE IT.
</div>

Because the two are one and the same thing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The analysis of the ego&rsquo;s &ldquo;real&rdquo; motivation is the
modern equivalent of the inquisition, for in both a brother&rsquo;s
errors are &ldquo;uncovered&rdquo; and he is then attacked FOR HIS OWN
GOOD. What can this be BUT projection? For HIS errors lay in the minds
of his interpreters, for which they punished HIM.
</div>

You see? They didn&rsquo;t handle the problem where it lay, which was in
their own mind in the criteria they were using to define the one they
determined to be at fault&mdash;the one making a call for help who is
being interpreted to be a malicious, law-breaking citizen calling for
justice&mdash;punishment, in other words&mdash;instead of healing. And
in this procedure, those analyzing him and then judging him according to
their analysis and punishing him for what they analyzed him to be, saved
themselves from having to become involved, I&rsquo;m going to say,
involved at a heart level, involved at a level where real connection
occurred. It saved them the effort and the trouble. And so they could
stand and look down on the poor soul, and come to their judgment, and
send them on their way for their punishment, and not be disturbed.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Whenever you fail to recognize a call for help &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; as a call for help &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you are REFUSING help. Would you maintain that you do not NEED
it? Yet this IS what you are maintaining when you refuse to recognize a
brother&rsquo;s appeal, for only by ANSWERING his appeal can YOU be
helped. Deny him your help and you will not perceive God&rsquo;s answer
to YOU.
</div>

Healing is a together thing. Healing is not something one does to
another.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit does not need your help in interpreting motivation, but
you DO need HIS. Only APPRECIATION is an appropriate response to your
brother. Gratitude is due him for both his loving thoughts &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; which are real &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and his appeals for help, for both are capable of bringing love
into YOUR awareness if you perceive them truly. And ALL your sense of
strain comes from your attempts NOT to do just this.
</div>

 (PAUL: Just a moment.)

Paul is getting hung up because what&rsquo;s being said and what
I&rsquo;m sharing creates a dilemma when someone who is expressing a
call for help does not want to receive the help. When this happens and a
response of love is not received, what happens? The temptation is
provided by the ignorant behavior of the Brother not wanting to receive
the love offered, the healing or the help offered, to &hellip; it
provides the opportunity for the one offering the help to come to a
judgment. &ldquo;Wow, he (or she) really is a difficult person.&rdquo;
You see? The temptation is to succumb to creating a definition, even
though originally a refusal to make a definition and operate according
to it had been successfully accomplished. The refusal to accept the love
provides the opportunity and truly the demand not to abandon staying
with innocent Vision&mdash;not to formulate a definition and then make
commitment to it and then behave toward that person as though the
definition you&rsquo;ve made up is true.

This is part of the involvement. This is part of giving the answer of
Love. It is, you might say, part of what you would call the stickiness
of involvement. Why? Because it appears then that a war is going on, a
tug-of-war where you are being invited to abandon your innocent Vision
in favor of making up a definition and behaving according to it, and
thus moving into la-la-land, imagination land, where you&rsquo;re lost.
What it does is, this invitation to a tug-of-war, what it does is it
gives you the opportunity to make commitment to seeing with innocence
just because. In other words, not because there&rsquo;s a payoff for
you, not because there&rsquo;s a quick payoff, but because it is what
represents your Sane Mind. You see?

Making commitment to being Sane seems like hard work because
you&rsquo;ve been so used to doing something else. [laughing] And so you
look for alternatives to the hard work, not realizing that to see with
innocence is natural to you and is not the hard work it appears to be.
There is a point at which you have to stand behind a commitment to see
what&rsquo;s Real, and not be distracted from it by another&rsquo;s
behavior or your very own inclination to move into the realm of
imagination and live there where you cannot be conscious of Reality.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
How simple, then, is God&rsquo;s plan for salvation. There is but ONE
response to reality, for reality evokes no conflict at all. There is but
ONE Teacher of reality, Who understands what it IS.
</div>

The Holy Spirit.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He does not change His Mind about reality because REALITY does not
change. Although YOUR interpretations of reality are meaningless in your
divided state, His remain consistently true. He GIVES them to you
because they are FOR you. Do not attempt to &ldquo;help&rdquo; a brother
in YOUR way, for you cannot help yourselves. But hear his call for the
help of God&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your Brother&rsquo;s. But hear your Brother&rsquo;s call for
the Help of God &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and you will recognize your OWN need for the Father.
</div>

Unless, of course, you decide you are going to get back into your old
habit of making definitions and behaving on the basis of them. But if
you&rsquo;re not going to make up a new definition that justifies your
uninvolvement and makes you better than him, then you&rsquo;re going to
find yourself feeling at a loss because you don&rsquo;t know what the
answer is. And so you&rsquo;re going to recognize you need God as much
as the one calling for help recognizes that he or she needs something,
even though it&rsquo;s probably not God as far as they&rsquo;re
concerned, but just something that will reconfirm for them the rightness
of what they&rsquo;re doing, and that they shouldn&rsquo;t be suffering
for doing it the way they&rsquo;re doing it. So this is very important.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your interpretations of your brother&rsquo;s need is your interpretation
of YOURS. By GIVING help you are ASKING for it&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and I would say if you haven&rsquo;t asked for it, you
won&rsquo;t have anything to give. So the two are inseparable.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
By GIVING help you are ASKING for it, and if you perceive but one need
in yourself you WILL be healed. For you will recognize God&rsquo;s
answer as you want it to be&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning truly want it to be as God&rsquo;s Answer.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and if you want it in truth it will be truly yours.
</div>

You see? So the question is, &ldquo;Do you want to be able to make up a
definition of a Brother who is calling for help by behaving badly, do
you want to be able to make up a definition about it that provides you
with a handy way to resolve it through judgment and no involvement, and
continue to be ignorant of your own Place of Excellence&mdash;the Place
of Excellence in you&mdash;and remain unconscious of your access to it,
and continue on with your Brother where both of you are missing each
other, where both of you are not connecting with each other, even though
it appears that there is involvement? Do you want that? Or do you want
what really heals?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Every appeal you answer in the Name of Christ brings the remembrance of
your Father closer to YOUR awareness.

Every appeal you answer in the Name of Christ &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in the Name of your True Nature. In the Name of the Place of
Excellence in you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; brings the remembrance of your Father closer to YOUR awareness.
</div>

Why? Because you&rsquo;re breaking the isolation, the bill of
divorcement. And when you break it, the experience of family connection
with your Father, your Source, immediately, it would seem, resurges in
you and fills you up because you&rsquo;re no longer blocking it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For the sake of YOUR need, then, hear every call for help as what it
is&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; why?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; so God can answer YOU.
</div>

Complicated? No. Simple to understand? Yes. Happifying? No. Relieving?
No. Why? It&rsquo;s a question you all need to ask yourselves.

Well, I&rsquo;m going to tell you, it&rsquo;s because you don&rsquo;t
think you can rise to the occasion. You don&rsquo;t think you can really
be this way. You don&rsquo;t think you have what it takes. It will be
too much work. Why? Because it&rsquo;s not natural to you, you
don&rsquo;t think. And so, someone else&rsquo;s definition of you has
settled in you, and you&rsquo;ve taken it to heart and you believe it.
And so you never even begin to wriggle inside of the chrysalis
you&rsquo;re in, or stretch inside of the egg and peck away at it, when
that&rsquo;s what&rsquo;s absolutely essential. Why? Because although
you can manage to put up with the distresses of your daily life, the
human condition, they&rsquo;re not bad enough to motivate you to peck at
the shell or strain at the confinement of the chrysalis so that the
chrysalis might snap, so that your definitions might break and you can
see that they had not the strength to confine the Christ that you are,
the divine one that you are.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
By applying the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s interpretation of the reactions of
others more and more consistently, you will gain an increasing awareness
that HIS criteria are equally applicable to YOU. For to RECOGNIZE fear
is not enough to escape from it, although the recognition is necessary
to demonstrate the need for escape. The Holy Spirit must still TRANSLATE
it into truth. If you were LEFT with the fear, having recognized it, you
would have taken a step AWAY from reality&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; away from Reality &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; not TOWARDS it. Yet we have repeatedly emphasized the need to
recognize fear and face it WITHOUT disguise as a crucial step in the
undoing of the ego.

&hellip; in the undoing of the ego.
</div>

In the undoing of the habit pattern that you have adopted as your
identity and the reason for your behavior and the justifications for
your behavior, including your habit of giving definitions and
evaluations to everyone else about them and using them as your criteria
for behaving the way you do toward them.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Consider how well the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s interpretation of the motives
of others will serve you then.
</div>

Well, they will serve you very well.

This is not a spot, in terms of the unfoldment of the things needing to
be understood, for me to tell you sweet things and to give you words of
encouragement that would allow you to relax. Because the moment you feel
relaxed, you&rsquo;ll stop paying attention with earnestness at what you
need to pay attention to. Which is, first of all, your inclination to
approach your day as though it&rsquo;s a hostile world with things you
need to be guarded against so that you are in a dull mode of
self-defense, which is really attack. And second, where you don&rsquo;t
just give preference to, but you make commitment to your defining
everything without ever connecting with what it really is. And thirdly,
and perhaps most importantly, your habit of defining your
Brother&rsquo;s, I&rsquo;m just going to say, behavior, because none of
you consistently express love so that it&rsquo;s the predominant thing
that everyone recognizes about you as they observe you as you go through
your day.

Your behavior is a call for Love. That means anyone you look at, their
behavior, for the most part, is a call for Love, a request for help,
because so much of their day is approached from a feeling of ignorance
that must somehow become equal to the demands of the day so as not to
cause that one to feel depressed at the end of the day because
everything went so badly. And so their behavior is not inspired with
Love. Your behavior, for the most part, isn&rsquo;t inspired with Love.
But that&rsquo;s your Birthright, for it to be inspired with Love.

So, you&rsquo;ve got to be alert to your very definite inclination to
interpret what a Brother is and what he is being as you are in relation
to him, and your reluctance to step past the definition you create so as
to perhaps really connect with that one and have the opportunity to find
out whether their behavior truly is a call for Love, a call for help; or
whether it was an expression of Love perhaps that pushed you beyond the
limits you wanted to be pushed, and therefore you said, &ldquo;That one
is behaving badly,&rdquo; and then you proceeded to treat that
individual on the basis of the definition you gave.

We&rsquo;re talking about being more conscious. You could say
we&rsquo;re talking about using a little more discipline of your mind.
Oh, oh. Work, work, work, work. Discipline, discipline. You know what?
[small laugh] What would you call it if you sat down one day and you
neglected to worry? You just neglected to worry? Well, you would find
you were in your peace the whole day. Were you in your peace because you
used self-discipline? Yes, but not in terms of work. You expressed
discipline by consistently neglecting to do what doesn&rsquo;t work.

It&rsquo;s simple. You aren&rsquo;t going to abandon what doesn&rsquo;t
work without a conscious choice to do it. There&rsquo;s going to have to
be focus. The rewards are great. The rewards are your unchangeable
Birthright, divine Birthright, beginning to register with you, because
you&rsquo;re neglecting to obscure it with your personal effort to be
something on your own.

So, this week I invite you to conscientiously&mdash;which means
consistently and persistently&mdash;observe how quickly, how
spontaneously you bring definitions into play about your fellowman. And
then watch how long it takes you to abandon them. Notice whether or not
you spend an hour building on that definition, as I said, fabricating a
scenario of events in your mind. Notice how much valuable conscious
experience&mdash;I&rsquo;m not going to say how much time&mdash;how much
valuable conscious experience you&rsquo;ve wasted in imagination land,
so that you might see just how effectively you&rsquo;re keeping yourself
unconscious of Reality. Because once you see that, it will be much
easier for you to make a choice for using your mind well.

And it will be that much easier to recognize that you don&rsquo;t want
to choose for what doesn&rsquo;t work, so that you might more easily
choose for God&rsquo;s Plan for salvation, which is choosing for [small
laugh] what works. Choosing for what works because that&rsquo;s the way
it&rsquo;s been set up; it&rsquo;s the setup that&rsquo;s already in
place unchangeably.

So, I love you. And I look forward to being with you next week.

[^1]: T11.1 The Judgement of the Holy Spirit

