---
title: Nov 20, 2005
ref: "T11.1 The Judgement of the Holy Spirit"
alink: "/acim/text/11/chap1101/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who is joining us on the Internet.

Before we move on, it&rsquo;s important and necessary to pause and get
some things clear. For the last couple of weeks, we&rsquo;ve been
talking about God&rsquo;s Plan, we&rsquo;ve been talking about answering
the call for help, answering the call for love. And in order not to be
confused, I want it to be clearly understood that what we&rsquo;ve been
discussing, especially in the current chapter, is&mdash;whether
you&rsquo;ve thought about it or not&mdash;the question of whether
you&rsquo;re going to be honest. Whether you&rsquo;re going to be
honest. In other words, the subject has been each of you, not the one
you would help.

Now, all of you in one way or another as you go through your day are
trying to fulfill a concept you have of yourself. You have a goal for
yourself. You have a certain thing you want to be in the world. And for
the most part, you do everything you can to be consistent with the
manifestation of that picture or concept you have of yourselves. And to
be very blunt with you, when you&rsquo;re doing that you&rsquo;re not
being honest, because a picture of who you are, a concept of who you
are, what you want everyone else to see you as, isn&rsquo;t you. You
know, we can get all caught up in flowery, wonderful spiritual words,
but if they&rsquo;re going to mean anything, they&rsquo;ve got to relate
to you and to where you are, and to what is really true about you, so
that you are able to abandon the pictures of yourselves that
you&rsquo;re trying to present, and can be yourself honestly.

And so what we&rsquo;ve been reading about, although it relates to your
Brother and your capacity to be an agent for change and to respond to a
call for help, the focus has been on whether before you respond
you&rsquo;ve moved into a place of honesty within yourselves where you
have abandoned concepts you have built up about the one who is calling
for help. Are you coming from a place of innocence within
you?&mdash;which is another way of saying a place of genuineness in you
where you are not violating your own Integrity, your own
already-existing absolute divine Integrity by inserting a picture of
yourself between that and your Brothers and Sisters, that you emphasize
and thereby cover up who you genuinely are.

Now the ego will use everything that the Course says for its own
purposes, and will use everything I say for its own purposes, if
you&rsquo;re not alert, if you&rsquo;re not honest, if you&rsquo;re not
more interested in the Truth than in anything else. And so when I say
that you want to be able to come from a place of genuineness and
honesty, I&rsquo;m not talking about honestly expressing exactly what
you feel. I&rsquo;m not talking about how you as an ego, as a concept,
as a product of your family&rsquo;s and your society&rsquo;s upbringing;
I&rsquo;m talking about something prior to that. I&rsquo;m talking about
something more fundamental than that. I&rsquo;m talking about the
Integrity you have that is inseparable from you, that is, I&rsquo;m
going to say, at the root of the Act of God that appears as you, as your
experience of being conscious.

You all know the Truth. You all know the Ultimate. But you think that
you have to cooperate with everyone, and that everyone has to cooperate
with you according to interpretations and definitions that all of you
have made up together; interpretations and definitions that allow you to
create an image of yourself. But you know what? The image isn&rsquo;t
what has created the image; you are what has created the image. But once
having created the image and giving preference to it, that which made up
the image fades into the background. And the image cooperates with all
of the other images, and abides by all of the structures and rules that
all of these images have created together so that they can seem to exist
in relative harmony.

The honesty that is being called for here in the Course, has to do with
your being willing to abandon the image and the goals you have for that
image, so that you might get to the bottom-line of you, where it&rsquo;s
ultimately easy for you to express yourself without violating yourself,
without abandoning your Integrity. From that place, everything you say
and everything you do will be constructive and will be healing.

What you need to be clear on so that you don&rsquo;t become confused, is
that what we have been discussing so far in this chapter, has nothing to
do with anyone else. It has to do with the necessity of your doing
something before you get involved in a healing fashion with someone
else, and that is get behind and underneath the images you&rsquo;re
trying to portray. It also means abandoning concepts other people have
of you; abandoning an intent you have to live up to another&rsquo;s
expectations that fulfill their concept of you. Because as long as
you&rsquo;re doing that, you are ingenuine, deceitful, dishonest because
it&rsquo;s all a manipulative game, and nothing more. And healing cannot
be the result, and your awakening can&rsquo;t be the result, and your
peace cannot be the result of that.

And an even more remote form of this is where you are not trying to live
up to a concept someone else has of you, where you&rsquo;re not trying
to fulfill a concept someone else has of you, but where you&rsquo;re not
trying to fulfill a concept someone else has of themselves. Now what do
I mean? I mean, for example, as a parent or a teacher that you might
have expectations of a child or a pupil. And that expectation of them is
to fulfill your concept of yourself as a teacher, as a parent. You are
relying upon your child or your pupil to provide proof of your value as
a parent or a teacher. And if you&rsquo;re the child or if you&rsquo;re
the student who is trying to fulfill your parent&rsquo;s or your
teacher&rsquo;s concept of themselves, you&rsquo;re even less honest,
and you&rsquo;re even more confused, and you&rsquo;re even more buried
in illusion. And what we&rsquo;ve been talking about for the last two
weeks has to do with stepping back, getting behind, getting underneath
all of that, so that you&rsquo;re coming from that place in you which
puts up with no bullshit, because it itself isn&rsquo;t interested in
bullshitting with everyone else, even though all of you know how to do
this real well and do it every day.

So, when it says (the Course) that it&rsquo;s essential for you to see a
call for help or a call for love as a call for love, even though the
call for love comes forth as negative or abusive or unkind behavior,
even though it apparently comes forth as attack, or comes forth as an
invitation for you to become frightened on behalf of the one with the
problem, when it says that you are to see it as a call for love instead
of what it appears to be, instead of what the one calling for love hopes
you will see it as, it means that it is essential for you, before you
respond, to be unwilling to abandon your commitment to seeing them from
where? From the bottom-line genuine honesty of your Being, with a
capital &ldquo;B&rdquo;. And I say that so that you might understand
clearly that I&rsquo;m talking about your coming from that place of
divine excellence in you that is not confused, because it insists upon
seeing nothing but the Truth&mdash;God&rsquo;s Truth, if you
will&mdash;the Real Truth, and not be sucked into a judgment about that
person, that would interpret the call for help as something else, such
as an act of aggression by an ungodly presence that doesn&rsquo;t
deserve your respect.

You see, we have been talking about the use you, as the one hearing the
call for love, are putting your mind to, so that you might remain
steadfastly anchored in your unwillingness to see anything other than
the Truth, even though you&rsquo;ve been invited to see something else
there and react to it. We have not, as yet, been talking about what
happens after that. We have not yet been talking about how to be an
agent for change, but how to use your mind so that what follows the
right use of your mind, can be that which heals, that which helps. So
again, we have been emphasizing the necessity of honesty on your part.

Now, because there is and has been so much emphasis in the last couple
of weeks in what we&rsquo;ve been reading on the call for love and the
need to respond with love, and because it is so easy for the ego to
twist the meaning of what is being said, we need to become clear on some
other points. The first thing is you must be willing to wonder what the
words mean that we&rsquo;re using, &ldquo;a call for love.&rdquo; What
does that mean? In practical terms, what is love?

There&rsquo;s a call for love&mdash;in other words, unlovely behavior
occurring, ignorant behavior occurring&mdash;and you say, &ldquo;Oh, I
can see she needs love. Oh, love is what&rsquo;s needed here with
him.&rdquo; And then perhaps you sort of conjure up rosy, soft, pinkish
feelings of softness and affection, and you sort of whirl it out around
them and let it embrace them, and you consider them in this sweet fog of
love. You know what? It&rsquo;s time for everybody to grow up
spiritually or metaphysically.

There was a day when everybody was thoroughly enjoying the statement,
&ldquo;Every day in every way I am getting better and better,&rdquo; and
people walked around saying this like a mantra and allowing themselves
to embrace the feeling of that. But you know what? If you&rsquo;re not
breaking the habits of bad behavior and you&rsquo;re not changing, you
can&rsquo;t get better and better just because you&rsquo;re saying,
&ldquo;Every day in every way I am getting better and better.&rdquo; You
can&rsquo;t get better if ignorance hasn&rsquo;t been replaced with
understanding. You can&rsquo;t be getting better if you&rsquo;re still
having the same old problems, but they&rsquo;re not bothering you like
they used to. Let&rsquo;s not be caught up in spiritual vagueness.
It&rsquo;s all relevant and it&rsquo;s all practical.

Somebody says, &ldquo;Well, you know, if so-and-so is behaving in this
bad way and they don&rsquo;t want to accept the help that&rsquo;s being
offered, they just need more love.&rdquo; Well, what in the hell does
that mean? If you ask that person what that means, you&rsquo;re either
going to get an honest answer that says, &ldquo;You know, I really
don&rsquo;t know what that means,&rdquo; or they&rsquo;re going to give
you some of this soft, pink, foggy, vague nonsense.

If you want to know what &ldquo;a call for love&rdquo; means, change the
word &ldquo;love&rdquo; to &ldquo;intelligence&rdquo;&mdash;it&rsquo;s a
call for intelligence. Change the word to
&ldquo;understanding&rdquo;&mdash;it&rsquo;s a call for understanding.
It&rsquo;s a call for the one receiving the call, to express
intelligence where there has been confusion, an apparent lack of
intelligence operating, so that the intelligence replaces the ignorance
with that which is meaningful&mdash;with directions that are practical,
that solve the problem, that bring about the necessary change from the
behavior that was creating a bad experience into intelligent behavior
that manifests as healing, as miracles, as problems disappearing.

But oh, the word &ldquo;love&rdquo; is such a catchword for nebulous
nonsense. &ldquo;Just wrap them up in love and hold them there in your
mind. See their perfection.&rdquo; Bullshit! If you want to see their
perfection, see it and then express it and make a demand for it to be
expressed by them. Be the push, as it were, that motivates them to
behave according to the perfection of themselves that hasn&rsquo;t gone
anywhere, but which they&rsquo;ve abandoned for whatever reason.

And if you express intelligence in response to the call for
intelligence/love and they say, &ldquo;I won&rsquo;t have anything to do
with it,&rdquo; then you express a little bit more intelligence/love,
even though it&rsquo;s not sweet nebulous pink fluff, and you say,
&ldquo;You know, if you&rsquo;re not willing to change the way
you&rsquo;re thinking, if you&rsquo;re not willing to change your
behavior, you are going to have exactly the experience you&rsquo;re
having now that you&rsquo;re complaining about. I can&rsquo;t make that
change in behavior for you. I cannot decide to abandon the uses
you&rsquo;ve put your mind to for you. But I can tell you that nothing
is going to change until you do that.&rdquo; That&rsquo;s love because
that&rsquo;s intelligence. And that doesn&rsquo;t take the power away
from them, and it doesn&rsquo;t allow them to continue to think that
something outside of their own decision to behave differently will solve
their problem. And so you have been the presence of clarifying
Truth&mdash;clarifying Truth that doesn&rsquo;t mislead them in any way
away from where the solution lies and what the solution is.

&ldquo;Know the Truth about them. Know the Truth about them. Remember
God&rsquo;s Truth about them, and project it toward them and embrace
them in it because minds are joined.&rdquo; Well, what kind of truth are
you talking about projecting toward them? What kind of truth are you
talking about embracing them in, if it isn&rsquo;t the truth that
clearly points them to where the problem lies, and how it can be
corrected there, and that you can&rsquo;t do it for them, and therefore
they must stop looking to you to do it for them, and they must stop
blaming you for not doing it for them, and they must know that
you&rsquo;re not fooled in any way into believing that you must somehow
be able to do it?

We just read last week that whether a Brother is expressing love, which
is real, or a call for love, your only correct response can be
appreciation. Oh boy, can the ego have fun with that, because the one
who is behaving badly and suffering from their bad behavior,
that&rsquo;s their favorite song, that&rsquo;s their favorite
mantra&mdash;&ldquo;If you would just accept me for who I am. If you
would just appreciate me as I am.&rdquo;&mdash;and so they glom on to
that.

The only appropriate response to them, whether they&rsquo;re making a
call for love or an expression of love, is appreciation. But you see,
this is where it can be confusing if you don&rsquo;t understand that
what we&rsquo;ve been reading has to do only with you&mdash;the one
standing in receipt of the call for love&mdash;and the necessity for you
to be clear in your own mind, absent your own agendas for that person,
or that kind of person. Yes. Appreciate your Brother, whether
they&rsquo;re expressing love or extending a call for love. Why? Because
it provides you with the opportunity to reaffirm or confirm your
willingness to only come from the bottom-line honesty of your Being. You
appreciate them for the opportunity it provides you not to join them in
their point of view, through reaction or empathy, and to stay with the
Truth because, as I said last week, that is what constitutes your
Sanity&mdash;not because that&rsquo;s what will heal them, but because
that&rsquo;s what constitutes your Sanity.

And so, one appropriate response might be, &ldquo;You know what? I
really appreciate the opportunity you&rsquo;re providing me by means of
your bad behavior, your obtuse behavior, your attacking behavior, to be
able to clearly say to you your suffering is not because I&rsquo;m not
appreciating you as you are. Your suffering is not because you&rsquo;re
not loved by me.&rdquo;&mdash;which is a favorite refrain
also&mdash;&ldquo;I appreciate you because you&rsquo;re giving me the
opportunity to point out to you that you, and you alone, are responsible
for the experience you&rsquo;re having by virtue of the choices you are
making. And I can tell you that if you will make different choices, you
will have a different experience.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Oh, but I&rsquo;m not doing anything wrong. I&rsquo;m not out of
line. I&rsquo;m not &hellip; You just have this poor concept of
me.&rdquo;

&ldquo;No. You are unemployed, aren&rsquo;t you? You seem, at the
present time, to be unable to secure and keep unemployment [employment]
because of habits and behaviors that you&rsquo;re choosing to practice
and indulge in that make you unable to work together with others. You
are not being able to support yourself. You are not being able to
function constructively in your own life or with others. There is a
reason for this. And I will tell you, because I know the Truth about
you, I will tell you that not to have these things is not your
Birthright. But you&rsquo;re going to have to be willing to look at the
fact that what you&rsquo;re doing doesn&rsquo;t work, isn&rsquo;t
constructive, and is increasing your despair. But, this is work you have
to do.&rdquo;

That&rsquo;s the way you appreciate, in action, the opportunity provided
to you by the one calling for help. It doesn&rsquo;t sound like nearly
as much fun or joy as the soft, cotton-candy, vague atmosphere of loving
thoughts and kindliness and affection that you would rather embrace them
with. But you know what? At the bottom line, because you each have
Integrity, bottom-line actual capital &ldquo;I&rdquo; Integrity, all the
time you&rsquo;re into this cotton-candy, nebulous, formless, embrace of
loving thoughts is insincere, because you have feelings that you
can&rsquo;t get rid of entirely. And there is an indignance in you when
you see a Brother suffering. There is a knowing that it is not right, it
is not Truth. And you&rsquo;re overriding it in favor of some spiritual
practice of nebulousness, loving nebulousness. You are being deceitful.
You are moving into la-la-land. You are not being grounded.

Now you know what? Truth is not licentious. Truth is Truth. Truth, for
lack of better words, is white in the sense that with Truth everything
is black or white, except that being Truth, it&rsquo;s all white and
there is no black. Truth does not allow for untruth. There is that which
works and there is that which doesn&rsquo;t work. And which one works
and which one doesn&rsquo;t work is not a matter of opinion. That which
doesn&rsquo;t work never works, never will work. And as long as someone
engages in what doesn&rsquo;t work, their life is going to be a void,
and it is going to be an experience of stress and misery, because they
are attempting to do the impossible. When you are being honest, you know
this and you experience the freedom of being free of the susceptibility
to the idea that what can&rsquo;t work, might work. And in the absence
of that susceptibility, you feel your strength, which simply means you
feel integrated, cohesive, solid, immovable.

&ldquo;Well, why don&rsquo;t you just appreciate me? I&rsquo;m on my way
home just like you are. And how dare you tell me that where I am on my
path home is wrong?&rdquo; Truth is not licentious. Black is black, and
white is white.

Do you realize that &ldquo;being on your way home&rdquo; can be a
lifetime&rsquo;s career, like being a professional college student who
just never finishes the learning process and thereby just never gets out
into the living of life and the practicing of what&rsquo;s been learned?
Be careful that you are not making a career of waking up, a career of
progressing spiritually in your study of the Course. I&rsquo;ll tell you
something, the more you force yourself to force the Course to be
relevant and practical, the shorter your trip home will be, because it
will put you in the position of self-honesty, and it will help you
abandon the bullshitting. And your abandoning the bullshitting, will
help others abandon it, too.

Now this is something we&rsquo;ve talked about before, but it needs to
be reiterated because we are talking about the fact that the awakening
process involves your breaking your isolation from the Father, but also
from your Brother. And so you seem to unavoidably have to relate to your
Brother; this Brother who is either expressing love or a call for love.

Those who are making a call for love make the call for love from two
fundamental positions. One fundamental position is where they are
suffering and they feel their suffering and they do not want to suffer,
and they&rsquo;re willing to abandon whatever it might be, whatever
ignorance or confusion might be present that is supporting their
suffering. These individuals as a general rule are not engaged in
relating to others at the expense of the others they&rsquo;re relating
to.

The other fundamental requester for help is one who is engaging in sin.
And again, what do I mean by the word &ldquo;sin&rdquo;? I mean that
they are consciously engaged in relating to themselves, or their
Brothers and Sisters, in a way that uses them at their expense,
manipulates them, attempts to control them, and who will use whatever
means they can&mdash;fear, threat, false promises. Sin is the expression
of whatever tends to demoralize a Brother or whatever tends to
demoralize you. And the essential clincher of the definition of sin is
that the one practicing it, takes pleasure in engaging in this dynamic,
such pleasure that they become committed to it, and it becomes the
self-image they wish to reinforce, the picture they wish to present and
substantiate in the world. In other words, they consciously take
pleasure in and make commitment to doing that which disturbs or takes
advantage of a Brother at the Brother&rsquo;s expense.

Now the first one is susceptible to healing. The first one will be able
to hear the response of love, the response of intelligence, that is
provided to the call for love, the call for help, the call for healing.
But the second one is not susceptible. And you must learn to distinguish
the difference. Because if you&rsquo;re in a Pollyanna, cotton-candy
spirituality that is just going to shower whoever comes to you, no
matter what they do to you or how they behave, with appreciation,
you&rsquo;re going to be mowed down, because your naiveté is not going
to prepare you for, for lack of better words, the meanness of the mental
state that is making the apparent call for help. You must learn to
distinguish the difference so that you will come back to that request
for help, that call for help, with the Truth that I expressed earlier.

&ldquo;What you are asking for, the help you are asking for, the request
to get relief without changing your behavior, is a request that cannot
be fulfilled by anyone, not even God. And therefore, what you are
inviting is to get me involved in an entanglement, a tug-of-war. And
I&rsquo;m not available for that because I know better. And you know
what? I&rsquo;m telling you that you know better. So, as long as you
know better, stay away from me. And don&rsquo;t invite me into something
that we both know I&rsquo;m not going to play into. And you sit &hellip;
you sit in your suffering, unless you can find another patsy, until
you&rsquo;re tired of it, and are willing to be accountable to yourself,
and look at the changes that need to be made, accept the changes that
need to be made, and make them. And when you are ready to make the
change, I&rsquo;ll be glad to talk to you.&rdquo;

The call for love has been responded to as though it were a call for
intelligence. And you have not lost your Integrity. You have not
abandoned your Integrity. And you have not abandoned the bottom-line
divinity of you.

It&rsquo;s said that everybody lives lives of quiet desperation. And in
a way everyone does, making the best of it. But you wouldn&rsquo;t be
living lives of quiet desperation if you dared to be honest with
yourselves, deeply connected with the Truth that you know, and lived and
expressed yourself from there. And that&rsquo;s what this chapter that
we&rsquo;re in has been talking about. It&rsquo;s been talking about
nothing else but arriving at a place of being honest within yourself by
not relying upon the picture you have of yourself, the concept you have
of yourself, or the concepts others have of you&mdash;not trying to live
up to them, but abandoning that struggle to be something other than What
You Are, and giving up into What You Are. Giving up into What You Are is
another way of saying turning to the Holy Spirit.

You know, when you finally hit the bottom of the barrel and you actually
give up&mdash;and the giving up is not another ploy, it&rsquo;s
actual&mdash;everything becomes utterly clear. You know what you can do
and you know what you can&rsquo;t do. And you don&rsquo;t feel bad about
it. You don&rsquo;t feel bad about what you can&rsquo;t do. And suddenly
you&rsquo;re free to do what you can do. And because at that point
you&rsquo;re in harmony with the bottom-line of your capital
&ldquo;B&rdquo; Being, your life turns around.

We&rsquo;re talking about becoming real. And the only answer there is
for anyone else calling for help is to become real. And when one becomes
real, when many become real&mdash;there aren&rsquo;t a bunch of
different realities, there are not different
realnesses&mdash;there&rsquo;s perfect harmony, there&rsquo;s perfect
fitting together, because the Integrity of each one of you is the
Integrity of God.

And then what happens? Well, you don&rsquo;t disappear. You don&rsquo;t
get blended into some wholeness. But this genuine one that you are, this
honest one that you are, who no longer has the energy to pretend to be
anything else, finds himself or herself to be not in the movement of
Creation, but the Movement of Creation Itself surfacing, if I may,
bursting forth as you. And you have a gift to make that doesn&rsquo;t
impinge upon anyone else, that doesn&rsquo;t depend upon anyone
else&rsquo;s appreciation or acknowledgment, although it will be there.
And your wholeness, the relief of the experience of your wholeness,
consumes you, fills you full and overflowing so that there is nothing
else there.

But what I&rsquo;m trying to say to you is that that experience, rather
than being some lifted-up lofty place, is something you find at, what
you currently call, the bottom of your barrel&mdash;the place where you
are forced by your innate intelligence [small laugh] to give up what is
causing you suffering, because you&rsquo;re too tired. You do not have
the willingness or the energy to pursue what was causing your suffering
any longer. The bottom-line of you, the place of excellence in you, the
Holy Spirit, is what is left at the bottom of the barrel when all of the
concepts you have laid upon yourself, and all the concepts everyone else
has laid upon you, no longer tempt you to respond to them or to live up
to them. It&rsquo;s the you, you are right now at your most base, if I
may put it that way, at your most fundamental, at this place in you of
utter honesty where there is no deceit any longer.

Now do you see how conscious you have to be? Do you see how un-nebulous
you need to be? Do you see how insane it is to become spiritually
nebulous?

&ldquo;Oh, they just need more love. Love them more. Are you doing this?
Are you doing that?&rdquo;

&ldquo;No, I&rsquo;m not doing this and I&rsquo;m not doing that because
that&rsquo;s not going to help. I&rsquo;m not going to give them more
hugs.&rdquo;

&ldquo;They want to be loved as they are.&rdquo;

&ldquo;If I give them a hug, they will think I am accepting them as they
are&mdash;accepting them not as They Truly Are, but as they perceive
themselves to be&mdash;loving them as the collection of habits that
they&rsquo;re engaged in and saying, &lsquo;Dear, you&rsquo;re all
right. I love you with all of your bad habits. I love you even though
you are trying to embezzle money from me. I love you even though
you&rsquo;re stealing from me right under my nose. I love you even
though, every chance you get, you take advantage of me. I love you even
though you get angry at me at the drop of a hat. I love you even though
you say you do not want to hear any of the good I have to share with
you.&rsquo;&rdquo;

You see? &ldquo;I love you as you are&rdquo; is what they want to
hear&mdash;which means, &ldquo;I am loved as I am, and therefore there
is no call for change.&rdquo; And so you have confirmed their illusion
to them. And you cannot call that love. You might be able to call it
sweetness, but it is not love because it does not call forth in them
that which would uncover to them their freedom from suffering. The
provision of love that is not the provision of intelligence as well, is
an expression of hate. Is an expression of hate. Because when a Brother
is suffering and you do that which substantiates their suffering, what
are you doing? You are engaging in consciously hurting them. And if you
think that you can express love without intelligence, then you&rsquo;re
joining on the side of destruction, you&rsquo;re joining on the side of
unintelligence.

Now we could go on and on. &ldquo;Oh, but I don&rsquo;t want to make
waves. If I do this, it will aggravate that person even more.&rdquo;
Right. So be a silent accomplice. Right. And ignore the fact that while
you&rsquo;re doing it, your ass is griped, because you are going against
your own Integrity. You are going against what you know is right and you
are mad at yourself for dishonoring yourself. So it&rsquo;s much easier
not to have to put forth the effort and the energy. It&rsquo;s much
easier to get nebulously sweet and spiritual.

Now I know, at one time or another, all of you have felt the pull, the
emotional pull of those who are addicted to their bad habits, of those
who are addicted to their insistence upon doing what doesn&rsquo;t
work, and who suffer in the process, and who seek consolation, who seek
inspiration&mdash;inspiration to feel better without having to change.
And I know, at one time or another, you have felt the pull whether
you&rsquo;re in the presence of that individual or not, when you know
that in the night they are wailing within themselves and reaching out
with all their might for someone or something that will inspire them
without their having to change.

If you don&rsquo;t understand the difference between the two kinds of
requests for help, if you are unwilling to recognize sin where it is
being embodied or practiced, you will not know what to do when you
experience the pull&mdash;the emotional and mental pull. And you will be
inclined, because of your kindness, to try to help, and engage
energetically in seeing the Truth about them, in helping them. And
because the help that&rsquo;s wanted is that which will relieve them
without them having to change what causes their suffering, you will not
find an exit point from the experience of the pull.

And so I&rsquo;m going to tell everyone a very spiritual response when
that kind of a call comes, and you say it in your mind: &ldquo;Fuck
off!&rdquo; I use the word very purposely because it&rsquo;s very
difficult for anyone to misunderstand the meaning of those words. You
must extend to them a clear message that you&rsquo;re not available for
the invitation to an everlasting tug-of-war, an everlasting involvement
of manipulation, in which you are going to end up trying to extricate
yourself because you do have enough common sense not to stay in it. You
do not say it &hellip; hopefully you say it early enough that you do not
end up saying it out of anger. But if you have to say it out of anger,
say it with the force that comes with your anger. You say it so that it
makes it utterly clear that you are not a good mark; you are not an
available patsy; that seeking help that won&rsquo;t help is useless with
you.

When this happens, I would in very practical terms suggest to you that
you not engage, immediately after that dismissal, [in] becoming
conscious of the Truth about them. In other words, do not go into prayer
on their behalf. You stay in the clarity of the dismissal from your
presence of that which presents itself as something it is not; that you
are not available for an interaction of deceit. And know within yourself
that when they&rsquo;re ready for change, you will be happy to interact
with them. You must be willing to slam the door in the face of deceit.

And then five minutes later, do not go to the door and open it up a
crack and be curious to see if deceit is still waiting there for you.
You dismiss them, and stand in the substance of that dismissal, in the
strength of that dismissal.

Are you dismissing them, the Real One that they are? No, you&rsquo;re
dismissing deceit and that which is identifying, in itself, entirely
with deceit. And until the Real One that is there who is employing
deceit, finds no payoff in the expression of deceit, the Real One
that&rsquo;s there will not show up at your door as a stray who really
wants to change, who&rsquo;s hungry for change.

I&rsquo;m going to read the first paragraph that we were to cover
tonight to end with. And next week we will begin with it again. I am not
going to go into an explanation of it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Having taught you to accept only loving thoughts in others and to regard
everything else as an appeal for help, He &hellip;1
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; has taught you that FEAR is an appeal for help. This is what
recognizing it REALLY means. If you do not PROTECT it&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; fear, by covering it up or calling it something else &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; HE &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; will re-interpret it. That is the ultimate value TO YOU in
learning to perceive attack as a call for love. We have learned surely
that fear and attack are inevitably associated. If ONLY attack produces
fear, and if you see attack as the call for help that it IS, the
unreality of fear MUST dawn upon you.
</div>

Mind you, once again we are reading here about how the use you are
putting your mind to and how you stay at the bottom-line Integrity of
you, how you choose to go for it, whether attack is being used for the
purpose of eliciting fear in you and causing you to be off-balance and
react, having lost your perspective.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If ONLY attack produces fear, and if you see attack as the call for help
that it IS, the unreality of fear MUST dawn upon you. For fear IS a call
for love, &hellip;
</div>

Listen to this.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; in unconscious recognition of what has been denied.
</div>

The &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; fear &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that others express. Fear as a means of controlling &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; IS a call for love, in unconscious recognition &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; where? The person making the call for love.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; in unconscious recognition of what has been denied.
</div>

The one calling for help employs it, employs fear, employs aggression,
employs attack, in unconscious recognition of what has been denied. In
other words, that one has arrived at a point where the something they
are overlooking in themselves is registering with them enough to make
them say, &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t deserve what I&rsquo;m
experiencing.&rdquo; But since they are still committed to it (their
goals), they project &hellip; they project the source of their emptiness
out there and vent their feeling out there. In their unwillingness to
acknowledge that they are doing what doesn&rsquo;t work, so that they
might change, they hold on to their right to continue to do what
they&rsquo;re doing, believing that they ought to be able to do it
without suffering, and therefore what is causing their suffering
can&rsquo;t be them. It must be you; it must be someone out there.

And so when they extend it to you, when they direct their frustration
out there and it is really a call for love, this is when you must
remember that a call for love is a call for intelligence. And this is
when you must remember that if that one is committed to bad behavior,
behavior that doesn&rsquo;t work, and they are getting pleasure and
payoff in it, you cannot help. And you must shut the door as an
expression of simple, utter intelligence, so that they find no payoff
that continues to fuel their intent to proceed without changing.

If someone is expressing fear as a result of an unconscious recognition
within themselves of what they have been denying, do not relieve them
of that unconscious recognition with Pollyanna spirituality, and behave
in a way that leaves them sitting clearly with what they are doing,
without being a distraction from it. That is responding to the call for
love with love/intelligence. And you thereby will be being an active
agent for change.

I hope all of you have more of a desire to know the Truth than to
understand A Course in Miracles. You&rsquo;re here to serve Truth, not a
teaching. When you read the Course, don&rsquo;t just try to understand
what it is saying; desire to let it illuminate Truth for you. And if you
don&rsquo;t understand something in the Course, go to Truth for the
answer. Go to Truth and say, &ldquo;What is the Truth, Truth, of what
I&rsquo;m reading here?&rdquo; Let the Course serve to point you to the
Truth. If you lost your copy of the Course and you were in a place where
you couldn&rsquo;t obtain another copy for five years, you
wouldn&rsquo;t be lost because Truth is available to you directly.

Keep it clear that whatever books you read, if they are to serve you
well, will point you in the direction of Truth so that you might rely on
it more completely. And I will tell you something. Truth with a capital
&ldquo;T&rdquo;, God&rsquo;s Truth, the essential Reality of each and
every thing, is right in the middle of you at the bottom-line Integrity
of you. That&rsquo;s what is left after you have abandoned attempting to
fulfill concepts.

I love you. I love each of you for the inherent capacity you have to be
honest. I look forward to being with you next week.

[^1]: T11.1 The Judgement of the Holy Spirit

