---
title: Dec 4, 2005
ref: "T11.1 The Judgement of the Holy Spirit"
alink: "/acim/text/11/chap1101/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who is joining us on the Internet.

Well, I mentioned last week that the ego will take whatever the Course
says and use it for its purposes, and it will take things I have to say
and use it for its purposes. And, indeed, this has happened. [laughing]
And so there are a couple of things I want to be very clear about again.

First off, when I gave these very spiritual words to be used to dismiss
the invitation received (and I will not make Paul say the words again,
but the words were &ldquo;f--- off&rdquo;), many of you after having
heard it and then remembering back to what I said, remembered me saying
&ldquo;f--- you.&rdquo; And there&rsquo;s a great difference between
&ldquo;f--- you&rdquo; and &ldquo;f--- off.&rdquo; &ldquo;F---
you&rdquo; is a curse that you are specifically directing toward a
person. Whereas &ldquo;f--- off&rdquo; is a dismissal&mdash;and that was
the pure and simple intent of the statement.

Misunderstanding it though and thinking it was a statement &ldquo;f---
you,&rdquo; many have thought that I was giving permission, especially
in light of all I said about honesty, that it gave you license to call
each other on each other&rsquo;s shit&mdash;point out their flaws, point
out their errors, and clearly express how you felt about it. Now this is
nothing more than careless and sloppy thinking, and careless listening.

And I invite you to listen more attentively to what I&rsquo;m saying,
because I am speaking very clearly. And I am saying exactly what I mean.

The statement, the dismissal &ldquo;f--- off&rdquo; was a dismissal to
an invitation. In other words, I was speaking in very narrow terms here.
It was a dismissal of an invitation extended to you mentally. In other
words, where you can feel the pull, whether the person is in your
presence or not. You can feel the invitation to be drawn in to help them
feel better without having to change the behavior they are expressing
which is occasioning their suffering&mdash;and very specifically, an
invitation from someone who is taking pleasure in keeping you, and
anyone else they can, at a disadvantage. I referred to it as
&ldquo;sin.&rdquo; One&mdash;and let&rsquo;s listen carefully&mdash;one
who takes pleasure in putting another at a disadvantage for the purposes
of usury, for the purposes of manipulation, for the purposes of
control&mdash;one who takes pleasure in this, and is committed to this
kind behavior, is not suffering from sickness; they are suffering from
sin.

When an invitation, or a ploy, or a pull, is extended toward you by
someone who is wanting to engage you in a position of deception which
will put you at a disadvantage, you must decline the invitation. I did
not say you should curse them. You must decline the invitation. You must
say, &ldquo;I am not available for this tug-of-war. I am not available
for this state of conflict you would invite me into. And it would be a
state of conflict because what you&rsquo;re inviting me into has a
motive behind it different from what you are saying to me. I am not
available for this.&rdquo; Accept that you must decline the invitation
in as absolute terms as you can muster. And that is why I used the
dismissal &ldquo;f--- off&rdquo; (a decline of the invitation, not a
curse on the person).

Now I also made it very clear that in the last couple of chapters or
sections that we&rsquo;ve been reading, we have not arrived at a point
yet where it is telling you how to effect a change in another, even
though we are discussing how to be an agent for change, how to respond
to a call for love, how to respond to a call for help that actually
helps. We have not arrived yet at a point of extension toward the other.
We are still talking about what you, within your own mind, are going to
do in order to be an effective agent for change.

Now, most of you are familiar with Shakespeare&rsquo;s statement:
&ldquo;To thine own self be true, and it must follow as the night the
day, thou canst not then be false to any man.&rdquo; Okay, so
we&rsquo;re reading about responding to a call for love. And in effect,
we&rsquo;re talking about how you can respond without being false in any
way. That&rsquo;s what we&rsquo;re talking about. And the question is,
&ldquo;How do you manage to talk to your fellowman and not be false in
any way?&rdquo; Well, it isn&rsquo;t from book-learning. It isn&rsquo;t
from theories. It&rsquo;s from a simple practice: Be true to yourself.

Know where you&rsquo;re coming from. Be conscious enough of your own
behavior to know whether you&rsquo;re coming from a manipulative place,
whether you&rsquo;re coming from a controlling place, whether in your
attempt to help, you have an agenda, a personal agenda of your own,
which you would engage your Brother or Sister in so that their getting
better is to your advantage, for example. You see? Or so that their
healing has a reasonable amount of justice included in it so that they
pay a &ldquo;reasonable penalty.&rdquo; You see? That&rsquo;s not
innocence on your part. That&rsquo;s being unconscious yourself of what
your real motive must be if you are the direct expression of God and
nothing less.

As I said last week, last time, we&rsquo;re talking about, at this
point, getting your own head on straight. And so we aren&rsquo;t
discussing in any way, shape, or form, looking out there at another and
calling him on his shit, or uncovering his flaws and proving his deceit.
We&rsquo;re not talking about acts on your part effecting a change on a
Brother. We&rsquo;ll get to that part, but that&rsquo;s not where
we&rsquo;re at right now.

And what I said had nothing to do with giving you license to express
your best perception of what&rsquo;s going on, and to do an analysis of
your Brother&rsquo;s psyche, and come to conclusions, and then attack
him or her on the basis of your assessment. Before you open your mouth
when you are talking to a Brother or a Sister, ask yourself,
&ldquo;Would God be saying this to them? Would the Christ be saying this
to them? Would the Holy Spirit say what I&rsquo;m about to say?&rdquo;

If you don&rsquo;t ask that question, then all you&rsquo;re doing is
coming from your own best judgments. And you are doing it unjoined and
unconscious of your inseparable unity with God, with the Christ, with
the Holy Spirit. And so you are behaving, I&rsquo;m going to say, in a
state of denial of What You Divinely Are, blocking completely your
capacity to reflect God, to reflect Love that heals. You&rsquo;re
covering yourself up and giving preference to the picture you have of
yourself that is replacing What You Divinely Are. And you are being
dishonest.

So when I&rsquo;m talking about expressing yourself honestly, I&rsquo;m
talking about you expressing your Self, with a capital &ldquo;S&rdquo;,
honestly; not you, who you think you are, expressing the way you think
you feel from a separated place truly, straightforwardly, bluntly. That
will never heal, because what comes from you does not come from a union.
It does not come from a communion. It comes from a separate private
place, from something that exists only in your imagination. And the only
thing that will ever do is cause and promote and confirm confusion, for
you and those around you, unless they are really alert in your presence.

So let&rsquo;s be very clear on this. Being honest means behaving,
acting out from that which is truly you underneath and behind any
concepts, any pictures, you have of yourself. It&rsquo;s you speaking
from your connectedness with What You Divinely Are. And so, we&rsquo;re
still talking about, we&rsquo;re still reading about consciously giving
your attention in that direction, and then listening to see what the
response would be.

And the response will never be a curse on your Brother or your Sister.
On the other hand, you can count on it that it will be a dismissal, in
your own mind, of any temptation that comes your way, inviting you to
acknowledge in your Brother and Sister something that is not
representative of what they truly are, and which invites you to
participate in trying to accomplish what can&rsquo;t be accomplished.
When that is done from the very center of your Being, to the best of
your ability, I&rsquo;m going to say, the one whose invitation is being
dismissed will have to work real hard to feel personally dismissed or
snubbed in the process, because it will be impossible for him to find in
you an edge, a hurtfulness, or even a satisfaction in being able to
deliver hurt, which is another way of describing &ldquo;extracting
justice out of the situation.&rdquo;

Okay, let&rsquo;s go into the book.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Having taught you to accept only loving thoughts in others and to regard
everything else as an appeal for help, He &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; has taught you that FEAR is an appeal for help. This is what
recognizing it REALLY means. If you do not PROTECT it&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the fear &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; HE will re-interpret it. That is the ultimate value TO YOU in
learning to perceive attack as a call for love.
</div>

And again, to be perfectly clear: If you having experienced a call for
love that has come forth as that which invites fear&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you do not PROTECT it, HE &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; will re-interpret it.
</div>

To you.

To help you not take the bait (to see it as something other than a call
for help). To help you not take the bait (to see it as attack and
respond in a like manner with defense).

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; HE will re-interpret it.
</div>

To you, in your own mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
That is the ultimate value &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; to who?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; TO YOU &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; not the one who&rsquo;s making the call for help.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
That is the ultimate value TO YOU in learning to perceive attack as a
call for love.
</div>

You see? We&rsquo;re talking about what&rsquo;s going on in your mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
We have learned surely that fear and attack are inevitably associated.
If ONLY attack produces fear, and if you see attack as the call for help
that it IS, the unreality of fear MUST dawn upon you.
</div>

You see? Someone expresses himself in a frightful way, expressing a
great deal of fear, or expressing ideas that invite you to become
fearful. If you listen to what is said, and you choose to believe that
something fearful is happening, you will completely forget that there is
another way to look at this, and to see it as a call for love from one
who has forgotten Who He Is and forgotten what his connections
are&mdash;his unchangeable oneness with God, Who loves him with a
Perfect Love that casts out fear.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; if you see attack as the call for help that it IS, the
unreality of fear MUST dawn upon you.
</div>

Why? Because you can see that there is delusion going on here, not
something real. And you can see that the one who is deluded, is really
the Christ, really the Son of God, having forgotten who he or she is,
and in the lapse of memory, feels the loss of Identity, which is
frightening, is unsettling. And when you see that, then whatever that
one is presenting, becomes meaningless in light of what the Truth is
about them. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For fear IS a call for love, in unconscious recognition of what has been
denied.
</div>

Tell me, why would any of you ever feel afraid? Well, because
you&rsquo;re attempting to be something you cannot be. You&rsquo;re
attempting to be an orphan. You&rsquo;re attempting to be independent.
You&rsquo;re attempting to be as a sole (s-o-l-e) operator, which
isn&rsquo;t What You Are. You&rsquo;re attempting to be something you
cannot be. You are part of the Brotherhood. You are part of everything,
and everything is part of you. You are a wholeness, and a part of
wholeness, you might say. You have the capacity to experience yourself
infinitely and specifically simultaneously.

But if you try to experience yourself specifically at the expense of
your infiniteness, which is an impossibility, you will feel
uncomfortable at the attempt, uneasy at the attempt. Why? Because the
Truth of you, the Wholeness of you&mdash;that can&rsquo;t be excluded
even if you try to give your attention so specifically to one small
aspect of the infinity of you&mdash;confronts you. The infinitude of you
confronts you even in your attempt to be tiny. It pushes for, it calls
for your conscious re-embrace of the rest of you. It calls you, with
insistence, to abandon your denial of all the rest of you, to abandon
your attempt to narrow your attention down to the miniscule. Why?
Because you cannot successfully become insane.

And so, What You Divinely Are pressures you in your highly focused
attentiveness, to abandon the high focus, the narrowed focus. The
greater part of you says, &ldquo;You can&rsquo;t forget me.&rdquo; And
because you are whole and you can&rsquo;t forget your wholeness, you
will experience your wholeness right in the middle of your tiny focus as
a pressure, as something that does not feel natural to you, to get your
attention.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; fear IS a call for love, in unconscious recognition &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in other words, in the presence of the pressure of your
wholeness that you have repressed from your awareness, which is called
an unconscious recognition. It&rsquo;s felt, but you can&rsquo;t quite
identify it because you have repressed it so successfully.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; fear IS a call for love, in unconscious recognition of what has
been denied.
</div>

In unconscious recognition of the rest of the infinitude of you that you
are denying by giving preference to the highly-focused, tiny attention
which you are occupying your mind with.

You see, when an event happens in your day and you respond to it based
upon your memory and your best judgments, without ever tapping into the
rest of you that is present, without ever inquiring of the Holy Spirit,
&ldquo;What is the Truth here?&rdquo;&mdash;your private response is an
active denial of your divinity, of the wholeness of you, that it&rsquo;s
really your Birthright to be experiencing and expressing. You&rsquo;re
leaving God out&mdash;which is another way of saying you&rsquo;re
leaving the Holy Spirit out&mdash;which is another way of saying
you&rsquo;re leaving out that which is nothing more than your right
Mind. But when you do, you never feel totally at peace. Why? Because the
pressure of What You Divinely Are will not let you be totally
comfortable. It is impossible for you to be totally comfortable in your
own private perception of the Kingdom of Heaven.

The next section is entitled:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*The Mechanism of Miracles*

Fear is a symptom of your deep sense of loss.
</div>

Loss of what? The rest of you. The other ninety-eight percent of you
that you are ignoring by giving preference to the two percent
you&rsquo;re choosing to look at and validate and define. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Fear is a symptom of your deep sense of loss. If when you perceive it in
others &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in other words, when you perceive in others, fear&mdash;which
is a deep sense of their loss.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you learn to SUPPLY the loss&hellip;

If when you perceive it in others you learn to SUPPLY the loss, the
basic CAUSE of fear is removed.
</div>

Let&rsquo;s turn this around. If when I perceive in you a deep sense of
loss because you&rsquo;ve forgotten Who You Are or you&rsquo;re denying
Who You Are, I know to supply the loss, and the basic cause of your fear
is removed.

I remind you of Who You Are. I don&rsquo;t confirm who you think you
are. I remind you of the other ninety-eight percent of you. I remind you
of your connection with God. I remind you that the Holy Spirit is not
part of the trinity off in the ethers, but is nothing more than your
right Mind, so that you realize that there is more to you than
you&rsquo;ve been availing yourselves of, so that you might be inspired
to avail yourself of it by giving your attention in that direction,
rather than relying entirely upon your knee-jerk, habitual responses to
everything out of your memory. And as I do that, your fear is reduced.

Now, again, with reference to your behavior toward your Brother.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If when you perceive it in others you learn to SUPPLY the loss, the
basic CAUSE of fear is removed.
</div>

Where? In your Brother. But first, it&rsquo;s got to be removed in you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Thereby you teach yourself that fear does not exist IN YOU, for you have
IN YOURSELF the means for removing it, and have demonstrated this by
GIVING it.
</div>

Now if you&rsquo;re willing to see your Brother&rsquo;s behavior as a
call for love, as a call for help, and you&rsquo;re willing to give that
help to your Brother, even if you don&rsquo;t know exactly how
you&rsquo;re going to accomplish it, you have abandoned any prejudgments
you have about that Brother that would block you from caring enough to
want to extend love. And that opens the door for the influx of Love from
the Father, in you, through you, to your Brother.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Fear and love are the only emotions of which you are capable. One is
false for it was made out of denial, and denial depends on the real
belief in what is denied for its OWN existence.
</div>

Of the two&mdash;fear and Love&mdash;one is false. And the one
that&rsquo;s false is fear.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
One is false for it was made out of denial&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; denial of what? Who You Are. What you divinely are, what you
really are, in spite of what you&rsquo;ve been educated to believe you
are. The divine one. The Christ.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
One is false for it was made out of denial, and denial depends on the
real belief in what is denied for its OWN existence.
</div>

You see, you can&rsquo;t deny nothing. The only thing any of you go
around denying is something Real.

Fear is what we&rsquo;re talking about, remember. If you are
experiencing fear, it is because you have forgotten Who You Are, and are
giving preference to something else. And in giving preference to
something else, you are denying What You Really Are, and you are denying
something that is Real. What You Truly Are is Real, What You Infinitely
Are is Real, even though you think you are finite.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
One is false for it was made out of denial, and denial depends &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; I&rsquo;m going to say:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; on the Reality of that which is denied for its own existence.
</div>

In other words, for an act of denial to exist, you have to be opposing
something that is Real. Therefore, if you are in a state of denial, the
very practice of denial, by reversal, is a statement of the presence of
What Is Truly True&mdash;Real, with a capital &ldquo;R&rdquo;. You have
to be willing to practice the art of contrary thinking here.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
One is false for it was made out of denial, and denial depends on the
real belief in what is denied for its OWN existence.
</div>

Now listen to this using the art of contrary thinking.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
By interpreting fear correctly AS A POSITIVE AFFIRMATION OF THE
UNDERLYING BELIEF IT MASKS, you are undermining its perceived usefulness
by rendering it useless.
</div>

You see, you, in spite of yourselves, believe that you are divine. In
spite of your habitual thinking habits, you believe that you are Real,
with a capital &ldquo;R&rdquo;, that you are eternal, and that you are,
therefore, incapable of conflict of any kind. That is what you believe.

And because you believe it, you argue against your suffering. You do
everything you can to avoid your suffering. Why? Because you believe you
do not deserve it. And the reason you believe you don&rsquo;t deserve
it, is because you know, at the very roots of your Being, that conflict
and suffering is not your Birthright.

Again.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
By interpreting fear correctly AS A POSITIVE AFFIRMATION OF THE
UNDERLYING BELIEF IT MASKS, you are undermining its perceived usefulness
by rendering it useless.
</div>

&ldquo;I am afraid because there&rsquo;s an underlying Reality of me
that it&rsquo;s my Birthright to experience, and therefore I know that
the suffering I&rsquo;m experiencing cannot be valid. Therefore, I can
use the experience of fear as a confirmation, as an affirmation, as a
concrete conscious experience of my divinity, by using the art of
contrary thinking. And I can choose to weigh, to place my anchor in that
truth, and let it be dominant because it is dominant truly.&rdquo;

And as that awareness goes through your mind, your fear diminishes. You
are undermining the fear&rsquo;s perceived usefulness by rendering it
useless.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Defenses which do not work at all are AUTOMATICALLY discarded.
</div>

You automatically discard them when you see that they aren&rsquo;t
needed or they are a useless waste of energy.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you raise what fear conceals &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; if you bring to the surface what&rsquo;s behind the fear.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you raise what fear conceals to CLEAR-CUT, UNEQUIVOCAL PREDOMINANCE,
fear becomes meaningless.
</div>

What&rsquo;s behind fear?

What&rsquo;s behind fear? You see, the ego would say, &ldquo;Okay, what
has gone on in your background? What are the foolish beliefs
you&rsquo;ve been employing that seem to make fear reasonable and
justifiable? Let&rsquo;s get behind the fear. [small laugh] Let&rsquo;s
get down to the root of the fear.&rdquo; But you will always look within
the confines, the context of a separated mind where the fear is going
on.

When you get behind the fear, you discover what? You discover the Truth
about you. You discover your omnipresence. You discover the Birthright
of your omnipotence. You discover the actuality of Singularity as your
Birthright, in which nothing conflicted can occur, and which therefore
makes utterly, experientially clear to you that there is no cause for
fear. When you get behind the fear, when you get to what the fear is
covering up, you get to the Truth of you that says you are a divine
Being, incapable of fear; needing not to exercise fear because you are
invulnerable.

And what happens then? You simply abandon the fear because it serves no
purpose. It is a useless activity. That&rsquo;s what happens when you
raise what fear conceals to clear-cut, unequivocal predominance. Fear
becomes meaningless then.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have denied its power to conceal &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; love, which was its only purpose.
</div>

Fear&rsquo;s only purpose was to conceal love. But you all think that
fear has the purpose of protecting you; that it&rsquo;s useful, that
it&rsquo;s essential, if you&rsquo;re going to survive in this
dog-eat-dog world.

But, no.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have denied its power to conceal love, which was its only purpose.
The mask which YOU have drawn across the face of love has disappeared.
</div>

Now, if &ldquo;the mask which you have drawn across the face of love has
disappeared,&rdquo; it must mean that you have followed the direction
quote, &ldquo;To thine own self be true.&rdquo; You see? Honest.
You&rsquo;ve gotten down to bedrock. You&rsquo;ve gotten down to the
foundation of your Being. You&rsquo;ve gotten down to the Truth about
you, which is that you&rsquo;re not this little piss-ant mortal that you
have thought you were, that you have been convicted in your belief
about, and neither are any of your Brothers or Sisters, who have been
suffering from the same belief.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you would look upon love, which IS the world&rsquo;s reality&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you see? No more of this, &ldquo;The world is an illusion. The
world isn&rsquo;t real.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you would look upon love, which IS the world&rsquo;s reality, how
could you do better than to recognize, in every defense AGAINST
it&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; here&rsquo;s the art of contrary thinking &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the underlying appeal FOR it? And how could you better learn of
its reality than by answering the appeal for it by GIVING it?
</div>

Well, you certainly won&rsquo;t be able to give it if you are going to
call &ldquo;the call for love&rdquo; something else, like hateful
behavior, or, you know, the expected behavior from someone like that.
You see? If you&rsquo;re going to call &ldquo;the call for love&rdquo;
an expression of hate that you better protect yourself against,
you&rsquo;re not going to be [in] any position to answer &ldquo;the call
for love&rdquo; by giving it, because you&rsquo;re going to withhold it.
Why? Because you have decided to call &ldquo;the call for love&rdquo;
something else.

Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit&rsquo;s interpretation of fear DOES dispel it&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and you can&rsquo;t say, &ldquo;Oh, well, that&rsquo;s fine and
dandy. Yeah. I would imagine the Holy Spirit &hellip; the Holy
Spirit&rsquo;s interpretation would dispel it.&rdquo; Well, remember,
[laughing] the Holy Spirit is nothing more than your right Mind. So
don&rsquo;t just blow it off, else you&rsquo;re blowing your Self off.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit&rsquo;s interpretation &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the interpretation of that which is nothing more than your
right Mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit&rsquo;s interpretation of fear DOES dispel it, for the
AWARENESS of truth cannot BE denied. Thus does the Holy Spirit replace
fear with love and translate error into truth. And thus will YOU learn
of Him how to replace your dream of separation with the fact of unity.
For the separation is only the DENIAL of union, and &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; here&rsquo;s our art of contrary thinking &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; correctly interpreted, attests to your eternal knowledge that
union is true.

Miracles are merely the translation of denial into truth.
</div>

Shakespeare in Macbeth wrote the line, &ldquo;Methinks thou doth protest
too much!&rdquo; And the point of the statement is that when one is
going around protesting something obsessively, unreasonably, it usually
implies that whatever that one is defending himself against is probably
the truth about them, else they wouldn&rsquo;t be going overboard
denying it.

Well, likewise, if you&rsquo;re going around every day relying entirely
upon your best judgments, you are in a constant state of denial of What
You Are. You are constantly protesting your Birthright. You&rsquo;re
constantly protesting your divinity. And by virtue of the art of
contrary thinking, you are demonstrating the fact that you believe that
you are divine, that the Truth about you that you are denying really is
the Truth about you, and therefore, isn&rsquo;t unavailable to you;
it&rsquo;s just being ignored by you.

And as I&rsquo;ve now repeated many times, where we are in this book and
in the explanation of God&rsquo;s Plan for salvation and your process of
awakening, we are giving our attention entirely to your honesty, to your
willingness not to be denying the Truth about you. Because as long as
you are denying the Truth about you, you are as caught up and engaged in
the practice of mutual defense as everyone else is. And you, therefore,
are completely inhibited from responding to a call for love with the
love that will make fear a useless and meaningless element of your
existence or of your Brother&rsquo;s, so that transformation of mind can
occur.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Miracles are merely the translation of denial into truth. If to love
oneself is to HEAL oneself, those who are sick do NOT love themselves.
Therefore, they are asking for the love that would heal them, but which
they are denying to themselves.
</div>

Mind you now, I want you to remain aware of the fact that there&rsquo;s
a difference between sickness and sin. One does not take pleasure and
make commitment to being sick. But one does take pleasure in and make
commitment to indulging in sin. Therefore, what we&rsquo;re reading
right now does not apply to those who are indulging in sin. Those who
are indulging in commitment to harming others and who take pleasure in
it, will not hear the expression of love until they arrive at a point of
recognizing exactly the mechanism they are using, and abandon it. But
those who are sick are not committed to being sick, and do not have a
defensive shell around them that keeps them protected from feeling love
that the one who engages in sin does. Those who are taking pleasure in
hurting others, do it from a highly-defended place, because they intend
not to be swerved from their commitment. They intend not to be swerved
from the high they get from succeeding at making someone else hurt.

Now let&rsquo;s continue here, keeping in mind that we&rsquo;re talking
about the sick, not the sinner. And I&rsquo;m going to back up.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Miracles are merely the translation of denial into truth. If to love
oneself is to HEAL oneself, those who are sick do NOT love themselves.
Therefore, they are asking for the love that would heal them, but which
they are denying to themselves.
</div>

How are they denying it? With simple, stupid beliefs. &ldquo;Well,
I&rsquo;m a mortal. I&rsquo;m just a physical organism. I&rsquo;m part
of an evolutionary process. I function within the limits of that
process. I function within the limits of the normal processes of
matter.&rdquo; And on and on. &ldquo;What can I expect? That&rsquo;s
just the way it is.&rdquo; But none of that&rsquo;s true about them. But
what is true about them, they&rsquo;re denying to themselves.

So:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Therefore, they are asking for the love that would heal them, but which
they are denying to themselves.
</div>

Here we are talking about a stray animal that comes to your door
that&rsquo;s truly hungry for change. That&rsquo;s what the sick are.

The sinners that come to your door are looking to be strengthened so
that they might continue in their life commitment. And in the process of
your helping them, they will screw you, if they can, as well. Until they
see their behavior pattern, and until they recognize that it is not
getting them fulfillment, and until after recognizing it, they abandon
the practice, the shell, the well-reinforced shell will not dissolve and
become permeable so as [to allow them] to feel their hunger for what
they are denying&mdash;love; until they feel hunger for peace. Then they
will be able to hear the response of love to the call for love.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Therefore, they &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the sick &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; are asking for the love that would heal them, but which they
are denying to themselves. If they knew the truth about themselves they
could not BE sick. The task of the miracle-worker thus becomes TO DENY
THE DENIAL OF TRUTH.
</div>

The task of the miracle worker is to be able to stand there and say,
&ldquo;You know, what you&rsquo;re believing isn&rsquo;t true. And
you&rsquo;re not, you&rsquo;re really not under threat. And you&rsquo;re
really not subject to physical processes that can leave you at a
disadvantage, because you are the Child of God. And I see your
lovableness. And it is perfectly clear to me that you are not in an
environment of actual threat. And I will stand here with you as long as
I need to and confirm to you the Truth about you until you can see
it.&rdquo;

That&rsquo;s called &ldquo;denying the denial of Truth.&rdquo;
Everything I&rsquo;m doing with you is denying your denial of Truth.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The sick must heal THEMSELVES, for the truth is in them. Yet, having
OBSCURED it, the light in ANOTHER mind must shine into theirs because
that light IS theirs.
</div>

You see, you need me to remind you of what is true about you. And I can
remind you of what is true about you because it&rsquo;s true about
me&mdash;and I haven&rsquo;t forgotten it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The sick must heal THEMSELVES&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you see, you&rsquo;ve still got to do the work. You&rsquo;ve
still got to take the apparently risky step of believing something
that&rsquo;s hard for you to believe.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The sick must heal THEMSELVES, for the truth is in them. Yet, having
OBSCURED it, the light in ANOTHER mind must shine into theirs because
that light IS theirs.

The light in them shines as brightly REGARDLESS of the density of the
fog that obscures it. If YOU give no power to the fog to obscure the
light it HAS none, for it has power only because the Son of God gave
power to it.
</div>

&ldquo;Oh, but the fog is so thick! The fog is so thick I can&rsquo;t
see! The fog is so thick!&rdquo; No. No. Take a deep breath. [breathing
deeply] Take another deep breath. [again breathing deeply]

Just stand with me. Give your attention to me. Forget about the fog for
the moment. Even if you can&rsquo;t see me through the fog, you can hear
my voice and you can hear my tone and you can feel my meaning. Let your
mind and attention be with me. And be aware of the Love with which
I&rsquo;m embracing you.

Now these are not words for you to write down and repeat, because your
own clarity about the unrealness of the fog will provide you with the
utterly appropriate words at the moment when you&rsquo;re standing with
your Brother and dispelling the fear by giving the love.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He must HIMSELF withdraw that power&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the power he&rsquo;s given to the fog &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; remembering that ALL power is of God.
</div>

And we could say: Remembering that all power is of Love.

That&rsquo;s why, in the words I used, I invited that one to be aware of
the Love that I was expressing and being with him.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
YOU CAN REMEMBER THIS FOR ALL THE SONSHIP.
</div>

But you know what? You can&rsquo;t remember it for any of the Sonship if
you haven&rsquo;t first been true to yourself. And again, that is the
step we&rsquo;re on at this point in the book. &ldquo;To thine own self
be true, and it must follow as the night the day,&rdquo; you can
remember this for all the Sonship. But that&rsquo;s the second step.
That&rsquo;s the result, not the act you engage in. You don&rsquo;t
engage in an act of remembering it for all the Sonship. You engage in
the act of being true to yourself, and the result is that you will
remember it for all the Sonship.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Do not allow your brother not to remember, for his forgetfulness is
YOURS.
</div>

If you&rsquo;re not remembering together, you&rsquo;re not remembering
fully, and it&rsquo;s your loss.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Do not allow your brother not to remember, for his forgetfulness is
YOURS. But YOUR remembering is HIS, for God cannot be remembered alone.
THIS IS WHAT YOU HAVE FORGOTTEN. To perceive the healing of your brother
as the healing of yourself is thus the way to remember God.

To perceive the healing of your brother as the healing of
yourself is thus the way to remember God.
</div>

If you wish to respond to the call for love that your Brother has
expressed, you must, for lack of better words, prepare yourself for the
task first, and you can do this in a moment. I&rsquo;m not talking about
a lifetime practice. You can prepare yourself by saying, &ldquo;Okay,
here is a serious call for love.&rdquo; What I mean by that is, here is
a legitimate call for love. &ldquo;Therefore, I will honor it by not
being frivolous and responding off the top of my head.&rdquo; You
don&rsquo;t have to go through all these words. Instead of all those
words, you can say, &ldquo;Holy Spirit, what is the Truth here?&rdquo;
And in doing that, you abandon your memory banks and your conditioned
reflexes, and you listen. You abandon your own thinking and you listen,
so that the Truth about your Brother can dawn in your thought and
inspire the words that will not confirm what he is ignorantly believing,
but will inspire the release of them in favor of the much more desirable
awareness of Truth that is being illuminated in their mind in a manner
that is perfectly reasonable to them. So, bear with the process here of
waking up, of becoming clear.

And do not be impatient to get to the part you are imagining is coming,
where you will have learned something and now you can say,
&ldquo;Shazam!&rdquo; and the person will be healed. And you will have
been able to act authoritatively, but from a spiritual standpoint, from
a divinely authorized standpoint, and will have become an effective
healer in the world, in the horrible world that is in such need of
healing. You see? We&rsquo;re talking about the use you&rsquo;re putting
your mind to, and preparing your mind, what? To authorize something? No.
To be the place that can be infilled with redemptive truth that redeems
your Brother and you at the same time.

Speed over this, get through it quickly so you can get on to the good
part, and you might as well put the book down, and you might as well
abandon your awakening. This is very important.

I love you all. Be at peace. Having received a full meal, be at peace
and let it digest, and let it move you. Let it mature you. Let it expand
you. And don&rsquo;t be wondering what you&rsquo;re going to have for
your next meal.

I look forward to being with you next week.

[^1]: T11.1 The Judgement of the Holy Spirit

