---
title: Dec 11, 2005
ref: "Discussion"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who is joining us on the Internet.

This past week Paul received an interesting email in which objection was
taken to my language during the past two gatherings (study groups). And
a request was made that Paul delete the offending words from the audio
tapes, with a strong suggestion that if I didn&rsquo;t, that probably
support for the work he and I (Paul and I) are engaged in, would
diminish.

Well, I&rsquo;m not surprised. Two thousand years ago people quibbled
about my words. When I healed someone in the name of God, I was
challenged because I did not have &ldquo;the authority&rdquo; to do
that&mdash;meaning I didn&rsquo;t have the credentials that honored me
with the right to do it. I was accused of consorting with publicans and
sinners. In other words, not the upper spiritual crust of society. And
the accusations were made with much judgment, if I may put it this way,
much self-righteous judgment.

I might suggest that a worse word, than the one I used, is actually two
words: self righteousness. Self righteousness.

Yes, I associate with publicans and sinners, and not the spiritual hoi
polloi. And why? Because the publicans and sinners don&rsquo;t have the
mutually-accepted definitions well developed that define what makes one
acceptable or not. They see you; they speak to you; you respond to them.
And they&rsquo;re very real, right where they are, and with you. It
doesn&rsquo;t matter what your background is. It matters how
you&rsquo;re being with them in the moment. And the other thing is that
because they are not puffed up with self-pride, it doesn&rsquo;t get in
the way of communication. And they know that they don&rsquo;t know. And
so their curiosity is genuine; their openness is genuine.

A year or two ago, Paul and Sue pulled into a little hole-in-the-wall
pizza parlor. And they were in a rush, so they picked this place which
they had never been to before. And they pulled up in front and there
were about ten Harley-Davidsons parked out, heavy with leather and
silver, and you knew these weren&rsquo;t casual cyclists. And they went
in and here were ten or twelve leather-jacketed, bearded, gruff-looking,
rough-looking men sitting around a table. And Paul and Susan sat down
nearby; placed their order. And while they were sitting there, they
couldn&rsquo;t help but overhear the conversation.  And needless to say,
it wasn&rsquo;t exactly what they were expecting.  They heard the words
&ldquo;Jesus&rdquo; and &ldquo;God&rdquo; and other Christian
terminology. And they surreptitiously glanced over at the table, and
here each of the men had a Bible in front of them on the table, and they
were having their church service. And in fact, when they noticed that
Paul and Susan were curious, they invited them over to join them.

Now, do you really think that I only talk to the people with
&ldquo;clean&rdquo; minds? I mean, let&rsquo;s be real. And do you think
the language of these bikers when they&rsquo;re out on the road, is not
worse than the word I used, on a more consistent basis? And when they
get mad, do you not think that they curse me, with a longer string of
obscenities that express anger rather than a point? And do you think
I&rsquo;m offended? Do you think I&rsquo;m shocked by the language?

I&rsquo;m going to tell all of you something: Whatever you take offense
to is something which you hold yourself apart from. And generally you
hold yourself apart from it with a haughty, superior, self-righteous
attitude. What I want you to know is that the call for being the Christ
may well come from someone who is behaving toward you in an offensive
manner. And if your ego is going to go into hissy-fits over the
language, you are going to be totally sidetracked from the call for love
and your capacity to respond to it if your goddamned ego weren&rsquo;t
so important to you. [said in a feigned apologetic tone] Oh, I&rsquo;m
sorry. More bad language.

But you know what? This language isn&rsquo;t foreign to you, and you
know that that language right there wasn&rsquo;t really a curse on God.
It&rsquo;s a phrase that&rsquo;s used. And you know what? I used it well
there. I used it well, because there is absolutely no cause for respect
to be given to such immature, ungrounded spirituality. I hate to even
use the word &ldquo;spirituality&rdquo; relative to it.

When my Brothers, who were having their church service, have a problem
and in asking for help they curse or they use foul language, [it is]
because to them it simply expresses with strength the degree of their
hurting. You know what? If they listen and if they can hear me, they may
well hear me respond with some of the words they&rsquo;ve used. Why?
Because I know how to be appropriate in the moment and speak in language
that will be understood and interpreted as intimate, even though
it&rsquo;s not the language I usually use.

But it&rsquo;s time for those of you, who might have been offended by
what I said, to be willing to become a little more real, a little more
down-to-earth, a little bit less willing to be so easily offended.
Because in the moments in which you&rsquo;re indulging in offense, you
are incapable of being the presence of love for your Brother.

The question was put to Paul in the email: Ask yourself, &ldquo;What
came out of your very lips, is this something God would say?&rdquo; You
know what? Divine Love meets the need in the language of your present
perception. I am responding to you, I am inspiring you in the language
of your present perception. And the language of your present perception,
although it may not be filled with profanity, is filled with ignorance,
and many times is offensive&mdash;without your even being aware that
what you&rsquo;re expressing is insensitivity&mdash;distancing yourself
from another by conveying a superiority, but doing it anyway and hurting
your Brother.

So, Paul very perfectly expressed exactly what I was saying, exactly
what I was meaning&mdash;and not one word will be changed in the audio
tapes or the transcript. And again, for those who might have been
offended, I encourage you to approach me directly in your own mind, and
ask me&mdash;why it is that you&rsquo;re offended?&mdash;what is there
in you that took offense?

Now, some of you try to be pure as part of your advancement in your
spiritual growth.  But you know what? Purity isn&rsquo;t about the
language you use; it&rsquo;s about the motive behind the language you
use. Is the language you use arising out of your peace? Is the language
you&rsquo;re using arising out of singularity within you, minus all
reaction, minus all self-righteousness, minus all judgment? If it is,
then no matter what the words are, it carries the unction of God, it
carries the tone of God in ways that are specifically healing, even
though they may surprise you and those who hear them. Purity has to do
with the singularity or the unconflictedness of your mind when you are
using whatever words you&rsquo;re using. Spiritual purity has nothing to
do with manners&mdash;socially accepted spiritual manners. It has to do
with your being able to hit the mark in the moment, because you&rsquo;re
in touch with the need, and you feel/know exactly what will meet the
need.

Now I will tell you something: it will take a long time for you to hear
the Holy Spirit or me if you say, &ldquo;Holy Spirit, Jesus, please
speak to me, but promise you won&rsquo;t offend me.&rdquo; I promise you
that I will offend you. I will offend artificial boundaries, unreal
bondages, that you are committed to. And I will stretch your mind beyond
the limits of reasonability&mdash;according to your definitions of
reasonability&mdash;because it is not my task to leave any of you in the
midst of the status quo that you&rsquo;re suffering from. And so I will
always be offending the artificial boundaries that you are binding
yourself with. You had best listen for me, or the Holy Spirit,
unconditionally.

And when we surprise you, ask what we mean&mdash;how could we say that?
But let us speak first, before you object. Give us a chance to elaborate
before you interrupt with your shock. Your shock&mdash;&ldquo;Oh, tsk,
tsk, tsk.&rdquo; Like women from two hundred years ago suffering from
the vapors, &ldquo;Oh, tsk, tsk. The delicate sensibilities. Oh, you
have shocked me.&rdquo; Swoon.

You know, there are three steps: listen to me, listen to the Holy
Spirit, learn, and do.  And the &ldquo;do&rdquo; part means act in a way
consistent with what you heard and learned, whether it abides by the
mutually-agreed-upon definitions that everyone is operating under. If
indeed you are going to be an agent for change, if indeed you&rsquo;re
going to wake up, you are going to begin to behave in ways that are
inconsistent with the status quo; that violate and offend whatever the
current sensibilities are of the group you&rsquo;re in, with its
mutually-agreed-upon definitions and meanings that everyone must abide
by if there is going to be any kind of sane order to life.

If you&rsquo;re going to be willing to say, &ldquo;Thy Will be done, not
mine,&rdquo; you&rsquo;re going to have to be willing to set aside your
delicate sensibilities. And you&rsquo;re going to have to be willing to
embrace an experience of Christliness that puts you in touch with the
publicans and sinners; that puts you, so to speak, in the workplace
where the work can be done, and the changes can be effected. And the
contribution can be made where the contribution will be received. And
even then, there will be a little bit of dissonance.

You know, you are all good, without a façade of spirituality, without a
façade or mannerisms of purity, without language that because it has no
dirty words in it, denotes the level of advancement you&rsquo;re at.
This is all ego &ldquo;camel dung&rdquo;?  [some audience laughter] What
word should I use? [pause] Bullshit.  [pause] No one misunderstands the
meaning.

We&rsquo;ve just spoken in the last three weeks about the fact that you
can listen to a call for love without taking offense. Right? You
don&rsquo;t have to be offended by, you don&rsquo;t have to go into a
state of reaction because of a call for love. You can recognize that the
call for love is presented as an attack or bad behavior, but you
don&rsquo;t have to take offense. And because you don&rsquo;t take
offense, you&rsquo;re in a position to still be in touch with your
Brother, the one who made the call for love.

But I promise you, you move into a state of &ldquo;being offended&rdquo;
and go into your own internal state of reaction, and you&rsquo;ve lost
connection with your Brother and you&rsquo;ve lost the ability to relate
to him. And anything that follows will be you bouncing off of your own
reactions, and letting the response to your own reactions be directed
out there toward the Brother, who has nothing to do with what&rsquo;s
going on in you. And your Brother will recognize the lack of connection
and will stop listening to you, unless he cares to become offended too,
and join you. And the blind leading the blind, both will fall into the
ditch.

Being offended by what I&rsquo;ve said, is a bunch of nonsense that you
don&rsquo;t need to expend any energy on. Being offended by
anyone&rsquo;s behavior is an activity that is useless, and keeps you,
absolutely keeps you from being able to be a truly spiritual, relevant
agent for change, who is able to stay connected with his Brother using
whatever language is appropriate at the moment, so that the connection
isn&rsquo;t lost and the communication of love isn&rsquo;t interrupted,
and the reason for being together, the reason for the communion can
stand clear and be healing.

Nothing under the sun can offend me. And nothing under the sun should
offend any of you.

And if it does, get to work on it. Get to work on it in terms of, for
lack of better words, being willing to not distance yourself from it.
Let yourself be with it, so that you might find that whatever
&ldquo;it&rdquo; is, isn&rsquo;t what is offending you, but your own
reactions, your own definitions, your own mindset, which constitutes
your own bondage. Be with it until its offensiveness leaves, dissolves.

It doesn&rsquo;t mean that the language will be adopted by you so that
every other word is profane, but it means that when you hear it, you can
still be in your peace. And if a call comes for it to be appropriately
used, you can use it without reaction so that it does not carry with it
to the one you&rsquo;re using it with, anything other than the purest
meaning that you are conveying, which will never be hate or
self-righteousness, but will connote a realism&mdash;you speaking from
your Soul.

Oh, I know. &ldquo;But your Soul wouldn&rsquo;t use that word.&rdquo;
Well, I&rsquo;m telling you that your Soul would use that word with a
particular individual, in a particular circumstance. And because it is
used, it will have its healing effect. Now, you all have to be willing
to abandon what you&rsquo;re so goddamned confident about.

Now mind you, the suggestion was made that if I used the word I used
before, all support would be lost. And I haven&rsquo;t used it, have I?
Fuck. Just call me the Lenny Bruce of the new spiritual community. [some
audience laughter]

What does all this have to do with *A Course in Miracles*? No, the
question is, &ldquo;What does A Course in Miracles have to do with all
of this?&rdquo; *A Course in Miracles* has to do with you all engaging
in abandoning mutually-agreed definitions and concepts that you have
used to keep yourself unconscious of God, to keep yourself in a state of
mind in which you have sovereign independence over
yourselves&mdash;except that it&rsquo;s not really sovereign, because
you all have to cooperate with each other to be sure you&rsquo;re
abiding by these mutually-agreed-upon definitions, which, of course,
includes using certain language, associating with certain people, and
certainly not honoring the lowlife.

You know what? You walk around today and you see women with ducktails.
They&rsquo;re not called that anymore, but it&rsquo;s short hair, cut
down to the nape of the neck. How many of you realize that fifty years
ago when the first girls did that, they were the lowlife, and they were
looked down upon and sneered at? And now: &ldquo;Why, that&rsquo;s a
perky hairdo. Don&rsquo;t you look cute? Boy, I think I&rsquo;ll get one
of those. It just does wonders for you.&rdquo;

What does *A Course in Miracles* have to do with all of this?  It has to
do with your beginning to take a closer look at the use you&rsquo;re
putting your own mind to, and discovering the ways in which you are
using righteousness, or any other topic, as a means of keeping yourself
separate from your Brother&mdash;your Brothers and your Sisters. It has
to do with looking at your world with innocent eyes and innocent ears,
so that you might hear and see the meaning, without the meaning being
distorted by &ldquo;your taking offense,&rdquo; without your indulging
in righteous reaction.

Because whatever measuring stick you&rsquo;re using for your
righteousness, as long as it is holding you separate from and above
another, it&rsquo;s pure ego shit. Or shall I say, it&rsquo;s pure ego
illusion? Well, it&rsquo;s far less effective to say &ldquo;pure ego
illusion,&rdquo; because, &ldquo;illusion,&rdquo; yeah, that&rsquo;s a
word you use and no big deal. But I say &ldquo;pure ego shit,&rdquo; and
you pay attention. And you know that it&rsquo;s something more than just
&ldquo;a casual illusion.&rdquo; If it&rsquo;s &ldquo;pure ego
shit,&rdquo; you know ya better clean it up. You know something needs to
be done about it.

&ldquo;But &lsquo;pure ego illusion,&rsquo; yeah, well, who knows what
that really means? And so for the time being, I&rsquo;ll just use the
word &lsquo;pure ego illusion&rsquo; and I won&rsquo;t have to do
anything about it. I won&rsquo;t have to &hellip; see I&rsquo;ve
listened, but I don&rsquo;t have to learn. And if I don&rsquo;t have to
learn, then I don&rsquo;t have to do. And if I don&rsquo;t have to do,
well, nobody can be upset with me. And I won&rsquo;t have to face
whatever fulfillment really means. [laughing] I won&rsquo;t have to face
whatever waking up means. I love the idea of wakening. I love the idea
of awakening, but don&rsquo;t make me do it yet. Okay? Because I
don&rsquo;t know what it will involve, and I don&rsquo;t know what it
will turn me into. And so I would just as soon &lsquo;think about&rsquo;
bliss. Oh, yes, I know.&rdquo; You don&rsquo;t know anything. But you
say, &ldquo;I know.  It will mean eternal bliss. I&rsquo;ll think about
that for a while. But don&rsquo;t rush me on the learning part where I
actually am different because I&rsquo;ve learned. And don&rsquo;t make
me move on to the next step of doing, where I have to behave consistent
with what I&rsquo;ve learned. Because I know that when I do that,
it&rsquo;s going to make waves. It&rsquo;s going to offend
someone&rsquo;s sensibilities.&rdquo; That&rsquo;s what this book is
about!

So we talked a couple of weeks ago about not taking offense, not having
to take offense when a call for love, that is a form of ugliness,
presents itself. And then I used a simple word. And everybody&mdash;not
everybody&mdash;but many took offense. And no &hellip; no bells went off
in their head that said, &ldquo;Oh, this is what Raj was talking about.
This is what the Course was talking about. A real experiential thing.
Something that I really need to take a look at because obviously this is
what the Course was saying I don&rsquo;t need to do.&rdquo; You see?

Ah, you listened and you heard, and now if the bells went off, or even
if they didn&rsquo;t go off, but if they&rsquo;re go off tonight,
you&rsquo;re in a position of learning. You&rsquo;re in a position of
being able to make a shift, a real change, so that the next time you
hear the word &ldquo;fuck,&rdquo; it will not bother you, because you
have something better to do than to be in a feminine&mdash;I apologize
to the women&mdash;but it&rsquo;s been characterized as a weak, feminine
characteristic&mdash;which isn&rsquo;t true about women. And men express
it equally, except they don&rsquo;t swoon or faint. They say,
&ldquo;This is unacceptable! This &hellip; this is unacceptable!&rdquo;
You see? And they try to bring all their masculinity into it. They try
to bring the wholeness of the meaning of the word &ldquo;no&rdquo; into
it&mdash;which is exactly, and only, the thing I was setting the example
for when I used the words two weeks ago. But these men, instead of
swooning, try to bring the force of their human masculinity into
expression to effect a change. The woman swoons and she&rsquo;s out of
it. She changed everything by leaving the scene. But the man tries to
change everything by being authoritative from an unjoined place. Both of
them are responding, the women and the men are responding from
&ldquo;their offendedness,&rdquo; not from their Being.

Now it&rsquo;s absolutely useless for us to go through this book and
bask in the beauty of the words, and think that somehow we&rsquo;re on
the spiritual beam. Because until change is effected in each of you, and
learning actually occurs, nothing is happening and there&rsquo;s not the
slightest presence of spirituality, real spirituality to what&rsquo;s
going on. Real spirituality occurs when you can sit down with a group of
bikers who are using foul language, and not being offended by it, and
actually perhaps being able to grasp the meaninglessness of their use of
the words, or the meaning that they&rsquo;re giving to it that is
entirely different from what your educated mind has determined those
words mean. And if you can be with them and respond to them with
understanding, because you&rsquo;re connected with them without
judgment, communication can occur and you can be an agent for change.

You know what? When you&rsquo;re offended by something, the one who has
offended you knows they own you.  They&rsquo;ve gotcha. They know
they&rsquo;re in control, and they know you&rsquo;re out of control.

You&rsquo;re walking down the street.  You&rsquo;re dressed nicely;
decently at least. Some raunchy-looking guy is leaning against the lamp
post. He says, &ldquo;Hey, motherfucker, get over here!&rdquo; And of
course, you&mdash;all clean and spiffy and pure&mdash;cringe. You
immediately are filled with fear. You immediately feel that you&rsquo;re
being confronted with [or] by something that you&rsquo;re unequal to.
And the fellow at the post knows he has the power. But if when he said
that, you said back to him, &ldquo;Hey, motherfucker, smile when you say
that!&rdquo; [some audience laughter] What do you think?

Your ability to say those words may save your life one of these days.
But it won&rsquo;t save your life, if you&rsquo;re offended by it. Do
you see what I&rsquo;m saying? Are you learning something tonight?

Are you trying to tell me that God, that the Holy Spirit, that divine
Intelligence, is not&mdash;when you lean into it&mdash;going to prepare
you and facilitate the way for you to be utterly appropriate in any
given moment? How do you think you&rsquo;re going to cast out devils if
you don&rsquo;t cast them out, if you don&rsquo;t *dismiss* them?

[said in a wimpy voice] &ldquo;Pretty please, Satan, would you get
behind me?&rdquo;

You don&rsquo;t *ask* the devil to get behind you. You don&rsquo;t *ask*
an illusion to depart. *You dismiss it*, as has been said, with the
abiding conviction that it is illegitimate. In other words, having no
capacity to stand in its own right and object to your dismissal.

&ldquo;Well, I didn&rsquo;t really know that the Course meant that I
would have to change the way I behave.  Oh, I didn&rsquo;t really know
that the Course, what the Course teaches meant that I would have to
change.&rdquo;

What the *Course* means to convey to you is that your experience is
reflecting exactly what your current beliefs are, and that if you want
your experience to change, you&rsquo;ve got to change your beliefs,
you&rsquo;ve got to change your mutually-agreed-upon definitions, and
you&rsquo;ve got to change the criteria by which you are offended, among
other things. But we&rsquo;re not just talking about shifting from these
definitions to some new definitions you make up. We&rsquo;re talking
about shifting from definitions that you have been using as a shield
between you and what Reality is so that you&rsquo;re not experiencing
Reality for what it is; we&rsquo;re talking about abandoning the
definitions so that you&rsquo;re in an unshielded, intimate relationship
with What Everything Really Is.

Now I&rsquo;m speaking very definitely tonight, aren&rsquo;t I? Am I
hollering? No. Am I angry? No. But you know what?  When you know the
Truth, you can speak it clearly, and you can speak it distinctly, and
you can speak it without apology. And you can speak it without guilt.
And you can be the clarity that transforms without manipulating, without
attempting to control everything around you.

And the clarity with which you speak might be heard by another as a
clarity they would only ever allow to come out of their mouth when they
were upset. And so the assumption is that when someone is speaking with
clarity, they must be upset. And it&rsquo;s not true.

Now if anyone would like me to go back to mouthing the pretty words in A
Course in Miracles, tough shit. Go somewhere else. Take your support
somewhere else. Because you know what? What you&rsquo;re interested in
supporting is not the Truth. What you&rsquo;re interested in supporting
is your own ego. What you&rsquo;re interested in supporting is something
that at least some group of people recognizes to be a &ldquo;holy&rdquo;
thing.  And because you all agree that it&rsquo;s a &ldquo;holy&rdquo;
thing, and you all agree to have reverence for it, you&rsquo;re actually
accomplishing something; you&rsquo;re actually being something. But
you&rsquo;re not. You&rsquo;re just hovering in pink clouds. And sure as
hell, some motherfucker&rsquo;s gonna come and knock you out of those
clouds. And I&rsquo;m willing to be that motherfucker, because I love
you. And because if you don&rsquo;t do it, none of this means shit!

Am I angry? No. But I can be straight with you. I can even be gay with
you.  But I&rsquo;ll tell you something. I&rsquo;m not here to cater to
your egos. I&rsquo;m here to cater to the Father. I&rsquo;m here to
cater to the Truth. And I&rsquo;m here to express it in whatever way
gets you out of your ivory towers, and off of your marble pedestals,
into a practical grounded spirituality, a practical grounded
connectedness with where you are, so that as you abandon your being
offended by where you are, What It Really Is can begin to register with
you, because your way of looking at things has changed.

Now, I&rsquo;m going to stop now. I have been talking pure *Course in
Miracles* tonight. It doesn&rsquo;t all have to be in the words that
we&rsquo;ve been reading. And if the words that we&rsquo;ve been reading
do not lead you to this kind of practical groundedness, the book
isn&rsquo;t worth a hill of beans. Is &ldquo;beans&rdquo; a bad word?
Somewhere it probably is.

Every week when we finish, I say I love you. Tonight I&rsquo;m going to
say I love you enough not to allow any of you to continue in a fanciful
concept of what the Christ is, and how the Christ behaves, and how the
Christ functions.

I have conveyed to you that you never have to worry that you could do
anything that would offend me. And that however you approach
me&mdash;angry, sad, grief stricken, pleasantly,
offensively&mdash;it&rsquo;s not going to get in the way of my being
with you, and my being appropriate with you, and my conveying to you
your Integrity&mdash;whether you&rsquo;ve been expressing it well or
not&mdash;so that your Integrity might be confirmed to you and allow you
to abandon the grotesque or obtuse way in which you&rsquo;ve been
expressing the divine one that you are; so that you know there&rsquo;s a
way out; so that you know that there is no way you can be trapped.  And

I encourage everyone who has the tendency to be easily offended to take
a look at this habit, like a garment that you&rsquo;re wrapped up in, so
that you might take it off, because it isn&rsquo;t what you thought it
was, and it isn&rsquo;t what you want. What you want is to be able to be
unoffendedly real and appropriate in any given moment, under any given
circumstance, so that the clarity of the excellence of you can find
expression no matter what the words, and hit their mark in a way that
confirms to your Brother or Sister that he or she has Integrity, and
that he or she is not stuck.

[Raj speaking to each person] I love you &hellip; and I love you
&hellip; and I love you &hellip; and I love you &hellip; and I love you
&hellip; and I love you &hellip; and I love you, motherfucker &hellip;
and I love you &hellip; and I love you.

And I look forward to being with you next week. And you know what? I
trust that you&rsquo;ll be back, because I know you can learn. And I
know learning has occurred.

Okay.

