---
title: Jan 24, 2009
ref: "T15.3 Littleness versus Magnitude"
alink: "/acim/text/15/chap1503/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

So, we&rsquo;ve been talking about the frustration of Awakening.

How many of you found that your attempts to mentor or to be
philanthropic this past week was full of unhindered success, we&rsquo;ll
say? And how many of you found that &hellip; well, I&rsquo;m not going
to ask how many of you found that your attempts to give were received, I
want to ask how many of you found that in the willingness to, with some
persistence, be philanthropic or to care enough about your brother to be
aware of his or her needs&mdash;so that you would be able to
mentor&mdash;and found that you, yourself, were grabbing frantically for
your right to be angry, your right to be upset, your right not to have
to let go of engaging in judgment?

Now, this might not have happened with a direct connection in your mind
between your intent to give, your intent to mentor, and the anger you
felt or the right to be peeved, but I&rsquo;m going to ask you to take a
look at it because it&rsquo;s a simple fact that this experience is
pointing out to you &hellip; the simple fact is, that if part of
you&mdash;the wise part of you, the sane part of you&mdash;chooses for
sanity, chooses to engage in the two-step to find out what constitutes
being Love, as I said last week, your ego habit is going to raise
it&rsquo;s head and, we&rsquo;ll say, demand equal time. It is going to
say, &ldquo;Be angry about something &hellip; be angry about life
&hellip; be angry about the situation &hellip; be angry about your body
&hellip; be angry about the fact that considering all of the years of
effort you&rsquo;ve put into Awakening, you still seem to be getting
old, or you still seem to have caught a cold.&rdquo; You see.

How many of you have become angry and become totally distracted from a
conscious intent to be able to go to bed at the end of the day and ask,
&ldquo;Who, in my experience today, has felt blessed by our
encounter?&rdquo;

How many of you, in the face of many good things happening in the world,
have suddenly felt a right to be depressed, upset, frustrated, and
willing to deny everything&mdash;all of the good that you have engaged
in, all of the study, all of the practicing of truth?

Be aware that this is a dynamic which will come up as you&mdash;the sane
part of you&mdash;makes a decision within yourself to abandon the right
to be upset because it&rsquo;s your intent to let yourself be the
presence of Love, whatever that turns out to be as you yield to the
Father and say, &ldquo;Thy Will be done. Share with me Your Perspective
so that as I look at my brother or sister or myself, I might see what is
true, so that all of the feelings associated with the knowledge of truth
might accompany my every action, my every intonation, my every behavior
as I am present in and active in the world.&rdquo; You see?

Does this mean it&rsquo;s going to be a struggle? I mean after all
&hellip; I would imagine that most of you have felt like, if you have a
spiritual intent, if you have an intent that is holy, for lack of better
words, one that is in harmony with the Father&rsquo;s Will, that the red
carpet will unroll in front of you &hellip; the way will be made easy
&hellip; and you will sort of slide into the Kingdom of Heaven, like a
home-run.

Well, it&rsquo;s not that way. And it&rsquo;s not that way because of
your well-established habits. For example: Your feeling of a right to be
able to be frustrated, your right to engage in judgment, your right to
determine levels and whether you&rsquo;re on a higher or lower level
than someone else. And depending upon where you are, certain behaviors
are appropriate. If you&rsquo;re on a higher level, you can lord it over
the other one. If you are on a lower level, you can bitch at the one on
the higher level, you can argue to either whittle him down or to lift
yourself up to become equal.

The point is, that these life-style habits which could almost be called,
&ldquo;being-habits,&rdquo; because you&rsquo;ve used them for so long
and you&rsquo;re not aware that they were something that you made up and
applied and then got used to, to the point where it seemed second nature
to you, and not something that you learned and put on like a garment and
used to identify yourself.

So it&rsquo;s going to take some work. It&rsquo;s going to take some
diligence. And that&rsquo;s what I&rsquo;ve been talking about for the
last couple of weeks.

Now, if during this past week, when you knew something to do, like have
the intent to be able to arrive at the end of your day and ask,
&ldquo;Who have I encountered today that feels blessed by our
encounter?&rdquo; If you have been doing that this week and run into
difficulties, either coming from external sources, or coming from your
own deep-seated right to be judgmental, don&rsquo;t stop.

Continue this next week. Acknowledge that it&rsquo;s going to take
diligence on your part. Acknowledge that it&rsquo;s going to require of
you that you make a choice and keep returning to your choice, your
choice being: To function out from peace rather than to function out
from reaction. And then, as you would if you were meditating and saying
a mantra, when you find that you&rsquo;ve stopped saying the
mantra&mdash;when you discover it&mdash;bring yourself back to the
mantra. When you discover that you&rsquo;ve opted for the right to be
upset for whatever reason, come back to your choice for your peace, come
back to your intent to be in your encounter with your brother with a
conscious request of the Father to be filled by His Perspective about
your brother so that It might infill you and allow you, from your heart,
from your soul, to extend It to your brother with joy, as Love.

Don&rsquo;t become discouraged and don&rsquo;t take your self-satisfied
frustration and judgment &hellip; don&rsquo;t let it govern you.
Don&rsquo;t let it be the rule by which you measure what it&rsquo;s
worth to be doing &hellip; what is worthwhile to be doing. Recognize it.
Recognize that it&rsquo;s inconsistent with your real purpose, which is
to come out from your peace with the Father&rsquo;s Perspective and
return your attention there, over and over and over and over and over
and over again! For how long? Until you don&rsquo;t slip out of it
anymore. It&rsquo;s that simple. Until you&rsquo;ve come back into your
right Mind. Until your sanity, which never ever really left you, reigns
permanently over you.

Let&rsquo;s go into the book.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is a deep responsibility you owe yourself, and one which you must
learn to remember all the time. [^1]
</div>

You&rsquo;ll forget &hellip; and you&rsquo;ll forget &hellip; and
you&rsquo;ll forget &hellip; and you&rsquo;ll forget &hellip; and
you&rsquo;ll remember &hellip; and you&rsquo;ll forget &hellip; and
you&rsquo;ll remember &hellip; and you&rsquo;ll forget &hellip; and
you&rsquo;ll remember. But &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is a deep responsibility you owe yourself, and one which you must
learn to remember &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and not forget &hellip; and remember &hellip; and not forget
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; to remember all the time. The lesson will seem hard at first,
but you will learn to love it when you realize that it is true, and
constitutes a tribute to your power.
</div>

The lesson will seem hard at first. Why? Because it&rsquo;s not your
habit anymore. And you are going to have to break the habit! And like
giving up smoking or any other addiction, giving up your addiction to
judgment, giving up your addiction to operating out of your peace, will
take work. It &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; will seem hard at first, but you will learn to love it when you
realize that it is true, and constitutes a tribute to your power.
</div>

&hellip; a tribute to your integrity &hellip; a tribute to your strength
&hellip; your God-given integrity is your strength. The integrity that
is built into you is your strength. The integrity of you that&rsquo;s
built into you that you have to do nothing to gain because it&rsquo;s
already there.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; when you realize that it is true, and constitutes a tribute to
your power.
</div>

&hellip; you will learn to love it and you won&rsquo;t mind being
persistent because you will be being persistent on behalf of all
that&rsquo;s real about you, all that is valuable about you, all about
you that constitutes the absence of the experience of sin, sickness and
death.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You who have sought and found littleness, remember this: Every decision
which you make stems from what you think you ARE, and represents the
value that you PUT upon yourself.
</div>

Um-m &hellip; we talked last week about, do you feel like a
philanthropist or do you feel like someone who has not what it takes to
share meaningfully, and therefore, you couldn&rsquo;t possibly be a
philanthropist? That&rsquo;s the definition you&rsquo;re giving
yourself. And if you are feeling lack and an inability to make a gift of
significance, you are believing a story that has been made up, either by
someone else who has taught it to you or through your own imagination.
But it&rsquo;s not the truth.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You who have sought and found littleness&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; found it, took hold of it, embodied it, incorporated it into
your very presence. Now why would you incorporate it into your very
presence? Why would you do that with littleness? Because there&rsquo;s
benefit to littleness. If you are little enough, you can get on the
social welfare rolls and things will be given to you and there&rsquo;s a
payoff. In littleness, you can get benefits from friends who care about
you and believe that your littleness is as true as you believe it is,
but don&rsquo;t want you to suffer, and so they&rsquo;re thoughtful
&hellip; you see &hellip; to help you not suffer from your littleness
anymore than is necessary.

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You who have sought and found littleness&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and incorporated it into your being &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; remember this: Every decision which you make stems from what
you think you ARE, and represents the value that you PUT upon yourself.
Believe the little can content you, and by limiting yourself, you will
not be satisfied.
</div>

Now here&rsquo;s where, &ldquo;The way things work&rdquo; come into
play: You can choose for littleness, thinking that by doing that and
creating it as a result of your authority, that you will be able to find
an experience of satisfaction. But that&rsquo;s like trying to plant an
apple-seed and expect to get a pear from the tree that grows.
That&rsquo;s not the way things work. You opt for littleness and you
exercise it with all of your authority and might and I&rsquo;m sorry,
because of the way things work, you will not find satisfaction from
littleness because you are not God and you&rsquo;re not making up the
rules no matter how diligently and energetically you try.

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Believe the little can content you, and by limiting yourself, you will
not be satisfied. For your function is NOT little, and it is only by
finding your function and fulfilling it that you can escape from
littleness.
</div>

&hellip; which means, that you can escape from that which isn&rsquo;t
fulfilling.

Now, something that isn&rsquo;t mentioned here, but I will bring out,
is, that regardless of how little you think you are, regardless of how
inconsequential you think you are, and no matter how much you think you
must do outrageous things in order to overcome your littleness, your
embodiment of littleness is generated, activated, brought forth with all
of the power of the Christ that you Are.

What that means is, that when the Christ that you Are, attempts to do
something that is inconsistent with the Christ that you Are, the
experience you are going to have will be unavoidably uncomfortable. It
will unavoidably hurt. And the more power you bring to bear upon your
effort, the more pain you will experience as you attempt to do the
impossible. Remember that.

Remember, the insanity of being the ultimate&mdash;the
Christ&mdash;engaged in trying to demonstrate that you are not the
Christ, that you are little, that you are inconsequential, that you are
not whole. It is so ridiculous! And although it hurts greatly to engage
in doing it, the hurt is not damaging. That is important. The hurt is
not damaging. Because the moment you stop the endeavor, the pain will
lesson. And the moment you cease the endeavor entirely, the pain, the
suffering will be entirely gone, because all the pain was, was the
knowing, the innate divine Knowing of your Being pointing out to you
that you are doing something silly, that you&rsquo;re doing something
unreasonable, that you are doing something that amounts to nothing. But
as long as you are believing that it amounts to something, you must be
faced with a call for correction. It&rsquo;s that simple. The moment the
call for correction is heeded, the suffering stops, because the Christ
that you Are begins to behave like the Christ that you Are.

Now, this brings us back to the same issue. How is it that you&rsquo;re
going to start behaving like the Christ that you Are? Through diligence.
Through the intent to no longer engage in that which can&rsquo;t be
accomplished. And that which can&rsquo;t be accomplished is, you acting
as an independent authority&mdash;an orphan as we&rsquo;ve spoke of it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; your function is NOT little, and it is only by finding your
function and fulfilling it that you can escape from littleness.
</div>

Now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is no doubt about what your function is, for the Holy Spirit KNOWS
what it is.
</div>

If the Holy Spirit knows what it is, and the Holy Spirit is nothing more
than your right Mind, then that which is the essentialness of you knows
what it is, and therefore, you should be being consciously aware of what
it is. It&rsquo;s not only your Birthright to be aware of it, it is to
be the ongoing ever-present state of Mind you are experiencing right
now, today, without becoming more than you presently are.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is no doubt about what your function is, for the Holy Spirit KNOWS
what it is. There is no doubt about its &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what? Tininess? Littleness? No.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is no doubt about its magnitude, for it reaches you through Him
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit, that which is nothing more than your right
Mind &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; FROM Magnitude.
</div>

&hellip; with a capital &ldquo;M,&rdquo; meaning: Magnitude
Itself&mdash;God!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You do not have to strive for it, because you HAVE it. All your striving
must be directed AGAINST littleness&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you see, that&rsquo;s where the attention needs to be. Not on
demonstrating your littleness, but invalidating your littleness. Being
conscious enough as you go through your day to notice when you&rsquo;re
beginning to behave, little.

How can you notice when you&rsquo;re doing that? Because whenever
you&rsquo;re doing that, you&rsquo;re uncomfortable! Now you may say
you&rsquo;re getting satisfaction out of being angry at your brother,
but what about your blood pressure? What about your body while
you&rsquo;re doing it&mdash;getting all this irate satisfaction out of
your system &hellip; why your heart&rsquo;s racing &hellip; and any
doctor will tell you that it&rsquo;s not healthy for you. It&rsquo;s
called, S-T-R-E-S-S!

Oh, but you don&rsquo;t mind, you know &hellip;&ldquo;Forget about that,
it&rsquo;s not hurting me a bit! I tell ya, I&rsquo;m so pissed off with
that guy &hellip; and boy the more I let myself feel it, and the more I
rail at him, the better I feel!&rdquo;

[chuckle] But you don&rsquo;t. And that&rsquo;s because you&rsquo;re
opting for littleness. Think about it for a moment: Magnitude is,
I&rsquo;m going to say, the foundation and superstructure of your Being.
The entirety of your Being is Magnitude. If Magnitude is the nature and
state of your Being, what on earth could justify your being upset with
your brother? What could your brother take away from Magnitude that
can&rsquo;t be taken away from you? What could he have done that would
have caused you to be less than Magnitude? Nothing. You see?

You might not have thought about the fact that if you were willing to
consider yourself to be a philanthropist, you would naturally feel
invulnerable. Because one who has much to give and always has much to
give can&rsquo;t be put in a position of not having enough to give but
being demanded of. And so your way of being is going to be one without
fear.

Another&rsquo;s lack cannot be dangerous to you. And your magnitude felt
is something that you will not be able to avoid extending to your
brother, not just as things given, but as an attitude for him to be
willing to embrace, because he sees someone else embracing it and sees
someone else being blessed by it and sees it, therefore, as a
possibility for himself or herself.

So let&rsquo;s go back again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is no doubt about what your function is, for the Holy Spirit KNOWS
what it is. There is no doubt about its magnitude, for it reaches you
through Him FROM &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; capital &ldquo;M&rdquo;&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; Magnitude. You do not have to strive for it, because you HAVE
it. All your striving &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; here&rsquo;s the key:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
All your striving must be directed AGAINST littleness, for it DOES
require vigilance to protect your magnitude in this world.

[Repeats] &hellip; it DOES require vigilance to protect your magnitude
in this world.
</div>

The reason it takes diligence, first of all, is because it&rsquo;s not
your habit to be constantly aware of your magnitude. And so, your habits
of littleness will creep in and fight against, or drag you down as
you&rsquo;re holding on to the awareness of your magnitude. Not only
that, your brothers and sisters who are not feeling magnitude press
against you, treating you as though you have no magnitude just as they
don&rsquo;t, and elicit from you &hellip; what? &hellip; anger,
frustration&mdash;all those things that identify littleness, the
practice of littleness in you. Not only that, many of your brothers and
sisters elicit from you these reactions because you have elicited
negative reactions from them first and they&rsquo;re paying you back.

And so, your actions have repercussions that come back to you as you are
daring to shift gears and embrace magnitude instead of littleness, and
to do the two-step instead of responding with a knee-jerk reaction
without any inquiry as to what is wise, what is true here, so that you
and your fellowman might be blessed by the truth that will come through
you. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
All your striving must be directed AGAINST littleness, for it DOES
require vigilance to protect your magnitude in this world.
</div>

I will say this: As your practice of vigilance and your awareness of the
magnitude of you, being the truth about you, established since Creation
itself, as that fills more of your awareness than it does at this
moment, it becomes easier&mdash;the vigilance becomes
easier&mdash;because it becomes worth it to you. And you always do put
your energy behind things that feel worthwhile to you. But the diligence
must be brought into play to bring you to that point where what is true
about you feels true about you and becomes something worth something to
you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To hold your magnitude in perfect awareness in a world of littleness is
a task the little cannot undertake.
</div>

What does that mean? That means that the moment any of you take on the
task of abandoning littleness, you&rsquo;ve made a shift. Something in
you is not feeling littleness as strongly or with as great commitment,
because the little can&rsquo;t abandon littleness.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To hold your magnitude in perfect awareness in a world of littleness is
a task the little cannot undertake. Yet it is asked of you&hellip;
</div>

Now don&rsquo;t get pissed off because you&rsquo;re being asked to do
something impossible. Take it as a compliment. That you&rsquo;re being
asked to do it, means that you must be able to do it and therefore, you
must not be &ldquo;the little.&rdquo; You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; it is asked of you, in tribute to your magnitude and NOT your
littleness. Nor is it asked of you alone.
</div>

This is really important to remember, because until you&rsquo;re willing
to actually start Home, so-to-speak, to abandon littleness, you are
alone, because you&rsquo;re trying to figure out everything yourself,
you&rsquo;re trying to do everything yourself, you&rsquo;re trying to
lift yourself up by your own bootstraps so that you can take full
credit. And you believe that that&rsquo;s the way life is set up,
that&rsquo;s the way God made it and, therefore, you must be able to
accomplish it. And you are alone and it&rsquo;s not your Birthright to
be alone.

To start Home involves your reaching outside yourself in one way or
another including something else that you&rsquo;re willing to lean into
or lean upon. And it happens when you say, &ldquo;Help!&rdquo; It
happens when you reach out to the Father, God, the Creator, the Builder
of the Universe, however you want to conceive it, whatever you want to
call it. But you&rsquo;ve got to break the isolation.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To hold your magnitude in perfect awareness in a world of littleness is
a task the little cannot undertake. Yet it is asked of you, in tribute
to your magnitude and NOT your littleness. Nor is it asked of you alone.
</div>

I have often told people, that the moment they turn their attention
toward their Guide&mdash;once they know they have one&mdash;and they
reach out to their Guide, they may know that their Guide has been
waiting &hellip; waiting patiently for this moment. And the moment you
reach out to connect with your Guide, your Guide is reaching out to
connect with you. And so, you&rsquo;re not doing it all by yourself.
You&rsquo;re no longer doing it alone. And it&rsquo;s important to know
this.

To be alone is hell. To be alone is a suffering experience. Now
it&rsquo;s not asked of you to do this alone. The power of God will
support every effort you make on behalf of his dear Son, meaning you and
meaning your brother&mdash;if it&rsquo;s done on behalf of your
brother&mdash;but right now it&rsquo;s you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The power of God will support every effort you make on behalf of His
dear Son.
</div>

&hellip; or Daughter.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Search for the little, and you deny yourself His power.
</div>

Now, understand this:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God is not willing that His Son be content with less than everything.
</div>

Now, that can be taken both ways:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God is not willing that His Son be content &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; nor is God willing as an act of will for you to be content. You
see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God is not willing that His Son be content with less than everything.
For He is not content without His Son, and His Son cannot be content
with less than His Father has given him.
</div>

We&rsquo;re talking about Magnitude as opposed to littleness.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
We asked you once before, "Would you be hostage to the ego or host to
God?" Let this question be asked you by the Holy Spirit in you every
time you make a decision. For every decision you make DOES answer this,
and invites sorrow or joy accordingly.
</div>

Every time you make a decision &hellip; Paul, is deciding to have a
drink of water. Did he do it himself? . . all by himself? . . without
any consciousness of a connection with the Father? Was that glass a
material glass? Was it holding a physical substance called water
&hellip; H2O? . . or, were he and the glass and the water all divine
manifestations of the Presence of God being together in a cooperative
and involved way, being in relationship with each other in which the joy
and beauty of spiritual communion was occurring?

Was he hostage to the ego or host to God? No matter what you&rsquo;re
doing, are you hostage to the ego or host to God? Are you opting for
littleness or are you opting for magnitude? Are you participating in
what will facilitate the impulsion of your conscious awareness out of
all of the meanings of littleness into the conscious experience of
Atonement, the conscious experience of coming back into your Sanity,
your right Mind&mdash;in which what everything really Is registers with
you and you&rsquo;re not in the slightest inclined to misperceive it,
nor is there any desire to misperceive it?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; every decision you make DOES answer this&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; whether or not you would be hostage to the ego or host to God
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and invites sorrow or joy accordingly.
</div>

Magnitude is an interesting word. It&rsquo;s something that I know you
all can contemplate. And in the contemplation of it, it&rsquo;s like
magnitude is like the word &ldquo;grand&rdquo;&hellip; a grand idea
&hellip; a grand meaning. But what does it mean &hellip; grand? What
does magnitude mean? Well, when God gave Himself to you in your
Creation, He established you as host to Him forever. That&rsquo;s what
magnitude means.

I&rsquo;ve said over and over, that God is being all there is right
where you are. Right where you are and what is called you, is God being
God. That&rsquo;s magnitude.

Now, you want the experience of magnitude. You want the experience of
God&rsquo;s Mind, so-to-speak. You want to be in-filled with the Spirit
of God, the motivation of God. And I&rsquo;m here to tell you that you
are, that, that&rsquo;s in you at every moment. But you opt for
littleness by arguing for the right to make judgments, for the right to
be frustrated, for the right to be pissed off, for the right to think
all by yourself and thus loose the experience of communion and
brotherhood that constitutes the full conscious experience of Being,
which I can only talk about, but I can invite you to desire to have the
experience of and to invite you to try to lean into the meaning of, by
saying, &ldquo;Father, reveal to me the experience. I will shut up, and
I will let You in.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When God gave Himself to you in your creation&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and that&rsquo;s the only way you could have been created,
because when God creates something all He can do is pour Himself into
what He&rsquo;s doing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When God gave Himself to you in your creation, He established you as
host to Him forever. He has not left you, and you have not left Him. All
your attempts to deny His magnitude, and make His Son &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; hostage to the ego, cannot make little whom God has joined with
Him.
</div>

It&rsquo;s this sense of isolation, it&rsquo;s this sense of
separateness through which you look at the world and see separateness,
that denies you the experience of your magnitude and denies you your
experience of your Father&rsquo;s Mind, which is yours, which is, as
long as you are opting for an ego frame of reference, is held in trust,
as what we&rsquo;ve referred to as the Holy Spirit&mdash;hasn&rsquo;t
gone anywhere hasn&rsquo;t left you, but you&rsquo;re just not opting
for it, which would be magnitude&mdash;because it teaches you from
magnitude itself.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Every decision you make is for Heaven or for hell&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; it&rsquo;s for Reality or for unreality&mdash;every decision
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and will bring you awareness of what you decided FOR.
</div>

So this week, decide for magnitude. Stop deciding for littleness. And
when I say, &ldquo;Stop deciding for littleness,&rdquo; I mean stop
opting for the right to become angry with yourself for not having solved
the problem of life. Stop being angry with your spiritual teachers
because you haven&rsquo;t learned what they were teaching yet and
there&rsquo;s not enough time left, according to the scenario
you&rsquo;re making up, the story you&rsquo;re weaving right now. Stop
opting for littleness. Stop opting for hate. Stop opting for
self-righteousness or just plain old righteousness. Stop opting for the
right to have a thought about your brother or your sister that you
enacted or created without bothering to join with the Father to ask the
Father or your right Mind for the truth about your brother. You see?

Thinking for yourself, by yourself, is opting for littleness.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit can hold your magnitude, clean of all littleness,
clearly and in perfect safety in your minds, untouched by every little
gift the world of littleness would offer you. But for this, you cannot
side AGAINST Him in what He wills for you.
</div>

And here&rsquo;s where we&rsquo;re going to end for tonight.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Decide for God through Him.
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit, your right Mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Decide for God through Him.
</div>

This is where the discipline comes into play.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For littleness, and the belief that you can be content with littleness,
are the decisions you have made about yourself. The power and the glory
that lie in you from God are for all who, like you, perceive themselves
as little, and have deceived themselves into believing that littleness
can be blown up by them into a sense of magnitude that can content them.
</div>

Copy this paragraph down. Put it on your refrigerator. Put it where you
can see, so that you can remind yourself with a somewhat fleshed out
meaning of what opting for magnitude is, as opposed to opting for
littleness, so that you can more easily make the decision not to opt for
littleness.

And mind you, again, the best way to monitor yourself as to whether
you&rsquo;re opting for littleness is if you are choosing to think for
yourself &hellip; if your heart is racing because you are riled up and
you&rsquo;re full of self-righteousness, it could be racing because you
are succeeding at a benefit that has taken advantage of your brother and
you are so happy that he&rsquo;s at a loss because he screwed you and
man he deserves it. Well, there&rsquo;s your heart again, beating
&hellip; beating &hellip; beating. Healthy &hellip; healthy &hellip;
healthy? No.

And mind you, I&rsquo;m not suggesting here that your body governs you.
I&rsquo;m not suggesting that you should become afraid of your body. But
I&rsquo;m saying, take a look at what your thoughts of littleness are
doing. And what they are doing is not good &hellip; does not benefit you
&hellip; does not leave you refreshed &hellip; does not leave you
feeling more whole than before.

Be sensible. Pay attention to these things so that, although you think
you&rsquo;re gloating with great satisfaction and joy, you&rsquo;re
really suffering. You&rsquo;re really engaged in something that is
giving you a hit like a drug, not wholeness like your Being.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Neither give littleness, nor accept it.
</div>

And I&rsquo;m going to add: But find a way this week to
philanthropically give magnitude and accept magnitude, so that at the
end of the day, every day when you go to bed you can ask, &ldquo;Who did
I have encountered during the day felt magnitude as a result of our
encounter?&rdquo;

Do you know how to extend the experience of magnitude to a brother? No,
you don&rsquo;t. And so, you&rsquo;re going to have to stand there on
the precipice &hellip; you&rsquo;re going to have to stand there on the
threshold of the unknown, with an intent to give something to your
brother that you&rsquo;ve never given. [Chuckling] And it&rsquo;s quite
possible that the fact that you never ever gave it to your brother
before is the reason you&rsquo;re not Awake and the reason your brother
isn&rsquo;t Awake. And doing it may well be, your Waking up and your
brother&rsquo;s Waking up and the dominos falling everywhere!

Now, someone I hear saying, &ldquo;Well, he&rsquo;s playing it safe,
isn&rsquo;t he? He says maybe you&rsquo;ll wake up and maybe your
brother will wake up.&rdquo;

I promise you that if you do it, if you do it unequivocally, without
reservation, yielding fully to the Father, it will happen. And sooner or
later it is going to happen. It just doesn&rsquo;t need to be later any
longer.

Don&rsquo;t delay it. And persist &hellip; persist &hellip; persist
&hellip; persist &hellip; in standing on the precipice, standing at the
threshold ready to do what you&rsquo;ve never done before and
don&rsquo;t know how to do, and say, &ldquo;Father, help me! Help me! I
am going to shut up and make room for You, so that my brother and I can
experience revelation. Because I really do believe, without stretching
my imagination too much that there is a better life we&rsquo;re supposed
to be living, and there is a better life to be had, right here. And so,
instead of just asking for it to be a little bit better, I&rsquo;m
asking &hellip; I&rsquo;m asking for the whole thing.&rdquo;

I love you &hellip; all of you. And I look forward to the next time
we&rsquo;re together.

[^1]: T15.3 Littleness versus Magnitude

