---
title: Feb 7, 2009
ref: "T15.3 Littleness versus Magnitude"
alink: "/acim/text/15/chap1503/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

What we&rsquo;re being presented with here, intellectually, is something
that many of you have experienced during crises or what you might call,
catharsis. It&rsquo;s arriving at a point where there is a realization,
not just a sentence, not just a string of words, but a realization that
you, [chuckle] you are not the center of attention. God is. And your
problems are not the center of attention. Truth is.

Until this point is arrived at, which amounts to a spontaneous giving up
of the attempt to be in control, you&rsquo;re very busy being the center
of your attention, and your problems are held in the center of your
attention. You want people to understand your problems. You want
validation of your problems so that you can get help. You want people to
understand your situation. And so there you are, the center of attention
insisting upon your problems being the center of attention.

But you know what? That&rsquo;s rather like being in the middle of the
coliseum with the lions and tigers and bears. They represent your
problems. And when you&rsquo;re the center of attention and you&rsquo;re
working from there, and your problems are the center of your attention,
what do you do? You attempt to get control of your problems, which means
that you want to get the lions, tigers and bears back in their cages and
off of the ground of the coliseum so there&rsquo;s no danger while
you&rsquo;re in the arena.

And so, when you&rsquo;re operating from littleness instead of
magnitude, you reach out to magnitude for help in being little,
successfully. You ask for help in remaining the center of attention. And
you ask for help to succeed in getting control of your problems. That is
what being an orphan is about. And so you effort at remaining little and
using magnitude to be little, successfully.

But the point at which catharsis occurs, the point at which illumination
and healing occurs, is when you realize that being in the arena with
problems to handle is not where the focus should be. You&rsquo;re not an
orphan and your problems are the result of being unconscious of Truth.

So the answer lies in realizing that magnitude is your nature,
it&rsquo;s not a tool by means of which you can succeed at being little,
better. Magnitude is the means by which you move entirely out of the
coliseum where the cages are that hold your problems.

Oh-h &hellip; but you say, &ldquo;I know, I&rsquo;m supposed to look
into my brother&rsquo;s eyes and remember God. But you&rsquo;re saying
that I need to adopt an awareness of my very being, being God, not just
my brother? I&rsquo;m to look in my own eyes and see God? I&rsquo;m
supposed to yield up my place as the center of attention and let God be
the center of my attention?&rdquo;

Well, of course this is what you go through before the catharsis occurs.
When the catharsis occurs, you sort of collapse [chuckle] and in the
collapsing, you don&rsquo;t disappear. You&rsquo;re still present. The
world has not come to an end, you&rsquo;re obviously not in charge, and
as you pay attention in that place where you&rsquo;re not asserting
yourself anymore, there is an influx. There is always an influx &hellip;
of what? Of divinity. Another way of putting it is, an influx of love
that you feel embraced by, supported by, nourished by and made whole by,
even though it makes no sense to you at all why you would be having this
experience under the circumstances, except for the inescapable knowing
that it&rsquo;s happening because there is a God and you have no doubt
about it now.

The reason you&rsquo;re having the experience of God&rsquo;s Love and
the actuality of God is because you managed somehow to yield up the
center of attention&mdash;to vacate the center of attention. And
actually, in vacating the center of attention, yourself, you vacated the
coliseum. You vacated the arena in which the problems were real and
governing you, and literally killing you. And in this space outside the
coliseum, balance and perspective and the apparent correction of the
problems or resolution of the problems occurs. Not actually because the
problems were real and were overcome, but because the problems were
misperceptions which occurred because you were making yourself and your
problems the center of attention. And so clarity is restored, in peace.

Now, I&rsquo;m going to move back to the beginning of the paragraph
which we finished up with last time:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Decide for God through Him. [^1]
</div>

Meaning through the Holy Spirit. See here &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Decide for God &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; let God be the center of attention. Forget about yourself. I
know it&rsquo;s hard to do, but &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Decide for God through Him. For littleness, and the belief that you can
be content with littleness, are the decisions you have made about
yourself.
</div>

Littleness is when [chuckle] you&rsquo;re not only thinking for
yourself, you&rsquo;re thinking about yourself. That&rsquo;s what
littleness is.

Magnitude is when you&rsquo;re letting God be the center of attention in
the silence of your mind. And what God is Being is what occupies your
interest and curiosity. It&rsquo;s something that spontaneously happens
when you&rsquo;re being silent.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The power and the glory that lie in you from God are for all who, like
you, perceive themselves as little, and have deceived themselves into
believing that littleness can be blown up by them into a sense of
magnitude that can content them.
</div>

See, that&rsquo;s where you try to bring magnitude to littleness. It
won&rsquo;t work. [laughs] You can&rsquo;t fill a bottle up more than
full, can you? Even if you have two quarts of milk, if you fill up a
one-quart bottle, you can&rsquo;t fill it fuller than one-quart full.
It&rsquo;s simple. You can&rsquo;t bring magnitude to littleness because
littleness cannot contain magnitude. And it cannot fill littleness
fuller than the littleness is, which means that the problem can&rsquo;t
really be solved because nothing beyond the problem can be allowed,
because the problem defines itself as incapable of containing magnitude.

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Neither give littleness, nor accept it. All honor is due the host of
God.
</div>

We&rsquo;re not talking about the heavenly Hosts, or the heavenly Host.
We&rsquo;re talking about the host of God. That&rsquo;s you!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
All honor is due the host of God.
</div>

You are that which God is Being in the act of extending Himself. You are
host to God. You are not the originator of a self&mdash;an independent
self.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
All honor is due the host of God. Your littleness deceives you, but your
magnitude is of Him Who dwells in you, and in Whom you dwell.
</div>

See, your magnitude is of not yourself, your magnitude is of Him. You
are not the center of attention. And as long as you attempt to be the
center of attention, you will not Wake up. Atonement will not occur.
Enlightenment, revelation, coming back into your right Mind will not
occur.

It seems to be a simple thing I&rsquo;m saying, but it&rsquo;s an
extremely profound thing because you define yourself and govern yourself
by means of littleness, not by means of God. And so, when you let God be
the center of attention for you, it&rsquo;s a significant shift of
perception for you&mdash;one in which motivation shifts radically from
selfishness and self-preservation, to love and embrace and support for
all that you dare to include.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your littleness deceives you, but your magnitude is of Him Who dwells in
you, and in Whom you dwell.
</div>

Now listen to this:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Touch no-one, then, with littleness in the Name of Christ, eternal Host
unto His Father.
</div>

Now where did that come from? Who was talking about &hellip; uh-h
&hellip; you know, touching someone with littleness in the name of
Christ? You certainly don&rsquo;t go around belittling yourself or your
brother in the name of Christ do you? Of course you do! Because you
can&rsquo;t stop being what you Are. You are the Christ. You are God,
you are God Presencing Himself as Himself right there where you&rsquo;re
saying that you&rsquo;re an independent entity&mdash;a definition of
littleness.

But where God is expressing Himself, is the Christ. Right now you are
the Christ behaving as though you&rsquo;re not. And so you touch your
brothers with littleness in the name of Christ. You&rsquo;re doing
everything you do in the name of Christ, because you are the Christ
doing it. And you&rsquo;re either doing it fully consciously aware of
yourself as what you Are divinely, truly, or you&rsquo;re doing it
unconscious of who you Are and what you Are.

&ldquo;Oh-h &hellip; so now, not only am I not the center of attention,
[chuckle] I&rsquo;m the Christ Who I didn&rsquo;t even ask to be
&hellip; you know &hellip; Christ was Jesus &hellip; you know &hellip;
2000 years ago&mdash;Somebody else! You know &hellip; and I can choose
to follow Him or learn from Him or be blessed by whatever wisdom He
dared to embrace &hellip; you know &hellip; but &hellip; uh-h &hellip;
hey! I sort of like the coliseum and I sort of like the thrill of
dealing with my problems and when they come out, getting them back caged
again.&rdquo;

Well, then put away the book. Stop wanting to know the truth.

The simple fact is, that you are the Christ, and whether you do
something ignorantly or fully consciously, it is done in the name of the
Christ because the Christ is doing it.

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
All honor is due the host of God.
</div>

You, and all of your brothers and sisters.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your littleness deceives you, but your magnitude is of Him Who dwells in
you, and in Whom you dwell. Touch no-one, then, with littleness in the
Name of Christ, eternal Host unto His Father.
</div>

Stop acting like what you are not. And dare to take what this is saying
and what I&rsquo;m sharing with you with utmost clarity.

Take this seriously. Take it as though it&rsquo;s the truth so that you
think twice before you do anything in the name of Christ that
doesn&rsquo;t embody the Christ.

Now, you&rsquo;re supposed to look into your brother&rsquo;s eyes and
remember God. We&rsquo;ve talked about doing this by means of, what
I&rsquo;ve called, &ldquo;The two-step&rdquo;&mdash;where, instead of
responding to your brother or sister on the basis of your best
definition of him or her, you hesitate. You step back and you ask,
&ldquo;God, what is the truth here?&rdquo; In so many words you say,
&ldquo;God, I want you to reveal Yourself to me, as what is there where
I see my brother or my sister. I want a full disclosure of You right
there. I want You to fill me up with the experience of truth so that I
might spontaneously and effortlessly extend it to my brother. But more
than that, so that I am not engaging in misperceptions and believing
them to be the truth, forcing me to suffer from ignorance and behave
badly&mdash;behave inappropriately, behave mistakenly. I want to know
the truth about my brother because I want to be sane. And so, I&rsquo;m
going to look at my brother, but I&rsquo;m not going to let my brother
be the center of my attention.

&ldquo;In so many words, I&rsquo;m going to look at my brother who I
currently am perceiving him to be, with a willingness to look through
what I&rsquo;m perceiving him to be, so that I may see God there.&rdquo;

You see, you, in doing the two-step, are letting God be the center of
your attention as you&rsquo;re looking at your brother. Why? Because God
is all that is there as what you&rsquo;re calling your brother, just as
God is all that Is where you are.

Again, the simple realization, and the ultimate realization is, you are
not the center of attention. And your problems are not the center of
attention. Let yourself as the center of attention, go. Let your
problems as the center of attention, go. Instead of yourself as the
center of attention, open yourself up to God and let God be the center
of your attention so that your attention draws from God what God Is.
And let the problems that have been the center of your attention, let
them be replaced by truth filling the void, because you want to know the
truth.

Anything else is bringing magnitude to littleness. And I&rsquo;m sorry,
you will never ever succeed at being a real orphan.

Now continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In this season (Christmas), which celebrates the birth of holiness into
this world, join with me who decided for holiness for YOU.
</div>

Well, how do you join with me who decided for holiness for you? By you
joining with your brother and deciding for holiness for him.

How do you do that? You decide for holiness for him by looking past
whatever your present definitions are of your brother, letting God be
the center of your attention where your brother is, so that you bring
into your awareness by your attention to God, the experience of God
which will reveal your brother to you truly as what he divinely is as
well as in his perfection. And I mean by that, fully healed of any
imperfections.

I&rsquo;m talking about this act of letting God be the center of your
attention where your brother is being that which is actually
transformational. Not just a pleasant &ldquo;cloud-9&rdquo; thought that
it becomes super-imposed upon your &ldquo;poor&rdquo; brother. This is
very important. Because we&rsquo;re talking about shifting from what you
call the world and universe&mdash;which is a misperception of the
Kingdom of Heaven&mdash;to the direct experience of the Kingdom of
Heaven right here, right now!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is our task TOGETHER to restore the awareness of magnitude to the
host whom God appointed for Himself.
</div>

Well, who is the host whom God appointed for Himself? Every single
brother and sister. Every aspect of Creation.

&ldquo;Oh-h, but this is so different. This is such a different goal
from what I had when I was the center of my attention. Uh-h &hellip;
it&rsquo;s interesting, but it doesn&rsquo;t feel very significant to
me. It feels a little altruistic. It feels a little disconnected. It
feels sort of impersonal.&rdquo;

That&rsquo;s only because you haven&rsquo;t done it yet. [Chuckling] The
fact is that when it&rsquo;s done, the intimacy of oneness with your
brother is fully experienced and there&rsquo;s nothing theoretical or of
the nature of fantasy to it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is our task TOGETHER to restore the awareness of magnitude to the
host whom God appointed for Himself. It is beyond all your littleness to
give the gift of God&hellip;

It is beyond all your littleness to give the gift of God, but
NOT beyond YOU.
</div>

Because littleness is not what you are. It&rsquo;s not beyond the Christ
that you Are. It&rsquo;s not beyond the holy one that you fully Are at
this moment, even though you&rsquo;re not embracing the conscious
experience of it fully. And so, it is going to be you in this moment
having a transformed experience, one in which your Christhood becomes
believable and experienceable, so that believing it fades out of the
picture, because it&rsquo;s a knowing because you remember who you Are.

So, mind you, this is a very simple lesson. It&rsquo;s the difference
between magnitude and littleness. It&rsquo;s the difference between
being Awake and dreaming dreams. And it&rsquo;s the whole point of all
of the talking and all of the reading that we&rsquo;ve been doing.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is beyond all your littleness to give the gift of God, but NOT beyond
YOU. For God would give Himself through you. He reaches from you to
everyone, and beyond everyone to His Son&rsquo;s creations, but without
leaving you.
</div>

You see. So this action of God doesn&rsquo;t cause separation. It
doesn&rsquo;t cause differences between &hellip; or between-nesses.
It&rsquo;s given through you, but you&rsquo;re included.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Far beyond your little world, but still in you&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Christ that you Are &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; He extends forever. Yet He brings all his extensions to you, as
host to Him.
</div>

Do you see? If you&rsquo;re host to God, then you are the place where
God is Being. And all that God is Being is included in you. You see,
you&rsquo;re not the center of attention. You&rsquo;re something, but
you&rsquo;re not the center of attention. Abide with that. And let the
fullness of its meaning increase itself.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Is it a sacrifice to leave littleness behind, and wander not in vain?
</div>

Well, it will seem so to you, because the goal is so different&mdash;the
goal isn&rsquo;t self-preservation. And so the goal isn&rsquo;t the hit
of succeeding at preserving yourself. It&rsquo;s something else that you
hadn&rsquo;t given much meaning to. And so, it feels like you&rsquo;re
sacrificing something. It feels like you&rsquo;re giving up something.
&ldquo;What will I do? When I get together with my friends &hellip; you
know &hellip; we talk about our last operation and the problems
we&rsquo;re having with old man, and how we&rsquo;re going to deal with
our wives &hellip; and you know, working out these real-life problems
are what means something. Uh-h &hellip; Without problems to discuss what
will we do? You see, life will be pretty flat, pretty empty.&rdquo;
Well, I promise you it won&rsquo;t. There will be no sacrifice.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Is it a sacrifice to leave littleness behind, and wander not in vain?
</div>

Remember that littleness is thinking for yourself, and thinking about
yourself. It&rsquo;s not a sacrifice to leave that behind and wander not
in vain.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is not sacrifice to wake to glory.
</div>

Glory &hellip; I&rsquo;m not going to try to define the word. But for
those of you who have gone through a crisis and arrived at a point where
you gave up and experienced a catharsis and were filled with an
undeniable conscious awareness of God&rsquo;s Love, and found your needs
met but not at your own hand, you now know what it means to know that
there is a God. Nobody could have described that to you before. One of
the most significant parts of the experience is the fact that you
recognized that you are loved and you&rsquo;re having the practical
evidences of being loved in spite of the fact that you are doing
absolutely nothing yourself to create the meeting of the need. If that
doesn&rsquo;t convey the real meaning of Love, nothing does.

So, this word &ldquo;glory&rdquo; isn&rsquo;t bandied about carelessly.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is not sacrifice to wake to glory.
</div>

It&rsquo;s a real experience. And it&rsquo;s there for you, it&rsquo;s
here for you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[Raj didn&rsquo;t read] But it IS a sacrifice to accept anything LESS
than glory.
{: .omit}

Learn that you MUST be worthy of the Prince of Peace, born in you in
honor of Him Whose host you are.
</div>

That doesn&rsquo;t mean: &ldquo;You must be worthy! You must be worthy!
Mind your P&rsquo;s and Q&rsquo;s! You must be worthy! You had better be
able to measure up! You must be worthy!&rdquo; No. It&rsquo;s saying,
you must be worthy, because of what you Are you are worthy. You
don&rsquo;t have to toe the line to be worthy. All you have to do is
abandon the center of attention and let something else in. The something
else that will come in, will be that which discloses to you as an
experience, your already existing worthiness. And you&rsquo;ll know that
it was there all along because you&rsquo;ll know that you did absolutely
nothing at the [snaps fingers] moment of transition, for it to come into
your experience.

So, it isn&rsquo;t as though now you have it because you did something
right, when you did nothing at all. That&rsquo;s the gift of it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You know not what love means because you have sought to purchase it with
little gifts, thus valuing it too little to be able to understand its
magnitude. Love is NOT little, and love dwells in you, for you are host
to Him. Before the greatness that lives in you, your poor appreciation
of yourself and all the little offerings you have given slip into
nothingness.
</div>

In the presence of the experience of what Love really is and that it
embraces you, supports you and negates consequences of ignorance that
never did represent you truly. That is what awaits you. And that&rsquo;s
the proof &hellip; that&rsquo;s the proof that all of the struggle and
the strife you&rsquo;ve engaged in was meaningless, because you never
were that poor orphan.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Holy Child of God, when will you learn that ONLY holiness can content
you and give you peace?
</div>

Holy Child of God, when will you learn that ONLY being out of the arena,
only being out of the coliseum, only abandoning the supposed value of
getting all your problems back into their cages is your Birthright?

Well, tonight&rsquo;s not too soon. Your habit though is, the moment you
start to think, for you to be the center of your attention, and for your
problems to be the center of your attention, and you will continue to
occupy yourselves that way until having yourself as the center of your
attention and having your problems as the center of your attention
overwhelm you to the point where you have to say, &ldquo;Uncle!&rdquo;

The grand lessons: Your not the center of attention and your problems
are not the center of attention. And when those two centers of attention
&hellip; points of attention are abandoned in favor of knowing God and
in favor of knowing the truth, Atonement occurs.

Now, the fact is, that you are going to have to find a way to go through
your days&mdash;which at this point you go through out of habit, mostly
unconsciously, just knee-jerk responses, some of which are graceful and
some of which are harsh&mdash;and your going to have to find a way to go
through your day, because you&rsquo;re going through a day in the
Kingdom of Heaven in actuality, and you&rsquo;re really the Christ, the
eternal host of the Father &hellip; your going to have to find a way to
go through this day letting God be the center of your attention.

And for the sake of keeping you totally grounded, that means not going
off into a mountain cave, not rising above the human scene, but meeting
with your brother or sister and looking at them and remembering to say,
&ldquo;I wish to see God here. God, reveal Yourself to me in your [my]
brother. I do not want to be bound by my ignorance of him. And so, what
I&rsquo;m asking for is to be changed. I am asking for my perceptions to
be changed. And I am asking for my wants to be modified so that they
cease being wants looking for littleness in order to establish
littleness, and instead desire to experience magnitude right here where
I have fought for the right to be little &hellip; period.&rdquo;

When you&rsquo;re suffering it is relatively easier to do that. But
where you&rsquo;re going to make your greatest headway is when you
engage in this when it&rsquo;s not a means of getting control of your
problems. When you&rsquo;re in the relatively free space of harmonious
experiences, harmonious relationships and using this non-contentious
space to transcend, or get beyond, or behind the current perceptions:
Your current perceptions, your brother&rsquo;s current perceptions.
Push for it!

Man, when you&rsquo;re dying of a terminal illness you usually can
muster up the kind of commitment that I&rsquo;m referring to here. But
realize that if you have the capacity to do it under those
circumstances, you have the capacity to do it in harmonious,
non-threatening circumstances. And fight for your sanity, we&rsquo;ll
say, by bringing concerted commitment to wanting to know the truth, and
a concerted insistence upon abandoning the center of attention yourself
so that you might let the presence of God illuminate Itself as all there
actually is to the you that you Are, in all the fullness of what that
means &hellip; in all the transformational fullness of what that means.
And then give permission for yourself to be changed.

Do you want healing for yourself? Do you want healing for your brother?
Then stop trying to be the center of attention. Stop opting for
littleness. Want to know God, because the simple fact is that when you
know God you will know your Self. You&rsquo;ll not disappear. You will
not be swallowed up.

If you don&rsquo;t do this, you will get sick &hellip; you will be well
&hellip; you will get sick &hellip; you will get well, and you will die.
That&rsquo;s the way it goes, isn&rsquo;t it? Only a handful have had a
different experience. So, what will it cost you? . . except perhaps the
option to get sick and well, and sick and well, and it might cost you
the option of being able to have the experience of dying. That&rsquo;s
not really very expensive is it? [chuckling] That isn&rsquo;t a great
cost.

So this week, abide with the simplicity of this: You aren&rsquo;t the
center of attention, God is. And your problems shouldn&rsquo;t be the
center of your attention, truth should be.

This will put you in a position of changing your goals and of having
your values shift. But the one thing it won&rsquo;t do is estrange you
to your fellowman or your world.

The strife that is occurring in the world is evidence of an already
existing estrangement and that is what needs to be healed. And that is
what will be healed when you realize that you&rsquo;re not to be the
center of attention, and your problems are not to be the center of your
attention.

God is the center of your attention and truth should be the center of
your attention. That&rsquo;s not too simple an answer to the problem of
being.

I look forward to being with your next week.

[^1]: T15.3 Littleness versus Magnitude

