---
title: Feb 28, 2009
ref: "T15.3 Littleness versus Magnitude"
alink: "/acim/text/15/chap1503/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

One of the disturbing lessons in A Course In Miracles is the one that
says, &ldquo;Nothing I see means anything.&rsquo;&rdquo; And at another
point, one of them says, &ldquo;I see a Meaningless world.&rdquo;

Well, how many of you are getting up each day and seeing a meaningless
world?

How many of you are wondering whether there really is a God?

How many of you are having trouble experiencing any happiness whatsoever
because you&rsquo;re seeing a meaningless world?

Well, when the Course says, &ldquo;Nothing I see means anything,&rdquo;
it means, &ldquo;Nothing I see when I&rsquo;m looking all by myself,
means anything. Nothing I see, when I&rsquo;m giving everything the
definitions of what it is, means anything.&rdquo;

But the fact is that you could say, &ldquo;Nothing I see means anything,
but everything I&rsquo;m looking at means something.&rdquo; This is very
important. &ldquo;Nothing I am seeing all by myself with my private
vision means anything, but everything I&rsquo;m looking at means
Something&mdash;meaning it&rsquo;s the evidence of God.&rdquo;

So, when you get up in the morning and you see a meaningless world,
don&rsquo;t just sit there believing what&rsquo;s going on in your mind.
It may be meaningless to you at the moment, but everything you&rsquo;re
looking at does have divine Meaning.

Now, it&rsquo;s going to be hard if you embrace this, really. It&rsquo;s
going to be hard to be depressed. It&rsquo;s going to be hard to look at
a meaningless world without curiosity. Curiosity is going to be there to
know what it really means. &ldquo;What is the divine Meaning?&rdquo; And
when curiosity presents itself and becomes active in your awareness,
you&rsquo;re reaching outside of your present definitions.

In effect, when you say to yourself, &ldquo;I wonder what this really
means?&rdquo; and you&rsquo;re not going to rely on your own best
thinking for the answer, you are asking the Powers that be, or God, if
you will. You&rsquo;re breaking your isolation, you&rsquo;re breaking
your solid intent to pay attention to nothing other than yourself.

You are being willing to stop being the center of your attention.

When that happens, a miracle can occur. A miracle being&mdash;as we all
know&mdash;a sudden shift of perception.

Again, when you are willing to abandon the position of &ldquo;the center
of your attention&rdquo; and you are willing to enquire of God&mdash;to
be curious of God to know what the truth is&mdash;there will be a shift
of perception because you&rsquo;re abandoning littleness for magnitude.

Now, there&rsquo;s a story, whether it&rsquo;s true or not, to the
effect that sometime in the 1930&rsquo;s, two different shoe companies
sent a salesman each to Africa. And after a few months, one of the
salesmen was not sending orders back to the main company in the U.S. and
they sent a cable to him and said, &ldquo;What&rsquo;s the
problem?&rdquo; And the salesman wires back, &ldquo;It&rsquo;s a
disaster. No one wears shoes!&rdquo;

Now, the other salesman was sending back order after order after order
for large quantities of shoes. And they were curious as to why he was so
successful. And so they cabled him and he cabled back, &ldquo;It&rsquo;s
miraculous, no one here wears shoes!&rdquo;

One salesman took things at face value, you might say: No one wears
shoes, no one had ever worn shoes, it was foreign to them and there
would be no way to get them to change their ways and so he had no
success. But, he could&rsquo;ve had a sudden shift of perception so that
the very thing that he saw as a problem, that being that no one wore
shoes, would become the focus of great success&mdash;because no one wore
shoes, everyone needed shoes!

Now, when you get up in the morning, how are you going to look at your
world? Are you going to make the little gift of your poor assessment of
everything that&rsquo;s going on, and of your situation? Are you going
to adopt the poor assessment that your news-broadcasters are presenting?

Or are you going to say, &ldquo;Nothing I see means anything, but
everything I&rsquo;m looking at does mean Something! And I want to know
what the Something is that it means.&rdquo;

Now, I keep saying that that&rsquo;s not too simplistic &hellip; so
simplistic that it might only act as a salve on your troubled mind, but
not be something that could actually be transformational. But I&rsquo;m
telling you, that how you use your mind determines your experience. Not
because it&rsquo;s powerful, but because if it is misused and you engage
in an act of denying what is really there, in favor of the definition
you have made up, you are going to have a sad experience. Not because
there is something going on that genuinely calls for sadness, but
because you are denying yourself the experience of the Kingdom of Heaven
by determining that it is nothing more than a material world and
universe and remaining convinced as to your definition.

Now, I&rsquo;m sure that everyone, or many of you who are listening,
feel a need for encouragement&mdash;some inspiration, some upliftment.
And so I&rsquo;m going to share something with you, but not because
it&rsquo;s needed right now, but because it&rsquo;s simply the truth and
it&rsquo;s something I&rsquo;ve been sharing for twenty-seven years, so
it isn&rsquo;t something I&rsquo;ve come up with this week to jack you
up a little bit.

Now the fact is, that there is a movement of Awakening occurring and has
been for some years now. The reason being, that the number of those who
are asleep and dreaming dreams, who are looking at the Kingdom of Heaven
and determining that it&rsquo;s just a material world and universe, the
number of those of the Brotherhood who are bound to this small gift of
their personal thinking is dwindling because they are Awakening. And as
a result, the bond, you might say, between those who are still sleeping,
the bond of their mutual agreements as to what the meaning of everything
is, is weakening.

There are beginning to be too few, and there have been beginning to be
too few of the Brotherhood convinced of their ignorance. And as that
bond weakens, there is more and more spontaneous Awakening. It is
inevitable. And every single one of you today, is in a better position
than you were twenty years ago because the density of the dream is
actually less than it was, therefore, the bonds that seem to hold you do
not have the apparent structural integrity to hold you tightly any
longer.

Now, we&rsquo;ve been going through the Course and we&rsquo;ve come to
this section called, Littleness Versus Magnitude, and it has become
clearer than ever before that the difference between littleness and
magnitude lies in whether you&rsquo;re letting yourself be the center of
your attention, and whether in that space, you are letting your problems
be the center of your attention. If they are, you are coming from a
place of littleness, seeking solutions without abandoning the
littleness. And there is no room for magnitude there.

But magnitude is your Birthright. Another way of saying that is:
Wholeness is your Birthright. Not partiality. Not where all there is to
you is a little part of everything and your experience is filled with
little parts of everything but not all of it.

Now, when you are willing to abandon being the center of attention and
you&rsquo;re willing to let God be the center of attention by always
asking God, &ldquo;What does this mean? What does that mean? What is
really going on here? What&rsquo;s the divine fact that has to be going
on in order for me to be having a misperception of it? What is the
perfect perception of it that will eradicate the misperception and the
suffering that accompanies my strong belief in my misperception?&rdquo;

Magnitude, you could say, has to do with size. It&rsquo;s more like
volume. If you have a humungous ball and you fill the center of the ball
up with air or water, there&rsquo;s a certain volume inside the ball.
Now, when we speak about littleness versus magnitude, when we talk about
the difference between privacy and opening up to God, we&rsquo;re
talking about leaving an enclosure for infinity.

Now many of you have had experiences of &ldquo;being big,&rdquo; where
you were no longer in the location that you had experienced yourself in.
And although everything in that location is still there, you are
embracing it all instead of being a small thing in the middle of a big
environment. You experience being the environment in which all of it is
going on. And there&rsquo;s no other way to describe it except you are
big. The volume of you embraces more than you&rsquo;ve ever experienced
before.

Now, when you abandon littleness, when you abandon privacy, and you open
up to God and you let God be the center of your attention, you will
experience or have a changed experience, you will not experience
everything in the same way that you always had when you were insisting
on littleness&mdash;when you were insisting on being the center of your
attention.

Ultimately, magnitude means infinity&mdash;infinity as the environment
of consciousness, infinity as the size, if you will, of mind, of being
aware, of being the conscious experience of everything infinitely. It
means that you will experience everything with God&rsquo;s Vision.
There&rsquo;s no other way to put it. And because all is embraced
within, the environment of your mind, which is itself magnitude or
infinity, there is no room for or experience of partiality. There are no
longer little parts. There are infinite aspects of the Oneness, but no
private, separable parts.

Because of that, the experience is one of absolute safety. The
experience is of such integrity, or I will say, integrity of such
magnitude, that it is actually inconceivable to imagine that there could
be such a thing as threat.

Again, if you see something on the news&mdash;a news flash
occurs&mdash;and they say something, and they say something that is
supposed to be alarming and you say, &ldquo;Oh-h, shit!&rdquo;
you&rsquo;ve made a little gift. You&rsquo;ve made a gift of littleness.
You&rsquo;ve made a gift of thinking all by yourself. And you
wouldn&rsquo;t have said, &ldquo;Oh-h, shit!&rdquo; if you weren&rsquo;t
in some way going to be the recipient of the bad news. So, here you are
the center of your attention, focused on a problem of yours.

You&rsquo;re like the shoe salesman, &ldquo;It&rsquo;s disastrous
&hellip; no one wears shoes!&rdquo; And yet that response is not
necessary.

Another phrase in the Course community that everyone knows is:
&ldquo;There is another way to look at this.&rdquo; Oh &hellip; it rolls
off people&rsquo;s lips with such ease. Well listen, tomorrow morning
when you get up, or tonight on the 11 o&rsquo;clock news, when something
comes up, say, &ldquo;There is another way to look at this,&rdquo; and
then give your attention to God to ask, &ldquo;What is the way to look
at this and what is the truth that has to be going on in order for such
a misperception to be occurring because I want to know the truth?&rdquo;
Why? Because the truth about it will negate the misperception and allow
for an answer that blesses everyone&mdash;blesses everyone,
doesn&rsquo;t bless some and cost others.

Transformation is occurring right now, not disastrous things.
Transformation is occurring. What&rsquo;s needed are those who are
willing to look and say, &ldquo;Okay, evidently things that have worked
before are no longer working. Evidently things have progressed to a
point where something more streamlined or something more reasonable or
some closer approximation of truth is about to come forward and I would
like to know what it is. I am going to give my attention to what this
newness is &hellip; what this transfiguration is &hellip; um-m.&rdquo;

I went up onto the mount and there was great light and there was
transfiguration. You think transfiguration doesn&rsquo;t feel like
something to the one who&rsquo;s being transfigured? And what do you
think would happen if you resisted transfiguration when it was
happening? Because of course, transfiguration isn&rsquo;t something that
happens at your hand&mdash;at your will. And so if you&rsquo;re going to
try to resist what comes from, for lack of better words, a greater
power&mdash;an act of divine intervention&mdash;you&rsquo;re going to
have difficulty doing it successfully and comfortably.

So, you&rsquo;re on call here to do exactly what we&rsquo;ve been
reading about.

You&rsquo;re on call to do the &ldquo;two-step.&rdquo;

You&rsquo;re on call to become the shoe salesman who sells lots of
shoes.

You&rsquo;re on call to experience a sudden shift of perception that
allows you to be the facilitator of what? Your brother being able to
have a sudden shift of perception. Why? Because now that you have had
it, there is someone for your brother to join with and abandon his
commitment to all the other brothers who are still sleeping and
insisting upon littleness and insisting upon the old that is no longer
working. You see?

&ldquo;Oh-h, what can you do &hellip; you know &hellip; this has to do
with banks and this has to do with the economy and I don&rsquo;t have a
pot to pee in &hellip; I have no means!&rdquo;

Well, that&rsquo;s your gift of littleness. Stop making little gifts!
STOP IT! It&rsquo;s time to have the joy of being in your world that
you have thought was a material world and universe.

It&rsquo;s time for you to be in the world and have a new Vision.

It&rsquo;s time for you to have the curiosity to see the Kingdom of
Heaven that it Is!

And it&rsquo;s time for you to turn to God for a visual aide, if you
will. Ask Him to show you, ask the Holy Spirit to show you, ask those
Who are Awake to show you the new Vision. And suspend your practice of
doubt and fear and depression. Just suspend it! You can do it! And be in
that neutral place, be in the void, be in the silence where you&rsquo;re
not thinking for yourself and you&rsquo;re not thinking about yourself
and you&rsquo;re practicing curiosity.

And you know what? As part of abandoning being the center of attention,
do this, do what I&rsquo;m talking about for your brother and your
sister, your neighbor, your acquaintances. It&rsquo;s the only way it
works! You have to abandon selfishness and self-centeredness. And
you&rsquo;ve got to embrace something outside yourself. That&rsquo;s the
bottom line.

You must look into your brother&rsquo;s eyes and remember God. There is
no other way to do it.

And now is the right time to do it. Anytime is the right time to do it.
But there&rsquo;s a need. You might say that divinity is pressuring you
to embrace more than the limited definitions you&rsquo;ve been working
with for the last umpteen years.

That&rsquo;s a wake up call. That&rsquo;s a wonderful invitation.
That&rsquo;s an invitation to no longer be stuck. And the invitation is
coming from One who knows that it&rsquo;s not your Birthright for you to
be stuck, and is therefore, able to relate to you in a way that is
supportive and inspirational to you. Because the very fact that you are
asked to do it is a statement that you are capable of doing it, that you
are able to be in a new way, right here, right now.

Of course, it&rsquo;s going to change the way you relate to your
neighbors and friends and family, because you&rsquo;re not going to
commiserate about &hellip; oh, all the horrible stuff that&rsquo;s going
on in the world and the duplicity and the dishonesty and the on and on
and on and on. Because of course, [chuckle] every bit of that is you
thinking and sharing your thoughts. You thinking all by yourself and
sharing your thoughts. And of course, if there is negativity attached to
what you are saying it&rsquo;s because at the bottom line in some way,
you are feeling vulnerable because of what&rsquo;s going on.

So there you are, the center of your attention, and there your problems
are, the center of your attention. As long as that&rsquo;s your focus,
you will not be looking where your salvation lies. You won&rsquo;t be
looking in your brothers&rsquo; eyes except to see how to be best
defended against whatever he&rsquo;s going to do next. Because after
all, you can&rsquo;t trust anybody these days &hellip; you see.

So you dig yourself into a very, very private hole and a very tiny hole.
A hole that immobilizes you. And you say, &ldquo;Of course, I&rsquo;m
depressed.&rdquo; [laughing] Well, of course, you&rsquo;re depressed,
because you&rsquo;re digging a hole and climbing into it and saying,
&ldquo;There is no other way to look at this. There is no other way to
look at this &hellip; the world is going to hell in a hand-basket. It
actually is! And if it isn&rsquo;t, the recovery is going to be so
protracted that I won&rsquo;t be around to enjoy the result and heaven
knows if my children or their grandchildren will.&rdquo;

Isn&rsquo;t it wonderful, isn&rsquo;t it amazing the gifts of littleness
that you give&mdash;the little gifts that you give of your thoughts. The
only thing is, that it&rsquo;s like you have a paint brush and you dip
the paint brush into your thoughts and you paint your face and you paint
your head &hellip; you dip it in a little &hellip; you paint your arms
and you paint your body. And you become the image of your little gifts.
Wow, when the fact is that you are the holy Son of God Himself. And the
holy Son of God Himself is painting himself with littleness and
believing the definition he has covered himself up with. &ldquo;I am not
the holy Son of God, Himself. There is no God. If there was a God, these
things wouldn&rsquo;t be happening in the world. And if we were the Sons
of God, we wouldn&rsquo;t be doing these things in the world.&rdquo;

Well, I&rsquo;m telling you something real simple and something very
profound: You are the Sons and Daughters of God, doing these silly
things! And because you&rsquo;re the Sons and Daughters of God, you
don&rsquo;t have to do these silly things. No one is requiring it of
you, circumstances are not requiring it of you, life isn&rsquo;t
requiring it of you, &ldquo;the way things work&rdquo; aren&rsquo;t
requiring it of you. It&rsquo;s something you just decided to try out.
And by damn it you&rsquo;re doing it. And it&rsquo;s just really hard to
see that you&rsquo;re damned by what you&rsquo;re doing, by damned.

Let&rsquo;s go into the book, and I want to back up just a moment in the
previous paragraph. It says:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You know not what love means because you have sought to purchase it with
little gifts, thus valuing it too little to be able to understand its
magnitude.[^1]
</div>

In other words, the infinity of it, the endlessness of it, for lack of
better words&mdash;the omnipresence of infinity. And you&rsquo;ve tried
to buy it with little gifts. In other words, your own thoughts that
you&rsquo;ve made up.

So, continuing on &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Remember that you learn not for yourself alone, no more than I did.
</div>

You see. It&rsquo;s just not about you! It&rsquo;s not all about you!
You&rsquo;re not the center of attention! You&rsquo;re not the focus of
attention.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Remember that you learn not for yourself alone, no more than I did. It
is BECAUSE I learned for you that you can learn of me.
</div>

I learned for you, and because of that you can learn of me. Now, that
needs to be translated into something practical for you. When you learn
not for yourself alone, but for your brother, then your brother can
learn of you. That&rsquo;s the way it works.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is BECAUSE I learned for you that you can learn of me.
</div>

And when you have learned for your brother, your brother can learn of
you. It&rsquo;s simple. You&rsquo;ve got to give your brother something
to join, something other than the brothers who are all sleeping and
dreaming and committed by their mutual agreements to sleep and dream and
suffer from being unconscious of what they divinely Are.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I would but teach you what is yours&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and that&rsquo;s what I&rsquo;m doing all along here.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I would but teach you what is yours, so that together we can replace the
shabby littleness that binds the host of God to guilt and weakness
&hellip;
</div>

What&rsquo;s the shabby littleness that binds the host of God? And whose
the host of God? Each one of you is the host of God. Each one of you is
the place where God presents Himself. The shabby littleness that binds
you, the host of God, is the practice of thinking for yourself and then
sharing what you&rsquo;ve thought up&mdash;a gift from privacy, a gift
from isolation.

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I would but teach you what is yours, so that together we can replace the
shabby littleness that binds the host of God to guilt and weakness with
the glad awareness of the glory that is in him.
</div>

Now, I&rsquo;m sharing with you the glad awareness of the glory that is
in you, by pointing out to you that no matter [chuckling] who you
thought your parents were and what sperm and what egg created the
organism that you are, your mother, father is God and always has been.
And as the Son or Daughter of God, you are the Christ and have always
been. And in spite of the fact that you&rsquo;ve been behaving as though
you are not the holy Son of God and believing it, you have an
alternative. There&rsquo;s another way to look at it. There&rsquo;s
another way to be, because there&rsquo;s a glory in you.

Now, I&rsquo;ll tell you something: When you get up in the morning and
you look at this meaningless world and you see how awful things are and
you feel depressed and you do not feel the motivation for getting up and
taking a step anywhere, not even into the shower, you are not conceiving
of glory of any sort being in you. Now what that means is, that you have
abandoned the awareness of the glory in you. It doesn&rsquo;t mean
it&rsquo;s not there. It can&rsquo;t go anywhere because you can&rsquo;t
stop being what God is expressing of Himself right there where you are,
infinitely&mdash;in other words, with magnitude.

So, you don&rsquo;t have to be stuck in that depression. You don&rsquo;t
have to be stuck in that immobilization. You must remind yourself that
there is a glory in you. You must remind yourself, &ldquo;I am the holy
Son of God, Himself.&rdquo; When you say that, what are you doing?
You&rsquo;re abandoning being the center of attention. You&rsquo;re
deferring to God as the Presence that is right where you are, being what
is right there where you are. &ldquo;I am not my own self-creation. I am
the holy Son of God, Himself!&rdquo;

Whew! That means there&rsquo;s a glory in you. That means there&rsquo;s
a magnitude, a wholeness, an infinite wholeness to you, in which your
absolute security lies, in which your invulnerability is an
undisturbable fact. And even though you say, &ldquo;Yeah, right! Then
how come I&rsquo;m experiencing it now? If I were really the Son of God,
I wouldn&rsquo;t be experiencing it if all this was true.&rdquo; Wrong.
You will experience it as long as you choose to be the center of
attention. As long as you are denying what you Are, you will not be
comfortable. You cannot be in a state of self-denial and be sane or
comfortable. You cannot do it without experiencing the two
brothers&mdash;guilt and fear. You just can&rsquo;t. But you can stop
having the experience, if you&rsquo;ll stop holding center position.

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
My birth in you is your awakening to grandeur.

My birth in you &hellip;
</div>

That simply means when you let me in, when you&rsquo;re willing to make
room for someone other than yourself.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
My birth in you is your awakening to grandeur. Welcome me not into a
manger, but into the altar to holiness, where holiness abides in perfect
peace.
</div>

And where is the altar to holiness? Right in the center of you.

Now that means, welcome me not into a small, tiny, limited, negative
assessment of you. But welcome me into the altar to holiness, into the
middle of the holy Son of God, Himself, where there is grandeur, where
there is glory. Invite me in there. Invite me into the beautiful
environment of your Being&mdash;the one that nothing and no one can take
away from you, which means it is always there in its pristine beauty and
orderliness and glory.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Welcome me not into a manger, but into the altar to holiness, where
holiness abides in perfect peace.
</div>

What holiness? Your holiness.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
My Kingdom is not of this world because it is in YOU.
</div>

Your kingdom is not of this world. Your kingdom is not of this world you
have thought up. It is not of this world that is made up of definitions
that you have superimposed over the Kingdom of Heaven. Your world is the
Kingdom of Heaven that has been painted over by your definitions and
which is still there exactly as God is Being It, exactly as Creation Is,
in spite of the fact that you&rsquo;ve attempted to cover it up with
very creative and original definitions of your own.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
My Kingdom is not of this world because it is in YOU. And you are of
your Father. Let us join in honoring you, who must remain forever beyond
littleness.
</div>

Oh-h &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Let us join in honoring you&hellip;
</div>

Whatever I say to you about us, you need to take and say about your
brother and you. If I&rsquo;m the way shower, you&rsquo;re the way
shower. Whatever I do, because it reflects the Father&rsquo;s Will, you
will do because it reflects the Father&rsquo;s Will. And because
that&rsquo;s the way things work.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Let us join &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; let you and I join &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; in honoring you, who must remain forever beyond littleness.
</div>

And then you turn to your brother and in behavior, in actions, in ideal,
in intent&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; join in honoring &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; him &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; who must remain forever beyond littleness.

Decide with me, who have decided to abide with you. I will as my Father
wills, knowing His Will is constant, and at peace forever with Itself.
You will be content with nothing BUT His Will.
</div>

You see. That means you will have contentment only with His Will.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You will be content with nothing BUT His Will. Accept no less,
remembering that everything I learned is yours. What my Father loves I
love as He does&hellip;
</div>

Why? Because I&rsquo;m letting God be first. I&rsquo;m not the center of
my attention.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What my Father loves I love as He does, and I can no more accept it as
what it is not than He can. And no more can YOU. When you have learned
to accept what you are, you will make no more gifts to offer to
yourselves, for you will know you are complete, in need of nothing, and
unable to accept ANYTHING for yourself.
</div>

Sound strange?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you will know you are complete, in need of nothing, and unable
to accept ANYTHING for yourself.
</div>

Why? Because in order for you to have the experience of Awakening, in
order for you to have the experience of the return of your sanity,
you&rsquo;ve got to stop doing anything by yourself. You&rsquo;ve got to
stop thinking for yourself, which means you&rsquo;ll find yourself
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; unable to accept ANYTHING for yourself.
</div>

You see. You simply can&rsquo;t help yourself. And you realize that when
you give up being the center of your attention. Now, you&rsquo;re
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; unable to accept ANYTHING for yourself.
</div>

And that doesn&rsquo;t constitute a sad incapacity on your part. Because
in the absence of doing anything for yourself, by yourself, you find
that you are whole, complete. You find and experience the magnitude of
your Being. You find that you are in need of nothing. You are whole.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
But you will gladly give, HAVING received.
</div>

From the experience of wholeness you don&rsquo;t need to get. And from
the standpoint of wholeness, what you see is wholeness. And so, when you
look at your brother from wholeness, you will see your brother&rsquo;s
wholeness and you will make the gift of wholeness to him, allowing him
to abandon his little gifts and to join with you and to abandon the
brothers who are committed to sleeping and dreams. And together you will
Wake up.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you will gladly give, HAVING received. The host of God &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; needs not seek to find anything.
</div>

Wow! I guess that wipes out goals, doesn&rsquo;t it? A brand new way of
being&mdash;being from wholeness.

Remember this is a point where you can very easily slip into letting God
be first, letting God be the center of attention and Waking up. Let your
brother, this week, be the stimulus for that.

I love you. Be ready for, be willing to move with and be the evidence of
transformation.

Okay.

[^1]: T15.3 Littleness versus Magnitude

