---
title: Mar 14, 2009
ref: "T15.3 Littleness versus Magnitude"
alink: "/acim/text/15/chap1503/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

We&rsquo;re really in the middle of a subject that is wonderful:
&ldquo;Waking up, a return to sanity.&rdquo; And I know everyone at this
particular juncture in time, with the world situation as it is, would
love for me to say things to inspire you&mdash;to speak positively, to
put things in words that are assuring and allow you to believe that
everything will be alright&mdash;to raise your spirits.

But even though everything is going to be alright, even though as I
shared last week everyone is faced with transformation, not chaos, not
great problems, just believing that is not enough.

Instead of saying things that are inspiring, I need to talk to you about
the things that take your inspiration away. Because if you don&rsquo;t
recognize the things that will take away your inspiration, you will be
subject to them and you will lack inspiration.

I could speak for an hour and have you floating in heaven, so to speak,
in your mind. But if you don&rsquo;t recognize what takes away your
inspiration, it will be gone. The high I might leave you with will
disappear quickly.

Now, there aren&rsquo;t really a whole lot of things that take your
inspiration away. So it isn&rsquo;t complicated.

Arrogance is what takes your inspiration away and it&rsquo;s the only
thing that will take your inspiration away. Arrogance is the giving of
directions or orders without having authority to do so.

The opposite, the presence of which secures your inspiration, is
humility. And humility is when you are willing to take orders from One
who has authority.

When you&rsquo;re attempting to exercise authority that you don&rsquo;t
have, you set up a situation in which there is immediate negative
feedback&mdash;discouragement, anger, frustration.

You have no authority all by yourself and you never have. If you get
enough people to agree with you and to support you in whatever authority
you might express, you might for awhile seem to be
successful&mdash;inspired, you might say, confident. But that exists
only because of a group of you who have a mutual agreement with each
other, and it isn&rsquo;t a stability that arises out of the way things
work, fundamentally aside from mutual agreements.

Now we ended last week with the sentence:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The host of God needs not seek to find anything.
</div>

The reason being, that the host of God&mdash;meaning that one who is the
place where God is expressing Himself&mdash;that one is whole and does
not need to look for anything, does not need to gain anything, and
therefore, doesn&rsquo;t have to have a capacity to exercise authority,
you see. Wholeness and authority simply don&rsquo;t co-exist.

Humility can be had by choice or through [chuckle] difficult learning
called &ldquo;humiliation.&rdquo;

When any of you have gone to the uttermost length that you can possibly
go in order to exercise authority and be in charge and create a
situation in which there will be peace, because everybody is not
disagreeing with each other, you are experiencing a false peace. And
sooner or later it will collapse. When it collapses, you are going to
feel complete failure. Because after all, you, by your so-called
exercise of authority, were the one holding it together and your holding
it together gave you credibility&mdash;respectability&mdash;and ability
for you to see yourself and think well of yourself and be at peace with
yourself.

So when that crumbles, it&rsquo;s very humiliating because you are faced
with the fact that you couldn&rsquo;t hold it together and therefore,
you hadn&rsquo;t been able to make that security become a universal
absolute which could never change.

Now, where we are in the Course and what we&rsquo;re talking about,
involves your arriving at a point where you willingly abandon authority,
where you willingly consider the possibility that you&rsquo;re not in
charge of anything, where you consider the possibility that in order for
you to actually be sane, you must be unequivocally willing to cooperate
with &ldquo;the way things work.&rdquo; In other words, you must allow
yourself to be the puppet of the way things work&mdash;to be that which
doesn&rsquo;t stand out in any way by virtue of any exertion of
personal, private force, who chooses not to attempt to stand out from
everything and everyone else by virtue of being assertive.

To the ego this is very humiliating. To the divine one that you Are, it
amounts to your setting the ground work for coming back into your right
Mind where you find the way you fit in with God, where you find the way
you fit in with the way things work and by virtue of the experience of
fitting in, coming into the full conscious awareness of and experience
of your universality, your all inclusiveness. The fact that since God
has withheld nothing of what He is from you, you embrace and are
constituted of all that God is&mdash;that you are universal being with
none of what has been created being unavailable to you: Full open
consciousness inclusive of all, infinitely speaking.

Now, continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you are wholly willing to leave salvation to the plan of God, and
unwilling to attempt to grasp for peace yourself, salvation will be
GIVEN you.
</div>

Um-m &hellip; you probably say, &ldquo;Well, if I&rsquo;m wholly willing
to leave salvation to the plan of God&hellip; nice words, but &hellip;
uh &hellip;[chuckle] c&rsquo;mon, what in the heck is the plan of God?
Why don&rsquo;t you, instead of talking about the plan of God and
telling me that if I&rsquo;m willing to leave salvation to the plan of
God, it will be given me, why don&rsquo;t you tell me what it is?&rdquo;

Well, of course you don&rsquo;t know the plan of salvation that God has
because you won&rsquo;t have it until you ask God what it is. You
won&rsquo;t have it until you abandon your arrogance and your attempts
to express authority that you don&rsquo;t have, and become still. Do the
&ldquo;two-step&rdquo; as we&rsquo;ve said, to step back and say,
&ldquo;What is the truth here, Father?&rdquo; You see, join with the
Father instead of being independently authoritative.

God&rsquo;s plan for salvation has been expressed in the words,
&ldquo;Looking into your brother&rsquo;s eyes and remembering
God.&rdquo; I&rsquo;ve expressed it also as looking at anything in your
world and being curious to know what the more of reality is there than
what you&rsquo;re experiencing. In other words, wanting to experience
God there.

But you see, you won&rsquo;t have that experience until you stop and
abandon the definitions you&rsquo;ve given to everything, and have a
completely innocent and pure and uncluttered desire to know the truth.

You&rsquo;ve got to bring your innocence into the process. And when
I&rsquo;m speaking of innocence right now, I&rsquo;m speaking of your
capacity to bring a willingness to know, that isn&rsquo;t cluttered up
with previous concepts, that isn&rsquo;t stuffed with preconceptions and
preferences of yours.

Now, you&rsquo;re supposed to be Awake. You&rsquo;re supposed to be
experiencing your sanity, the full open consciousness as Mind
undifferentiated from God. That&rsquo;s your Birthright. That is what
you&rsquo;re supposed to be experiencing. So it&rsquo;s inevitable that
you will be experiencing that when you do this one terrible ugly thing
called: Abandoning personal authority that you think you have. When
you&rsquo;re willing to be humble without having to go through a process
of humiliation that brings you to your knees, where you are willing to
say, &ldquo;God, I don&rsquo;t have the answer. I need the answer.
I&rsquo;m going to stop trying to create it for myself and I&rsquo;m
going to ask God for help.&rdquo;

You don&rsquo;t have to go through that process of humiliation. But I do
want to say something: If you do go through it, don&rsquo;t resist it
and don&rsquo;t get haughty about it&mdash;embrace it. To be forced by
what you would call circumstances, to abandon the idea that you ought to
be able to control life, is pure wisdom registering with you&mdash;the
wisdom of your being, the wisdom that allows you to come into an
experience of peace and harmony that&rsquo;s not threatened by things
you&rsquo;re afraid of, things that you have determined to be enemies,
things that you have determined you must be in charge of because if
you&rsquo;re not, they will &ldquo;get you!&rdquo;

Humility, whether it&rsquo;s been arrived at voluntarily or through
processes of humiliation, is your Birthright. It&rsquo;s what is utterly
natural to you. It&rsquo;s the state of your being when you&rsquo;ve
abandoned arrogance, when you&rsquo;ve abandoned willfulness, when
you&rsquo;ve abandoned authority that you don&rsquo;t really have, and
you&rsquo;ve been willing to embrace the possibility that in the absence
of that, you are valid, you are valuable, you are the holy Son of God
Himself.

Why am I bringing this up? Because all of you go through your day with
an attempt to have an agenda for it that you bring to bear upon it on
terms that you have determined to be principled or right, or justified,
or whatever. And you, at no point, have really allowed yourself to blend
with the movements, the currents of Creation that are appearing as the
day you are going through, where you&rsquo;re never finding out how you
might fit in to an order that you forgot to provide in your agenda, and
that if you will yield into that order and abandon your agenda, you will
have an experience of harmony, originality, not originality you created
but originality that goes far beyond anything you would have thought
up&mdash;joy, delight&mdash;all in the context of peace that you find
includes you being blessed, your brother being blessed, the other people
on the freeway being blessed in ways that are obvious, but in ways that
you couldn&rsquo;t possibly have caused all by yourself by virtue of
your plan.

Now, humility, although most of you think of it positively, humility is
not really attractive. People who are humble you might identify as
&ldquo;yes-men,&rdquo; &ldquo;toadies,&rdquo; people without integrity
because they can be pushed all over the place &hellip; they cooperate
&hellip; and they cooperate &hellip; and they cooperate. And so, to
find yourself in a position of either willingly or unwillingly being
faced with becoming humble, you find that whatever inspiration you might
have been experiencing fades because there&rsquo;s nothing inspiring to
a &ldquo;go-get-it-ego&rdquo; about abandoning the &ldquo;get-go.&rdquo;
And you must understand this so that your inspiration doesn&rsquo;t
disappear, doesn&rsquo;t fade when you dare to consciously choose to be
humble.

This is important. And it&rsquo;s important in this particular time all
of you are living in because the situation seems to call for
assertiveness&mdash;taking hold of the situation. Well I&rsquo;ll tell
you something: If everyone takes hold of the situation the way
it&rsquo;s been held in the past, there will be no transformation and
there will be further disintegration, if I can put it that way, there
will be further stress and distress. Because what is called for here is
Vision that goes beyond the way things have been done in the past, that
go beyond the mutually agreed upon definitions of what is right and so
on and so forth.

And one of the fundamental reasons that things aren&rsquo;t working is
because the basic premise that has been used is, &ldquo;I will act in a
way that benefits me and that&rsquo;s what life is about.&rdquo; And you
teach others to take that stance relative to themselves. And so then you
end up with everyone serving themselves and only fitting in to whatever
degree that act of fitting in supports they&rsquo;re getting what they
want.

There is no love in it. There is no fundamental premise of fitting
together and of everyone being blessed. And that&rsquo;s the Vision
that&rsquo;s called for now. It&rsquo;s the Vision that&rsquo;s been
called for ever since there have been wise men, who themselves have done
the two-step and have asked &ldquo;What is the truth here?&rdquo;

If you&rsquo;re discouraged, it&rsquo;s because you&rsquo;re looking at
the situation and you&rsquo;re recognizing that you don&rsquo;t have the
answer. And in addition to that, you&rsquo;re thinking, &ldquo;This
problem is too complex&mdash;too great for me to handle, therefore I
can&rsquo;t possibly have the answer.&rdquo; You see, [chuckle]
that&rsquo;s only half of the two-step, that&rsquo;s you stepping back
saying, &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t know the answer.&rdquo; The second half of
the two step is saying, &ldquo;Father, what is the answer?&rdquo;
It&rsquo;s letting God&rsquo;s plan of salvation be revealed to you
because you&rsquo;ve had the gumption to ask, &ldquo;Father, what is
your plan of salvation?&rdquo;&hellip; and then abandoning all
assertiveness on your part so that you are the most wonderful blank
blackboard for God to write upon His truth that&rsquo;s your truth, that
will be the answer and will involve the Vision that is required that
will constitute real transformation that blesses everyone and ultimately
amounts to looking into your brother&rsquo;s eyes and remembering God.

You see, the only reason you don&rsquo;t have the answer is, that you
haven&rsquo;t been willing to abandon an inner urgency within you that
says, &ldquo;You can come up with the answer and you must come up with
the answer because that&rsquo;s what God created you for.&rdquo;
That&rsquo;s your modus operandi but it&rsquo;s something that
can&rsquo;t bear fruit.

When you realize that, it&rsquo;s going to be discouraging, it&rsquo;s
going to take away whatever inspiration you gleaned from a wonderful
talk somebody gave. Unless you realize that, your willingness to become
silent and not assert authority is the only way you can find yourself
fitting in, blending in, being that which is fluid enough to cooperate
with the way things work&mdash;with the way Creation works, with the way
the Kingdom of Heaven moves&mdash;which at the bottom line, constitutes
you coming back into your right Mind, into your sanity again.

So you see, I&rsquo;ve said many things over the years that are
inspiring. And if you want to go back and read them and refresh
yourselves, you&rsquo;re welcome to. But the real key thing right now is
that you need to be able to look at the things that take away your
inspiration and look at them closely enough to see that the reason the
inspiration is fading is because you are upset, because you really are
realizing that you&rsquo;re not in control and you don&rsquo;t really
have the authority to correct the situation all by yourself. And because
of your ego structures, that is not a happy state of affairs.

However, I&rsquo;m pointing out to you that it is an inevitable state of
affairs in the process of Waking up. It is inevitable that you will
arrive at this realization that you don&rsquo;t have the authority,
together with an inspiration to do something totally crazy&mdash;to
abandon your attempt to be authoritative and to become utterly still so
that you become a void, a void that is an invitation to be filled, in
which no little bits of assertiveness are present anywhere&mdash;a void
that is an invitation to be filled that becomes pregnant with the
conscious experience of truth.

You see, again, it&rsquo;s simple. If you want to experience or know
what God&rsquo;s plan for your salvation is, you&rsquo;ve got to stop
trying to figure out what it is. And you&rsquo;ve got to shut up. And
you&rsquo;ve got to be willing to turn to the Father and say,
&ldquo;Father, what is your plan for salvation? What is it I need to
know?&rdquo; And then don&rsquo;t do it as a test, because to whatever
degree you say, &ldquo;Well, I&rsquo;m going to give God 30 days. I
think I can manage to not control things for 30 days without everything
going totally to ruin. And so, I will be very willing for 30 days. I
will be very unassertive for 30 days.&rdquo; But you see, this little
plan that you&rsquo;ve got behind your back is part of what&rsquo;s
supposed to be the void, the emptiness that&rsquo;s the invitation and
it&rsquo;s not empty is it.

I know, people say they&rsquo;d give their right arm to experience
salvation. Maybe you would. But what you need to be willing to give for
your salvation is the last vestiges of any attempt or any intent on your
part to be a self-existent, self-created authority. So that you might be
the presence of pure awareness in which God&rsquo;s thoughts and
God&rsquo;s meanings and truth itself can be illuminated and show you
your right Mind and your Birthright.

Now, I am saying things that could be considered inspiring. But what I
really want you to bring your attention to and what it&rsquo;s really
important to bring your attention to are the times and the places in
your day where inspiration goes out the window and you find yourself
tense, uncomfortable, experiencing an undercurrent of one sort or
another&mdash;where there&rsquo;s lack of inspiration. And notice it!
Because these are the places where you&rsquo;re still holding out for
the exercise of control as though you had authority, and they are
standing in the way of your experiencing your right Mind. And you need
to recognize them so that you say, &ldquo;By damn it, I&rsquo;m not
going to let these things take my inspiration away. I&rsquo;m going to
stop asserting this personal, private authority. I&rsquo;m going to stop
trying to control things myself and I&rsquo;m going to join with the
Father.&rdquo; It&rsquo;s that simple.

And so, instead of letting the absence of inspiration get worse and
worse until you&rsquo;re experiencing utter humiliation, notice it in
it&rsquo;s earlier stages that aren&rsquo;t quite so rugged, so that you
might say about this or that or the other thing that seems to be taking
away your inspiration, &ldquo;Father, what is the truth here? Father, I
don&rsquo;t want to explore my personal potential for coming up with
answers any further. I wish to abandon my independence and join with
You. I would like to put my arm around You and I would like You to put
Your arm around me, so that we might move forward together in harmony
and cooperation. And I will let You fill my mind with the only thing
that could possibly be in my Mind, because I am the host to God. I am
the host to You. And I&rsquo;m going to let myself be the host to You
instead of trying to be something separate and independent all by
myself.&rdquo;

Coming back to the book:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you are wholly willing to leave salvation to the plan of God, and
unwilling to attempt to grasp for peace yourself, salvation will be
GIVEN you.
</div>

Now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; will be GIVEN you.
</div>

&hellip; because it&rsquo;s already yours. You never did stop being what
you ultimately will be or what you were to begin with before you decided
to take this little vacation into orphanland. So, when it said it would
be given you, it means it will be returned to you, it will be
illuminated as having constituted your presence forever and ever, even
though for awhile you chose to close your eyes and forcibly ignore it.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet think not you can substitute your plan for His.
</div>

You see. [Chuckling] Don&rsquo;t keep an ace up your sleeve. Don&rsquo;t
give yourself a backup plan. Don&rsquo;t give yourself a safety, an out
from this experiment in [chuckling] being a puppet, in being that which
fits in.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; think not you can substitute your plan for His. Rather, join
with me in His, that we may release all those who would be bound&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; by virtue of their choice to be independent &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; proclaiming together that the Son of God is host to Him.
</div>

&hellip; meaning God. You see, there&rsquo;s a clue about God&rsquo;s
plan for salvation.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Rather, join with me in His&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; God&rsquo;s plan &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; that we may release all those who would be bound&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; all those who are still choosing to dream dreams, proclaiming
together, you and I together, that the Son of God, every Son of God is
host to God.

You&rsquo;re here to teach your brother the truth. You&rsquo;re here to
be willing to ignore his presentation of himself, to ignore the concepts
he governs himself by that cause him to be bound to an untrue perception
of himself, and instead, be willing to bring to him the clarity of what
is true about him in such a way that makes such sense that he will say,
&ldquo;Wow, I&rsquo;ve been a fool to hold on to this misperception.
Thank you &hellip; thank you for having the patience and taking the time
and bringing with you the clarity of just exactly the perfect words that
allowed me to see the nonsense I was holding myself to. I&rsquo;m going
to let it go.&rdquo;

You see, there&rsquo;s that clue about the Father&rsquo;s plan for your
salvation.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Thus will we let no-one forget what YOU would remember.
</div>

Interesting way to put it, isn&rsquo;t it? We will &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; let no-one forget what YOU would remember.
</div>

When you say, &ldquo;Father, what&rsquo;s the truth here?&rdquo; And the
Father reveals the truth, it is revealed to you so that you can share
it. The clarity you find yourself having, you have for the purpose of
sharing with another.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Thus will we let no-one [else] forget what YOU would remember.
</div>

And as a result what you give you get to keep. You secure it for
yourself because you didn&rsquo;t indulge in further privacy. You
listened. You joined with the Father. You wanted to know the truth and
you were willing to abandon any authority you thought you had in the
process and you shared it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Thus will we let no-one forget what YOU would remember. And thus will
you remember it.
</div>

What you give becomes yours.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Call forth in everyone only the remembrance of God, and of the Heaven
that is in him.
</div>

&hellip; in your brother.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Call forth in everyone only the remembrance of God&hellip;
</div>

Don&rsquo;t join with him in his puny, small minded assessment of
himself. Don&rsquo;t belittle him for it. But provide a Vision that
allows him to see beyond it and recognize that it&rsquo;s not something
he needs to be bound by any longer, that he can choose to abandon it.
That&rsquo;s it.

If someone is behaving as though he is your enemy, don&rsquo;t assign
the label &ldquo;enemy&rdquo; to him. Recognize that he&rsquo;s a
brother misunderstanding himself and misunderstanding you. And then
don&rsquo;t act as an enemy to him, act as a brother. And your
insistence upon behaving as a brother who loves his brother, or a
brother who loves his sister, you will provide by your actions, your
behavior and your words, the assurance that your brother or sister needs
to know that he doesn&rsquo;t or she doesn&rsquo;t have to distrust you
and can be willing to abandon it and feel safe.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Call forth in everyone only the remembrance of God&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning only the remembrance of what is divinely true about
him.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and of the Heaven that is in him. For where you would help your
brother be, there will you think YOU are.
</div>

And that&rsquo;s a fact.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; where you would help your brother be, there will you think YOU
are.
</div>

If you think your brother&rsquo;s a bastard &hellip; if you think
he&rsquo;s lived his life in a way that is unprincipled and harmful and
unkind and hateful and so-on-and-so-forth, and that he behaves this way
because of life circumstances that he went through, that will be where
you think you are. You will see yourself as like him, but having had
better circumstances or been more fortunate than him. But still you were
vulnerable as he was, but you by your own hand and your own intelligence
managed to live your life a little bit better and so you&rsquo;re a
little bit more respectable and you like yourself a little bit more and
your demeaning attitude towards your brother is justified, even though
you are as vulnerable to what he has experienced, as he was.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; where you would help your brother be&hellip;
</div>

See, if you would help your brother be in a state of being a bastard,
who is judgable and who is appropriate to demean &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; where you would help your brother be, there will you think YOU
are.
</div>

You&rsquo;ll think you&rsquo;re there too, but just a little bit more
fortunate for the time being.

So be aware of this. And don&rsquo;t help your brother be where you
don&rsquo;t want to be. Don&rsquo;t help your brother by demonstrating
that he truly is vulnerable to life circumstances, and he truly is
vulnerable to insane thinking, because you&rsquo;ll be teaching the same
thing to yourself about yourself.

That&rsquo;s why you want to know the truth. That&rsquo;s why you want
to abandon your own independent authoritative mental activities, because
you want to stop before you think small-minded thoughts and say,
&ldquo;Father, what&rsquo;s the truth here?&rdquo; &hellip; so that the
truth might fill you, so that you might share that with your brother and
thus help your brother be where you will think you are. See, you
reinforce the truth for both of you that way.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Hear not his call for hell and littleness&hellip;
</div>

Don&rsquo;t let his behavior define him on his small-minded terms to
you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Hear not his call for hell and littleness, but only his call for Heaven
and greatness.
</div>

You know something? Whenever you or your brother says,
&ldquo;Ouch,&rdquo; whenever you or your brother say or express,
&ldquo;I&rsquo;m in pain,&rdquo; you&rsquo;re not declaring your
mortality, you&rsquo;re not declaring your undivine humaneness, you are
expressing a very deep awareness that is absolutely unjust for you to be
in pain. Your &ldquo;ouch&rdquo; or whatever form of voicing your
distress or expressing your distress, is a call for Heaven, is a call
for truth.

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Hear not his call &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your brother&rsquo;s call &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; for hell and littleness, but only &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in what seems to be his call for hell and littleness &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; his call for Heaven and greatness. Forget not that his call is
yours, and answer him with me.
</div>

You see? Don&rsquo;t answer him all by yourself. Don&rsquo;t resort to
your knee-jerk mental reactions. Respond to &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; his call for Heaven and greatness.
</div>

&hellip; that looks like a call for hell and littleness and answer it
with me&mdash;join with me. Do the &ldquo;two-step&rdquo; and ask me or
ask the Father so that you can respond with Us and not in some mutual
agreement with your brother and his current point of view. Join with One
who has the Vision of truth and then respond to your brother.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Forget not that his call is yours, and answer him with me. God&rsquo;s
power is forever on the side of His host&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; which you and your brothers and sisters are.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God&rsquo;s power is forever on the side of His host, for it &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; God&rsquo;s power &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; protects only the peace in which He &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; God &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; dwells.
</div>

God dwells in the peace that is the fundamental context of your being.
And God&rsquo;s power protects it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Lay not littleness before His holy altar&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; God&rsquo;s holy altar &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; which rises above the stars and reaches even to Heaven because
of what is given it.

Lay not littleness before His holy altar&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the altar which is in you, which is the abiding place of
God&rsquo;s love &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; rises above the stars and reaches even to Heaven &hellip;
</div>

This is what you want the experience of. And this is what you do not
want to lose the inspiration to experience, just because you&rsquo;re
faced with an inevitable demand to abandon the very things that made you
feel good about yourself, which were all ego dynamics and didn&rsquo;t
reflect the truth about you and kept you out of your right Mind and not
experiencing your sanity.

Don&rsquo;t let the call for humility be interpreted as justification
for losing your inspiration.

I look forward to being with you all next week.

[^1]: T15.3 Littleness versus Magnitude

