---
title: Mar 28, 2009
ref: "T15.4 Practicing the Holy Instant"
alink: "/acim/text/15/chap1504/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

It&rsquo;s been a couple of weeks since we&rsquo;ve been together and
there&rsquo;s a point that we discussed last time where everyone still
is.

It&rsquo;s this wonderful sentence:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you are wholly willing to leave salvation to the plan of God, and
unwilling to attempt to grasp for peace yourself, salvation will be
GIVEN you.[^1]
</div>

Now, I said everyone is still at that point. That&rsquo;s not through
neglect on anyone&rsquo;s part. It&rsquo;s very simply the point where
all of you will be until you Wake up. It&rsquo;s really the threshold
&hellip; it&rsquo;s the simple threshold.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you are wholly willing to leave salvation to the plan of
God, and unwilling to attempt to grasp for peace yourself, salvation
will be GIVEN you.
</div>

Every moment between now and the moment in which you Wake up, will be
the moment where you can make the choice to be willing to leave
salvation to the plan of God&mdash;the point at which you can decide to
be unwilling to attempt to grasp for peace yourself. At no point is the
&ldquo;process&rdquo; going to get more complicated than that.

Just let that sink in for a moment.

Remember, we spoke a few weeks ago about the fact that it&rsquo;s not
appropriate for you to be the center of your attention, it&rsquo;s
appropriate for God to be the center of your attention. And also, that
it&rsquo;s not appropriate for your problems to be the center of your
attention, but for truth to be the center of your attention.

Now, when you&rsquo;re willing to let God be the center of your
attention, you are allowing yourself to be in a frame of mind in which
you are not bringing forth an agenda of your own&mdash;an agenda for
your salvation, an agenda for your success, an agenda for your health,
an agenda for your safety&mdash;because you&rsquo;re not the center of
your attention.

And why would you have God be the center of your attention? Because God
is where truth is to be found. And truth is what you want to know.
Because when you know the truth you&rsquo;re not experiencing ignorance
any longer, nor are you suffering from ignorance any longer.
You&rsquo;re in your right Mind, with your mind reflecting all that is
true about God&rsquo;s Mind because you&rsquo;ve let God be the center
of your attention and you have invited in the conscious awareness of
truth.

You see, the truth is really simple. But you are all wanting to make it
more complicated. And you are wanting to make it more complicated
because you think that is what will give you credibility&mdash;your
ability to carry out complex tasks, your ability to think in complex
ways. These are means by which you develop in the minds of others a
respectable countenance, a respectable presence &hellip; you think. And
you think that it does that and it&rsquo;s necessary because without
doing it you&rsquo;re not respectable yet&mdash;which is not the truth.
And I&rsquo;m not going to harp on that over and over again tonight.

Now, this new section, the heading is entitled:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*Practicing the Holy Instant*

This course is not beyond IMMEDIATE learning, unless you prefer to
believe that what God wills takes time. And this means only that you
would RATHER delay the recognition that His Will is so.
</div>

Now, if you&rsquo;re not having a problem, you can read that sentence
and you can possibly find it very interesting and stimulating and find a
willingness to contemplate what it means in all its ramifications. But
if you&rsquo;re having a problem [chuckle] and you&rsquo;ve been asking
for help and you&rsquo;re not experiencing the resolution of the problem
yet, then these sentences here are not at all satisfying:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[repeats] This course is not beyond IMMEDIATE learning, unless you
prefer to believe that what God wills takes time &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and you sitting there with your problem that&rsquo;s
unsolved&mdash;a need that&rsquo;s requiring immediate
attention&mdash;and you&rsquo;re not getting an answer even though you
are desiring to have immediate learning. You&rsquo;ve done everything
I&rsquo;ve said. You&rsquo;ve stepped back, you&rsquo;ve said,
&ldquo;Father, what&rsquo;s the truth here?&rdquo; And you&rsquo;ve
listened. And perhaps you have heard, and the need is still
present&mdash;the need is still apparently as aggressive as it was in
the beginning.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This course is not beyond IMMEDIATE learning, unless you prefer to
believe that what God wills takes time.
</div>

&ldquo;What do you mean, unless I prefer to believe? I don&rsquo;t
prefer to believe that what God wills takes time. Why throw that at me
when I&rsquo;ve been sitting here today desiring to know the truth that
heals&mdash;desiring to know the truth that eradicates or neutralizes or
corrects this problem?&rdquo;

And then it continues and says:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And this means only that you would RATHER delay the recognition that His
Will is so.
</div>

That&rsquo;s a real slur if you&rsquo;re in a middle of a problem and
you have been honestly and earnestly desiring to know the truth.

&ldquo;Whatdaya mean? It means only that I would rather delay the
recognition.

&ldquo;I wouldn&rsquo;t rather delay anything!&rdquo;

You know, when we&rsquo;ve talked about small-mindedness and
littleness&mdash;littleness is when you&rsquo;re using your mind for
your purposes without being joined. And when you sit there in a state of
reaction because you haven&rsquo;t yet seen evidence of your faith or
your trust or of your willingness to know the truth, your reacting
constitutes a presenting of littleness&mdash;a reassertion of what? Of
your willfulness!

&ldquo;What do you mean &hellip; I this and I that? What do YOU mean
&hellip; who in the hell do YOU think YOU are? I know who I am. And
because I know who I am I can say, &lsquo;Who the hell do you think you
are?&rsquo; And I can argue with you and I can bitch at you and I can be
frustrated at you &hellip;&rdquo;

You see, all of that is you reverting to littleness right in the face of
your having been willing to abandon privacy and self-authorized
thoughts, so that you might join with the Father because you have been
told. And you have faith that what you have been told is true&mdash;that
if you will let the Father in and if you will abandon your willfulness,
you will see the results of ignorance dissolving, fading, being
corrected, being erased.

Now, I&rsquo;ve brought out before the statement that, &ldquo;You are
neither behind the point of perfection nor advancing toward it. You are
at that point and you must understand yourself therefrom.&rdquo; Now we
can equally say that truth is neither behind the point of perfection nor
advancing toward it. It is at that point and must be understood
therefrom.

So I want to describe something to you here. I want you to imagine that
there are, like, two rooms: One is the room you&rsquo;re in that has the
characteristics of you being an independent thinker&mdash;an authorizer
of thoughts, an authorizer or creator of orderly thoughts. And in this
room you have conflict, you have problems that you have to solve and
you&rsquo;re even glad to have the problems to solve because that gives
you purpose. There&rsquo;s another room in which Reality is going on, in
which truth is available and present to be known.

Now, you all have the tendency to stand in the room where you are a
private authorizer and for you to sort of reach into the other room
where the truth is so that you might get hold of the truth to change the
circumstances in the room you&rsquo;re in.

But the saying doesn&rsquo;t say that. It says, &ldquo;Truth is neither
behind the point of perfection nor advancing toward it.&rdquo; In other
words, it partakes of nothing of the nature of the room of independent
thinking and the conflict and problems that necessarily accompany
independent thinking.

And so you reach for truth to bring it back to the room you&rsquo;re in
so that you can exercise authority. In many ways, this is the way you
approach your healing. It&rsquo;s the way in which you do the two-step.
You step back and stop thinking and you ask the Father, &ldquo;What is
the truth here?&rdquo; so that you think you might be able to have the
truth in your possession and apply it to the situation in the room that
you&rsquo;re standing in.

But truth can&rsquo;t be understood in that room. And so when
you&rsquo;re asking to know the truth, you&rsquo;re asking to have your
mind shift from the room of independent thinking and the conflict always
associated with it, into the room or arena of truth in which truth is
neither behind the point of perfection nor advancing toward it, and
therefore neither are you and the truth that is revealed to you does not
become something to apply to the you that was standing in the other
room.

And that&rsquo;s why the discovery or uncovering of truth is called a
miracle. Because it&rsquo;s a sudden shift of perception: From the room
of independent thinking to the context of truth, to the context of
Reality in which nothing is getting better, in which nothing is having
truth applied to it so it is transformed into something better.

Now, when you are learning about this and when you are learning to use
your mind in this way, meaning not to use it to make something happen,
but to use it to pay attention&mdash;to get out of the way in the sense
of personal self-assertion and to let yourself be filled with the
truth&mdash;when you&rsquo;re learning how to do that so that the fact
that you&rsquo;re not behind the point of perfection and you&rsquo;re
not advancing toward it can register with you, you have to be careful
not to let your old-time thinking come into play that says, &ldquo;Well
this is taking a long time&rdquo; or &ldquo;This isn&rsquo;t
working!&rdquo;

Oh-h, well how do you know it&rsquo;s not working?

You just say, &ldquo;It&rsquo;s not working according to my
timetable!&rdquo;

That&rsquo;s littleness! That&rsquo;s old habits! Those are the thinking
processes that you have used forever and haven&rsquo;t allowed for
healing and transformation to register with you&mdash;for you to find
yourself moved out of the orphanage into the Kingdom of Heaven or from
the room of conflict into the context of the Kingdom of Heaven and
harmony.

Now it says:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This course is not beyond IMMEDIATE learning&hellip;
</div>

Okay &hellip; that&rsquo;s great news. It&rsquo;s wonderful. No argument
there.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This course is not beyond IMMEDIATE learning, unless you prefer to
believe that what God wills takes time.
</div>

Well, where on earth would that idea come from, that God&rsquo;s Will
takes time?

Well it comes from thinking. [chuckling] It comes from using faulty
imagination. And another way in which it comes into play which
isn&rsquo;t a matter of a thought process, is that you don&rsquo;t
really care what God&rsquo;s Will is. Because at the moment all you care
about is your will. And your will may be very profoundly wonderful:
&ldquo;My loved one is in pain and I want my loved to be relieved of
pain. I know that my loved one&rsquo;s Birthright is perfect harmony
and the experience of perfection and by damnit, I&rsquo;m going to think
this absolutely flawless thought with such intensity and such confidence
that it will, because of its truth, transform my loved one&rsquo;s
experience!&rdquo;

Whew! No two-step there. No question, &ldquo;Father, what&rsquo;s
the truth here?&rdquo;

It&rsquo;s an expression of arrogance isn&rsquo;t it. As we discussed
last week, arrogance is the one thing that can take your inspiration
away.

Hey, what is inspiration if it isn&rsquo;t the influx of
truth&mdash;that which happens when you actually say, &ldquo;Father what
is the truth here?&rdquo; &hellip; and you do care what the
Father&rsquo;s Will is&mdash;and you&rsquo;re not caring more about what
your will is no matter how well founded, how well placed or how perfect
and beneficent it is.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This means only that you would RATHER delay the recognition that His
Will &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Father&rsquo;s Will &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is so.
</div>

You&rsquo;re gonna try your will first. Your gonna try to be the best
damned metaphysician&mdash;the best damned spiritual healer you could
be, the clearest channel of the Father&rsquo;s healing power. By damnit
you&rsquo;re going to be the best! &ldquo;I&rsquo;m gonna be the best
&hellip; I&rsquo;m gonna be the best! I&rsquo;m going to apply myself
with the foundation of truth itself to do a holy work.&rdquo;

When you do that, it means only that you would rather delay the
recognition that His Will is so, that God&rsquo;s Will is the only One
that is, the only One that exists, the only One that is embedded in you
as your will, as your purpose which is waiting to be fulfilled when you
yield to it.

But oh-no, you&rsquo;d rather yield to the will you&rsquo;ve imagined
you have instead of the will the Father has placed in you which is His
Will and which you won&rsquo;t discover the fullness of until you forget
about yourself and say, &ldquo;Father, what is your Will?&rdquo; And
invite it in and make room for it by not having any alternative plans
for salvation yourself.

You know, what other plans of salvation might you have?

Oh well, let&rsquo;s see &hellip; Let&rsquo;s say your loved one&rsquo;s
problem is an inconvenient problem. What if your loved one&rsquo;s
problem is getting in the way of something important you have to do.
What if your loved one&rsquo;s problem, which of course, the Course has
taught you is the result of his or hers ignorance which he or she has
brought upon himself or herself, and so therefore it&rsquo;s up to them
to correct it and it&rsquo;s not your problem, really &hellip; you know.
So, &ldquo;I can&rsquo;t let my loved one&rsquo;s problem interfere
&hellip;&rdquo; With what? &ldquo;Taking care of No. 1.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Oh-h &hellip; you know&hellip; if I were going to make my loved
one&rsquo;s problem of primary concern to me because I truly love my
loved one, that would tell everyone else who&rsquo;s expecting to be the
center of my attention, that they aren&rsquo;t the center of my
attention. That my wife or my husband is and that I&rsquo;m willing to
neglect them for my wife or my husband&mdash;my significant other. And I
will lose respect, because by damnit, they expect me to follow through
on whatever I&rsquo;ve promised them I will do, or whatever I have
convinced them I am capable of doing for them so that I might have their
allegiance. In other words, their respect.

So there are strange ways of deciding that what the Father&rsquo;s Will
is, is not important to you. And that you do not really want to know the
truth about your loved one&rsquo;s problem so that your loved one will
experience healing because it will cause you to lose face with others.

Tell me this: If you are going to become so convoluted in your mind (and
you love complexity), before long you&rsquo;re going to be obligated to
many in many different ways because of what you promised this one or
that group or those people. And pretty soon it&rsquo;s going to be hard
to keep straight what you promised to whom and how you&rsquo;re going to
keep up a good front, all as a means ultimately of saying to your loved
one: &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t have a problem that&rsquo;s inconvenient for me.
Don&rsquo;t have a problem that requires me to be with you out of my
devotion to you because I love you. Don&rsquo;t have an inconvenient
problem [chuckle] which would cause me to have to embody the fact that I
don&rsquo;t value you as much as I value everyone else&rsquo;s adoration
or respect or approval!&rdquo;

Now, what I&rsquo;ve been saying &hellip; I&rsquo;ve used a loved one as
the example, but it could be anyone, anyone who&rsquo;s calling upon you
for attention that for one reason or another you don&rsquo;t want to
give because of arrogance that you have that says, &ldquo;I
shouldn&rsquo;t have to do this, you&rsquo;re having a problem at an
inconvenient time. I shouldn&rsquo;t have to bend over backward or put
forth any conscientious effort because right now it&rsquo;s
inappropriate!&rdquo;

Remember, we said last time we read:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Call forth in everyone only the remembrance of God, and of the Heaven
that is in him.
</div>

Well that&rsquo;s great [chuckle] if the call for the remembrance of God
that&rsquo;s occurring doesn&rsquo;t happen to be inconvenient for you.
If it&rsquo;s inconvenient, then you say, &ldquo;I really don&rsquo;t
have the willingness to call forth in you only the remembrance of God
and of the Heaven that is in you.&rdquo;&hellip; selfishness.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Call forth in everyone only the remembrance of God, and of the Heaven
that is in him. For where you would help your brother be, there will you
think YOU are.
</div>

Now here&rsquo;s the key:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Hear not his call for hell and littleness&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; when your brother is voicing his frustration, his pain, his
suffering, he&rsquo;s being unpleasant. He&rsquo;s expressing
littleness, he&rsquo;s expressing fear, he&rsquo;s putting forth a call
for hell and littleness. &ldquo;Feel my pain &hellip; feel my pain
&hellip; hear my pain &hellip; hear my pain &hellip; give your attention
to me &hellip; give your attention to my pain, etc.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Hear not his call for hell and littleness, but only his call for Heaven
and greatness.
</div>

Because you have the means to discern what his behavior actually is. Is
his unpleasant obtuse negatively focused energy a call for hell and
littleness or is it a call for Heaven and greatness?

And can a call for Heaven and greatness really be an inconvenience to
you? Can it happen truly at an inconvenient time? Is there any time that
is not appropriate for you to call forth in your brother only the
remembrance of God? Is there any moment in which it&rsquo;s
inappropriate for you to call forth within you the remembrance of God so
that you can be with your brother consciously in that frame of mind? No.

Well, what if you answer your brother or sister with the truth that you
hear, because you did the two-step, and your brother or sister refuses
to hear you and persists in complaining and stating that the lie is the
truth&mdash;that he has this terminal disease and he is dying and
there&rsquo;s nothing that can be done about it and no matter what you
say it can&rsquo;t be changed, and fights and fights and fights for the
lie.

Well, [chuckling] you know, it was all right the first time you did the
two-step, you know &hellip; it wasn&rsquo;t too inconvenient &hellip;
you were able to take the time. But now your brother is kicking you in
the face so-to-speak and rejecting the gift and saying that, in so many
words, the truth that you&rsquo;re sharing is nonsense and you have
presented nothing that justifies his abandoning his
conviction&mdash;that he has no choice but to suffer and die.

So the question boils down to: At what point does your brother&rsquo;s
need constitute a justifiable inconvenience to you so that you can say,
&ldquo;I cannot help you any further, because I have things to take care
of for myself.&rdquo; At what point is the abandonment of Love, as the
proper use that your mind is to be put to, justifiable? At what point
does fulfilling your function become truly inconvenient and
inappropriate?

It&rsquo;s a good question. Because if there is a time limit, if there
is a point at which it is appropriate for you to withdraw your
willingness to call forth in everyone only the remembrance of God, then
there is a point at which it is appropriate for you to abandon your
function and lose the opportunity for a miracle.

You&rsquo;re neither behind the point of perfection, nor advancing
toward it. You&rsquo;re not in the room of progress, of development, of
becoming better or becoming worse, you are at the point of perfection in
the other room and must understand yourself therefrom&mdash;which means
that when there is a problem to be solved, you must be willing to go
into an arena that doesn&rsquo;t seem to make any sense, because
you&rsquo;re asked to abide by a knowledge of truth that you will find
yourself infilled with without being able to take that truth and use it,
which it is your habit to do.

Everything that goes on in your mind is a thing to be used&mdash;a thing
to be used for your safety, a thing to be used to create
invulnerability, a thing to be used to reduce stress and help remove you
from inconvenient demands so that you might find peace without
resolution. And that&rsquo;s not what it&rsquo;s about.

Now if a brother is behaving negatively and in a harmful way, and if
that brother won&rsquo;t stop no matter how clearly you share with him
the very truth that would allow him to abandon his misunderstanding, if
he insists on behaving in a way that would be harmful, you must, as
I&rsquo;ve said before, do whatever it takes to disallow for the harm to
occur. But you cannot afford to treat the brother as though his problem
is an inconvenience to you that provides a justification for abandoning
your intent to call forth in him only the remembrance of God.

And as I&rsquo;ve said before, if someone is brought into a hospital and
there is a total lack of self-control and he or she would harm those
attending to him, he or she is strapped down so that no harm can be
done, and then care is provided&mdash;so the correction occurs.

Now, I&rsquo;m going to go back to where we began.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This course is not beyond IMMEDIATE learning, unless you prefer to
believe that what God wills takes time. And this means only that you
would RATHER delay the recognition that His Will is so.
</div>

And I&rsquo;ve just gone thought various examples of how you justify a
delay in the recognition that His Will is so, and not yours.

You have many ways of justifying governing yourself and your behavior
towards your brothers according to your will, without violating your
will, without letting your will be modified in any way.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The holy instant is THIS one &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; this instant &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and EVERY one. The one you WANT it to be it IS.
</div>

The instant what? The instant in which immediate learning can occur. The
instant in which a sudden shift in perception&mdash;a miracle&mdash;can
occur.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The holy instant is THIS one and EVERY one. The one you WANT it to be it
IS.
</div>

It&rsquo;s the simple truth. But if you&rsquo;re struggling with
personal authority or personal affront and you&rsquo;re questioning
whether it&rsquo;s still appropriate for you to call forth in your
brother only the remembrance of God, this moment will not be the one in
which the miracle occurs.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The one you WANT it to be it IS. The one you would not have it be is
lost to you.
</div>

It&rsquo;s very simple.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
YOU must decide on when it is. Delay it not.
</div>

And again I want to come back to you when you have been diligently and
devotedly wanting to know the truth&mdash;God&rsquo;s truth&mdash;so
that your brother might be blessed who is in pain or whatever. And you
read it and it says &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
YOU must decide on when it is. Delay it not.
</div>

And you have a reaction, &ldquo;I&rsquo;m not delaying it. I don&rsquo;t
want to delay it. I&rsquo;ve been earnestly and patiently and without
any attempt at coercion to make it happen faster&mdash;being open to the
truth that would heal.

&ldquo;So don&rsquo;t tell me that I must decide on when it is and to
delay it not. I have decided on when it is. And I&rsquo;m not delaying
it. Now is when I want it. Now is when I desire it because I love my
loved-one.&rdquo;

If the correction hasn&rsquo;t occurred, then somewhere you are still
holding out for your will, somewhere you&rsquo;re saving face or
somewhere you&rsquo;re saving your ass, you&rsquo;re not going to bring
it out into the full open center stage. But in some way the call for
your willingness to help uncover the truth is colored by an agenda you
have and a distress that what is happening is a little inconvenient for
you and therefore not appropriate. The simple definition of
arrogance&mdash;the exercise of authority that you don&rsquo;t have.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The holy instant is THIS one and EVERY one. The one you WANT it to be it
IS. The one you would not have it be is lost to you. YOU must decide on
when it is. Delay it not. For beyond the past and future&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; or we could say, separate and apart from the past and future
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; in which you will not find it, it stands in shimmering
readiness for your acceptance.
</div>

What does? Well the truth does. But in this case it&rsquo;s referring to
the learning that the Course makes available and encourages and
nurtures&mdash;learning, growth, you might say, transformation, the
miracle that constitutes the sudden shift of perception where ignorance
is replaced by knowledge or Knowing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For beyond the past and future&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; separate and apart from the past and future &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; in which you will not find it, it stands in shimmering
readiness for your acceptance. Yet you cannot bring it into glad
awareness while you do not want it&hellip;
</div>

&ldquo;Oh, but I do want it. But damnit, it&rsquo;s such inconvenient
timing. And how am I going to deal with these others who were expecting
something from me at the very moment that I&rsquo;m called to be here.
It&rsquo;s not fair.&rdquo; Ewe &hellip; there&rsquo;s all that
littleness again. The private thinking that constitutes the opaqueness
of your mind that doesn&rsquo;t let Reality shine into it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet you cannot bring it into glad awareness while you do not want it,
for it holds the whole release from littleness.

Your practice must therefore rest upon your willingness to let all
&hellip; your willingness to let all littleness go.
</div>

What does that mean, all littleness? Remember, littleness is constituted
of thoughts you are originating in the absence of being joined with the
Father, in the absence of being joined with the Holy Spirit, which is
nothing more than your right Mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The instant in which magnitude will dawn upon you is but as far away as
your DESIRE for it.
</div>

Again, that sentence will make you mad if you think you have been
desiring it and you are frustrated because you haven&rsquo;t seen the
results yet.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The instant in which magnitude will dawn upon you is but as far away as
your DESIRE for it.
</div>

&ldquo;Well, whatdaya mean? I&rsquo;ve had the desire for it all day. It
sure seems to be further aware than my simple desire for it. And
I&rsquo;m pissed off. And it&rsquo;s not fair. Oh, boy.&rdquo; You see,
all of these sentences are expressions of littleness, they are
expressions that don&rsquo;t take into consideration the divine one that
you Are, the one that is neither behind the point of perfection nor
advancing toward it. It doesn&rsquo;t take into consideration that of
you which isn&rsquo;t little and which isn&rsquo;t subject to thoughts
that are not thoughts of God. Now, I don&rsquo;t mean thoughts about
God, but thoughts that God is having.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As long as you desire it not&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what? Magnitude. Magnitude is the opposite of littleness. So
magnitude would be God&rsquo;s thoughts. Magnitude would be that Mind
which you are supposed to let be in you, which is God&rsquo;s.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As long as you desire it &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; magnitude &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; not, and cherish littleness instead&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; as long as you want to throw out all these short sentences that
express your frustration and unfairness and blah, blah, blah.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As long as you desire it not, and cherish littleness instead, by so much
is it far from you. By so much as you want it will you bring it nearer.
</div>

And so you must be careful. You must watch your mind to see how
you&rsquo;re willing to use it. Because you will easily slip back into
cherishing the littleness of mind that is constituted of your asserting
your right to express and believe and base your actions upon the
thoughts you&rsquo;ve made up rather than the thoughts that are
God&rsquo;s thoughts about His creation, which constitute your ability
to see truth in everything. In other words, everything as it truly is.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Think not that you can find salvation in your own way and HAVE it. Give
over EVERY plan that you have made for your salvation in exchange for
God&rsquo;s. His will content you, and there is nothing else that can
bring you peace. For peace is of God, and of no-one beside Him.
</div>

Whew &hellip; the sooner you&rsquo;re willing to consider that any ideas
you have come up with on your own about how things work cannot possibly
be the truth, because you came up with them on your own, as an orphan,
as an independent entity that it&rsquo;s impossible for you to be.

You will make it impossible to experience a miracle. You will make it
impossible for there to be a sudden shift of perception. The fluidity,
the willingness for change will not be present. There will be no
invitation for what? . . that which stands in shimmering readiness for
your acceptance&mdash;Reality as it is, wholeness where disease seemed
to be, beauty where all that you had seen was turmoil and ugliness.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Be humble before Him&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; God &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and yet great IN Him. And value no plan of the ego before the
plan of God. For you leave empty your place in His plan&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you see. Every moment you spend going for the gusto of what you
will to be, you&rsquo;re leaving your place in His plan empty, like a
student in a schoolroom who&rsquo;s daydreaming, and so his presence in
the class is lost to the class.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; value no plan of the ego before the plan of God. For you leave
empty your place in His plan, which you must fulfill if you would join
with me, by your decision to join in any plan BUT His.
</div>

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For you leave empty your place in His plan&hellip;

&hellip; by your decision to join in any plan BUT His.
</div>

I left out a subjunctive clause there for it to be more easily
understood. I&rsquo;ll read it again wholly:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For you leave empty your place in His plan, which you must fulfill if
you would join with me, by your decision to join in any plan BUT His. I
call you to fulfill your holy part in the plan that He has given to the
world for its release from littleness. God would have His host &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; all of you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; abide in perfect freedom. Every allegiance to a plan of
salvation that is apart from Him diminishes the value of His Will for
you in your own minds. And yet it is your mind that IS the host to Him.
</div>

Now, you&rsquo;re not used to letting your mind be host to God. You
either occupy most of the space with your own thoughts about yourself,
or if you have become acquainted with God and you have invited God in,
you still reserve space there for you to be your own independent,
willful presence, accomplishing things that you feel are worthy of being
accomplished without asking God, &ldquo;What&rsquo;s the truth
here?&rdquo;

So, you&rsquo;re not used to thinking in terms of a shift from the room
of independent thinking and the conflict and the surmounting of conflict
that are characteristic of it, for the context or room in which the
experience of truth is available, and from which it is your Birthright
to be experiencing not only truth but your Self.

And so, the call is for you to be willing to do what seems not to make
sense, so that a new sensibility can begin to register and grow and
substantiate itself in your mind. Which means that you must be willing
to call forth in everyone only the remembrance of God no matter how
unpleasant they&rsquo;re being, no matter how resistant they seem to be
to receive the truth that would heal them, no matter how slowly the
healing of pain seems to take, because ultimately if you don&rsquo;t
stay with the desire to know the truth you will abandon the one element
that triggers transformation and you will continue to be stuck in the
status-quo.

You cannot afford to let your mind be distracted from your decision to
let God be the center of your attention, not yourself, and for the truth
to be the center of your attention, not your problems.

[addresses audience] I love you, I love you, I love you, I love you, I
love you, I love you, I love you, and you, I love you, and I love you,
and I love all of you who are watching. And I look forward to being with
you next week.

[^1]: T15.4 Practicing the Holy Instant

