---
title: Apr 12, 2009
ref: "T15.3 Littleness versus Magnitude"
alink: "/acim/text/15/chap1503/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

Well at this point, almost everyone has finished the day of
resurrection, the celebration of the day of resurrection&mdash;but the
day of resurrection of Someone else, Someone else who was providing an
example, not an example of the truth about life in some general way, but
an example of the truth about life about you &hellip; you &hellip; you
&hellip; you &hellip; you &hellip; you &hellip; everyone.

Now we have, for the last few weeks, been reading about the holy
instant&mdash;talking about it&mdash;the instant in which there&rsquo;s
willingness on your part to say &ldquo;yes&rdquo; to what? To abandoning
thinking, to abandoning private thinking and instead saying,
&ldquo;Father, what is the truth here? Father, what is the truth that I
may experience its obviousness and as a result of experiencing its
obviousness, spontaneously embrace and embody it in my actions with my
fellowman and with my world?

The holy instant is your resurrection, if you will. It amounts to the
practice of your holiness. Not you acting holy, but you experiencing the
obviousness of your holiness because you&rsquo;re feeling God&rsquo;s
Presence in you, as you. And you&rsquo;re feeling God&rsquo;s Presence
in you, as you because you&rsquo;re not practicing any other presence,
you&rsquo;re not imagining any other presence called, &ldquo;you&rdquo;
and then behaving in that caricature.

Why have the crucifixion, resurrection and ascension if it had no
practical meaning for each and every one of you today, in any given
moment&mdash;in any given moment that you are willing to choose as the
moment that will be the holy instant&mdash;the one in which you actually
yield, the one in which you actually say, &ldquo;Thy Will be
done.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Our Father, which art in Heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy
Kingdom come, thy Will be done.&rdquo; [^1]

&hellip;&ldquo;thy Will be done.&rdquo; The statement is said often. But
it&rsquo;s very often imagined to be a statement that says, &ldquo;Oh,
Your Will be done unto me &hellip; Your Will be done to me.&rdquo; When
it needs to mean: &ldquo;Thy Will be done through me because I have
abandoned my intent to act on my own for my own reasons, and instead I
want to know what Your Will is. I want You to share It with me so that
the obviousness of the truth of Your Will will cause me to abandon any
interest in any other so-called right to have a different point of view.

You say &ldquo;Thy Will be done&rdquo; because it is your right and your
prerogative to have the Father&rsquo;s Will register with you today,
now, in all of your apparent un-holiness, in all of your apparent
humanness.

So the statement, &ldquo;Thy Will be done&rdquo; is a request for you to
be filled with, today, in the very human here and now, with the
knowledge of truth that is the obviousness of the Father&rsquo;s Will
and the Father&rsquo;s Movement of Being in you&mdash;an experience that
is so obvious that nothing remains in you to imagine that there would be
any value in any other point of view.

So we could say, that since the holy instant is any instant you choose
it to be, the holy instant is any instant that you&rsquo;re willing to
say &ldquo;yes.&rdquo; Then any instant is the potential for your
resurrection. It&rsquo;s just another way of saying, that any instant is
available to you for you to experience your salvation and it&rsquo;s
something actual that you will experience here and now, in what you call
your everyday life, which will of course transform your everyday life.
But here and now is where it will happen and here and now is where you
are to desire it. Here and now is where you are to yield to it with an
expectation of a sudden shift of perception&mdash;a miracle!

Resurrection isn&rsquo;t for holy persons, which therefore would exclude
you. We could say that resurrection is for unholy ones, who, at the
moment, are neglecting to practice un-holiness. I use the word,
&ldquo;neglect&rdquo; quite a bit to illustrate an act you are to engage
in.

I encourage you to engage in the practice of neglect. It&rsquo;s not
hard. It takes no effort. But it does require letting go of things that
you have valued. And I encourage you to do it just on the basis that you
have been told that if you neglect to practice independence, or if you
neglect to think in the void, in the absence, in the silence, the
Father&rsquo;s Will will register with you. The experience of peace will
be yours. The Movement that you would call a feeling that is
love&mdash;divine love&mdash;will not fill you, but will illuminate
itself as the very substance of every aspect of you.

Now those things in and of themselves are justification enough for
neglecting to think or neglecting to practice independence.

You could say that your willingness to be silent is like the willingness
to be in the sepulcher&mdash;in the emptiness of what is considered to
be nowhere&mdash;in which the truth can be illuminated with
transformation occurring. Silence indulged in is a womb of realization,
a womb of transformation, the place in which you can come back into your
right Mind.

Continuing from where we left off from last week:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The necessary condition for the holy instant does NOT require that you
have no thoughts which are not pure. But it DOES require that you have
none that you would KEEP.
</div>

When I was a child, it says, I did childish things. But when I became a
man I put away childish things. A child can have a toy box and in the
toy box will be treasured toys, and also toys that are no longer of
interest. They&rsquo;re there, because they haven&rsquo;t been thrown
out, but they&rsquo;re never played with anymore. There&rsquo;s no
attachment to them. There&rsquo;s no thrill or hit that the child gets
from playing with them.

So the necessary condition for the holy instant does not require that
you have no toys at all, or no toys that are bad, or no toys that are
old, but it does require that you have none that you would keep. It
requires that the toys that you have, you don&rsquo;t let them be
all-important to you. You let them be, and I would say, without
attachment or detachment. You can simply be uninvolved with your toy
box. And if that child, sister or brother comes in and grabs one of the
toys, no fight will ensue, no scrabble, no squabbling will occur because
that&rsquo;s not where the value is being placed.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The necessary condition for the holy instant does NOT require that you
have no thoughts which are not pure.
</div>

It doesn&rsquo;t require that you become ultra holy, that you have
refined yourself to the point of perfection. No. But it does require
that you have none that you would keep. In other words, it requires that
you be willing to let go of all of them or ignore them for a time, like,
a holy instant! [chuckle] Just a little bit of time, just an instant.
And the way you let go of them, as we&rsquo;ve discussed, is to not give
your attention to them, but rather give your attention to becoming
still, abandoning thinking&mdash;what you call
&ldquo;meditating&rdquo;&mdash;and then in the quietness, reach out to
the Holy Spirit or the Father or me. That&rsquo;s all. In doing that,
you are neglecting to do the other.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Innocence &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and this is so important &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Innocence is not of your making.
</div>

It&rsquo;s yours. But you didn&rsquo;t make it. And it&rsquo;s
unalterable. No matter how much you might have ignored it, or how much
you might&rsquo;ve had beliefs to the contrary.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Innocence is not of your making. It is given you the instant you would
HAVE it.
</div>

Now the fact is, that it has been given you even though you&rsquo;re not
experiencing it. But it will be experienced the instant you would have
it. The instant you stop blocking the experience of your innocence, your
innocence will register with you.

Well, how do you stop blocking your innocence? By not indulging in
practicing guilt, by not constantly reiterating to yourself that you are
guilty, by not constantly telling yourself that the problems you are
having you deserve to have because you did this or you did that or you
did the other thing that you are guilty of and that you must pay a
penalty for.

See, you must neglect to employ guilt in order to have the experience of
your innocence infill you, causing a sudden shift of
perception&mdash;healing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is given you the instant you would HAVE it. Yet it would not be
Atonement if there were no NEED for Atonement.
</div>

If you did not so significantly believe that you are guilty for this,
that or the other thing, there would be no call for anything to reveal
to you your innocence&mdash;called &ldquo;Atonement.&rdquo; There would
be no reason for a holy instant. Salvation would be a meaningless word
because that which is whole&mdash;he who is the host of God and knows
it&mdash;is not in need of salvation and is not experiencing anything
less than salvation.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You will not be able to accept perfect communication as long as you
would HIDE it from yourself.
</div>

Now this perfect communication is when you and your brother are relating
to each other without hesitation, without shields, without armor,
without techniques of self-defense being employed. It&rsquo;s you and
your brother sharing unreservedly&mdash;sharing completely, totally.

And again, I will tell you that the word that describes that action, is
peace. And it is security. And it is stability. And it is
invulnerability, what would be called: Omnipotence.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You will not be able to accept perfect communication &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; which is the result of undefended sharing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; as long as you would HIDE it from yourself. For what you would
hide IS hidden from you.
</div>

Every act of self-defense that you bring into play, any act of defense
against your brother, hides from you your oneness with your brother. It
hides from you his holiness and your holiness, which as brothers you
share because you have a common Father Whom you are host to. You hide
that from yourself. The very thing which you think keeps you safe from
each other, keeps you from knowing each other along with the fact that
no defense is needed because there is perfect safety in the shared
experience of who and what you Are already.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In your practice, then&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; practice of what? Practice of the holy instant.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In your practice, then, try only to be vigilant against deception, and
seek not to protect the thoughts you would keep unto yourself.
</div>

Well, how do you be vigilant against deception? Easy, it&rsquo;s the
answer to, &ldquo;What is the practice of deception?&rdquo; The practice
of deception is thinking by yourself&mdash;thinking on your own.

So&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In your practice, then, try only to be vigilant against
deception&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the practice of thinking all by yourself &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and seek not to protect the thoughts &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that you would think all by yourself, that &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you would keep unto yourself.
</div>

The private thoughts you would have that you would keep private within
you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Let the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s purity shine them away, and bring all your
awareness to the readiness for purity He offers you.
</div>

Be willing to do this radical thing of abandoning your right to think
your own thoughts, of neglecting to practice it and to become silent and
listen, desiring to know the truth.

I want you to wish to experience everything through my Vision, which is
my gift to you from God. In order for that to happen you have to be
willing to be consciously being with me, consciously aware that I am
with you and that you are with me and that there&rsquo;s no value in our
not being together, and then valuing my perspective, my Vision, because
my Vision is the Father&rsquo;s perspective, which I give to you from
Him, and which, as I&rsquo;ve said before, when you let it in, you will
share with your brothers.

But of course, we&rsquo;re talking there about sharing, we&rsquo;re not
talking about privacy. We&rsquo;re actually talking about standing in
the experience of awe and exclaiming your awe in whatever words pour
forth, because you can do no otherwise, because it&rsquo;s so obvious
that there&rsquo;s nothing else to be saying or being or doing.

Your resurrection, your Easter, will be when you say &ldquo;yes&rdquo;
in any particular instant, to abandoning all the little acts of privacy,
all the little attitudes of privacy and opening up with total
defenselessness to the Meaning of your brother or to the Meaning of the
flower or the Meaning of the table as God is Being each one of those.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Let the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s purity shine them away, and bring all your
awareness to the readiness for purity He offers you.
</div>

And I&rsquo;m going to add: A purity that is your very self, a holiness
that is your very holiness, the truth about you that is the very truth
about you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Thus will He make you ready to acknowledge that you ARE host to God, and
hostage to no-one and nothing.
</div>

Be willing &hellip; be willing to dare to believe that every time you
have a thought all by yourself, every time you have a judgment, every
time you have an evaluation, every time you come to a conclusion based
upon what you already know, you have become hostage to those thoughts!
Why? Because that&rsquo;s not your function&mdash;your function is to be
host to God. Your function is to allow the Father&rsquo;s Will&mdash;the
conscious awareness of truth, the obviousness of truth to constitute
your Mind&mdash;so that that is what you are expressing, so that is what
promotes your every act. That&rsquo;s your freedom. That&rsquo;s your
wholeness. That&rsquo;s your holiness.

When you forfeit those, so that you might have a thought of your own, a
determination that you&rsquo;ve come up with based upon your best
judgments, you have become hostage to those thoughts because they
absolutely bind you to an unconsciousness of your Birthright and of your
holiness. They take you away from your conscious awareness of truth and
incarcerate you in a finite mentality and hold you hostage&mdash;hold
you hostage because you always serve those who hold you as hostage
&hellip; you always serve what holds you as hostage.

Easter &hellip; Easter Sunday currently is happening for a sliver of
your globe, Hawaii and the West Coast. For everyone else, Easter was
yesterday. But for everyone else, Easter is the instant you&rsquo;re in,
right now. And right now is an acceptable moment for your resurrection.
It&rsquo;s an acceptable moment to yield to the Father&rsquo;s Will as
an actual thing and not just a wonderful, spiritual idea.

Now, the next Section is called:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*The Holy Instant and Special Relationships*
</div>

And I&rsquo;m going to set the tone right here by saying that special
relationships are usury relationships. Special relationships are
relationships that are used to get, at the expense of one of the
parties, which means the other party [chuckling] which ultimately means
both parties. Both parties are being abused. The reason being, that
there&rsquo;s no sharing going on, there&rsquo;s no undefended sharing.

Now, so far we&rsquo;ve basically been talking about the holy instant
and what it amounts to, which is your willingness to become still,
invite the Father&rsquo;s Will into your awareness and yield to It.

This is all well and good, but the fact is, that you want the
Father&rsquo;s Will to infill you regarding everything you have
ignorance about&mdash;so that true understanding, the experience of the
truth of everything is your conscious experience and you&rsquo;re no
longer ignorant of it.

Now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The holy instant is the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s most useful learning device
for teaching you love&rsquo;s meaning. For its purpose is to suspend
judgment ENTIRELY.
</div>

Suspending judgment is the equivalent of neglecting to practice
independence, neglecting to engage in private thinking, un-joined
thinking&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; its purpose is to suspend judgment ENTIRELY.
</div>

Well, there you go &hellip; how can you do it ENTIRELY? It&rsquo;s like
how can you root out every false thought, every negative thought? You
don&rsquo;t have to. All you have to do is to neglect to employ any of
them. You suspend judgment entirely by abandoning judgment in favor of
enquiring of the Father or the Holy Spirit, &ldquo;What is the truth
here? I want to join with You in order to have You share with me Your
perspective. And I&rsquo;m going to stop holding on to the right to
having private thoughts of my own in addition to the ones You share with
me. I care to be Family. I care to be part of Family. I care to be
embraced by All and I care to embrace All and I don&rsquo;t know how to
do it. And I&rsquo;m asking You to show me. And I yield &hellip; I will
yield to the obviousness of the truth You share with me.&rdquo;
That&rsquo;s how you suspend judgment ENTIRELY.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Judgment always rests on the past, for past experience is the basis on
which you judge. Judgment becomes impossible without the past, for
without it you do not understand anything.
</div>

So you see, [chuckling] the trap is thinking that you understand
something at any point. The moment you think you understand something,
you&rsquo;ve lost the Vision&mdash;you&rsquo;re not looking with
innocent eyes&mdash;you&rsquo;re not seeing the, &ldquo;Behold, I make
all things new.&rdquo;[^3] &ldquo;Behold, I make all things new &hellip; I
make all things new &hellip; I make all things new.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Hey, it looks like it&rsquo;s the same old glass to me. Looks
like it&rsquo;s the same old water that was there five minutes ago in
it.&rdquo; But wait a minute &hellip; the fact is, &ldquo;Behold I make
all things new &hellip; &ldquo;I make all things new &hellip; I make all
things new.&rdquo; There is nothing about that glass or that water that
is old. The Father is being it, Creation is being it right now &hellip;
right now &hellip; right now &hellip; right now &hellip; it&rsquo;s
brand new.

You don&rsquo;t understand what you haven&rsquo;t experienced. So stop
trying to understand. And let me make this clear: When you become still
and you desire to know the truth and truth is revealed and it is obvious
to you, what is obvious to you doesn&rsquo;t become understanding.
Understanding is about past things. You cannot understand something now.
You can be with it and experience its obviousness, but you will [make a]
mistake if you take what is obvious and add it to your memory as a
definition of a thing that will always be what it is&mdash;and now you
can explore it and examine it and study it and come to conclusions about
it. No!

The obviousness of truth is the obviousness of, for lack of better
words, living Love, divine life. It&rsquo;s a fluid thing, it&rsquo;s
not static. And so you will always find yourself knowing the truth,
experiencing the obviousness of the divinity of Creation. And it will
not be something you accumulate as knowledge to hold and to refer to and
to base future actions upon. Because you will be making a shift into,
for lack of better words, basing your actions on the obviousness of the
truth of things in the holy instant, in the now of conscious awareness.

Being from this vantage point is a constant source of delight. But when
you take the obviousness of truth and you capture it and you understand
it, the delight is gone. And that&rsquo;s basically what you&rsquo;re
living in and what I&rsquo;m inviting you to abandon and come out from.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Judgment becomes impossible without the past, for without it you do not
understand anything. You would make no attempt to judge, because it
would be quite apparent to you that you do not know what anything MEANS.
You are afraid of this because you believe that, WITHOUT the ego, all
would be chaos.
</div>

You see the ego is that imagined presence that has come to understand
[chuckling] what everything means. And without this capacity to
understand what everything means&mdash;that&rsquo;s called the
ego&mdash;the belief is that everything would be chaos. Yet I assure you
that without the ego, all would be Love. All would be a singularity, an
infinite singularity, living, moving Love: the nature and substance of
every idea&mdash;I didn&rsquo;t say every thought&mdash;every idea, or
carefully we could say, every thought of God.

You see, the result of resurrection is the movement into the
singularity, the obviousness of the singularity of Love relative to
everything. It is something to be greatly desired, but not a thing to
desire endlessly, although it&rsquo;s unobtainable. It is a thing to
desire enough to bring you to a point of neglecting to do what blocks
the experience of it. And what blocks the experience of it, in one form
or another, is nothing more than the chatter that goes on in your mind,
which amounts to static, which when what causes it is abandoned, leaves
you in a pristine quietness of the Mind of God, which is your Mind. And
in that quietness, all that characterizes the Mind of God will register
with you and transform you and cause you to see everything with fresh
eyes and promote your ongoing being without your attempting to say,
&ldquo;I understand.&rdquo;

Instead of saying, &ldquo;I understand,&rdquo; and accumulating your
understanding, you will say, &ldquo;It&rsquo;s obvious and I am curious
&hellip; I am open-endedly curious to experience the &lsquo;Behold I
make all things new,&rsquo; which is the Movement of God in me, because
I am the host of God. And my only function is to let the Movement of God
in me constitute my undistorted experience of Reality.&rdquo;

This is the wonderful truth. And although we can talk about the nature
of the human mind&mdash;the independent ego&mdash;in very complex terms,
there&rsquo;s a very simple way to become free of it. And that is to
neglect to employ it. Turn your attention to listening instead of
thinking. It&rsquo;s simple. I continue to recommend it to every single
one of you.

And I wish you, each of you, a very happy Easter. And I look forward to
being with you next week.

[^1]: Mathew 6:9
[^2]: T15.3 Littleness versus Magnitude
[^3]: Revelations 21:5

