---
title: Apr 25, 2009
ref: "T15.5 The Holy Instant and Special Relationships"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

Many years ago now, in some of my first conversations with Paul, I told
him three things:

All of you is always present, all of you is always available, and all of
you is always functioning.

Now I did not mean that all of what Paul is as a human being or as a
body, is always present, available and functioning, I meant to convey to
him that as the manifestation of God, that he, being all that God was
Being right there where he was, was present, available and functioning.
It was my intent to get Paul to think beyond whatever his present
concepts of himself were at that time, whatever definitions he was
employing to &ldquo;understand&rdquo; himself.

And so I say to each one of you: All of you, all of what you are
infinitely speaking is always present. No part of it is ever absent. And
all of you&mdash;all of what you are&mdash;is always functioning. Every
minute part, you might say, of you is always functioning. Why? Because,
God [chuckle] is the Being of every minute aspect of you.

And so, where you might be thinking that some of your organs
aren&rsquo;t functioning as they should be, or this part of your life
isn&rsquo;t functioning the way it should be, and you&rsquo;re believing
that, you need to bring your attention back to the fact that not only is
all of you present, but all of you is always functioning. That&rsquo;s,
you could say, the ultimate truth but it&rsquo;s also the primitive
truth. So, it&rsquo;s not an ultimate truth you&rsquo;re going to move
toward, it&rsquo;s an ultimate truth&mdash;that is, the primitive truth
that you&rsquo;re going to come back into&mdash;the conscious
realization and experience of. And what will specifically help you come
back into that realization is the awareness that all of you&mdash;all of
what you infinitely are&mdash;is always functioning and it&rsquo;s
always available to you &hellip; it&rsquo;s always available to you.

This morning, something rather significant and important was discovered
to be lost. There was some distress associated with the fact that it
seemed to be lost. Thinking it through, it was reasonable to think that
it could have inadvertently been taken. The circumstances were such that
someone could mistakenly have picked it up, blah &hellip; blah &hellip;
blah &hellip; and tension began to mount. And Paul remembered what I
said, &ldquo;All of you is always present,&rdquo; not lost, not out of
sight. &ldquo;All of you is always available,&rdquo; not unavailable.
And &ldquo;All of you is always functioning.&rdquo;

Now, every week, most every week we get together and we read the Course
and we talk about principles, we talk about truth, and to a great
degree, what is talked about is used as a salve to give you peace in
your mind. But, although that&rsquo;s alright, it&rsquo;s not the
purpose. The purpose is, so that when situations arise, as they rose
this morning, and Paul or you is tempted to become upset&mdash;upset to
the point of distraction&mdash;that&rsquo;s exactly the moment to say,
&ldquo;What is the truth here?&rdquo; or as Paul said, &ldquo;Where am
I?&rdquo; meaning, where was this aspect of himself that seemed to be
very important but lost and therefore, a potential for difficulty.

&ldquo;Where am I?&rdquo;

You go into the malls and you&rsquo;ll see a map in various places of
the mall and then there&rsquo;s a little circle with an arrow that says,
&ldquo;You are here.&rdquo;

Paul says, &ldquo;Where am I?&rdquo; meaning, the part of me that is
this thing that can&rsquo;t seem to be found expecting to have the
experience, I&rsquo;ll say, of the arrow saying, &ldquo;You are
here.&rdquo; In order to do this, Paul had to override his tendency to
engage in reaction, when reaction seemed to be called for.

You&rsquo;re all faced with situations that you say call for reaction.
And those are the times that what the Course is talking about should get
beyond platitudes so that you actually take the time&mdash;when
you&rsquo;re not inclined to take the time and when you don&rsquo;t feel
emotionally capable of choosing for your peace because of the
emergency&mdash;to actually take the time and choose for your peace
because you don&rsquo;t choose to continue to operate in the arena of
ignorance. You want everything that we&rsquo;re discussing to come to
life.

Now, Paul did this &hellip; walked through the house, he made a couple
of stops we&rsquo;ll say, looking, and walked to a most unlikely place
&hellip; opened up a bag and there was the object&mdash;there was the
thing that was lost. He had not had a picture in his mind. He did not
beforehand have a realization, &ldquo;I know where it is.&rdquo; But he
allowed himself to be willing to know where it was and his behavior
uncovered the fact that all of him was present, all of him was always
available and all of him, including his capacity to know where it was,
was always functioning.

Now, this ties in with the subject of the holy instant that we&rsquo;ve
been talking about. Because the holy instant is the place in which the
act of saying &ldquo;Yes&rdquo; to God occurs. The holy instant is the
place in which you decide to abandon your independence and therefore,
your isolation. Isolation from what? The all of you that&rsquo;s always
present, the all of you that&rsquo;s always functioning, the all of you
that&rsquo;s always available, which is your conscious experience of
Being when you let God&rsquo;s Perspective in, in favor of or instead of
your own private perspective that you have been holding onto prior to
this holy instant in which the act of saying &ldquo;Yes&rdquo; occurred.

The holy instant, or we&rsquo;ll say, the result of using any instant
that is available to you for the purpose of saying &ldquo;Yes&rdquo; to
God and yielding to the Father&rsquo;s Perspective&mdash;at the expense
of your own private personal one&mdash;opens you up to the actual
experience of wholeness. And I mean by that, infinite wholeness, where
in fact you could say, while you are on planet Earth, with a capacity of
knowing what that part of you that&rsquo;s called the opposite side of
planet Earth, is available to you.

You also have available to you, for lack of better words, the conscious
experience of everything in the cosmos. And you also have available to
you ever presently and on-goingly, the conscious experience of every
single brother and sister, every single aspect of Creation Itself. Now
get this: With the conscious awareness that just as you are being able
to be responsive to all of Creation, you are able to experience all of
Creation responding to you simultaneously so that it is an infinite
conscious experience of Being, in which no aspect of Creation is
unavailable to you, is not functioning for you, and is not present.

You are neither behind the point of perfection nor advancing toward it.
You are at that point and must understand yourself therefrom.

What&rsquo;s the point of perfection? What is this place that
you&rsquo;re not behind or advancing toward? It&rsquo;s the conscious
experience of truth, the unisolated, infinitely involved conscious
experience of the truth of everything and the conscious experience of
everything conveying its truth to you &hellip; as I said, an infinite
involvement&mdash;nothing private whatsoever, not even a feint
fascination with what it might be like to have a private thought or to
have a private place.

The holy instant is that instant in which you move out of the orphanage
and abandon the claim to orphanhood.

Now last week we read that:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The holy instant is the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s most useful learning device
for teaching you love&rsquo;s meaning.[^1]
</div>

And today we&rsquo;re starting out with:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The past is the EGO&rsquo;s chief learning device, for it is in the past
that you learned to define your own needs, and acquired methods for
meeting them &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; on your own terms.
</div>

You made up your needs and then you made up the terms for meeting them.
And all of this was going on in a supposed state of independence and
isolation from your Source, so that you were, and still are, unconscious
of your divine origin and nature, ignorant of the fact that all of you
is actually infinite and is always present and is always functioning and
is always available.

Now if you are not joined, if you are not experiencing a conscious union
with your Guide or the Holy Spirit or the Father, then you are held
hostage&mdash;you are blinded, you are caused by this definition
you&rsquo;ve applied to yourself as an ego, from experiencing what you
divinely Are. And although you&rsquo;re not that unhappy about the
situation you are in, it&rsquo;s not your Birthright. And all of you
are, as it&rsquo;s been said, living lives of quiet desperation but
managing to find meaning in it.

Now I want you to take a look at something perhaps a bit maudlin and
unpleasant: When a loved one dies&mdash;passes on&mdash;it is a sad
experience. And you may be very grateful to have pictures, audio
recordings, maybe even some videos that this loved one is on that you
can turn on and play and be reminded of that one&rsquo;s meaningfulness
and have your sadness assuaged somewhat.

You know, quite some time ago in Europe, a woman, after her husband
passed on, had him stuffed by a taxidermist and posed in a comfortable
position on his favorite chair where he used to sit every
night&mdash;every evening with her. And for her it was most meaningful
because she didn&rsquo;t have to feel lost as much and she could sit
there and talk with him as though he was hearing. And you can imagine
that she might say, &ldquo;Well, it&rsquo;s better than nothing.&rdquo;

When you go into the past, it means you&rsquo;re going into memory. When
you&rsquo;re functioning out of memory, you&rsquo;re not present with
the real thing.

What the Course is teaching, what I am alerting you all to, is the fact
that you have available to you a means of Being that doesn&rsquo;t
involve living in your memory every single day unconscious of Reality.
And that you don&rsquo;t have to say, &ldquo;Well, what I&rsquo;ve got
is better than nothing. Every day above ground is better than being
underground.&rdquo; I want you to grasp that such an attitude about your
living is as sad as this woman&rsquo;s situation who had her husband
stuffed and &ldquo;enjoyed his presence&rdquo; for the remainder of her
days.

It is sad. It&rsquo;s not something to find meaning in, at least
it&rsquo;s no longer something to find meaning in. I&rsquo;m telling you
that you have an experience of Being that is unlike what you have been
experiencing. And what it requires to experience that, is exactly what
was required of Paul today when this item was lost that was needed and
he had to take the time to go against his conditioned
responses&mdash;all of which were drawn from memory.

&ldquo;Oh-h, I&rsquo;ve never been able to find anything successfully
before and I&rsquo;m going to need this before it can possibly be found
&hellip;&rdquo; and on and on.

All of these thoughts come from memory. And all of these thoughts say,
&ldquo;All of me is not always present and all of me is not always
available and I have to settle for that.&rdquo; His conditioned
thinking, meaning his memory banks, his past, said, &ldquo;There is no
justification for peace. There is no justification for reaching for
something that you can&rsquo;t possibly know the location of. You never
had it in your hand in the first place. You are not the one who
misplaced it. You don&rsquo;t know where it&rsquo;s usually kept
&hellip;&rdquo; and on and on and on. You see, all of this thinking, all
of this is thinking based upon past, based upon memory.

What was required was for Paul to stand in the face of all of that
conditioning, all of that memorization and do something that his memory
banks didn&rsquo;t tell him was possible for him, but which I&rsquo;ve
been telling him was possible. He had to reach for what, based on his
memory he had no means of knowing [chuckle] as though he actually had
the capacity to do it.

And all of you have to go through your day and find wonderful
opportunities which might seem like moments of distress, to step beyond,
to lean beyond what your memory says is possible, so that you might get
beyond the distress. And today, in the here and the now, in your very
so-called human life, you can experience the fact that all of you is
always present, available and functioning.

The holy instant is the place in which the act of saying
&ldquo;Yes&rdquo; occurs, &ldquo;Yes&rdquo; to God, meaning, saying,
&ldquo;Yes God, illuminate me with the knowing that it is my Birthright
to be experiencing, because You have put Your Mind in me, because You
have given all that You are to me, as me, along with all the rest of
Creation. And I want to have the experience that is available to me when
I honor my Source, because my Source is not only the Source of my
existence but the condition of my existence and therefore, I do not wish
to deny it in any way, shape or form any longer. And so I desire to be
in-filled with the infinite Wholeness of my Being&mdash;the conscious
experience of the infinite Wholeness of my Being&mdash;no longer holding
onto any so-called right to think for myself, have opinions of my own,
have perspectives of my own, have goals of my own because they put me
into a world where life is stuffed and positioned in apparently pleasant
ways &hellip; when everything is emptiness. I don&rsquo;t want to be
satisfied living life in half-assed way. I don&rsquo;t want to be
satisfied with that which is sad and actually unfulfilled and
unfulfilling.&rdquo;

You see, the holy instant is humungous in its meaning and its impact.

Don&rsquo;t go looking for the holy instant &hellip; like, &ldquo;Oh,
maybe it&rsquo;ll be this afternoon.&rdquo; or, &ldquo;I know, when I
lay down to go to bed tonight, the holy instant is going to happen
&hellip;&rdquo; No.

The holy instant happens when you say &ldquo;Yes&rdquo; to the
impossible, when you say &ldquo;Yes&rdquo; to having the experience of
the fact that all of you is always present, and all of you is always
available, so that a lost article is found, not as a magical
manipulation of a material world, but rather as a unified experience of
Mind finding nothing of its infinite conscious experience hidden from
itself, no longer experiencing any form of insanity, but perfect
clarity, perfect infinite clarity.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The past is the EGO&rsquo;S chief learning device&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; memory banks [chuckle] &hellip; oh-h &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; for it is in the past that you learned to define your own
needs, and acquired methods for meeting them on your own terms &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; with a lot of satisfaction and bravado in most cases, even if
it was quiet and undisclosed to everyone else.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
We said before that to limit love to PART of the Sonship is to bring
guilt into your relationships, and thus make them unreal.
</div>

Well, we&rsquo;re talking about special relationships in this section.
Special Relationships: &ldquo;This one is really special to me &hellip;
and that one&rsquo;s a little bit of a heartache and a problem for me
&hellip; and I embrace this one fully &hellip; and that one, I embrace
cautiously &hellip; and I withhold some of myself and some of my
willingness to love, from them &hellip;&rdquo;

WOW! Do you see that that attitude is an absolute denial of, &ldquo;All
of me is always present, all of me is always available, and all of me is
always functioning?&rdquo;

If those three things are true, then Wholeness is the fact. If Wholeness
is the fact, it&rsquo;s the fact about absolutely every aspect of
anything you&rsquo;re experiencing. It means that all of it is of the
nature and character of God, because God is the Source and the condition
of existence, the Source and condition of you and the Source and
condition of that aspect of you that you call your brother.

When you are denying what you Are, when you are denying that you are a
Son or Daughter, and rather that you&rsquo;re an orphan&mdash;an
independent agent&mdash;we&rsquo;ve talked about the fact that
immediately guilt and fear come into play because you are attempting to
behave in a way that you cannot possibly behave because you cannot, due
to your divinity, be unconscious of who you Are successfully without
dissonance, fear and guilt.

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
We said before that to limit love to PART of the Sonship &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; to break the infinite allness of you up into parts and treat it
differently&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
is to bring guilt into your relationships&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and also fear &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and thus make them unreal.
</div>

What kind of a relationship was that dear lady having with her
&ldquo;stuffed husband?&rdquo; An unreal relationship, right? No matter
how satisfying, it wasn&rsquo;t a real relationship. Why? Because
although she was able to be conscious of and respond to him, he
wasn&rsquo;t in that chair, there, able to be conscious of and respond
to her. And that&rsquo;s part of the characteristic of Wholeness. The
conscious experience of Being is you being able to respond to all of
Creation infinitely and having the experience of the fact that all of
Creation infinitely responds to you as well. It&rsquo;s a two-way
street. It&rsquo;s an involvement of infinite proportions.

And that&rsquo;s the difference between operating from memory,
independent and un-joined&mdash;because that&rsquo;s where you are in
memory when you&rsquo;re independent and un-joined&mdash;and being
joined and abandoning your right to experience the very sad state of
being that is the result of denying your Birthright and your holiness.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you seek to separate out certain aspects of the totality, and look to
them to meet your imagined needs, you are attempting to use separation
to SAVE you.
</div>

[sigh] Sad, isn&rsquo;t it. We don&rsquo;t have to say much more about
it than that. It&rsquo;s a sad thing to be living in unreal relationship
as though it were actual. It&rsquo;s sad and it&rsquo;s maudlin.

Do I say this to disturb you? No. But I want you to see that whatever
reasons you think you have for being happy not being awake, living your
life every day the way you tend to from memory, you have an alternative
to that that&rsquo;s radiant and joyous, and most of all, conscious in
which mutuality really occurs because involvement really occurs. And you
have a right to this. It&rsquo;s your Birthright and you need to be
reaching for it even though, Paul reaching for it this morning, did it
in the face of arguments that said it was impossible.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you are attempting to use separation to SAVE you. How, then,
could guilt NOT enter? For separation &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; independence &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; IS the source of guilt&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and as I&rsquo;ve said, fear &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and to appeal to it for salvation is to believe you are alone.
</div>

Sad again.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To be alone IS to be guilty.
</div>

To claim independence is to initiate an experience of guilt and fear,
which will last until you abandon your so-called right to be
independent.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For to experience yourself as alone is to deny the Oneness of the Father
and His Son, and thus to attack reality.
</div>

The holy instant is that instant in which you give permission, you give
invitation to and permission for God to infill you because you&rsquo;re
no longer going to hold yourself apart. And instead of you being the
center of your attention, you are saying you want God to be the center
of your attention, which is, at the bottom line, the way you let your
right Mind back into you so that you are able to exist consciously,
instead of unconscious in your memory.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You cannot love parts of reality and understand what love means.
</div>

If you think that all of you is not always present and all of you is not
always available, you have Reality broken up into parts. Paul was not
experiencing what Love means when he was upset this morning because a
very important item couldn&rsquo;t be found. It couldn&rsquo;t be found
because why? Because he thought at that moment he was just an
independent mind. A human being at a loss and without the mental
capacity to figure it out because the item had never been in his hand to
do anything with or to bring about a result that he might be able to
logically figure out, you see. So he was really at a loss if he thought
he was a person, if he thought he was an ego, if he was trying to be
independent and solve the problem because it was important.

No. When you all get into these kinds of positions, you immediately feel
like the direness of the situation calls for you to tear apart the house
&hellip; to actually go and look in every sofa &hellip; or underneath
every bed &hellip; or move things around, turn them upside down, empty
the drawers &hellip; do something &hellip; do something &hellip; do
something! And just by the shear search without overlooking anything,
you&rsquo;re bound to find it.

Well, what if the thing you&rsquo;re looking for is a pencil
you&rsquo;ve slipped over your ear?

When you&rsquo;re trying to be an independent agent, you cannot
understand what love means.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You cannot love parts of reality and understand what love means. If you
would love unlike to God, Who KNOWS no special love, how CAN you
understand it?
</div>

If Paul had tried to turn the house upside down and mechanically do what
would logically tell him would uncover the lost item, he would never
have understood what love means. But he didn&rsquo;t. And he found that
what love means is, that all of you is always present and all of you is
always available, and all of you is always functioning&mdash;none of
it&rsquo;s ever lost, none of it is ever absent. It&rsquo;s the
experience of being whole and having the evidence of the Wholeness, so
there&rsquo;s no suggestion of lack, no suggestion of anything that
takes away from the experience of joy&mdash;that takes away from the
conscious experience that Being is Itself the evidence of being loved.

Amazing, eh?

Being is the evidence Itself of being loved. And when you move into the
holy instant, when you allow yourself to be at the point of
perfection&mdash;not behind it or advancing toward it and letting your
Wholeness be revealed to you&mdash;it&rsquo;s the experience of the
absence of fear. It&rsquo;s the experience of perfect peace. It&rsquo;s,
as I said, the experience of being whole. It is the experience of Love
&hellip; of being loved.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To believe that SPECIAL relationships, with SPECIAL love, can offer you
salvation is the belief that separation IS salvation.
</div>

Wouldn&rsquo;t you have to say that that dear lady sitting with her
&ldquo;stuffed husband&rdquo; was an example of a special relationship?
She created it. She wanted something she didn&rsquo;t think she could
have and it was better than nothing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To believe that SPECIAL relationships, with SPECIAL love, can offer you
salvation is the belief that separation IS salvation. For it is the
complete EQUALITY of the Atonement &hellip;

For it is the complete EQUALITY of the Atonement in which
salvation lies.

&hellip; It is the complete EQUALITY of the Atonement in
which salvation lies.
</div>

All of you is always present. All of you is always available. All of you
is always functioning. That&rsquo;s complete equality. No more, no less.
No more given, nothing withheld. Perfect peace. Perfect balance. Perfect
harmony. Nothing present that dims the illumination of God&rsquo;s Love
that brings forth Creation, that of which there is to be conscious of
with the experience of it being all there is of you and all there is of
everything.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
How can you decide that special aspects of the Sonship can give you more
than others?
</div>

Ho-ho &hellip; well, it&rsquo;s easy! You all have imaginations and you
use your imaginations and you&rsquo;ll believe anything you want to make
up if you can get somebody to join you and confirm it. But it
doesn&rsquo;t make it true.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The PAST has taught you this. Yet the holy instant teaches you it is not
so.
</div>

And you want to know something? The holy instant doesn&rsquo;t teach you
that it isn&rsquo;t so. The holy instant reveals what the truth is that
is so full of Meaning because it&rsquo;s the conscious experience of all
that God is Being, that whatever your previous concept was becomes so
meaningless that you wouldn&rsquo;t hold on to it and you don&rsquo;t
even have time to criticize yourself for holding such a concept because
you are so clearly aware of and experiencing the truth which is engaging
you fully in a response of joy.

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the holy instant teaches you it is not so.
</div>

And the experience of being taught that it isn&rsquo;t so is the joy
that causes your sad experience, your maudlin experience to become
totally meaningless because it&rsquo;s been replaced with the conscious
experience of truth. You see?

You are not to be the center of your attention, God is. Your problems
are not to be the center of your attention, truth is. And when you take
the first step of letting God be the center of your attention because
you&rsquo;re leaning into the omnipresence of You instead of holding on
to your dearly believed limits, you become conscious of the truth.
That&rsquo;s the Gift. That&rsquo;s the step that the Father takes. You
don&rsquo;t have to take the final step, the Father takes the final
step.

The holy instant is a BIG Meaning.

As I said last time, it does represent and embody Easter for you. And I
encourage you this week, when you feel discouraged, to press for the
impossible. Remember, all of you is always present, all of you is always
available and all of you is always functioning.

So, this should be encouraging. None of you can possibly end up being
stuffed and put in a chair. Because all of you is always functioning
including the dear man whose wife thought she had stuffed him and whom
she now knows [chuckle] is not her belief because she had the experience
of him once again.

Now, let this coming week be instants of your willingness to say
&ldquo;Yes&rdquo; to God and to neglect to engage fear and doubt. And
instead of engaging fear and doubt, let there be quietness in you with a
desire for it to be filled with the truth. Press for it. Persist.

And I look forward to being with you next week.

[^1]: T15.5 The Holy Instant and Special Relationships

