---
title: May 9, 2009
ref: "T15.5 The Holy Relationship and Special Relationships"
alink: "/acim/text/15/chap1505/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

Believe it or not, what we&rsquo;ve been discussing and what we&rsquo;re
reading about is really the essence of simplicity because it takes no
effort, it takes no practiced skill, it takes no understanding, it
doesn&rsquo;t rely upon logic.

At the bottom line, the holy instant&mdash;that moment in which you say
&ldquo;Yes&rdquo; to God&mdash;is a moment when you step into an
incapacity to understand, but a capacity to Know.

Now the Course itself says that it cannot teach the meaning of love. But
the Course is setting your feet and your attention in the direction of
the Teacher that can teach you the meaning of love. And that Teacher is
not yourself. That Teacher is not the one you think you are. That
Teacher is not the mental skill-sets that you have created and acquired
and utilized and used as a means of defining yourself.

Last week I spoke about the fact that Paul had discovered something was
missing&mdash;something which was needed&mdash;and he literally had no
means of knowing where it was. And it became necessary for him, with my
Guidance, to let go of the fact that he didn&rsquo;t know and
couldn&rsquo;t know where it was&mdash;to let that be of no consequence
because all of him is always present, all of him is always functioning,
and all of him is always available.

Now that required him to go into a place where he had no capacity of any
sort that he was familiar with&mdash;no skill that he was familiar with,
and he had to lean into not knowing and not having any means of
understanding through an excellent intellectual use of his mind.

Anyone who&rsquo;s been a student of truth, let&rsquo;s say, for very
long, has found himself or herself frustrated because he or she thought
more progress should have occurred or more capacity to heal should be
available&mdash;or this, that or the other thing. Expectations were not
met, healing was not occurring.

Now I&rsquo;m going to tell you that the reason each of you arrives at
that point is because you&rsquo;re at a threshold&mdash;not a threshold
of failure, but a threshold of leaning into, willingly, an unknown
capacity, a capacity that you&rsquo;re not presently familiar with even
though it is an inherent part of you.

When you do this, it will always be relative to yourself or relative to
someone else or relative to something else, where you&rsquo;re having to
lean into a capacity to Know about yourself, someone else, or something
else that you haven&rsquo;t experienced before.

In the act of doing that and not abandoning that act because it seems to
be occurring slowly, and your ego wants to be frustrated, that will
cause you to arrive at the point of the influx of truth, the influx of
Knowing, the influx of the Father&rsquo;s Perspective, the influx of
your right Mind. It will happen. When it happens, you will find yourself
Knowing of your wholeness. You will find yourself experiencing your
peace and you will know that it is an immovable peace, that the peace of
your Being truly isn&rsquo;t capable of being flustered or jangled and
you will know what being loved means.

Now, when you know what being loved means because you&rsquo;re no longer
shielded from your experience of your Father, of your Source, by your
will, you immediately, in that place of innocence, treat your brother
differently, see your brother differently with the Father&rsquo;s
Vision.  And that constitutes the extension of something. What do you
suppose it is? It&rsquo;s Love. It&rsquo;s the thing the Course
can&rsquo;t teach you the meaning of. But it is what the Course can help
bring you to the point of allowing to happen in you.

Literally, when you come to the place of not-knowing, when you come to
the place of a feeling of incapacity even though there is an apparent
demand being made for you to have a capacity, you are at the point of
discovering the meaning of love.

What is it that constitutes being an orphan? What is it that constitutes
the dream, as it&rsquo;s been called? What is it that constitutes your
being unconscious of the truth?

It is, that you don&rsquo;t know how to love.

And so I say this so that you might understand that what we&rsquo;re
moving toward here and what I am urging you to allow, is not greater
intellectual understanding or greater mental capacity, but it is the
abandonment of aggressive, self-assertive willfulness so that in its
absence, love might infill you. Because love is what is missing from the
equation, love is what is absent in the orphan.

Now you can say with a sense of relief, &ldquo;I am so glad it
doesn&rsquo;t require great mental capacity on my part. I am so glad to
know that all it requires is for me to be innocent enough, un-willful
enough, at peace enough within myself to relax.&rdquo; So that what?
&ldquo;So that I might be able to love.&rdquo;

Now whether any of you truly knows what love is in all of its fullness,
you do have some comprehension of love, you have just been misusing it.
And so, when I say that the threshold of Awakening which you find
yourself at when you&rsquo;re willing to become still and get into your
peace where fear and guilt are absent, you are simply allowing Something
that you already somewhat comprehend to become substantiated more fully
within you. And it&rsquo;s a capacity to be love. I didn&rsquo;t say,
&ldquo;loving.&rdquo; Because loving is something each of you has
calculated a definition of. And the definition is different under
different circumstances in different situations with different people.

When you come to the impasse&mdash;the void, the emptiness, the
incapacity where you tend to become frustrated&mdash;it&rsquo;s just a
time to say, &ldquo;Oh, here is a moment in which I am primed for an
influx of a capacity to be love.&rdquo; Love is un-willful. Love is not
self-seeking. Love is not self-protective. Love is not self-centered.
Love is not any of the things you associate with your daily life and
your sense of yourself currently.

Love is an extension. Love is embracing. Love is not judgmental. Love is
bringing innocence into the moment and into your relationships. Love is
the absence of every skill you&rsquo;ve ever used to keep yourself safe,
even skills of kindness, kindness that doesn&rsquo;t arise out of a
natural inclination to be in harmony with the way things work, but
because it will keep you safe. That isn&rsquo;t love.

The orphan&mdash;you, when you feel as though you are a separate
independent self with a God-given capacity to do things on your own and
so on&mdash;that is a sense of self that you are going to let go of.
That is a sense of self you will not bring forward with you because
everything about it is directed to your safety. Which means that every
act you engage in is a defense against a world that in one way or
another, you feel is hostile toward you or will be, or is potentially,
and therefore, you must hold it at bay with diligence and vigilance. And
this is not the singularity out of which real harmony arises and which
is the very essence of every aspect of Creation.

Now, continuing in the book from where we left off:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Because of guilt, ALL special relationships have some elements of fear
in them.[^1]
</div>

Well of course they do because guilt and fear always go together, or
fear and guilt always go together.  Special relationships are
relationships you have with others or with things that are a result of
your not really being connected with others or with things, but instead
you are connected with your concept of who that other one is, or what
that thing is. And as a result, although you seem to have interactions,
it&rsquo;s not a real relationship. And it&rsquo;s amazing if there is
any real resemblance of harmony that occurs.

Special relationships are relationships where those involved are not
really connecting with each other. Like the woman and her
&ldquo;stuffed&rdquo; husband.[^2] There&rsquo;s no love present.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Because of guilt, ALL special relationships have some elements of fear
in them.
</div>

And if you are not experiencing your oneness with your Father, and are
not experiencing your Sonship, but are instead, experiencing yourself as
an independent authoritative entity, there will be guilt and fear in
every aspect of your experience because relationships are all
you&rsquo;re confronted with. Even if it&rsquo;s how far you are from
the wall. That&rsquo;s a relationship between you and the wall.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Because of guilt, ALL special relationships have some elements of fear
in them.
</div>

And if guilt is present, all relationships are special relationships.

Now that could be depressing. Or, you could say, &ldquo;Wow! That means
that every single aspect of my day, every single relationship I&rsquo;m
in is an opportunity to have a new experience, one in which I&rsquo;m
not blinded by what I think of that person or what I think that thing
is. And in the innocence of my perception, I have the opportunity to
have insight, to have Revelation, to have an influx of the
Father&rsquo;s perspective which it is my Birthright to be
experiencing.&rdquo;

So every moment of every day, and every single thing in every moment of
every day is humongously pregnant with the opportunity for new Vision
which I am encouraging all of you to be more diligent in your desire to
have the experience of.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Because of guilt, ALL special relationships have some elements of fear
in them. And this is why they shift and change so frequently. They are
not based on changeless love alone. And love, where fear has entered,
cannot be depended on because it is not perfect.
</div>

You might say that your willingness to be present with a thing or an
individual, with innocent perception&mdash;not bringing into that moment
with them any memory, any past experience you&rsquo;ve had with them or
any previous definitions of those things that have been provided to
you&mdash;you are the place where the act of love is occurring. And
that&rsquo;s why a sudden shift of perception can occur.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In His function as Interpreter of what you have made, the Holy Spirit
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that which is nothing more than your right Mind &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; USES special relationships, which YOU have chosen to support
the ego, as a learning experience which points to truth.
</div>

Now, it does this if you care to enquire of that which is nothing more
than your right Mind&mdash;to enquire of the Holy Spirit, &ldquo;What is
the truth here? What is the truth about this thing? What is the truth
about this individual? I am enquiring &hellip; I am being willing to be
an empty vessel, an empty mind which is capable of accepting something
new.&rdquo;

When you do that, the Holy Spirit is able to perform its function. Your
right Mind is able to perform its function relative to you who thinks
you have some other kind of mind that can be used in some other kind of
way. And the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s function&mdash;your right Mind&rsquo;s
function&mdash;is to bring that part of you which thinks it has its own
independent capacity to be conscious, back into the full conscious
awareness of what It is: The Son or Daughter of God, the offspring, the
expression, the current living expression of a current living God. And
to make it relevant, this means your capacity to be present with your
brother or with anything, as Love.

Love isn&rsquo;t a skill. Love is your nature, your divine nature. And
it is present and it functions so that you can be aware of it when
you&rsquo;re not preoccupied with your definitions of love, which are to
treat everybody in a way that will please them so that they will be nice
to you and not hurt you. And also make you rich and respected and great!
&hellip;and every other good private specialness that you might be able to
think up.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In His function as Interpreter of what you have made, the Holy Spirit
USES special relationships, which YOU have chosen to support the ego, as
a learning experience which points to truth.
</div>

&hellip; points to truth &hellip; points to truth? No. Points your
attention to the truth so the truth registers with you as an experience,
as an experience of being loved because it is an experience of knowing
that you&rsquo;re not responsible for yourself, you didn&rsquo;t create
yourself, and That which did, is still taking care of you by creating
you now &hellip; now &hellip; now &hellip; now &hellip; now &hellip; now
&hellip; now, as fresh as God is in every moment, you Are.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Under His teaching&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; EVERY relationship becomes a lesson in &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what? The only thing it could be a lesson in &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; love.
</div>

Because that&rsquo;s the only thing you&rsquo;re not familiar with. Very
simply, the meaning of the word orphan is, &ldquo;absent of love.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Oh, but I&rsquo;d rather do it myself &hellip; I&rsquo;d rather
do it my way. God gave me the right to be on my own!&rdquo;

Not much embrace in that is there. Not much extension in that is there.
Not much involvement in that is there. Not much unity.

But you know, if you have one part of infinity, if you have one small
part of Creation, we&rsquo;ll say, that is holding itself apart from all
of Creation, when it can&rsquo;t actually become separated from all
Creation, what do you have? You have a great state of tension. You have
what you could call, &ldquo;war.&rdquo; You have some part of infinite
Creation standing against all of the rest of Creation in an arrogant
attempt to be something on its own.

There is no love in that because there is no involvement. There is no
relationship in that is there.

So, is it becoming clearer that what we&rsquo;re talking about when we
speak of Awakening&mdash;of Waking up, of coming back into your right
Mind, that we are simply talking about letting love re-emerge in you as
your actual nature, which it never stopped being?

Well, I suppose you could say that you can understand that that might be
simpler than ultimately having to try to figure everything all by
yourself. But, when it comes right down to it and you&rsquo;re in the
moment of need and you&rsquo;re up against it and you don&rsquo;t know
what to do and you don&rsquo;t seem to have a capacity to do anything,
and yet you&rsquo;re called upon to have a capacity in that moment, you
could say, &ldquo;Well, letting love be me isn&rsquo;t that easy either.
I still can&rsquo;t do it.&rdquo;

No, you can&rsquo;t do it because you think you can&rsquo;t do it and
you don&rsquo;t remember that it&rsquo;s your nature. And so it does
seem as though you&rsquo;re being asked to do the impossible.  But
you&rsquo;re not. And you are going to have to be diligent and vigilant
in that moment of impasse so that you don&rsquo;t abandon the impasse
and you abide there as you slip out of your unbelief into the capacity
you have that goes beyond your belief.

Now remember something else: You&rsquo;re not doing this all by
yourself. The Holy Spirit&mdash;not something foreign to you or
a-far-off, but that which is nothing more than your right Mind, your
ever-present sanity&mdash;is standing with you because it is intent upon
bringing you back into your sanity.

It&rsquo;s function is to reunite this part of yourself that
you&rsquo;re trying to be independent from the rest of yourself, to
abandon its goal so that all of what you Are may reunite and experience
the integrity and unity that never was successfully affected or changed.

That&rsquo;s the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s purpose.

And &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Under His teaching, EVERY relationship becomes a lesson in love.
</div>

Because lessons in love are the way you walk out of the orphanage. Not
lessons in greater capacity to think, not lessons in greater capacity to
avail yourself and access your memory banks more quickly, more
successfully. No, it&rsquo;s your capacity to not know. It&rsquo;s your
capacity to be without compulsively attempting to be in charge.

Why? Why a compulsive intent to be in charge? You think it&rsquo;s
because that&rsquo;s the way you stay safe. But when you abandon it,
your eternal and infinite integrity, unity is obvious to you. Safety
isn&rsquo;t even a word, because Being is unalterably forever perfect,
forever the Movement of Creation that is perfect, with no threat to it
whatsoever.

Now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit knows no-one is special. Yet He also perceives that you
have MADE special relationships, which He would purify, and not let you
destroy.
</div>

Now I&rsquo;ve said before, that no matter what you think this world and
universe is, all you are ever confronted with is the Kingdom of Heaven.
You&rsquo;re misinterpreting it, but you are not going to go anywhere
else to arrive in the conscious experience of Heaven. And so you need to
be willing to allow yourself to be present in what you call &ldquo;the
here and the now&rdquo;&mdash;in what you have defined as a material
world and universe&mdash;so that you may, in the abandoning of your
current definitions, be available in the here and the now where the
Kingdom of Heaven is the only thing going on, to experience it as what
it is, instead of what you believed it was.

Well, likewise, the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; perceives that you have MADE special relationships, which He
would purify, and not let you destroy.
</div>

See, I won&rsquo;t let you abandon this world and universe in your
effort to Wake up and reach the Kingdom of Heaven, because this world
and universe is the Kingdom of Heaven misperceived. And the Holy Spirit
would purify your relationships and not let you destroy them, because
relationships are real.

You&rsquo;re never going to rise above relationships, because
relationships are real. And no matter what awful use you might be
putting relationships to, it is something divine that you&rsquo;re
putting to an awful use. It is something real that you are ignorantly
misusing. And so the Holy Spirit will not let you abandon them, or step
outside of them, or get beyond them, or rise above them.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; He would purify [them], and not let you destroy [them].
</div>

Because that&rsquo;s where salvation lies.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
However unholy the reason why you made them may be, He can translate
them into holiness by removing as much fear as you will let Him.
</div>

That which is nothing more than your right Mind has as its purpose the
reduction and removal of fear. Why? Because when fear goes guilt goes.
They&rsquo;re inseparable partners.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
However unholy the reason why you made them may be&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; referring to relationships &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; can translate them into holiness by removing as much fear as
you will let Him. You can place any relationship under His care, and be
sure that it will not result in pain, if you offer Him your willingness
to have it serve no need but His.
</div>

In other words, you can turn things over to the Holy Spirit and expect
to have no pain when you&rsquo;re willing to abandon the purpose you
have applied to a relationship and wished to experience only the purpose
the Holy Spirit would put that relationship to.

Thy will be done. Yield &hellip; yield &hellip; yield &hellip; yield
what? Yield the willfulness. Yield the assertiveness that you use
exclusively for self-protection. And as long as you are self-protecting
yourself, you are shielding yourself from something else. And the
allness and unity of Creation seems to become divided by the boundary
you are imaginatively creating.

Yield &hellip; it&rsquo;s so hard to do because you think your salvation
&hellip; your safety, your ultimate breakthrough into ultimate safety,
comes from your asserting yourself against a hostile world, a hostile
environment. You&rsquo;ve got to abandon that use of relationships in
favor of the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s, because the fact is that all of the
relationships you have had, no matter how good they have been, have
occurred in the context of self-protection&mdash;which means a lack of
trust, which means a presence of fear. And that&rsquo;s not the purpose
of relationships, and that&rsquo;s not your Birthright. That&rsquo;s not
what you were meant to be experiencing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
All the guilt in it &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in the relationships you have created.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
All the guilt in it arises from YOUR use of it. All the love from His.
</div>

That&rsquo;s the difference. The way you use relationships involves
guilt and fear. But when you let the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s Purpose guide
you in your relationships, you will move into that holy instant, you
will move into that silence where you have set aside your intent to do
things your way for your reasons. And in that absence of willfulness,
love can infill you, love can register with you&mdash;the love which is
your nature and always has been will reregister with you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Do not, then, be afraid to let go your imagined needs&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning, needs for safety, needs for wealth, need for success,
need for respect.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Do not, then, be afraid to let go your imagined needs, which would
destroy the relationship. Your ONLY need is His.
</div>

Your only need is the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s. Well, what is the Holy
Spirit&rsquo;s need? Being nothing more than your right Mind, it has a
need for all of what you Are to come back into integrity, to come back
into cohesive conscious wholeness.

At the moment, the need of the Holy Spirit&mdash;which is nothing more
than your right Mind&mdash;is for sanity to return to all that It is,
which includes this little bundle of willfulness that&rsquo;s trying to
be something all by itself and enters into every relationship during the
day on the basis of keeping itself safe, or is securing it&rsquo;s
future against the chaos which is inevitable [chuckle] because life and
being is polarized. It&rsquo;s necessary.

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Any relationship which you would substitute for another has not been
offered to the Holy Spirit for His use.
</div>

Something doesn&rsquo;t work out well with this one, so you go to this
one to try to have a happy relationship or get what it is you need. And
so, you substitute this one for that one. Well, did you ask of the Holy
Spirit regarding the first one, &ldquo;What is the truth here?&rdquo;
Did you desire to go into the void, to go into your apparent incapacity
to see the truth about that brother and lean into it with diligence and
vigilance?

And if you didn&rsquo;t, and now you&rsquo;re going to substitute this
relationship over here, are you going to say, &ldquo;Holy Spirit what is
the truth here?&rdquo; and use this as an opportunity, like you could
have used the first one or any other circumstance or object or person as
the means of shutting up and becoming silent and realizing that the
thing that&rsquo;s missing from the moment is one thing:
Love&mdash;which you don&rsquo;t have the foggiest notion of how to
obtain or employ, but which you know ultimately, you&rsquo;re going to
have to access like waking yourself up out of a dream at night, out of a
nightmare.

It takes diligence in the dream to rouse yourself. And it isn&rsquo;t
always comfortable when you&rsquo;re having the dream to bring forth
that much energy to actually rouse yourself from the dream so that you
might wake up and find out that you were afraid of nothing, because it
was all imaginary.

The one thing that&rsquo;s missing is love. And the only way to have it
reemerge is to bring some diligence to it, in spite of your frustration
and your impatience and the apparent call for you to be able somehow by
yourself to assert yourself in the name of a divine purpose so that
something good can happen, so that a correction can occur. That&rsquo;s
just a repeat of everything you&rsquo;ve done. And there&rsquo;s no love
in it.

You might say, &ldquo;Well, I&rsquo;m fighting for correction here
because I care about that person, or I care about that situation, or I
care about that thing.&rdquo; No, you&rsquo;re really doing it so that
you won&rsquo;t have to look at yourself after the fact and say,
&ldquo;I failed.&rdquo; It&rsquo;s still, at the bottom line,
self-serving. And as long as it is self-serving, there is no love. And
if love is still absent, there will be no correction and there will be
no healing and there will be no transformation&mdash;love will not be
extended and felt and love will not be felt by you. As long as love is
still absent, you&rsquo;re still in the orphanage.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There IS no substitute for love.
</div>

You hear that?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There IS no substitute for love.
</div>

Now hear this: As long as you&rsquo;ve been dreaming dreams, you have
been practicing the idea that there is a substitute for love. And
you&rsquo;ve been out to prove it by determining things for yourself, by
teaching other people to determine things for themselves. And then by
influencing other people so that they&rsquo;ll behave and not endanger
you, because you know you&rsquo;re vulnerable and you know you can be
threatened and you know that ultimately you can be caused to cease to
exist.

This is not the arena of healing or transformation or Awakening. And it
is an exact example of insanity.

This book&rsquo;s a very long book&mdash;lot of words, a lot of complex
ideas. But at the bottom line, they&rsquo;re all aimed at getting rid of
the one little missing thing: Love&mdash;the one thing that will be
missing as long as you insist upon being an orphan and being p-r-o-u-d
of it.

You know all about being orphans. You&rsquo;ve developed a lot of skill.
And you&rsquo;re respectability comes from the skill you have employed
at being an orphan well. So when it comes to letting love back in, which
requires you to yield to something other than personal skill, it does
feel like giving up your identity.

But I&rsquo;m telling you that you have an identity far more meaningful
than what you&rsquo;re presently experiencing. And it will come forth
and register with you when you value the void, the holy instant, into
which you&rsquo;re not bringing the past, and therefore are being
present with innocent eyes, with an innocent mind, the essential element
in order for a sudden shift of perception&mdash;a miracle to occur. And
that&rsquo;s the point.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you would attempt to substitute one aspect of love for another, you
have placed LESS value on one and MORE on the other. You have not only
SEPARATED them, but you have also judged against BOTH.
</div>

If you judge for this one, you judge against that one. But then in a
minute later, and you judge for this one because the circumstance is
different, you&rsquo;ve judged against that one &hellip; so fickle. Love
is unvarying.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet you had judged against yourself first, or you would never have
imagined that you needed them as they were not &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; these things that you judge for and against and jump back and
forth from. Yes, of course you&rsquo;ve judged yourself first, because
you&rsquo;ve taken the role of orphan and fought for it &hellip; guilt
and fear immediately present, unavoidable as long as you continue. So
you&rsquo;ve judged yourself before you judged anything else.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Unless you had seen yourself as WITHOUT love, you could not have judged
them so like you in lack.
</div>

Do you see, that as long as you abandon your Birthright and claim
orphanhood and fight for it, you cause all of Creation to be seen
through the lens of lack, and as the source of, or call for, fear and
guilt and every act of self-protection that you can possibly bring into
play.

We&rsquo;re talking about abandoning those things which are the blocks
to love&mdash;not fighting them, not overcoming them&mdash;abandoning
them in favor of allowing yourself the time it takes to be in the
uncomfortable position of not knowing and desiring to have a Knowing
that your personal, private little mind hasn&rsquo;t been responsible
for in any way, because you want to know the truth, God&rsquo;s truth.

We&rsquo;re talking about Waking up. We&rsquo;re talking about
God&rsquo;s truth infilling you. Why? So that you might be able to be
more real and more meaningful right here in the Kingdom of Heaven than
you have been when you&rsquo;ve been defining it otherwise and behaving
on the basis of that definition.

So you&rsquo;re still going to be here and everything is still going to
be here, but in new terms that were the original terms. Not complicated,
but something that requires diligence and vigilance in the face of the
discomfort of not knowing &hellip; yet.

Persist &hellip; but not through the use of will. Persist in the desire
to have love replace &hellip; to have love replace the means you have
been using in the belief that those things were essential to your
survival.

I love you very much &hellip; all of you. And I want love to no longer
be absent in your experience. And I look forward to being with you next
week.

[^1]: T15.5 The Holy Relationship and Special Relationships
[^2]: Story from Apr 25, 2009 transcript

