---
title: May 31, 2009
ref: "T15.5 The Holy Relationship and Special Relationships"
alink: "/acim/text/15/chap1505/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

Here&rsquo;s a question for you: What circumstances contribute to the
experience of the holy instant? Solitude? Quietude? Reverence,
as in the sanctuary where others might be present but there is an
attitude of spirituality and reverence? The absence of animosity?
The presence of respect being accorded to you?

Well, there&rsquo;s only one circumstance that contributes to the
experience of the holy instant. And that circumstance is a mind whose
attention is on God, saying &ldquo;Yes&rdquo; to God. This circumstance,
present&mdash;no matter what is going on around you&mdash;is all it
takes to experience the holy instant.

A holy instant is when you say &ldquo;Yes&rdquo; to God because you want
to know God&rsquo;s Perspective &hellip; about what? About whatever the
circumstances are that you&rsquo;re in the middle of. Why? Because the
holy instant is about relationships.

And so, if you&rsquo;re going to experience the holy instant,
you&rsquo;re going to have to be present in the middle of relationships.
It&rsquo;s that simple. And it doesn&rsquo;t matter what they are. Why?
Because no matter how you&rsquo;re defining them, if there are
circumstances going on at all, they are circumstances God is Being. And
therefore, the very circumstances that you might be defining
inappropriately or incorrectly, are the very circumstances that hold
your salvation in them because they hold the Presence of God being all
that is really occurring right there.

You can experience a holy instant on a battlefield. You can experience a
holy instant on the freeway where there&rsquo;s been an accident. You
can experience the holy instant in the middle of a bunch of confused
people who are trying to get out of their confusion in awkward ways.
Why? Because no matter how others are seeing themselves, no matter how
others are interpreting what they call the circumstances they&rsquo;re
in, you are in circumstances that are constituted of God, understood,
grasped, experienced truly or misperceived. Whichever it is, God is what
is being experienced.

That&rsquo;s why I keep saying that every moment is pregnant with
infinity. Every moment is pregnant with your illumination. Every moment
is pregnant with you coming back into your right Mind&mdash;you letting
the Holy Spirit in. Why? So that you might see your brothers and your
world in an unflawed fashion &hellip; because it&rsquo;s your Birthright
not to be insane. Let&rsquo;s put it this way, it&rsquo;s your
Birthright to experience your sanity wholly, without distortion of any
kind.

Let&rsquo;s go into the book.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego&rsquo;s use of relationships is so fragmented that it frequently
goes even farther&hellip;[^1]
</div>

&hellip; even farther than defining this as love and this is not love,
as having a preference that this is more loving than that.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego&rsquo;s use of relationships is so fragmented that it frequently
goes even farther; one part of one aspect suits its purposes, while it
prefers different parts of another aspect.
</div>

Well, considering what we&rsquo;ve just been talking about, the ego can
take the relationships that are part and parcel of the circumstances
that you&rsquo;re confronted with and it can say that this aspect is
more conducive, and that part, aspect, is less conducive to the
experience of the holy instant [chuckle] under these circumstances. But
under other circumstances the opposites will have value or lack of
value. Why? Because depending upon the circumstance, one or the other
helps create security to one who feels vulnerable. And so in one
instance this will be rejected because it isn&rsquo;t as effective as
another aspect to provide security. But under other circumstances, the
one that was rejected will be the better of two, and it will be picked.

The ego has no standards. There are no principles underlying anything as
the ego sees it &hellip; except the principle of self-preservation. And
what preserves one&rsquo;s self, as I said, in one circumstance will be
different in another circumstance.

What would you think if you observed someone behaving in these different
ways under different circumstances? If you saw that one in the same set
of circumstances all the time, you might be inclined to say, &ldquo;Well
this is a very dependable individual. He has principles. He abides by
them. He is consistent. I can trust him. I can rely upon him to be the
way I expect him to be.&rdquo;

But if per chance, you get to see him in another set of circumstances in
which he violates what you perceived to be his principles, then you will
be distrustful of him. &ldquo;Where is his anchor? Where is his rudder?
Where is there anything that makes him dependable?&rdquo; And of course,
why do you want to know? Because if he&rsquo;s not dependable, you are
going to be vulnerable, and now this one, who maybe under certain
circumstances you would rely on, but not in others you wouldn&rsquo;t,
you become just like him.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego&rsquo;s use of relationships is so fragmented that it frequently
goes even farther; one part of one aspect suits its purposes, while it
prefers different parts of another aspect. Thus does it assemble reality
to its own capricious liking, offering for your seeking &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning, your observation &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; a picture whose likeness does not exist.
</div>

Have you ever known anyone who has &ldquo;telephone manners?&rdquo; You
can be visiting with them, you know, down to earth, real, easy going,
fluid conversation and the phone rings and they answer the phone and you
think, &ldquo;Who in the world is that? Where did they come on with that
persona? And Why?&rdquo; Well, because they feel that for some reason it
serves them &hellip; it serves their safety &hellip; it serves the
presentation and effect that they want to make. And under those
circumstances they use it.

And they get off the phone and you wonder, &ldquo;Well, wait a minute,
how much of the way they&rsquo;ve been dealing with me is real or how
much of it is a persona that they&rsquo;re putting on with me, which
they wouldn&rsquo;t begin to put on with someone else?&rdquo; And as you
try to take these conflicting aspects and put them together and have a
picture of this individual, you can&rsquo;t, because they&rsquo;re so
inconsistent.

It&rsquo;s almost like a person with multiple personalities. And one of
the personalities wears glasses because their vision is poor, but
consistently poor, so that an examination would show what kind of
glasses were needed. And when they wear the glasses they&rsquo;re able
to see. But when the other persona comes forth, it wears no glasses
because it needs no glasses &hellip; same body, you might say, but
inconsistency. And how can you put this together if you were to observe
it? You can&rsquo;t put the need for glasses and no need for glasses
together in the same place at the same time, which makes this sentence
more understandable:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Thus does it assemble &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the ego &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; reality to its own capricious liking, offering for your seeking
a picture whose likeness does not exist.
</div>

Now the simple fact is, that if you&rsquo;re not yielding to God, if you
are not saying in every instant, &ldquo;Father, what is Your
perspective? what is the truth here? what is it my Birthright as Your
Son or Daughter to be experiencing here?&rdquo; &hellip; if you&rsquo;re
not doing that, then you are making a presentation. And the basis of
whatever your behavior is, is self-preservation. And you are
inconsistent. And you are dishonest, because you will do under different
circumstances whatever it takes to keep you safe.

Now, the reason you do this is because you don&rsquo;t feel your
connection with your Source. And so you practice or exercise no alliance
with it. You practice an unconsciousness of it&mdash;an unconsciousness
of a relationship that actually uninterruptedly, eternally exists and
constitutes the reason you do exist.

So, every circumstance that you are confronted with is a circumstance of
relationships. Every relationship holds for you the opportunity for you
to experience it truly as it is, which would constitute a holy
relationship. A relationship with&mdash;I don&rsquo;t want to say
between&mdash;a relationship with everything.

If you go into a zoo and you walk through it, after three or four hours
you have seen all different kinds of species of life. As you have done
it, you&rsquo;ve never been confused about who you are. And other human
beings there that you have been walking with, are those that you would
describe as, &ldquo;we.&rdquo; &ldquo;We&mdash;all of us&mdash;went
through the zoo and looked at all these fascinating aspects of
creation.&rdquo; And you didn&rsquo;t mean the baboons, and you
didn&rsquo;t mean the hummingbirds and you didn&rsquo;t mean the
rattlesnake when you said, &ldquo;We all walked through the park
&hellip; we all walked through the zoo.&rdquo;

But you know what? You had no trouble identifying who the
&ldquo;we&rdquo; was. It didn&rsquo;t matter whether some had black
hair, blond hair&hellip; it didn&rsquo;t matter whether some had red
skin or black skin or slanted eyes. &ldquo;We walked through the zoo,
fascinated by the incredible variety of Creation.&rdquo;

Well, you know what? When you enter into the holy instant, where you
said &ldquo;Yes&rdquo; to God, and your brothers and sisters are
revealed to you as what they truly Are, you recognize yourself in them,
and you know they recognize themselves in you just like everyone in the
zoo&mdash;everyone walking through the zoo. And you can immediately say,
&ldquo;We&rdquo; &hellip; why? Because We are the same.

And this is what it means when the Course refers to the
Sonship&mdash;the Sons and Daughters of God. The Sonship is One. The
Christ is One. It doesn&rsquo;t mean that there&rsquo;s not infinite
individuation of God. It doesn&rsquo;t mean that there isn&rsquo;t
infinite manifestation of God. But it means that the infinite
manifestation recognizes and experiences Itself as One, as
undifferentiated, we&rsquo;ll say, in the sense that you&rsquo;re used
to differentiating yourself from the birds and the cats and the insects
and on and on and on. You make that differentiation.

I&rsquo;m going to tell you something else: In the holy instant, not
only is there no specialness of any kind, of the sort that would make
insects different from cats and so on, absolutely everything, whether
it&rsquo;s a tree, or a leaf on the tree, or a bird on the branch in the
tree, or the earth that the tree is growing in and on and on and on,
every aspect is &ldquo;We&rdquo;&mdash;every aspect is &ldquo;Us.&rdquo;
And I will carefully say, every thing is &ldquo;Me.&rdquo; But
it&rsquo;s every thing is Me, not everything is little me, the center of
the world, the center of the universe. No, the universe in its awesome
infinite wholeness is We&mdash;is Us&mdash;in which nothing stands out
as being &ldquo;not me,&rdquo; and therefore, making the me that is
different from what is not Me, special. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Thus does it assemble reality to its own capricious liking, offering for
your seeking a picture whose likeness does not exist.
</div>

You see &hellip; a picture of a likeness that doesn&rsquo;t exist is a
caricature, actually. It&rsquo;s not a picture.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For there is nothing in Heaven or earth that it resembles, and so,
however much you seek for its reality, you cannot find it because it is
not real.
</div>

However much you try to find the reality of an ego that&rsquo;s
capricious in the way it puts its values together, you&rsquo;re not
going to find it. But at the same time, you must come to the realization
that that definition applies to you too at this moment, until
you&rsquo;re willing to provide the circumstance in which the holy
instant can occur.

That circumstance being: Your willingness to stand with your attention
on God &hellip; saying &ldquo;Yes&rdquo; to God&hellip;
&ldquo;Yes&rdquo; to letting in His perception, His experience of the
Real meaning of every aspect of everything, so that you might, in that
moment, cease being separate and different and therefore special and in
not holding anything else to be separate and different from you &hellip;
getting rid of its specialness, which in almost all cases amounts to a
negative specialness that you must be on guard against and which you
spend your life making sure you&rsquo;re defended against well &hellip;
through skillful manipulation.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Everyone on earth has formed special relationships, and although this is
not so in Heaven&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you might say, where the Holy Spirit abides &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and although this is not so in Heaven, the Holy Spirit knows
how to bring a touch of Heaven to them here. In the holy instant no-one
is special, for your personal needs intrude on no-one to make them
different.
</div>

In other words, when you do allow the holy instant to happen, you no
longer put on a telephone voice. You no longer talk this way with that
one and another way with another one. You suddenly cease in that instant
to be dishonest. And you have the opportunity to feel the substantiality
of your integrity when you are actually being honest&mdash;something
that happens spontaneously when defense is abandoned&mdash;when fear is
gone. This is important to understand.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Without the values from the past &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; things which you cannot bring into the holy instant.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Without the values from the past you WOULD see them all the same&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; just like you see all the other people in the zoo as being the
same, as contrasted by being different from the animals in the zoo.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Without the values from the past you WOULD see them all the same, and
like YOURSELF. Nor would you see any separation between yourself and
them. In the holy instant, you see in each relationship what it WILL be
when you perceive only the present.
</div>

Here&rsquo;s a little mind bender for you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you see in each relationship what it WILL be when you perceive
only the present.
</div>

If you perceive only the present, how can you see what will be? Because
when you see in the present, you see the truth, you experience the
truth, which you will experience forever&mdash;even though time will not
pass.

The point is, that the future will not constitute a change of what you
Are. No more will you be engaged in perfecting yourself in developing
greater skills.

You will live life fully from the already fullness of you, as will all
of your brothers and sisters. And you will see it in them and they will
recognize, as I&rsquo;ve said the last few weeks, they will recognize it
in you. Your appreciation and acknowledgement of what is true of them
will be felt and acknowledged by them. And you will feel the
acknowledgement, therefore, your act of acknowledgement is a universal
act of acknowledgement that embraces the whole as a single act, much in
the same way that all of you walking through the zoo is a single act or
all of you enjoying a day at Disneyland is a single act. It may be made
up of a lot of different activities, but it&rsquo;s a single act of Us,
you might say, having fun.

I&rsquo;m trying to convey to you a feeling &hellip; a feeling of what
Oneness means. And a feeling of the fact that Oneness no longer allows
for any form of differentness that constitutes exclusion in some way.

The very word &ldquo;infinite&rdquo; implies infinity. It implies
unending manifestation of life. But none of those manifestations
constitute a difference or a specialness that makes it stand out above
anything else, and also does not allow everything else to be something
threatening.

And so unity of infinity constitutes harmony. This is what awaits you as
you allow for and invite the holy instant by abandoning the definitions
you&rsquo;ve made up and learned that cause you to see differentness
where differentness doesn&rsquo;t exist, and causes strife to occur
where differentness doesn&rsquo;t actually exist and which, therefore,
needs to be expunged. The strife needs to be banished, not by a decree,
but by a simple lack of exercising a right to define things as though
they are different and believe your definition, and then act
accordingly.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God knows you NOW. He remembers nothing, having ALWAYS known you exactly
as He knows you now.
</div>

As you walk through the zoo with everyone else or as you move through
Disneyland with everyone else, you&rsquo;re knowing each other NOW. You
remember nothing about them. You could say that you&rsquo;re a present,
We. It&rsquo;s a brand new We, different from the we that was walking
down the streets in Anaheim or the streets in the town where the zoo is.
But it&rsquo;s always, We. And you recognize the We. And you know Them
as you knew the people yesterday as We.

Now this does not express the total meaning of the words here in the
Course, but they convey to you how We can mean something to you without
there being a requirement to define every aspect of the We as though it
is distinctly different from the others, as though each individual were
a different species. You see?

But you live with each other that way. You protect yourself against each
other. And because you&rsquo;re protecting yourself against your
brother, your brother sees you as a threat and treats you accordingly.
And so you play this dance together, of war, to one degree or another,
which is the absence of the holy instant &hellip; and is the call for
the holy instant.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God knows you NOW. He remembers nothing, having ALWAYS known you exactly
as He knows you now. The holy instant parallels His knowing by bringing
ALL perception out of the past, thus removing the frame of reference you
have built by which to judge your brothers.
</div>

And judge your brothers, you do &hellip; unless of course, you&rsquo;ve
done the two-step. Unless you&rsquo;ve stepped back and abandoned
whatever definition might have sprung forth the moment you met him a
moment ago, or whatever definition had accumulated because the fellow
was someone you&rsquo;ve known for a long time &hellip; you&rsquo;ve
been willing to step back and abandon that and inquire with an innocent
mind, with innocent eyes, to know of God, &ldquo;What is the truth here?
Help me see You in this one, because I know if there appears to be this
one in any form, it has to be You being Yourself, here and now, and
everything characteristic of You is the only thing that can truly be
there for me to experience it. That, I want to experience. I do not want
to continue to experience my definition and my reactions to those
definitions and my preoccupation with what behavior is called for
because of those definitions.&rdquo; You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Once this is gone&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; all perception out of the past, which has removed the frame of
reference you&rsquo;ve built by which to judge your brothers &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Once this is gone, the Holy Spirit &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that which is nothing more than your right Mind &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; substitutes His frame of reference for it.
</div>

Listen &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
His frame of reference is simply God.
</div>

That is the simplicity of it. If the Holy Spirit is nothing more than
your right Mind, then your frame of reference is God. That&rsquo;s the
simplicity of it. That&rsquo;s the strength of it. That&rsquo;s the
integrity of it. That&rsquo;s the inviolability of it. It means that no
matter how much imagination you use, God being all there is to you
can&rsquo;t be altered, and hasn&rsquo;t been altered.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit&rsquo;s timelessness lies only here.
</div>

Your timelessness lies only here.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For in the holy instant, free of the past, you see that love is in you,
and you have no need to look WITHOUT and snatch it guiltily from where
you thought is was.
</div>

Relief &hellip; release. You no longer have to snatch it guiltily
because it&rsquo;s not only yours, it&rsquo;s the very substance of you.
It&rsquo;s your nature. It is that out from which every action, every
conscious awareness comes. It&rsquo;s pure harmony and pure beauty and
yet, in the experience of it, you don&rsquo;t have yourself on your mind
because you&rsquo;re aware that this is the truth about everyone and
everything. And all of a sudden it&rsquo;s We. All of a sudden
it&rsquo;s Us. All of a sudden there&rsquo;s no call for defense. As I
said, all of a sudden there is relief.

Now, it&rsquo;s becoming clearer that this is a threshold that everyone
will move over. And it&rsquo;s a threshold that you&rsquo;re being
called to move over because you can, and there&rsquo;s someone to tell
you that you can.

It&rsquo;s simply time for suffering to be over. It&rsquo;s simply time
for tension to dissolve. It&rsquo;s simply time for a misunderstanding
of who you Are and what everything Is, to vanish.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
ALL your relationships are blessed in the holy instant&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and it&rsquo;s equally true to read it this way:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
ALL your relationships are bless-ed in the holy instant, because the
blessing is not limited.
</div>

In the holy instant, the arising of love in you that&rsquo;s filling you
up&mdash;at least that&rsquo;s what it feels like&mdash;is God&rsquo;s
Love illuminating Itself in you, illuminating what never left. And as
you feel it, and I&rsquo;m going to say, own it, because you know
it&rsquo;s You, and because there are no private thoughts or
experiences, all of Creation feels that acknowledgement in you and that
experience in you, because there are no private experiences in
actuality. And you have your first experience of what can only be called
&ldquo;Universal Love.&rdquo;

You&rsquo;ve been able to imagine that you are embraced in Universal
Love&mdash;the Father&rsquo;s Love. But it&rsquo;s time for you to begin
to be aware that when you let the Love that you Are be felt by yourself,
it is felt Universally. And the Universe feels Universally loved by you.
This is the simple, simplicity of Oneness.

As you realize that We are walking through the zoo, or We are all
enjoying Disneyland, it doesn&rsquo;t turn the We into a lump&mdash;an
undifferentiated lump, we&rsquo;ll say, which would be static and not
infinite anymore. It leaves every aspect of infinity free to fulfill
it&rsquo;s God-directed purpose, with every aspect of it recognizing its
Godness and the Godness of everything else, so that it knows all of it
is We &hellip; and rejoices in safety, rejoices in peace, rejoices in
the absence of tension, rejoices at the awesomeness of Creation without
excitement&mdash;meaning, that thrill that was always tinged with fear
as something new was explored, which couldn&rsquo;t be embraced because
it was being looked at through eyes that were absent Love. In other
words, by the orphan.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In the holy instant, the Sonship gains AS ONE. And united in your
blessing, it BECOMES one to you. The meaning of love is the meaning God
gave to it. Give to it any meaning APART from His, and it is impossible
to understand it.
</div>

And I will say that, because you don&rsquo;t understand it when you look
at Him and it looks like your brothers and sisters, you tend to be
confused and misunderstand and mistrust what you see, and begin to act
out of fear.

Now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Every brother God loves as He loves you; neither less nor more. He needs
them all equally, and so do YOU.

Every brother God loves as He loves you;&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; no specialness. But God sees you truly. God sees you now. And
God sees Himself in you now. And you, not holding yourself apart,
experience as your being, that integrity of God seeing and recognizing
Himself in what He sees, and therefore It&rsquo;s incapability of
conflict. Unity, peace, harmony, being, arising out of love infinitely,
but not separately.

God needs all of Creation equally. And you need all of Creation equally.
And all of Creation needs you equally because it is all One. And if any
part of It tries to hold itself apart, it doesn&rsquo;t change the fact
that the Universe needs all of Itself equally, including you. And the
Brotherhood needs all of Itself, including you, equally &hellip; and
vice versa.

The holy instant allows that experience, that Real experience of being
as One, back into and as your conscious experience of Being. And
that&rsquo;s what it&rsquo;s all about.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In time, you have been told to offer miracles as Christ directs, and let
the Holy Spirit bring to you those who are seeking you.
</div>

You have been told to listen to the Holy Spirit. You&rsquo;ve been told
to listen for the Christ within and to take direction relative to
healing, and that the Holy Spirit would bring those to you for healing.
Yet, you were moving to, you might say, a new level, a new paradigm.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet in the holy instant&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; this moment in which you say &ldquo;Yes&rdquo; to God, and
actually let in the experience &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; in the holy instant, you unite directly with God, and ALL your
brothers join in Christ.
</div>

You join with God by no longer insisting upon the right to be an orphan
and work out your own salvation on your own terms. And when you join
with God and God reveals you to your Self as He is being You, and you
recognize the truth about We&mdash;all of your Brothers and Sisters and
all of Creation&mdash;you no longer hide your Christhood. And as part of
the Brotherhood that constitutes the Christ, you recognize your Self
without guilt and without pride, simply for what you Are &hellip; the
Father&rsquo;s Son &hellip; the Father&rsquo;s Offspring.  

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Those who are joined in Christ &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in other words, [a chuckle] those who as they walk through the
zoo say We about themselves walking through the zoo, those who find
their unity even though there seems to be diversity, are joined in their
We-ness &hellip; right? That&rsquo;s the same as what it means here:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Those who are joined in Christ are in no way separate. For Christ is the
Self the Sonship shares, as God shares His Self with Christ.
</div>

That&rsquo;s like a mathematical equation: God = Christ = Christ = God.

Now, these are not spiritual words about a spiritual existence somewhere
far off. These are invitations and triggers to your awareness to help
you be willing to look at where you are now, with whatever circumstances
you&rsquo;re confronted by, with a cultivated curiosity no matter what
the circumstances are, to get God to tell you and show you Himself in
any part or every part of the circumstances, without bringing your past
definitions of the circumstances into play.

You can&rsquo;t say, &ldquo;Well, it&rsquo;s not quiet enough. Well,
it&rsquo;s not private enough. Well, there&rsquo;s not enough respect.
Well, there&rsquo;s not enough peace.&rdquo; You see &hellip; and then
resent the circumstance.

The circumstance is the only means you have, to have a holy instant.
Because the holy instant is going to be about a relationship. If that
isn&rsquo;t kicking against the pricks, I don&rsquo;t know what it is,
when you resent the very thing that holds the Answer.

If the circumstance is unpleasant, say anyway, &ldquo;God, show me your
Self here. I know You&rsquo;ve got to be here because something&rsquo;s
happening. [Chuckling] It looks like hell, but something is happening.
If something is happening, You&rsquo;ve got to be here! Show me, because
I want to see You. I do not want to see what I&rsquo;m seeing. I&rsquo;m
willing to abandon my frustration or anger at the circumstance.
I&rsquo;m willing to stop saying the circumstance will keep me from
experiencing Your Presence.&rdquo; You see?

Value every apparent circumstance that you seem to be in, and you bring
the one circumstance into play that will promote the holy
instant&mdash;your willingness to stand with your attention &hellip;
where? Not on your definitions of the circumstances, but on the Father,
Who is present with you no matter what you are perceiving, and asking,
&ldquo;Father, what is the truth here?&rdquo; and letting it in.

Just remember, you won&rsquo;t let it in as long as you&rsquo;re
resenting the circumstance, as long as you are judging it as not worthy
of being present with, as long as you are judging it as something
destructive to you. That is bullshit!

You don&rsquo;t have to define it that way. You can define it truly and
say, &ldquo;If anything is going on here at all&mdash;and something
obviously is&mdash;God must be here. And I&rsquo;m going to ask God of
Himself what It is, so that I might know it and join Him in appreciation
of It and let go of whatever is binding me to a sense of suffering and
lack associated with these circumstances.&rdquo; That&rsquo;s the
invitation to the holy instant. And that&rsquo;s what lets the holy
instant occur.

You have humongous number of holy instants ahead of you this coming
week. Take advantage of them. And I look forward to being with you next
week.

[^1]: T15.5 The Holy Relationship and Special Relationships

