---
title: Jun 13, 2009
ref: "T15.6 The Holy Instant and the Laws of God"
alink: "/acim/text/15/chap1506/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

We&rsquo;re almost exactly half way through the text of A Course In
Miracles. And at this point I want to emphasize the first paragraph of
the chapter that we&rsquo;re reading, which surprisingly enough, since
we have been discussing the holy instant, is called The Purpose of Time.
I&rsquo;m going to read that paragraph in just a moment.

As you become more committed to experiencing the holy instant, as you
become more consciously and consistently committed to actually being
Awake, not talking about it, not studying about it, but engaging in the
inner act of that which facilitates the shift, you are going to find
yourself experiencing distress. And when you do, for whatever reason,
you will find it extremely valuable to come back to the first paragraph
of Chapter Fifteen. It says:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Can you imagine what it means to have no cares, no worries, no
anxieties, but merely to be perfectly calm and quiet all the time? Yet
that is what time is FOR; to learn just that and nothing more.[^1]
</div>

Every one of you need to remind yourself of this often. To have that
experience is what triggers Awakening. Therefore, when you find yourself
highly committed to other goals, you may know that you are not doing the
one essential thing&mdash;that you are being side tracked from the one
essential thing&mdash;and that for all of your commitment to these other
goals, you&rsquo;re applying yourself in a foolish and impractical
direction that you must come to recognize as such, so that you can
consciously, purposely, begin to devalue those goals. They will not
become devalued spontaneously and automatically because they are habits
which you developed and which you value and which you will not
spontaneously release until you find them no longer of value.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God&rsquo;s Teacher &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit &hellip; me&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; cannot be satisfied with His teaching until it constitutes ALL
your learning.
</div>

&hellip; until His teaching becomes the only teaching you have interest
in and choose to follow&mdash;choose to be consistently attentive to.
Obviously, one who changes teachers frequently and changes from one
teacher to another teacher, who is not consistent&mdash;teachers who are
not consistent with each other&mdash;that one is not going to find the
miracle occurring. That one is not going to find Awakening occurring.
That one is not going to find his heart&rsquo;s desire, which is to know
who he Is and to be what he truly Is uninhibitedly. That will not
happen. He will not find that.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God&rsquo;s Teacher cannot be satisfied with His teaching until it
constitutes all your learning.
</div>

If your Teacher will not be satisfied until what He&rsquo;s teaching
constitutes all you are learning, then obviously you are not going to
find yourself satisfied until His teaching becomes all your learning.
And although it&rsquo;s purely logical, the reason is, that this Teacher
is nothing but your right Mind revealing your Self to you as you truly
Are.

That&rsquo;s why satisfaction is the subject here.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; God&rsquo;s Teacher&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; has not fulfilled His teaching function until you have become
such a consistent learner that you learn ONLY of Him.
</div>

You could call that devotion to truth. You could call it devotion to
God. But at the bottom line, it&rsquo;s a devotion to your
sanity&mdash;a devotion that needs to become total. Because until your
devotion to your sanity is total, you will continue to dally with the
ego and you will not be able to experience your right Mind as your right
Mind and you will not Wake up.

When this has happened, when you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; have become such a consistent learner that you learn ONLY of
Him. [When this has happened,] you will no longer need a teacher or time
in which to learn.
</div>

Now you won&rsquo;t need a Teacher, because that which you need to learn
of, which is your right Mind that you&rsquo;re not fully connected with,
will be your right Mind with you fully connected with It. No more
teaching will be needed because you will have returned to your sanity.

Now the question is, &ldquo;How are you going to return to your
sanity?&rdquo; You&rsquo;ve got to remember what the means is. The means
is the right use of time. The means is to avail yourself of the purpose
of time.

Again, and you must remember this, because very often you get too
serious&mdash;too serious in your dedication to your Waking up&mdash;so
that you become quite intense and quite severe on yourself and
there&rsquo;s no peace. But listen:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Can you imagine what it means to have no cares, no worries, no
anxieties, but merely to be perfectly calm and quiet all the time? Yet
that is what time is FOR; to learn just that and nothing more.
</div>

To learn just that and nothing more means to arrive at a point where
you&rsquo;ve abandoned your own personal goals&mdash;where they&rsquo;re
not more important to you than being sane.

Now you&rsquo;re going to find times when it&rsquo;s hard to practice
the holy instant. You&rsquo;re going to find that somebody has ticked
you off or a circumstance has arisen that is impacting you adversely,
and you will feel the injustice of it, you will feel the fact that
it&rsquo;s not appropriate for you to be suffering from it, and you
will, out of habit, forget to do the appropriate thing which is choose
for your peace and not aggravate the symptoms by indulging in anger and
frustration and self-righteousness and on and on.

You are going to have to be diligent. And when you are upset
you&rsquo;re going to have to consciously decline to participate in the
upsetness. And you&rsquo;re going to have to do that when you
don&rsquo;t feel like doing that. You&rsquo;re going to have to dredge
up from within you a remembrance of what we&rsquo;ve been talking about,
which won&rsquo;t be on the surface when you&rsquo;re in the midst of
your reaction. And you&rsquo;re going to have to be willing to remember
what your function is.

Your function is to want to see God. Your function is to glorify God by
recognizing God in each and every thing. Your function is to take any
instant, no matter what is going on, and recognize that its potential is
a holy instant. And then decide to take advantage of it as a holy
instant. And you might have to stand there or sit there and in your
mind, say: &ldquo;I refuse to accept this invitation to be
angry&mdash;to lose my balance, my emotional cool. I refuse to accept
this invitation because my function is holier than that.&rdquo; But mind
you, when you dredge that up and bring it into the foreground,
there&rsquo;s not going to be much conviction behind it because at that
moment you still will feel justified in your upsetness. And so, the
words will ring hollow even though last Sunday or tonight they rang true
and meaningful.

It&rsquo;s at times like that, that you need to go back to this
paragraph:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Can you imagine what it means to have no cares, no worries, no
anxieties, but merely to be perfectly calm and quiet all the time?
</div>

I&rsquo;ll be honest with you, when you&rsquo;re in the middle of
turmoil, you probably won&rsquo;t want to imagine what it means to have
no cares because you will be so upset at having them. But it&rsquo;s
right in those circumstances that you have to be willing to bring to the
foreground the truth that you know, the truth that you have learned, the
revelations that have filled you, and you&rsquo;re going to have to
choose to stop doing what will inhibit you from your peace and exclude
you from the holy instant that you&rsquo;re in, period.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*The Holy Instant and the Laws of God*[^1]
</div>

We&rsquo;ve been reading about the holy instant in this, and the holy
instant in that, and the holy instant in the other thing. Now
we&rsquo;re reading about The Holy Instant and the Laws of God. Why?
Because interestingly enough, when you move into the holy instant, new
rules come into play. You might say that God&rsquo;s Values come into
play. The way God &ldquo;Be&rsquo;s&rdquo; and Knows things is
different. And you will find that what you had valued before won&rsquo;t
have value for you, and in some instances, initially, that will be
experienced as a loss by you.

But you must understand&mdash;you must be willing to
understand&mdash;that as you let this shift occur that occurs in the
holy instant, you do come under a new, an apparently new regime in which
God&rsquo;s laws govern, in which God&rsquo;s laws govern you absolutely
&hellip; govern you in perfect peace &hellip; govern you in perfect
health &hellip; govern you in perfect joy &hellip; govern you in perfect
freedom.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
All separation vanishes as holiness is shared.
</div>

You are the holy Son of God. You are the holy Daughter of God. You are
the holy Offspring of God. This is part of the new state of affairs.
This is part of the new setup. It&rsquo;s always been true but
you&rsquo;re at a point now of needing to embrace it and embody
it&mdash;to own it. And to behave as though it&rsquo;s true and to
behave toward your brother as though what&rsquo;s true of you is true of
him. He or she is the holy Son or Daughter of God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
All separation vanishes as holiness is shared.
</div>

[slight chuckle] All separation increases as unholiness is shared. When
you&rsquo;re insistent upon sharing your incompleteness and the great
need you have to compensate for your incompleteness at the expense of
your brother, separation increases. But &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
All separation vanishes as holiness is shared.
</div>

So this is part of your new function&mdash;to share your holiness. But I
will tell you that there are going to be times, initially, where the
idea of sharing your holiness is going to cause you to feel extremely
vulnerable, as though doing that is extremely dangerous because
there&rsquo;s a defenselessness to it&mdash;there&rsquo;s an intimacy to
it that means you are being undefended as you are sharing your holiness.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
All separation vanishes as holiness is shared. For holiness is power,
and by sharing it, it GAINS in strength. If you seek for satisfaction in
gratifying your needs as YOU perceive them, you must believe that
strength comes from another, and what YOU gain HE LOSES. Someone must
ALWAYS lose, if you perceive yourself as weak.
</div>

Or we could say, someone must always lose if you perceive yourself as
unholy&mdash;as not the Son or Daughter of God, as an orphan.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet there is another interpretation of relationships which transcends
the concept of loss of power completely.
</div>

It also transcends the concept of gaining power because the relationship
embodies something else.

Now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You do not find it difficult to believe that, when another calls on God
for love, YOUR call remains as strong.
</div>

In other words, your call on God for love is not diminished when another
calls on God for love.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Nor do you think that, by God&rsquo;s answer to him, YOUR hope of answer
is diminished. On the contrary, you are far more inclined to regard his
success as witness to the possibility of YOURS.
</div>

Another receiving healing, another having his life transformed as he
turned his attention and willingness over to the Father, easily inspires
you to believe that if you do the same thing, the same thing will happen
to you. You do not think that God&rsquo;s favors have been used and
there are therefore, fewer favors available for you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
That is because you recognize, however dimly, that God is an IDEA, and
so your faith in Him is STRENGTHENED by sharing.
</div>

Now God is an Idea. But God is also Mind&mdash;the environment in which
ideas take form. God is an Idea and God is also the Formulator&mdash;the
Creator of Ideas.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you are far more inclined to regard [his] &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your brother&rsquo;s &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; success as witness to the possibility of YOURS. That is because
you recognize, however dimly, that God is an IDEA, and so your faith in
Him is STRENGTHENED by sharing.
</div>

See, this is the different makeup, constitution of relationships that
transcends the concept of loss of power, or the gaining of power
completely.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What you find difficult to accept is the fact that, like your Father,
YOU are an idea. And like Him, you can give yourself completely, WHOLLY
without loss and ONLY with gain.
</div>

You see, these are the new rules&mdash;these are the new dynamics of the
holy instant. And you&rsquo;ve got to grasp the way it works so that you
might have the courage to give yourself completely. Because in giving an
idea completely through sharing, it is magnified, it is strengthened, it
is substantiated. We could say, it is immortalized, it is infinitized.

But this doesn&rsquo;t come naturally and spontaneously as you&rsquo;re
moving out of self-protection and orphanhood and all of the benefits
that you thought you had brought together for yourself by being a
successful orphan.

Being persistent about this may unsettle you. And you may have to go
back to the first paragraph of Chapter Fifteen as you practice this part
of Chapter Fifteen so as to give yourself courage to persist.

This is important:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What you find difficult to accept is the fact that, like your Father,
YOU are an idea.
</div>

You could say, you are an Idea of God: &ldquo;I am an Idea of God, held
eternal in His Mind, forever renewed and freshly expressed by Him in His
ever-present expressing of Himself right where I am.&rdquo;

So you&rsquo;re an idea. So it doesn&rsquo;t look like it &hellip; it
looks like you&rsquo;re a thing. It looks like you&rsquo;re a body. Your
body is an idea. And ideas are perfectly tangible and experienceable to
the mind that formed it. And the fact that it&rsquo;s tangible and
experienceable hasn&rsquo;t caused it to become a thing, hasn&rsquo;t
caused it to be less an idea and more a manifestation of an idea. An
idea is itself the manifestation of the Mind that formed it. The idea is
the evidence of the existence of God. It&rsquo;s that simple.

So, Waking up is an experience of translating things into thoughts or
ideas, of experiencing them more truly and, by virtue of experiencing
them more truly, releasing them from the limits that were imposed upon
them by a false interpretation of them as things&mdash;&ldquo;material
objects.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What you find difficult to accept is the fact that, like your Father,
YOU are an idea. And like Him, you can give yourself completely, WHOLLY
without loss and ONLY with gain.
</div>

But you will not find out that it will be only with gain until you do
it. And let me just say this: If suffering is going on, then you
haven&rsquo;t done it yet, and what you are doing isn&rsquo;t the answer
to the release from pain.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Herein lies peace, for here there IS no conflict. In the world of
scarcity love has no meaning, and peace is impossible. For gain and loss
are BOTH accepted, and so no-one is aware that perfect love is in him.
In the holy instant, you recognize &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the IDEA of love in you, and unite this idea with the Mind
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the capital &ldquo;M&rdquo; Mind &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; that thought It&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning God &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and could not RELINQUISH it. By holding it within Itself, there
WAS no loss. The holy instant thus becomes a lesson in how to hold all
of your brothers in your mind, experiencing not loss, but COMPLETION.
</div>

If you&rsquo;re willing to hold all of your brothers in your mind
&hellip; to hold them &hellip; to embrace them&hellip; it means
you&rsquo;re willing to share yourself with them&mdash;you&rsquo;re not
holding them outside your mind, separate from you, protected from them.
It&rsquo;s the demonstration of sharing. It&rsquo;s the other
interpretation of relationships, which transcends the concept of loss of
power completely.

Now, you&rsquo;re going to have to pay attention here, because
you&rsquo;re going to have to sort out what&rsquo;s Real and what
isn&rsquo;t real &hellip; what is of value and what isn&rsquo;t of
value. And then stop doing what isn&rsquo;t of value. You&rsquo;re going
to have to do it by paying conscious attention. It might seem to you
like work, but, shall I say, it&rsquo;s an adult thing, a mature thing
to do&mdash;to be willing to look at what the answer is, even if it
doesn&rsquo;t fit your concepts of what right ought to be&mdash;and then
choose for it, even though it means having to change your mind and do
things in a new way for new reasons.

You have encouragement for it. You have encouragement in the book. You
have encouragement from the Holy Spirit. You have encouragement from me.
You have encouragement from the Father. You have encouragement from each
of your Guides. You are companioned by many who have one intent, and
that is, to help you make this shift with your fear reduced enough so
that there is willingness to do it.

But you&rsquo;re going to have to persist in remembering the first
sentence of Chapter Fifteen &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Can you imagine what it means to have no cares, no worries, no
anxieties, but merely to be perfectly calm and quiet all the time?
</div>

So much of the time you have other more important things to do. You
insist on the context of your life being something else and you attend
to the needs of your daily affairs from a different place, not from a
place of no cares and no worries and no anxieties, not a place where
there is perfect calm and quiet all the time. But you don&rsquo;t have
to do it from there. You can choose to do it from the place that
significantly ushers you into a new awareness of being, which is your
original state of Being and is you coming back into your Sanity.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The holy instant thus becomes a lesson in how to hold all of your
brothers in your mind, experiencing not loss, but COMPLETION.
</div>

Wholly, whole &hellip; COMPLETION &hellip; to be complete is to be at
rest. To be complete and to be at rest is to be the presence of Life,
enjoying living.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
From this, it follows you can ONLY give. And this IS love, for this
alone is natural, under the laws of God.

In the holy instant the laws of God prevail&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that&rsquo;s a mighty statement.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In the holy instant the laws of God prevail, and only they have meaning.
</div>

This is where the confusing part comes in &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The laws of this world cease to hold any meaning at all.
</div>

But the fact is that the laws of this world are pretty much the laws
each of you has made up for yourselves, aside from the ones you mutually
agree upon so as to have a certain amount of harmony. But the fact is
that at the bottom line, all of the laws that you have made up have been
self-seeking and they function at the disadvantage of others. It&rsquo;s
that simple.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The laws of this world &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning the laws you made up &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; cease to hold any meaning at all.
</div>

And you experience that as a loss &hellip; a loss of identity, a loss of
meaning, a loss of leverage, a loss of ability to cope &hellip; as
though there were such disorder that it was essential for you to cope,
instead of there being such infinite harmony that there&rsquo;s nothing
to cope with and only everything to experience with embrace and
willingness to share.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When the Son of God accepts the laws of God as what he gladly wills, it
is impossible that he be bound, or limited in any way.
</div>

Now that&rsquo;s not just a truth for a future time, it&rsquo;s a fact
for you to be actively engaged in taking hold of, by choosing for the
holy instant persistently, as though there were really no other way to
be in any moment of your day than to be seeking to experience the holy
instant.

Somewhere along the line, you&rsquo;re going to have to mean the idea
that you want to Wake up. And you need to understand that, so that you
don&rsquo;t think that you&rsquo;ll sort of somehow slip into the
Kingdom of Heaven inadvertently [chuckling]. You&rsquo;ll do it
consciously. You&rsquo;ll do it by choice. And when you do it by choice,
you own it, you set it deeply or allow it to be set deeply in
you&mdash;where it actually already is&mdash;deeply enough that you no
longer choose to try to see or do things differently or at odds with it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When the Son of God accepts the laws of God as what he gladly wills, it
is impossible that he be bound, or limited in any way. In this instant,
he is as free as God would have him be.
</div>

How free would that be? Totally &hellip; completely?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For the instant he REFUSES to be bound, he is NOT bound.
</div>

The moment you refuse to be bound, you will not be bound. Refusing to be
bound is a pro-active choice, nothing slipshod or lazy about that.
Don&rsquo;t be afraid to be pro-actively decisive.

Now what happens if you become pro-actively decisive and you succeed in
actively paying attention to every moment with a desire to experience
the holy instant, to experience God&rsquo;s Perspective, to experience
the truth of what things are that are in the instant you&rsquo;re in,
and there&rsquo;s no transformation and you&rsquo;re called upon to be
persistent with patience, apparently without results? It&rsquo;s simple.
What will happen is sometimes you will get upset and you&rsquo;ll say,
&ldquo;It&rsquo;s not worth it,&rdquo; or, &ldquo;All of this must be a
lie,&rdquo; or some other excuse. And you might even claim that
it&rsquo;s unfair for anybody to expect you to have to go to these
lengths.

Well, it&rsquo;s just the way it is! Those are the lengths you have to
go to. You have to go to the lengths wherein you have become consistent
and not slipshod. You have to go to the lengths it takes not to switch
teachers back and forth and confuse the issue. You&rsquo;ve got to
arrive at the point where you, like any good student, truly want to
learn and pay dutiful and grateful attention to that one who can teach
you what you need to know, without getting arrogant and
self-righteous&mdash;deciding for yourself that you shouldn&rsquo;t need
to know that much in order to have that benefit, as though you know
better than your teacher. And the fact is, that when you slip into that,
you&rsquo;ve switched teachers, and you&rsquo;re listening to the
teacher that is the voice for fear, the voice for the ongoing
&ldquo;human condition&rdquo; that&rsquo;s uncorrectable.

How much effort does it take? It takes however much effort it takes to
arrive at a point where you&rsquo;re not sabotaging yourself by valuing
more than one teacher, teaching two different curriculums.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In the holy instant, nothing happens that has not always been.
</div>

What has always been, ultimately, infinitely, truthfully? God, being the
Movement of Creation, that is what has always been and that is what will
always be, except now It will register with you as what it Is.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In the holy instant, nothing happens that has not always been. Only the
veil that has been drawn ACROSS reality is lifted.
</div>

The distorting, graying affect that allows things not to be seen
distinctly, and therefore, easily misinterpreted or misunderstood.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Nothing has changed. Yet the AWARENESS of changelessness comes swiftly
as the veil of time is pushed aside.
</div>

How is the veil of time pushed aside? By using time for its only
purpose.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Can you imagine what it means to have no cares, no worries, no
anxieties, but merely to be perfectly calm and quiet all the time? Yet
that is what time is FOR; to learn just that and nothing more.
</div>

You know what? You all are already full of learning much more than that.
And now you&rsquo;re having to escape from your imaginations and your
misinterpretations, and your interpretations that were made for selfish
or unloving reasons that have tripped you up and bound you to an ongoing
ignorance of the truth about you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
No-one who has not yet experienced the lifting of the veil, and felt
himself drawn irresistibly into the light behind it, can have faith in
love WITHOUT fear.
</div>

So accept that. And accept the fact that as you allow for the holy
instant, as you invite it, as you provide the environment in which it
can occur, fear is likely to accompany you. Just realize it. It will
accompany you until you&rsquo;ve moved far enough over the threshold
&hellip; and then it will vanish. But you will have to persist.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet the Holy Spirit GIVES you this faith, because He offered it to me
and I ACCEPTED it.
</div>

And I will add, that in my accepting it, I accepted it for you. And so
you&rsquo;re not doing the work from scratch, and you&rsquo;re not
having to overcome all of what the first one had to overcome.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Fear not the holy instant will be denied you, for I denied it not. And
through me the Holy Spirit gave it unto you, as YOU will give it.
</div>

See, sharing &hellip; sharing &hellip; was shared with me, I share it
with you, you will share it with others, because that&rsquo;s the new
paradigm of relationships. It&rsquo;s not one of loss and gain.
It&rsquo;s one of having &hellip; it&rsquo;s just one of having &hellip;
it&rsquo;s just one of having &hellip; having infinitely.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Let no need that you perceive &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; like the need to get upset, and the need to be angry and the
need to object.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Let no need that you perceive obscure your need of this. For in the holy
instant, you will recognize the only need the aspects of the Son of God
share equally&hellip;
</div>

What are the aspects of the Son of God? All of the Sons and Daughters of
God are the aspects of the Son of God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For in the holy instant, you will recognize the only need the aspects of
the Son of God share equally, and by this recognition you will join with
me in OFFERING what is needed.
</div>

Now that&rsquo;s quite a new paradigm isn&rsquo;t it? That&rsquo;s very
different from loss and gain. That&rsquo;s very different from
&ldquo;getting&rdquo; what you need because you don&rsquo;t have it and
costing another in the process of your getting it, or vice versa,
someone else in the process of getting what he needs causing you to
experience loss.

Pay attention to this. And pretend if you must, that you are a graduate
student and that your getting your degree is important. In other words,
your learning what your studying is important. And be a diligent student
by paying attention.

Remember not to switch teachers. Remain true to one. And then remember
that all of this is to be done in the context of fulfilling the purpose
of time, which is to be in your peace, to be in harmony, to be not
anxious, and ultimately to be free to have Reality revealed to you so
that you might enjoy it in your wholeness, which embraces and includes
everything and with whom you share yourself without reservation.

Do the work this week. That is my wise counsel, because that is what
will cause learning, and that is the point.

I love you all. And I look forward to being with you next week.

[^1]: T15.6 The Holy Instant and the Laws of God

