---
title: Jul 11, 2009
ref: "Discussion"
---

Okay. As it&rsquo;s said in the vernacular, tonight I&rsquo;m just going
to hang out with you. We&rsquo;re going to be together, so you can put
away your books.

God is Love, you know. And when the going gets tough, sometimes pause is
called for &hellip; where you can take a deep breath and feel the fact
that God is Love and not be under the gun of learning-learning-learning.
Make no mistake, though, I will take advantage of every opportunity in
being with you tonight to cause learning to occur.

One could say, &ldquo;So little to say and so much time to say
it.&rdquo; And so you could say that I&rsquo;m here to say over and over
and over again the little that there is to say for as long as it takes.
And I&rsquo;m demonstrating God&rsquo;s Love by doing it. And you can
all afford to express God&rsquo;s Love by doing it for yourselves and
for each other.

The times seem to be rough and the roughness seems to be persistent.

The economy, globally, is in a rough situation and it seems to be going
on and on and on. And the suffering, the tension, the on-going lack of
resolve in so many people&rsquo;s lives becomes discouraging, or there
are physical problems that seem to be delayed in responding to any
healing effort that&rsquo;s being put forth and that is cause for
discouragement.

It seems to put a demand on each of you in many different ways. And many
times you might find yourself like a relatively new student of music,
let&rsquo;s say, learning how to play the piano. And he&rsquo;s playing
his piece that he&rsquo;s been learning and his teacher says,
&ldquo;Stop &hellip; no, here&rsquo;s the way to do it &hellip;
listen.&rdquo; And the teacher demonstrates. And the child hears and he
becomes fretful. And he says to her, &ldquo;What if I don&rsquo;t do it
right?&rdquo; The teacher says, &ldquo;Well, it just won&rsquo;t sound
so good.&rdquo;

&ldquo;No!&rdquo; he says, &ldquo;What if I don&rsquo;t get it
right?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Well,&rdquo; the teachers says, &ldquo;It will just mean that
you&rsquo;re not playing it the way the composer of the song envisioned
it&mdash;meant for it to be played.&rdquo;

And the little boy (the student) says, &ldquo;No! What will happen to me
if I don&rsquo;t do it right?&rdquo;

And the teacher is sort of amazed and looks at the child and says,
&ldquo;Well, nothing will happen to you. You&rsquo;ll just need to
practice it. You&rsquo;ll just need to do it over and over until you get
the idea&mdash;until you get the hang of it.&rdquo;

And the boy says, &ldquo;Ah-h-h, thank God! I was really worried that if
I didn&rsquo;t get it right, something would happen.&rdquo;

It&rsquo;s a concept that all of you labor under in one way or another
and it&rsquo;s called, &ldquo;truth or consequences.&rdquo;  The phrase
has been bandied about. There was a television program, &ldquo;Truth or
Consequences,&rdquo; as if there was such a thing. When the fact is,
that there is truth or truth&mdash;there&rsquo;s no truth or something
else.

&ldquo;What if I don&rsquo;t get the truth right? I&rsquo;ve got all
these problems. I&rsquo;m having trouble feeding my family. I&rsquo;m
not having the kind of healing that I want to be having or that I was
told there would be. I need to do something! What if I don&rsquo;t do it
right? Oh-h, maybe I already didn&rsquo;t do it right and maybe this is
the consequence.&rdquo; You see.

And so what amounts to a simple opportunity for practice until you get
it right, practicing to get it right becomes a potential for being made
wrong and being made responsible for being wrong. And the attention is
drawn away from something that the little boy (the piano student)
realized: &ldquo;Oh-h, oh-h, thank God! There is no consequence for me.
Nothing will happen to me. All I need to do is to keep doing it until I
get it &hellip; I see.&rdquo;

God wants you to stop turning your learning into cause for guilt and for
self-recrimination, and for blame directed at yourself.

Now you will only ever run into this dynamic if you&rsquo;re trying to
get your healing from the orphanage or if you&rsquo;re trying to move
into an experience of your abundance as though you were a poor little
orphan, you see, [chuckle] and here&rsquo;s the thing that can catch you
up: You can&rsquo;t get to the experience of what is true about you from
the orphanage or from the orphan mind-set. The only place you can access
your wholeness, your healing, your transformation, is from the Kingdom
of Heaven.

Well now, that&rsquo;s pretty darn near impossible, isn&rsquo;t it.
Because you&rsquo;re obviously not in the Kingdom of
Heaven&mdash;you&rsquo;re pretty damn sure you&rsquo;re an orphan. But
you know, we&rsquo;ve talked about something: We&rsquo;ve talked about
the fact that you&rsquo;re neither behind the point of perfection nor
advancing toward it. You&rsquo;re at that point and you must understand
yourself therefrom.

Oh, wherefrom is that, &ldquo;therefrom?&rdquo;

That thar, &ldquo;therefrom,&rdquo; is the Kingdom of Heaven. It&rsquo;s
the point of perfection. It&rsquo;s the place or the frame of reference
in which you can look at yourself and see what&rsquo;s true because
you&rsquo;ve chosen to neglect to exercise or practice doubt, fear,
guilt, etc. You&rsquo;ve chosen to become still. And in the stillness
say, &ldquo;Father, thy Will be done.&rdquo;

Now, we&rsquo;ve also talked about letting radical idealism become
practical realism.

Well, what the heck is radical idealism? [chuckles] At the bottom line,
it&rsquo;s whatever the truth is that doesn&rsquo;t seem to be true for
you. That makes it radically idealistic and impractical.

What&rsquo;s radical idealism?  That God is Love.  What&rsquo;s radical
idealism?  That you are His Daughter or Son.  What is radical idealism?
That you are very holy.  What is radical idealism? That the perfection
of every act of God that is called                             Creation
is utterly and unchangeably perfect.

And that means that everything about you is unchangeably perfect.

Now why is that radical idealism? Because it don&rsquo;t seem that way
to you! And you&rsquo;re pretty darn sure that it can&rsquo;t actually
be the truth about you because you have so much evidence to the
contrary. And you know what? Your word goes. Your word rules.

Now, I&rsquo;m going to back up. You&rsquo;re neither behind the point
of perfection nor advancing toward it. You are at that point. You are,
at this moment, at that point and you must understand yourself
therefrom. You must understand yourself therefrom if you are to arrive
at a conscious experience of the truth of that fact. Standing at that
point constitutes being in the holy instant. It&rsquo;s that place where
God&rsquo;s laws prevail. It&rsquo;s that place which seems to you to be
a new arena of being in which laws are working that express God&rsquo;s
governance. And the laws of matter, the laws of physics that seemed to
have been governing you, are no longer governing you.

And so you have healing. You have a transformed experience.

Now I&rsquo;ve talked before about the fact that you tend to use your
minds carelessly, mainly because no one ever really taught you how to
use your minds carefully.

Now I&rsquo;m going to use a meditation as an example. Ordinarily you go
through your days every day thinking-thinking-thinking. But then you
learn about meditation.  And you learn whatever practice of meditation
you learn. In the process of learning it, you find that there&rsquo;s a
new experience to be had&mdash;an experience of silence, of peace in
your mind. And it is experienced when thinking stops. And so, as part of
your practicing your meditation, you have a mantra or a focus, a candle
flame, whatever, and you give your attention to it gently. And you find
yourself thinking a thought, &ldquo;Ah-h,&rdquo; you realize, &ldquo;not
the time for that.&rdquo; And you abandon the thought and bring your
attention back to whatever the focus of the meditation is.

Now this is like the child learning how to the play the piano or a child
learning how to ride a bike, where there&rsquo;s repetitive practice of
the act of riding the bike or of doing the particular trill &hellip;
whatever it might be.

What I&rsquo;m trying to say is, that if you want to have the experience
of radical idealism becoming practical realism, you have to be willing
to practice what it takes for that to happen. And if you&rsquo;re not
good at it, you have to persist. And when the temptation comes to say,
&ldquo;Well, what I&rsquo;m persisting about is particularly important,
it&rsquo;s an issue that could make radical changes in my life that
might not be good&mdash;what…if…I…don&rsquo;t…do…it…right!&rdquo;

It&rsquo;s like doing a meditation, and in the meditation when
you&rsquo;re in your peace, the thought comes: &ldquo;Oh, I forgot to
call so-in-so and it&rsquo;s important!&rdquo; And you are tempted to
not just recognize that as a thought that doesn&rsquo;t fit what
you&rsquo;re engaged in so that you may set it aside and bring your
attention back to the focus of your meditation. You&rsquo;re sorely
tempted, because of the seriousness of the matter, to abandon what, for
lack of better words, is the translation of radical idealism into
practical realism or the fact that God is Love, into the experience of
feeling your peace so that you are able to attend to whatever needs to
be attended to, in peace, in wholeness, in the holy instant where
God&rsquo;s laws prevail.

There&rsquo;s practice. That&rsquo;s the point. You must be willing to
practice radical idealism. Idealism has the word, &ldquo;ideal&rdquo; in
it. So radical idealism doesn&rsquo;t describe something radical that
could be good or bad, radical idealism has as its focus, the ideal. And
God is the Ideal. And God&rsquo;s actions are the Ideal. And you as the
evidence of God&rsquo;s actions are the Ideal. There, we&rsquo;re
starting to understand you from the point of perfection. I&rsquo;m
talking about you from the point of perfection.

And when you bring your attention there rather than letting it dwell on
the constant rehashing of fear, doubt and anxiety, you become less
opaque, if I may put it that way.  You, in your being as you know
yourself to be in the moment, are becoming less afraid, less dense, less
tense, more flexible, more open, more receptive, with less and less of
your confident fearful self-assertion. And in the absence of
that&mdash;in the quietness, the presence of the perfection of you,
because it is God-derived, and because, for lack of better words, it
constitutes an assertion of God&rsquo;s right where you
are&mdash;radical idealism, the truth about you can, by virtue of the
laws of God that prevail in that place, find yourself being healed.

But it will not happen as long as you&rsquo;re trying to get your
healing from the orphanage, as long as you&rsquo;re trying to be the
best damned orphan you can be, or the most spiritually proficient orphan
you can be. You see, it doesn&rsquo;t have anything to do with filling
old concepts about who you are as a good boy or who you are as a good
girl. It&rsquo;s not fulfilling your mother&rsquo;s or your
father&rsquo;s concepts of who you ought to become, or how a good girl
is, or how a good boy is.

You see, as you do the two-step, as you let yourself into the holy
instant, the old passes away. The old fades and is replaced with new
rules. This is what you need to understand. And the new rules, without
fail, render visible God&rsquo;s laws that prevail and none else do.

Again, you must understand that all the holy words in the world,
including those in the Course, if they&rsquo;re worth anything at all,
bring you to a point of having radical idealism rendered practical
realism. God created you and the act of Creation He engaged in was an
act of perfection. And His Creation, called you, is therefore perfect
and that radical idealism, because it doesn&rsquo;t seem to be the case,
becomes the practical realism which is, that a physician examining you
will find the problem invisible, unavailable to study, unavailable to
see&mdash;not only that, it will mean that deformities or things that
were out of balance but not diseases or problems, will vanish as well.

Oh I know &hellip; you say, &ldquo;this is far out.&rdquo; But this is
radical idealism.  This is truth. And this truth is something
you&rsquo;re supposed to be experiencing. And so, the Course is leading
you to the point where you will have that experience. It&rsquo;s leading
you to the point where you say, &ldquo;Holy Spirit, I now know you are
nothing more than my right Mind,&rdquo; or put another way, &ldquo;I now
know, intellectually at least, that my right Mind is nothing less than
God&rsquo;s Holy Spirit! And I invite this right Mind of mine to
register with me as mine. In other words, I desire for that which
represents to me at the moment, radical idealism, I invite that to
register with me as the truth about me, in other words, the
down-to-earth, here and now practical realism of me.&rdquo; Because
that&rsquo;s the point.

It is so easy, especially when &ldquo;hard times&rdquo; persist or a
problem that doesn&rsquo;t yield &hellip; it&rsquo;s very easy to become
discouraged and to justify frustration and anger. But it doesn&rsquo;t
make it practical. It doesn&rsquo;t make it appropriate. It
doesn&rsquo;t ever constitute something that lays the groundwork for
radical idealism to become practical realism. And you all know that. You
all know that every expression of hate, every expression of anger is
something that doesn&rsquo;t even register well with your body, much
less [chuckles] provide the environment in which the Love of God can
register with you.

Now, I&rsquo;ve got to tell you that generating anger and vocalizing it
with as great strength as you can, will never constitute the means of
shutting the ego up. Why? Because it, itself, is pure ego attempting to
get charge of the situation all by itself&mdash;all on its own. And
always, it will constitute getting control of the situation, finding
authority that works on or over another, or a thing, &ldquo;I&rsquo;ve
got dominion over this cancer. I&rsquo;ve got to get dominion over this
asshole who&rsquo;s ruining my life. I&rsquo;ve got to get control over
the people who are governing the economy and our world. I&rsquo;ve got
to find my voice!&rdquo;

And this feels very justifiable to you. Of course, it&rsquo;s all being
done from the context of the orphanage&mdash;a state of being which is
based upon a basic false assumption that you exist autonomously and have
no connection with a Source other than what you can create with your
fantastic imagination, and the rules you can get other people to believe
so that they&rsquo;ll behave in a way that supports you and keeps you
safe, blah, and blah and blah.

I started out by saying God loves you and that we would take some time
to talk about things, because sometimes you need to step back and not
try so hard, so that you might, in the quietness, have a chance to be
reminded by the presence of God, the presence of Love in you, that God
loves you.

And so that&rsquo;s what I&rsquo;m talking about tonight, the ways to
&hellip; (ah, I don&rsquo;t like this) &hellip; the ways to think about
it, the contexts in which to be present with the demands in front of you
and with your opportunities to practice over and over something that
you&rsquo;re not skilled at but you will become skilled at as you
practice&mdash;just as a meditator, through the practice of noticing
when he&rsquo;s thinking and saying, &ldquo;I&rsquo;ll do that after the
meditation,&rdquo; and going back to the focus. That one through that
simple repetitive practice learns how to be in the stillness for long
periods of time and has the opportunity in that stillness to let God in.

I have to say that there are those who meditate who think the stillness
is the point, and maintain the stillness so that the moment God speaks,
that one says, &ldquo;I&rsquo;ll deal with that after the
meditation,&rdquo; and holds himself to perfect silence, to perfect
stillness in which no Movement of Creation in its true aspect can
register with him, and in which the Voice for truth can&rsquo;t register
with her.

There&rsquo;s a reason for all of this that we&rsquo;re doing. And it
isn&rsquo;t just peace in the middle of chaos&mdash;peace within, while
there&rsquo;s chaos without.

When it doesn&rsquo;t feel easy to have faith, when radical idealism
like, &ldquo;God is Love and God loves you,&rdquo; seems like nothing
but crap&mdash;a false promise, a crazy concept, something that mortals
came up with as a salve for the awfulness of existence which
doesn&rsquo;t have a shred of truth to it&mdash;when those thoughts
occur to you, what do they do? They immobilize you &hellip; one way or
another they keep you from practicing that trill &hellip; for one reason
or another they keep you from getting back up on that bicycle.

And one of the main reasons is, as I said before&mdash;and everyone of
you have to watch out for this&mdash;it becomes turned in upon you,
&ldquo;What if I don&rsquo;t get it right? What if I do it wrong?&rdquo;
Nothing! But if you let it immobilize you, you won&rsquo;t be available
to hear that one word, &ldquo;nothing,&rdquo; . . nothing will happen.

You, whether you do it right or wrong, will still be, because you
can&rsquo;t get outside of the fact that you are the expression of God,
therefore, eternal, therefore, unchangeable in terms of Being. So if you
get it wrong, nothing happens, except that you still have the
opportunity to do it right.

And tonight I&rsquo;m reminding you that there&rsquo;s a way to do it
right. There&rsquo;s a way to be, that is the way God created you to be.
And there really is no other way to be that&rsquo;s actually available
to you, but you&rsquo;re all trapped in the belief that there is. And
so, you just muck around in the miserable beliefs that, &ldquo;There
ain&rsquo;t no such thing as radical idealism that can possibly become
practical realism, because practical realism is a state of existence
unto itself that has nothing to do with this other thing called radical
idealism.&rdquo;

It&rsquo;s really like saying, &ldquo;What&rsquo;s real is error and
what&rsquo;s unreal is truth. So don&rsquo;t reach for the truth,
don&rsquo;t waste your time on it. The suggestion that radical idealism
can become practical realism is nothing more than a false temptation, a
carrot placed on a stick ahead of you that you can&rsquo;t ever reach.
The truth is impossible to have!&rdquo; No. Truth is inevitable for you
to have, just like the perfect trill is available for the piano student
to have. You just need to persist. The child needs to not get up and
walk away from the piano and go outside with his buddies and say,
&ldquo;Playing piano is for sissies. I&rsquo;m not going to do it
anymore. It&rsquo;s not worth it. It&rsquo;s too hard. Let the girls do
it.&rdquo;

Be patient with yourselves. Love yourselves enough to stop doing what
hurts you, even if at the moment it feels so good to do it. Anger always
feels momentarily satisfying. At times it&rsquo;s almost better than an
orgasm. Many times, anger has prevented the possibility of an orgasm,
&ldquo;Honey, I&rsquo;d rather be angry tonight &hellip; no way.&rdquo;

Anger and guilt are like drugs, they give you an apparent high, but they
are debilitating in their use. And there&rsquo;s a point that you have
to arrive at where you decide not to employ them. And when you make that
decision not to employ them, you have to begin to exercise a little
self-discipline. You don&rsquo;t run off like the child from the piano,
angry. You sit there and you say, &ldquo;Oh, nothing&rsquo;s going to
happen to me if I don&rsquo;t get it right. And if I keep practicing it,
I&rsquo;ll get the hang of it, everybody else has. I&rsquo;ll get
it.&rdquo; And you persist. Or in your meditation, you have a thought,
you abandon it and bring your attention back to the focus. This is the
practice of discipline.

Some of you feel in the clutches of anger. Some of you feel as though
you&rsquo;re in the clutches of depression. Some of you feel that
you&rsquo;re in the clutches of fear and you say, &ldquo;The things that
I&rsquo;m in the clutch of are so strong and I&rsquo;m not responsible
for them, circumstances are such that I can&rsquo;t be anything but
anxious or fearful or depressed or whatever.

This is where, like the user of drugs, you have to be willing to take a
look and see whether such an attitude or the practice of such an
attitude is detrimental to you or helpful, so that you can recognize
that, &ldquo;No, it&rsquo;s actually detrimental and I must change what
I&rsquo;m doing. I must stop yielding to the clutching of fear, the
clutching of anxiety, the clutching of depression and so on. I may not
be able to make it go away, but I can give my attention somewhere else.
I do not have to give these things my full attention.&rdquo;

And here&rsquo;s the best way to start: By reminding yourself that
you&rsquo;re neither behind the point of perfection nor advancing toward
it, that you are at that point and that you must understand yourself
therefrom. Because therefrom is the holy instant and therefrom
God&rsquo;s laws prevail, God&rsquo;s laws govern absolutely. And in the
presence of those laws, whatever it is, whatever the fantastic
imagination was that brought up fear or anxiety or depression, together
with the fear, anxiety and depression will be gone and radical idealism
will have been rendered practical realism. And that&rsquo;s the point.

Always, always when you are in pain of any sort, psychological,
physical, whatever, the furthest thing from your mind is the truth that
you&rsquo;re neither behind the point of perfection nor advancing toward
it, that you must understand yourself therefrom if you wish to be free
of this which is debilitating your ability to see God in everything,
including yourself, and to experience transformation, healing, the
direct experience of Creation as it truly is.

So sometimes you need to stop plowing through your lessons and be
present with things you&rsquo;ve already learned. Because they will help
you to dare to choose for your peace when chaos seems to say you need to
be afraid. Or to choose for your peace when your health seems to be
saying there&rsquo;s no justification for you to be experiencing peace.
And then be in that point of perfection, be in the holy instant like a
led weight, so that nothing moves you, nothing distracts you, because
you&rsquo;re not interested in being distracted.

You want to know something? The holy instant is that place in which
God&rsquo;s laws prevail and prevail absolutely. But I promise you that
the experience of the holy instant isn&rsquo;t just a permanent
experience of invulnerability and perfection, the holy instant is the
threshold, for lack of better words, of your being swept into the
Movement of Creation Itself as a participant in It by sharing with God
the instantaneous conscious experience of all that Creation Is
now&hellip; now &hellip; now &hellip; now &hellip; now.

And so, the holy instant isn&rsquo;t a destination. The holy instant is
the beginning of being Awake again. It&rsquo;s the beginning of radical
idealism becoming practical realism. That&rsquo;s what Creation Is: God
being radically ideal. And in the act of being radically ideal, causing
practical realism without any of it ever becoming unlike its Source,
without any of it becoming some physical universe and without any of
God&rsquo;s Sons or Daughters becoming independent agents who seem to be
able to generate for themselves frustrating, sickening, dying
experiences &hellip; seem to be able to create for themselves.

New meditators or meditators under stress have difficulty being free of
thoughts, but with practice they become free of thoughts. You may have
difficulty watching the truth become real for you, watching radical
idealism become practical realism, but through practice you will.

And the one thing I want you to go home with knowing tonight is, that
what doesn&rsquo;t contribute to radical idealism being translated into
practical realism, is a useless, meaningless activity for you to engage
in. And as the threshold of Awakening&mdash;generally speaking&mdash;is
closer, your dallying with a capacity to imagine negatively, is going to
be met with more discomfort than it has in the past. And the freedom
that you used to have will seem to be taken away from you, the freedom
to do it and not suffer. And you will be reminded more instantly that
what you&rsquo;re doing is not providing the environment in which the
holy instant can occur. That what you are doing is making it impossible
for you to remember that you are neither behind the point of perfection
nor advancing toward it, you are at that point and you must understand
yourself therefrom. You must approach everything in your apprehension of
all of Creation from that standpoint. I don&rsquo;t mean apprehension as
fearful, I mean apprehension as being conscious of.

Now you may do whatever you like this week. You may read on in the
Course, but I&rsquo;m going to encourage you not to do that and to spend
some time learning to be gentle with yourselves, give yourselves the
benefit of the doubt. And while you&rsquo;ve let yourself off the hook
that causes you to certainly automatically feel guilty, consider these
gentle things &hellip; these gentle truths that we&rsquo;ve been talking
about &hellip; that God loves you &hellip; that your perfection is what
you are supposed to be experiencing &hellip; that doing what will allow
your perfection to manifest is not something that will be met with good
affect or consequences and that therefore you can freely and without
remorse, without guilt, persist with some diligence&mdash;gentle
diligence as you would use in a meditation.

You&rsquo;re meditating. You&rsquo;ve had some quiet time. And then a
damn thought pops up! You see. And that&rsquo;s what you do. &ldquo;A
DAMN THOUGHT JUST POPPED UP!&rdquo; Wow &hellip; call that a disturbed
meditation! You could just say, &ldquo;Oh, another thought. I&rsquo;m
going back to my focus.&rdquo; You don&rsquo;t have to disturb your
meditation further than the thought did. Just notice it gently and come
back to your focus.

If you don&rsquo;t get it right, don&rsquo;t get upset about it. Notice
that you didn&rsquo;t get it right and come back to doing it again.
&ldquo;Damn I forgot that I was at the point of perfection and not
advancing toward it. Oh, yeah, I gotta remember, I&rsquo;m neither
behind the point of perfection nor advancing toward it, I&rsquo;m at
that point and I must understand myself therefrom. That must be the
context in which I consider things or listen for what the truth
is.&rdquo;

Kindness &hellip; self-kindness &hellip; be kind to yourself as you
reach out to God. Be kind to yourself as you desire to know the truth
that is revealed in the holy instant in which the laws of God prevail
absolutely.

And again, no matter how satisfying it is to bitch or grouse about this,
that or the other thing, remember: Begin to remind yourself that as
satisfying as it feels at the moment it doesn&rsquo;t allow for the holy
instant, and therefore, it doesn&rsquo;t allow for that place, that
experience in which God&rsquo;s laws prevail absolutely. If you will
remember that, you will realize that there is nothing satisfying enough
about being angry to sacrifice the other.

And then go back to remembering that you&rsquo;re at the point of
perfection and that you want that fact, which seems to you at the moment
to be radical idealism, to be rendered practical realism to you, rather
than your awful beliefs.

I love you all. Be kind to yourself this week with the truth. Let the
truth love you into your health, by not fighting against it with your
absolute negative confidences. You don&rsquo;t need to do it. You
don&rsquo;t need to block your good.

Okay.

