---
title: Jul 18, 2009
ref: Discussion before moving to T15.7 The Holy Instant and Communication
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

There are some things we need to discuss before we move on.

Mind moves. In other words, Mind&mdash;and I&rsquo;m referring here to
Mind as God and the Movement of Mind as the Movement of God, because God
is Mind, Mind moves&mdash;and I&rsquo;m using the word,
&ldquo;movement&rdquo; to describe the activity of Mind&mdash;Mind being
what Mind is, which is conscious.

And so Mind, in the act of being conscious elicits, we&rsquo;ll say,
Creation&mdash;infinite detail, infinite detailed expression of
perfection, of harmony, of beauty, of shape, outline, form and color.
Because it is Mind that is moving and because the Movement of Mind is
Consciousness, the movement is experienced as ideas. And as I&rsquo;ve
said before, these ideas are perfectly real and tangible to the Mind
that formed them by the act of being what it is: Consciousness.

This is the primitive and ultimate truth. It was the truth before any of
you had a different idea about it. It has been the truth while you have
had a different idea about it. And it will continue to be the truth when
you abandon the very creative, imaginative definitions you have given to
Creation which have not allowed you to recognize God in it all.

This is the premise of every prayer that is a real prayer. Because a
real prayer is the desire to experience something as it truly is. You
desire usually to have that experience and express it as a prayer when
you&rsquo;re in distress because form, outline and color seems to be
uncomfortable&mdash;damaged, diseased, whatever.

Now what happened to this primitive and ultimate actuality of Being?

You&rsquo;re not going to hear a lot that is new from me tonight but
we&rsquo;re going to bring it into focus once again so that the part of
the book we&rsquo;re going to go into will make more sense to you.

Now at some point, you and a brother&mdash;because you couldn&rsquo;t do
it all by yourself&mdash;you and your brother, a brother or sister, a
fellow Son or Daughter of God, decided to be imaginative: &ldquo;What if
we looked at Creation this way? What if we looked at that this way or
that way, or the other way? What if we gave it a definition different
from what it truly is?&rdquo;

And so, the two of you made a mutual agreement to believe something that
wasn&rsquo;t true.

Now in doing this you gave away your Birthright. You abandoned your
Birthright. Your Birthright as the Son or Daughter of God is to see and
experience everything as God is Be-ing it.  But if you choose to create
a definition for yourself different from what a thing actually Is,
you&rsquo;ve moved out into a territory that you could call
&ldquo;independence.&rdquo; And we&rsquo;ve referred to this in the past
as getting a divorce from your Father &hellip; saying, &ldquo;Father,
I&rsquo;d rather see things my way.&rdquo;

Now, we&rsquo;ve also talked about the fact that the moment you acted on
this, and you denied your Birthright because you truly wanted to commit
yourself to a fantasy for awhile, you lost the experience of the
totality of Creation in its context of perfect harmony. You, by virtue
of abandoning your Birthright began, yourself, to act out of harmony
with Creation. And this, as we have discussed, resulted in two things:
Fear and its partner, guilt, or guilt and its partner, fear.

Now at the same time, when you began to define everything yourself, or
yourselves, you could not align each and everything with God anymore.
And so you conceived of it as being a self-existent independent thing
itself instead of an integral part of the action of Mind, which by
it&rsquo;s action, is being Creation now &hellip; now &hellip; now
&hellip; now &hellip; now &hellip; now.

Things became objects unto themselves. And because they were not under
the governance of God any longer because you were imagining them to be
things on their own, they became dangerous to you. Why? Well everything
became dangerous because you were in a state of fear, which you
couldn&rsquo;t escape as long as you insisted upon being independent
yourself&mdash;seeing yourself that way and behaving the way one would
have to behave in that vulnerable state minus the invulnerability that
you had enjoyed before this decision.

These independent objects then became defined as matter governed by the
laws of physics: Self existent bits of matter, self-existent
arrangements or cooperations, you might say, of forms of matter called
organisms and so on and so forth.

It&rsquo;s important to understand this. You need to understand that
when you got your divorce from your Father, by choosing to think for
yourself, you caused the Real to become something unreal&mdash;at least
to your perception, which you are fully committed to.

The ideal became the unreal. Spirit, the substance of All, became
matter. That which was pure idea became pure physical object.

Now last week we talked about translating radical idealism into
practical realism. We talked about the need for translating matter back
into Spirit, if you will, by asking to know what a thing is that you
have defined as matter, desiring to know what a material thing is as the
Father is Be-ing it.  In other words, you want to know: &ldquo;What is
the Father Being right there where I am seeing an &lsquo;independent
material object?&rsquo;&rdquo;

In other words, we&rsquo;re talking about translating everything from
matter back into Mind&mdash;from a physical object to an idea. Now
you&rsquo;re not actually changing a real physical object into an idea,
you are, by means of the holy instant, letting yourself back into the
true experience of what it has been all along.

Now, there are a couple of reasons why it&rsquo;s important to
understand this. The first is, that when it comes to healing, when there
is a need for healing, you tend to think of using the holy instant as a
means of gaining an understanding, or a knowledge, or a truth that will
be equal to the correction of the awful, serious, problem that
you&rsquo;re faced with. And the more serious the problem, the more
&ldquo;life-threatening&rdquo; the problem, the bigger the truth
that&rsquo;s going to be needed. And so you think that availing yourself
of the holy instant is going to be the first step of at least two-steps.
[chuckle] And you will use the holy instant to become still, to desire
to know what the truth is here instead of what you&rsquo;re
experiencing, so that you can take that truth and apply it to that
material object&mdash;that liver that&rsquo;s blocked, that breast
that&rsquo;s cancerous, that sore throat &hellip; you see.

And then the second step will be to use the clarity that has been
provided by your availing yourself of the holy instant and applying it
to the clogged liver, or the cancerous breast (fearsome-fearsome thing
&hellip; cancer &hellip; anywhere!). And because you don&rsquo;t
understand that the holy instant is not the means of getting to a first
step that will allow you to do a second step, you miss the meaning of
the first step, or you miss the Revelation entirely because it
doesn&rsquo;t fit your preconception. You&rsquo;re looking for something
you can use to apply to something else.

Now we&rsquo;ve spent some time talking about the fact that the holy
instant is that experience of Being in which God&rsquo;s laws prevail
and no others do&mdash;the laws of physics don&rsquo;t, the laws of
correct social behavior don&rsquo;t&mdash;the laws of God prevail. And
so, when you let yourself into the holy instant, what you&rsquo;re doing
is, you&rsquo;re allowing yourself into the place where God already has
dominion. And as a result, there&rsquo;s nothing left for you to apply
that dominion to.

Why?

Because the breast, the liver, the throat were never material objects in
the first place, even though you have committed yourself to very
definite definitions that say they are. All that has ever been where
your throat is, where your breast is, where your kidney is, all
that&rsquo;s ever been there have been ideas&mdash;perfectly tangible to
the Mind that formed them. But That which formed them was not
conflicted, and therefore, what It created could not become conflicted
and therefore, they never became matter that could become diseased.

Why did they seem to become diseased? Because you got your divorce and
caused for yourself the experience of guilt and fear. And that guilt and
fear believed and practiced as though it were absolute, has caused your
experience of the ideas&mdash;the infinite specific ideas of
Creation&mdash;to be experienced untruly, as problematic.

But all that Spirit is doing is being what It is while you are twisting
your perception of it and believing your perception.

You don&rsquo;t even have to learn the truth so you can get Spirit to
untwist Itself because Spirit never got twisted&mdash;God never got
changed by your imagination.

I am reiterating this and I will continue to reiterate it because it
goes flat against the grain of everything you believe, everything you
have been taught, but if you don't make this shift where you are willing
to look at everything with at least an intellectual grasp of the fact
that you may be seeing nothing more than a distortion of God&rsquo;s
Creation that hasn&rsquo;t changed Creation but is altering your
experience or perception of it, and that you can find yourself returned
to the true experience of it. If you will be willing to consider that
it&rsquo;s all ideas, divine ideas, God-ideas, and because they are
ideas they&rsquo;re not bound to laws of physics, they are bound to
express God&rsquo;s laws which prevail in reality, which prevail in the
holy instant, which you will find prevailing when you have abandoned the
application of a distorting mentality or a distorting intent. And how do
you abandon the applying of a distortion? By choosing for your peace.

So, you might say that the first step, if you were going to think of it
logically, the first step is to recognize that everything is an
idea&mdash;an idea formed by the Movement or action of Mind, the Mind
that is God. And that therefore, that action and its identifiability is
Creation Itself. And it&rsquo;s all mental. It&rsquo;s all Mind.

That would be the first step. That&rsquo;s your premise. That&rsquo;s
the premise upon which you open yourself up. That&rsquo;s the basis upon
which you desire to know the truth. You aren&rsquo;t asking to know the
truth about [raps table] matter, you&rsquo;re desiring to know the truth
about [raps table] Spirit! An idea, [raps table] an idea that makes
noise. [raps table] Noise is an idea. It&rsquo;s all Mind.

So when you want to know the truth about something&mdash;a breast, a
kidney, a throat&mdash;you&rsquo;re wanting to know the truth about an
idea, a divine idea, an idea that is as eternal as it&rsquo;s Maker, an
idea that is as eternal as the Mind that formed it, by the action of
Be-ing Mind.

Mind doesn&rsquo;t create things other than Itself. Mind moves and, you
could say, creates the experience of Be-ing Mind, of Be-ing
consciousness.

I&rsquo;ve said this before: Mind is it&rsquo;s own great cause and
effect. You see? There&rsquo;s absolute integrity, because there&rsquo;s
only one thing going on&mdash;what you have called mind and
manifestation is one thing&mdash;and it&rsquo;s all Mind.

So, when you sit down to avail yourself of the holy instant, what
you&rsquo;re doing is allowing yourself to relax into wholeness.
You&rsquo;re allowing yourself to relax into the ultimate. You&rsquo;re
allowing yourself to relax into the peace of Being that is peaceful
because it&rsquo;s incapable of embodying or holding conflict of any
kind, therefore, there is no conflict in it. You&rsquo;re letting
yourself into a sudden shift of perception&mdash;a miracle.

Now you can either look at that as being much simpler than what you have
been imagining, or you can look at it as something far more difficult
than you have been imagining, because I&rsquo;ve just said that letting
yourself into the holy instant is letting yourself all the way into the
conscious experience of what God is Be-ing.

[snaps fingers] Oh-h &hellip; that might mean you would Wake up! That
might mean you would be Awake [snaps fingers] right now&mdash;sooner
than you expected, sooner than you wanted! You had some things you
wanted to take care of &hellip; well you had one last exciting thing to
do before you got your peace &hellip; and besides, you really
don&rsquo;t like unexpected things happening!

You don&rsquo;t like unexpected things happening because you can&rsquo;t
be in control of them.

If the unexpected thing that happened was your release from
misery&mdash;release from sin, sickness, death&mdash;would you really
quibble? No you wouldn&rsquo;t.

The reason you quibble now is because you don&rsquo;t really think that
can happen&mdash;at least not so quickly that you would have to let
yourself be out of control right now!

But you know, this is what we&rsquo;re talking about. The Book may be a
long Book, but Waking up doesn&rsquo;t have to take a long time.

So you could say that the holy instant is sufficient to the meeting of
your every need&mdash;and perhaps the meeting of your every need in
one-fell-swoop.

So when we&rsquo;re talking about the holy instant, and during the week
when you&rsquo;re thinking about the holy instant and what we&rsquo;ve
talking about, be willing to let it be something far more than you had
been thinking it was, and also let it be something far less than you
were thinking it was, because if you had a really big problem,
you&rsquo;d have to have a really big truth. And that&rsquo;s not the
case.

Now, once you got your divorce from the Father, once you had your
autonomy, you lost the experience of everything being an idea and you
gained the [chuckles] insane idea that everything was made up of
independent building blocks of matter, including your body. And you
experienced your mind as being different from your body. And as we will
be reading in the next couple of weeks, your body became the means you
used for communication. And your mind was what you used as a means to
have privacy.

You want to express love to someone, you caress them, you touch them in
a way that evokes pleasure, comfort, peace. You open your mouth up and
make your vocal cords vibrate and you move your mouth and form words and
you communicate by means of your body. But the moment you want to be
alone you start thinking. And no one knows what you&rsquo;re thinking.

How many of you have ever put on a pair of sunglasses and looked at
things that you would&rsquo;ve never looked at if anyone else could see
what you were looking at? You use your mind the same way. And you think
about and look at in your mind things that you don&rsquo;t want anyone
else to know you would even consider thinking about because it
doesn&rsquo;t uphold your image, it doesn&rsquo;t uphold your means of,
lets say, getting them to behave in a way that&rsquo;s supportive of
you.

And so you use your mind to be alone. You use your mind to be private.
And yet, the simple fact is, that bodies can&rsquo;t communicate because
there ain&rsquo;t no such thing as a body made up of independent
building blocks of matter that are physical as opposed to mental.

And so communication cannot and never has been accomplished by bodies.
The fact is that in this distorted frame of reference&mdash;this
independence from God, where you are an autonomous entity&mdash;you
think you are communicating all the time by means of your use of your
body. And you&rsquo;re not. And you think that you are not communicating
anything in the privacy of your mind and you&rsquo;re communicating
everything, because &ldquo;the privacy of your mind&rdquo; is a
nonsensical phrase. Your mind never has been private. Mind has always
been universal&mdash;all inclusive. And any communication that has ever
occurred has been by means of Mind.

Waking up is making a shift from believing that you&rsquo;re
communicating by the use of your body. It&rsquo;s abandoning that, as
well as abandoning the idea that when you think something it&rsquo;s
private and no one else knows or can feel it or is affected by it.

The split between mind and matter, or Spirit and matter, dissolves in
the holy instant, wherein everything is resolved back into Mind as
Creation Itself, exhibiting only that which is characteristic of the
Mind that is moving and by its Movement, elicits Creation, we&rsquo;ll
say, so that a touch or a thought are both recognized as ideas, as Mind.
You see?

The split between mind and matter disappears and everything is still
there. What you have called matter is still there and what you had
called mind is still there, but now it&rsquo;s recognized as Mind
&hellip; as the conscious experience of [knocks on table] Being &hellip;
the conscious experience of [claps hands] Being . . the conscious
experience [gestures to mouth] of Being &hellip; the conscious
experience [gestures to ear] of Being&mdash;meaning hearing. It&rsquo;s
all Mind.

Now, we&rsquo;ve been talking about holy relationships and we&rsquo;ve
been talking about special relationships. Special relationships occur in
this funny idea [chuckling] that bodies communicate and minds are
private. That&rsquo;s where special relationships occur. It happens in a
place where guilt is the engine that drives all relationships.

Now some of you like me only to say nice things. But not uncovering not
so nice things can leave you still asleep. And so I can&rsquo;t do that.
Now the fact is that until you are Awake, guilt drives every
relationship you have and you use guilt to fire up and create motivation
within relationships. You say, &ldquo;No, I&rsquo;m not that
duplicitous.&rdquo;

But you know what? You have a phrase: &ldquo;When you&rsquo;re at your
wits end.&rdquo; What happens when you&rsquo;re at your wits end? When
you&rsquo;re at your wits end, generally speaking, suddenly you&rsquo;re
not very nice. When you&rsquo;re at your wits end you&rsquo;ve used all
your niceness up and you say, &ldquo;Well, I can&rsquo;t put on a mask
any longer. I&rsquo;ve got to express the way I really feel.&rdquo;
Not &mdash; so &mdash; nice!

You talk about &ldquo;When push comes to shove,&rdquo; and that usually
applies to a situation where you&rsquo;re at your wits end, right? And
when push comes to shove, what happens? Not &mdash; so &mdash; nice!

You need to have a new motto: &ldquo;When push comes to shove &hellip;
hug.&rdquo; Um-m, please remember that, the next time you&rsquo;re in
that, when push comes to shove place. You&rsquo;re not likely to like
adding that &hellip; &ldquo;When push comes to shove, hug.&rdquo;

The fact that you probably won&rsquo;t like adding that word,
&ldquo;hug,&rdquo; tells you that the sweet guy or the sweet gal that
you are ain&rsquo;t so sweet and ain&rsquo;t so nice when push comes to
shove. Now, when push comes to shove, it simply means that you&rsquo;re
at a point where you can&rsquo;t fake it any longer. What does that
mean? You can&rsquo;t fake that you&rsquo;re nice.

Mind you, I&rsquo;m addressing those of you who, when push comes to
shove, don&rsquo;t hug. But you know what? I need to talk to those of
you who do hug as well. Because until you&rsquo;re Awake your
willingness to hug is still part of a deal, it&rsquo;s still part of a
manipulation. Because until you&rsquo;re Awake guilt still drives your
relationships. And that&rsquo;s the part you don&rsquo;t want to hear.
But that&rsquo;s the part you need to hear. And that&rsquo;s
what&rsquo;s coming up in the next section: The Holy Instant and
Communication. What blocks communication? I&rsquo;m going to change the
words: The Holy Instant and Communion &hellip; communion &hellip; hug
&hellip; The Holy Instant and Hug &hellip; The Holy Instant and Embrace
&hellip; The Holy Instant and Unconditional Embrace.

&ldquo;The holy instant is that place,&rdquo; in which God&rsquo;s laws
not only prevail, but God&rsquo;s perspective becomes available to you
as yours because it always has been, it&rsquo;s your Birthright, but
you&rsquo;re not blocking it. And when that happens, you find yourself
in communication with absolutely everything, infinitely speaking,
without any aspect of infinity escaping your notice at any given moment.
And it&rsquo;s not overwhelming to you. And it&rsquo;s not just you, as
I&rsquo;ve said before, it&rsquo;s not just you being conscious of
everything else, it&rsquo;s everything else being conscious of you and
being conscious of you being conscious of it being conscious of you. In
other words, communication, not just awareness but communion.  The Holy
Instant and Communication.

And we&rsquo;re going to be talking about what blocks communication. And
I basically laid it out for you here. What blocks communication is that
you have decided that it&rsquo;s bodies that communicate and it&rsquo;s
minds that are private, which is 180 degrees &hellip; no it isn&rsquo;t
just a 180 degrees out of sync, because mind is the means of
communication and form is the means of communication. Mind is the
movement of ideas and forms are the movement of ideas, so they are not
even at odds with each other, they can&rsquo;t be a 180 degrees out of
sync. But do you see that the moment you moved into the orphan
mentality, that which was one became split into opposing factions:
Spirit and matter &hellip; Mind and matter &hellip; the ethereal and the
physical? No. It&rsquo;s all the same thing. It&rsquo;s all Mind.

Now, however, as the orphan you&rsquo;ve made this split of something
that&rsquo;s one. And you go around affecting everyone with your mind,
when you think that everything is private. You think no one can see what
you&rsquo;re looking at in your mind. And everyone sees it and feels it.
And you provide an atmosphere that everyone feels, even though they, at
the moment &hellip; none of you can tell what each other is thinking.
But I promise you, the fear you feel is affecting your neighbor. The
anger you feel is being felt by your neighbor &hellip; by your neighbors
in New York &hellip; by your neighbors in Tokyo &hellip; by your
neighbors in the Andromeda Galaxy.

And then, through the use of your body, you think you&rsquo;re
communicating with everyone all day long, in one way or another, when
you&rsquo;re not. And that&rsquo;s how you block communication. You
block communication by ignoring it where it&rsquo;s happening and by
thinking it&rsquo;s happening where it&rsquo;s not happening.

The holy instant and communication are inseparable. And so, if you
don&rsquo;t get this straight &hellip; if this doesn&rsquo;t become
clear to you, then you will miss the holy instant. You will be, being
quiet and being attentive looking for a concept you have of what ought
to show up, when that&rsquo;s not what&rsquo;s going to show up.
What&rsquo;s going to show up is a realization that you&rsquo;d better
be more careful about how you use your mind, because what&rsquo;s going
on in there is not private at all and it is affecting your brothers and
sisters, and then you&rsquo;ll take a little better responsibility for
what you&rsquo;re thinking.

Does that mean you&rsquo;re going to figure out healthier definitions of
ideas to think about, or does it mean that you&rsquo;re actually going
to shut up and enter into the holy instant and desire to know of your
Father what the truth is about this thing or that thing or about what
will your mind feel like &hellip; what will be going on in your mind
when you&rsquo;re willing to look at everything and see it as an idea?

Ask the Father to convey to you the experience of the idea that&rsquo;s
in front of you, which because it isn&rsquo;t made up of building blocks
of matter, isn&rsquo;t held to the laws of matter and therefore, can
behave like Spirit &hellip; can behave [snaps fingers] right now the way
God is Being it&mdash;meaning that [snaps fingers] right now you can
have a shift of perception, where your confidence in your definition of
a thing gives way to a clear experience of the divinity of the piece of
glass on that glass tabletop.

When everything is going well, when you have managed to behave in such a
way, that with minor applications of guilt, you&rsquo;ve been able to
get your brother or sister to be pleasant and cooperate with you, then
you say, &ldquo;I&rsquo;m a nice guy. I&rsquo;m happy. Things are going
smooth. You never see me get upset.&rdquo; You say, &ldquo;I work on a
pretty even keel, everybody will tell you that.&rdquo;

Come on &hellip; just upset your apple-cart at any given moment and Mr.
Nice Guy or Mrs. Nice Guy will be gone, and the bitch or the bastard
that you&rsquo;ve been underneath all the time but didn&rsquo;t have to
show because everything was going smoothly, will come out.

Now is that the truth about you? No it&rsquo;s not. But it is
what&rsquo;s at the bottom of the way you&rsquo;re living your life and
experiencing your life when you&rsquo;ve said, &ldquo;There&rsquo;s no
God. I&rsquo;m here &hellip; I&rsquo;ve been given free will. I&rsquo;m
here to do whatever I imagine to do. I&rsquo;m here to be ultimately
creative&mdash;as creative as possible. I&rsquo;m here on my own.&rdquo;
You see. And that premise is false!

Now are you going to wait until your apple-cart is upset and Mr. Nice
Guy disappears and you say, [snaps fingers] &ldquo;Yea, Raj was right! I
can see it clearly now. I&rsquo;m not Mr. Nice Guy. It was all an act
when nobody was pushing my buttons, my apple-cart wasn&rsquo;t upset,
everybody was being nice to me and my employment of guilt in controlling
them was done skillfully enough so that they didn&rsquo;t notice it, you
see.

Now you can either wait for that dastardly experience, or you can say
without that happening, that you&rsquo;re going to use every opportunity
you have all day long when things are going well, to abandon the premise
that you&rsquo;re an independent, autonomous entity having been given
free will and with a sort of command to be as creative and original as
possible with the greatest beneficence possible. You&rsquo;re going to
have to be willing to abandon that. Because no matter how nicely it can
be said, it&rsquo;s a definition of someone who uses their body to
communicate, that constitutes no communication, and uses his mind to be
private when it constitutes a universal blast of experience.

You want to stop that because it blocks communication. It blocks the
experience of communion&mdash;all embracing communion, the holy instant
and communication.

I tell you, this chapter that we&rsquo;re reading, is the most important
chapter. It is loaded with so many stimuli to trigger you Awake.

So, I&rsquo;m going to suggest that this coming week you read ahead this
next section. It will make a great deal of sense considering what
we&rsquo;ve talked about tonight. And I will have plenty more to say
about it next week. And your study or your consideration of what it is
saying in light of what I&rsquo;ve shared tonight will lay the
groundwork for more rapid assimilation or embrace of the truth and
perhaps sudden losses of control in which the holy instant is
experienced.

I love you all. And I tell you the bad news because it&rsquo;s the fly
in your soup. And you need to know it&rsquo;s there so you can ask for a
fresh bowl of soup.

I look forward to being with you all next week.

