---
title: Jul 25, 2009
ref: "T15.7 The Holy Instant and Communication"
alink: "/acim/text/15/chap1507/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

To make things easier, I&rsquo;m not going to begin reading at the
beginning of the section, but the second to the last paragraph in the
section just before, The Holy Instant and Real Relationships. What we
will be reading from the beginning of the section will be stated as a
preamble to what I&rsquo;m going to read right now. Reading this now
will help the preamble settle better, digest more easily&hellip; make
more sense.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Forgiveness &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; this is the key &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Forgiveness lies in communication as surely as damnation lies in guilt.
</div>

This section is entitled, The Holy Instant and Communication.
Communication is key to Awakening and it&rsquo;s the opposite of
damnation.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Forgiveness lies in communication as surely as damnation lies in guilt.
It is the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s teaching function to instruct those who
believe that communication is damnation that communication is SALVATION.
</div>

Why would the Holy Spirit need to teach &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; those who believe that communication is damnation that
communication is SALVATION.
</div>

Under what circumstances would one think that communication would
constitute damnation?

It&rsquo;s very simple. Communication takes away the supposed authority
or capacity to act powerfully but autonomously. It takes that away. It
takes power away. Better stated: It takes false power away.

Anyone who has been enjoying any degree of success in their life is for
the most part, enjoying it because of the successful practice of power.
The success has not been the result of communication. It has not been
the result of communion. It has not been the result of allowing for and
desiring to have, or shall I say, desiring to have and allowing for the
holy instant in which joining occurs with the Father&mdash;with That
which Moves and by its Movement, constitutes Creation, including every
single one of you and everything.

Now communication is obviously damnation if one&rsquo;s power and
authority is usurped or taken away, if one&rsquo;s ability to be
successful as the direct result of his own actions. That&rsquo;s
dangerous. That&rsquo;s the loss of everything essential. It will curse
you&mdash;the one who does it&mdash;to no longer being able to exercise
authority and create success. Create &hellip; what is it? Not just
respectability but reality for himself&mdash;to be a puppet without
strings who is a real boy now, or a real girl now.

So that&rsquo;s why communication can be seen as damnation. It would
take away every opportunity you have to become a real boy and a real
girl&mdash;to become actual instead of orphans.

So again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Forgiveness lies in communication as surely as damnation lies in guilt.
</div>

Guilt &hellip; well, if in order to be successful, you must not engage
in real communication, you must instead, pretend to communicate by means
of your bodies which can&rsquo;t actually communicate at all, as we
discussed last week. If you are caught in this context, where you must
use your body to communicate for the purpose of authenticating yourself,
you are assuming a position you don&rsquo;t have. And the attempt to
assume it and get others to believe you is a frightful task. It&rsquo;s
one that makes any good ego nervous.

And, as we also have discussed, when you got your divorce from your
Father, when you said, &ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;d rather see it my way, I
would rather do it my way, I would rather define what everything
is,&rdquo; you lost the conscious awareness of your indestructible
eternality&mdash;your sovereignty&mdash;and what replaced it were the
two partners again: Fear and guilt. And because, as we&rsquo;ve also
discussed before, it&rsquo;s too hard to bear the burden of guilt for
assuming a state of existence that the Father didn&rsquo;t give you and
that you&rsquo;re having to create out of whole cloth, that guilt is too
hard to bear. So it gets projected out: &ldquo;It&rsquo;s her fault!
It&rsquo;s his fault! It&rsquo;s the circumstance&rsquo;s fault!
It&rsquo;s the President&rsquo;s fault! It&rsquo;s the fault of whoever
is in authority and has jurisdiction over me.&rdquo;

And so, in the projection of guilt &ldquo;out there,&rdquo; blaming
everyone and everything else, you have to have some means of exercising
some control so that your vulnerability is lessened. And the only tool
you really have to use to coerce and manipulate your brothers is guilt.

Now, since fear and guilt go together, you can also use fear but always
in the end, the reason you&rsquo;re using it is to affirm and
substantiate the experience of guilt in your brother, so that your
brother will acquiesce to you and behave the way you want him to behave.

So that&rsquo;s why it says here &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Forgiveness lies in communication as surely as damnation lies in guilt.
It is the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s teaching function to instruct those who
believe that communication is damnation that communication is SALVATION.
</div>

You see, it&rsquo;s no small task, because it&rsquo;s not just an idea
&hellip; &ldquo;Oh&hellip; oh, well &hellip; communication doesn&rsquo;t
have to be damnation, communication can be salvation &hellip; my
goodness, what a concept! I get it!&rdquo;

No &hellip; it&rsquo;s not an idea to be &ldquo;gotten.&rdquo;
It&rsquo;s a way of being that has to shift. It&rsquo;s a whole way of
being that has to shift. So the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s task, we will say,
is not an easy one because you&rsquo;re not just shifting ideas,
you&rsquo;re having to abandon values that you have brought into play
that your assertion of authority through the skillful use of guilt
brings credibility to you, brings respect to you.

And if you exercise the laying on of guilt subtly enough and skillfully
enough, your brother will think that you have loved him, your sister
will think you have loved her and that the reason he or she is standing
in support of you is certainly not because you&rsquo;re a skillful
employer of guilt, which, at the bottom line, is usury and is only for
self-protection. Nevertheless, that is the way it&rsquo;s working. That
is the way it works outside of the holy instant &hellip; outside of
communication &hellip; outside of communion.

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s teaching function to instruct those who
believe that communication is damnation that communication is SALVATION.
And He will do so, for the power of God in Him AND you is joined in REAL
relationship, so holy and so strong that it can overcome even THIS
without fear. It is through the holy instant that what seems impossible
is ACCOMPLISHED, making it evident that it is NOT impossible.
</div>

Now I promise you that every single one of you, as you step up to this
point of learning, will find yourself feeling that this shift is
impossible. Don&rsquo;t be surprised by it.

Don&rsquo;t take it seriously &hellip; don&rsquo;t take it seriously!

You are going to have to stand in the face of a very clear inner
conviction that it&rsquo;s impossible, and a fear that comes along with
the intent to get past this impasse. And it would be very hard to do if
there were no one here to tell you that what you&rsquo;re facing is a
bluff&mdash;a bluff period, nothing else. And that you must be willing
to hang in there with your intent to establish communication, to have
the joining, to absolutely neglect to fall back upon your habits of
thinking. Because you don&rsquo;t want a single thought you&rsquo;ve had
that hasn&rsquo;t Wakened you, when you can have an idea from the Mind
of God in your mind that constitutes an experience of Oneness with the
Father&mdash;with your Source.

And in that experience of unity, you find yourself unified with every
single one of your brothers and sisters and everything as well
throughout the Universe.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is through the holy instant that what seems impossible is
ACCOMPLISHED, making it evident that it is NOT impossible. In the holy
instant guilt holds NO attraction, since communication has been
restored.
</div>

Now I&rsquo;m going to give you a little hint: If you simply sit down
and do a meditation and move into your peace, if you had been
experiencing guilt, you&rsquo;ll find that in that peace&mdash;in your
meditation&mdash;it&rsquo;s gone, whether it seems to you as though you
have established communication with anything or not.

That should be helpful in conveying to you from an experience that
you&rsquo;ve had, that guilt is not fixed. Guilt is not absolute. Guilt
can disappear without the cause of the guilt having been corrected. And
I&rsquo;m going to say, without the cause of the guilt trip that has
been laid upon you, has been corrected. If the one laying the guilt trip
upon you has not stopped, that cannot inhibit you from
meditating&mdash;moving into your peace and finding the guilt gone.

Now, if the guilt is something you have been employing and you are
feeling guilty because some degree of conscience has come into play, and
it&rsquo;s beginning to wear you down, it&rsquo;s beginning to cause you
to be ineffective&mdash;immobilized&mdash;once again, if you will
meditate and move into your peace, you will find the guilt gone, you
will find that which has been immobilizing you, gone. That&rsquo;s not
the end of it though, because joining, communication has to be
established, else you&rsquo;re still in the orphanage, you&rsquo;re
still claiming to be an orphan and you will still behave as though you
are one.

You must join with the Holy Spirit. You must join with that which is
nothing more than your right Mind. In that joining peace comes. In that
joining guilt disappears. In that joining the experience of
vulnerability vanishes. And, you can either get stuck there in peace
that is just being immobilized in ignorance, or it can be the place
where you step across the threshold and actually, as a result of inquiry
made by you to the Father or to the Holy Spirit&mdash;inquiry is
made&mdash;and you listen with rapt attention for the answer, until you
hear the answer. Then communication is established and then the
immobilization vanishes.

Movement in your mind, movement of you and your experience occurs free
of your false beliefs, free of your mutually-agreed-upon-definitions
that all of you have used to keep each other in control. And because you
are experiencing everything as it is, and experiencing it clearly, you
are able to, for lack of better words, dance with Life because you can
see It and you can move with It, and you can respond to and with It in a
dance, in an involvement that is pure because no concepts or mutual
agreements are getting in the way anymore.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is through the holy instant that what seems impossible is
ACCOMPLISHED, making it evident that it is NOT impossible. In the holy
instant guilt holds NO attraction, since communication has been
restored. And guilt, whose ONLY purpose is to disrupt communication, has
no function here.
</div>

Interesting? Guilt&rsquo;s only function is to disrupt communication.
And you thought that its purpose was to get people in line, to get them
straightened out, to do the only thing that would work, to get them to
knuckle under and stop doing what disturbs you, or even do something
altruistic, &ldquo;You&rsquo;ll rot in hell if you don&rsquo;t do
something altruistic! Man if you don&rsquo;t be kind to her, I
won&rsquo;t ever speak to you again.&rdquo;

No, communication is very important here, because communication is the
evidence that you have embraced and embodied the truth that you&rsquo;re
not alone.

Oh-h, you did that damned thing &hellip; that thing that damned you. You
gave up the right to be alone. You gave up the right to be the
authorizer. You gave up what made you able to create success for
yourself. And what was the awful result? That you found, that in your
union with everything&mdash;beyond your belief&mdash;you found that you
fit in. You found that you belonged. No small thing. You found yourself
being and not having the sensation of being out of your skin, or a
stranger on a strange planet&mdash;somebody who didn&rsquo;t belong,
somebody who just needs to wait it out and put up with &ldquo;this
lifetime,&rdquo; where you shouldn&rsquo;t be at all until you get back
where you&rsquo;re supposed to be. Misery-misery-misery.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Here &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in the holy instant &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; there is no concealment, and no private thoughts.

Here &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in communion &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; there is no concealment, and no private thoughts.
</div>

That&rsquo;s your salvation. That&rsquo;s what you&rsquo;re looking for.

Now I&rsquo;m going to back up to the previous page in the Sparkly Book,
the second full paragraph:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Whenever you are angry, you can be sure that you have formed a special
relationship which the ego has &ldquo;blessed,&rdquo; for anger IS its
blessing. Anger takes many forms, but it cannot long deceive those who
will learn that love brings no guilt at all, and what brings guilt
cannot be love, and MUST be anger.
</div>

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Anger takes many forms, but it cannot long deceive those who will learn
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; who are willing to learn, who are receptive to the fact
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; that love brings no guilt at all, and what brings guilt cannot
be love, and MUST be anger. ALL anger is nothing more than an attempt to
make someone feel guilty, and this attempt is the ONLY basis which the
ego accepts for special relationships. Guilt is the only need the ego
has, and as long as you identify with it, guilt will REMAIN attractive
to you.
</div>

&ldquo;Well, hell, why shouldn&rsquo;t it look attractive to me?
It&rsquo;s worked very well for me for years &hellip; course, I
don&rsquo;t call it guilt. But it is easy for me to play on other
people&rsquo;s inclination to think that there&rsquo;s something wrong
with them, to get them to do things that benefit them so that they will
do things that benefit me, or if I can&rsquo;t manage to set something
up that benefits them, I can at least get them to do things that benefit
me.&rdquo;

Now, we&rsquo;re going to go back to the beginning of this section:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*The Holy Instant and Communication*

Beyond the poor attraction of the special love relationship and ALWAYS
obscured by it, is the powerful attraction of the Father for his Son.
There is no other love that can satisfy you, because there IS no other
love. This is the ONLY love that is fully given and fully returned.[^]1
</div>

Now that last sentence may not make much sense to you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is the ONLY love that is fully given and fully returned.
</div>

Well you can imagine that maybe it might be fully given to you, but the
part about being fully returned &hellip; ummm &hellip; what&rsquo;s
that? How&rsquo;s that work?

Well it doesn&rsquo;t work from the orphan mentality. And that&rsquo;s
why it seems unclear to you at the moment. This is a statement of the
ultimate and the primitive truth:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is no other love that can satisfy you because there IS no other
love. This is the ONLY love that is fully given and fully returned.
</div>

When you are in communion, when you are in communication with the Holy
Spirit, the Father, the Father&rsquo;s Love is received and returned.
It&rsquo;s a mutual admiration society, if you will. And it isn&rsquo;t
one that you engage in out of choice, really, where you could say,
&ldquo;Oh, today I&rsquo;ll return it and tomorrow I won&rsquo;t.&rdquo;
It&rsquo;s just purely spontaneous eternal Love.

This is the only true Love. It always has been the only true Love. And
while you are experiencing what seems to be love and hate, but no such
thing as pure eternal Love, it&rsquo;s still the only true Love there
is. And you will come back into the conscious experience of it. That is
the whole point.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Being complete, it asks nothing. Being wholly pure, everyone joined in
it HAS everything.
</div>

You see, this is why communication is not damnation but salvation.
Because everyone joined in it has everything. Not in the sense of
possession, but in the sense of unseparated presence with everything and
experiencing the unseparated presence of everything with you, so that it
is a mutual sharing that really constitutes a conscious experience of
integrity, meaning, inseparability&mdash;togetherness. And again, a
togetherness in Movement&mdash;a dance&mdash;a universal dance.
That&rsquo;s why it&rsquo;s salvation and not really damnation.

You may have lost the apparent capacity to act autonomously, but you
also lost your unconciousness of your wholeness and your inseparability
from everything in which you lacked nothing, in which you lack nothing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Being wholly pure, everyone joined in it HAS everything. This is not the
basis for ANY relationship in which the ego enters. For every
relationship on which the ego embarks IS special. The ego establishes
relationships only to GET something. And it would keep the giver bound
to itself through guilt.
</div>

Really lousy, huh &hellip; really unkind &hellip; really a miserable
state of existence to be in for the &ldquo;getter&rdquo; and the
&ldquo;giver,&rdquo; because you&rsquo;re both stuck in a state of lack
that it isn&rsquo;t your Birthright to be experiencing. And whatever hit
or thrill you get from playing the part of the &ldquo;getter&rdquo; and
the &ldquo;giver&rdquo; is empty&mdash;doesn&rsquo;t stand with any
meaning whatsoever in the face of the universal conscious experience of
Being, which is part of communication.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is impossible for the ego to enter into any relationship without
anger, for the ego believes that anger makes FRIENDS. This is not its
statement, but it IS its purpose. For the ego really BELIEVES that it
can get and keep BY MAKING GUILTY.
</div>

Now when it&rsquo;s put in those words you all understand it &hellip;
you really do all understand it.

Guilt is a truly effective means of getting things done or getting what
you want. And if you don&rsquo;t think that guilt is the only means you
use to get something done, no matter how subtly or with great finesse
you employ the use of guilt, just ask yourself &hellip; [chuckle] just
ask yourself how often do you actually sit down and go into the holy
instant and ask of the Father what the truth is, so that you might give
from there?

Oh, I know, you do that all the time&mdash;and it&rsquo;s only once in
awhile that you employ guilt&mdash;cause it&rsquo;s so easy &hellip;
it&rsquo;s so easy to go into the holy instant, right? You do it all the
time.

If you&rsquo;re not doing that, there&rsquo;s only one other way to make
anything happen and that&rsquo;s through guilt. And so if you&rsquo;re
not doing the holy instant, if I may put it that way, then you are doing
guilt!

Now, you could feel really guilty about that. But that&rsquo;s not my
point. My point is to just express simple clarity, so you can say,
&ldquo;Wow, I had no idea that that&rsquo;s what I was doing, but I can
see that I must be doing that, because I&rsquo;m very seldom going into
the holy instant and inquiring of God and hearing&mdash;which is proof
of communication&mdash;and having my whole perspective change so that
everything I do is a blessing, a true blessing.&rdquo;

So if you can see that you&rsquo;re not doing that, then you can
back-off and not make as heavy an investment in the use of guilt and you
can find greater justification for doing the &ldquo;two-step,&rdquo; for
stopping before you act and saying, &ldquo;Father, what&rsquo;s the
truth here? Father, what is appropriate here? Father, what is really
happening here? Father, what will nullify ignorance and its effects
right here?&rdquo;

So when you read:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is impossible for the ego to enter into any relationship without
anger&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and you say, &ldquo;Well, that&rsquo;s ridiculous, many
relationships I get into without anger &hellip;&rdquo;

And then, that it says &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; for the ego believes that anger makes FRIENDS.
</div>

Well, what jerk believes that? None of you! No one.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is not its statement, but it IS its purpose. For the ego really
BELIEVES that it can get and keep BY MAKING GUILTY. This is its ONE
attraction;&hellip;
</div>

Don&rsquo;t feel bad about this, just decide to give your attention in
new directions, the direction of the holy instant&mdash;the willingness
to become present in the now and back-off from your spontaneous
assumptions and all of your collected thoughts that you use to justify
behaving so as to convey to everyone who you are now.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is its ONE attraction;&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that the ego &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; BELIEVES that it can get and keep BY MAKING GUILTY. This is its
ONE attraction; an attraction so weak that it would have no hold at all,
except that no-one RECOGNIZES it.
</div>

I mean, when I started reading this paragraph no one recognized it. Now
you can see, you can at least recognize it even if you forget an hour
from now. You have recognized it and you&rsquo;re no longer totally
ignorant, and therefore, you&rsquo;re a step closer to freedom from it
and its effects.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For the ego always SEEMS to attract through love, and has no attraction
at all to anyone who perceives that it attracts through GUILT.

&hellip; the ego always SEEMS to attract through love, and has
no attraction at all to anyone who perceives that it attracts through
GUILT.
</div>

In other words, if you see what&rsquo;s going on, you&rsquo;re not
attracted to it. If you don&rsquo;t see what is going on, and your
heartstrings are pulled&mdash;which I&rsquo;m going to say are your
guilt-strings&mdash;your guilt-strings are pulled and you acquiesce, and
because it was so skillfully done that you thought it was your
heartstrings, you yield and you become a puppet of a user. And you
suffer from your ignorance.

This all sounds very heavy handed and that&rsquo;s why I wanted to begin
with the next to the last paragraph so that you might understand that
this is a contrast to the goal&mdash;the ultimate goal of communication
or communion&mdash;because it&rsquo;s the blockage of communication that
keeps you from the holy instant and keeps you in the orphanage, keeps
you suffering.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The sick attraction of guilt must be recognized for what it IS.
</div>

See, if it said, &ldquo;The great attraction to the wonders that guilt
can perform, are &hellip;&rdquo; you would all be listening. You might
waver a little bit in your enthusiasm, but you would listen just in case
you might hear something useful. You really would. But to say:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The sick attraction of guilt &hellip;
</div>

Wow, that&rsquo;s depressing isn&rsquo;t it. The attraction of guilt is
sick. It&rsquo;s mentally deranged. It&rsquo;s insane. And to be
attracted to it is not to be in your right Mind. So call a spade a
spade.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The sick attraction of guilt must be recognized for what it IS.
</div>

Sick!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For having been made real to you, it is essential to look at it clearly,
and by withdrawing your INVESTMENT in it, to learn to let it go.
</div>

In other words, to begin to make the shift in the way you&rsquo;re
being.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
No-one would choose to let go what he believes has value. Yet the
attraction of guilt has value to you only because you have NOT looked at
what it is, and have judged it completely in the dark.
</div>

You see, everybody&rsquo;s been doing it. And as you grew up, everybody
helped you understand how to do it. Everyone showed you how somebody
else was doing it to you. And they showed you how to do it to them. And
all the while nothing occurred to cause you to question whether the
premise for your conscious awareness of being was correct or
not&mdash;at least not immediately&mdash;and so being an orphan and
using guilt to accomplish things, and becoming a better and better
independent authoritative presence, all of that seemed unquestionably
natural and not worthy of challenge.

So guilt had value for you. And it didn&rsquo;t make you feel guilty,
because it was the standard operating procedure.

But the point is, that it left you empty of your Birthright, empty of
your freedom, empty of the experience of your wholeness, and mostly,
absent the experience of invulnerability. And without the experience of
invulnerability available to you&mdash;even though it&rsquo;s your
Birthright&mdash;you exist in a state of fear and guilt that generate
the use of fear and guilt in order to survive, which actually secures
you more and more solidly in ignorance.

We&rsquo;re just undoing that. We are constantly &hellip; I am
constantly confronting you with a different view, another way of looking
at it. And not just another way of looking at it, but the way of
stepping out of ignorance entirely, so that you&rsquo;re able to
experience everything from innate intelligence, flawless intelligence
established in you by That which formed you and withheld nothing of what
It was from you in Its forming you: The Father, God, the Life Principle
&hellip; whatever you want to call It.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As we bring &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the value of guilt, or your belief in its value.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As we bring it to light, your only question will be why it was you EVER
wanted it. You have nothing to lose by looking open-eyed at this, for
ugliness such as this belongs not in your holy mind. The host of God CAN
have no real investment here.
</div>

Now, I must touch on something that we discussed last week &hellip;
bring it forward again: If you use the body for communication when it is
not a means of communication, because it isn&rsquo;t matter, you cause
it to be experienced as matter&mdash;governed by laws of physics,
apparently capable of sin, disease and death.

As long as you think that you are a body with a mind somewhere inside
it, you are trapped. You are literally immobilized and you try to use
the body to communicate. You use it to communicate and you also use it
to secure its ongoing existence. In other words, you will use your body
to defend it against it being damaged by someone else attempting to
damage it.

Now the actual fact which we discussed last week is, that there is no
matter whatsoever, whether we&rsquo;re talking about a table, a piece of
wood, a toenail, a thumb, a body, a planet. It&rsquo;s all idea. They
are all ideas&mdash;the present manifestation of Living Mind being
Conscious, and by virtue of being Conscious, having All to be Conscious
of.

The Holy Instant and Communication is being discussed because it is only
the communication of ideas that constitutes communication. And ideas are
of God and are therefore, holy. And so, part of this shift of Being that
you are moving into involves shifting from body identification to Mind
identification. It&rsquo;s only as Mind that everything can function
without the governance of the laws of physics in which entropy[^2] is
inherent and unavoidable. Entropy is impossible to Mind. Entropy is
impossible to Creation. So if you don&rsquo;t want to experience the
various forms of entropy that you seem to suffer from now, you must be
willing to make this shift from body identification to Mind
identification.

Remember The Holy Instant and Communication. There is now, as opposed to
past, present, and future. You let your attention be in the now. And
then you let it be in the instant of now, which means you abandon
thinking about tomorrow, you abandon thinking about what happened
yesterday, and you let yourself be totally present in the instant
you&rsquo;re in. Without all the thinking going on, you&rsquo;re
confronted with a sizeless experience of peace.

The experience is one of Mind. You can still hear everything that is
going on. If you move your hands you can feel your fingers. But
there&rsquo;s perfect peace and there is an awareness that your
environment is Mind and that all form is embraced within the conscious
awareness that you are experiencing.

This is the groundwork for communication, the communication that this
section is about, which primes you for the influx of, we&rsquo;ll say,
the divine Will, the Father&rsquo;s perspective and not damnation, but
the Father&rsquo;s Love embracing you, surrounding you, supporting you,
blessing you, calling you Its own and presenting you with an undeniable
experience of belonging and of fitting in with nothing lacking, and
again, at the threshold of being able to engage in the dance of Life,
infinite, moving conscious involvement.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
We [have] said before that the ego attempt to maintain and increase
guilt, but in such a way that you do not recognize what it would do to
YOU. For it is the ego&rsquo;s fundamental doctrine that what you do to
others YOU HAVE ESCAPED.
</div>

That&rsquo;s right, you think that if you make everyone else guilty you
escape the experience of guilt for believing that you are something
you&rsquo;re not&mdash;believing that you&rsquo;re an orphan, believing
that you have a capacity to act independently and that you don&rsquo;t
need anyone.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego wishes NO-ONE well.
</div>

Certainly, the ego wishes no one unconditionally well, that would be a
little bit too much intimacy. You wish everyone well a little bit, if it
suits you, if it meets your need &hellip; but don&rsquo;t get too close,
don&rsquo;t let your privacy be interfered with or disrupted, because
it&rsquo;s through the practice of it that you manage to become a real
boy or a real girl.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego wishes NO-ONE well. Yet its survival depends on your belief that
YOU are exempt from its evil intentions. It counsels, therefore, that if
you are host to IT, it will enable you to direct the anger that it holds
outward, thus PROTECTING you.
</div>

And mind you, remember again, that the only way any of this works or
makes sense or seems functional, is within the context of your believing
that you are a body and that the body is matter, and that Mind just
happens to be the peak evolutionary result, which of course, man is the
epitome of, you see.

Bullshit! It&rsquo;s not working! It&rsquo;s not really working for you!
You don&rsquo;t have to keep honoring it, and reinforcing it by honoring
it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It counsels, therefore, that if you are host to IT&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the ego &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; it will enable you to direct the anger that it holds outward,
thus PROTECTING you. And thus it embarks on an endless, unrewarding
chain of special relationships, forged out of anger, and dedicated to
but one insane belief; that the more anger you invest OUTSIDE yourself,
the safer YOU become.
</div>

Now, can you do anything to improve the situation? Is there anyway for
you to continue to be or conceive of yourself as a body that
communicates with other bodies by means of being a body?

(Paul: I&rsquo;m sorry. I lost it.)

There simply is no benefit in continuing to operate in a context that is
flawed, in which there is no truth.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is this chain that binds the Son of God to guilt, and it is this
chain the Holy Spirit would remove from his holy mind.
</div>

The Son of God&rsquo;s holy Mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For the chain of savagery belongs not around the chosen host of God, who
CANNOT makes himself host to the ego. In the name of his release, and in
the Name of Him &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; Who would release him, let us look more closely at the
relationships which the ego contrives, and let the Holy Spirit judge
them truly. For it is certain that, if you will LOOK at them, you will
offer them gladly to Him.
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit, that which is nothing more than your right
Mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What HE can make of them you do not know, but you will become willing to
find out, if you are willing, first, to perceive what YOU have made of
them.
</div>

I&rsquo;m going to say, &ldquo;If you&rsquo;re willing to perceive
first, that you have made of them what they are.&rdquo;

You see, because you think you are thinkers you have thought about
everything, at least everything that&rsquo;s gotten your attention. And
you have, through the use of your thinking, arrived at an opinion, or an
evaluation, or a definition about whatever it was that you gave your
attention to. And then you have believed that your definition was what
the thing was, or who the brother was. And you have gone through your
life, as I&rsquo;ve said before, apparently responding to your world,
but actually responding to the definition of your world that you have
set in place, for it.

That&rsquo;s just the way you thought it worked. And so that&rsquo;s
just what you did. So, now someone says, &ldquo;You must be willing to
look at what you made of them.&rdquo; You say, &ldquo;Well, I
didn&rsquo;t make anything of them.&rdquo; But you did. And if
you&rsquo;re willing to look at what you made of them, or if
you&rsquo;re willing to look at just the fact that you made them up, and
used your definition instead of them as the thing you respond to, you
have been out of touch with Life. And correction of your perception
needs to occur so that you&rsquo;re not stumbling where dancing ought to
be happening.

Again, referring to the Son of God:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In the name of his release, and in the Name of Him Who would release
him, let us look more closely at the relationships which the ego
contrives&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; now, that doesn&rsquo;t mean, let&rsquo;s study the awful
facts. It means, here is a wonderful thing to do, here is a wonderful
avenue to move down that is an avenue of release. And it will be an
avenue of release because it will not convict you of anything and
incarcerate you and immobilize you from the dance of Life. By being
willing to go down this avenue and &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; look more closely at the relationships which the ego contrives,
and let the Holy Spirit judge them truly &hellip;.
</div>

&hellip; it will be a joyous thing that will result &hellip; in what?
Salvation, rather than damnation.

So &hellip; so, when you read this, read it with a friendly attitude,
read it as though it&rsquo;s good news &hellip; because it is.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For it is certain that, if you will LOOK at them, you will offer them
gladly to Him. What HE can make of them you do not know, but you will
become willing to find out, if you are willing, first, to perceive what
YOU have made of them.
</div>

Now we&rsquo;re going to stop there. But I want to end with what we
started with, so that it feels like what we&rsquo;re talking about is a
blessing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Forgiveness lies in communication as surely as damnation lies in guilt.
It is the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s teaching function &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and I will say, it is the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s glad teaching
function &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; to instruct those who believe that communication is damnation
that communication is SALVATION.
</div>

Communication is you, no longer being in isolation. Communication is
you, knowing to the core of your Being, that you&rsquo;re not alone.
Communication is you experiencing the fact that you fit in, that you
belong, and that fulfillment, not damnation is yours to be
experienced&mdash;not a pipe dream, not a fantasy.

I look forward to being with you next week.

And don&rsquo;t shy away from this. Don&rsquo;t become immobilized for
fear of loss of something, or for fear of becoming in receipt of
something that you&rsquo;re not sure you want. And don&rsquo;t let the
ego suggest that whatever it is, because it will be so grand, it will be
totally overwhelming to you and drive you insane.

Embrace the holy instant.

Last week I suggested you read this section that we started reading
tonight. This week I&rsquo;m going to ask you to go back to the
beginning of the Chapter we&rsquo;re reading and read it from the
beginning to this point. You&rsquo;re going to find it so much fuller of
meaning than it did a few months ago when we started reading it. And it
will be confirming and reassuring to you that you are learning. And I
want you to have that experience.

[^1]: T15.7 The Holy Instant and Communication
[^2]: "'entropy': Inevitable and steady deterioration of a system or society."

