---
title: Aug 8, 2009
ref: "T15.7 The Holy Instant and Communication"
alink: "/acim/text/15/chap1507/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

&ldquo;Our Father &hellip; Our Father.&rdquo; That sort of undoes
isolation right there, right?

&ldquo;Our Father, Who art in Heaven, hallowed be Thy Name. Thy Kingdom
come, Thy Will be done&rdquo; &hellip; where? &ldquo;On Earth, as it is
in Heaven.&rdquo;[^1]

That&rsquo;s another way of talking about translating radical idealism
into practical realism. You see? It&rsquo;s not such a novel idea, after
all. But it does stimulate the words, &ldquo;translating radical
idealism into practical realism,&rdquo; &hellip; does render the meaning
more meaningful. It stimulates a higher and greater expectation than the
words &ldquo;Thy Will be done on Earth as it is in Heaven.&rdquo; And
it&rsquo;s important for you to have words to use that stimulate you
further than you have been stimulated in the past.

Now I know that this last week some of you did pay attention, not so
much to how many times you were open to and conscious of a need for
things to be translated from radical idealism to practical realism, and
I&rsquo;m aware that there are of those of you who didn&rsquo;t even
think about it, not really because you were neglectful but because your
daily experience engrossed you quickly and got your attention and sucked
you in. And you just began to deal with your week out of habit with
whatever degree of authority you have brought into play in your life.
And actually, it&rsquo;s right now, as I&rsquo;m talking to you, that
you&rsquo;re realizing that you missed out on a dimension of your week
that you could&rsquo;ve had.

I&rsquo;m not scolding you in any way. I understand completely. But this
week I&rsquo;m going to give you the same task, if you will. This week
I&rsquo;m going to ask you to put a note on your refrigerator, or on the
wall beside your toilet, or on the dashboard of your car, or on the
inside of your appointment book. Put a note to remind yourself because
it is going to make a difference if you take the time, many times a day,
to look at whatever is going on and acknowledge that there&rsquo;s more
going on than the meanings you&rsquo;ve applied to everything
that&rsquo;s happening.

There are things going on that are radically ideal. There are things
going on that are the Kingdom of Heaven in action because there really
is nothing else in action at any given moment. And so, there is
something radically ideal right there in front of you at any given
moment for you to be experiencing clearly without distortion, without
distraction.

Now, guilt and fear and frustration and anger, these are all
well-established habits that you&rsquo;re going to have to break.

You&rsquo;re going to have to break them because it&rsquo;s time to Wake
up. It&rsquo;s time not to be ignorant of the truth. It&rsquo;s time to
no longer be suffering from ignorance.

&ldquo;Oh, gee, I&rsquo;m not suffering from ignorance. I&rsquo;m doing
quite well, you know. Things happen in my life. I cope with them well. I
cope with them intelligently. And as a general rule, I always come out
on top and everyone around me is blessed in some way as a result of the
principled way in which I handle things and the value I give to
principle and love and beneficence, and the fact that I expect to see
those things surface and manifest in my life and in the lives of those
around me.&rdquo;

But you know what? You can&rsquo;t afford to be too pleased with
yourselves.

Now why do I say that? I say that because if you are too satisfied with
yourselves, if you are too comfortable, you will have a lower level of
curiosity that you bring to every moment of your being conscious. And,
with a lower level of curiosity, there&rsquo;s no way you&rsquo;re going
to have the experience of radical idealism being translated into
practical realism that is, for lack of better words, miraculous,
indicative of the Presence of God, indicative of the Kingdom of Heaven
instead of material existence as you&rsquo;ve been viewing it.

None of you realizes the extent to which that which is less than the
best, that which is less than optimal, is valued&mdash;and pleasure is
gotten from valuing it.

For example: Ignorance instead of omniscience. Omniscience is to know
everything. Ignorance is to not know everything &hellip; but what?
Instead of not knowing everything and being uncomfortable and insisting
upon getting back to your Birthright, which is omniscience &hellip; what
happens? You look at ignorance and you say, &ldquo;Ah-h, this means
there is much for me to discover. Why, I could discover things that will
change life on earth. I could be another Galileo. I could be another
Newton. I could be another Einstein.&rdquo;

You find great value in the presence of ignorance because it implies the
opportunity for discovery. And you value discovery. You value discovery,
why? Because it&rsquo;s exciting to be involved in discovery. It
invigorates anyone who&rsquo;s discovering something for the first time,
even if it&rsquo;s coming over the crest of the hill and seeing a view
that you&rsquo;ve never seen before.

Besides it being invigorating, if you are the discoverer, you get credit
for the discovery and you might get appreciation, and people might value
you for it. And at the bottom line, this contributes to your becoming a
&ldquo;real boy&rdquo; or a &ldquo;real girl&rdquo; you see, as opposed
to just an orphan.

So who would really want to experience omniscience if it takes away the
excitement of discovery, the satisfaction of being the one that
discovered it&mdash;the ego satisfaction of being the one who discovered
it&mdash;and if you&rsquo;re going to lose the admiration of your
fellowman, and if you&rsquo;re going to lose the opportunity to have far
reaching benefits to your fellowman? Who would give up such valuable
stuff in order to be omniscience, in order to know everything and have
no questions? You see. In other words, who would really want to be
Awake?

So you value ignorance more than you value being Awake. And as a result,
you will not bring into play the curiosity that is appropriate.

You see, things are a hundred and eighty degrees out of sync. You value
things. You value ignorance. You value being in the dark. You value
being an orphan, because of all the potentials for expansion that it
provides you.

But I want to bring out something here: If you were to say, &ldquo;Our
Father Who art in Heaven,&rdquo; if you would reach out, not just to
&ldquo;a God,&rdquo; but your Father, and you joined with Him and you
let His Perspective fill you because it is your native perspective,
because you are His Creation, you won&rsquo;t need to engage in
discovery for your sake, because you will stand with the Father in the
holy instant, the instant of Creation. And in that experience of the
holy instant, Being is Itself, the action of discovery. Creation is the
discovery of that which hasn&rsquo;t been before.

You think you&rsquo;re going to lose the capacity to discover things
that will make you substantial and important and valuable? No.
You&rsquo;re going to stand in the midst of Creation, involved in the
conscious Movement of Creation, by not having a mind held separate from
the Father so that you experience the Movement of Being&mdash;which is
called Creation&mdash;with the Father and find yourself at Home &hellip;
find yourself at Home.

Now that&rsquo;s the Reality. That&rsquo;s the radically ideal
translated into the practically real for you, when you indulge in and
practice the holy instant and you become free of the bondage&mdash;the
addiction to trying to make a &ldquo;real boy&rdquo; or &ldquo;real
girl&rdquo; out of yourself by valuing ignorance and the overcoming of
it.

Now there are many other areas, all of which subtly affect you or not so
subtly affect you, and which you practice consciously or unconsciously.
For example: Mortality is profitable. Mortality is a big money-maker.

What about life insurance&mdash;strange name for it&mdash;when
it&rsquo;s &ldquo;death insurance?&rdquo; It guarantees a benefit that
you will receive when you die. So you get a benefit &hellip; well not
really &hellip; everyone else you love gets a benefit when you die. But
in the meantime, your insurance agent gets a benefit for getting you to
buy death insurance. The life insurance companies are benefitted and
they become part of the engine of the economy of the country, or the
world.

If you are a senior citizen&mdash;or even if you&rsquo;re not&mdash;and
you have a wife and family and you find out you have a terminal illness,
and the terminal illness is the result of some sort of abuse that you
were the recipient of through employment, let&rsquo;s say, you can sue
the company and make money because of your mortality. And as I&rsquo;ve
brought out before, in many cases the trial goes on and on and on, and
as long as it goes on, you cannot afford to have a healing because then
you will lose the justification for the benefit.

All upside down, backward thinking. Ah-h &hellip; you can even become so
sick, as we talked about last week and the week before&mdash;demented,
confused&mdash;that you could come to the conclusion that you&rsquo;re
more valuable to your spouse dead than alive: &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t you
dare keep a life support system going and eat up all of our savings. I
want you to have all the funds available to you that you&rsquo;re going
to need. Don&rsquo;t you dare keep that plug in. I&rsquo;m more valuable
to you gone, than still here.&rdquo;

You see, I&rsquo;m going to say &hellip; is that not sick? But I know
that there are those of you who will hear what I&rsquo;m saying and know
that I&rsquo;m not comprehending the reality of the situation. I can
appreciate that also.

What I&rsquo;m trying to point out is, that you have made accommodations
for something you shouldn&rsquo;t be suffering from: Mortality. And you
need to stop doing it automatically, unthinkingly, without question!

Oh, you hear mothers say to their children, or their husbands or wives,
&ldquo;You&rsquo;re going to be the death of me yet!&rdquo; You&rsquo;ve
heard the statement, &ldquo;Think to be heard of God and speak to be
heard of men.&rdquo;

You know what? Almost always, guilt is used for two reasons: To make
someone feel guilty so that you can control them, or, and, to make
points because you are sacrificing on the behalf of someone
else&mdash;you are doing something that they don&rsquo;t deserve and
therefore, you&rsquo;re making points with God.

&ldquo;You&rsquo;ll be the death of me yet!&rdquo; which is the curse:
&ldquo;Speak to be heard of men,&rdquo; but it&rsquo;s simultaneously in
the mind &hellip; it says, &ldquo;Thank you God, you&rsquo;ll be the
death of me yet, thank God,&rdquo; because if you&rsquo;re a martyr, you
may get to sit at the right hand of God. You may be turned into a saint.
You see?

It&rsquo;s sick.

There&rsquo;s another way to be. And that&rsquo;s what we&rsquo;re
talking about week after week. Another way to be means, Be-ing a
different way, not just thinking a different way. It means breaking
habits! Are you to feel guilty because you have the habits? No, because
you&rsquo;ve been taught to have them. You didn&rsquo;t have anyone to
train you or provide you with a different perspective.

Now a different perspective is being provided. And in the process
you&rsquo;re finding out that you&rsquo;re doing things that are not
practical, that are not helpful, that are sick, that exhibit insanity.
But these things aren&rsquo;t shared with you without equal attention
being given to the fact that you have an innate, capital
&lsquo;S,&rsquo; divine Sanity that could never be taken away from you
and therefore, is still present right where you are being the activity
of consciousness, or of conscious Being that constitutes existence.

You&rsquo;re being told that there is a different perspective that is
available to you if you can break the habit of spontaneously and
habitually repeating the past.

Now, the holy instant is the threshold of escaping the past. It&rsquo;s
the threshold of escaping the habits. It&rsquo;s the threshold of your
placing your attention in a new place: In the Father or Source you
didn&rsquo;t think you had that gives you an Identity that you
didn&rsquo;t know you had.

Now we talked last week about the fact that guilt and fear ongoingly
cause frustration, which ultimately cause you to take action because of
the discomfort of it. And the action you take is expression of anger.

Again, I need to say that no matter how good your life is going, if
you&rsquo;re not Awake at this moment, you&rsquo;re still in the realm
of anger and its practice, even if it&rsquo;s only very subtle. And
that&rsquo;s why I say, don&rsquo;t become too self-satisfied, because
the use of anger must come to a stop and it won&rsquo;t if there is no
conscientious effort made.

Now continuing from where we left off:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In these insane relationships&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning the relationships where anger are used for control and
where ignorance and mortality are used to supply meaning to life.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In these insane relationships, the attraction of what you do not want
seems to be much stronger than the attraction of what you DO.
</div>

The use of anger for control works and so you use it. It&rsquo;s
attractive to you. Whatever is attractive to you, whatever you find
useful, draws to you those things that will bring it into play.
It&rsquo;s that simple.

So you have to find something new that&rsquo;s attractive &hellip; like,
&ldquo;What&rsquo;s the truth here? What is the conscious experience of
what is really going on that it&rsquo;s my Birthright to be experiencing
even though I&rsquo;m not. Father, please reveal it to me, You have my
attention, the truth has my attention.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the attraction of what you do not want seems to be much
stronger than the attraction of what you DO. For each one thinks that he
has sacrificed something to the other, and HATES him for it. Yet this is
what he thinks he WANTS. He is not in love with the other at all.
</div>

And we&rsquo;re talking about special relationships. Special
relationships are usury relationships. They are relationships used to
get you what you want. And of course, the other one in the relationship
is going to be doing the same thing. And so a healthy relationship is
one in which you each let each other have what he wants, or she wants,
without sacrificing what you think your integrity is.

And so it&rsquo;s a game. It&rsquo;s a mutual manipulation, &ldquo;You
stroke my back, I&rsquo;ll stroke yours, without my ever getting to know
you and without your ever getting to know me and without our ever being
real with each other.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He is not in love with the other at all. He merely believes he is in
love with SACRIFICE.
</div>

&ldquo;My family will be the death of me yet. By God that one needs that
family to be the death of her or the death of him yet because of the
kudos&mdash;the gold stars&mdash;that will be gotten for having
endured.&rdquo; You see.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He is not in love with the other at all. He merely believes he is in
love with SACRIFICE. And for this sacrifice, which he demanded of
HIMSELF, he demands the OTHER accept the guilt, and sacrifice himself as
well.
</div>

We talked about the fact last week that everybody thinks the ax is going
to fall, everyone thinks he or she is guilty and that sooner or later
their guilt will be found out or will be manifested in some sort of lack
or bad luck as though karma is being played out. Again, another way of
justifying sick thinking.

And what happens when you demand of the other that he sacrifice as well?
The other does sacrifice as well, because he was expecting the ax to
fall&mdash;he found the idea of axes falling, attractive. And thus, when
an ax falls, it&rsquo;s expected and not contradicted, not resisted, not
rejected. &ldquo;Of course the ax fell. It was going to sooner or later.
Things couldn&rsquo;t go smoothly indefinitely.&rdquo;

How many of you have had that very thought at one point or another?
Really, every single one of you has. If things have gone well, you know,
it&rsquo;s like, &ldquo;Well when is &hellip;&rdquo; (another saying)
&ldquo;When is the other shoe going to drop?&rdquo; You see.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Forgiveness becomes impossible, for the ego believes that to forgive
another is to LOSE him.
</div>

Now guilt is a wonderful leverage, if you can convince the other one
that he&rsquo;s actually guilty. If you can get the other one to believe
that he is guilty or if you can find one who&rsquo;s willing to believe
he&rsquo;s guilty before you even tell him what he&rsquo;s guilty for,
you have a good stooge&mdash;you have a good controlee. And as long as
guilt is in place, you have a solid relationship with that one. That
one, if you have the goods on him, is not going to do anything to cross
you. And so you have a &ldquo;bonded relationship,&rdquo; one in which
he is in bondage to you. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Forgiveness &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; which would be the opposite of holding one guilty &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; becomes impossible, for the ego believes that to forgive
another is to LOSE him.
</div>

&ldquo;Why, if I forgive him, [chuckles] he won&rsquo;t stick around. He
won&rsquo;t be my friend. I&rsquo;m nobody for anybody to be a friend
to. Nobody likes me. Nobody will like me. So if I want to have someone
in relationship with me, the only way I can do it is to find a way to
make him or her guilty and then convince them that it&rsquo;s their
pleasure to pleasure me&mdash;to take care of me, to do what I need in
exchange for which I will praise them, but not without holding them to
their guilt, you see.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Forgiveness becomes impossible, for the ego believes that to forgive
another is to LOSE him. For it is only by attack WITHOUT forgiveness
that the ego can ensure the guilt which holds all its relationships
together.
</div>

Now, all of you to one degree or another do employ these tactics. You
may not be a beginner in your Awakening and you may not be employing
these practices with the diligence or the commitment that you used to,
but you must be persistent enough to arrive at a point where
you&rsquo;re neglecting to employ these in any way, shape or form. And
that&rsquo;s what the holy instant is for.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For it is only by attack WITHOUT forgiveness that the ego can ensure the
guilt which holds all its relationships together.

Yet they only SEEM to be together. For relationships, to the ego, mean
only that BODIES are together. It is always physical closeness that the
ego demands, and it does not object where the MIND goes or what IT
thinks, for this seems unimportant.
</div>

Remember, we talked about the mind being the place where you can be
private, where communication doesn&rsquo;t occur and that the use of
bodies is where communication occurs. Again, a hundred and eighty
degrees out of sync.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As long as the body is there to receive its sacrifice, it is content. To
the ego, the mind is private, and only the BODY can be shared. Ideas are
basically of no concern&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; to the ego &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; except as they draw the body of another closer or farther. And
it is in these terms that it evaluates ideas as good or bad.
</div>

See, the only place in which ideas are given a context, an evaluation of
such as good or bad, is how effectively those ideas cause bodies to
behave together and communicate. And by means of that communication,
accomplish the bondage that&rsquo;s called a loving relationship, a
constructive relationship, a good business relationship, etc.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What makes another guilty and HOLDS him through guilt is "good."
</div>

I&rsquo;m going to ask a straightforward question and I would like each
of you in your mind to give the straightforward answer.

Are you loveable?

Or do you have to develop and use skills, whether constructive or
destructive, to get people to pay attention to you, to be with you, to
involve themselves with you?

Now the question was to you: Are you loveable? Which means, do you
believe you are loveable. Do you experience yourself as loveable? The
question wasn&rsquo;t, do other people think you&rsquo;re loveable. Be
very clear about that. It doesn&rsquo;t matter what anyone else thinks!

To you, are you loveable? Are you in your own appraisal of yourself,
your own experience of yourself, are you worthy of anyone else&rsquo;s
genuine fulfilling attention and affection and friendship?

I know sometimes you feel that you are, and sometimes you feel that you
aren&rsquo;t. But in all cases, the way you see yourself is going to
absolutely govern the way you present yourself and are present with
others. And the way you present yourself will elicit responses.

What is the holy instant for? The holy instant is for the experience of
communication with your Father or, I&rsquo;m going to say, communication
with the Holy Spirit, which is nothing more than your right Mind. And in
that communication, experiencing what you Are and who you Are&mdash;the
truth about you, so that you&rsquo;re not confused about you and
you&rsquo;re not publishing your confusion about yourself, so that when
you&rsquo;re asked, &ldquo;Are you loveable?&rdquo; there&rsquo;s no
question about it, &ldquo;Of course.&rdquo; Except when you say,
&ldquo;Of course,&rdquo; it&rsquo;s like the universe standing with you,
sings in chorus with you&hellip; &ldquo;Of course &hellip;&rdquo;

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What makes another guilty and HOLDS him through guilt is "good."
</div>

According to the up-side-down, backward thinking of the ego, the orphan.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What RELEASES him from guilt is "bad," because he would no longer
believe that bodies communicate, and so he would be "gone."
</div>

Right now you think you have a thought in your mind and no one else is
there. In your mind you think everyone else is &ldquo;gone.&rdquo; You
see. But in the up-side-down, backward thinking &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What RELEASES him &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your brother &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; from guilt is "bad," because he &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your brother &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; would no longer believe that bodies communicate, and so he
would be "gone."
</div>

In other words, in the realm of bodies he would be gone just like in the
realm of the mind you think others are gone. But a shift occurs when you
stop identifying yourself as a body and instead, allow your mind to
register with you as that context in which the experience of bodies and
all forms is occurring. Then the presence of others doesn&rsquo;t seem
to be gone &hellip; don&rsquo;t seem to be gone &hellip; others
don&rsquo;t seem to be gone any longer and mind no longer seems to be
private.

You are going to have to arrive at a point where you let your brothers
go, where you release them from your control of the presence of their
bodies in your experience, so that they will stay there and so that they
will appear to be a wonderful community, family, whatever you want to
call it&mdash;a social group that validates every member of the group by
its groupness.

Body identification is one of the habits that needs to be broken. And it
will be broken when your attention and curiosity shifts from body and
what bodies can cause to happen, to Mind.

Idea &hellip; ideal &hellip; ideals are mental &hellip; ideas are
mindful. Radical idealism is Mind, is mindful. When you shift from body
identification to mind identification, you begin to see radical idealism
being translated into practical realism, which means your every
experience &hellip; now &hellip; now &hellip; now &hellip; today
&hellip; here &hellip; here &hellip; here. You see.

It isn&rsquo;t until you let go of the control of your brothers&rsquo;
bodies through the use of guilt, that you will find your brothers and
sisters to be ever present with you in full communication, because all
of you are, for lack of better words, the Father&rsquo;s Mind Knowing
every aspect of Itself. Just as abandoning ignorance and the opportunity
that it seems to provide for discovery, just as that puts you in the
position of standing at the threshold of Creation, which is Itself
infinite discovery forever, your abandonment of your brother as body and
a thing to control by the use of body, which your ego says will
constitute a disappearance of your brother, will constitute a
replacement in which you experience your brothers and sisters
infinitely&mdash;all at once, with full comprehension and full meaning,
full communion, full brotherhood.

And so, what it appears that you will lose is miniscule, is very
unsatisfying by comparison with what will replace it &hellip; as radical
idealism is translated into practical realism.

I&rsquo;m going to end tonight by simply reading the next sentence. It
sounds like an indictment in a way, it sounds very negative. But what
we&rsquo;ve talked about has brought it into focus. I&rsquo;ll talk
about it next week. But right now I want you to be willing to sit with
it this week, because you know what? It makes the practice of
unintelligence unattractive. And I&rsquo;ve shared enough with you for
you to know that there is something to replace it. And I want you to be
with this so that you can see the unattractiveness and not want it
anymore.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Suffering and sacrifice are the gifts with which the ego would "bless"
all unions. And those who are united at its altar ACCEPT suffering and
sacrifice as the price of union. In their angry alliances, born of the
fear of loneliness and yet dedicated to the CONTINUANCE of loneliness,
they seek relief from guilt by increasing it in the OTHER. For they
believe that this decreases it in THEM. The other seems always to be
attacking and wounding them, perhaps in little ways, perhaps
"unconsciously," yet never without demand of sacrifice. The fury of
those joined at the ego&rsquo;s altar far exceeds your awareness of it.
For what the ego REALLY wants you do not realize.
</div>

We&rsquo;re reading about and considering the holy instant and
communication. It&rsquo;s like the holy instant and the answer.
We&rsquo;re discussing what the holy instant is the answer to.
Don&rsquo;t gloss it over. I want all of you to understand completely
what the holy instant and communication is the answer to, so that you
might appreciate it fully, comprehend it fully, embrace it
uninhibitedly.

I love you all. And I look forward to being with your next week.

[^1]: Mathew 6:9
[^2]: T15.7 The Holy Instant and Communication

