---
title: Aug 29, 2009
ref: "T15.7 The Holy Instant and Communication"
alink: "/acim/text/15/chap1507/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

We&rsquo;re reading from a section entitled, The Holy Instant and
Communication from a chapter entitled, The Purpose of Time. The purpose
of time is to give you the opportunity to abandon time&mdash;to get out
of time back into eternity, your Home, your starting Place, your forever
existing Place, and the apparently future Place which you will
experience as you abandon your intent to try to be independent from your
Source.

Now, I&rsquo;m going to put it this way: There is a transition that
occurs. Because you experience yourself as separate from God, because
you have intended to be separate by being an independent autonomous
agent, you&rsquo;re in a position where, if you want to return Home and
reconnect with your Father, you have to do it by means of communication
because your sense of separateness is so definite. So you, from over
here all by yourself, are going to communicate with your Father over
here in the Kingdom of Heaven&mdash;somewhere else than where you are.

When you use or utilize the holy instant for reestablishing
communication and you allow that reestablishment to occur so that
communication is happening&mdash; apparently two-way
dialogue&mdash;that&rsquo;s the beginning of a transition. You will
not, however, forever stay in communication&mdash;two way
dialogue&mdash;because as you communicate by means of the Holy Spirit,
or by means of your connection with your Guide, a shift occurs and
communication becomes communion&mdash;simultaneous inseparable Oneness.
Communion &hellip; communion. It&rsquo;s a shift into that place where,
as the Bible says, you &ldquo;Let that mind be in you which was also in
me.&rdquo;[^1]

Communication transitions into communion. Communion becomes, for lack of
better words, non-disintegrated conscious experience: integrated
conscious experience.

Now, we started out the last time we met with the beginning of the
Lord&rsquo;s Prayer and tonight I want to begin with the beginning of
the Ten Commandments. The first one says, &ldquo;Thou shalt have no
other gods before me.&rdquo;[^2] &ldquo;Thou shalt have no other
gods before me.&rdquo;

Now, in light of what we&rsquo;ve been learning, that means: Listen to
no other voice but Mine. &ldquo;Thou shalt not listen to any other voice
than Mine.&rdquo;

That means, thou shalt not listen first to your mother&rsquo;s voice, or
your father&rsquo;s voice or your sister&rsquo;s voice or your
brother&rsquo;s voice or your son&rsquo;s or daughter&rsquo;s voice, or
your guru&rsquo;s voice. You will not listen to any of those first.

&ldquo;Thou shalt not listen to any other voice than Mine.&rdquo; That
choice and the experience of fulfilling that choice is what we&rsquo;ve
been talking about as the proper use of the holy instant, or the purpose
of the holy instant to reunite that which was always One, which you, for
a time, have believed was two.

I need to reiterate that the word, &ldquo;communication&rdquo; here,
which is referred to as Salvation, is something far more than just you
communicating with your brother, sister, mother, father, daughter, son,
boss, relative, guru. It&rsquo;s far more than communication with a
body. That&rsquo;s not what it&rsquo;s talking about.

That kind of communication which you have been engaged in, we&rsquo;ll
say, for your whole life, does not constitute Salvation and you all know
it hasn&rsquo;t. How do you know? You&rsquo;re not Awake. You&rsquo;re
not free from sin, sickness and death. You&rsquo;re not truly and
uninterruptedly happy and you don&rsquo;t feel like you&rsquo;re at
Home.

Now, God is divine Mind. So the first Commandment means, &ldquo;Thou
shalt have no other mind but Mine&rdquo;&mdash;God being the speaker.
Your having the Mind of God as the forever-healed experience of your
mind is the result of the holy instant in which communication
transitions into communion.

Now the key here is, that the communication that constitutes Salvation
is your ongoing conscious connection with the Father in which, no matter
what is going on, you&rsquo;re always asking for, you&rsquo;re always
desiring first to experience the Father&rsquo;s Perspective about
whatever it is that is going on, so that when you interact with what is
going on, the interaction arises from your conscious connection, your
conscious communication, your conscious communion with God. It&rsquo;s
this that constitutes Salvation. And it&rsquo;s simply this that is your
goal, no matter how intellectually complicated or spiritually
technically detailed you want to get.

So what we&rsquo;re saying is, that healing, the correction of
illusions, arises out of communion, which arises out of communication in
the holy instant to begin with.

Now, you can pray for that to happen and it is well to pray for that to
happen. It is well for you to ask the Father or the Holy Spirit or me to
fill you up with clear mental atmosphere, clear mental environment and
to ask to be filled with the truth that heals. But you know what?
It&rsquo;s not going happen by magic. It&rsquo;s not going to happen
without your involvement.

Important: It&rsquo;s not going to happen without your involvement.
Healing will not be done unto you.

You see, as we go into the book here, we start with this paragraph I
read at the end last time that doesn&rsquo;t paint a very pretty
picture:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Suffering and sacrifice are the gifts with which the ego would "bless"
all unions.[^3]
</div>

If you&rsquo;re not Awake, then you are constantly under the gun, so to
speak, you are constantly vulnerable, you&rsquo;re constantly insecure,
and you&rsquo;re constantly in need of somehow securing stability. And
the only means that you have to accomplish that is through the
communication of guilt.

You have to weasel your good out of your brother. It&rsquo;s that
simple. And you do it because you&rsquo;re afraid. You&rsquo;re afraid
because you&rsquo;re in the middle of insanity. You think that
you&rsquo;re alone. You think you&rsquo;re independent. You think you
have a God-given right, a Birthright, to make decisions for yourself and
succeed all by yourself. That isn&rsquo;t true. And embracing that state
and embellishing it causes fear. It also makes you feel guilty, because
at the bottom line you know what you&rsquo;re trying to do isn&rsquo;t
possible and you know that the accomplishment would constitute a lie
about Creation, and absolute denial of your Father, of your Source, and
that will never be comfortable.

So, all you little orphans work each other over so as to secure
stability. It hasn&rsquo;t worked. But there is a way that works. And
the way it works is that you have to abandon the idea that the only
thing you have to work with are bodies, and that bodies communicate and
that the purpose of communication is to coerce behavior that represents
stability and safety for you.

From first to last, it&rsquo;s unkindness. It&rsquo;s an unkind
behavior.

Now why am I saying this? Because there comes a point where you have to
do something different and the &ldquo;something different&rdquo; is what
we&rsquo;re reading about. It is engaging in and utilizing the holy
instant.

If you want to see the correction of an illusion, whether it&rsquo;s
illness, whether it&rsquo;s injury, whether it&rsquo;s blind obedience
to drugs or alcohol, you&rsquo;re going to have to want to experience no
other mind than God&rsquo;s Mind. You&rsquo;re going to have to want to
have no other gods before God. And, I&rsquo;m going to tell you flat
out, that that is going to feel like an absolutely independent
act&mdash;a very lonely act. But it will only seem that way by
comparison with the environment that you will be emerging from.

Now, it&rsquo;s a time of year when there are many baby birds that are
past the stage of being baby birds and they are still insisting upon
pestering mommy to put food in their mouth. And even if mom is on a lawn
or in an area where there&rsquo;s bird-seed and there&rsquo;s abundance
of food, those babies have their eyes only on one place: Mommy&rsquo;s
mouth. Why? Because from the first moment they think they can remember,
that&rsquo;s how they were nurtured, that&rsquo;s how they felt good.
And so here they are, perhaps walking around in half an inch of
bird-seed on the ground, not seeing it because their eyes are focused on
mom&rsquo;s beak and they&rsquo;re making raucous noise pestering her to
feed them, which she does slowly &hellip; and manages to do evermore
slowly.

Now, you know from watching them, that the time is going to have to come
where they decide to notice what mom is doing and look down and see all
this food, the seeds, or look down and here are the worms or the bugs,
and take a bite themselves without relating that act of, I&rsquo;m going
to say sovereignty, to mom. It&rsquo;s like abandoning everything
that&rsquo;s meaningful. It&rsquo;s like abandoning mom &hellip;
abandoning all the feelings associated with mom.

To decide to take the bite yourself feels like abandoning mom.
It&rsquo;s not easy and it feels like you&rsquo;re trying to be
independent. It feels like you&rsquo;re doing something that&rsquo;s
going to make you be lonely because mom won&rsquo;t be there &hellip;
because you&rsquo;re gonna feed yourself? It doesn&rsquo;t make sense.

Now, the simple fact is, that when we&rsquo;re talking about the holy
instant and when we&rsquo;re talking about hesitating and doing the
two-step so that you say, &ldquo;Father, what&rsquo;s the truth
here?&rdquo; what are you doing?

Well you&rsquo;re doing a few things: You&rsquo;re abandoning checking
with your friends, or your guru or your mom &hellip; or whoever has
explained life to you; your professor. And you are leaning into the
answer from a direction that doesn&rsquo;t involve a relationship with
those that you can see&mdash;all these bodies around you. It feels like
an act of independence. It feels like doing something that makes you be
alone. But mind you, this act that you&rsquo;re engaging in is a
conscious act of joining with Something that you have not experienced
communication with, much less communion with.

There comes a point in this apparent process of waking up, of coming
back into your right Mind&mdash;your divine Sanity&mdash;and your
rightful place in the Movement of Creation &hellip; there&rsquo;s comes
a point at which you must stop leaning on and manipulating your brothers
and sisters into being the source of your answers&mdash;the source of
your reason for feeling stable.

If you&rsquo;ve chosen well among your brothers and sisters, among those
bodies with whom there seems to be communication, you will have been
involved with those who point you in the direction that I&rsquo;m
pointing you in at this moment, that point you within to that very
intimate, and we could say private, but I&rsquo;m going to say, very
intimate place of connection with your Source, where you lean into this
Source and dare to entrust yourself to this action where you have no
external proof of the validity or the dependability of what you&rsquo;re
doing.

Until you, like the baby bird, get your own food for your own reasons,
and that act doesn&rsquo;t put any of your brothers or sisters or
mothers into a position of obligation to you that fulfills your
dependence on them &hellip; until you do that, the full meaning and
impact of the holy instant will elude you and you will not get out of
the orphanage! &ldquo;But I don&rsquo;t know how to do it.&rdquo; Then
persist in doing a very simple thing: Persist in asking for help!

Now you notice that this communication that I&rsquo;m describing
isn&rsquo;t communication between bodies, is it? It&rsquo;s between you
and God. It&rsquo;s between you and the Holy Ghost&mdash;you and the
Holy Spirit&mdash;which is nothing more than your right Mind. It&rsquo;s
all Mind. Communication, real communication, is all Mind.

Well you&rsquo;re not used to that. You don&rsquo;t think it happens.
You think it only happens body to body. Or shall I say, body over
body&mdash;bodies controlling bodies, bodies making bodies behave in a
way that provides safety and security and, hopefully, self-respect.

Now, just as with the baby bird abandoning his mother as that which
identifies his completeness, you will find yourself uncomfortable in
abandoning your allegiance to your brothers and your misuse of them to
provide you with a feeling of security and wholeness. And it will feel
like a reckless and dangerous thing to do that will increase the
vulnerability that you have used as justification for misusing your
brothers and sisters.

That feeling of vulnerability that caused you to mistreat your brothers
and sisters was a result of abandoning your Father, of getting a
divorce, emancipating yourself from your Source and developing a sense
of security from strange behaviors as an orphan.

&ldquo;Thou shalt not listen to any other voice but Mine. Thou shalt not
have any other mind but Mine.&rdquo; These, at this point, are strange
experiences, unfamiliar experiences. But you know what? You&rsquo;re not
going to shift into the actuality of them until you emancipate yourself
from dependence upon your brothers and sisters to provide you with
something that you already have by virtue of your Birthright, by virtue
of what you truly Are.

Once the baby bird finds out that he can have more worms by going after
them himself than he can have if he waits for mom to get one for him and
one for his brother and one for his sister and one for his other
brother, he&rsquo;s going to go after the worms and to hell with mom
[chuckle]. He found he doesn&rsquo;t need her for that, he doesn&rsquo;t
need to make her function in that way.

Likewise, when you will dare to lean into the holy instant to establish
communication with That which is bodyless&mdash;That which is not
primarily a body&mdash;and you have the unfolding experience of the fact
that you really are the Son or Daughter of Something Else, that you have
a Source that you&rsquo;re in inseparable relationship with already, a
relationship which means that you&rsquo;re whole, a relationship which
means that you&rsquo;re not subject to sin, disease and death, you will
be glad to abandon what the Course speaks of as &ldquo;special
relationships.&rdquo; And the abandoning of them will not seem like a
loss to you at all.

And when that happens, you will apparently become an agent for change in
the world, or shall I say, in the orphanage&mdash;not that the orphanage
will be remodeled and revamped and made more spectacular for orphans to
live in&mdash;but an agent for change in the sense that you say to the
other orphans, &ldquo;Hey, stop leaning on each other that way.
You&rsquo;re not orphans. Come on out of the orphanage and abandon all
of the well-established activities that identify
orphanhood&mdash;meaning abusing each other, meaning living in a
constant state of fear, meaning seeming to be vulnerable, able to become
sick, die, experience uncorrectable injury.

&ldquo;Come on out from that. Stop bickering with each other. Stop
trying to communicate with each other, just because you can see bodies,
and that means that that&rsquo;s what you must communicate with. Come
out of that mindset and invite the holy instant, utilize the holy
instant. Reach to that which is actually in you that is infinity, that
is God, that is you in your infinite right Mind, in your infinite
Sanity.

&ldquo;And if it seems scary to you, persist anyway. Just like the baby
bird arrives at a point where it must get its worm on its own and
persist in it, even though the urge is absolute, it would seem, to run
to mom and pester her to death &hellip; pester the heck out of her to
get her to feed you.&rdquo;

You will not discover your omnipotence, you will not discover your
omnipresence, you will not discover your omniscience until you
completely abandon leaning upon external sources for omniscience and
omnipotence. But when you do abandon leaning on everything out there,
omnipotence will become yours, omniscience&mdash;knowing
everything&mdash;will become yours, omnipresence will become yours.

What will omnipresence mean? Well, it&rsquo;ll mean peace, because
there&rsquo;s nothing outside of omnipresence to be at odds with it.
Omnipresence means everything fits: You fit with everything, everything
fits with you, you&rsquo;re all it and its all you, infinitely. It means
everything and more that&rsquo;s embodied in the word
&ldquo;Home&rdquo;&mdash;everything you can imagine about the ultimate
of &ldquo;coming Home.&rdquo; It means that and infinitely more.

You know, you&rsquo;re cautioned not to lean unto your own
understanding. And yet, you must, all by yourself, decide to lean into
your right Mind&mdash;the Holy Spirit&mdash;and not renege on that
decision, so that the Allness of what you Are might infill you and
replace the sense of private, intimate aloneness that you&rsquo;re
having to bring to bear in order not to be distracted by all the input
you can get from everything out there, nor the relief that you might
feel by being able to make everyone else and everything else
responsible.

Hey, baby bird would love to make mom responsible for feeding him for
the rest of his life, but he would never come into the conscious
experience of what he Is. He&rsquo;s a bird not a baby. He didn&rsquo;t
show up in order to forever be a baby, a permanent dependent. And
neither have you.

So, if you want to see healing, if you want to see the correction of
illusions that you are suffering from, you must be willing to do one
thing: Don&rsquo;t pray to have things fixed, still being unconscious
yourself of any relationship with God, still not having experienced the
holy instant because you never for a moment said, &ldquo;Father,
what&rsquo;s the truth here? What&rsquo;s the truth that shows the
problem to be nonexistent because my fulfillment has never been altered
in any way? What&rsquo;s the truth?&rdquo;

If you ask for healing, if you desire healing, you&rsquo;re going to
have to stop listening to other voices than God&rsquo;s Voice. That
means that you&rsquo;re going to have to stop listening to the voice for
fear in you, and you&rsquo;re going to have to stop letting it ramble,
and you&rsquo;re going to have to stop stoking it with more and more bad
news and more and more doubt and more and more personal energy of yours
to rev it up. It means that you&rsquo;ve got to use some self-discipline
and stop doing what doesn&rsquo;t work, stop letting all these voices
speak and register with you and cause you to get into a reaction with
all of them. It&rsquo;s hell; plain, pure and simple!

And if you ask for healing, but you're not willing to change your mind,
you're not willing to change your behavior, you're not willing to say,
&ldquo;I choose not to listen to these voice's&rdquo; and then you stop
describing what you're doing and you ask a question that requires a
response. Stop talking about what you're going to do, what you're going
to need to do, and how things really work to the best of your
understanding. Stop it all and say, &ldquo;Father what is the Truth
here.&rdquo; Open up dialogue and stick with it.

A Comforter was sent to everyone. The Comforter is your right Mind. The
Comforter is the Holy Spirit. The Comforter was sent to you the moment
you decided to try to be independent and to become a puppet without
strings&mdash;a real boy in your own right. The moment you abandoned
your right Mind, It was held in trust, ever present with you and forever
insinuating Itself into your awareness to get your attention and bring
you back into your full conscious awareness of what you divinely Are.

All we&rsquo;re talking about here is you making the choice to let your
right Mind back in &hellip; by what? Having no other gods before God.
Listening to no other voice than the Voice for Truth&mdash;God&rsquo;s
Voice. Having no other mind but the Mind that is God. And hanging in
there with doing that until you hear. And then invest your trust in what
you&rsquo;re hearing, so that you&rsquo;re not going and checking with
others to get validation. You see?

There comes a point at which the baby bird has to stop going to mother
for validation of its ongoingness.

Now, you all know&mdash;any of you who have attempted this&mdash;that it
feels very lonely and it feels like you&rsquo;re leaving everyone behind
or pushing them away, shutting them out, not valuing them. It feels like
the opposite of embrace.

Why, the Course talks about holy relationships as well as special
relationships, so why not get busy developing holy relationships with
each other. Well, any relationship that you develop with someone else,
while you&rsquo;re still not experiencing the conscious connection with
God, is just another special relationship dressed up in spiritual finery
&hellip; &ldquo;Lookin&rsquo; g-o-o-d&rdquo; &hellip; but still false,
still not valid.

What the baby bird abandons is a special relationship with the bird
called its mother. But the relationship with that bird doesn&rsquo;t
end. Hey, the United States broke away from England, took its
independence in the sense of standing on its own ground, being
responsible for its own decisions, emancipated itself from its mother
country and in the process it ceased to be a dependent and it opened up
the door for England and the United States to be brothers, to relate to
each other without dependence.

Now, we&rsquo;ve been talking for quite some time now about where
we&rsquo;re going, what it is that what we&rsquo;re studying is all
about. We&rsquo;ve been talking about what does it mean today, here, in
your daily life. This is what it means: In communication lies salvation.

The communication that constitutes salvation is communication between
you and God&rsquo;s Voice, which happens to be the Holy Spirit, which
happens to be your right Mind. We&rsquo;re talking about That which is
One, but seems to be two being brought back into Oneness. And that act
has to arise out of some sort of basic self-respect that doesn&rsquo;t
involve abusing your brothers and sisters, doesn&rsquo;t allow your
brothers and sisters to abuse you, does not attempt to engage in
communication as though it&rsquo;s bodies that communicate, and instead
finds in the reunion of that which was always One, infinite Brotherhood
that has nothing to do with bodies relating to each other, but which has
to do with Mind infinitely experienced and infinitely expressed,
experiencing its all-inclusive unity and Brotherhood and wholeness and
peace and invulnerability and omnipotence and omniscience and
omnipresence &hellip; and on and on.

Now I want to end tonight with a statement that comes at the end of the
Manual for Teachers. Right at the very end there&rsquo;s a two or three
page section called:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*As for the Rest* &hellip;[^4]
</div>

After all of this, then &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*As for the Rest* &hellip;
</div>

And this is very important, because it relates most specifically to what
we&rsquo;re reading and what we&rsquo;re discussing. It says &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is another advantage,&mdash;and a very important one,&mdash;in
referring decisions to the Holy Spirit with increasing frequency.
Perhaps you have not thought of this aspect, but its centrality is
obvious. To follow the Holy Spirit's guidance is to let yourself be
absolved of guilt.
</div>

I&rsquo;m going to read it again:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is another advantage,&mdash;and a very important one,&mdash;in
referring decisions to the Holy Spirit with increasing frequency.
Perhaps you have not thought of this aspect, but its centrality is
obvious. To follow the Holy Spirit's guidance is to let yourself be
absolved of guilt.
</div>

And because guilt always has a partner, fear, it means being released
from fear as well. And since guilt and fear, prolonged, cause anger,
then it means moving into an arena of being, you might say, in which
anger is not only absent, it isn&rsquo;t even considered, you might say,
as a use for manipulation and control.

I&rsquo;m going to begin again.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is another advantage,&mdash;and a very important one,&mdash;in
referring decisions to the Holy Spirit with increasing frequency.
Perhaps you have not thought of this aspect, but its centrality is
obvious. To follow the Holy Spirit's guidance is to let yourself be
absolved of guilt.
</div>

Here it is:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is the essence of the Atonement. It is the core of the curriculum.
</div>

Mind you, this is right at the end of the Course in the Teachers Manual,
in a little section called:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*As for the Rest* &hellip;
</div>

This little point is the essence of the Atonement and it&rsquo;s the
core of the curriculum.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The imagined usurping of functions not your own is the basis of fear.
</div>

If you usurp functions that aren&rsquo;t your own, it&rsquo;s going to
cause fear. When you say, &ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;d rather see it my way.
Father, I&rsquo;d rather do it my way,&rdquo; and you take on functions
that aren&rsquo;t yours, it&rsquo;s going to do what? It&rsquo;s going
to cause fear. It&rsquo;s also going to cause guilt and eventually
it&rsquo;s going to cause anger, which will be used as the means for
running life miserably.

Now &hellip;

[Raj didn&rsquo;t read this sentence:] The whole world you see reflects
the illusion that you have done so, making fear inevitable.
{: .omit}

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To return the function to the One to Whom it belongs is thus the escape
from fear.
</div>

And I&rsquo;m going to add, and guilt and the need to use anger or feel
it for any reason.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To return the function to the One to Whom it belongs is thus the escape
from fear. And it is this that lets the memory of love return to you.
</div>

Now, it&rsquo;s important to see this. It&rsquo;s like these steps bring
Reality back into focus for you&mdash;for everyone. When you pray for
something, that&rsquo;s what you need to be praying for. When you do the
two-step, that is what you&rsquo;re asking for. When you say,
&ldquo;Father, what is the truth here?&rdquo; that is what you&rsquo;re
asking for. If you say, &ldquo;Father, make that mean man stop doing
what he&rsquo;s doing.&rdquo; &ldquo;Father, get me a fantastic
well-paying job,&rdquo; these aren&rsquo;t the questions to be asking.
This isn&rsquo;t what to be asking for. What you want is what answers
those questions by perhaps showing that they don&rsquo;t need to be
answered at all because fulfillment constitutes something far more
wonderful.

Now, again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To return the function &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that you usurped &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; to the One to Whom it belongs is thus the escape from fear.
</div>

[In other words, the escape from fear occurs] when you say,
&ldquo;Father, Thy will be done,&rdquo; and then you say, &ldquo;Father,
what is Your will?&rdquo; and you listen until you get the answer even
though you would so much love to go ask somebody else what the answer is
without having to go to the trouble and the effort of hanging in there
with your desire until you get the answer, and entrust yourself to the
process and value the answer and dare to embrace it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To return the function to the One to Whom it belongs is thus the escape
from fear. And it is this that lets the memory of love return to you.
</div>

It lets your function register with you consciously once again. It lets
your invulnerability register with you so that you feel no need for
protection and defense. And in the absence of maintaining defense the
love that you Are spills out and defines you as you watch it defining
you. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Do not, then, think that following the Holy Spirit's guidance is
necessary merely because of your own inadequacies. It is the way out of
hell for you.
</div>

And that sits there in a little section called:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*As for the Rest* &hellip;
</div>

The holy instant as communication &hellip; the holy
instant&mdash;period&mdash;is as it said, the essence of the Atonement.
It is the core of the curriculum.

You will go into the holy instant alone with your own commitment, which
the Holy Spirit will have inspired in you in one way or another. And you
will persist because that&rsquo;s the way the Atonement works,
that&rsquo;s the way your coming back into your right Mind works. And
it&rsquo;s really the one and only thing that needs to occur in order to
Wake up&mdash;no matter how long this book, A Course in Miracles, is, no
matter how many words or pages.

At the bottom line, you must stop doing what doesn&rsquo;t work. You
must stop listening to other voices. You must stop listening to your
voice, because until you listen and ask for God to reveal to you the
Truth, until you ask for the Holy Spirit to reveal to you the Truth,
your Real Voice won&rsquo;t be heard yet. And it&rsquo;s your Real Voice
that you want. And it&rsquo;s your Real Voice that you are going to
determine to listen for no matter how long it takes, whether you can get
confirmation from any other source or not.

God insists on your knowing yourself for who you truly Are. And
that&rsquo;s why the Holy Spirit, which is your right Mind, is present
to respond to you when you&rsquo;re willing to lean into It and rely
upon It. The Holy Spirit is your right Mind and It is in place in you
because you have a Father and you&rsquo;re not an orphan. And your
reconnection with It is inevitable, unavoidable, because you
haven&rsquo;t stopped being what you divinely Are.

Be willing to do the hard work. Be willing to do the diligent, intimate,
private work, where you lean into God for the confirmation of your
divinity, lean into that place where God&rsquo;s laws prevail, so that
you might have the evidence of it. And do it without continuing to look
outside yourself to find out whether you&rsquo;re doing the right thing.

I love you very much. I love you enough to tell you not to lean on the
wrong thing.

And I look forward to being with you all next time.

[^1]: Bible: Php 2:5-11
[^2]: Exodus 20
[^3]: T15.7 The Holy Instant and Communication
[^4]: Manual for Teachers Section AS FOR THE REST&hellip;

