---
title: Sep 12, 2009
ref: "T15.8 The Holy Instant and Real Relationships"
alink: "/acim/text/15/chap1508/"
---

Good evening and welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
internet.

So we have a new section tonight: The Holy Instant and what? Holy
Relationships? No.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*The Holy Instant and Real Relationships*[^1]
</div>

The fact is, that a real relationship will be a holy relationship. But
if we were going to talk about having a holy relationship, it could
appeal to your egos in unsavory and unsatisfactory and stifling ways.

Relationships are things that you currently have, right here, right now,
on planet Earth in the physical universe as you think of it. You think
they are relationships by virtue of measured distance between this and
that, and distance in time. You think that relationships are between
things called, &ldquo;bodies&rdquo; whether it&rsquo;s the body of a
planet, the body of a human being, a body of an animal&mdash;the body,
the physical shape, texture, substance, presence of a chair. But the
relationships are all going on, I&rsquo;m going to a little bit
carelessly say, in your mind. And I&rsquo;m saying that a little
carelessly, because you could interpret that to mean the mind you think
you currently have and use.

But I&rsquo;m talking about an eternal fact here. I&rsquo;m talking
about relationships that are forever. Well you say, &ldquo;Well, the
table there, isn&rsquo;t gonna be there forever? Somewhere along the
line, through a fire or through the simple passage of time, it&rsquo;s
going to deteriorate and it&rsquo;s no longer going to be there.&rdquo;
And the only reason you say that, is because at the present time, you
think it&rsquo;s purely physical.

But I&rsquo;m going to reiterate that it&rsquo;s a pure idea. And I tell
you, that any object that you might have experienced in your whole life
that seems for one reason or another to no longer be present,
unavailable to experience, when you come back into your right
Mind&mdash;your full conscious awareness as Mind in which all of
Creation is occurring&mdash;you will find everything that you ever
experienced available to you, tangible to you, enjoyable by you because
it&rsquo;s an idea and it was an idea when you thought it was matter.

And everything right now is an idea even though you think it&rsquo;s an
object that has nothing to do with your mind other than that it is
something, which the sensitivity of your mind can pick up on and
experience, you see.

It&rsquo;s backwards. You think that because it&rsquo;s there your mind
can sense it, your mind can experience it. But the fact is, that
it&rsquo;s because your mind is present that it is there&mdash;plain,
pure and simple.

Therefore, truly, your relationship with it is the relationship between
the conscious mind, the conscious Being that you Are and the idea
embraced within that conscious Being&mdash;that being conscious, the
relationship never was physical. The relationship never was between a
mind, a brain and sensory organs, and other things which those sensory
organs could experience. It never was. But you&rsquo;re quite convinced
that it is.

And so as we begin this section &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*The Holy Instant and Real Relationships*
</div>

&hellip; let&rsquo;s not get too hung up on, &ldquo;Oh-h boy, I&rsquo;m
gonna have a hunky-dory holy relationship with Betty over there,&rdquo;
or, &ldquo;Oh-h boy, because we&rsquo;re going to be doing it right this
time, it is going to be one zinger [chuckles] of a relationship,
soul-satisfying for eternity!&rdquo;

Let&rsquo;s begin:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The holy instant does not replace the need for learning&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; well, that&rsquo;s sort of out of the blue &hellip; where did
that come from?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The holy instant does not replace the need for learning&hellip;
</div>

Well, if when you do the two-step, if when you step back and say,
&ldquo;Father what is the truth here?&rdquo; and the truth is revealed
and you find yourself Knowing the truth, you could come to the
conclusion that perhaps you will never have to learn anything because
Knowing will always be available to you.

Well, it&rsquo;s not true. The holy instant does not replace the need
for learning. And if you become lazy and slip-shod, thinking that
learning has gone out of the window, because you can always know the
truth, you will find yourself confronted by life in a manner or a form
that throws you for a curve. Why? Because you haven&rsquo;t learned
something.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The holy instant does not replace the need for learning, for the Holy
Spirit must not leave you as your Teacher until the holy instant has
extended far beyond time.
</div>

Holy instants are literally instants in time in which you abandon
yourself to the Father, in which you abandon yourself to the Holy
Spirit.

Now the simple fact is, that when you find yourself knowing the truth
and it&rsquo;s very clear to you, clear enough that you might be able to
express it to someone else and have it make sense and be inspiring and
uplifting and growth-causing for them, if you don&rsquo;t take that
truth within and let it replace the illusion that you&rsquo;ve been
experiencing, because you have a certain partiality to the illusion or
there&rsquo;s a certain benefit you think you get from the illusion, you
won&rsquo;t learn&mdash;no change will occur.

And so all of this that we&rsquo;re talking about does involve shifts of
perception and the adopting of the new perception to the exclusion of
the old one actually changing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For a teaching assignment such as His&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He must use everything in this world for your release.
</div>

Well now, let me ask you this: If you have thought that this world is an
illusion, why would the Holy Spirit use everything in this world for
your release? Why wouldn&rsquo;t the Holy Spirit turn your eyes away
from illusion?

Well very simply, because everything you&rsquo;re
seeing&mdash;everything in this world as you put it&mdash;is everything
that&rsquo;s in the Kingdom of Heaven because Reality is the only thing
in your face. If you are experiencing a misperception of things in the
Kingdom of Heaven and, in fact, if you&rsquo;re having a misperception
of the Kingdom of Heaven Itself in Its entirety, then this world and
each thing in this world will serve as the occasion for becoming
undeluded. The glass, the table, the plant will serve as the opportunity
to see God there instead of what you had determined was there or the
definition you adopted that somebody else determined it was.

The Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; must use everything in this world for your release.
</div>

Now, it isn&rsquo;t that the Holy Spirit must use everything because
you&rsquo;re so dense. The Holy Spirit must use everything because
everything must come back under the jurisdiction of God, the Creator of
it, and the fact that any perception of it whatsoever must necessarily
be the truth about it&mdash;the true experience of it&mdash;you see? . .
where ignorance no longer rules, dominates or injures or depresses
anyone or anything.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; must side with every sign or token of your willingness to learn
of Him what the truth must be.
</div>

You see, keep saying, &ldquo;Father what is the truth here? Holy Spirit,
what is the truth here? That which is nothing more than my right Mind,
what is the truth here?&rdquo;

We&rsquo;ve just been reading some rather heavy-duty material, the
expression of some unpleasant, hard to look at ideas. The whole reason
for describing the ego and ego-dynamics as they are, which is
unpleasant, the only reason for describing them was to help bring
everyone to a point of not finding it attractive anymore to be ignorant
of the truth or to not be in communication with the Holy
Spirit&mdash;which is nothing more than your right Mind&mdash;so that it
might be easy for you to allow communication to occur once again for
union to be reestablished once again.

The Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; must side with every sign or token of your willingness to learn
of Him what the truth must be.
</div>

The Holy Spirit waits patiently but expectantly for every opportunity to
connect with you and have you know that you&rsquo;re connecting with
Him&mdash;to have you know that there is union within your Mind again.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He is swift to utilize whatever you offer Him on behalf of this.
</div>

It&rsquo;s important to know this because when you think you&rsquo;re an
orphan, when you think you&rsquo;re isolated, when you think God is far
off from you and doesn&rsquo;t even care to connect with you because of
whatever reasons you&rsquo;ve come up with, you need to know it&rsquo;s
not the truth, that you aren&rsquo;t some little inconsequential gnat,
trying to get the attention of an infinite Creator.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is swift to utilize whatever you offer Him on behalf of this.
</div>

The moment there is the faintest glimmer of your attention being given,
where the Holy Spirit is, the Holy Spirit responds. Light illuminates
the corridor, if you will, the opening&mdash;the weak spot in the
armor&mdash;and rushes in.

He doesn&rsquo;t just sit there and say, &ldquo;Come-on &hellip; just a
little bit further &hellip; yeah, you&rsquo;re doing pretty good
&hellip; yeah &hellip;&rdquo; No, that&rsquo;s not the way the Holy
Spirit is, that&rsquo;s not love. That which is one with you already is
impelled because of its love of unity and because of its love of the
wholeness of It and you. It is impelled to rush in and meet you and
greet you and embrace you and speak to you in language of your present
weakness, in language of your present insecurity, in language of your
lack of confidence in spite of your low trust level, in language that
will not reduce your level of trust, there is that kind of love. You
could say, it accepts you where you are. But it isn&rsquo;t that it
accepts you where you are, it is intelligent enough to speak in the
language that you can understand, so that you can be moved beyond that
language into new language. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
His concern and care for you are limitless. In the face of your FEAR of
forgiveness, which He perceives as clearly as He knows forgiveness is
RELEASE, He will teach you to remember that forgiveness is not loss,
but your SALVATION.
</div>

What is forgiveness? Well, forgiveness is you abandoning the
definitions&mdash;the false definitions you&rsquo;ve applied to
everything even though you didn&rsquo;t know they were false. It&rsquo;s
you saying, &ldquo;Father, what&rsquo;s the truth here?&rdquo; And the
Father gives you the answer of what the truth is here and you say,
&ldquo;Oh-h &hellip; O-o-okay!&rdquo; And you abandon the false
definition, you abandon the definition you had been using and applying
to that thing. And that&rsquo;s forgiveness. You forgive it for being
what you held it to be in your mind and insisted upon it being because
of the image you held in your mind and which you judged for being the
image that you held in your mind, thinking all along that you were
talking about a thing that wasn&rsquo;t an image in your mind but an
actuality &ldquo;out there.&rdquo;

Forgiveness of a thing&mdash;the releasing of an incorrect definition
you&rsquo;ve applied to it&mdash;is what constitutes the learning that
must occur, the change in you that must occur and which the Holy Spirit
is present to facilitate.

I&rsquo;m going to read this last sentence again:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In the face of your FEAR of forgiveness, which He perceives as clearly
as He knows forgiveness is RELEASE, He will teach you to remember that
forgiveness is not loss, but your SALVATION. And that in COMPLETE
forgiveness, in which you recognize that there is nothing to forgive,
YOU are absolved completely.
</div>

You see, when you use the holy instant for the purpose of desiring to
know the truth and you let the knowledge or experience of truth in,
you&rsquo;re immediately faced with the relieving fact that everything
about that thing that you had judged negatively, wasn&rsquo;t even going
on, it never was the truth about that. And therefore, there was nothing
there to forgive in the sense, in the human sense of looking past a
flaw&mdash;giving the benefit of the doubt&mdash;being generous enough
to not &ldquo;nail him&rdquo; for that this time. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He will teach you to remember that forgiveness is not loss, but your
SALVATION. And that in COMPLETE forgiveness, in which you recognize that
there is nothing to forgive, YOU are absolved completely.
</div>

What does that mean? That means that you become innocent immediately.
You see? Innocent of falsely accusing this, that or the other thing or
your brother because you were convinced that the illusion was
true&mdash;that a lie was true. You&rsquo;re absolved of abuse.
You&rsquo;re absolved of guilt. Why? Not because you were guilty, but
because now you are looking with innocent eyes, where before you were
looking with the eyes of fear, which experienced the need to apply blame
and guilt in order to try and reduce the fear. You see?

So when you engage in complete forgiveness, you&rsquo;re absolved
completely. You become pure. You are returned to your state of innocent
purity.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Hear him gladly&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit, that which is nothing more than your right
Mind, but is the Voice for Truth, the Voice for God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Hear him gladly, and learn of Him that you have need of no special
relationships at all.
</div>

You have no need of relationships that are based on guilt because guilt
is the cement that holds relationships together. You have no need for
that. And intellectually, I know you can understand that but
there&rsquo;s a learning that must occur. You must take that fact which
we could call radical idealism &hellip; right? . . and insist upon
experiencing it translated into practical realism.

What this means is, that joined with the Holy Spirit, joined with that
which is nothing more than your right Mind, you must ask to be helped to
abandon the habits that are in place by means of which you establish
guilt in others and hold them to it. You need help in abandoning that.
This is a learning that you need help with. You need a companion
standing with you whom you&rsquo;re willing to listen to because He will
tell you how to stop employing guilt&mdash;how to stop attempting to
become a real boy or a real girl independent of the Father by the
excellent use of guilt, you see.

This is what the learning is&mdash;this is some of what the learning is.
And it is this learning that you need a teacher for. And the only
teacher who can help you with it is one Who can see your particular
sneaky, tricky techniques for keeping your brother unforgiven&mdash;the
sneaky techniques that cause your brother to appear to need forgiveness,
but a forgiveness which you will withhold, because you think that if you
forgive your brother, your brother won&rsquo;t stick around. And also,
because you think that if you can lay the guilt perfectly enough and
cause that one, let&rsquo;s say, to behave, it will give you gold stars
in your resume in the orphanage.

Of course, this is just part of the nastiness we&rsquo;ve been learning
about the last few weeks relative to special relationships. Because
special relationships not only cement the relationships, secure the
relationships, special relationships also have as their bottom line
goal, the purpose of making you right&mdash;the purpose of making you
worthy of the designation: Real boy or real girl, perfectly respectable
individual in your own right. That&rsquo;s the ultimate
purpose&mdash;that&rsquo;s the ultimate goal. You see. And this is why
you fear complete forgiveness. This is why you fear engaging in complete
forgiveness because you think you will lose all of those things that you
believe the employment of guilt is getting you.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Hear him gladly, and learn of Him that you have need of no special
relationships at all.
</div>

Good-bye and good-riddance is where you want to be relative to special
relationships&mdash;gladly let them go.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You but seek in them what you have thrown away.
</div>

Thrown away &hellip; yeah, you threw it away when you said,
&ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;d rather do it my way. Father, I&rsquo;d rather
see it my way. Father, I&rsquo;d rather say what a thing is.&rdquo; You
threw away your Birthright. You threw away the connection that
constituted your Reality.

So, you then but seek in relationships&mdash;which have to be
special&mdash;what you have thrown away.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And through them you will never learn the value of what you have cast
aside, but what you still desire with all your hearts.
</div>

You see, you want something from something that can&rsquo;t give it to
you. And the thing you want from them is something you want with all
your heart. You want to be whole. You want to feel your simple
invulnerability that allows you to be utterly and completely at peace,
and therefore, able to really, truly be present with your brothers and
sisters and with your world in a benign way, in a way that allows what
everyone and everything is to register with you as it is in
Creation&mdash;as the Father is Being it right now.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Let us join together in making the holy instant all that there is, by
desiring that it BE all that there is.
</div>

You could say that the holy instant is an instant of clarity, an instant
of experiencing everything as It is. Now, why just have a momentary
glimpse of everything as It is?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Let us join together in making the holy instant all that there is, by
desiring that it BE all that there is.
</div>

By not desiring to have anything else anymore, neglecting to desire to
have it be anything else.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God&rsquo;s Son &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; me, the Christ &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; has such great need of your willingness to strive for this that
you cannot conceive of need so great.
</div>

Oh no, don&rsquo;t feel sorry for me. It&rsquo;s not a sad neediness,
it&rsquo;s not a neediness of lack. It&rsquo;s a need in the Presence of
the Mind of God to not see the Mind of God absent anywhere, especially
in you.

If God is All, then there is a need for the Allness of God to be All.
And it is a need beyond anything anyone can comprehend. But it&rsquo;s
not because there&rsquo;s a lack, it&rsquo;s because that which is All
must be All, that which is All is All, and therefore, that Allness needs
to be totally experienced, it needs to be totally available in every
aspect of the Allness of God&mdash;meaning right where you are, right
there as you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God&rsquo;s Son has such great need of your willingness to strive for
this that you cannot conceive of need so great.
</div>

&hellip; so infinite, so unyieldingly absolute.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Behold the only need that God and His Son share, and will to meet
together. You are not alone in this.

[repeats] You are not alone in this.
</div>

And so, when you begin to turn your attention away from the thrill and
the stimulation of special relationships and the thrill and stimulation
of thinking for yourself, you will find that you, in the absence of
those things, are not alone but companioned with by mighty
companions&mdash;God and His Son.

Now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The will of your creations call to you, to share your will with them.
Turn, then, in peace from guilt to God and them.
</div>

And make sure it&rsquo;s in that order. Don&rsquo;t turn to your brother
and then turn to God. Turn to God before you turn to your brother. Are
you going to be a teacher of God or a teacher of your brother? If
you&rsquo;re going to be a teacher of God &hellip; well, of course, God
doesn&rsquo;t need you to teach Him anything, so it can&rsquo;t mean you
&ldquo;teaching God.&rdquo;

To be a teacher of God means that you are turning to the Father and
yielding to the Father so that you might be the expression of the Will
of God, as God is Willing it where you are. Then when you turn to your
brother, you won&rsquo;t be a teacher of your brother, you will be a
teacher, an expresser, a sharer of what God is Being&mdash;you will
teach what God is Being.

Better than that though, because of the likelihood of egos to grab onto
the idea of being a great teacher, you will be a teacher by breathing,
you&rsquo;ll be a teacher by being. Your connectedness with God will
subsume any other goal. And thus in your connectedness with the Father
and your yielding to the Father and you letting the Father shine through
you, things will happen. But you won&rsquo;t look at yourself making
them happen and you won&rsquo;t look at yourself as doing them. You
won&rsquo;t even have yourself on your mind relative to your brother.

But I&rsquo;ll tell you, that you&rsquo;ll experience your brother, and
the experience of your brother will be an experience of union in which
neither you nor your brother, as bodies or personalities, have any
importance, but in which the sharing of the truth of what God is Being
in that Real relationship, in that moment teaching and learning will
occur, but you won&rsquo;t know about it&mdash;not as you being a
teacher.

Now, I&rsquo;ll tell you something, you won&rsquo;t get the same ego
satisfying hit that you might from being an independent teacher actually
doing a good work. No. there won&rsquo;t be any cause and effect sort of
thing &hellip; &ldquo;I did a good job and therefore, I get the
hit.&rdquo; No. The experience of communion itself is a blessed
experience. It&rsquo;s an experience of wholeness, in which you
experience God as Love, you experience being together as Love, you
experience presence as Love, you experience whatever the interaction
seems to be as a movement of wholeness that isn&rsquo;t progressive but
is effulgent.

Now, you see, all of this that we&rsquo;re talking about is leading 
somewhere, in the sense of it being educational. And you are supposed to
find yourself moved. You are to find yourself not where you were
yesterday&mdash;not bound by the things you were bound by
yesterday&mdash;recognizing and enjoying Godness, where you hadn&rsquo;t
recognized or experienced it yesterday.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Relate only with what will NEVER leave you, and what YOU can never
leave.
</div>

You see, that&rsquo;s like in the Bible it says: &ldquo;Seek ye first
the kingdom of God, and His righteousness; and all these things shall be
added unto you.&rdquo;[^2] You see, you&rsquo;re so geared to getting the
things. But it&rsquo;s the wrong way around. And it&rsquo;s only orphans
that get things. And in the long run, the things they attempt to get are
the things that will raise them up in the orphanage&mdash;make them more
and more real without being joined, without knowing who they Are.

Now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The loneliness of God&rsquo;s Son &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning Jesus, meaning me.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The loneliness of God&rsquo;s Son is the loneliness of his Father.
</div>

You say, &ldquo;How could the Father be lonely?&rdquo; Well, what if
your children ran off to a far land and ignored you completely? You
would be lonely, because family is an actuality that isn&rsquo;t being
embodied, it&rsquo;s an actuality with no presence, no conscious
participation in.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The loneliness of God&rsquo;s Son is the loneliness of his Father.
Refuse not the awareness of your completion, and seek not to restore it
to yourselves.
</div>

You can&rsquo;t do it. You don&rsquo;t know how to do it. Because right
now all you know how to do is to be a pretty damn good orphan, which
means you know how to be pretty damn independent and joining&mdash;union
is a polar opposite&mdash;something which you&rsquo;re not attracted to,
something which you avoid.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Fear not to give redemption over to your Redeemer&rsquo;s Love.
</div>

And this word here, &ldquo;Redeemer,&rdquo; is being used in the
traditional Christian meaning. It means Jesus Christ. It means me.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Fear not to give redemption over to your Redeemer&rsquo;s Love.
</div>

O-oh, is that getting a little too intimate? Is that getting a little
too close? Is that getting a little too dependent? Is that requiring you
to let go of some autonomy that&rsquo;s very important to you? Or is it
just that &hellip; that&rsquo;s too religious! &ldquo;Oh &hellip; give
yourself over to the Redeemer&rsquo;s Love &hellip; yeah, right!
Don&rsquo;t feed me that Christian bull-shit! Don&rsquo;t throw around
that terminology at me!&rdquo;

I know, you have given Love a chance. You have let yourself become
vulnerable. You&rsquo;ve let yourself be defenseless and open, maybe
multiple times and gotten kicked in the teeth. So what you say with our
sarcasm about Christian language and all of that, is really you hoping,
wanting for there to be a true opportunity to experience being loved
that actually uplifts you and confirms everything that is Real about
you, without eventually having it withdrawn. And you don&rsquo;t trust
it.

I understand. And I want you to understand the dynamic in you that
causes you to feel that way, but I also want you to understand that I
love you. I want you to understand that I withhold myself in no way from
you. I want you to understand that I&rsquo;m here for you forever, and
have been here for you. And you&rsquo;re at a place where you can
actually hear me say that to you.

You have arrived at a place where you&rsquo;re showing a little
willingness. And it will bear fruit if you will be faithful to that
willingness. And in spite of your low trust, you must invest the trust,
you must find a consistency of trust in you. Because it&rsquo;s only
through that persisting trust, that its validity and its healing benefit
can register with you, because it causes learning in you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Fear not to give redemption over to your Redeemer&rsquo;s Love.
</div>

Mind you, it didn&rsquo;t say, Fear not to give redemption over to your
Redeemer. Your Redeemer&rsquo;s Love &hellip; Your Redeemer&rsquo;s Love
is the Father&rsquo;s Love unblocked, unhindered in It&rsquo;s extension
to you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He will not fail you&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; I will not fail you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; for He comes from
</div>

&hellip; I come from &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; One Who CANNOT fail.
</div>

The Father.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Accept YOUR sense of failure as nothing more than a mistake in who you
are.
</div>

A mistake is a temporary result of misinformation. Replace the
misinformation with true information and the mistake will not be made.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Accept YOUR sense of failure as nothing more than a mistake in who you
are. For the holy host of God is beyond failure&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you are beyond failure. No matter how much of a failure
you&rsquo;re convinced that you are, no matter how much of a failure
everyone else is convinced you are, it&rsquo;s only a temporary insanity
that everyone is laboring under because this insane idea is being
applied to a Son or Daughter of God who is incapable of failing, but who
behaves like he&rsquo;s failing or she&rsquo;s failing, because he or
she believes failure is possible and that indeed in some way it
happened. But it didn&rsquo;t! And it&rsquo;s just a temporary insanity.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For the holy host of God &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is beyond failure, and nothing that he wills can BE denied. You
are forever in a relationship so holy that it calls to everyone to
escape from loneliness, and join you in your love. And where you are
must everyone seek, and FIND you there.
</div>

But this relationship that you are forever in, that is so holy that it
calls to everyone, won&rsquo;t seem to be actual until you finally
decide to say, &ldquo;Been there! Done that!&rdquo; with regard to
special relationships. And you simply abandon that mindset relative to
relationships with everything.

The simple fact is that when you do that, when you do abandon it, your
holiness will shine, your holiness will radiate, you will be effulgent
with the Love that you Are&mdash;that is You.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And where you are must everyone seek, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and they will and they&rsquo;ll be attracted &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and FIND you there.
</div>

You know, right now, people turn to you for help, people turn to you for
experiences of fulfillment and wholeness. But they&rsquo;re orphans
turning to orphans, or we could say, they&rsquo;re bodies turning to
bodies and that&rsquo;s not where the wholeness is.

So, if &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; where you are everyone must seek, and FIND you there.
</div>

You had better be there yourself. If everyone is supposed to be able to
find you there, then don&rsquo;t let them find you in a special relation
mindset. They won&rsquo;t find the Love that you are, the forgiveness
that you are that will be transformational. Be willing to be where you
are divine, which is in your holy union with the Holy Spirit, and
thereby, the Father, so that God&rsquo;s plan for salvation can register
and begin to grow and finally hit the news &hellip; finally be so
practically real that it is newsworthy news &hellip; that isn&rsquo;t
bad news.

One last thing: The Real relationship is between you and God and then
you and your brother through God&rsquo;s perspective.

Don&rsquo;t approach your brother with any agenda if you&rsquo;re not
riding on God&rsquo;s shoulders, having His perspective available to you
and wanting only to have His perspective expressed where you appear to
be.

I love you all. And I look forward to being with your next time.

[^1]: T15.8 The Holy Instant and Real Relationships
[^2]: Matthew 6:33

