---
title: Sep 19, 2009
ref: "T15.8 The Holy Instant and Real Relationships"
alink: "/acim/text/15/chap1508/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

Well, we&rsquo;re reading from a section entitled, The Holy Instant and
Real Relationships and we found that the first sentence said:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The holy instant does not replace the need for learning, for the Holy
Spirit must not leave you as your Teacher until the holy instant has
extended far beyond time.[^1]
</div>

&hellip; which simply means, until the holy instant has moved you beyond
the place where you&rsquo;re only experiencing holy instants&mdash;an
instant here, an instant there, but where you are moved beyond time
entirely and the learning is complete and your mind is integrated,
it&rsquo;s no longer the Holy Spirit and your private, puny, little
arrogant self-important, self-expressive mentality.

Learning is very key here. Because although you can absorb information,
it doesn&rsquo;t necessarily mean that that information changes you. You
can be full of information that doesn&rsquo;t cause any growth
whatsoever&mdash;doesn&rsquo;t cause any learning whatsoever. And
learning is the key factor.

The Bible says, &ldquo;Be ye transformed by the renewing of your
minds.&rdquo;[^2]

Well, transformation is a good word for learning, isn&rsquo;t it.
Transformation means that the form of a thing has changed&mdash;has
become something new.

&ldquo;Be ye transformed &hellip;&rdquo; by what? &ldquo;The renewing of
your mind.&rdquo;

Well, how does that renewing of your mind occur? In the holy instant.
Learning occurs when you say, &ldquo;What is the truth here,
Father?&rdquo; In other words, when instead of providing the meaning and
providing the definition and asserting it, you back off a little and you
are willing to acquiesce to another point of view&mdash;another way of
looking at it. But not just another way of looking at it, because
you&rsquo;re specifically asking the Holy Spirit, Who is the Voice for
God or which is the Voice for God&mdash;the Voice for truth.

So, what you are inviting is transformation in you as a result of the
renewing of your mind which will inevitably occur when you ask of That
which will be telling you the truth&mdash;the ultimate
truth&mdash;revealing to you the real experience of what things Are, of
what Creation Is, of what the Meaning is of everything. You see?

&ldquo;Be ye transformed &hellip; &rdquo; be ye not like you were
yesterday &hellip; be ye not like you were just before that holy instant
&hellip; &ldquo;Be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind&rdquo; is
another way of describing translating radical idealism into practical
realism.

Now, all of this is very important. Because learning must occur or you
will not Wake up. Learning will occur or the Holy Spirit will not have
accomplished It&rsquo;s function. That which is nothing more than your
right Mind will not have succeeded in reuniting all of you&mdash;all of
what you Are&mdash;so that there is no longer an imagined portion of
yourself that you are choosing to identify as the whole of yourself, and
you have yielded and let that private little tiny portion of the
totality of you be released into the totality of you.

Ah-h &hellip; now, that which is nothing more than your right Mind
becomes the renewing of your mind, which means the transformation of
you, called, &ldquo;Waking up,&rdquo; called, &ldquo;returning to your
Sanity.&rdquo;

Now, we have to stress the learning part, we have to stress the change
part so that you might, for lack of better words, apply yourself in the
direction of actual change and not just a different frame of
mind&mdash;a beautiful spiritual frame of mind that amounts to radical
idealism that hasn&rsquo;t been translated into practical realism where
the Allness of God hasn&rsquo;t yet been made real to you where you are.

Now we ended last time discussing the fact that as this section is
called, The Holy Instant and Real Relationships, the real relationship
is with God. And then from the perspective you find yourself having as a
result of experiencing the real relationship with God, you have a holy
relationship with your Brother. And that is the specific order of
things.

I&rsquo;m going to go into the Book.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Think but an instant on this: God gave the Sonship to you, to ensure
your perfect creation.
</div>

A little bit difficult to comprehend. Because the Sonship of course,
would be all the Sons and Daughters of God&mdash;the whole
Family&mdash;no one left out.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God gave the Sonship to you, to ensure your perfect creation.
</div>

Why would that ensure your perfect creation? Because if any minute part
of the Allness of God, if just one of the Sonship, one of your Brothers
or Sisters was not given to you, was left outside of you, you would not
be whole. You would not be the full representation of the Mind that is
God. So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God gave the Sonship to you, to ensure your perfect creation. This was
His Gift, for as He withheld Himself not from you, He withheld not His
creation.
</div>

Absolutely nothing was withheld from you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Nothing that ever was created but is yours. Your relationships are with
the universe.
</div>

What a statement!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your relationships are with the universe.
</div>

So, let&rsquo;s talk for a moment about learning. In other words,
there&rsquo;s going to be some learning about learning. If your
relationships are universal, if they are with the universe and
there&rsquo;s no other option available to you, then obviously the
experience of it is not going to be like anything you comprehend at the
moment.

It&rsquo;s important for you to understand that all of you have a
tendency to imagine God, to have a &hellip; like a role model that God
fits into. And part of that is helped by the use of the word,
&ldquo;Father,&rdquo; and even the words, &ldquo;Father/Mother
God.&rdquo; And so there&rsquo;s a tendency to look at God as a Father
with the characteristics of a human father, but totally
spiritual&mdash;totally unflawed.

Now, that&rsquo;s a limit. It&rsquo;s a limitation that you have to
abandon. And when I tell you that you are confronted by nothing other
than the Kingdom of Heaven, and that you need to be curious to see the
more of what God is Being right where the universe seems to be&mdash;as
the Kingdom of Heaven&mdash;I&rsquo;m inviting you, and there is a
necessity for you to be willing to be as non-conceptually open to the
greater experience, willing to let it be unlike anything you&rsquo;ve
ever experienced. I don&rsquo;t mean foreign. And when I say,
&ldquo;unlike,&rdquo; I don&rsquo;t mean that it&rsquo;s really going to
be strange or weird or unlike. The necessity is, though, for you to be
willing to let it be unlike anything you&rsquo;ve ever experienced so
that you might not be providing a filter through which the Presence of
God must pass in order to get to you and thus deprive you of the full
experience of what you would have experienced without the filter there.
In other words, to put it simply, you need to be willing to be
completely open.

Now, here&rsquo;s some of the practical realism:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God gave the Sonship to you&hellip;
</div>

Now, that&rsquo;s somewhat comprehensible. We&rsquo;ve discussed it
before. We&rsquo;ve discussed the fact that your completeness is
constituted of everything that exists, including your Brothers and
Sisters&mdash;that your brothers and sisters ultimately are some aspect
of the infinitude of you&mdash;the infinity of you. They are essential
to you and you are essential to them because together you all constitute
wholeness.

Now, that sounds wonderful, something to be looked forward to. And I
know you hope that somehow, God or the Holy Spirit can wave a magic wand
and you would have the experience of harmony and unity with all of your
Brothers and Sisters. Uh-h, but that&rsquo;s not the way it&rsquo;s
going to work. Learning is going to have to happen. Change is going to
have to be allowed. You&rsquo;re going to have to be willing to look at
your Brothers and Sisters, especially the ones you don&rsquo;t like and
especially the ones who don&rsquo;t like you, and be willing to have
your mind transformed by a renewal process.

The renewal process will not occur though, if you&rsquo;re not intent
upon learning, if you&rsquo;re not intent upon changing the status quo.

If there are those who say you are their enemy, what&rsquo;s going to
change that so that this Gift of the Sonship that God gave to you as
part of your wholeness, can be experienced without strife? Well,
somehow, these ones who consider themselves to be your enemy, you must
make friends with. Oh-o-o, somehow those who you don&rsquo;t like,
you&rsquo;re going to have to find a way to make a friend.

Well, you know, you know you have a few people who don&rsquo;t like you.
You know that you have some people you don&rsquo;t like. And you
probably don&rsquo;t think too much about the fact that globally, there
are people who don&rsquo;t like you just because of where you&rsquo;re
from. And if you were to sit down and look at it, you&rsquo;d be
surprised to find that you spend every day of your life in the midst of
tension caused by your negative feelings toward people, and
others&rsquo; negative feelings toward you&mdash;even those you&rsquo;ve
never met, those who&rsquo;ve never seen you, but who are nevertheless
harboring negative feelings about you. And, as you look at that, you
could say, &ldquo;My God, I&rsquo;ll never Wake up! God gave the Sonship
to me to ensure my perfect creation. This was His Gift, for as He
withheld Himself not from me, He withheld not His Creation from me.

&ldquo;Some Gift! But at least I guess I understand a little bit that I
have created a mess out of the Gift. And others in their sense of their
orphanhood have made a mess out of the Gift. And there are so many
people &hellip; there are so many who don&rsquo;t like me and so many
that I don&rsquo;t like, and they probably are not any more willing than
I am to suddenly be friends with the people we don&rsquo;t like.
It&rsquo;s impossible!&rdquo;

Well see, that&rsquo;s thinking. And if you paid attention to the
thinking, there will be a learning. You will be distressed, you will be
discouraged, and you might even be immobilized. That&rsquo;s not good
learning.

What you need to understand is something that you can&rsquo;t figure out
for yourself. What you need to understand is that when you genuinely
turn to the Father by whatever name you call Him, and you desire of Him
to know the truth, or if you turn to the Voice for God, the Holy Spirit,
and ask to know the truth &hellip; and the truth is revealed, I&rsquo;m
going to tell you, that no matter what the details of the question might
have been, you&rsquo;re going to get not only the answers to the
details, but you&rsquo;re going to get, like an &ldquo;up-front
package,&rdquo; one that&rsquo;s automatically included in any answer to
any question that you address to the Father. This package is an
experience of being Loved.

Very simply, it&rsquo;s to find yourself Loved. And those who have
allowed a holy instant and had the experience, have not yet forgotten
it.

Now, the important point here is that when you feel loved by God,
something happens to your mind. It is transformed. And the first part of
the transformation is that it seems totally reasonable for you to be
loved this way. In other words, there&rsquo;s a learning that has
already occurred that you have not yet put into words. And that learning
is: &ldquo;I am loveable!&rdquo; And you just experience it. You are
moved by it without words. There&rsquo;s no need to think about it,
it&rsquo;s just the truth&mdash;you just know it.

And in that transformation where you have joined with the Father first,
you find yourself having a brand new experience regarding your Brother.
You can&rsquo;t mistake the fact, it&rsquo;s a new experience of a fact,
that your Brother&rsquo;s just like you&mdash;lovable&mdash;and loved by
God just like you are being loved by God. And just as it&rsquo;s totally
reasonable for you to be loved, it&rsquo;s in your mind totally
reasonable that your Brother or Sister is loved by God, and you know
with all the fullness that you&rsquo;re experiencing of God&rsquo;s Love
for you.

And so you find yourself spontaneously embracing your Brother whom you
thought it was going to be impossible to embrace. In fact, you will be
able to embrace all of your Brothers that had been called,
&ldquo;enemies&rdquo; because you know they&rsquo;re loveable, because
you know you&rsquo;re loveable first, because you let God love you first
before you looked upon your Brothers and engaged in a holy
relationship&mdash;not on purpose, not because you said, &ldquo;Oh,
I&rsquo;m going to have a holy relationship with my Brother!&rdquo; All
of a sudden you were having a holy relationship with your Brother
because you had learned by virtue of God&rsquo;s love for you, how holy
you were.

Now that&rsquo;s learning. And that is learning that transforms your
mind because your mind was renewed. You see? That&rsquo;s why it&rsquo;s
so important&mdash;it&rsquo;s imperative to turn to the Father first
Whom you have the Real Relationship with.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*The Holy Instant and Real Relationships*
</div>

I&rsquo;m going to start the paragraph over again because now it will
have even more meaning:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Think but an instant on this: God gave the Sonship to you, to ensure
your perfect creation. This was His Gift, for as He withheld Himself not
from you, He withheld not His creation. Nothing that ever was created
but is yours. Your relationships are with the universe.
</div>

It&rsquo;s a brand new kind of experience.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your relationships are with the universe. And this universe, being of
God, is far beyond the petty sum of all the separate bodies YOU
perceive.
</div>

You see, your discouragement would come from all the petty sum of all
the separate bodies you perceive and how on earth, given their
backgrounds and your background and their likes and dislikes and your
likes and dislikes, how on earth could this Gift of the Sonship that was
given to you ever become a Gift you would want because it felt so good
to be One with the whole?

But that problem becomes a non-issue, you see. You don&rsquo;t have to
learn how to make the petty sum of all the separate bodies you perceive,
become harmonized. That&rsquo;s not what&rsquo;s called for.
What&rsquo;s called for is a transformed mind where learning has
occurred that causes Vision to be true and accurate.

Now, here&rsquo;s a little bit more of the practicality of the
translation of radical idealism into practical realism. When you have
this experience&mdash;this holy instant in which you feel God&rsquo;s
Love for you&mdash;and you immediately understand your Brothers and
Sisters and their loveability because of what they so clearly divinely
Are as you&rsquo;re now seeing things, it doesn&rsquo;t mean that your
Brothers and Sisters are going to see themselves that way yet.

But you know what? Now that you&rsquo;ve had this experience, you have
the basis and the premise for making friends because you&rsquo;re no
longer blinded by your prejudices. And so, you will have to engage in
the pleasurable work of creating friendships, inviting them, allowing
them, nurturing them, something you will have&mdash;I&rsquo;m going to
say&mdash;the stamina to do, because the Vision will never leave you,
just as those of you who have had the Vision have never lost it in the
slightest. The point is, it is to be the basis for Being with your
Brothers and Sisters in new ways.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your relationships are with the universe. And this universe, being of
God, is far beyond the petty sum of all the separate bodies YOU
perceive. For all its parts are joined in God through Christ, where
they become like to their Father.
</div>

And you know what? When God loves you and you feel it, and you suddenly
discover that you are loveable and worthy of that experience of being
loved, you will know what the Christ is and you will know it is you
because you will know you are God&rsquo;s Son, you will know you are
God&rsquo;s Daughter, you will know that you are His perfect
Self-Expression and that is the Christ.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For all its parts are joined in God through Christ, where they become
like to their Father. For Christ knows of no separation from His Father,
Who is His One relationship, in which He gives as His Father gives to
Him.
</div>

You see, the steps &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; His Father gives to Him.
</div>

&hellip; and he gives as

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; His Father gives to Him.
</div>

That&rsquo;s what happens as a result of the two-step. That&rsquo;s what
happens as a result of the holy instant. That&rsquo;s the movement and
action of the holy instant.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that which is nothing more than your right Mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is God&rsquo;s attempt to free you of what He does not
understand.
</div>

&hellip; of what God does not understand.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And because of the Source of the attempt, it will SUCCEED.
</div>

Well, God is the Source of the attempt. And it is God&rsquo;s attempt
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit is God&rsquo;s attempt to free you of what He does not
understand. The Holy Spirit asks you to respond as God does, for He
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; would teach you what YOU do not understand.

what YOU do not understand.

God would respond to EVERY need, whatever form it takes. And so He has
kept this channel open to receive His communication to you&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; this channel being the Holy Spirit&mdash;which is nothing more
than your right Mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; He has kept this channel open to receive His &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; God&rsquo;s &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; communication to you, and yours to Him.
</div>

&hellip; yours back to God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God does not understand your problem in communication&hellip;
</div>

[chuckling] &hellip; that&rsquo;s what God doesn&rsquo;t understand.
There is no problem in communication, actually, and God experiences only
that which actually Is.

So&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God does not understand your problem in communication, for He does not
share it with you. It is only you who believe that it IS understandable.
</div>

&hellip; that orphan mentality. Now listen to this:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit knows that it is not understandable, and yet He
understands it because you have MADE it. In Him alone lies the awareness
of what God cannot know, and what you do not understand.
</div>

Now, there&rsquo;s nothing mystical here about it. That which is nothing
more than your right Mind is your right Mind in its totality, which
includes this little boundaried-off portion of itself in its totality.
And It knows exactly how you are maintaining the boundaries, because of
course, you&rsquo;re using It&mdash;the Holy Spirit&mdash;to create
these artificial boundaries and then convince yourself that
they&rsquo;re real. You see?

So you&rsquo;re using the Holy Spirit&mdash;that which is nothing more
than your right Mind&mdash;to create an artificial experience, something
that God, Who Created You cannot understand.

So, the Holy Spirit knows how it&rsquo;s being done. The Holy Spirit
recognizes the mental slight-of-hand, you might say, that you are using
with your mentality in order to have this artificial experience that
you&rsquo;re having, and therefore, knows exactly how to undo it.
It&rsquo;s that simple.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit knows that it is not understandable, and yet He
understands it because you have MADE it. In Him alone lies the awareness
of what God cannot know, and what you do not understand. It is His
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; holy function to accept them both, and by removing every
element of disagreement, to join them into one. He will do this BECAUSE
it is His function.
</div>

The Holy Spirit&mdash;that which is nothing more than your right
Mind&mdash;will demonstrate sanity in every part of Itself, because
sanity is the only thing that is actually there. And you do not have the
will to maintain the illusion indefinitely. It is not a capacity the
Father gave you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Leave, then, what seems to you to be impossible to Him Who knows it MUST
be possible because it is the Will of God.
</div>

Now, let&rsquo;s be careful here:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Leave, then, what seems to you to be impossible to Him Who knows
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; blah &hellip; blah. Well, don&rsquo;t just leave it to Him
[chuckle] and continue to have your day in the orphanage&mdash;day after
day. Leave it to Him in the sense of not trying to imagine what the new
learning will be, without trying to come up with an answer that must
necessarily be built from materials you already have at hand. And the
only materials at the moment you have available to you are the ones
provided by the orphanage. And they&rsquo;re not going to get you out of
the orphanage.

So, you abandon every attempt that you might be inclined to bring to
bear upon the problem&mdash;abandon every one of those&mdash;and turn
the problem over to the Holy spirit, with great attention. And I cannot
stress that strongly enough.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Leave, [then,] what seems to you to be impossible to Him Who knows it
MUST be possible because it is the Will of God. And &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; let Him Whose teaching is ONLY of God teach you the ONLY
meaning of relationships.
</div>

That is what you must be diligently attentive to, else learning will not
occur, change will not occur. And at the bottom line, change is going to
have to occur in order for peace to show up on your planet, or anywhere
else you may take your imagination.

A bunch of you could all migrate to the moon and another bunch of you
could all migrate to Mars and set up colonies and be the forefront of
evolution. Glory, hallelujah! . . and never have learned a thing. Never
have been transformed by the renewing of your Mind. Never having arrived
at a place where you don&rsquo;t have to guard yourself against your
Brother, because you don&rsquo;t like him and he doesn&rsquo;t like you
and it&rsquo;s not natural to like each other. It&rsquo;s natural to be
suspicious because you&rsquo;re all undependable. You&rsquo;re all
undependable. You&rsquo;re undependable and they&rsquo;re undependable.
And you rely on that. You base your laws &hellip; you base your
behaviors on that. You&rsquo;re committed to that. None of you are
dependable. None of you are trustworthy. Bullshit &hellip; or as Paul
likes me to say every once in awhile, &ldquo;camel dung.&rdquo;

Now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; let Him Whose teaching is ONLY of God teach you the ONLY
meaning of relationships. For God created the only relationship which
has meaning, and that is His relationship with YOU.
</div>

Well, don&rsquo;t jump to imaginative conclusions. That doesn&rsquo;t
mean that you will end up having a relationship with God and no one
else, as though all of your Brothers and Sisters were part of an
illusion, when the only relationship there really is, is with your
Father. You could jump to that conclusion and have another false
learning, and set yourself back so that you don&rsquo;t dare do the
two-step, you don&rsquo;t dare to practice the holy instant.

You see, you can&rsquo;t know that your fellowmen are your Brothers and
Sisters if you don&rsquo;t know that you have a Father. If you think
you&rsquo;re an independent free agent that has no First Cause, that
isn&rsquo;t yourself, then you have no capacity to experience your
fellowman as your Brothers and Sisters.

Your real relationship is with your Father and it is your connection
with your Source that connects you with everything else in the Universe.

So, &ldquo;Seek ye first the kingdom of God, and His righteousness; and
all these things will [shall] be added unto you.&rdquo;[^3] &hellip;automatic!
[snaps fingers] It&rsquo;s called learning. It happens in the holy
instant when you actually let yourself be undefended enough to let God
in and feel His Love for you and feel your worthiness of His Love.

You see, learning &hellip; the learning that will count, will be the
learning of things you don&rsquo;t know about at the moment. And yet
your prayers tend to be to ask God to conform the grounds of your
orphanage and the goings-on in your orphanage &hellip; to fix them, to
improve them, to make what you have better, but still in the same mold,
you see.

This learning that is so important, this renewal by the transforming of
your mind is going to require you to be undefended against miraculous
revelation&mdash;miraculous revelation that will not snap you out of the
world and universe, but will snap you out of a perception of the world
and universe that won&rsquo;t just allow peace on Earth, goodwill toward
men to come to view, it will impel it&mdash;not with willfulness, like
setting up rules in the orphanage so that there won&rsquo;t be any
dissonance, but change that happens because you understand the truth,
you have the experience of the truth.

You&rsquo;re having trouble, or your country is having trouble, or the
company you work for is having trouble, or your marriage is having
trouble &hellip; and you ask for the specific trouble to be fixed. You
ask God to fix that. And yet, what&rsquo;s that package that comes along
with your contact with God, whenever you let God in, in a holy instant?
The package that you get that you didn&rsquo;t even ask for and that
you&rsquo;re not really expecting the first few times, is an awareness
that you are Loved by God and that you deserve it&mdash;that you
actually are loveable. You can&rsquo;t explain it and you&rsquo;re not
interested in explaining it. It doesn&rsquo;t matter to you why the
truth is that you&rsquo;re loveable. You just know it and you accept it
and you live with it and you let it be.

Now, that&rsquo;s what you get when you ask for this situation or that
situation or the other situation to be resolved the way you think it
ought to be resolved because you know what principle is and you know
what love is and so-on, you see. You don&rsquo;t know what to ask for.
Ask anything &hellip; ask anything. But don&rsquo;t get hung up on the
request. Don&rsquo;t get hung up on the prayer. Get hung up on the
connection. Do whatever it takes to let God in. And the whatever that it
takes, is you abandoning self-assertive concepts about how things ought
to be working, or self-assertive concepts about how God ought to answer
you, you see?

So, tonight we&rsquo;re learning about learning.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As the ego would limit your perception of your brothers to the body, so
would the Holy Spirit release your vision and let you see the great rays
shining from them, so unlimited that they reach to God.
</div>

Wow! Now, did you think that was going to happen when you wanted a
better salary, or when you wanted so-and-so to mend his ways, or pay you
back for what he stole from you. See, don&rsquo;t think too small.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As the ego would limit your perception of your brothers to the body, so
would the Holy Spirit release your vision and let you see the great rays
shining from them&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; from your brothers &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; so unlimited that they reach to God.
</div>

Now, there have been questions in the past about what the great rays
are. And I began to touch on them last week when I spoke about
effulgence. Effulgence is a glow&mdash;you might call it a streaming of
light from a center. It doesn&rsquo;t move forward. It doesn&rsquo;t
move backwards. It is a radiance &hellip; rays.

Now, what is this effulgence that I spoke of last time? It&rsquo;s the
radiance of Love. There are not many rays, you know, like particular
colors &hellip; this color, the red ray or the blue ray or the purple
ray. The rays are the effulgence of Love. And I&rsquo;ve discussed
before, that Love is Light, Love is illumination and Love is the
Substance of everything.

Where does the effulgence come from? See? Now mind you, we&rsquo;re
talking about things you haven&rsquo;t had the experience of before and
that you might not be expecting when you say, &ldquo;God, I really need
you to get that guy to pay me back, what he stole from me.&rdquo; You
see? You might not be expecting this. And I&rsquo;m wanting you to stop
being so narrow in your desire to know the truth, in your desire to
learn and in your willingness to let your mind be
transformed&mdash;renewed, you see.

Absolutely everything that exists, every idea in the Mind of God, its
substance is Light, its substance is Love. And that Love is an
effulgence that of course, fills all of infinity&mdash;radiating from
everything. The reason being, that everything is loveable and therefore,
everything is actually Loved by God. The Love is part of the Gift God
gives His Creations, because his extension is motivated by Love and so
what He is being there, in all of His Creation, is registered by the
great rays of Love&mdash;effulgent Love, emanating and as it says here:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; so unlimited that they reach to God.
</div>

Well, of course, they reach to God because when you&rsquo;re in this
place, when you&rsquo;re in this Awakened state, you can see that
because your attention has been given to God and your attention on God
has caused you to have this transformed experience, your attention has
returned to God and that completion of the circle of Awareness you might
say, demonstrates to you the natural, eternal state of being that
everything is engaged in. And so you can see and experience the full
circle of radiance.

Now remember, the great rays are simply the rays of effulgence of one
thing, Love, the Father&rsquo;s Love.

And God saw everything that he had made, and behold and it was Himself.
&ldquo;God saw everything that he made, and behold it was verily
God.&rdquo;[^4] And likewise the Son, God&rsquo;s Creation, looks at God
and sees Himself and knows that it is good and can be nothing else. This
is real learning.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is this shift in vision which is accomplished in the holy instant.
Yet it is needful for you to &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; here&rsquo;s that word &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; learn &hellip;

Yet it is needful for you to learn just what this shift entails, so you
will become willing to make it permanent.
</div>

Which means, so you will be willing to commit yourself to it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Given this willingness it will not leave you, for it IS permanent.
</div>

You see, it hadn&rsquo;t ever left &hellip; ever! Right now when
you&rsquo;re not having the experience, doesn&rsquo;t mean that it has
left you. It&rsquo;s there. It&rsquo;s present. It&rsquo;s here.
It&rsquo;s your very Being insisting upon you being willing to embrace
it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For once you have accepted it as the only perception you WANT,
</div>

&hellip; see, that&rsquo;s where the commitment lies.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For once you have accepted it as the only perception you WANT, it is
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what? &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; translated into knowledge by the part which God Himself plays
in the Atonement, for it is the only step in it He understands.
Therefore, in this there will be no delay when you are ready for it. God
is ready NOW, but YOU are not.
</div>

There&rsquo;s no penalty. You&rsquo;re not guilty for not being ready.
Your unready-ness is not unredeemable. It just means that at the moment
you&rsquo;re not doing the two-step yet, at the moment you&rsquo;re not
letting in the fullness of what the transformation of your mind can
mean. But you also haven&rsquo;t known what it could mean. And
it&rsquo;s hard to have impetus or desire to do something you
don&rsquo;t really understand.

But we&rsquo;ve uncovered more of the meaning here so that you can
understand more. And even though understanding isn&rsquo;t the answer,
it can lead you to the point of a willingness to become undefended,
simple, vulnerable with God, with the Father, with the Holy Spirit, so
that you can let it in and experience the holy instant.

I will tell you that you are all bathed in the Love of this lesson
tonight. And you will remain bathed in it. And you will feel it if you
don&rsquo;t insist upon the right to be angry or in charge. And even if
you claim that right, you will at any moment be able to abandon it and
return to the holy instant and return to the meanings that have been
shared tonight, so that you might be encouraged to actually practice the
holy instant and allow for incredible learning&mdash;incredible change.

I love you all. And I look forward to being with you next time.

[^1]: T15.8 The Holy Instant and Real Relationships
[^2]: Romans 12:2
[^3]: Matthew 6:33
[^4]: Genesis 1:31

