---
title: Sep 27, 2009
ref: "T15.8 The Holy Instant and Real Relationships"
alink: "/acim/text/15/chap1508/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

There&rsquo;s so much to talk about&mdash;so much to consider. A sign
outside a church said: &ldquo;If you want to find your way Home, use
GPS: God&rsquo;s plan for salvation.&rdquo;

That is what the sign said. And we&rsquo;ve been talking about
God&rsquo;s plan for salvation, haven&rsquo;t we? &hellip;for quite a few
weeks. We&rsquo;ve been talking about the holy instant and special
relationships, the holy instant and the Laws of God, the holy instant
and communication, and the holy instant and real relationships&mdash;and
all of those were preceded by practicing the holy instant.

The holy instant, simply put, is God&rsquo;s plan for salvation.

Now, when you&rsquo;re depressed, when you&rsquo;re ill, when
you&rsquo;re discouraged, when you&rsquo;re experiencing hurt feelings,
whenever anything negative is going on, it&rsquo;s from one of two
things: It is either from you saying, &ldquo;God&rsquo;s plan for
salvation doesn&rsquo;t work!&rdquo; Or, you&rsquo;re picking up on the
energy of someone else saying, &ldquo;God&rsquo;s plan for salvation
doesn&rsquo;t work!&rdquo; And there&rsquo;s one other option, and that
is, that either you or someone else whom you&rsquo;re picking up on, is
saying, &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t want God&rsquo;s plan for salvation to
work!&rdquo; [chuckles] which means, &ldquo;I want my plan for salvation
to work.&rdquo;

Now mind you, none of those things create a good feeling. None of those
things allow for peace to emerge or for love and joy to emerge from the
peace and provide the environment in which a sudden shift of perception
can occur. Those things simply cannot happen. But God&rsquo;s plan for
salvation does work. And God&rsquo;s plan for salvation is guaranteed to
work.

Now, there should be a cartoon drawn that shows a view of hell with
flames, brimstone and thousands of souls crying and whining and moaning
and talking about their distress and the unfairness of it all &hellip;
and talking story and never-ending grumbling. And on a pinnacle
overlooking all of this, stands me, stands Jesus. And the caption says,
&ldquo;If you want to get out of hell, the first thing you must do is
SHUT UP!&rdquo; which of course, is the first step of the two-step,
isn&rsquo;t it.

If you want to get out of hell, if you want to get out of the constant
rehearsing of your bad luck and the constant rehearsing of the
unreasonableness and the injustice of what&rsquo;s going on in your
life, the first thing you must do is shut-up!

The two-step is another description of the holy instant. You can&rsquo;t
hear God when you&rsquo;re talking. You can&rsquo;t hear anything else
when you&rsquo;re talking and complaining. The reason you&rsquo;re
talking, the reason you&rsquo;re complaining is so that someone else
will hear you. So you&rsquo;re not interested in listening, you&rsquo;re
interested in someone else listening&mdash;you&rsquo;re interested in
occupying someone else&rsquo;s mind and attention with your story, with
your distress, with how terrible it is in hell and the fact that
God&rsquo;s plan for salvation doesn&rsquo;t work. So therefore, you are
eternally stuck in hell, right?

But there is a way out. There&rsquo;s a way out of the hell that&rsquo;s
called, &ldquo;The human condition,&rdquo; the hell that is made up of
the constant state of ignorance and the suffering that accompanies not
knowing the truth. There is a way out. It requires you to utilize the
holy instant. It requires you to get what you want to say out of the
picture. It requires that you stop being the authority&mdash;the
asserter, if you will. It requires that you become still and receptive.
It requires you to bring yourself into the quietness, which will always
bring your attention to the instant you&rsquo;re in&mdash;free of the
past, free of the future&mdash;the holy instant.

Because you&rsquo;re Mind, because you are the state of attention
Itself, when you bring yourself into the quietness of the present, you
are a natural presence of curiosity&mdash;an invitation to know
something. And since you are not determining what it is that you must
know, that simple pure attention, that simple pure presence of curiosity
will constitute a prayer: &ldquo;I want to know &hellip; I want to know
&hellip;&rdquo; and the only thing there to respond is the Father
through the Voice for Truth, the Holy Spirit, that which is nothing more
than your right Mind.

Now we&rsquo;ve talked at lengths about this for a number of weeks. And
I want to take a moment tonight to point out to you that the purpose of
talking about this has not only been to emphasize the fact that the
Father&rsquo;s plan for salvation works and is guaranteed to work, the
goal of the plan for salvation is not the specific answers to your
specific prayers, but is to bring you back into your right Mind. To
bring you to that place of inquiry within yourself of the Holy Spirit,
which is nothing more than your right Mind, that which when it responds
to you, is your right Mind connecting you in your very private sense of
a small mind and undoing the boundary between the two, which allows the
influx of the Father&rsquo;s perspective. And when you find that state
of being to be more important to you than anything else, a right mind
and a wrong mind disappear. Your right Mind, the Holy Spirit, and the
little separated off part of that Mind, which you&rsquo;ve claimed to be
the entirety of you, which has been designated as the ego, those two
things cease to be two things because the boundary&mdash;the artificial
boundary separating off a small part of what you are in your
entirety&mdash;has dissolved and unity, wholeness, totality has replaced
it. The integrity and wholeness of you that is in no way different from
the Mind of God has re-emerged as your actual conscious experience of
Being. And for lack of better words, sanity has returned to you.

Now, the point of all of it is, not to get a leg up on the human
condition, not to have a way to make the human condition
improve&mdash;although that will happen. The point of it all, is to no
longer be crazy&mdash;if I may be blunt&mdash;is to no longer be
experiencing distortions and thinking that what you&rsquo;re
experiencing is actual, real, orderly and the stuff of life which
somehow you have a way of imagining that God created that way so that
you&rsquo;re completely at peace with an experience of stress, of sin,
disease, death, suffering. You see?

So, a sudden shift of perception&mdash;a Miracle&mdash;occurs in the
holy instant. And at the bottom line, the sudden shift of perception
that is the point of it all, is you experiencing the healing of
insanity&mdash;you coming fully back into your right Mind&mdash;your
inseparable Oneness with God where every aspect of you reflects an
intent, that intent being &ldquo;Thy Will be Done,
God&mdash;Father.&rdquo;

That&rsquo;s what you were made for. That&rsquo;s what you experimented
with having a slight twist on, and it&rsquo;s that, that you will come
back to. Because as I said last time, you cannot maintain that distorted
perception indefinitely.

Now, I&rsquo;m going to back up one paragraph:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As the ego would limit your perception of your brothers to the
body&hellip;[^1]
</div>

&ldquo;Oh yeah, she&rsquo;s a body, he&rsquo;s a body, she&rsquo;s a
body, I&rsquo;m a body, she&rsquo;s a she and I&rsquo;m a he and, wow,
we can do great things together as he and she bodies &hellip;&rdquo; and
so on, you see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As the ego would limit your perception of your brothers to the body, so
would the Holy Spirit release your vision and let you see the great rays
shining from them&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; shining from what? Their bodies, or shining from them, your
Brothers? The illumination of the great rays is the illumination
emanating from your Brothers and Sisters&mdash;the presence of God
called You and your Brothers and Sisters. Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As the ego would limit your perception of your brothers to the body, so
would the Holy Spirit &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that which is nothing but your right Mind that intends for you
to regain your sanity &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; so would the Holy Spirit
</div>

&hellip; accomplish this by releasing your vision &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and let you see the great rays shining from them, so unlimited
that they reach to God. It is this shift in vision which is
accomplished in the holy instant.
</div>

The holy instant is God&rsquo;s plan for salvation.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet it is needful for you to learn just what this shift entails, so you
will become willing to make it permanent.
</div>

To make commitment to it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Given this willingness it will not leave you, for it IS permanent.
</div>

You see. It&rsquo;s only your willingness to give your attention to it
that is impermanent at the moment.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Given this willingness it will not leave you, for it IS permanent. For
once you have accepted it as [what] the only perception you WANT, it is
translated into knowledge by the part which God Himself plays in the
Atonement, for it is the only step in it He understands.
</div>

It&rsquo;s actually at this point that your right Mind and your
ego&mdash;personality, your wrong mind&mdash;disappear as a twosome,
because, as I said, the artificial boundary separating off this small
part of you from the Totality of you dissolves. Now it&rsquo;s all the
Presence of Mind that is God Being all there is of You, and your having
no further different experience of that.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Therefore, in this there will be no delay when you are ready for it. God
is ready NOW, but YOU are not.
</div>

Now, continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Our task is but to continue, as fast as possible, the necessary process
of looking straight at all the interference, and seeing it EXACTLY as it
is. For it is impossible to recognize as wholly WITHOUT gratification
what you think you WANT.
</div>

You see. You wouldn&rsquo;t want it if there was not some form of
gratification in it. And so what doesn&rsquo;t contribute to your
sanity, even though you presently find gratification from it, has to go
through a transformation of some sort that allows you to see that
it&rsquo;s not gratifying you, that although the thrill of the chase may
be exciting, the fact that you never consummate it by catching what
you&rsquo;re chasing, that should be all it takes for you to abandon
what doesn&rsquo;t work and to abandon thinking that there&rsquo;s
satisfaction in trying to accomplish what can&rsquo;t be accomplished.

Now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The body is the symbol of the ego, as the ego is the symbol of the
separation.
</div>

Okay, so here we are &hellip; here you are &hellip; you are the Presence
of Mind as God has Created you &hellip; as God is Creating you &hellip;
as God is Being you.

You are the unseparated totality of the conscious awareness of infinity
and eternity that&rsquo;s called Creation&mdash;the conscious experience
of all that God is Being eternally. And then for some strange reason,
it&rsquo;s as though you&rsquo;ve blown a little soap bubble right in
the middle of this infinite Mind that is your presence&mdash;that is
presencing itself, and it&rsquo;s you. And this little soap bubble has
enclosed a small part of the totality so that everything in it is some
part of the totality of God, of You.

Everything in it&rsquo;s Real, but the boundary&rsquo;s artificial, but
the boundary is being interpreted as you. And it&rsquo;s a novel
experience. And you have fun with it initially. You&rsquo;re enjoying
the autonomy, the separation. Okay?

This part of the infinity of you that is enclosed in this very delicate
bubble, that has no strength really to maintain itself, we have
identified as the ego.

So, the separation, which really means that a flimsy surface&mdash;a
sphere&mdash;has enclosed a part of the infinity of you, it becomes the
symbol of separation. And then from that tiny vantage point something
that hadn&rsquo;t been important on its own before suddenly has become
important. And it&rsquo;s what you call your body.

And so, the body is the symbol of the ego as the ego is the symbol of
the separation. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And both are nothing more than attempts to limit communication, and
thereby to make it impossible.
</div>

Oh communication &hellip; communication with what? Communication with
the whole of you, because you know what? That which God Created called
You, is that infinite awareness that God Is. And God&rsquo;s
Self-expression is infinite and so there is the Brotherhood. And all of
your Brothers and Sisters, all the Sons and Daughters of God,
we&rsquo;ll say, are present in this infinite Mind that is God, that is
Creation, that is your conscious experience of Being.

The moment you drew this little sphere around a small portion of the
infinitude of You and then identified it very specifically with this
body, this visibility and tangibility of you&mdash;although not the
totality of you&mdash;you lost communication, you lost direct
communication with all of the Brotherhood.

And I&rsquo;ve described this before in a helpful way: If you would
imagine a large crystal ball with many facets all around the surface of
the ball and if you were to imagine every facet as what you could call
an individuality&mdash;you and all of the Brotherhood, all of the
Sonship&mdash;well if you were to be inside this crystal sphere with all
the facets and you saw all of the facets from the interior, you would
recognize Mary and Joe and Peter and all of the Sonship. And they would
just be over at the other side of you, so to speak, as you would be over
at the other side of them. And the interior of the crystal ball would be
the continuity of you extending to everything and everyone else. For
everyone else the interior of this ball and all of the other facets
would constitute part of the totality of them. All of you would be the
same One, you might say. In this way you could see that you have
communication with everyone and no one is different from you, but no one
is the same as you.

But now, you&rsquo;ve had this little imaginative experience of
separating a small part of you from the totality. And in effect
it&rsquo;s as though the facet you are, on the surface, that you were
experiencing from the interior, flips, and suddenly you&rsquo;re on the
exterior. And now there&rsquo;s Mary and Joe and well, you can&rsquo;t
quite see everybody anymore, but there are a bunch that are close by,
but now you have to yell, you have to do something to get their
attention because they&rsquo;re not all connected with you, but
they&rsquo;re all close by.

And so you&rsquo;ve lost communication, you&rsquo;ve lost union,
you&rsquo;ve lost communion. You see? You&rsquo;ve lost communication.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The body is the symbol of the ego, as the ego is the symbol of the
separation. And both are nothing more than attempts to limit
communication, and thereby to make it impossible. For communication must
be unlimited &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you might say, it must occur from within where the wholeness of
all is continuous and unseparated &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; in order to have meaning, and DEPRIVED of meaning it will not
satisfy you completely.
</div>

Yeah, flipped over on the outside, trying to experience connection and
relationship &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; will not satisfy you completely. Yet it remains the only means
by which you can establish real relationships.
</div>

Unlimited communication &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; remains the only means by which you can establish real
relationships.
</div>

So you might say, that Waking up is doing the two-step, leaning into the
Father, you might say, it&rsquo;s sort of like leaning into the interior
of the crystal ball so that a sudden shift of perception can
occur&mdash;a flip-flop. You see? Why? Because you&rsquo;ve abandoned
the glory you thought would be embodied in your being on the outside
where the facet that you were was quite distinct from all the rest and
might become something of importance on its own, you see.

But, continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Real relationships HAVE no limits, having been established by God.
</div>

Real relationships are the relationships from the interior of the
crystal ball.

Now, we&rsquo;re going to leave the crystal ball simple and continue
here:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In the holy instant, where the great rays REPLACE the body in awareness,
the recognition of relationships without limits is given you.
</div>

What does that mean, where the great rays REPLACE the body in awareness?
In other words, when the illumination of Love that is the substance and
character and nature and motivation and presence of your Brothers and
Sisters and You, when they replace the body in terms of importance, when
they replace the body and the uses you&rsquo;ve been putting the body to
for communication, the recognition of relationships without limits is
given you. It doesn&rsquo;t mean that there&rsquo;s no longer anything
there identifying you, it means that the meaning of body has shifted
from a limited means of communication to an effulgence of love that
reaches all the way to the Father, completing the circle of communion,
of communication, of making one a wholeness out of what had been two.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In the holy instant, where the great rays REPLACE the body in awareness,
the recognition of relationships without limits is given you.
</div>

Sudden shift of perception: A whole new way of being with each other,
where the meanings of being with each other are new, not usury, not
stemming from smallness, defense, self-protection, but which are an
interactive acknowledgement of truth, an interactive acknowledgement of
God in each of you, in all of you all at the same time, an experience of
joy that also is unlimited, an experience of joy that you feel but is
shared by all of the Sonship. And then their joy that they are sharing
with you gets shared back with you, so that the joy becomes a Movement
of Love spreading through the Sonship, engulfing it in its wholeness, in
its totality.

It&rsquo;s a new experience, far more meaningful than what you&rsquo;ve
been experiencing while thinking that you&rsquo;re just bodies
communicating to each other through bodies.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
But to see this, it is necessary to give up every use the ego has for
the body, and to accept the fact that the ego has NO purpose you would
share with It &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you see? Here&rsquo;s where you have to arrive at discovering
that what you want isn&rsquo;t what you want, because what you have
wanted is this &ldquo;chase after the carrot&rdquo; that can&rsquo;t
ever be accomplished, or consummated. It&rsquo;s meaningless and
you&rsquo;re ready to see it as meaningless and to give it up&mdash;to
just abandon it! [snaps fingers] That&rsquo;s how the flip of the facet
from the outside to the inside occurs.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For the ego would limit everyone to a body for ITS purposes, and while
you think it HAS a purpose, you will choose to utilize the means by
which IT tries to turn its purpose into accomplishment.
</div>

[Chuckling] &hellip; which is to continue running after that carrot
forever! And thereby provide yourself for a forever experience of
frustration and seeming justification to think that God&rsquo;s plan for
salvation doesn&rsquo;t work.

The learning here is, you arriving at a point where you&rsquo;re willing
to look straight at exactly what is happening and not gloss it over with
imagination, so that you say, &ldquo;Hey, I&rsquo;ve been chasing this
carrot for my whole life and I&rsquo;ve thought it was getting me
somewhere. But if I&rsquo;m going to be honest with myself, it
hasn&rsquo;t gotten me where I thought it was going to get me and
therefore, I&rsquo;m going to give up on that and I&rsquo;m going to try
God&rsquo;s plan for salvation.&rdquo;

Well, you know what? You can practice the holy instant and maybe
because there&rsquo;s residual reluctance to believe that what it
represents can be true, you don&rsquo;t experience it. And then you seem
to have justification for saying, &ldquo;But, God&rsquo;s plan for
salvation doesn&rsquo;t work!&rdquo; Well, I&rsquo;m here to tell you
that it does and that it is guaranteed to work and that if you have a
seeming incapacity to believe that it works, you have to persist in the
face of it.

Now, you know what? The way to experience your Real relationship, which
is with God, is to join with the Holy Spirit, which is the Voice for
God, but is also that which is nothing more than your right Mind. And
you say, &ldquo;Well, I can&rsquo;t hear my Guide &hellip; God&rsquo;s
plan for salvation doesn&rsquo;t work &hellip; I can&rsquo;t hear my
Guide!&rdquo;

Well, you know what? You may wait from week-to-week to hear Paul let me
speak, so to speak, as a substitute for hearing your Guide. But you know
what? More than the information that I lovingly share with you every
week, you are seeing a demonstration of the fact that the two-step
works. You are seeing a demonstration of the fact that the holy instant
works. You are seeing a demonstration of the fact that God&rsquo;s plan
for salvation works, even though Paul hasn&rsquo;t made total commitment
yet.

The point is, that when you say, in so many words, that the only way
back Home that you&rsquo;ve been told about&mdash;which is to connect
with your Guide, which is the Holy Spirit&mdash;doesn&rsquo;t work for
you, [repeats] that the only way back Home that you&rsquo;ve been told
about doesn&rsquo;t work for you, you&rsquo;re creating a false learning
for yourself and delaying the inevitable. You could call it a learning
failure. Don&rsquo;t do it!

You think Paul just [snaps fingers] one moment said, &ldquo;I want to
talk to my Guide, are you there?&rdquo; &hellip; and I was there? Well I
was there, but he didn&rsquo;t hear me. And he didn&rsquo;t hear me the
second or third time, and days went by. The only reason he heard me was
because he persisted and he finally arrived at a point where his
listening wasn&rsquo;t conditional.

In other words, he wasn&rsquo;t saying, &ldquo;If you speak to me
tonight, I will listen,&rdquo; or &ldquo;If you speak to me within the
next two weeks, I will continue to listen, but I&rsquo;m not going to do
this forever.&rdquo; He tried that. And then he arrived at a point where
he said, &ldquo;You know, if it takes a year, if it takes two years, I
want to be able to experience what the truth is when I need to know what
it is. And that&rsquo;s more important to me than a time limit,
that&rsquo;s more important to me than trying to leverage the universe,
to get it to do what it&rsquo;s going to do when I want it.&rdquo;

And so he started sitting down to listen with resolve, not force, not
willfulness, but with an absence of impatience. And you&rsquo;re going
to have to do the same thing because it&rsquo;s the only way Home.

If you want to get out of hell, the first thing you&rsquo;re going to
have to do is shut up! There地in&rsquo;t好o她ther安ay! And it is a very
direct route. But you&rsquo;re used to complaining. You&rsquo;re used to
what might be called, an orphanage welfare system, where the worse your
need is the more help you get and the less need there is for you to do
anything to upset the status quo. You see?

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the ego would limit everyone to a body for ITS purposes&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; which are to chase after the carrot&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and while you think it HAS a purpose, you will choose to
utilize the means by which IT tries to turn its purpose into
accomplishment. This will never BE accomplished.
</div>

See, that&rsquo;s the honesty that you have to arrive at, the awareness:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This will never BE accomplished. Yet you have surely recognized that the
ego, whose goals are altogether unattainable, will strive for them with
all its might, and will do so with the strength which
</div>

&hellip; what?&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; YOU have given it.
</div>

You know what? The capacity to have an intent that exists inside the
bubble that&rsquo;s floating around in the middle of the infinity of you
is the same intent that&rsquo;s outside of it. You, the holy Son of God,
express an intent with all of the power of the holy Son of God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the ego, whose goals are altogether unattainable, will strive
for them with all its might, and will do so &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what? Not with its strength, but &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; with the strength which YOU&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the holy Son of God &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; have given it.
</div>

The only thing is, you really like this little delicate bubble.
[chuckles] And you say, &ldquo;I have no power! I want something, but I
don&rsquo;t have any power! I&rsquo;m not connected with any power
source. I just have my own guts and my own capacity to try to do things.
And I&rsquo;m improving it all the time, you see, but I&rsquo;m really
helpless and hopeless. And I&rsquo;m really struggling in my
life.&rdquo; And oh, there you are down by the river sticks with all the
flames and talking story about how awful it is and how stuck you are.
You see? And it&rsquo;s all crap! It&rsquo;s all imaginary! And it all
seems believable because you just love this bubble&mdash;which I must
repeat&mdash;is so delicate that it really is not going to take any
force from you to pop it. Okay? And that&rsquo;s what we&rsquo;re
learning about the two-step and the holy instant.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is impossible to divide your strength between Heaven and hell, God
and the ego, and release your power unto creation, which is the only
purpose for which it was given you.
</div>

You see? You can&rsquo;t split up your attention and give your full
attention to two different things at the same time. Thus communication
is interrupted, thus wholeness is unavailable to you as an experience,
thus sin, disease and death and suffering and stories to tell as you
burn, burn, burn, occupy your time. And you willingly let it. But you
don&rsquo;t have to. And it&rsquo;s not appropriate and it doesn&rsquo;t
work, and that&rsquo;s where you need to become honest so that you dare
to go through your day tomorrow or today, willing to see things new,
willing to let the bubble pop.

And the way you will to have it pop, without using force or bringing
force to bear upon it, is to simply neglect to do anything else. You
see? Simply neglect to do anything else. In other words, shut up!

Shutting up brings you into quietness. Shutting up brings you into
quietness that is peace. Shutting up brings you into quietness which is
peace, which is the now, which is the instant in which the attention
that you are, because you are Mind, constitutes an unwillful desire that
allows the Father to answer, that allows the Holy Spirit to answer
[snaps fingers] and break, pop the bubble and bring back into Oneness
that which always had been One except for this little flimsy bubble that
looked like it separated this part from the big part.

Your power, your presence is meant to extend unto Creation. It is meant
to be in constant communication with every part of eternity, of
infinity. And because its nature and function is Love, it&rsquo;s a
Movement&mdash;a forever Movement of &ldquo;Behold I make all things
new&rdquo;&mdash;Creation.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Love would ALWAYS give increase. Limits are demanded by the ego,
representing its demands to make little and ineffectual. Limit your
vision of a brother to his body, which you WILL do as long as you would
not release him from it, and you have denied his gift to YOU.
</div>

If you refuse to look at your brother with a willingness to see
something new and very different from him as a physical organism, if you
will look at your brother with a curiosity to see God there,
truly&mdash;truly because you&rsquo;ve been told that God is the only
thing that is there&mdash;and you release him from your expectation that
he will behave like the body you always thought he was &hellip;
what&rsquo;s happened? You&rsquo;ve provided the environment in which an
influx of revelation can occur that will help you see your brother
through the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s eyes, through the eyes of your right
Mind. And that recognition about your brother will tell you that
it&rsquo;s the truth about you as well. And so the gift you give to him
you get to keep. And you are put in the position of finding that a
Movement has occurred that you can only identity truly as learning,
because you&rsquo;re not where you were just before the holy instant.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
His body CANNOT give it.
</div>

His body CANNOT give the gift you need, which is the realization of the
holy Son of God that you Are, which is a realization that you are, your
very Being is an effulgence of Light, an effulgence of Living Love,
constituting great rays that return to God and fill the universe, fill
Creation.

Your determination to see your fellowman as a body disallows for that
experience, disallows for that revelation and learning.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
His body CANNOT give it. And seek it not through YOURS.
</div>

How many times do you use your body to elicit a good response or a gift
from another?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; seek it not through YOURS.
</div>

Seek it not through your body.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet your minds are ALREADY continuous, and their union need only be
accepted, and the loneliness in Heaven is gone.
</div>

Again, when that facet flips to the inside so that your view of
everything is an interior view, you find that your minds, the minds that
appeared to be individual and separated from the outside of the faceted
crystal ball are really continuous and unseparated in any way when
viewed from the interior. And even though they are continuous, the
facets do not disappear. The Sonship does not dissolve into an
undifferentiated mass of Love.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; your minds are ALREADY continuous&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; right now when you&rsquo;re not experiencing it all simply
because you&rsquo;re flipped to the outside and you&rsquo;re looking
around on the surface &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; your minds are ALREADY continuous, and their union need only be
accepted, and the loneliness in Heaven is gone.

If you would but let the Holy Spirit tell you of the Love of God for
you, and the need your creations have to be with you forever, you would
experience the attraction of the eternal.

[Repeats] If you would but let the Holy Spirit tell you&hellip;
</div>

If you would but let the telling of the Holy Spirit register with you,
this would be your experience, cause the Holy Spirit hasn&rsquo;t
stopped for a moment from that time when you decided to ignore
It&mdash;the totality of you&mdash;in favor of this interior of a flimsy
little soap bubble.

Remember, we&rsquo;re not here to repair or reform the orphanage.
We&rsquo;re not here to improve the human condition. We&rsquo;re here to
have sanity returned, so that the Kingdom of Heaven is re-recognized as
the Kingdom of Heaven, because you&rsquo;ve decided not to observe it
through the lens of private selfhood and independence that cause it to
be nothing more than a physical universe, having nothing to do with God
and being Holy in no way.

You might say, &ldquo;Wow, I could never have gotten all of that out of
those few paragraphs all by myself.&rdquo; And that would be the truth.
Thank God you have a Guide. Thank God there is the More of you outside
of the little flimsy bubble, called the Holy Spirit that is your right
Mind. Because the fullness of Reality becomes available to you like
this, without your having to tune in to someone else when you stop
whining about your situation and shut up. That&rsquo;s the way out of
hell. That&rsquo;s the way out of suffering.

Enjoy shutting up this week&mdash;often! And I look forward to being
with you next time.

[^1]: T15.8 The Holy Instant and Real Relationships

