---
title: Oct 10, 2009
ref: "T15.8 The Holy Instant and Real Relationships"
alink: "/acim/text/15/chap1508/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

You know, when the automobile was first invented, it was styled,
we&rsquo;ll say, after the buggy, as in horse-and-buggy. And the
tendency is, as unfoldment occurs, as growth occurs, as change occurs,
the new is modeled after the old and as a result, what is new
doesn&rsquo;t change as rapidly or is not as new as it could be because
you carry forward the old habits into the forming of new ones.

Now, I&rsquo;m bringing this up because there&rsquo;s something
important. We read a short time ago:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; it is necessary to give up every use the ego has for the body,
and to accept the fact that the ego has NO purpose you would share with
it. For the ego would limit everyone to a body for ITS purposes, and
while you think it HAS a purpose, you will choose to utilize the means
by which IT tries to turn its purpose into accomplishment.[^1]
</div>

Well, what might that mean? Well, I&rsquo;m going to put it simply: You
know, if you find yourself having nothing to do and you find yourself
having nothing to do over a period of days or weeks&mdash;much like
someone who&rsquo;s retired, we&rsquo;ll say&mdash;a feeling of
depression can develop because there&rsquo;s no feeling of purpose,
right? There&rsquo;s no feeling of purpose. And one could say,
&ldquo;Well, why don&rsquo;t you find something to do. You could do
this, or you could do that.&rdquo;

But when you&rsquo;re confronted with that, it isn&rsquo;t really just
about having something to do. Purpose is about having a goal in the
process of which you&rsquo;re bettering yourself. Purpose, in order for
it to be truly Purpose&mdash;we&rsquo;ll say, with a capital
&ldquo;P,&rdquo; and I&rsquo;m not really meaning divine purpose,
I&rsquo;m meaning ultimate human Purpose&mdash;isn&rsquo;t something
that&rsquo;s accomplished by being &hellip; um &hellip; the best
housekeeper or the best cleaning lady for twenty years, or the best
mail-clerk in a corporation for thirty years. Purpose involves climbing
up the ladder of success in the corporation, so that at the end of the
thirty years you are more than you were in the beginning. You have made
something of yourself, right?

So Purpose amounts to engaging in a process of accomplishment, and
therefore, activities which don&rsquo;t serve that Purpose are not seen
as activities of Purpose. It&rsquo;s important to understand this.

So, if you have come from a family and an upbringing in which Purpose is
important and you have become Purposeful, and then A Course In Miracles
or religion in general comes into your experience and you learn of
things like God&rsquo;s plan of salvation, it seems utterly natural to
you to transfer your definition and practice of Purpose into this new
arena&mdash;which really doesn&rsquo;t fit in this new arena. It&rsquo;s
meaningless in this new arena.

And then when you read something like we just read recently:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Our task is but to continue, as fast as possible, the necessary process
of looking straight at all the interference, and seeing it EXACTLY as it
is. For it is impossible to recognize as wholly WITHOUT gratification
what you think you WANT.
</div>

Whoa boy! Now that gives you something to do, doesn&rsquo;t it? However,
if you remember, I didn&rsquo;t read it that way when we were at that
point. Whew!

And so, you know what? You can become as the old hymn says: &ldquo;An
onward Christian soldier.&rdquo; A soldier for Christ &hellip; a soldier
for God. And you can go out to ferret out every single error there is,
and uncover it so that you can see what&rsquo;s keeping you back or you
can apply it to others so that you can show them what&rsquo;s holding
them back. Why? So that you have Purpose. And so that through the
practice of this Purpose you might weed out and clear out those
negatives in you that are keeping you from moving forward, or so that
you can help others weed out what&rsquo;s keeping them from moving
forward.

Oh-h &hellip; but then we have the first sentence in the text for
tonight:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you would but let the Holy Spirit tell you of the Love of God for
you, and the need your creations have to be with you forever, you would
experience the attraction of the eternal.
</div>

Well, where does that leave you if you are supposed to be diligent and
even militant in terms of routing out error and uncovering it and
getting rid of it? Well, it&rsquo;s very important to understand that
because you don&rsquo;t know what Reality is yet &hellip; you
don&rsquo;t really know what the illusions are yet &hellip; and so you
don&rsquo;t know what needs to be routed out.

Now the simple fact is that as I&rsquo;ve said before, as you proceed in
your Awakening, you are retracing the steps you took away from the
Father. You&rsquo;re undoing the creation of an illusory experience that
you created for yourself.

And you know what? If you&rsquo;re undoing the ten thousandth step, if
that&rsquo;s where you are and you try to undo the fiftieth step, it
isn&rsquo;t going to work. And how do you know which step it is?
I&rsquo;m going to tell you something really important:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you would but let the Holy Spirit tell you of the Love of God for
you&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and I&rsquo;m just going to stop there.

You say, &ldquo;Well, I don&rsquo;t have time to let the Holy Spirit
tell me of the Love of God for me because I&rsquo;ve got too much work
to do to clean out all the crap that&rsquo;s going on in my mind.&rdquo;

Well, like I said, you don&rsquo;t know which is the next crap to get
rid of because you don&rsquo;t know what the most recent one was that
needs to be undone. But &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you would but let the Holy Spirit tell you of the Love of God for
you&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; if that&rsquo;s where you would give your attention, if you
would say, &ldquo;Holy Spirit, I want to know about the Love of God for
me,&rdquo; you&rsquo;re going to find out if your desire is genuine.
You&rsquo;re going to find out very quickly what stands in the way of
that. You&rsquo;ll find out very quickly what the argument is against
your having that. You&rsquo;re very likely to find out that you
don&rsquo;t think that God loves you. Maybe because you read that He is
a jealous God, visiting the iniquities of the fathers upon the children
under the third and fourth generation. So He probably doesn&rsquo;t love
you. Okay &hellip; so there&rsquo;s the next thing to deal with.

Or perhaps you think&mdash;the thought arises&mdash;because you&rsquo;re
engaging in actually, genuinely desiring to have God&rsquo;s Love for
you revealed to you by the Holy Spirit, you&rsquo;re very likely to find
out that you feel unworthy of His Love, because of course, you
haven&rsquo;t bettered yourself enough yet. Your Purpose of
&ldquo;bettering yourself&rdquo; hasn&rsquo;t brought you to the place
yet&mdash;you say&mdash;where God would love you or where God would give
you the time of day, even though He may be watching you, waiting for you
to arrive at the first threshold where He can appropriately acknowledge
you by letting you know of His Love for you, you see.

You know, I keep saying, ask: &ldquo;What is the truth here? What is the
truth about this situation?&rdquo;&mdash;meaning what is God&rsquo;s
truth about this situation? What&rsquo;s God&rsquo;s truth about this
place called Earth? Well, the truth about this place called Earth is
that it&rsquo;s Heaven. It is not the truth about this place called
Earth that it&rsquo;s a difficult place to live&mdash;a place where you
have to be on guard all the time, it&rsquo;s a place where you have to
be sure that iniquities don&rsquo;t get out of hand and on and on and
on.

The truth is, about this place called Earth, that it&rsquo;s the Kingdom
of Heaven. Wow, that turns your head in a new direction. That turns your
contemplations and your willingness to be aware into a far more
expansive arena, doesn&rsquo;t it? And the moment you let that happen,
whatever means you have been using to keep yourself from experiencing
it, will come to your attention. And that&rsquo;s what you will deal
with.

And you know what? You may not have a hell of a lot of time to be
noticing what your brother is doing wrong, so that you might bring him
up to speed [snaps fingers] being the warrior that you are for God. You
see. [deep sigh]

What I&rsquo;m trying to bring out here is, that it very often slips
past you &hellip; the fact slips past you that you try to bring the
buggy design into the horseless carriage design&mdash;the automobile
design. It escapes you that your sense of Purpose which involves a
process of bettering yourself because your not good enough yet, into
what I&rsquo;ll call the area of spirituality in which the real
opportunity you have is to discover that you&rsquo;re neither behind the
point of perfection nor advancing toward it, you&rsquo;re at that point
and must understand ayourself therefrom.

Now, if you&rsquo;re not behind and you&rsquo;re not advancing toward,
then what are you doing looking for faults? I&rsquo;ve pointed out
before, that if you go on an internal witch hunt, the ego will give you
an endless list of faults to find and take care of. And in that process
you&rsquo;ll never withdraw your attention from the ego&rsquo;s
teachings. You&rsquo;re going to stay bound tight, in a tight
relationship with it. But turn your attention toward God and His Love,
with a desire to experience It. And those things which it&rsquo;s as
necessary for you to let go of in order to have the experience, will
present themselves to you, within you, as arguments against It, that you
can take a look at and say, &ldquo;Wow, I need to release that!&rdquo;
&ldquo;Father &hellip;&rdquo; um-m, see don&rsquo;t try to figure out
how to release it yourself &hellip; &ldquo;Holy Spirit, help me release
this. What is the truth that is so evidently the truth that I will
recognize it as the truth and will have no difficulty letting go of what
isn&rsquo;t true.&rdquo; You see? &ldquo;Help me.&rdquo; But this has to
be done in the arena of Love.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you would but let the Holy Spirit tell you of the Love of God for
you, and &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in other words, as well as &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and the need your creations have to be with you forever, you
would experience the attraction of the eternal.
</div>

Now, you know what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you would experience the attraction of the eternal.
</div>

And I&rsquo;m going to add: In that experience there would be the
realization that you would feel the attraction of the eternal for the
eternal&mdash;meaning for you. You see, that&rsquo;s realization.
That&rsquo;s even revelation. And it doesn&rsquo;t leave you where it
found you.

In that realization, the words &ldquo;you are the holy Son or the holy
Daughter of God&rdquo; begins to mean something to you as an experience.
And that makes it much easier to let go of what wasn&rsquo;t true about
you, that you were believing was true about you and which was binding
you to an illegitimate experience of limitation and suffering.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
No-one can hear Him &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
No-one can hear Him speak of this &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; of the Love of God for you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and long remain willing to linger here.
</div>

But you know what? I&rsquo;ll tell you something: Discover a fault in
yourself or discover a fault in your brother and sister and you&rsquo;re
liable to get stuck there in clearing out those god damn faults &hellip;
a soldier for God &hellip; and feeling a sense of purpose of engaging in
an act of bettering yourself and you will be willing to linger there
longer and longer and longer and longer, because you&rsquo;re not
engaging in the thing that will release you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
No-one can hear Him &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; speak of this &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; of God&rsquo;s Love for you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and long remain willing to linger here. For it IS your will to
be in Heaven, where you are complete and quiet, in such sure and loving
relationships that ANY limit is impossible.
</div>

This is the truth about you. This is your nature. This is the natural
environment of Being for you. But you will not experience it. You will
not discover it as long as you&rsquo;re engaged in attempting to better
yourself by being a purposeful divine agent for change.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Would you not exchange your little relationships for this? For the body
IS little and limited, and only those whom you would see WITHOUT the
limits the ego would impose on them can offer you the gift of freedom.
</div>

You see, it&rsquo;s time for everyone to begin looking at their Brother
and seeing the great rays. It&rsquo;s time to begin looking at each
other with an awareness that you, looking at them, are the holy Son or
Daughter of God, and those who you are looking at are the holy Sons and
Daughters of God, so that your curiosity is not about their flaws but
your curiosity is about seeing the effulgence of the great rays, of the
light of their Being more and more clearly, because it&rsquo;s your
nature and function to be seeing That. Why? Because when you&rsquo;re
seeing That you&rsquo;re seeing God in them. And your seeing them,
glorifies God. And the gift you give them heals them, if healing is
needed. And you get to keep the gift that you&rsquo;ve given to them.
And this is what is supposed to be happening in your days&mdash;this
week, last week, next week.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have no conception of the limits you have placed on your perception,
and no idea of all the loveliness that you could see.
</div>

You know, believe it or not, you&rsquo;re having a certain kind of
evening this evening &hellip; or you&rsquo;re having a certain kind of
day, depending on when you might be listening to the recording of this.
And you&rsquo;re taking it all for granted and you&rsquo;re believing
it&rsquo;s all Real. Now, right now &hellip; you might be having a sort
of negative overtone about this evening because the meeting started so
late and in your time zone it&rsquo;s really inconvenient. On the other
hand, there&rsquo;s something good about this evening, because you
really did want to hear the meeting, you really did want to hear what I
have to say and you are appreciating what I&rsquo;m having to say. And
something else that contributes to the feeling of the evening in a
positive way, might be that &hellip; well, at least tomorrow isn&rsquo;t
Monday, and so you can sleep in. And so that makes this evening and the
circumstances a little bit lighter. You see?

So you have all of these threads of concepts that get woven together.
And those are the things that are giving you an experience of this
evening. And those things have absolutely nothing to do with
what&rsquo;s happening this evening. They are things that are being
overlaid on the presence and sharing of Love that is going on in both
directions&mdash;from me to you, from you to me.

This is a gathering. This is a union. This is a manifestation of
infinite Oneness. It&rsquo;s, in a way, a rather elegant experience of
the Presence of God and what It all means. But you&rsquo;re not
experiencing It totally as what It is, because you&rsquo;re letting It
all be colored by conditioned thinking.

And what I&rsquo;m trying to point out is, that you, at any time, can
dare to ask yourself, &ldquo;Are any of the feelings I&rsquo;m having
about this moment Real? Do I really need to be feeling this way at this
moment?&rdquo; You know &hellip; is the fact that tomorrow is Sunday and
you can sleep in&mdash;so being up late tonight isn&rsquo;t as bad as it
could be&mdash;is that a reason for feeling good? Is the fact that
it&rsquo;s late and inconvenient a reason for feeling bad? Well it is,
if you have your attention be in the wrong place.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you would but let the Holy Spirit tell you of the Love of God for
you&hellip;
</div>

If you would be willing to be in this moment as though you are a holy
Son of God, in the middle of the Kingdom of Heaven, experiencing the
Movement of God, then whatever reasons you were using for feeling the
way you have been feeling about this moment are meaningless.
They&rsquo;re just not valid or valuable in any way because they are not
addressing the actuality, the reality of communion that is
occurring&mdash;you see&mdash;of communication.

So another way of uncovering what might need to be undone without going
on a witch hunt is to ask: &ldquo;If I&rsquo;m the holy Son of God, and
if all of this is the Kingdom of Heaven, then are any of the feelings
I&rsquo;m having legitimate?&rdquo; Asking that question and being truly
open to an unconditioned response will illuminate you in new ways or it
will illuminate first, the reasons you are withholding that experience
from yourself. And now you have been presented, like in the game of
pickup sticks, the next stick that can be removed without toppling the
whole pile, you see? You can pick up and remove the part of the pile
that doesn&rsquo;t need to be there any longer and is the next one to be
removed. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have no conception of the limits you have placed on your
perception&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; these threads of perceptions, these threads of conditioned
thinking.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have no conception of the limits you have placed on your perception,
and no idea of all the loveliness that you could see.
</div>

And so, there is the Course and there&rsquo;s me and there&rsquo;s your
Guides to tell you that there is loveliness that you could be seeing and
it is available for you to see and you&rsquo;re supposed to be seeing
it. And so you could say, &ldquo;Okay, I&rsquo;m going to desire to see
it.&rdquo; And if you desire it and you don&rsquo;t see any change, you
don&rsquo;t see anything different, you need to persist. And if you
persist and you don&rsquo;t see, reasons are going to pop up in your
mind that say why you&rsquo;re not seeing it. &ldquo;Well, it&rsquo;s
not there. This is all a bunch of bullshit &hellip;&rdquo; You see.
&ldquo;There is no God&rsquo;s plan of salvation. And if there is,
God&rsquo;s plan of salvation doesn&rsquo;t work.&rdquo; You see?

Now those are the things that you need to take a look at with the Holy
Spirit and have the Holy Spirit explain away. Because those are the
sticks that can be taken up next, they&rsquo;re the ones ready to be
released from. And they&rsquo;re the ones that are easy to get to,
because they&rsquo;re next.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have no conception of the limits you have placed on your perception,
and no idea of all the loveliness that you could see. But this you must
remember; the attraction of guilt OPPOSES the attraction of God.
</div>

Now, listen to this:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
His &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; God&rsquo;s.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
His attraction for you remains unlimited, but because your power, being
His, is as great as His&hellip;
</div>

You see? Negatively put, that&rsquo;s saying you&rsquo;re the holy Son
of God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; but because your power, being His, is as great as His, you can
turn away from love.
</div>

And I&rsquo;ll tell you one of the best ways to turn away from love is
to become a fault finder! &hellip;is to go on that internal witch hunt and
be most unkind to yourself, or go on a witch hunt on behalf of someone
else and be very unkind to your brother or sister.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
His &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; God&rsquo;s &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; attraction for you remains unlimited, but because your power,
being His, is as great as His, you can turn away from love. What you
invest in guilt you withdraw from God. And your sight grows weak and dim
and limited&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; depressed eventually and mean spirited &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; for you have attempted to separate the Father from the Son,
</div>

&hellip; you&rsquo;ve tried to separate yourself from your
Father&mdash;get your divorce, be an independent agent &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and limit their communication.
</div>

The Father&rsquo;s and the Son&rsquo;s, your communication with your
Source and therefore, your experience of your Birthright and who you
Are. And so you don&rsquo;t think you&rsquo;re the holy Son of God or
the holy Daughter of God. And you&rsquo;re quite convinced of it. And if
you start to challenge that by saying, &ldquo;Father, Holy Spirit, help
me to see that I&rsquo;m the holy Son of God, help me to see that
I&rsquo;m the holy Daughter of God.&rdquo; Wow, if you&rsquo;re
convinced that you aren&rsquo;t, your arguments will come up and you
will close your ears.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Seek not Atonement in FURTHER separation.
</div>

You just can&rsquo;t afford to argue against the truth about yourself.
Oh, you can, but it won&rsquo;t do any good. And Atonement won&rsquo;t
occur, and joy won&rsquo;t occur, and perfection won&rsquo;t occur, and
the capacity to love will remain hidden in you&mdash;present because
it&rsquo;s always there, but hidden &hellip; hidden.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And limit not your vision of God&rsquo;s Son to what INTERFERES with his
release, and what the Holy Spirit must UNDO to set him free.
</div>

Well &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And limit not your vision of God&rsquo;s Son to what INTERFERES &hellip;
</div>

Well, if you insist upon looking at your Brothers, who are the Sons of
God, as bodies, on planet Earth, in a physical universe, you&rsquo;re
limiting your vision of him to what interferes with his release, because
he&rsquo;s the holy Son of God and the great rays, the effulgent
illumination of Love Itself, the Presence of the Father, that is Love.
That is what is there for you to see. That is what it is your Birthright
to be seeing, and without increasing a sense of purpose in you
that&rsquo;s improperly based, it&rsquo;s your obligation, I&rsquo;ll
say. It&rsquo;s your obligation because it is exactly the truth. And
there&rsquo;s just no reason to be seeing anything else. It&rsquo;s your
nature to be seeing it. You will be seeing it.

You don&rsquo;t fulfill the obligation to see it by becoming forceful
and militant, but by letting your heart soften, by letting Love in, by
being willing to be the Presence of Love that wishes to see the Presence
of Love.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; limit not your vision of God&rsquo;s Son to what INTERFERES
with his release, and what the Holy Spirit must UNDO to set him free.
</div>

You see, you want to be knowing what the truth is so that you can
participate in the undoing of what will set your Brother free.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For his belief in limits HAS imprisoned him.
</div>

Just as your belief in limits has imprisoned you. And just as my being
with you in a Real way, not in a process of uncovering your faults, but
uncovering what the truth is about you&mdash;those limits that have
imprisoned you can be released by you because you realize there is
another way to look at things and you choose to look at the more
intelligent way.

Now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When the body &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in other words, when that which is not seen as the great rays,
the effulgence of the Living Light of Love &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When the body ceases to attract you, and when you place no value on it
as a means for getting ANYTHING&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you see, like accomplishing a goal, like bettering yourself,
like making others better themselves, you see.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When the body ceases to attract you, and when you place no value on it
as a means for getting ANYTHING, then there will be no interference in
communication, and your thoughts will be as free as God&rsquo;s. As you
let the Holy Spirit &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that which is nothing more than your right Mind &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; teach you how to use the body ONLY for purposes of
communication, and renounce its use for separation and attack which the
ego sees in it, you will learn you have no need of a body at all.
</div>

You see, it didn&rsquo;t say: You&rsquo;ll find that you have no body at
all. You&rsquo;ll find you&rsquo;ll have no need for a body.

Um-m, you know, the militant Christian soldier, you know, not only has a
body which is used to express his militancy, he put a suit of armor on
to make that body even more impregnable, even more damaging, even more
enduring in its act of aggression against the sinner, the enemy, the one
in whom the one wearing the suit of armor could see no worth, no love,
no reason to be loving. You see?

The body is very important if you&rsquo;re going to be a militant
soldier. And that doesn&rsquo;t mean a body of great rays, a body of
effulgent Light that is Living Love that is transforming. No it
doesn&rsquo;t mean that.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As you let the Holy Spirit teach you how to use the body ONLY for
purposes of communication, and renounce its use for separation and
attack which the ego sees in it, you will learn you have no need of a
body at all.
</div>

Because you&rsquo;ll be through with accomplishing things with it. You
will accomplish things with your Vision, with your recognition of the
great rays, with the recognition of the holiness of your Brothers and
Sisters and with your insistence upon disclosing the truth in ways that
inspire the acceptance of truth, because the one it&rsquo;s being shared
with does not feel threatened by militant action.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In the holy instant there ARE no bodies, and you experience only the
attraction of God.
</div>

And I&rsquo;ll be very clear here: There are no bodies as paraphernalia
of war. But there are still bodies, which aren&rsquo;t where your
attention is, because your attention is with the desire to be the
Presence of Love and see the Presence of Love. In other words, your
desire and focus of attention is on the Movement of God that happens to
look like Creation, but the look of the Movement of God is not more
important to you than the Movement Itself, which is the Movement of
Mind&mdash;the infinite Mind that God Is and which you are inseparable
from. And without your holding yourself apart any longer from God, you
become co-Creators with God. And you are experiencing Purpose. And
Purpose has nothing to do with bettering yourself. Purpose has to do
with being the presence of Peace and Joy that has no goals of its
own&mdash;that Joys in and expresses and acknowledges Creation in Its
totality with an undistorted experience of what It Is.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In the holy instant there ARE no bodies, and you experience only the
attraction of God. Accepting it as undivided you join Him wholly, in an
instant. The reality of this relationship becomes the only truth that
you could ever WANT. All truth IS here.
</div>

All truth is in the holy instant, in which you abandon&mdash;truly
abandon&mdash;your independence. And so again, the way you abandon your
independence is by wanting to know the truth, by wanting to experience
God&rsquo;s Love for you and letting that desire bring up whatever needs
to be cleared out in you, by your willingness to let the Holy Spirit
declare even more fully to you what the truth is so that the resistances
and reluctances that you have can be willingly and gladly and joyfully
released. That&rsquo;s the process.

That&rsquo;s the good news.

I love you. I love you all. And I look forward to being with you next
time.

[^1]: T15.8 The Holy Instant and Real Relationships

