---
title: Oct 24, 2009
ref: "T15.9 The Time of Christ"
alink: "/acim/text/15/chap1509/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

We&rsquo;ve been talking at some length about the holy instant.
We&rsquo;ve talked about the fact that it is the place in which
God&rsquo;s laws prevail. The word, &ldquo;prevail&rdquo; is a
significant word. The holy instant is the place where God&rsquo;s laws
prevail. No other laws prevail. The holy instant is in the little gap
between the past and the future. The past and the future are not an
unbroken line, there is a break in the little gap, in the now is the
holy instant.

How many of you have been willing to engage in the holy instant? And
more importantly, I have a question for everyone tonight. What will it
take, or what does it take to warrant involving yourself in the holy
instant?

You all say you&rsquo;d like to have a different experience from the one
you&rsquo;re having. You would like an improved experience. You even
talk about experiencing Awakening&mdash;enlightenment&mdash;as though
it&rsquo;s preferable to what you&rsquo;re experiencing. You want to
have a new experience, but you can&rsquo;t have a new experience with
all of the same goals you have been carrying with you. If you want to
have a different experience, you&rsquo;re going to have to have
different goals, because your goals determine your experience.
It&rsquo;s that simple.

&ldquo;Oh-h &hellip; you mean I&rsquo;m going to have to give up my
goals? I&rsquo;m going to have to give up all the wonderful, dirty,
sneaky, techniques I have learned in the orphanage in order to better
myself and become the top dog and even help others become closer to top
dogs without taking my place so that I get their allegiance? I&rsquo;m
going to have to abandon these goals in order to have a different
experience? Hey &hellip; No! Here&rsquo;s the scoop: I want to engage in
the holy instant for the purpose of improving my lot in the orphanage. I
want to engage in the holy instant to get my way more quickly, more
efficiently, with less complaints from everyone else &hellip;&rdquo;

What will it take for you to engage in the holy instant where the laws
of God prevail?

You know, how many of you over thirty years old, over fifty years old
even, are trying to recapture your childhood&mdash;a lost childhood? How
many of you had such a horrible experience as a child or such a
demanding one because of poverty and illness, and so on, that you missed
childhood? And right now you are engaged in doing all the things you
missed out on, even though when you&rsquo;re fifty years old it
doesn&rsquo;t really fit with the fulfillments of you now.

How many of you are engaged in &ldquo;getting even?&rdquo; How many of
you have been hurt and you&rsquo;re pissed off and you are enjoying the
opportunity to give back what was dished out to you? How many of you are
engaged in these kinds of activities that cause you to say,
&ldquo;I&rsquo;m not going to engage in the holy instant yet, I need to
recapture my childhood. I have been looking forward to going to
Disneyland for my whole life and finally, I&rsquo;m going to get to go
and I&rsquo;m not going to give that up for the holy instant!&rdquo;

How many of you have what you think are excellent reasons for delaying?

And so I ask again, &ldquo;What would it take, or what will it take to
cause you to engage in the holy instant?&rdquo; It&rsquo;s a simple
question with a profound answer. Profound because the correct answer
will change your existence. And it&rsquo;s what the holy instant is
about and it&rsquo;s the reason we&rsquo;ve been talking about it for so
many weeks.

&ldquo;Oh, I&rsquo;ve been waiting my whole life to meet Mr.
Right&rdquo; or &ldquo;I&rsquo;ve been waiting my whole life to meet my
soul-mate. My desire to have a truly meaningful relationship is huge, is
overriding in my experience, and I know Mr. Right is out there and I
know that my soul-mate is out there. And I&rsquo;m not going to abandon
the quest until I find her, or until I find him.&rdquo;

Has it ever occurred to you that in the Kingdom of Heaven, in your right
Mind, your goals might not involve any of the things I&rsquo;ve just
described? Oh, well then, what is it going to take in order for you to
engage in the holy instant? If doing it is going to constitute the loss
of all of these goals and activities, what kind of a payoff are you
going to have to get before you engage in the holy instant? What is it
going to take?

So far, since you haven&rsquo;t Woken up, you haven&rsquo;t found what
it will take.

Even though you&rsquo;ve been inspired by the things I have shared,
especially over the last weeks when we&rsquo;ve been talking about the
holy instant, you still haven&rsquo;t found what it will take to engage
truly, fully, wholly, in the holy instant.

So what will it take?

This next section is called:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*The Time of Christ*

It IS in your power, in TIME, to delay the perfect union of the Father
and the Son. For in this world, the attraction of guilt DOES stand
between them.[^1]
</div>

Which means it stands between you and your Father &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the attraction of guilt &hellip;
</div>

Of course, you don&rsquo;t like to think about yourself being guilty,
but you don&rsquo;t mind thinking about your fellowman as being guilty
and making him pay for his guilt, or getting even for him with it
because of his guilt, or neglecting to forfeit and abandon the
expression of anger that your brother so clearly deserves.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It IS in your power, in TIME&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; not eternity, but &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
in TIME, to delay the perfect union of the Father and the Son. For in
this world, the attraction of guilt DOES stand between them.
</div>

It keeps all of you pre-occupied. Now&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Neither time nor season means anything in eternity. But here, it is the
Holy Spirit&rsquo;s function to use them both, though not as the ego
uses them.
</div>

In other words, the Holy Spirit can use those things which find no real
place in eternity to help you Wake up. And so, the Holy Spirit uses time
and the Holy Spirit uses seasons, and the Holy Spirit uses seasonings to
make delicious food many times to cause you to have an enlightening
experience or an occasion for an &ldquo;Ah-ha&rdquo; to occur. The Holy
Spirit can turn anything in your experience to your advantage whether
those things have any place in the eternal scheme of things or not. And
the Holy Spirit does.

Now, we could say, continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is [almost] the season &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; but the actual words are:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is the season when you would celebrate my birth into the world.
</div>

At the time that I was dictating this to Helen, it was that season,
which was the reason for discussing the fact that the Holy Spirit can
use time and season, you see? So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is the season when you would celebrate my birth into the world. Yet
you know not how to do it.
</div>

Be willing to live with that statement.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet you know not how to do it.
</div>

Learning to use the holy instant is part of how to do it, as
you&rsquo;ll find out.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Let the Holy Spirit teach you&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; how to do it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Let the Holy Spirit teach you, and let me celebrate YOUR birth through
Him. The only gift I can accept of you is the gift I GAVE to you.
Release ME as I will YOUR release. The time of Christ we celebrate
TOGETHER, for it has no meaning if we are apart.
</div>

This is very literal.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The time of Christ we celebrate TOGETHER, for it has no meaning if we
are apart.
</div>

If you see me as having been born two thousand years ago and having
lived for thirty-three years and then left, no longer available to walk
with you and chat with you as I did with my disciples, and you gather
around Christmas trees and in churches and sing Christmas carols and
praises of God relative to my coming and my leaving, all without a sense
of my actual presence that you would have if we were walking and
chatting together, then it has no meaning because we are apart. And
everything you&rsquo;re doing is in remembrance of an event you&rsquo;ve
heard about but not an actual experience you&rsquo;ve had.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The time of Christ we celebrate TOGETHER, for it has no meaning if we
are apart.
</div>

Wow &hellip; so that&rsquo;s why you know not how to do it, because
you&rsquo;re doing it without being with me. You&rsquo;re doing it
without taking the steps that allow for the joining to occur.
You&rsquo;re doing it without abandoning your orphanhood and the very
firm beliefs you have about being alone and on your own and probably not
the effect of an eternal God at all.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The holy instant is truly the time of Christ.
</div>

Not two thousand years ago. The time &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The holy instant is truly the time of Christ. For in this liberating
instant no guilt is laid upon the Son of God, and his unlimited power is
thus restored to him.
</div>

Very key point. Guilt takes your unlimited power away from you. Guilt
obscures it from you. Guilt causes you to believe with fervor and
commitment, nothing but weakness. But in the holy instant &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; no guilt is laid upon the Son of God, and his unlimited power
is thus restored to him.
</div>

That is how you celebrate the season, truly causing the season to
actually have Meaning because it gives entrance into the world to the
Christ &hellip; to me through you, thus illuminating the Christ of you
in the world. That means everything &ldquo;in the world&rdquo; has
changed.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What other gift &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; than unlimited power &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; can you offer me, when only this I will to offer YOU?
</div>

You see? That was my reason for being present. That is still my reason
for being with you. I will for you to know who you Are. Because I know
it&rsquo;s impossible for you not to know who you Are. It is impossible
for you to actually have forgotten. It is impossible for you to actually
be insane. And I&rsquo;m here to speak to you, to talk to you, to be
with you, to chat with you in this fashion and we&rsquo;ll say, within
your own mind, so that you know you&rsquo;re not alone. And that because
of Who is speaking to you, you may realize that you&rsquo;re worthy of
being spoken to by Him and in that realization it can begin to dawn upon
you that you are truly my Brothers or Sisters, that we both have the
same Inheritance. We both have the same Birthright.

Now I&rsquo;m going to back up a moment because the fact is that you all
know you need miracles. You all know that there are circumstances in
your lives that deserve to be changed for the better no matter what
seems to have brought the situations into existence. You see. No matter
what causes there seem to have been, they cannot legitimately obscure
the Presence of God Being everything there. And they cannot have any
power to cause God to be invisible and lose His
Presence&mdash;impossible.

If you want to see transformation, then you&rsquo;ve got to be willing
to be in the instant with different goals, with different motives than
the ones you normally have. And when you abandon yourself into the holy
instant, having left the past behind, and therefore carrying forward no
grievances and abandoning any thoughts of the future and fear that might
be associated with it, you are in a place of innocence and you are in a
place where you have absolutely no control. And when you allow yourself
to be there humbly and with faith that there is a God, and you wish to
know of God what the truth is or you wish of God for Him to reveal to
you the truth, and you bring no force into it, just watch your
experience transform. Just watch what you couldn&rsquo;t possibly have
brought into existence or what you couldn&rsquo;t possibly have caused
to happen, happen or appear.

But again, I have to ask, &ldquo;What will it take? What is needed in
order for you to engage in the holy instant?&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What other gift can you offer me, when only this I will to offer YOU?
And to see me is to see me in everyone, and offer everyone the gift you
offer me.
</div>

Oh boy &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And to see me is to see me in everyone&hellip;
</div>

So, you&rsquo;re in a line in the grocery store and somebody behind you
has gotten pissed off with you&mdash;says you&rsquo;re taking too long
or with so many groceries why didn&rsquo;t you get in another line or
whatever&mdash;and is making a fool of himself and a scene and
embarrassing you &hellip; Oh-h boy &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And to see me is to see me in everyone&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; everyone right at that instant! What is it going to take for
you to be willing to enter into the holy instant when you&rsquo;re
embarrassed, you know? What is it going to take to cause you to abandon
your embarrassment, to disregard how you think the event is making you
look to everyone else? That seems very important, doesn&rsquo;t it. That
seems more important than your sanity or a miracle, right? If
you&rsquo;re not careful, it does &hellip; and it sucks you right in and
you make commitment to that.

And so the question is, &ldquo;What will it take for you to enter into
the holy instant, to avail yourself of the holy instant in which
God&rsquo;s laws prevail and not the bad behavior of some fellow, and
not the misunderstanding of everyone else who&rsquo;s observing?&rdquo;
You see, that isn&rsquo;t what prevails in the holy instant. But what
will it take for you to engage in or indulge in the holy instant right
on the spot there?

See, this is where it counts, this is where it matters, this is where
you get off the wheel of history and you just don&rsquo;t repeat the old
habits&mdash;habits you may have made up for yourself or habits which
you may have copied from your parents or your friends or your relatives.
You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I am as incapable of receiving sacrifice as God is, and every sacrifice
you ask of yourself you ask of me.
</div>

Oh yeah, you know, you do penance by sacrificing. Or you are sure that
because you&rsquo;re so awful&mdash;you&rsquo;re such a bad
orphan&mdash;that you need to engage in some obedience&rsquo;s which
constitute giving up something for a period of time.

But you know what? When you engage in sacrifice, especially for pious
reasons, for spiritual reasons, you are withholding your Self, you are
unwilling to stand in receipt of the Father&rsquo;s Love &hellip;
&ldquo;Behold it is the Father&rsquo;s good pleasure to give you the
Kingdom,&rdquo; not withhold it from you. And it&rsquo;s not the
Father&rsquo;s good pleasure for you to say, &ldquo;I will not receive
it because I have been a bad boy and I&rsquo;m going to engage in
sacrifice for awhile and not receive the Gift.&rdquo; And then you come
to me and you pray to me or you say you want to enter into the holy
instant, but you enter into the holy instant as this poor orphan who is
dutifully sacrificing in one way or another.

So you&rsquo;re not giving your whole Self to me, you&rsquo;re not
bringing yourself fully into the relationship with me, and obviously you
cannot be bringing all of yourself as you truly Are into any of the
relationships you&rsquo;re in with your fellowman.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I am as incapable of receiving sacrifice as God is&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; so don&rsquo;t waste your time indulging in it &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and every sacrifice you ask of yourself you ask of me.
</div>

But [chuckling] I&rsquo;m not going to agree and I&rsquo;m not going to
join you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Learn NOW that sacrifice of any kind is nothing but a limitation imposed
on giving. And by this limitation you have limited acceptance of the
gift I offer YOU.
</div>

The gift I offer you is the acknowledgement&mdash;the full true
acknowledgement&mdash;of what you divinely Are, of what you truly Are.
And I know It with God&rsquo;s Mind. And I want you to know It about
your Self with God&rsquo;s Mind. Because in giving you the Kingdom, God
has not withheld His Mind from you and His perspective is your
Birthright to be experiencing. That&rsquo;s the gift I offer you.
That&rsquo;s the gift you need to offer back to me.

It&rsquo;s like saying, &ldquo;Hey, Brother.&rdquo; And you say,
&ldquo;Hey, Brother.&rdquo; And we acknowledge each other knowing who we
Are and Who the other Is, you see?

If this doesn&rsquo;t happen in your exchanges with your brother who you
can see, or your sister or your class mate or your work buddy, you know,
if you don&rsquo;t do this with them, if you can&rsquo;t do this with
them, you&rsquo;re missing out and you&rsquo;re disallowing for a
different kind of experience&mdash;a healed experience, a miraculous
experience&mdash;one in which things reconfigure in a manner that you
could only describe as glorifying God &hellip; glorifying good.

And yet these things are happening &hellip; these things are happening.
These things happened last week &hellip; the week before &hellip; they
will happen next week, because some of you will take the
opportunity&mdash;usually out of a severe feeling of incapacity in the
face of great need&mdash;to enter into the holy instant and join with
the Father and ask for help, and give up control.

But these experiences need to be more frequent, so that they can begin
to register with you as being more normal than what you&rsquo;ve been
experiencing, so that you, with less resistance, embrace them. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
We who are one CANNOT give separately.
</div>

How can that which is one give separately? You and I are Brothers and
Sisters. We are kin. When we truly give, we can&rsquo;t give alone. We
can&rsquo;t think that we&rsquo;re indulging in a private act that no
one else is experiencing, except perhaps the individual toward whom that
act is being extended. That isn&rsquo;t the way it works.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
We who are one CANNOT give separately. When you are willing to accept
OUR relationship &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; yours and mine. When Paul is willing to accept our
relationship, his and mine as real. And because I&rsquo;m your Brother,
every single one of you has this relationship with me.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you are willing to accept OUR relationship as real, guilt will hold
NO attraction for you.
</div>

Well, there&rsquo;s a goal for you that you haven&rsquo;t been engaging
in &hellip; to accept our relationship as real &hellip; I mean, really,
Real&mdash;as real as a relationship you think you could have with Paul
because he&rsquo;s here where you are and you think I am somewhere else.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you are willing to accept OUR relationship as real, guilt will hold
NO attraction for you.
</div>

And so I ask, what will it take to let that be a goal instead of getting
even, or instead of protecting yourself or any of the other things you
do? How about having that for a goal, and what would it take to do it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For in our union you will accept ALL of our brothers. The gift of union
is the only gift that I was born to give. Give it to me, that YOU may
have it.
</div>

You see, I&rsquo;m Real and I gave the gift. And the gift was given to
all Brothers, all Sisters, not just my disciples and not just those who
were on your planet at that time, but to all of the Brotherhood.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The gift of union is the only gift that I was born to give. Give it to
me, that YOU may have it.
</div>

Give to me your recognition that I am Real and that I am your Brother.
And then you&rsquo;ll know who you Are&mdash;not an orphan&mdash;A holy
Son of God, a holy Daughter of God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Give it to me, that YOU may have it.
</div>

Acknowledge that I&rsquo;m Real and I&rsquo;m your Brother, and then
you&rsquo;ll know you&rsquo;re my Brother and you&rsquo;ll know who you
Are and you will have It.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The time of Christ is the time appointed for the gift of freedom,
offered to everyone.

[Repeats] &hellip; offered to everyone.
</div>

Why, what, today, tonight, just now? No, it was the gift that was given
two thousand years ago. It was the meaning of what happened. And it has
forever since been the meaning.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The time of Christ is the time appointed for the gift of freedom,
offered to everyone.
</div>

Now, the time of Christ is also the holy instant. So the holy instant
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is the time appointed for the gift of freedom, offered to
everyone.
</div>

It is the point in which, where God&rsquo;s laws prevail, you experience
your freedom and you behave as though you&rsquo;re free and are a new
presence in the world. And therefore, the gift of freedom is being made,
is being given in the world like it hasn&rsquo;t been before. You see?
And the Christ is present. And so the season&mdash;the meaning of the
season&mdash;is embodied, manifest.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And by YOUR acceptance of it, you have OFFERED it to everyone.
</div>

You know what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It IS in your power to make this season holy, for it is in your power to
make the time of Christ be NOW.
</div>

Not off in the future, you see. That&rsquo;s the way to &ldquo;celebrate
the Season,&rdquo; by making the time of Christ be NOW. And by making
the time of Christ be now by joining with me, letting me, through the
Holy Spirit, reveal your right Mind to you and your true Identity to
you, so that you become in expression the Christ that you Are, rather
than a pretence of an orphan that you aren&rsquo;t. You see?

Now, I&rsquo;ve been asking, &ldquo;What will it take?&rdquo; And you
may have been thinking about this as I&rsquo;ve been speaking. And you
might have come to the conclusion that it&rsquo;s going to take a
catastrophe, or that it&rsquo;s going to take some world shaking event,
or it&rsquo;s going to take something significant enough to grab your
attention&mdash;to, in so many words, force you to do it.

Well, it&rsquo;s simpler than that. The answer is, that what it&rsquo;s
going to take for you to engage in the holy instant is Love.

You might say, &ldquo;Wow, where is that going to come from?&rdquo; And
it&rsquo;s a good question. It&rsquo;s a good question for you to be
asking with all seriousness, with all intent to have the answer. And
it&rsquo;s an answer, for lack of better words, that you&rsquo;re going
to have to come up with. It&rsquo;s not an answer I&rsquo;m going to
give you. And it&rsquo;s not an answer that anyone else is going to give
you.

Where is the willingness to Love going to come from, out of the blue,
while you&rsquo;re in the checkout stand at the grocery store, or when
somebody else has gotten upset with you, or you feel justified with
being upset with someone else? It&rsquo;s going to come from somewhere.
And it just might have something to do with, um-m &hellip; dare I say,
there being an unreasonable willingness to Love right then, right there.
I&rsquo;m not going to say anything more than that.

The question &hellip; the significant question is, &ldquo;What&rsquo;s
it going to take for you to engage in the holy instant?&rdquo; And the
answer is, &ldquo;What it&rsquo;s going to take is Love.&rdquo;

And you know what? I&rsquo;m going to be blatantly clear with you, each
one of you has it in you. I know that from time to time you&rsquo;ve
taken my counsel and you&rsquo;ve said, &ldquo;I wish to see the
evidence of Love,&rdquo; and you&rsquo;ve also said, &ldquo;I wish to be
the evidence of Love.&rdquo; What&rsquo;s it going to take for you to go
ahead and be the evidence of Love?

And please keep in mind, there&rsquo;s only going to be one answer. And
the answer is going to be the way to do it. It&rsquo;s not going to be,
&ldquo;Well, you don&rsquo;t really have the capacity to do it.&rdquo;
The answer won&rsquo;t be, &ldquo;Well, you&rsquo;re going to have to
refine your soul for a few more lifetimes before you can do it.&rdquo;
No. The answer won&rsquo;t be the ways in which it can&rsquo;t happen.
It&rsquo;s already in you. And the answer will be how it can &hellip;
the answer will be what spontaneously slips into the doing of it.

Now, letting this question be foremost in your mind and abiding with it
with attentiveness to the answer is a goal that you haven&rsquo;t
ordinarily engaged in, in your life. It&rsquo;s a different kind of
goal. And it is the different kind of goal that is more typical of what
you divinely Are. And it&rsquo;s a goal for you to be willing to embrace
with gratitude and commitment. And it&rsquo;s a question to be asked in
the grocery line. And it&rsquo;s a question to be asked in every single
encounter you have with your Brother.

Now the question isn&rsquo;t, &ldquo;What will it take,&rdquo; because
now you know that it&rsquo;ll take Love. The question is, &ldquo;Where
will the Love come from? What will cause It to slip into expression so
that the embodiment of the Christ happens in the grocery store?
Christmas happens while you&rsquo;re standing in front of the clerk as
she tallies up your groceries, whether it&rsquo;s June or December.

Don&rsquo;t think too much about this. When you&rsquo;re in the grocery
store line and something happens, ask, &ldquo;Where&rsquo;s the Love
going to come from that will allow me to enter into the holy instant
right now?&rdquo; Ask the question as though you expect an answer right
there in that grocery line&mdash;not after you&rsquo;ve loaded your
groceries in the car and gotten half way home&mdash;because I&rsquo;m
there and the Holy Spirit is there and the will of God is there for you
to find that Love and let it out&mdash;embody It!

We will end there tonight. And although I am always with you and have
been, and the Holy Spirit, of course, is inseparable from you and the
Father is inseparable from you, I want you to know that during this
coming week, we are specifically engaged in consciously being with you
in support of the holy instants that await you at any given moment. You
have Great support &hellip; You have Great support.

Okay.

[^1]: T15.9 The Time of Christ

