---
title: Nov 28, 2009
ref: "T15.10 The End of Sacrifice"
alink: "/acim/text/15/chap1510/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

Well, after almost thirteen months we&rsquo;re coming to the end of the
chapter entitled, The Purpose of Time. And during this thirteen months,
we&rsquo;ve been mostly talking about the holy instant, finding out what
significance it has. And it&rsquo;s great significance is, that it is
the threshold of Awakening. It&rsquo;s that simple.

It is the moment in which, for whatever reason you might come up with,
you&rsquo;re willing to dare to abandon the concept that you&rsquo;re an
independent authorizer&mdash;an independent agent. And you&rsquo;re
willing to join with whatever it might be that is the Cause of it all
&hellip; that is the Cause of you.

It is the point at which you say, &ldquo;Our Father, Who Art In Heaven,
Hallowed Be Thy Name, Thy Kingdom Come, Thy Will be Done on Earth as it
is in Heaven.&rdquo;[^1] You see, the uniting of what have been believed
to be two separate un-unitable things&mdash;Heaven and Earth. The
willingness to find God in each and every thing including yourself, and
the willingness to let That which was and is Cause to all, be That which
you yield to, That which you follow, That which you let yourself be the
offspring of.

Paul is almost sorry to see this chapter pass and well might all of you.
Its meaning, though, had better be kept in the foreground. It&rsquo;s
like getting directions to your Good and then tucking them away while
you move on and consider other things. Don&rsquo;t. As you consider
other things, do them in the context of the holy instant. Do them in the
context of being joined. Do them in the context of an actual practice
you engage in, rather than think about. Consider them with your Guide.
Consider them with the Holy Spirit&mdash;that which is nothing more than
your right Mind.

Don&rsquo;t do anything alone ever again!

And if you find yourself lazy or if you find yourself inclined not to
apply yourself that diligently and you end up doing a lot of things all
by yourself again, catch yourself and stop! And use some
self-discipline.

You know what? All I&rsquo;m saying is, look where your Answer is.
Don&rsquo;t look where your answer is not. Give your attention where the
truth is to be seen because truth is more important to you than your
illusions.

Now, continuing in the book:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As long as you perceive the body as your reality, so long will you
perceive yourself as lonely and deprived. And so long will you also
perceive yourself as a victim of sacrifice, justified in sacrificing
others.[^2]
</div>

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As long as you perceive the body as your reality&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; it seems to be a pretty straight-forward thing but it implies
something. Now for those who do perceive the body as their reality, in
other words, &ldquo;Oh-h this is me, [patting himself] I am this thing,
this shape, this physique that says, &lsquo;I&rsquo;m a male or
I&rsquo;m a female with two arms and two legs, etc.,&rsquo;&rdquo; most
everyone does see themselves that way and its inconceivable to think
that maybe there&rsquo;s another way to experience yourself than as a
form among forms.

Now I&rsquo;m just pointing this out because there is another way to
experience it. And I&rsquo;m telling you and someone needs to tell you,
so that you might become curious to experience it.

On the other hand, many of you are students of what you would call,
&ldquo;metaphysics,&rdquo; and you have come to value your mind and you
have come, through your studies, to an understanding that it is mind in
which all experience of form is occurring. So, rather than body being
the ground of your being, mind is the ground of your being. And if you
have been raised in a metaphysical environment your whole life where you
may never have actually identified yourself with body, it might seem
inconceivable to you that there are others walking around on your planet
who literally do just see themselves as just another form in the chain
of evolution along with fish and cattle and insects and so on.

I mention this because whichever vantage point you might be looking
from, if you&rsquo;re unaware that there are others having different
experiences, you can end up being very unkind and thoughtless and find
yourself ridiculing something that you didn&rsquo;t understand was going
on.

Now the fact is, that one of the most effective means of having both
experiences is to meditate or not meditate. The simple fact is that for
those who are identifying with their body, who think they are their
body, their body is them, they can, through meditation, arrive at an
experience of being conscious&mdash;without thoughts&mdash;of being
aware of everything without identifying with the things, but rather the
frame of reference in which he or she is experiencing all of those
things. This place of experience is a place of perfect peace, whereas
the place of identifying with the body is inevitably and always to some
degree, an experience of fear and guilt.

Everyone is able to have this experience, which is an inner experience.
Because you can, it makes it easier for you to understand what
we&rsquo;ve been talking about with reference to making a
shift&mdash;the Journey without Distance that we discussed last
time&mdash;where there is a shift of attention from illusion to truth,
or a shift of attention from problem to solution, a shift of attention
from that which generates disease to that which heals disease, a shift
of attention that occurs in one place&mdash;the mind.

Waking Up is not complicated. And it is only as difficult as you make it
by being reluctant to bring your attention with consistency to the holy
instant, to that place where you shut up and you ask the Holy Spirit or
the Father or me to help you experience the truth, another way of
saying, to help you Know the truth not as an intellectual exercise, but
as an experience of &ldquo;What is.&rdquo; You see?

Now, something that will also help in the understanding of what
we&rsquo;re reading tonight, is the image I have been providing of your
having said, &ldquo;Father, I want a divorce, Father I want to stand in
my own right.&rdquo; And that when you imagined that such a decree was
made and given you, you became in effect, an orphan, living your life in
an orphanage among others who see themselves as orphans.

Now this is very identical with identifying as a body and it&rsquo;s
important to understand it.

Now, as long as you perceive the body as your reality, so long will you
perceive yourself as lonely and deprived. As long as you perceive
yourself as an orphan and insist upon it, so long will you perceive
yourself as lonely and deprived. Your Birthright will be gone. And you
will be alone because you chose to be independent not exactly realizing
that independence meant isolation. Independence meant isolation and
aloneness. You see? But nevertheless, that was what you found yourself
faced with.

So, as long as you perceive yourself as an orphan, you will perceive
yourself as lonely and deprived.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And so long will you also perceive yourself as a victim of sacrifice,
justified in sacrificing others.
</div>

You see? The minute you abandon embrace, the moment you abandon the
Father, you abandon that which gives you Identity. You abandon that
which gives you truth&mdash;gives truth to your Being. And that&rsquo;s
the sacrifice. You see?

You think you&rsquo;re sacrificing because you&rsquo;re doing a kindness
for the guy down the hall in the orphanage. You see? Or you think
you&rsquo;re sacrificing because you&rsquo;ve decided to do some good
things instead of the things you&rsquo;ve really wanted to do, to help
the staff in the orphanage, to make some &ldquo;brownie points.&rdquo;
You see? You think the sacrifice is going on between you and others in
the orphanage not realizing that the sacrifice occurred and continues to
occur as long as you&rsquo;re saying, &ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;d rather
see it my way,&rdquo; as long as you haven&rsquo;t abandoned your
so-called imagined right to define what everything is. You see?

That&rsquo;s where the sacrifice occurs. Get this straight, else you
will continue to think that you&rsquo;re sacrificing for others and you
will be angry because of the sacrifice or you will be jealous because
someone else has something you&rsquo;ve sacrificed. You see?

The absolute essential thing is for you to be willing to abandon the
tension that you have created in your mind between yourself and everyone
else you&rsquo;re sacrificing for, or between you and everyone else who
isn&rsquo;t sacrificing enough for you. That just keeps you
bound&mdash;tied up, kept, incarcerated&mdash;in the orphanage. And
that&rsquo;s not where the sacrifice is occurring.

The sacrifice is occurring in your continued act&mdash;and I mean act as
in a play, as an actor&mdash;your continued act of independence. The
holy instant literally is when you decide to abandon the act of
independence if only for an instant.

You see, it&rsquo;s in the absence of the act of independence that you,
in your right Mind, can have an experience of sanity. And that is why
the holy instant is so important. It&rsquo;s the way out of the dream.
It&rsquo;s the way out of suffering.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For who could thrust Heaven and its Creator aside WITHOUT a sense of
sacrifice and loss?
</div>

Now, it isn&rsquo;t just that you thrust something called,
&ldquo;Heaven&rdquo; out, and it isn&rsquo;t that you just thrust your
Creator out, like putting them in exile for awhile, while you play
around with other things. In doing those things, you have become insane.
You have become confused with commitment. You have become confused and
you are committed to it. You see?

So&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; who could thrust Heaven and its Creator aside WITHOUT a sense
of sacrifice and loss?
</div>

No one. [chuckle] Because in so doing, you became insane or you become
insane and that&rsquo;s an unnatural experience which is best described
as sacrifice and loss &hellip; severe loss &hellip; depressing loss
&hellip; hurting loss &hellip; debilitating loss&hellip; sacrifice that
can make you feel like killing yourself. You see?

&ldquo;Oh-h&hellip; I&rsquo;m going to get out of the orphanage &hellip;
I&rsquo;m going to put a bullet through my head and get out of the
orphanage!&rdquo;

Well, hey everybody! The way you get out of the orphanage is abandoning
being an orphan. In many ways, all of you are too caught up in the
dynamics of the world, you might say, the dynamics of the orphanage, the
dynamics of the orphan experience.

And as we&rsquo;ve said before, the tendency is to want to learn about
spirit and about truth and about God to improve the orphan experience.
But truth has another purpose, the Holy Spirit has another purpose and
that is to restore you to your sanity in which there is no orphanage in
which to become more successful, or to rise to the top, etc.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; who could thrust Heaven and its Creator aside WITHOUT a sense
of sacrifice and loss? And who can suffer sacrifice and loss without
attempting to RESTORE himself?
</div>

Easy to understand&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet how could you accomplish this yourselves&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning, as the orphan you think you are &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; when the basis of your attempts is the belief in the REALITY
of the deprivation?
</div>

In other words, when the basis of your attempts to restore yourself from
the vantage point or standpoint of being an orphan, is the belief that
you really are an orphan!

As long as you&rsquo;ve forgotten your Birthright, as long as you have
forgotten your holiness, you&rsquo;re unholy miserable human self will
try to improve itself and restore itself but only as a miserable human
doing it. And the only way it can be done is to abandon the belief that
you are an independent orphan and let your Birthright as the Son or
Daughter of God be restored to you because you invite it in.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; who can suffer sacrifice and loss without attempting to
RESTORE himself?
</div>

You mean, get back your balance, get back some joy that you know you
should be experiencing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet how could you accomplish this yourselves, when the basis of your
attempts is the belief in the REALITY of the deprivation&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the reality of the orphanage, the reality of your orphanhood?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For deprivation breeds attack&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; deprivation breeds jealousy. Deprivation breeds anger.
Deprivation breeds self-righteousness as an attempt to better yourself
or as an attempt to be better than someone else, with mean-spirited
actions, with mean-spirited actions engaged in to make yourself better
than someone else and to demonstrate well, the lesser status of someone
else.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For deprivation breeds attack, being the belief that attack IS
justified.
</div>

You see? You say, &ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;d rather see things my way
&hellip; I&rsquo;m going to see things my way,&rdquo; click, [snaps
fingers] and now you&rsquo;re seeing things your way and it&rsquo;s an
uncomfortable experience. And the uncomfortable experience makes you
feel bad. It makes you feel upset. And so now the way in which you deal
with your life and your world and your fellowman all comes out of anger.
It all comes out of fear. It all comes out of guilt.

Since you&rsquo;re suffering, you&rsquo;ve got to make somebody
responsible. After all, it can&rsquo;t be you. You&rsquo;ve been
watching yourself in your independent state and you think you&rsquo;ve
been pretty good. But you haven&rsquo;t been standing far enough back to
look at yourself and see that in looking at yourself as an orphan,
you&rsquo;re not taking into consideration that you&rsquo;re really the
Son or Daughter of God, ignoring your Birthright&mdash;ignoring your
Identity. You see?

And therefore, you&rsquo;re incapable of abandoning the suffering,
abandoning the sacrifice and no longer finding value in working through
the life situations which are inseparable from sacrifice, which
it&rsquo;s your task to move through successfully so as to become valid
in your own right. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; deprivation breeds attack, being the belief that attack IS
justified. And as long as you would retain the deprivation&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in other words, as long as you insist on saying, &ldquo;But
Father, I&rsquo;d rather see it my way&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; attack becomes salvation and sacrifice becomes love.
</div>

It just can&rsquo;t be put any clearer than that. How skillfully you can
sacrifice and how skillfully you can attack so that people don&rsquo;t
recognize what you&rsquo;re doing, and you can leverage yourself into a
better position&mdash;you cement yourself in the experience of
separation, of loneliness.

Waking Up is about the release of all of that. The holy instant is about
the release of all of that.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
So is it that, in all your seeking for love&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; as an orphan, mind you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you seek for sacrifice and FIND it. Yet you find not love. It
is impossible to deny what love is, and still RECOGNIZE it.
</div>

You see? I&rsquo;m going to put it simply: The capacity to love is
derived from your Creator because it is extended to you by Him as
Himself expressed. The capacity to love was not given to you as an
independent entity to have and to hold, [chuckle] till death do you
part, as a possession.

No. The capacity to love is what you find yourself having, we&rsquo;ll
say, or more appropriately, Being, when you let the Father back in.
That&rsquo;s why it constitutes fulfillment. That&rsquo;s why it
constitutes joy.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The meaning of love lies in what you have cast OUTSIDE yourself, and it
has no meaning at all apart from you.
</div>

You say, &ldquo;I&rsquo;d rather see things my way &hellip; I&rsquo;d
rather be an independent agent, which means, I&rsquo;d rather be what
we&rsquo;re calling an ego.&rdquo; And so that of yourself, which
you&rsquo;re ignoring, became the Holy Spirit held in trust while you
dallied with the ego.

Now I know I have said this over and over again, but it&rsquo;s simple
and it&rsquo;s clear and it helps to make clear what we&rsquo;re reading
about right now.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The meaning of love lies in what you have cast OUTSIDE yourself&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in other words, in the Holy Spirit&mdash;that which is nothing
more than your right Mind but which you have disowned because
you&rsquo;ve insisted upon being able to determine for yourself and by
yourself what everything means.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The meaning of love lies in what you have cast OUTSIDE yourself, and it
has no meaning at all apart from you. It is what you preferred to KEEP
that has no meaning.
</div>

And what you are preferring to keep are the definitions you&rsquo;re
making up and the right to make them and therefore be unconscious of
what really means something. You&rsquo;ve done this because no
one&rsquo;s told you there was something else you could be doing.

Well now, the Course is. And now, I am.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
While all that you would keep AWAY holds all the meaning of the
universe, and holds the universe together in its meaning.
</div>

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is what you preferred to KEEP that has no meaning. While all that
you would keep AWAY holds all the meaning of the universe, and holds
the universe together in its meaning.
</div>

Why is that? Because what&rsquo;s outside that you&rsquo;re ignoring is
God&mdash;the Creator&mdash;Being the Movement of Creation, giving it
all the Meaning it has which can&rsquo;t help but escape your attention
and awareness if you&rsquo;re insisting on your private, puny little
mind. Again, it&rsquo;s that simple.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For unless the universe were joined in YOU it would be apart from God,
and to be without Him IS to be without meaning.
</div>

Now listen:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In the holy instant the condition of love is met, for minds are joined
without the body&rsquo;s interference, and where there is communication,
there is peace.
</div>

In the holy instant is in the stillness, is in the place where
you&rsquo;ve let your mind be silent, where you have abandoned thinking,
where instead of, through thought processes providing meaning, you are
becoming silent with the desire to have meaning be revealed to you by
that which is responsible for All That Is.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In the holy instant the condition of love is met, for minds are joined
without the body&rsquo;s interference&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; they&rsquo;re joined without a claim of orphanhood. It&rsquo;s
met because there is no body identification occurring, just Mind
identification&mdash;Mind being the vantage point, the totality in which
all of Creation exists to be experienced.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Prince of Peace was born to re-establish the condition of love by
teaching that communication remains unbroken even if the body is
destroyed, provided that you see not the body as the NECESSARY means of
communication. And if you understand this lesson, you will realize that
to sacrifice the body is to sacrifice NOTHING, and communication&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and I&rsquo;ve been using the word &ldquo;communion&rdquo; in
this respect &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and communication, which MUST be of the mind, cannot BE
sacrificed. Where, then, IS sacrifice?
</div>

Now you better know that I will not let this opportunity pass us by to
be very clear.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Prince of Peace was born to re-establish the condition of love by
teaching that communication remains unbroken even if the body is
destroyed&hellip;
</div>

That does not mean the body isn&rsquo;t real. It does not mean that the
body is not eternal. It does not mean that the visibility and
tangibility of a divine idea is meaningless. It just means that
it&rsquo;s not the focal point. And even if it could be destroyed, it
wouldn&rsquo;t alter in any way the divine facts of
Being&mdash;that&rsquo;s all it means.

As with my example: If there could seem to be the destruction of a body,
it would be raised up, it would be re-identified, you might say, because
although it&rsquo;s not the focal point, it&rsquo;s inseparable from the
Idea which formed it. This is very important to understand.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; if you understand this lesson, you will realize that to
sacrifice the body is to sacrifice NOTHING&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; yeah, that&rsquo;s right! To sacrifice the use of the body as
the means of identifying yourself, instead of it being the visibility
and tangibility of your identity &hellip;

(I&rsquo;m sorry, this is me, Paul, I lost it.)

The simple point is, that the body is immortal, it is eternal, it will
forever identify your individuality, but it&rsquo;s not your identity.
It&rsquo;s just the rendering of it visible, experiencable.

To sacrifice the use of your body as the focal point, doesn&rsquo;t
constitute a sacrifice. It&rsquo;s like: To abandon the orphanage does
not constitute the loss of anything actual, but in actuality uncovers
the truth of you as the holy Son or Daughter of God, therefore,
fulfilling Purpose in all ways relative to you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; if you understand this lesson, you will realize that to
sacrifice the body is to sacrifice NOTHING,
</div>

&hellip; the concept &hellip; any discussion about it is totally
meaningless &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and communication&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; or I&rsquo;m going to say communion &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; which MUST be of the mind, cannot BE sacrificed. Where, then,
IS sacrifice?
</div>

Nowhere! It only seems to be present in the orphanage because
you&rsquo;ve insisted on sacrificing or ignoring your conscious
awareness of Who you Are. And that&rsquo;s what needs to be addressed.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The lesson I was born to teach, and still would teach to all my
brothers, is that sacrifice is nowhere and love is everywhere.
</div>

What does that mean? For example:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; sacrifice is nowhere and love is everywhere.
</div>

Well, it means that wherever sacrifice seemed to occur someone gave up
his life for freedom, etc. That&rsquo;s a misunderstanding that binds
everyone until the awareness of the capacity to raise the dead becomes
actualized. And the moment that becomes actualized and demonstrable, the
whole concept of sacrifice goes out the window&mdash;and the valuing of
it and the standing in awe of it and the reverence around it&mdash;it
will all go out the window no matter how meaningful it had been for how
many centuries. It will go out the window because it serves no purpose.
When raising the dead occurs, sacrifice serves no purpose. It
can&rsquo;t hold a candle to resurrection. You see?

This is where your head needs to begin to make new connections and allow
for new awarenesses.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The lesson I was born to teach, and still would teach to all my
brothers, is that sacrifice is nowhere and love is everywhere.
</div>

The undoing of any supposed need or value of sacrifice disappears in the
presence of Love.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For communication &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; communion &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; embraces EVERYTHING, and in the peace it re-establishes love
comes of itself.
</div>

Being in the orphanage or in the orphan mindset is not an experience of
peace. And peace doesn&rsquo;t seem to be important and so you ignore
that. There are more important things to take care of, like vengeance,
and getting even, and getting justice. But none of those activities Wake
you up, none of those activities return your sanity to you. You see?

In the holy instant when you&rsquo;re willing to become still and
you&rsquo;re willing to say, &ldquo;Father,&rdquo; or &ldquo;Holy
Spirit, help!&rdquo; and you are being genuine, the help will be
received because it has ever-presently been there.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and in the peace it re-establishes love comes of itself. Let no
despair darken the joy of Christmas, for the time of Christ is
meaningless apart from joy.
</div>

What&rsquo;s &ldquo;the time of Christ&rdquo;? Oh-h, let&rsquo;s see,
we&rsquo;re reading a chapter called, The Purpose of Time, yes! So the
time of Christ is the holy instant. The time of Christ is that moment in
which your mind clears and you experience being where God&rsquo;s laws
prevail and nothing else does and your sanity is returned to you and
your awareness of your holiness is experienced.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Let us join in celebrating peace &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; um-m&hellip; that thing that isn&rsquo;t really too valuable to
anybody in the orphanage &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Let us join in celebrating peace &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; I&rsquo;m going to say, by valuing it enough to choose for it
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; by demanding no sacrifice of anyone&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in order not to demand sacrifice of anyone you&rsquo;re going
to have to abandon any picture you have of him or her as having more
than you, or being able to take advantage of you. You&rsquo;re going to
have to abandon the definition of orphanhood that you are placing upon
him or her, and you&rsquo;re going to have to be willing to recognize
your brother&rsquo;s Father, your brother&rsquo;s Source as
God&mdash;just as it is with you.

You know what? You&rsquo;re not going to stop demanding sacrifice from
your brother until you stop imagining and believing with commitment that
you are in a state of existence called sacrifice. And that experience or
belief is not going to leave you until you abandon your
independence&mdash;in the holy instant where you say, &ldquo;Father,
help,&rdquo; and you genuinely invite Something in besides good old you.
You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Let us join in celebrating peace by demanding no sacrifice of anyone,
for so will you offer me the love I offer you.
</div>

Now mind you, these are the last few paragraphs of a chapter called, The
Purpose of Time. Looks like the purpose of time is to let your
Christhood register with you, and your Brotherhood with me register with
you, so that we might join together. Wow &hellip; The Purpose of Time.

Now the purpose of time isn&rsquo;t to have unending earthly pleasures
and to have all the newest and latest imaginations and fears and threats
and traumas, and all those good things that cause you to grow and mature
and become more than you were &hellip; and finally real&hellip; finally
valid in your own right.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What can be more joyous than to perceive we are deprived of NOTHING?
Such is the message of the time of Christ&hellip;
</div>

Mind you, this could be considered to be speaking about the calendar
celebration of Christmases&mdash;the time of Christ. No &hellip; but the
time of Christ is the holy instant, that place in you where a decision
is made to abandon isolation and independence.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Such is the message of the time of Christ, which I give you that YOU may
give it, and return it to the Father, Who gave it to me. For in the time
of Christ communication is restored&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; union resumes, because you&rsquo;ve abandoned the isolation
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and He joins us in the celebration of His Son&rsquo;s creation.
</div>

When you&rsquo;re not claiming to be an orphan anymore, you&rsquo;re
able to rejoice in your holiness, you&rsquo;re able to rejoice &hellip;
what? In the simple but profound experience of sanity that you&rsquo;ve
been missing. Being is a celebration of the truth, it&rsquo;s
celebratory, it&rsquo;s joyous, it&rsquo;s amazing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God offers thanks to the holy host who would receive Him, and let Him
enter and abide where He would be.
</div>

Now who&rsquo;s the holy host? You! Every Son or Daughter of God, every
Individuality, even if he or she thinks he or she is nothing more than a
body, it doesn&rsquo;t change the fact that the unalterable fact is that
each one is the holy host of God. It&rsquo;s the coming back into the
conscious experience of that, that constitutes Waking up and is the
purpose of time.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God offers thanks &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; rejoices in other words, is happy &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; offers thanks to the holy host who would receive Him, and let
Him enter and abide where He would be. And by your welcome does He
welcome you into Himself, for what is contained in you who welcome Him
is RETURNED to Him.
</div>

The Prodigal Son comes Home. That which belongs to him is returned to
him by your willingness to not try to do every little thing all by
yourself anymore.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And we but celebrate His Wholeness as we welcome Him into ourselves.
Those who receive the Father are One with Him, being host to Him Who
created them.
</div>

Now, I know these words can be understood just as words. But mind you,
we&rsquo;re talking about an actual experience, an actual experience
like when you meditate and you do move out of the level of thinking. You
have an experience of profound peace. When you allow yourself to abide
in it, it seems to you as though that peace becomes filled with love, an
emerging moving love. And then behind that comes joy. It&rsquo;s just
the way it works. And you recognize that joy and that peace and that
love as being utterly divine, flawless, perfect, infinite, dependable,
unalterable, exquisite.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Those who receive the Father are One with Him, being host to Him Who
created them. And by allowing Him to enter, the remembrance of the
Father enters with Him, and with Him they remember the only relationship
they ever had, and ever WANT TO HAVE.
</div>

Mind you, when you find yourself in relationship with God as an
experience, you find yourself in relationship with all that God is (and
I&rsquo;m going to be even clearer) with all that God is Being. And that
means you&rsquo;re in relationship with all Creation&mdash;nothing
lonely about it, no sacrifice associated with it, no misery.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; with Him they remember the only relationship they ever had, and
ever WANT TO HAVE.
</div>

An infinite all inclusive relationship with all that God is Being,
called Creation.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is the weekend in which a new year will be born &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; doesn&rsquo;t matter that it&rsquo;s not the weekend when
December 31st occurs, any weekend can be the weekend.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is the weekend &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; let this be the weekend &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; in which a new year will be born from the time of Christ.
</div>

From the holy instant.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I have perfect faith in you to do all that you would accomplish. Nothing
will be lacking, and you will make complete, and NOT destroy.
</div>

Of course, if you&rsquo;re being in the holy instant &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you will make complete, and NOT destroy. Say and understand
this:
</div>

And I want it to be utterly clear that the very end of this chapter
about The Purpose of Time has to do with union, has to do with actually
abandoning isolation with what? . . your Father, because it&rsquo;s your
experience of communion with your Father that bares witness to your true
identity and therefore, your inescapable awareness of the true identity
of everyone and everything, and that&rsquo;s called sanity.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Say and understand this:

"I give you to the Holy Spirit as part of myself.
</div>

Wow, guess it must be talking about my Brother, my Sister or some part
of Creation.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
"I give you to the Holy Spirit &hellip;
</div>

&ldquo;I&rsquo;m not going to give you to the headmaster of the
orphanage, you little bastard&mdash;fatherless being &hellip;&rdquo; No.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
"I give you to the Holy Spirit &hellip;
</div>

See, you&rsquo;ve walked out of the orphanage. You&rsquo;ve abandoned
it. And you&rsquo;ve abandoned the mindset that causes you to see your
Brother in any other way than truly. And you say:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
"I give you &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; my Brother &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; to the Holy Spirit as part of myself. I know that you will be
released, unless I want to use you to imprison MYSELF.
</div>

Why might you want to do that? Well, if you value being an orphan and
all that goes along with it, you&rsquo;ve got to have someone else to be
an orphan with you. You need someone else to confirm that your insanity
is truly sane. You need someone else to agree with you.

Now that you&rsquo;re coming out of that you say:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I know that you will be released, unless I want to use you to imprison
MYSELF.
</div>

That&rsquo;s a great deal of sanity right there.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In the name of MY freedom I will your release, Because I recognize that
we will be released TOGETHER."
</div>

It&rsquo;s the only way. And when you say this, realize that you
can&rsquo;t say it from the standpoint of an arrogant little mind.
You&rsquo;ve got to say it from the context of your awareness of the
truth of your divinity, the truth of your Sonhood, the truth of your
Being the Son or Daughter of God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In the name of MY freedom I will your release&hellip;
</div>

Incredible. I can&rsquo;t have what I don&rsquo;t give you. I
won&rsquo;t have what I won&rsquo;t give you. So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In the name of MY freedom I will your release&hellip;
</div>

Do you see, this is the finale of the purpose of time.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In the name of MY freedom I will your release, Because I recognize that
we will be released TOGETHER.&rdquo;

So will the year begin &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; or so will this next week begin &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; in joy and freedom. There is much to do, and we have been long
delayed. Accept the holy instant as this year &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; or this week or this day &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is born, and take your place, so long left unfulfilled, in the
Great Awakening. Make this year different by making it all the SAME. And
let ALL your relationships be made holy FOR you. This is our will.
</div>

And I would say, this hasn&rsquo;t been your will on your own, but join
with me, it is our will and it is your release and your Brother&rsquo;s
release &hellip; period.

And the last word of this chapter is:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Amen.
</div>

Nothing wishy-washy about it&mdash;all of it clear. All of it black and
white. All of it simple. Don&rsquo;t find anything better to do than
this. And I could say, see what kind of a week you have, or see what
kind of a world you have, or see what kind of wonderful Brothers and
Sisters you have.

And again, the simple truth: Sacrifice has nothing to do with the way
your world behaves or the way your Brothers and Sisters behave.
Sacrifice has entirely to do with your claiming a right to engage in
being unconnected with your Source, like a lamp that tries to shine its
light without being plugged in. It never will become a real lamp. And
you never have become a mortal.

Let&rsquo;s join together as the holy Sons and Daughters of God, Now!

[^1]: Bible: Matthew 6.9
[^2]: T15.10 The End of Sacrifice

