---
title: Dec 5, 2009
ref: "T16.1 True Empathy"
alink: "/acim/text/16/chap1601/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

Well, as you heard, we&rsquo;re going to be talking about empathy. And
you might be wondering, in the context of what we&rsquo;ve been reading,
where empathy popped up from. So I want to back up to the end of last
week&rsquo;s text&mdash;the prayer that says:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
"I give you to the Holy Spirit as part of myself.[^1]
</div>

This is addressed to your Brother or your Sister, or even to any part of
your world.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
"I give you to the Holy Spirit as part of myself. I know that you will
be released, unless I want to use you to imprison MYSELF. In the name
of MY freedom I will your release, Because I recognize that we will be
released TOGETHER."
</div>

I want to home in on the first line:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
"I give you to the Holy Spirit &hellip;
</div>

You hear this often &hellip; you know &hellip; you have a brother
who&rsquo;s having a problem: &ldquo;Turn him over to the Holy
Spirit!&rdquo; And many of you treat your brother as though he&rsquo;s
one of the discs in a tiddlywink game. And you take your disc and press
it against the disc that he is, on the edge, and you pop your disc off
of the edge and it makes his disc jump&mdash;it makes the other disc
jump. And with a little bit of practice you develop a skill and can
direct the direction of the jump and the length of the jump so that you
can, hopefully, pop it into the bowl in the center of the playing board.

And so, it is as though you say to your Brother, &ldquo;I give you to
the Holy Spirit&mdash; kerplunk…bump…bump…bump&rdquo; and hopefully, he
goes into the dish. And you say, &ldquo;Ah-h, what a relief &hellip;
I&rsquo;m going to let the Holy Spirit take care of this.&rdquo; And you
walk on your way thinking you have done a wonderful thing. After all,
you&rsquo;ve turned him over to the Holy Spirit&mdash;you&rsquo;ve
released him from your caring, you might say, from your efforting, to
the Holy Spirit. It says to do it in the Course.

And so, you walk on your way and you attend to other things without
giving another thought to your brother whom you have &ldquo;kerplunked
to the Holy Spirit&rdquo; and no blessing as occurred.

You see, as an orphan, as someone who is an independent authorizer, you
see yourself as a body automatically. And you see everyone
else&mdash;all the other orphans&mdash;as bodies, things &ldquo;out
there&rdquo; that you can sort of &ldquo;kerplunk &hellip; release to
the Holy Spirit.&rdquo; You know, you don&rsquo;t think you&rsquo;re
releasing his mind to the Holy Spirit, your releasing &ldquo;him,&rdquo;
this him that&rsquo;s located where the object is, called &ldquo;his
body.&rdquo; And your releasing him from the concern you, as a body
have, or the efforting of caring that you, as a body, have been
providing. All of this through space.

Now it&rsquo;s very important to understand this because &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
"I give you to the Holy Spirit as part of myself. I know that you will
be released, unless I want to use you to imprison MYSELF.
</div>

Why you might even think that by having done a good
&ldquo;kerplunk&rdquo; you are succeeding in releasing yourself. But let
me ask you something: In this scenario that I&rsquo;ve described,
where&rsquo;s the holy instant? In this scenario, where is it that you
have stepped back&mdash;the first part of the two-step, you
know&mdash;that you have stepped back, become still and expressed a
desire to the Father, or to the Holy Spirit, or to me to know what is
the truth here? About what? About your Brother. Where, in the scenario
I&rsquo;ve just described has that occurred? And what&rsquo;s the
purpose of that two-step being taken? What is the purpose of practicing
the holy instant?

It is so that you might become infilled, suffused with the awareness of
truth about your Brother as God sees Him, as God sees It, as the Holy
Spirit truly sees your Brother, etc.

Now, that is a definition of true empathy. And yet, what I&rsquo;ve
described has nothing to do with relating to your Brother through space,
as a body that could be kerplunked into the Holy Spirit, or where
involvement with him would end and you would be free to go on about your
business hopefully having been released yourself.

So, this needs to be understood.

Empathy has nothing to do with becoming sensitive to your Brother
through space, body-t0-body&mdash;bodies that have brains and sensory
organs that allow the body to be conscious of the world and of life. You
see? Empathy has nothing to do with that.

And yet, relating in that fashion is the only thing you&rsquo;re really
used to. It&rsquo;s the way it is in the orphanage. It&rsquo;s the way
those who don&rsquo;t know who they Are relate to each other, as bodies.
And this is what you&rsquo;re released from: Is the goal of the Course,
is the goal of the Holy Spirit that would have you Wake up.

You&rsquo;re not here to accomplish things through space by the force of
will that does nothing but further substantiate and seem to solidify the
existence of organismic bodies&mdash;matter, density. You&rsquo;re not
here to further substantiate your orphanhood and further bind yourself
in ignorance to who you truly Are.

Now, every week, every time we meet, every time you hear me speaking
through Paul&rsquo;s mouth, Paul has provided an example of the
two-step. He has provided an example of the holy instant. He has no idea
what is going to happen. And he is willing to allow himself to be in
that not-knowing place. Why? Well, because he cares about everyone who
listens.

But, he has learned that in order for his caring about everyone to bear
fruit, he had better not be empathizing with them. He had better be
withdrawing his attention from them, as bodies &ldquo;out there&rdquo;
in his experience. And instead, become still and go within, and desire
to know the truth from the Father.

Now, every week we speak and we relate to all of you. And then, during
the following week, at various times, many of you express distress with
something I said or that something I said could easily have been taken
the wrong way, and that person thinks I need to clarify what I said so
there would be no misunderstanding. Or others will say &hellip; well,
they&rsquo;ll have another gripe, a constructive one, you know, always
wanting the truth to be brought out more clearly, yes, and their
expression of these ideas are accompanied with an emotion of distress.

Now, Paul could come in on the following Sunday or Saturday night and
sit down, knowing that there are those listening on the internet or in
the group here, who have expressed these concerns, who might not be
happy once again with what I have to say. And he could approach me,
start listening to me with a bit of a bias, with a bit of a willful
request for me either to address these issues or perhaps, to see that
these individuals will not be distressed in the coming week so that he
won&rsquo;t have to be bothered either. You see?

Now, his desire to have me respond in a certain way so his Brothers or
Sisters won&rsquo;t be distressed is Paul playing tiddlywinks with his
friends and kerplunking them into &ldquo;my will&rdquo; &hellip;
kerplunking them into an answer that will relieve him of distress,
because he cares.

Well, you know what? If he does that, he won&rsquo;t hear me because he
will be coloring whatever goes on between us. And his apparent caring
that would be called, &ldquo;empathy,&rdquo; will not constitute what
will bring forth answers that are needed.

The simple fact is that none of you know what the truth is that Wakes
you up. None of you knows what the truth is that heals because if you
did, the healing would be evident. So your memory banks do not include
the Answer yet.

And so, you don&rsquo;t have the means to express true empathy.

Now, Paul has learned from doing it over and over and over again, that
when he withdraws his caring about those who are listening and what they
might be feeling, and brings his genuine, quiet, sole attention to me,
when he speaks, answers that constitute the truth that heals comes out
of his mouth. And those listening feel that true empathy has been
expressed&mdash;true empathy has been shared because they feel heard,
and they feel that they have been heard because the language has been so
clearly appropriate for them.

Now, you see what I&rsquo;m saying? I&rsquo;m saying that true empathy
occurs when you join with the Holy Spirit or you ask the Father for His
perspective and regardless of what your friends and acquaintances are
saying or wanting or feeling, you share what the Holy Spirit is
revealing. That will always demonstrate true empathy. And because no
attempt was made to reach your brother through space, body-to-body, the
density of bodies is lessened. The density of the experience of the
mortality of a physical form is lessened because you are not behaving as
a form, you are behaving as Mind, you are behaving as the Movement of
Love which has no form, but always has focus.

Again, it never has form but it always has focus. And the focus is a
Movement and the Movement is rendered visible and tangible but not as
matter! You could say it&rsquo;s rendered visible and tangible as the
incredible glory of God&mdash;things, yes, but things that are a moving
experience &hellip; totally Mind.

Now, when that happens, you will be in constant involvement with your
Brother or your Sister. Doing this will not put you in a position of
being released from a relationship, released from an involvement,
released from caring. But you know what? The involvement will not be
manipulative. The involvement will never involve any aspect of control.
And that&rsquo;s the incredible beauty of it. And it&rsquo;s the
incredible difference between a holy relationship and a special
relationship.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Chapter Sixteen

*The Forgiveness of Illusions*
</div>

The forgiveness of that which never really was. To abandon the orphanage
is to forgive the fundamental illusion.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To empathize does not mean to join in suffering, for that is what you
must refuse to understand &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; or to pretend that you understand or to think that you
understand.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To empathize does not mean to join in suffering, for that is what you
must refuse to understand. That is the ego&rsquo;s interpretation of
empathy, and is always used to form a special relationship in which the
suffering is shared.
</div>

Not only in which the suffering is shared but in which body as form
becomes more solidified. Because why? Because more willfulness, more
self-determination has been brought into play for the purpose of control
and it comes clothed in this friendly word: empathize. To have empathy
is a wonderful thing &hellip; not if it doesn&rsquo;t happen in the
context of a holy instant.

Think about it. Is it not more often than not, that you empathize with
someone when they&rsquo;re having a problem rather than when
they&rsquo;re having a joy? And although the practice of empathy done
well even fools you into thinking that you are experiencing with your
Brother his or her sorrow or trauma or distress, the fact is, that all
you&rsquo;re doing is picking up on cues or clues in their
behavior&mdash;their tone of voice or their words&mdash;that remind you
of an experience you had which throws you right into memory,
doesn&rsquo;t it? &hellip;right out of the moment you&rsquo;re in. Your
relating to them in their distress is a matter of you abandoning
yourself to your memory of similar circumstances and the feelings you
had, the feelings of loss that you had&mdash;loss of control, loss of
superiority, loss of ability to be effective, loss of ability to be well
and expect to get well.

And there may be warm moments of tender embrace and quiet togetherness
and tears shed, demonstrating that you truly are understanding them,
feeling with them and even on film it might be a beautiful poignant
moment. But without the empathy occurring in the context of the holy
instant, it&rsquo;s only a temporary salve. It does not constitute the
truth that will snap that one&rsquo;s or your awareness out of the
illusion into the Reality&mdash;God&rsquo;s Reality&mdash;because you
cannot draw from your memory an experience of empathy that&rsquo;s based
on truth when you are joining with them in their suffering. It&rsquo;s
just that simple.

Because the relationship that occurs is not happening in the context of
the holy instant, which means in the context of your actual connection
with the Holy Spirit or the Father or me, there literally is nothing
present to transform the moment you&rsquo;re in and it further
solidifies a special relationship, which is a relationship of bondage
&hellip; to what? &hellip;to ignorance&mdash;bondage to your ignorance of
what and who you truly Are, the awareness of which [snaps fingers] would
lift you out instantaneously of the whole situation that seems to call
for this wonderful element called, e-m-p-a-t-h-y. You see?

Now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The capacity to empathize is very useful to the Holy Spirit, provided
you let Him use it in His way. He does not understand suffering, and
would have you teach it is not understandable.
</div>

He would not have you teach that you understand as you sit there gently
crying with your brother or sister in joined suffering over his
predicament.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When He &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; relates through you, He does not relate through the ego to
another ego.
</div>

You know, from this body here to that body over there so that he might
tiddly-wink him into his Awakening. No.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He does not join in pain, knowing that healing pain is not accomplished
by delusional attempts to enter into it, and lighten it by sharing the
delusion.
</div>

You see? That&rsquo;s the normal practice of empathy. And that has
become the acquired intent of the practice of empathy: To relieve your
brother of his suffering by sharing some of it&mdash;sometimes called,
&ldquo;taking on part of the problem yourself.&rdquo; That isn&rsquo;t
Brotherhood and that&rsquo;s not Brotherly love. And you must begin to
find the holy instant more practical and more truly empathetic than the
prevailing use and definition of empathy.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The clearest proof that empathy as the ego uses it is destructive lies
in the fact that it is applied only to certain types of problems, and in
certain people.
</div>

Well, people who have problems. There&rsquo;s a certain kind of people
that it&rsquo;s used with. It&rsquo;s seldom use with people who are not
having problems.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
These it selects out, and joins with. And it never joins except to
strengthen itself.
</div>

A really good empathy, if I might put it that way, is seen as very
valuable because he helps people not feel alone when they&rsquo;re in
misery. Well, you know what? I don&rsquo;t want any of you to help
people feel not so much alone when they&rsquo;re in their misery, I want
you to be a Presence who&rsquo;s listening to the Father for His
perspective on your Brother who is suffering, so that it is your
conscious awareness of the Father&rsquo;s Perspective of your Brother
that you bring into the moment with your Brother, instead of drawing
upon memory to identify with him. So that what? So that you begin to
relate to your Brother and empathize with him on the basis of your
experience of what he divinely Is, which has no part in problems and
problems have no part in him. And that is the source of healing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Make no mistake about this maneuver; the ego always empathizes to
weaken, and to weaken is always to attack.
</div>

I know this is very difficult to see, but the fact is that when you
empathize with your brother and you join with him in his sorrow, in his
misery, you&rsquo;re not coming from strength within yourself. And in
your joining weakness-to-weakness, you&rsquo;re emphasizing and
substantiating and seeming to prolong weakness.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You do not know what empathizing means.
</div>

Although now you do, because I&rsquo;ve been talking about it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet of this you may be sure; if you will merely sit quietly by &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that&rsquo;s the first part of the two-step: To back off and
become still.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet of this you may be sure; if you will merely sit quietly by and let
the Holy Spirit relate through you, you will empathize with strength,
and both of you will gain in strength, and not in weakness.
</div>

Now, again, why all of a sudden are we talking about empathy?
We&rsquo;re talking about empathy because when you go into the holy
instant and you say&mdash;of your Brother and to your
Brother&mdash;&ldquo;I give you to the Holy Spirit as part of myself, I
know that you will be released unless I want to use you to imprison
myself. In the name of my freedom, I will your release because I
recognize that we will be released together.&rdquo; And that&rsquo;s the
only way it will be happening.

So we&rsquo;re discussing empathy because that prayer is what brings
true empathy into play. What brings true empathy into play is
participating in the holy instant, using the holy instant to learn of
the Father what the truth is about your Brother, so that you might with
feeling, relate to what is true about your Brother&mdash;your
Father&rsquo;s Son, the holy One.

And this act is the beginning of a permanent relationship&mdash;not a
relationship that you will become released from&mdash;a relationship you
will be happy to be involved in forever because it doesn&rsquo;t involve
empathy with suffering, but it involves the ongoing joined experience of
the joy of Being.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your part is only to remember this; you do not want anything you value
to come of the relationship.
</div>

What does that mean? It means that you do not want anything that you
have learned in the orphanage. You do not want any of the concepts about
what it means to be an orphan to become embodied or manifest in your
relationship with your brother that you&rsquo;re having true empathy
with.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You will neither to hurt it nor to heal it in your own way.
</div>

According to your best judgments&mdash;your highest spiritual learning.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You do not know what healing is.
</div>

Just like when Paul sits down on Saturday nights, he does not know what
healing is, he does not know what needs to be said, he does not know why
it needs to be said. But in his allowing, what needs to be said is said
and what needs to be learned is being learned, and healing is occurring
whether he can pin-point it or not.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
All you have learned of empathy is from the past. And there is nothing
from the past that you would share&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; why? You say, &ldquo;We&rsquo;ve learned from the past &hellip;
the past is what helps us to be in the present better.&rdquo; But if a
fundamental premise of the past is that you&rsquo;re just a physical
organism, that you are just a body with a brain and that&rsquo;s it,
then your past does not include within it what is essential to being
free&mdash;of Waking up. It doesn&rsquo;t include it.

It also preoccupies you from the present, so that you are not able to be
present in the present with innocent eyes. They are biased by your past,
they are biased by your well-established beliefs, they are biased by the
learning that has been handed to you that once again has appealed to
this funny something in you all, that says, &ldquo;I want to get to the
end of learning. I want to get to the end of involvement. I want to get
to the end of what causes me to put forth effort. I want to arrive at
that point where I don&rsquo;t have to pay attention and can just, as
silly is it sounds, pay attention&mdash;just be conscious but without
effort being associated with it.&rdquo;

You know what? You tend to think that Creation is a movement occurring
in space and time, a developing movement of objects or a movement of
developing objects, things or forms. But you see, that&rsquo;s based on
the idea that Creation is form&mdash;it&rsquo;s matter in time and
space. But what if Creation is a Movement of Being, that can best be
described as the conscious experience of learning&mdash;not a
development of things, but a capacity that each one has to know more
than he or she has ever known before.

Star Trek says, &ldquo;To go where no man has gone before.&rdquo; What
about, &ldquo;To be what no man has been before.&rdquo; What about,
&ldquo;To be the conscious Movement of Mind that constitutes learning
what wasn&rsquo;t known before,&rdquo;&mdash;which obviously is going to
mean that Being, existing, the experience of Life, is going to involve
your, for lack of better words, focused attention infinitely eternally.

You&rsquo;re not going to get rest from being conscious. And
you&rsquo;re not going to get rest from knowing more than you knew
before, which, if you think you&rsquo;re something tiny, is going to
feel like you being stretched and stretched and stretched beyond your
capacity, when it&rsquo;s nothing but the incredible Movement of
Creation.

If you weren&rsquo;t an orphan, if you were a holy Child of God, what
would the experience be like? Well, that&rsquo;s my first clue.
It&rsquo;s you experiencing Creation, not as a body, a physique, a form
in a material universe, but rather as Mind learning, forever learning,
forever discovering&mdash;not discovering anything that makes you
better, not discovering anything that puts you ahead of anybody else,
but discovering the incredible infinite Mind of God&mdash;an infinitely
joyful and fulfilling experience.

I&rsquo;m going to back up again:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your part is only to remember this; you do not want anything you value
to come of the relationship.
</div>

What you want is what the Holy Spirit would value. What you want is what
your right Mind would value. And you will not find out what that is
without shutting up and desiring to know what it is and staying with
that focus until the clarity dawns on you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You will neither to hurt it nor to heal it in your own way. You do not
know what healing is.
</div>

See? I&rsquo;ve just shared with you that you haven&rsquo;t known what
Creation is. I&rsquo;ve revealed to you that It&rsquo;s an intimate
experience of learning of infinity eternally.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
All you have learned of empathy is from the past. And there is nothing
from the past that you would share, for there is nothing there that you
would keep.
</div>

Is this becoming clearer? There really isn&rsquo;t anything there that
you would keep, because there&rsquo;s a fundamental flaw which
you&rsquo;re all in the process of abandoning to one degree or
another&mdash;God bless you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Do not use empathy to make the past real, and so perpetuate it.
</div>

Listen &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Step gently aside&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; step gently aside from your willfulness, from your focused
determination to have the good you would think is best, be brought
forth.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Step gently aside and let the healing be done for you.
</div>

How? By doing the two-step, by engaging in the holy instant. Understand
that engaging in the holy instant is going to bring forth empathy, your
capacity as a holy Son or Daughter of God, to know of your Brother or
Sister&rsquo;s holiness because your understanding has come as a direct
revelation from the Father. That&rsquo;s empathy.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Step gently aside and let the healing be done for you. Keep but one
thought in mind, and do not lose sight of it, however tempted you may be
to judge any situation, and to determine your response by judging it.
</div>

&ldquo;Oh-h, I would help him if he would do this &hellip; Oh-h, I would
help him but I can see that he&rsquo;s not practicing the holy instant.
He&rsquo;s not this. He&rsquo;s not that.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Focus your mind only on this:
</div>

And we have another prayer:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
"I am not alone, and I would not intrude the past upon my Guest.
</div>

Your Brother, whom you&rsquo;re no longer giving to the Holy Spirit as
though he&rsquo;s a tiddly-wink.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&ldquo;I have invited Him, and He is here. I need do nothing except not
to interfere."
</div>

How do you not interfere? By silencing your human will. And how do you
silence your human will? By doing something other than engaging it. And
the something other is, that you say, &ldquo;Father, what is the truth
here? Father, reveal to me the holiness of my Brother so that I might
feel with him his holiness that will heal and transform and lift us both
out of the illusion of being orphans in an orphanage, so that I might
enjoy being in relationship with him forever and no longer want relief
from my relationships.&rdquo;

It just keeps getting better and better. I love you all. And I look
forward to being with you next time.

[^1]: T16.1 True Empathy

