---
title: Dec 19, 2009
ref: "T16.1 True Empathy"
alink: "/acim/text/16/chap1601/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

Well, it&rsquo;s slightly less than a week until &ldquo;my
birthday.&rdquo; It&rsquo;s a time when it&rsquo;s very easy to abandon
the holy instant because of course, when you celebrate &ldquo;my
birthday,&rdquo; you&rsquo;re celebrating something in the past with no
compensation, if I may put it that way.

What I mean by that is, that ordinarily, you don&rsquo;t celebrate the
birthdays of the dead. Ordinarily, you celebrate the birthdays of those
who are alive. And what do you do? You spend your time with him or with
her enjoying that one&rsquo;s presence, having fun with that one.

And so, you don&rsquo;t abandon the instant in which the holiness of it
all can be experienced, whether you actually take advantage of it or
not.

I&rsquo;m going to ask you this year, on my birthday, for you to make a
point of being with me. You know, next Friday, be with me in the present
by asking things of me, by reaching out to me and by listening for my
response. Next Friday &hellip; you know, in the &ldquo;now&rdquo; at
that time, so that you have, on my birthday, an experience of the living
me, my presence and my availability to you&mdash;not as a Godhead but as
your Brother, as a friend.

And I hope that while you&rsquo;re with family or whoever you&rsquo;re
celebrating Christmas with, that while you are being with them, you will
make a point of just addressing me with a remark here or
there&mdash;just a conscious moment of your extending yourself to me.
And I want you to know, that every time you do that, I will respond
whether you hear it or not.

I will also tell you that by virtue of doing it, you are more likely to
hear me, than if you don&rsquo;t do it at all. Because then you will be
occupied with, you know, the turkey or the gifts or the family or the
music, or whatever it might be.

Now, we have a new section here called, True Empathy. And before we go
on to what true empathy is, I want to take a little bit more time to
talk about what it isn&rsquo;t, but what you believe it is and what you
use it for.

Empathy, as you think of it, is a way for you to be present with a
Brother or a Sister, a friend, to be intimately present with them,
where, in so many words, you feel what they feel or you try to feel for
what they are feeling without any blocks in the way&mdash;you try to let
down obstructions.

But as long as you are behaving as though you&rsquo;re an orphan and are
therefore in a constant state of vulnerability, every single act of
empathy that you engage in will, at the bottom line, be able to be
traced back to self-protection, to securing safety in what otherwise is
a hostile environment&mdash;a hostile world, a hostile universe, a
polarized existence.

Very often your practice of empathy is engaged in, so that you will not
be caught off guard by your &ldquo;untrustworthy&rdquo; Brothers&rsquo;
behavior. And so you will be sensitive, especially to the Brothers or
Sisters who seem to be the least trustworthy, whose behavior tends to
show that they&rsquo;re likely to behave in unloving ways.

When you make a point of expressing empathy toward a Brother in a
helpful, non-self-protective manner, and you really have their best
interests at heart, you will find that what makes it reasonable for you
to do this is that that one provides you with something meaningful. And
if you&rsquo;re not able to be empathetic, if you&rsquo;re not able to
be present with that one well, you may lose whatever that one provides
that has meaning for you.

And so if you have a loved one who is suffering from something, you will
tend to help them because you love them, but also because if something
happened to them and they were no longer around, you would be at a loss
that you don&rsquo;t want to have to cope with. And so it behooves you
to be empathetic, it behooves you to be sensitive to that one so as to
be able to help them still be around and fulfill your needs.

Now, I realize that you may feel that what I&rsquo;m expressing is
rather harsh and unreasonable, but you know what? It&rsquo;s important
for you to know, that when you think you are doing something
good&mdash;ultimately good in some way or another&mdash;and you are not
actually doing something ultimately good, somebody needs to tell you.

Now, I am not telling you that when you behave from your orphan
mentality, even though it&rsquo;s with well-intentioned empathy, that
you are not doing something good. When I tell you that, I also tell you
what you can do and what you need to do in order to, for lack of better
words, express empathy that is good and that does have benefit. And
that&rsquo;s what we&rsquo;ve been discussing for a couple of weeks.

Empathy as you currently use it from your orphan mentality is always
manipulative and always has at its bottom line, righteousness. You do it
to demonstrate your capacity to be right.

Now, you say that you do it so that you can be on top of things&mdash;so
that you can respond well. Well, if you&rsquo;ve done that, you say,
&ldquo;I did it right.&rdquo; If you behave in a way and it
doesn&rsquo;t turn out well, you feel, &ldquo;I did it wrong.&rdquo;

Empathy is something more than a means of expressing and achieving
rightness. Empathy has nothing to do with being right. But being right
is important to all of you. There&rsquo;s a saying, &ldquo;Right is
might!&rdquo; as though right is strength. But that very statement is an
intellectual conclusion arrived at through thinking. It&rsquo;s not
divine insight. It&rsquo;s not you knowing the truth. And because
it&rsquo;s not you knowing the truth, and is the result of an
intellectual process, the statement can be reversed. And it is reversed,
and it says, &ldquo;Might is right!&rdquo; And so whoever has the
&ldquo;might&rdquo; to assert and conquer or control is by virtue of the
expression of &ldquo;might,&rdquo; right!&rdquo; You see?

Right is not might. And might is not right. Oh-h &hellip;

Empathy does not help you be appropriate in your blindness, in spite of
your blindness. Empathy is what uncovers your Vision&mdash;uncovers the
fact, reveals the fact that you are not blind. And you know what? It
accomplishes it through a state of intimacy.

As we&rsquo;ve said, in the practice of the holy instant, you step back,
you shut up and you ask of the Father, you abandon your privateness, and
you ask of Something else than yourself and your best judgments,
&ldquo;What is the truth here? How do You see my Brother? How do You see
my Sister? How do You see that tree? How do You see this world, what is
the truth about it?&rdquo; And then you listen &hellip; and you let it
be revealed, you let the Father speak or you let the Holy spirit speak
or you let me speak.

That is a moment of intimacy. It is a moment of connection. It is a
moment of union.

Now, true empathy is Knowing. Knowing with a capital &ldquo;K.&rdquo;
That&rsquo;s true empathy. How do you arrive at an experience of
Knowing? You arrive at it by abandoning your attempts to be right. You
experience it as a result of abandoning your need and your attempts to
control. You accomplish it by abandoning your privacy.

Now I cannot make this clear enough, and unfortunately, I cannot paint
the picture black enough to make you want to spontaneously abandon it.
But everything you do, absolutely anything you do privately as a result
of your own thoughts going on in your, &ldquo;you say,&rdquo; in your
own head, without involvement with anyone else, any activity that you
engage in privately, deprives you of your sanity. It deprives you of
your fulfillment because it keeps you securely in the state of
orphanhood.

Now that means it keeps you in a state of illusion because you
aren&rsquo;t an orphan and you did not create yourself.

As long as you use empathy to establish righteousness so that you might
be something in your own right, or you might say, in your own rightness,
you are using your mind in a way that absolutely inhibits any experience
of intimacy because you&rsquo;re not letting anything else in to be with
you or for you to be with.

Now, another way you use empathy is to sometimes connect with God. You
want to have empathy with God. You want to feel what God feels. But
here&rsquo;s the flaw in it: You ask God for a favor. You ask God for
help in this situation or that situation. And so it is as though you
send a message out and you don&rsquo;t know whether He receives it or
not, and then, if something happens in your experience that resolves the
problem, you say, &ldquo;Oh, God heard my prayer and God answered my
prayer.&rdquo;

But where&rsquo;s the moment when God picked up the phone and you heard
Him say, &ldquo;Hello&rdquo; and you could say, &ldquo;hello&rdquo; back
to him? It didn&rsquo;t happen. But if He had said, &ldquo;Hello&rdquo;
and you said, &ldquo;hello,&rdquo; empathy would have occurred. You see?

You would have been in a position to feel God&rsquo;s Meaning. And God
would have been in a position for you to experience His Meaning. And
there would have been joy. You see? It&rsquo;s similar to what I&rsquo;m
asking you to do next Friday: Have a direct Real experience with me on
this birthday of mine, that you&rsquo;re celebrating by being absent
from the moment you&rsquo;re in (in which you could connect with me)
because your attention is on a day two thousand years ago.

Don&rsquo;t do that. Let&rsquo;s make the connection. Let&rsquo;s let
the intimacy be there. Let&rsquo;s provide the environment in which
empathy can occur, empathy being, Knowing&mdash;the Knowing that occurs
when God speaks to you, when I speak to you. I am speaking to you right
now, every one of you, I am speaking to you right now. It&rsquo;s real.
In other words, what I&rsquo;m saying is, that empathy is the result of
intimate involvement.

Now, another way in which empathy occurs in unreal and inadequate ways,
is when you do ask God for an answer: An answer that will help you
function better in the world or that will allow you to function in a way
that resolves dissonance in your relationships. In other words,
you&rsquo;re asking for intimacy with God so that your intimacy with God
is not the subject of your intimacy, but the resolution of a problem
with others is the topic of the intimacy. And the moment God tells you
the answer, you say, &ldquo;thanks&rdquo; and you attend to applying the
answer to the experience.

Like, &ldquo;H-e-l-l-o &hellip;&rdquo; God might say&hellip;
&ldquo;H-e-l-l-o &hellip; are you there? I thought we had a chance for
being together &hellip;&rdquo; You see? So that&rsquo;s not real
empathy.

Now, when I speak to you through Paul, as right now, what you&rsquo;re
seeing is a joining that is occurring between Paul and me. He&rsquo;s
not asking me questions, but we are involved together in a mutual
endeavor, I&rsquo;ll put it that way. So, you might say that our reason
for communicating is to have the experience of communicating. You see
what I&rsquo;m saying?

You want to have an experience of God for the purpose of having an
experience of God. Not so that you can use God for a third or another
reason. Paul is getting practice at what? He&rsquo;s getting practice at
intimacy with me that is more than just a question and an answer here
and there to solve another problem. In other words, do you see what
I&rsquo;m saying? Paul is getting experience at ongoing intimacy that is
a direct communion. And so, he&rsquo;s getting more and more experience
at not being an orphan. And the more experience he has at not being an
orphan, the less he&rsquo;ll want to have more of an experience of being
an orphan. And there is a point at which he will yield on an on-going
basis to our union.

Now, there is a purpose for this union. There is a purpose for the union
I am encouraging each of you to have with your Guides on an on-going
basis. And although in the beginning, you need encouragement and
somewhat of a push to discipline yourself to return to the joined state
when you find yourself getting distracted, ultimately the reason for
being joined is so that you might permanently experience co-operation
with another.

Have you ever had an experience of working with someone who is so
attuned to you, or it seems as though the two of you are so attuned to
each other that you can almost do things without talking&mdash;each of
you being one jump ahead of the other so that if something is needed the
other has it already there for you and vice versa and there is
cooperation that&rsquo;s not by, let&rsquo;s say, mutual agreement,
that&rsquo;s not by negotiation, not by discussing and coming to
conclusions and agreements about how to be &hellip; you just be together
spontaneously?

You see, I&rsquo;m trying to clarify something, especially since
we&rsquo;re less than a week away from the day that you would celebrate
my birth and could use that day for an even greater purpose to make some
commitment to joining and practicing the holy instant and allowing
empathy to occur which is the experience of Knowing which is a gift from
God&mdash;His Perspective given to you so that you might see everything
as it is, enlightened, in other words.

But, in addition to having a new experience of everything in its
actuality, in its beauty, in its primitive perfection, there is this
thing called, &ldquo;being joined.&rdquo; And it&rsquo;s not like being
at a dance and everybody is standing around in a circle against the wall
and everybody holds hands&mdash;it&rsquo;s not that kind of a sort of
joining by touch. It&rsquo;s a joining by involvement. It is a joining
in a dance, if you will, of cooperation that will begin and you will
decide not to bring it to a stop ever again.

Now, I will tell you something you can&rsquo;t understand. But I will
tell you this: When you join in this way with commitment, what is it
that you think the two of you might do together? What mutual activity
would you engage in?

Well I will tell you, that you will engage in observing Creation
occurring. You will participate together &hellip; how can I put it
&hellip; energetically? &hellip; See, there are inadequate words for it.
But you might say, it would be like the two of you being near the crest
of a mountain, the crest of a hill, and you see lights off in the
distance over the hill and the two of you run to the top of the hill so
that you can see what glorious thing is happening that is causing this
light.

So, it&rsquo;s like the two of you joined together in running to the top
of the hill, the two of you joined in mutual anticipation, the two of
you joined in consciously revering and loving and being interested in
the same things &hellip; do this thing, of observing Creation.

Now, I&rsquo;m aware that&rsquo;s totally inadequate to give you reason
to make commitment today or next Friday to the holy instant. But, well,
there was something Paul heard during the last week: A sentence that
said, &ldquo;If it&rsquo;s of any value, let it change you.&rdquo; And
he thought immediately of the Course &hellip; if it&rsquo;s of any
value, let it change you. You see, it isn&rsquo;t something here to
read and to grasp intellectually and to, you know, savor the little
morsels of truth that you glean from it here and there.

It&rsquo;s here to change you. It&rsquo;s here to inspire you to do
something you haven&rsquo;t been doing. Because what you have been doing
amounts to being asleep and missing out on the fulfillment and the
wholeness of Creation as it actually is confronting you but which you
are misinterpreting as a physical world and universe, and blinding
yourself by those definitions to its glory.

Now, you deserve not to be alone. You need not to be alone. You need to
be free of the experience of loneliness. You also need to be free of
living life as though you&rsquo;re just staying one jump ahead of
failure, one jump ahead of tragedy, one jump ahead of lack.

I&rsquo;m telling you that the practice of the holy instant which
provides the environment in which empathy can occur which amounts to
Revelation&mdash;the Revelation of Knowing the truth, the clarity that
God gives you, involves you becoming joined with others.

In running to the crest of the hill to experience the glory of Creation
that&rsquo;s occurring there &hellip; there &hellip; there &hellip; .
there, everywhere, it&rsquo;s an involvement, it&rsquo;s not a
loneliness anymore, and you don&rsquo;t &ldquo;develop&rdquo; this
intimacy with another who you can enjoy Creation with together. It
isn&rsquo;t for the purpose of gleaning truths from that other one so
that you can&mdash;in this other place where the Kingdom of Heaven looks
like we&rsquo;re all a physical world and universe&mdash;manage to
manipulate things better than you&rsquo;ve ever done before so that you
can be more secure and safer than ever before and therefore experience a
sense of relief and be able to take a deep breath for a little bit at
least, before you have to start protecting yourself again. You see?

If it&rsquo;s valuable, if it means something, let it change you, let it
move you into an involvement that will become a forever involvement of
awe, shared, not just with your guide but with all of the Brotherhood.
But you know what? You&rsquo;ve got to take it one step at a time. And
so you have to start out practicing the holy instant with the Brother
who&rsquo;s next to you. You have to practice it by using your Brother
as the reason for turning to the Holy Spirit. In other words, turning
within to that which is nothing more than your right Mind or, I&rsquo;m
going to say, turning within to me or turning within to the Father and
abandoning your privacy and your love of authority&mdash;independent
authority.

You won&rsquo;t be able to join with the whole Brotherhood. But the Holy
Spirit, which is nothing more than your right Mind, has one goal only.
And that is to reunite the little part or your mind, your infinite mind
that you are identifying as you, with the totality of your Mind that
constitutes You. Because that experience of your Mind is the experience
of the Presence of God being all there is of You. And there&rsquo;s that
intimacy again. And you want to hang out there in that intimacy so that
God doesn&rsquo;t have to say: &ldquo;Hello &hellip; h-e-l-l-o &hellip;
anybody home?&rdquo; You see?

You want to hang out there with God because that&rsquo;s where the true
experience of Creation is available to you. And you want to hang out
with God with your Brothers and Sisters with whom you can share as
though you are all mutually running to the crest of the hill to see the
glory of God that&rsquo;s occurring&mdash;an infinite joined experience
where you all feel each other having the same motives and the same
desires and the same capacity to embrace Creation infinitely.

Now that is not understandable to you. But I know that it&rsquo;s
understandable to you that there can be One of the Brotherhood that you
could have an intimate experience with and it would be easier to have an
intimate experience with One than an infinite number. And so
that&rsquo;s why you have a Guide. That&rsquo;s why you have a Guide
who&rsquo;s been assigned to you for the sole purpose of supporting you
and nudging and pushing and gently coercing you without overriding your
will, so that you may, through the use of your will, abandon your
insistence upon being private and independent authority and joining once
again so that you may return to your sanity and your joy and your
abundance and your fulfillment, and on and on and on.

So, you know, don&rsquo;t wait until Christmas Day to try to talk to me.
Put forth the effort now even while you&rsquo;re hearing me speak
through Paul&rsquo;s mouth, because I can answer you while I&rsquo;m
speaking through his mouth&mdash;it&rsquo;s easy.

Now, I&rsquo;m trying to convey to you that you exist in the middle of
the Kingdom of Heaven. You exist in the middle of the awesome, even
though you look at it and say it&rsquo;s just a material world and
universe. Nevertheless, you stand in the middle of that which is awesome
and its awesomeness awaits your willingness to see it and let it
register with you.

There&rsquo;s incredible reason for hope. There is incredible reason
for reaching for the unknown, for reaching for unreasonable good and
letting it happen and letting it change you, letting it cause you to be
with everything in a new way.

And I&rsquo;ve talked about joining with your Guide or the Holy Spirit
or God. You know what? You can join with a flower. You can join with a
lampshade. If something is going on that you&rsquo;re experiencing, it
has Meaning&mdash;it has divine Meaning. And it would love to join with
you in the true experience of what it is and the true experience of the
relationship that you have&mdash;the relationship you have with the
lampshade, because you certainly have a relationship with the lampshade.
You see?

Now this may sound a little silly, but you know what? The lampshade
would love to run to the top of the hill with you to see the glory of
God that&rsquo;s going on over the crest of the hill. There isn&rsquo;t
anything in all of Creation, there isn&rsquo;t anything in your
experience that doesn&rsquo;t wish to join in the conscious appreciation
of its Source&mdash;God.

I&rsquo;m saying that there&rsquo;s a living true relationship that
exists between you and everything, a relationship of involvement like
running to see the glory, anticipating seeing the glory&mdash;nothing
passive, nothing where you just sort of pass information between each
other for another reason, not because you really like each other but
because you&rsquo;re convenient and might be able to help. It&rsquo;s
more than that. It is a marvelous involvement of joined purpose that
none of you figured out or calculated or negotiated&mdash;which would,
of course, mean that you would have to be willing to renegotiate and
refigure because, of course, you don&rsquo;t want things to get dull, so
you have to keep things unsettled and renewed.

The purpose of your Being is in you already. And it moves spontaneously.
It moves in all of you spontaneously and therefore, moves in harmony.
This movement in all of you is in perfect harmony with everyone of
you&mdash;all of the Brotherhood. And it&rsquo;s experienceable as a
togetherness.

I&rsquo;ve used the word &ldquo;family&rdquo; before to try to convey to
you this non-calculated experience&mdash;this experience that has
nothing to do with figuring things out or intellectual
processes&mdash;because it&rsquo;s an experience of intimacy, of
infinite incredibly joyous involvement.

So, let&rsquo;s go into the book.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*True Empathy*[^1]

True empathy is of Him Who knows what it is.
</div>

Which at this point, as far as you&rsquo;re concerned, is the Holy
Spirit&mdash;it&rsquo;s not You yet.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
True empathy is of Him Who knows what it is. You will learn His
interpretation of it if you let Him use your capacity for strength, and
not for weakness.
</div>

Okay, so here&rsquo;s a case where the holy instant is called for
&hellip; why? So that you can shut up and listen for Him who knows what
true empathy is, to teach it to you because you don&rsquo;t know what it
is yet. An involvement, but not just a teacher/student involvement,
where the student goes from home to school and the teacher teaches him
things and the student goes back home to a different environment and has
no association with the teacher until the next day. No. This involvement
is you learning how not to be alone by virtue of asking and listening
for an answer and getting an answer. The getting of the answer is not
the point. The point is the time you spend together and in that act,
learning what it means not to be alone, so it&rsquo;s easier for you to
choose to abandon the thrill you thought you were getting from being
alone. The learning is in the involvement while you&rsquo;re being
taught. The learning is in the not being alone as opposed to being in
the orphanage and suffering.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; will not desert you, but be sure that you desert not him.
</div>

Well, the simple fact is, you will desert him. You&rsquo;re not used to
giving your attention there and staying with it. You&rsquo;re used to
worrying, you&rsquo;re used to being afraid, you&rsquo;re used to being
on alert to protect yourself against whatever is biting at your heels.
You see? And so you will desert him and you&rsquo;ll have to remember,
&ldquo;Oh, I lost the connection. Oh, I lost the joining. I&rsquo;m
alone and I don&rsquo;t need to be. I&rsquo;m going to bring my
attention back to that which can teach me what empathy really is, as
well as what all the rest of truth is.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Humility is strength in this sense only; to recognize and accept the
fact that you do not know is to recognize and accept the fact that He
does know.
</div>

Well, it&rsquo;s simple. You know what? You won&rsquo;t be willing to
adopt this crazy idea that you &ldquo;don&rsquo;t know&rdquo; if there
isn&rsquo;t anybody that knows at all, because that will really put you
in a black hole. But when you learn that the Holy Spirit does know, then
you can dare to accept the premise that you don&rsquo;t know, because
that will not cause you to be abandoned to oblivion. It will allow you
to listen for the truth to be revealed because you know someone is there
to reveal it to you. And it will save you rather than cause you to be
lost.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You are not sure that He will do His part because you have never yet
done yours completely.
</div>

It&rsquo;s hard to have faith that someone will do something that you
can&rsquo;t bring yourself to do yet. If you can&rsquo;t bring yourself
to do it, it&rsquo;s hard to believe that anyone else can or will.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You will not know how to respond to what you do not understand. Be
tempted not in this&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; now this, you have to be careful here to read this in its
meaning.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You will not know how to respond to what you do not understand.
</div>

What that means is, first of all, what you do not understand is what you
cannot understand. You cannot understand that this is a material world
and universe. You cannot understand that you&rsquo;re an orphan. You
cannot understand that your brothers and sisters are orphans, and you
cannot understand that they are undependable because they have no
dependable, underlying, grounded Source of their Being.

What is not understandable is that there is everything to fear. That
isn&rsquo;t something you can understand &hellip; why? Because all of
those things are not the truth, they are beliefs that you are
entertaining and maintaining and reasserting because you haven&rsquo;t
known who your Are.

But I&rsquo;m teaching you who you Are. And the Holy Spirit&mdash;that
which is nothing more than your right Mind&mdash;is teaching you what
you Are. So you&rsquo;re getting confirmation to what I&rsquo;m saying
from within, no matter how reluctantly you&rsquo;re willing to embrace
it.

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You will not know how to respond to what you do not understand.
</div>

You never have known how. And that is part of what has caused you to
constantly feel insecure. You have tried to understand the
un-understandable. You have tried to understand illusion.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Be tempted not in this, and yield not to the ego&rsquo;s triumphant use
of empathy for its glory.
</div>

You see, you&rsquo;re constantly tempted to come to conclusions about
what everything means based on the idea that you&rsquo;re just a
physical organism in the chain of evolution&mdash;a fluke of nature.

So you&rsquo;re constantly tempted to come to your own conclusions using
your best reasoning without ever shutting up long enough to inquire of
That which can answer you with the truth, so that you might learn what
the truth is and in the process of doing that, slowly shift from, or
maybe faster, shifting from your confidence in your own capacity to do
what will actually keep you ignorant longer.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Be tempted not in this, and yield not to the ego&rsquo;s triumphant use
of empathy for its glory.
</div>

You see? And we started out by talking of the ways the ego uses empathy
for control and self-protection and so on.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The triumph of weakness is not what you would offer to a brother.
</div>

You know &hellip; what&rsquo;s the triumph of weakness? It&rsquo;s when
you have asserted yourself based on your own best judgments as an orphan
that you think you are and managing somehow to bring about a good affect
that other people recognize as beneficial to them&mdash;something
you&rsquo;ve done without ever being joined, without ever having made
connection with that in you which knows the truth. You see?
That&rsquo;s the ego&rsquo;s triumphant use of empathy for its glory.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Be tempted not in this, and yield not to the ego&rsquo;s triumphant use
of empathy for its glory.

The triumph of weakness is not what you would offer to a brother. And
yet you know no triumph but this. This is not knowledge, and the form of
empathy that would bring this about is so distorted that it would
imprison what it would release.
</div>

You see? The form of empathy that&rsquo;s used for self-protection keeps
you clearly in your mind as a vulnerable solitary thing in the middle of
a bunch of other solitary things that are undependable. And if
so&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; it would imprison what it would release.
</div>

You use the empathy to get release, but it just reconfirms the call for
release.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The unredeemed cannot redeem&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that&rsquo;s like saying the uneducated cannot make clear, the
confused cannot express clarity.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The unredeemed cannot redeem, yet they have a Redeemer. Attempt to teach
Him not. You are the learner; He the Teacher. Do not confuse your role
with His, for this will never bring peace to anyone.
</div>

So let&rsquo;s be very clear here. We&rsquo;re talking about your
letting yourself into a profound experience of intimacy, in which you
join in mutual intent, in mutual action, you might say, where neither
one of you are attempting to behave independently, but especially you
are not attempting to behave independently because you need the influx
of what your Brother Knows that he can reveal to you that you
don&rsquo;t know yet.

And so part of the dance that you&rsquo;re doing here, part of the
intimacy here, involves your being willing to completely release
authority. And this isn&rsquo;t easy for you to do. But, here&rsquo;s
one of those valuable things that because it&rsquo;s valuable, let it
change you.

Ultimately, you will not express authority. You will not be an
&ldquo;I&rdquo; among &ldquo;I&rsquo;s,&rdquo; you will have shifted to
a state of &ldquo;us&rdquo; and &ldquo;we,&rdquo; where we join together
in this spontaneous appreciation of Creation. Because authority will not
remain once you let yourself be changed and you experience yourself as
the holy Son of God. It is reasonable and valuable for you to be willing
to abandon it now in the first stages of your involvement with your
Teacher&mdash;One who is your Teacher only temporarily until you decide
not to practice loss of memory, ignorance.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The unredeemed cannot redeem, yet they have a Redeemer.
</div>

You have a Redeemer.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Attempt to teach Him not. You are the learner; He the Teacher. Do not
confuse your role with His, for this will never bring peace to anyone.
Offer your empathy to Him&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; wish to feel with Him. Feeling with Him is like the mutual
running to the crest of the hill to see the glory of God, to understand
the truth more clearly, but not by yourself and not because a separate
entity has relayed the information to you, but because the two of you
together are allowing it to be a mutual conscious experience of unity
that does not destroy your individuality.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Offer your empathy to Him, for it is his perception and his strength
that you would share. And let Him offer you His strength and His
perception, to be shared through you.

The meaning of love is lost in any relationship which looks to weakness,
and hopes to find love there.
</div>

Any relationship that looks to weakness, and hopes to find love there is
one that occurs in a context of privacy, independence, aloneness,
loneliness, the orphan mentality, and truth is not to be found there,
and your being changed is not to be found there, and you Awakening is
not to be found there.

But you, celebrating next Friday of my Birthday by looking to the past
and remembering this marvelous thing that happened then, and removing
yourself from the present and not being available to me next
Friday&mdash;that&rsquo;s a matter of looking to weakness.

Weakness is the state of being when joining is absent. It&rsquo;s
simple.

I want you to understand that when I&rsquo;m talking to you about
joining with the Holy Spirit or with your Brother or with the Father,
I&rsquo;m talking about an act that amounts to an experience of
overwhelming proportions, of incredible proportions, involving
incredible involvement of a mutual infinite Movement in which everyone
involved in that Movement feels everyone else&rsquo;s involvement with
him or her in looking to see the glory of God that is occurring and
attracting everyone&rsquo;s attention, and by giving that attention to
it, participating in it by being the acknowledgement of it, because no
one is running back to the orphanage with all the news about the
Movement of Creation, or running back to the orphanage to function
better there because of everything that was gleaned from the direct
experience of Creation. You see?

It amounts to ending up being finished with doing anything in the
orphanage or believing anything about being orphans, or of fear and
guilt&mdash;the two partners&mdash;and all the bullshit we&rsquo;ve been
reading about that has to do with the ego state of being that is an
illusion. It&rsquo;s total fraud.

So Chapter Sixteen is a wonderful chapter: The Forgiveness of Illusions.
And now you know that forgiveness of illusions is you abandoning them in
favor of an incredible involvement of being with all of your Brothers,
but One which you will start to allow yourself to have with just one: Me
or the Holy Spirit or the Father or maybe all three of us. But it will
start out simple.

I love you all. And I look forward to being with you next time. More
than that, I look forward to being with you frequently, more often,
because you are bringing your attention to me with, for lack of better
words, an inquiry because an inquiry starts an involvement, it is a
movement of involvement. It&rsquo;s a movement of desire. And every
desire includes within itself everything necessary for its fulfillment.

I gladly look forward to being with you next week.

[^1]: T16.1 True Empathy

