---
title: Aug 7, 2002
ref: T1.In Introduction
---

Good evening. Well, after having started this book with the last chapter, we
will go to the beginning, having a basis for understanding the book from the
beginning.

And we’ll start here. Ordinarily we read one paragraph at a time, and pass the
book on, but since that page is so short, if you’ll just read the whole page
starting there.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">

<p class="section-head">Introduction</p>

This is a course in miracles. It is a required course. Only the time you take
it is voluntary. Free will does not mean that you can establish the curriculum.
It means only that you can elect what you want to take at a given time. The
course does not aim at teaching the meaning of love, for that is beyond what
can be taught. It does aim, however, at removing the blocks to the awareness of
love’s presence, which is your natural inheritance. The opposite of love is
fear, but what is all-encompassing can have no opposite. 

This course can therefore be summed up very simply in this way:

Nothing real can be threatened. Nothing unreal exists.

Herein lies the peace of God.

</div>

Thank you. I am not going to comment on that but will allow it just to sit
with each of you. 

You will find that the meaning of the word “miracles” in the book, A Course in
Miracles, does not mean the practice of spiritual control over your experience
that results in the correction of the human condition through spiritual power.
It is not an act of great wonder, like walking on water or raising the dead or
healing the sick, although those are the things you are likely to see. But
those are not what constitute the miracle.

The miracle has to do with what we’ve been talking about while we were reading
Chapter 31. The miracle is the shift in consciousness that occurs when you
abandon the agreed-upon definitions, and you assume nothing, and you listen
deeply within after having inquired of God or the Holy Spirit or your Guide, to
know what is the truth here or the truth in a particular situation and letting
the clarity of the true answer in. This causes a shift, an inner shift, a
shift of perception. And as the perception shifts, your experience shifts and
you notice that there’s been a healing or you notice that a relationship has
been inspired with love once again, where it seemed to have been absent, and so
on.

So as we begin the first section here Chapter 1, The Meaning of Miracles
and the Principles of Miracles.

I want you to keep this in mind: That a miracle is a shift in consciousness, in
your consciousness that occurs as a result of being defenseless against, having
no defenses against the experience of God’s point of view. This can happen on
purpose as a result of becoming still, as a result of meditating, as a result
of consciously setting aside your best ideas, your best opinions, and so on,
and consciously listening for clarity. Or it can happen spontaneously in what
would be called an unguarded moment, which again is one of those moments when
there is no defense present, and then you have a sudden inspiration, a sudden
insight, a sudden shift of perception. And it is that shift of perception that
changes the way you see things that is the miracle.

So, let us begin with Principle Number[^1].

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[Miracle Principle #1]
{: .omit}

There is no order of difficulty in miracles. One is not “harder”
or “bigger” than another. They are all the same. All expressions of love are
maximal.

</div>

Ahh, so a miracle is a shift of perception in which you see something
truly, and the seeing of it as it Is constitutes Love expressed. And Love is
always maximal. Love is always uninhibited.

A miracle is a light bulb going on. It’s an, “Aha!” that occurs within you.
An, “Aha!” that is a response to an experience of clarification that reveals
the divinity of something in your world so that it transforms your perception
of the thing you’re looking at. And it also links it as an inner experience
with God, so that you know there’s an absolute relationship there, and that the
thing you are looking at about which you have a transformed perception has no
capacity to be there except as the expression of God—and that therefore it is
holy.

Okay, continue.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[Miracle Principle #2]
{: .omit}

Miracles as such do not matter. The only thing that matters is
their Source, Which is far beyond evaluation.
</div>

In other words, the transformation that you experience occurring in your world
because of your transformed vision is not what is significant, that Lazarus
came forth from the tomb was not what was significant. What was significant was
that Love revealed that he never died and simply uncovered that fact, so that
no one was having a lingering illusion going on in their mind blinding them to
his presence. What was significant was that it did in fact demonstrate that
there is a God, and it demonstrated that Lazarus was not separate from Him.
And my Love of the Father and of Lazarus was all it took in order for the
illusion of death to fade from everyone’s mind and therefore, from their vision
so that they saw him.

Continue.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">

[Miracle Principle #3]
{: .omit}

Miracles occur naturally as expressions of love. The
real miracle is the love that inspires them. In this sense everything
that comes from love is a miracle.

</div>

Indeed. You know that I’m constantly encouraging you to not join with each
other in your mutually-agreed-upon definitions of everything. And the reason
is, because when you are caught up in this mutual agreement, you have blocked
yourself from what I’m going to call the ever-present communication of God to
you. You’re in an ongoing state of ignoring that communication. And that
communication to you is a communication of Love because that is what God is.
And when that Love is not resisted or ignored by you, it fills you and blesses
you, transforming your vision, which therefore causes your world to look more
like the Kingdom of Heaven, because that’s what it’s been all along.

I invite Paul to let me respond to everything, which really means I invite him
to be joined with me constantly so that there will not only be miracles at
gatherings, and so that he won’t suffer the frustration of feeling separate
between gatherings, and mostly because doing so gives him practice at being
normal, divinely normal, which will speed up his remembrance of being Awake so
that he might own it once again. And the same thing applies to all of you.

To be stuck in the mutual agreements turns your existence into a uselessness,
and you miss the Joy of what is confronting you. You miss the Joy of the
Kingdom of Heaven that you’re right in the middle of. And you miss the
experience of your integrity because of what you Are and can never stop
being—the Presence of God in expression.

When you are joined, all that you can be is Love. And all that can follow that
are miracles.

Okay. Continue.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">

[Miracle Principle #4] 
{: .omit}

All miracles mean life, and God is the Giver of life.
His Voice will direct you very specifically.
</div>

Oh, I’m going to interrupt you.

All miracles mean life! Not an approximation of life &ndash; not 50% of
life &ndash; not just a little bit of life &ndash; not a rugged experience of life
&ndash; but life!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">

All miracles mean life, and God is the Giver of life.

</div>

Again, it’s what I was just saying, that when the shift in your awareness
occurs and you see something as it truly is, you recognize its inseparability
from God, which is, as I said, another way of recognizing or knowing, having an
experience of its holiness. And when I say “holiness,” I mean it is something
that inspires awe. It isn’t just something extra wonderful.

Okay, continue.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">

You will be told all you need to know.

</div>

His Voice will direct you very specifically, just as I do with Paul. And you
will be told all you need to know. Wow, what a support. What a thing to miss
out on just for the thrill of being able to make your own decisions without
having to check in with Daddy.

Continue,

<div markdown="1" class="well book">

[Miracle Principle #5]
{: .omit}

Miracles are habits, and should be involuntary. They
should not be under conscious control. Consciously selected miracles can
be misguided.

</div>

Indeed. And so this is one reason for often asking God or your Guide or the
Holy Spirit, “What do I need to know here?”, without assuming that you
know what you need to know or that you know what really needs to be addressed.

When you genuinely and undefendedly listen within for God to reveal His
perspective, you don’t know what in your consciousness is going to shift, which
is part of the wonderfulness of it, except that if you’ve been used to enjoying
a sense of control and a pride at having control, then the feeling is that if
you let the shift happen wherever it will, that it deprives you of something.
It deprives you of being able to say afterwards, “I made that happen.”

Miracles are never under your control because the shift in consciousness only
occurs when you are yielding to the Father’s will, when you are listening
beyond your habitual thought processes.

I’m going to read the next one.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">

[Miracle Principle #6]
{: .omit}

Miracles are natural. When they do not occur something
has gone wrong.

</div>

Well, first of all, that means that miracles aren’t special and miracles won’t
make you special. Miracles are, you might say, automatic. The shifts in
perception, the shifts in consciousness naturally and spontaneously occur when
you have an unguarded moment, an undefended moment. It is really that simple.

And when they do not occur and it says, “something has gone wrong,” it means
that they’re not occurring because you’re putting your mind to a use that is
not natural to it. And you’re attempting to be something that’s not natural to
you—an independent authorizer—instead of the willing observer of what God is
being, so that you might be able to be the acknowledgement of what God is being
and thereby glorify God. And by virtue of that experience of the revelation of
God to you, having who you Are truly revealed to you as well.

Continue.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">

[Miracle Principle #7]
{: .omit}

Miracles are everyone’s right, but purification is
necessary first.

</div>

Yes, yes, yes. Pur-if-i-ca-tion. Um-m, how many lifetimes have you been
pur-i-fy-ing yourselves? [audience laughter] And how many of you know
that it’s going to yet be a long time before you’re purified because
that’s what your spiritual book says, and because there are &ndash; as
in this book &ndash; 365 lessons. “Wow!  Well it’s at least going to
take 365 days for my purification. So I won’t look for it on the second
day. I won’t allow it because I’ve got to have my Pur-if-i-ca-tion.”

Purification is necessary. What does purification mean? It just means letting
go of that which isn’t a part of you. When you have a glass of pure water, you
have a glass of water that has nothing extraneous—to what water is—in it.
Well, all you need to do to purify yourself or your mind, is to abandon
thinking &ndash; is to stop thinking and start listening, to stop being an
authority and asking for help from some place other than your experience. You
see?

Purification is what happens when you reach out to God, and therefore your
presence isn’t so filled with your definition of yourself. It’s that simple.
So, when you see that&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">

… but purification is necessary first.

</div>

&hellip; don’t think, “Oh, my God! I won’t be able to do it” or, “I know it will
take a long time!”

Don’t let that word scare you. It just means&hellip; it means taking off the
thing you need the least. That’s all. Letting go of the thing that isn’t
useful. Letting go of what gets in the way of your experience of what you
could never have stopped being—which is the Presence of God—though, you might
say that you are the capacity to recognize, and therefore acknowledge God and
what God is Being, in other words, Creation and thereby glorify God, which is
an act of gratitude. Because when you see the truth, you are filled with
gratitude for it being true. Not true as opposed to false, but sheer truth,
simple truth, elicits gratitude. And in that gratitude, you are infilled with
what God is Being and you Wake up, meaning you see things as they Are. You see
the Kingdom of Heaven where you had been looking and saying, “It’s just the
world.”

Okay&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">

[Miracle Principle #8]
{: .omit}

Miracles are healing because they supply a lack; they
are performed by those who temporarily have more for those who
temporarily have less.

</div>

Isn’t that interesting? They’re supplied by those who temporarily have more,
except that the one who temporarily has more from his standpoint has less,
because there’s purification. And so there’s less of his definition of himself
in the way. There’s less of an authority present. There’s less of an
independent, causative agent present. And the supply of the lack to the one
who temporarily has less is actually going to one who thinks he has more,
because he still thinks he’s in charge. You see what I’m saying?

He still has himself on his mind as an authority, as someone to be in control,
as someone to practice defense against a polarized world that will get him if
he’s not prepared. He’s encumbered with definitions and concepts about himself
and about the world, which means he apparently has more there where he is than
what God is Being. You see? So it’s a paradox.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">

Miracles are healing because they supply a lack; they are performed by
those who temporarily have more…

</div>

&hellip; but actually have less, personally speaking&hellip; 

<div markdown="1" class="well book">

… for those who temporarily have less.

</div>

&hellip; but have more encumbrances, personally speaking. You see?

Waking up is really a discovery that you’re a lot less than you thought you
were. In fact, that everything that you thought you were isn’t part of you at
all. But, even though losing that may seem to be a significant loss, it’s just
a matter of discarding the thing you need the least. And what’s left
uncovered, what’s left revealed by the absence of the encumbrances, the extras,
is the Christ—You in your actuality, You in your reality, You in your
innocence, You in your purity that was never soiled, no matter what you
thought, You in your inviolability that’s incapable of being threatened and You
inseparable from the Whole, outside of which there is nothing that could oppose
you because there is no outside to Wholeness.

Continue.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">

I thought I understood it until I saw you before you were baptized… that
you were teaching, and so you were having less than the people that you
were teaching?

</div>

Anyone who is truly teaching because they have the Vision of God have less
personality, have less ego, you might say, and they are giving to those who
seem to still have a lot of ego. You see?

So, by your standards from your present frame of view, you can understand that
one who is standing with God has more than you have—more that matters—but
really has less than you have because he or she is not encumbered by the ego
beliefs and structures and concepts and mutual agreements and laws that the
commitment to those agreements are held to. You see?

Okay.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">

[Miracle Principle #9] 
{: .omit}

Miracles are a kind of exchange.

</div>

Ah, why do you think that is?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">

Give me a minute.

</div>

Anyone else, either?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">

Exchanging old ideas for new?

</div>

You said exchanging old ideas for new?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">

It’s just the way that it works. \
Joining. \
Joining. Thank you.

</div>

Indeed. Love is always an involvement. Love is always the recognition of the
reality of another—a brother, a sister, a tree, a dog, a cat, a bird. It’s an
exchange because there’s a recognition of what is Real in each other. You see?
It can’t happen in a vacuum. You can’t be the Presence of Love all by
yourself. A miracle cannot occur without involvement. How can Love find
expression if there is no object of your affection? So miracles are a kind of
exchange. “A kind of exchange?” Yes. It’s a kind of exchange because it’s
not really an exchange at all it’s really a recognition of Oneness. You
recognize yourself in your brother.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And that’s what you&hellip; when we’re in touch with our Guidance, that’s the
Communion, that’s the Oneness.
</div>

That’s right.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And that’s what we’re to do with each other, is find the Oneness. And we do.
And we know when we’re right on the beam with each other.
</div>


That’s right.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And it’s a good thing.
</div>

Continue&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Like all expressions of love, which are always miraculous in the true sense,
the exchange reverses the physical laws. 
</div>

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Because it’s Spirit?
</div>

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
They bring more love both to the giver and the receiver. 

[Repeat] They bring more love both to the giver and the receiver. 
</div>

It reverses what you would call physical laws because in the giving away, the
giver doesn’t lose.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
You benefited when your friend Lazarus was raised from the dead. Lazarus
benefited. And that’s what we’re talking about.
</div>

That’s correct. That’s correct&hellip; Just a moment&hellip; You will sometimes
hear it said that someone who is a psychic or who has a spiritual gift, if they
make the gift it will shorten their human life. You see? It takes something
which is expressing oneness and unity and blessing and saying that in making
that gift, it depletes the giver. You see? And it doesn’t. And it is very
important to see this.

All miracles mean Life! Not its opposite, a form of which would be called
depletion that opposes the nature of physical law, which is that if Paul gives
you a dollar, you are a dollar richer and he is a dollar poorer. If he gives
you his car, you now have the car and he doesn’t. You see? Now what were you
going to say?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
You were obviously moved by the Father to connect your Love. You said your
Love was all it took to raise Lazarus&hellip; I mean that wasn’t coming from any
sense of lack in you, like you missed your friend.
</div>

No. Remember I said it was my love for God and my love for Lazarus. My love
for God&hellip; my attentiveness was to God first. That provided me with His
Vision. And His Vision was an experience of the fact that Lazarus was not
dead. And that realization couldn’t help but be extended to Lazarus as he
appeared to be to everyone else, because that’s what the knowing was about.
That’s who the knowing or the clarity was about.

And so, it wasn’t because I missed him. It was because in not having any other
perspective than the Father’s, there was nothing else for me to see or
experience but Lazarus’ uninterrupted Life, which blessed him because he was
not at a point of gathering his vision about himself from his Father. So my
clear vision provided the environment in which Lazarus could recognize the
truth about himself as well, so that Lazarus came forth. I did not have to go
in there and bring him out, which I could have done. I could have helped him
further in the realization by going in and bringing him out. But he recognized
my vision of him and he came forth even though he was still wrapped up. It did
not inhibit him from moving out, behaving or being in a way inconsistent with
being dead. [laughter in voice] You see?

Missing someone states an already existing attitude or sense of loss, and
there’s no way there could be a miracle from a sense of loss.

That’s why whenever you are wanting to be a healing presence for another, you
cannot start with the way they appear to be at the moment. Because if you do
that, you’re lost yourself, or your loss [laugh]&hellip; your loss is established
for you. So no, never agree with the appearance and never agree with what a
brother or a sister says to you about their condition. You go to God, “What is
the truth here?” And, as well as listening for words—all of you—I encourage
you to be open to an experience of the truth about them.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I can see how the thread is weaving into everything with Gift. And I was
contemplating on what Raj said at the Leiston Abbey—which I mentioned to Paul
earlier today—about the purpose of sex, which was to identify the other’s
Wholeness to them. And it occurred to me that every interaction that we have
to expand on, that is to identify the other’s Wholeness to them. And that, if
that be the case, then there is nothing lacking in that moment between us. And
it said here that we temporarily give to those who temporarily have less, those
who temporarily have more, but the established bond, or the established
realization, is that we have it. We’re coming from a place of having, not a
place of not having.

Anyway, I mean I can see how this is really bringing all this&hellip; I mean it’s
not just in a certain situation. It applies to everything! When we interact
with each other, we are there to be&hellip; to identify the other’s Wholeness.
And that’s&hellip; that’s not money, marbles, to everything from what I’m getting
from this.
</div> 

That is absolutely correct. Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And it’s really thrilling because what it does is it establishes trust, a deep
knowing, a joy, safety. If I give, I know that I have and that you have, and
there’s no loss or there’s no maneuvering for a position, “Am I gonna get a
deal?” or “I’m going to have an advantage over you.” I mean, all that is gone.
</div> 

Of course.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Anyway, I just wanted to share that. Thank you.
</div> 

Yes. That, of course, will throw a great monkey wrench in business. We won’t
go there today.

Next&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[Miracle Principle #10]
{: .omit}

The use of miracles as spectacles to induce belief is a
misunderstanding of their purpose. 
</div> 

Yes. You see belief isn’t what’s wanted anyway. You are suffering from
beliefs. You believe it’s just the world. You believe you are a mortal. You
believe that physical bodies ultimately decay and die. These are all beliefs
which you frighten or comfort yourselves with. But all of your beliefs are
what are distracting you from the experience of Reality, from the experience of
what you really Are and what your brother or your sister really Is.

So, I’m not going around rendering great miracles to get you to believe
something, because that’s shifting one belief for another belief. Belief is
irrelevant. Experience is relevant. And experience comes when you manage to
one degree or another to set your beliefs aside. And it’s an inside job.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
That’s why you can’t just keep raising the dead. 
</div> 

Microphone.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I was just thinking when you were talking earlier, but you didn’t keep raising
more and more dead. You raised Lazarus, or that happened, and that was enough.
It didn’t need to keep happening, like you were trying to prove something.
</div> 

There were a couple of other indications&hellip; I mean a couple of other
situations where I did.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
But not dramatically.
</div> 

But mind you it wasn’t for&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Proving it.
</div> 

It wasn’t for&hellip; it wasn’t for the purpose of raising the dead. It was
always for the purpose of glorifying God. It was always for the purpose of, I
will say, impressing others with an awareness of God, not my capacity to
perform miracles. Always it was to inspire the clearer consciousness of the
actuality of God, because only that could change the lives of the observers.
You see?

Okay&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[Miracle Principle #11]
{: .omit}

Prayer is the medium of miracles. It is a means of
communication of the created with the Creator. Through prayer love is received,
and through miracles love is expressed. 
</div> 

There you go. Prayer is not asking something of God, but opening up to God so
that you might be filled with whatever He would reveal to you. Prayer, as I’ve
said before, is really a matter of saying “Yes” to God, not making demands of
God.

And when you say “Help,” when you reach out to God, when you temporarily
abandon self-reliance, when you abandon relying upon the self you think you are
and you say “Help” to God, you are saying, “You are welcome in here, God. You
are welcome to come in to me. I am saying ‘Yes’ to You. Not ‘Yes’ to what I
want from You. I am saying ‘Yes’ to You.”

And the shift of awareness, the shift of consciousness occurs, and your
experience and perception of the situation, or your brother or sister, changes
and healing transpires. Love is expressed. Love is impulsed by your
recognition of the truth of your brother. So your receipt of what the Father
gives that causes the shift of perception causes a spontaneous impulse of Love
from you to your brother in the clear acknowledgement of the truth about him
that has just been revealed to you. You see, that’s what it means.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[Miracle Principle #12]
{: .omit}

Miracles are thoughts. Thoughts can represent the lower or
bodily level of experience, or the higher or spiritual level of experience. One
makes the physical, and the other creates the spiritual. 
</div> 

Thoughts can represent the beliefs and concepts associated with the
mutually-agreed-upon definitions that all of you have committed yourselves to,
and it makes the Kingdom of Heaven look like nothing more than “the world.”

When, on the other hand, you abandon the mutually-agreed-upon definitions and
you relinquish your commitment or manage somehow to weaken your commitment to
it by reaching out beyond it, I’m going to say, it apparently creates the
spiritual. In actuality, it reveals the Kingdom of Heaven that has always been
there. It uncovers and reveals the spiritual. I want you to be clear on that
because this is not meant to imply that you are going to acquire a capacity to
create. That is very appealing to your ego, which you are not free of at the
moment, and we do not want to reinforce your ego.

Continue&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[Miracle Principle #13]
{: .omit}

Miracles are both beginnings and endings, and so they alter the
temporal order. They are always affirmations of rebirth, which seem to go back
but really go forward. They undo the past in the present, and thus release the
future.
</div> 

That might seem complicated but it is simplified in the last sentence.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
They undo the past in the present, and thus release the future. 
</div> 

And what that means is, it releases the future from the framework of your
mutually-agreed-upon definitions that you otherwise would have held the future
to. Beginnings and endings, in the same sense that for every door that closes,
a door opens. It’s the ending of a belief and the beginning of clarity. It’s
the ending of being subject to the distress of being out of your mind and the
pleasure of experiencing your Sanity. You see? 

So it’s about beginnings and endings. Endings of things that weren’t real, and
beginnings of things that always have been Real, but which you had been
ignoring. And so, the beginnings are really a return to what you knew before
you joined in this exciting experience of mutually-agreed-upon definitions and
the distortions of the Kingdom of Heaven that they subjected you to.

Continue&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[Miracle Principle #14] 
{: .omit}

Miracles bear witness to truth. 
</div> 

Stop there.

Wow. That means they’re meaningful.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Miracles bear witness to truth. 
</div> 

You see Lazarus came forth. The truth that it bore witness to, was that life
is deathless. But the most significant truth of all was that it demonstrated
to those there that there really is a God, because these people knew me like
you know each other. And they did not have the belief that I, like them, had a
capacity to raise the dead—they knew it wasn’t a talent I had, because I was
just like them. Lazarus and his sisters were lifelong friends—we grew up
together. 

So, the miracle points to something bigger, they bear witness to the truth.

Continue.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
They are convincing because they arise from conviction. 
</div> 

And how is conviction arrived at? It’s arrived at by having set aside any
personal capacity you might think you have to accomplish something, and saying,
“Father, help. Father, show me the truth here.” And when you do that and stay
out of the way and don’t block the influx, the shift of perception occurs. And
what you find yourself experiencing, you can only describe as something that
you know from the tips of your toes. It is a knowing that is unalterable,
because truth recognized as truth is a recognition also of its unalterability.
And so, you find yourself spontaneously experiencing conviction about the truth
that you know.

So, miracles arise from conviction. Not conviction that you’ve drummed up with
great emotion. Not conviction that you have generated by being intense or
creating a sense of the strength of your physical presence. But conviction
that comes from actual experience, which is available to every single one of
you if you will just let God reveal the truth to you, by being curious in the
most mundane daily situations, about the most mundane things.

Continue.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Without conviction they deteriorate into magic, which is mindless and therefore
destructive; or rather, the uncreative use of mind. 
</div> 

Yes. And all that means is, what happens when you’re engaged in the practice
of and the modification of the updating of your mutually-agreed-upon
definitions. It is a&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Like shamans. That shamanism stuff, too.
</div> 

Yes. However, don’t misunderstand. There are those who truly are shaman
because they truly are listening beyond their best judgments and their best
concepts. And it is because of them that the word “shaman” came into
existence. It is meant to identify conscious Christs.

But, if conviction is not arrived at through the experience of revelation,
then, as it says, the miracle of it deteriorates into magic. And so, there are
what are called shamans, who think they caught the gist of a holy experience
and without the conviction that accompanied the actual recognition of the
Holiness of something, they began to practice a way of looking at things, a way
of thinking about things, but it is all coming from the head.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Same with the gurus and the Baba’s.
</div> 

Sure.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I remember that they had to be registered finally. And then they [laugh]&hellip;
they had to go and register.
</div> 

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And the Geishas in Japan, too.
</div> 

Yes. So&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Without conviction they deteriorate into magic, which is mindless and therefore
destructive; or rather, the uncreative use of mind. 
</div> 
 
Which is actually&hellip; the uncreative use of mind is the non-use of mind.
When you are using your mind to indulge in a daydream, you are using your mind
to ignore what’s really going on. That is the uncreative use of mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And that’s what most of us are doing most of the time.
</div> 

Yes. But discovering that you have another choice.

This is a perfect breaking point. This is a long section, and we will continue
with this next week. This is good.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Thanks.
</div> 

You are welcome.

[^1]: ACIM 2nd Edition: T1.In Introduction

