---
title: Aug 28, 2002
ref: T1.I Principles of Miracles, Principle 33
---

Now, before we begin I would like to make a simple point. We are in the
process of reading a rather interesting book—a book whose intent is to be
transformational. But I want everyone to know that the greatest disservice you
can do to yourselves is to try to find a book or a teaching or a thought
system, that is so precise and consistent and tight in its explanation of
things that you might feel that all you had to do was to learn how to be as
precise as the book is, or to live the principles of the thought system
precisely in order to Wake up. Why? Because in doing that you would neglect
to be open to the conscious experience of the Living Presence of God and the
Movement of Creation Itself.

This is a very important point. It’s ultimately important. Whatever you read
in this book should, if nothing else, be causing you to become open to the
intimate and immediate experience of God, which I promise you is not going to
conform to any thought system, because what God is being is forever new. Those
who would look for a thought system, precise and consistent in the layout of
its principles, who grab onto it, are in an act of self-protection against the
actual experience of God, because they are looking for something unchangeable,
something absolutely dependably unchanging. And that’s not what the experience
of Creation is. And to become open to the Living experience of the Living God
is going to be, as far as the ego is concerned, an insecure experience.
Undependable because unpredictable.

Now, we’ve been reading about miracles and we’ve been finding out that miracles
are a sudden shift of perception, which occurs when you are not reinforcing
your current mindsets, your current mutually-agreed-upon definitions, and in a
sense, are not reinforcing your defenses. And in the absence of those
defenses, [snaps fingers] a light bulb can go on, an “Aha!” can occur, a
realization that constitutes a shift of perception that changes the way you are
seeing and experiencing everything.

A miracle isn’t something you arrive at through reason or the intellect. It is
as though a new way of seeing things is inserted into your awareness, which
transforms your awareness. And it’s unexpected. 

Now, if anyone thinks they know what a miracle is going to look like or how it
ought to appear, it’s going to be a long time before they experience one.
Because when the actual miracle occurs they’ll say, “That wasn’t a miracle,” or
their confidence as to what a miracle is, will cause them not even to see it
when it occurs. 

You have to be willing to let yourself become vulnerable, undefended,
unprotected if anything new is going to penetrate your preconceptions. It’s
simple.

So, with that in mind, let’s begin with Principle #33.

And I’m going to invite everyone not to fiddle with this end of the microphone,
since it got turned off halfway through the gathering last meeting. [audience
dismay] So hold the mic up here and don’t fiddle down here.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[Miracle Principle #33]
{: .omit}

Miracles honor you because you are lovable. They dispel
illusions about yourself and perceive the light in you. They thus atone for
your errors by freeing you from your nightmares. By releasing your mind from
the imprisonment of your illusions, they restore your sanity.[^1]
</div> 

That pretty well restates everything that we have been learning so far.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Miracles honor you because you are lovable.
</div> 

The interesting thing is that miracles reveal your lovableness to you. And in
uncovering your lovableness to you, they honor you. In a way that statement is
sort of like saying, “water is wet.” Miracles honor you because you are
lovable. Miracles honor you because they uncover what you really Are, when you
didn’t know that’s what you really Were. That’s what dispels the illusions
about yourself.

Let us go on to the next Principle.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[Miracle Principle #34] 
{: .omit}

Miracles restore the mind to its fullness. By atoning for lack
they establish perfect protection. The spirit’s strength leaves no room for
intrusions. 

[Repeats] The spirit’s strength&hellip;
</div> 

Spirit is substance. Substance is spirit. The substance of everything you see
in this room is spirit. The substance of you is spirit. The substance of your
very Being is spirit.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Miracles restore the mind to its fullness. 
</div> 

They reveal its indivisibility. They reveal its innocence. They reveal its
all-inclusiveness.

By uncovering the absence of lack, they establish perfect protection. Not in
the sense of encircling you with tanks and enemy aircraft guns and a better
wall of defense, but they establish perfect protection by uncovering to you
that you’re naturally invulnerable—that vulnerability is nonexistent. So they
establish perfect protection by uncovering the fact that you are not in need of
protection, because there is nothing unlike you to be defended against.

And the spirit’s strength&hellip; the strength of the substance of your Being
leaves no room for intrusions. When the miracle establishes in you the truth
of you as your conscious experience, there simply is no room for the intrusion
of anything and there is the conscious realization that there is nothing unlike
you that can intrude upon you. And so you can be at perfect peace.

Continue&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[Miracle Principle #35] 
{: .omit}

Miracles are expressions of love, but they may not always have
observable effects. 
</div> 

They may not always have observable effects, but they will always have effects.
Love is always transformational, but the transformation isn’t always visible.
When the miracle is a shift of perception about the Kingdom of Heaven, that you
are calling “the world,” then you are going to find what you would call visible
evidence of a miracle. You will find visible, tangible transformation—the
disappearance of the evidence of disease or injury, the disappearance of a
blight on a complete forest, the closing of the holes in the ozone, the
purification of your water systems without a mechanical process being employed.

Because no matter how screwed up your world appears to have become through
thoughtlessness, Creation hasn’t for a moment been altered. And when a shift
in perception occurs, the changes to Creation that it looked like man created,
will no longer appear to be present to be disturbed by. And it can happen
instantaneously. You can’t have a sudden shift of perception without
perception being changed. So be careful not to argue against, for any reason,
the manifest, evident, tangible embodiment, we’ll say, of the Kingdom of Heaven
where “the world” seemed to be. This is very important.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
May I ask a question about the practicability of manifesting? For instance, if
there’s&hellip; right now I’m confronted with a soft spot in my driveway, okay,
that I’m talking about digging up and reworking. Okay. Is it practical for me
to expect a miracle—for me to wake up one morning and go out there and the
driveway to be totally repaired all by itself?
</div> 

It’s very practical to have that expectation. But, you’re not here to
designate what the miracle is going to be.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Ah, I see. I see. I see. So&hellip;
</div> 

The miracle may be someone coming up to your door saying, “I’ve lost my&hellip; I
have a family. I’m not able to find work. Do you have anything I can help you
with?”

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I see. So my job is to see God expressing Love in the form of Creation. And
then as I experience that in what I see all around me, things begin to happen.
</div> 

That is correct.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And I don’t&hellip; I don’t choose if it’s my teeth, or a driveway, or whatever,
that are healed.
</div> 

That is correct.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I see. I see.
</div> 

You cannot be the manifestor of a miracle. 

However, something that all of you hate to look at are your needs. You are
insulted by being needy. And so you do everything you can—create employment
for yourselves, create a roof over your head—so that your needs are apparently
met and you don’t have to be conscious of the fact that the needs are still
present. Do you see what I’m saying? You cover up the fact that you need
things by arranging your experience so that you’re not confronted by the need.
In other words, you need to eat, so you get a job so you can buy the groceries
so you can eat, and you eat well every day and you become unconscious of the
fact that you need to eat. 

The ego insists upon your being unconscious of your needs, because if you were
conscious of your needs, you would know that you needed help in order for them
to be met and you would reach out to God.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
What was the dynamics with Virginia as far as her healing was concerned?
</div> 

There was a need. There was discomfort. There was decay in her teeth. And
she could not ignore it. And she decided not to go to the dentist, which some
people would say was ignoring the situation. But that isn’t all she did. She
prayed. She had no idea how the answer might come, but she prayed humbly, and
she didn’t fret about it. She prayed and she let it be. And she prayed and
let it be. And in the absence of manipulation, but the presence of her
awareness of the need so that she continued to ask, the need was met—or up to
this point, partially met. And I encourage you to expect more.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I’m trying to.
</div> 

Indeed.

Now my point is that although you cannot determine what the miracle will be, if
you will pay attention to your needs, you will find your needs always bringing
your attention to the point where Movement is going to occur. And in honoring
the need and acknowledging it, and knowing that there can be no unmet need,
your attention is where the miracle is about to happen, if I may put it that
way. And by having your attention there, without conscious intent to make
something happen, to know exactly what it is you need to ask for help about,
you bring yourself into alignment for a miracle, which you will discover
shortly is referred to as miracle-readiness.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
In places where they’re starving, like Africa, Asia, there’s definitely the
need and those folks definitely have their attention on that need. But
they&hellip; there’s not expectation and consciousness. Is that why that
situation continues?
</div> 

The problem is that they think that they are physical beings living in a
physical world where abundance and lack are determined by physical
forces—weather conditions, conditions of the land, and politics. And they have
convinced themselves that these are the factors that govern their situation and
their lack. And they have a mutually-agreed-upon definition that they’re all
binding each other with by continuing to energize it through reaffirming it
specifically by mutually complaining about the injustice of it and never for a
moment saying, “God, help.”

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
It’s more, “Why is God doing this to me?” which doesn’t help at all.
</div> 

That is right. And the “Why is God doing this to me?” is part of the liturgy of
the mutually-agreed-upon definitions that they are committed to.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Thank you.
</div> 

Did you have a question?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
In my own activity that I conduct, would it be&hellip; Remember I used to have a
prayer list and I used to work off of that. I always prayed to Jesus. But is
that&hellip; some way should I integrate acknowledging my needs as part of what I
do, as part of when I become still and conscious and open up to guidance and
awareness? Should I make that a part of that activity? Consciously going
through, like I know I need this and&hellip;
</div> 

It would be an excellent thing to do. If you did it well, you would find that
a lot of what you think are your needs are wants, or are things that you have
determined are what will answer the problem. Needs themselves are very
basic—like not hurting&hellip; not being hungry&hellip; not being ill&hellip; not
suffering&hellip; like having an object of your affection is a need&hellip; being
able to extend affection is a need.

You will usually be able to find out what your needs are by paying attention to
where you’re uncomfortable. Because where you’re uncomfortable are the places
where you’re blocking or resisting being conscious of the truth, because you
have a preference of your own. So your needs—your need not to hurt—when you
pay attention to it, brings you to a realization of what you need in order not
to hurt. And when you find where you are uncomfortable, and you ask for
help—without trying to figure out the answer for yourself—the Father or the
Holy Spirit or your Guide or myself will help you realize what will answer the
need so that you can choose again. Choose again, instead of what you had
committed to.

So, if someone were to ask you right now, “What do you need?” you would list
off all the things that you don’t have. But you wouldn’t list all the things
that you do have. You would not see them as a need because you have them. And
yet there is need there that is met. 

And so, I guess what I’m trying to convey to you is that you are always needy.
As I also said, that is humiliating to the ego. But in the realization that
you are needy, you realize that you cannot afford to be alone. And if you
can’t afford to be alone, then your bottom line need is to reach out and say,
“Help.” Why? Because at the bottom line that’s what breaks the isolation, and
at the bottom line that is what begins to disintegrate the dream—the illusion
of separation.

It’s very difficult to be haughty when you’re needy. Humility is recognizing
that you’re needy and not objecting to it, not resisting it.

“In my defenselessness my safety lies.” In my neediness my fulfillment lies.
In my humility God can reach me. In the absence of arrogance, the Father’s
will for me cannot help but register with me. And when it registers with me
and I Wake up, I will realize that being Awake does not annihilate or do away
with my neediness, and does not raise me up into a position equal with God as a
co-creator. But rather what it does is it makes me realize that I of myself
can do nothing.

And the way I become co-creator with God is by letting Him move through me.
It’s only in this way that you can discover that the Presence of God moving as
Creation is not an arrogant act, is not a willful act. It’s not an act of
power. It’s just God Being. And every aspect of the Infinite Being of God is
full of integrity just because God is indivisible. And His Movement of
Creation is inseparable from you because you are no longer claiming some
personal, private position in some imagined divine organization chart.

Okay&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Are you needy? I mean as a&hellip;
</div> 

Absolutely. I have said to Paul that he must stand as the door. You will find
references in the Bible where it says, “Lift up your heads all ye gates, and
lift up your heads all ye doors.” Paul stands as the door, you might say,
letting me through. I am standing as the door letting God through. I am not
standing here in some position of authority. I’m standing here in an act of
obedience and cooperation without the insertion of any personal willfulness on
my part, and letting God be Love expressed, extended, embracing, including you
and everything that exists.

Over here.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Is that where we each experience Joy in the Movement of Love?
</div> 

Absolutely. And you all have those experiences now and then. It is not
necessary for you to become absolutely totally defenseless in order for God’s
Love to find expression through you and bless your fellowman. It’s just that
it doesn’t happen very often because there’s an immediate reassertion of your
right to be yourself on your own, on your terms, for your purposes against
someone else.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I’m certainly familiar with that.
</div> 

I am not picking on you here.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I understand.
</div> 

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Thank you. Thank you very much
</div> 

You are welcome.

Let us continue&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[Miracle Principle #36] 
{: .omit}

Miracles are examples of right thinking, aligning your
perceptions with truth as God created it. 
</div> 

This is pretty obvious at this point, isn’t it? And it happens [snaps fingers]
spontaneously, not by design, not as a result of effort on your part. It
happens in the absence of effort. It happens in the moment of defenselessness.
It even happens in a moment of preoccupation with something outside yourself.
You see?

Let us continue&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[Miracle Principle #37] 
{: .omit}

A miracle is a correction introduced into false
thinking by me. It acts as a catalyst, breaking up erroneous perception and
reorganizing it properly. This places you under the Atonement principle, where
perception is healed. Until this has occurred, knowledge of the Divine Order
is impossible. 
</div> 

Well, let me make something perfectly clear. One of the most valuable elements
that can precipitate your ability to let the penetration of the miracle occur,
is the experience of need recognized together with the acceptance of your
incapacity to meet the need while the need yet remains to be met—while the need
still needs to be met. In other words, in the recognition of the need and an
acknowledgement that you can’t meet the need, the need does not disappear. It
remains pressing upon you the requirement for change to occur.

But when you acknowledge the presence of the need—stop denying it, stop
glossing it over and acknowledge the need, you might say, feel the pain—and
then fully realize that this is something you cannot deal with and you accept
that incapacity, the arrogance of thinking you do have the capacity to deal
with it fades and now you’re in a state of humility. And in the state of
humility, the absence of arrogance, the Father can reach you, I can reach you,
the Holy Spirit can reach you and uncover what is needed for correction,
through a shift of perception which you are quite capable of making—a shift
that you’re quite capable of making and one, which you do make because the
revelation of it is so clearly true to you. And then the pain is gone. The
distress is gone. The experience of need unmet is replaced by need met, but
not need annihilated.

Are you beginning to glimpse what I’m getting at? When need is met, it doesn’t
mean you’re no longer needy. It simply means that you as the direct Expression
of God can only be the full Expression of God when you’re not attempting to be
the expression of your will, of your best sense of yourself, of who you’ve been
taught you ought to be, and so on. As the direct Expression of God, all that
you are is derived from God. And when you yield to that, you find all your
needs met. The only need that you thought you had that isn’t met is that in
the act of yielding to God, you are not moved into a place of independence from
God where now you’re able to be independent perfectly. And so the need is met
without the need going away.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Arrogance&hellip; so arrogance is blocking this connection. And I come up
against it and I can’t quite see it. And I, of course, ask for help, but I
don’t really hear this fluttering of angel wings and all at once filled with
good feelings and connections, so I, you know, maybe I can’t even get in touch
with, you know, a real good solid connection. 

So I’ll listen to a tape and then maybe, you know, sometimes there’ll be like
rage creep in and I just have to just go and follow my breath and calm myself
down. Is this, I mean when this is going on, is this appropriate way to work
with this? Just like tenaciously stay after my peace the best that I can find
it—listening to a tape when I can’t hear you inside—every time I remember,
remember and go back, and I mean just stay at it. When it’s not working just
stay at it the best I can.
</div> 

That is correct.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And I am receiving help, even though it’s not exactly in the terms that I would&hellip;
there’s help all the time that I’m doing this. There’s support. 
</div> 

Always.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Always.
</div> 

In fact when you are headed in the wrong direction with great determination,
you are helped to get to the most difficult place the fastest. In other words,
you are helped for your illusion to be as uncomfortable as possible as quickly
as possible so that you will get to the point of choosing again more quickly.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yeah. Yeah, that’s it, isn’t it? The puppet strings are short.
</div> 

That is correct.

When you really allow yourself to feel the need, you will naturally find within
you the determination to sit with the need, rather than gloss it over, and give
your attention to the answer to the need without distraction, no matter how
long it takes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Steadfast.
</div> 

Indeed. Most of you say, “Well, I don’t really have time to give that kind of
attention to this or that.” And then you find yourself suddenly flat on your
back in bed, apparently ill. Now you say, “I can’t do anything else. I’m
unable to get up and go to work. I’m unable to attend to all of these other
things that I gave priority to. And you know what? Considering how I feel, my
getting clear about myself is about the most important thing I can think of.
My becoming clear about what my needs really are, is something I’m not going to
begin to be distracted from, because at the bottom line I need not to be faced
with the apparent option of ceasing to exist.” Of dying, in other words. Ah,
so here’s a need that’s ever present.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Your wants and your needs are getting clarified.
</div> 

That’s right. And mostly they’ll be getting clarified because you’re not able
to justify all of the usual distractions that keep you from being aware of your
need.

Now your need not to die is a misunderstanding. It’s a distortion of your need
to be aware that your Life is unalterable. It’s unalterable. It’s eternal.
It’s uninterruptible. Why or how? Because, God is being you, you’re not being
yourself. God is being you.

A sperm and an egg setting into motion a body is not what is keeping you in
existence, or making you. And most often when one arrives at basic moments
like this where one’s need is looked at squarely, when that happens one tends
to ask God for help. One tends to reach out. One tends to break the
isolation.

And when there is humility in that, when your personal helplessness is felt and
accepted, you don’t cease to exist. You don’t disappear. You are inspired by
the infilling of the Spirit of God. And boy, are you grateful. And you cry.
You cry because it’s all so simple and you see it. You cry because there is
joy. You cry because there is relief. And miraculously you get better. And
the better you get, the more you say, “Now I can get back to the things that
took precedence over my being aware of my need,” instead of staying in that
holy place of need and need met being inseparable.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I’m getting a lot of help to stay there without needing to get put in my
deathbed. I mean there’s&hellip; I just see now a lot of what’s been going on
the last week is just getting a lot of help.
</div> 

Indeed.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Not letting me get it. I don’t have to go to my deathbed to get that serious
about it. To get&hellip; just caring about getting back in touch.
</div> 

That is wonderfully true.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yeah.
</div> 

And all of these things I am saying are for you, but they are for all of you as
well.

This is me, Paul. Did you complete your&hellip; Who is reading?

 <div markdown="1" class="well person">
 I did and more. [talking to next reader] So you’re reading right there.
 </div> 

Had you completed that? Okay&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[Miracle Principle #38] 
{: .omit}

The Holy Spirit is the mechanism of miracles. He
recognizes both God’s creations and your illusions. He separates the true from
the false by His ability to perceive totally rather than selectively. 
</div> 

Indeed. You know the saying is you can’t solve the problem from the level of
the problem. And yet that’s all the ego does. By asking for help, you open
yourself up to the Holy Spirit. And what did I say the Holy Spirit was? The
Holy is your Divinity held in trust while you dally with the ego.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
That’s the table being what the table really is now. Right?
</div> 

Microphone.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
The Holy Spirit is the table being what the table is really now beyond my
perception of it, and the glass being what the glass is right now beyond my
perception of it.
</div> 

Well, the table and the glass being what they divinely Are right now, they are
being right now regardless of the Holy Spirit. They are what they are because
God is what is being It. The Holy Spirit is that which recognizes what it
really is as God is being It, and recognizes how you are perceiving it, and
then begins to close the gap between your misperception of it and what it
really Is by introducing the sudden shift of perception in your mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
The Holy Spirit’s doing my job while I’m asleep.
</div> 

The Holy Spirit is your divinity.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I mean, to recognize that Which Is Real, that’s what the Holy Spirit is&hellip;
that’s that activity.
</div> 

That is correct.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And that’s my job. That’s what I’m suppose to be doing is acknowledging What’s
Real in everything.
</div> 

Absolutely. But you can’t do it without asking for help. You can’t do it
without reaching outside of the boundaries of your current definition of
yourself, and therefore the boundaries of your current capabilities as you have
defined them or believe them to be.

Mind you, the table, the glass, the chairs, it’s all Reality going on as it
divinely is right now, but there is a gap between what It is and the way you’re
experiencing it, because of the conscious choice to determine on your own what
a thing means and stand in mutual agreement with another as to that definition.
That’s why I keep saying, the simplest way to break the illusion is to have
curiosity. Curiosity to see what a thing really Is, because that’s what
disentangles you—disengages you from your commitment.

Okay&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[Miracle Principle #39] 
{: .omit}

The miracle dissolves error because the Holy Spirit
identifies error as false or unreal. This is the same as saying that by
perceiving light, darkness automatically disappears. 
</div> 

Yes. What is unreal has no presence. What’s unreal is imagined, but has no
actual presence, any more than darkness is the presence of something
measurable. Light is the presence of something measurable. Darkness is the
absence of something measurable. So, in the shift of perception that occurs
that causes something that is unreal to be seen as actually unreal, it’s
obvious to you that’s there’s nothing there to occasion reaction, or defense,
or even any distraction from Reality.

It isn’t that it uncovers what is unreal so that then you can dispose of what
is unreal. It is not like the difference between the tares and the wheat,
which are two different kinds of Real things that are indistinguishable from
each other until a certain point in their development. Your commitment to your
determination to see things biased by your will causes you to see aspects of
the Kingdom of Heaven as different from what they are to you. But when the
involuntary shift of perception occurs where the unrealness of your creation,
of your biased perception of Reality is uncovered to you as not real, you’re
free of the misperception. You’re simply free of the misperception. And
there’s nothing there to deal with or dispose of, because where you were
looking and seeing a distortion of Reality, Reality now is uncovered and it
gets your attention. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[Miracle Principle #40] 
{: .omit}

The miracle acknowledges everyone as your brother and
mine. It is a way of perceiving the universal mark of God. 
</div> 

This we have already elaborated on for quite a few weeks. We will continue on
to the next.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[Miracle Principle #41] 
{: .omit}

Wholeness is the perceptual content of miracles. They
thus correct, or atone for, the faulty perception of lack. 

[Repeats] Wholeness is the perceptual content of miracles. 
</div> 

When the shift of perception occurs and you see something as it truly Is, you
discover that it’s far more than the simple object you thought it was, whether
it’s a wall, or whether it’s a toe, because you recognize the Presence of God
in it. You *recognize* God as the source and the substance of it.

The simplest thing then becomes awesome, literally, and as I have said before
you realize that the substance of it is Love and that it is radiating
Love—radiating Love that embraces you. And you also realize that this Love is
the very substance of you, and that you and it are engaged in what you might
call a mutual appreciation society, in a relationship of mutual Love. A Love,
which is not exclusively owned by either one of you, but is itself the clear
experience and the deep knowing that You and It are One. This is wholeness.
And it is a blissful experience beyond anything you might imagine.

I tell you this so that you might realize that when you’re being curious to see
what a thing really is, because you realize that you don’t know what it really
is, and you express this curiosity, you are priming yourself for an awesome
experience. Not just an intellectual “Aha!”

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I have a little bit of confusion here about wholeness and neediness. If we’re
always needy, then there’s the feeling that you’re not whole, that something’s
missing. So am I mixing terminology here?
</div> 

When the choice was made to have a point of view different from the
Father’s—just for the heck of it, just for the fun of it—you abandoned a union
in which the experience of wholeness that I just described was the experience
of Being. The fact that you weren’t God but that God was all there was of you
was not an experience of neediness, because there was no thought of having a
different perception of Being. But nevertheless you were not God. You were
God’s Expression of Himself. Neediness and wholeness were indistinguish-able
and indescribable because there was no will but the Father’s in effect.

In Reality we would not even need to talk about your being the Expression of
God and therefore being in need of Him, because in the absence of a separate
will being exercised, your wholeness, the Allness of God constituting you, was
inseparable from the fact that you are His Expression. In other words, the
need was inseparable from the inviolable experience of wholeness. Are you with
me so far?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
When you say the need is part of the wholeness, you still have a need.
</div> 

If you are the Expression of God, then that means God is your Source. And that
means that you are not self-assertive. You cannot be self-realized. You are&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So that’s the need.
</div> 

That’s the need.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
To be joined. And then that’s where the wholeness comes from.
</div> 

Exactly.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I’m with ya. Now&hellip;
</div> 

And when that wholeness is being experienced, there is no experience available
to describe through the use of the words “neediness” and “wholeness.”

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I gotcha. Now it sounds like we went from color, living color to
black-and-white. Even what we see in the sense of all that&hellip; were there
some of us who went, “Whoa! I don’t want to be in black-and-white,” and they
immediately switched back into the&hellip;
</div> 

Oh, yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
We didn’t do that. [laughing] [audience laughter] What a dummy!

[audience comments which were too hard to hear]

And be stuck in stupid rest.
</div> 

But you are still safe. You are still safe even though you’re scaring
yourselves to death. You’re still safe.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Well when I momentarily switched back from black-and-white to color, you know,
just at that moment of experience that I asked for and got, it frightened me to
be there. It was like too much. I couldn’t handle it. I had, you know, I
mean [laughing] it scared the hell out of me.
</div> 

Indeed.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So all this is about getting comfortable with being there.
</div> 

Indeed.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Thank you.
</div> 

And the miracles, the shifts of perception, which I introduce or the Holy
Spirit introduces, are always as much as you can bear without being
overwhelmed. Because the road back into your Sanity must occur in the context
of Love if you are to dare taking each step.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I want to make sure I’ve got this right because you’re giving us another way of
looking at neediness. We tend to associate neediness with lack. The starving
children in Africa are very needy because they lack food.
</div> 

Indeed.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
You seem to be saying that it’s important for us to have needs because by
having needs then those needs are filled.
</div> 

No, it’s not important for you to have needs. You have them whether you’re
acknowledging them or not.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yes. Well, and if we do have them, that must mean it’s important.
</div> 

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
In order&hellip; and we have them in order that they may be filled? And that
neediness being filled is the Movement of Love?
</div> 

It is. Because in their being filled by the Movement of Love, rather than your
personal, separate, private skill at manipulating the world, leads you into an
experience, an awareness of God being part of the need met.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay, I’d like to put this on a practical level. I have this need to house my
family and my landlord asks me that I pay rent every month.
</div> 

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay. Now I work in a way where I make my living off what people give me out
of the goodness of their heart. I’m a clown. I make balloons. I give them to
the kids. People put money in my bucket. My family, we live on a day-to-day
basis with what comes in and we’ve gotten pretty good at doing that. And we
enjoy it.

And every time I’ve been in a tough spot with like needing the rent, to not
knowing where rent is going to come from, I pray and God always comes through.
Sometimes maybe a couple of days later than I wanted, but the money always
shows up. Not always as much as I wanted but always as much as I need. And so
even though I’ve taken this big step to trust that the money will always appear
without knowing where it’s coming from each time, and it always does appear,
it’s still a very awkward place to be. There are times when it seems very
wearying.
</div> 

It’s only awkward when the pull of the status quo, of the mutually-agreed-upon
ways of things working that everyone else is embodying in their lives tempts
you or invites you to abandon trust for the apparent security of controlling
your good into your experience.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
It’s a big temptation.
</div> 

It is.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
But I’m much happier now than when I did it all on my own by getting a big
paycheck.
</div> 

Yes. It constantly keeps alive in you the awareness that there is a God and you
have a partnership. And in that partnership your safety lies.

And so you are also breaking the agreement, the mutually-agreed-upon
definitions, and not acting independently and thus being part of the leaven
that leavens the whole lump—the whole mental condition which really is better
called the whole mental conditioning that everyone is suffering from. It’s not
easy because there is little support from it. There is little support for it
from your peers. And it is also difficult because your habit, your prior
participation in the mutually-agreed-upon definitions has not dissolved
completely. But you get help in persisting in this apparently radical stance.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So I should be thankful that I have this financial need each month?
</div> 

Yes, because it keeps God square in your face.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yes, it does. [laughing] Okay. Yes. Alright. Thank you.
</div> 

You are welcome.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I find it curious that our friend over here who’s so serious is a professional
clown. [laughing] [audience laughter]

I have a little different take on this. Maybe I’m seeing my part or what’s
before me is not struggling with this dialogue about neediness and wholeness
and not being caught up on a deathbed or paying the rent, but I can find bliss
in being curious about what a leaf is. And that’s going to also leaven the
whole lump. Correct?
</div> 

To whatever degree you look at a leaf and find the Presence of God revealed to
you, yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Bliss.
</div> 

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Wholeness.
</div> 

Yes. But, don’t neglect the needs. Don’t let the blissful experience of what a
leaf really is cause you to neglect a hungry child, or an angry or grieving
wife, or an unresolved hatred that’s eating away inside you.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Or homeless clown.

Yeah. I’m just hearing all this dialogue about it and I see this like a&hellip;
this invitation to engage all of these concepts and struggle with all this.
And I remember you sitting up there saying, you know, just&hellip; it’s right
here in this leaf. And Buddha under the Bodha tree, and I mean everywhere.
Everywhere there’s this opportunity to join with this and see more than what we
thought there was and to experience bliss outside of this concept of starving
children.
</div> 

But he didn’t sit under the tree forever after the realization. He became
involved.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
He was transformed.
</div> 

He was transformed and became involved with his fellowman.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Right. Where he wasn’t&hellip; traditionally his position [was] he wasn’t
involved.
</div> 

That is correct.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Right.
</div> 

And he could have chosen to sit under that tree in bliss indefinitely and be
stuck, as you said, in stupid rest. And that is not what it’s about.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And not be stuck in stupid trauma either.
</div> 

That is correct. If there are children starving in Africa, and starving
adults, starving tribes, starving communities, and it is because they have
their mutually-agreed-upon definitions of the situations and circumstances.
And part of the mutually-agreed-upon definition is that it’s bigger than they
are and they can’t do anything about it. Now any one of them could reach out
to God and experience the miracle of a sudden shift of perception that allows
him to be a blessing in terms of breaking up the current mutually-agreed-upon
definition that is binding everyone.

But, it’s not appropriate for you&hellip; or you&hellip; any of you, to sit here
and say, “That’s going on over there and I don’t need to be involved.” If you
can’t do anything about it because you don’t have the means to gather food
together and take it over&hellip; give it to them&hellip; you can at least be
conscious of the need so that each night before you go to sleep you can ask the
Holy Spirit, and you can ask the Guides of each one of those people, to help
inspire them to hear the answer to their need which they are feeling and to
realize that it is unnecessary for them to be bound to it.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Their need is my need.
</div> 

Their need is their need, and your need is to be willing to be the conscious
Presence of Love that embraces them in the desire for realization to occur that
at the moment they can’t conceive could happen.

Every night before Paul goes to sleep, he says a prayer. He asks for those who
are the Guides and the Supporters, you might say, of those who have asked for
healing&hellip; where the words he says are, “May we please have a healing
session for everyone who has asked for healing, even if it was only expressed
as hope with little faith.” Even if it was only expressed as hope with little
faith, because Paul can ask with faith, you can ask with faith for those who
have little faith, but still hope. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I can’t willfully determine to get my enlightenment from a leaf. I mean I have
to be lead to this place where this bliss is going to come from. I mean I
can’t, like you said, I can’t decide about the miracle, or I can’t decide about
that place. That’s given to me. Not from something I can choose.
</div> 

Yes. Why are you talking about the leaf when I was just talking about&hellip; 

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
It’s just not my choice, whether it’s a&hellip; I mean I can’t choose to make the
starving child displace either. I can’t&hellip; I mean it’s&hellip; what I’m
saying is it’s not&hellip; it’s not my choice where that joining and bliss is
going to come from. Whether it’s, you know, the bodha tree, or the child, or
the angry wife, or the starving clown. I mean, it’s where it comes to me is
not something I can choose.
</div> 

You know where the need is, and the need is where the miracle is present to
occur, and so you can ask for the miracle where the need is.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yeah. Yeah. It’s obvious.
</div> 

You do not know what the miracle is going to look like, but you have the
capacity to care and ask for the miracle where the need is. 

There is a need in America for all Americans to be able to sleep peacefully and
fly peacefully and be without anxiety. But you know what? There are other
countries in the world who are living each day under the same threat compounded
5,000 times and they deserve your prayer for them as well as your prayer for
the Holy Spirit to help uncover to you your capacity to feel your peace, and
not be threatened by what can’t actually harm you.

You can’t break the isolation without having an object of your affection and
without expressing affection toward that object. And then let your
attentiveness be to the needs so that you may then be open to the realization
of how the needs can be met, and not leave your brother until the need is met,
anymore than you end up leaving yourself on your sickbed until you’re no longer
dying—because you’re willing to stay with the need until the meaning of the
need is revealed to you.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Is this the source of invention?
</div> 

No, inventions are of the intellect. Miracles are of Love.

There is much to sit with tonight&hellip; abide with. Do not let my discussion
about need be perceived as a heavy subject. The experience of need is an
experience of a point at which need met is ready and waiting to emerge in your
conscious awareness. Need is where an unconsciousness of your wholeness is the
particular unconsciousness of wholeness that you are ready to release and have
replaced by greater clarity. Need is where the miracle is pressing against a
very thin spot in your current defenses. 

You have many needs that you are not conscious of, but they are not needs that
you are at this moment capable of penetrating or seeing through. Where you are
uncomfortable is where your ego has gotten real weak and the miracle is just
under the surface. So I have been talking about something positive, affirming,
and you don’t need to be afraid of looking at your needs. Looking at the needs
of your fellowman will cause you to behave compassionately if your willingness
to look at their needs arises out of Love. And that is what is needed.

With that I will say, “Good evening.”

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
[Audience] Thank you.
</div> 

You are welcome.

[^1]: ACIM 2nd Edition: T1.I Principles of Miracles, Principle 33

