---
title: Sept 4, 2002
ref: T1.I Principles of Miracles, Principle 42
---

Good evening.

I want you to notice your Mind and your Being at the moment. And I want you to
pay attention to what you’ve done. You stepped out of your daily activity to
come over here. In effect, you set aside the things you’re normally concerned
with, involved with. And then you socialized for a bit. And then we began by
having a quiet time. And during the quiet time you stepped out of the social
realm and chose to become quiet—contemplative, in one form or another. And you
did it with the intention of being ready to listen—give your attention to the
contents of the Course and to me.

Again, I want you to just pay attention to the atmosphere within you at this
moment—what is present and what’s absent that is normally present most of the
rest of the time.

The reason I’m bringing this up is you can do all of this without coming over
here. You can go into the bedroom or the bathroom or someplace where you know
you won’t be interrupted for a few a minutes, and you can sit down, disengage
from the current activities and the current concerns, and you can choose for
those few minutes to become as quiet as possible with the intent to be ready to
listen. And you can ask me anything you want and I will answer you—whether you
hear it or not. I want you to know that I will answer you whether you have
managed to be able to hear me yet or not—always I answer.

I encourage you to find it valuable at odd times, when you’re at home or at the
office, wherever, to go through exactly the process you’ve gone through this
evening, because it is the way you prepare yourself for being able to hear.
You must, through whatever means you find helpful, become still. And then you
must express a desire to know something, to have an answer, to have a clarity
revealed. And then be still and listen.

It’s not any harder to do at home than it has been to do it here tonight. And
it’s worth doing at least once a day, if you’re not already in touch with your
guidance, just to get into the habit of being willing to set aside your
conscious intent to attend to your concerns, and instead let your intent be to
reach out, to invite and to let in whatever is needed. Don’t work at it any
more than you worked at it tonight.

If you aren’t in touch with your guidance solidly, the frequent process that
I have just described will enhance the quality of your attentiveness, the
quality of your quietness and therefore your ability to hear. If you wish to
connect with your Guide rather than me, by all means let that be where you give
your attention, because your Guide is just as Awake as I am. And your Guide
will answer you as I would answer you. We all have your best interest at
heart. And our intent is to convey to you what the Father would have you know,
not what we think you ought to know, but what the Father would have you know so
that your connection with the Father may begin to be established as your
conscious experience. And we all know how to do this equally well.

Okay. We will begin with Miracle Principle 42. And let us begin.

<div markdown="1" class="well book"> 
[Miracle Principle #42]
{: .omit}

A major contribution of miracles is
their strength in releasing you from your false sense of isolation, deprivation
and lack.[^1] 
</div>

It’s inevitable when you experience the sudden shift of perception that you
can’t account for, that you realize that if you can’t account for it and you
didn’t provide it to yourself, it must have come from somewhere. And
therefore, the event of the penetration of your awareness of something you are
not accountable for is inescapable proof that you are not alone and that the
one, or ones you are with relate to you in a way that is utterly beneficial,
and therefore utterly trustworthy. Not trustworthy because I told you it’s
trustworthy, but because the experience of it demonstrates itself to be
trustworthy, so it breaks the isolation.

Continue&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[Miracle Principle #43]
{: .omit}

Miracles arise from a miraculous state
of mind, or a state of miracle-readiness. 
</div>

Well, I’m going to ask a question. Who would like to describe to me something
that is definitely not a state of miracle-readiness?

<div markdown="1" class="well person"> 
When we’re in the throes of a mutually-agreed-upon
concept. 
</div>

Pretty smart.

<div markdown="1" class="well person"> 
[audience laugher] Uh oh, that scares me. 
</div>

That’s the “right answer,” yes. But I want a personal&hellip; tell me a way
that you&hellip; tell me something that you have done that constitutes a state
of the absence of miracle-readiness.

<div markdown="1" class="well person"> 
Oh, oh, that’s easy. [laughter] Worrying about things
that seem that&hellip; that are going awry. In other words, being totally
engrossed in worry and fear and saying, “Oh, it’s all coming apart. This is
going all wrong. Oh, woe is me. How did I ever get into this? I’m a real
jerk.” 
</div>

Well, I think you used up all the reasons. [audience laughter, Raj laughing]
You’re correct, indeed. A state of mind that is not miracle-ready is one that
is confident that the worst will happen, or that something less than the best
will happen, that the situation is hopeless and so on. Yes.

So a state of miracle-readiness would be?

<div markdown="1" class="well person"> 
Enjoying your object of affection.
</div>

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person"> 
I think a state of mind that is not miracle-ready is
when I think that I’m alone and in a hostile universe. 
</div>

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person"> 
The opposite of which is remembering that I’m at One
with God and every&hellip; which is the miracle state of Mind. 
</div>

Yes. Anyone else?

<div markdown="1" class="well person"> 
When someone&hellip; and I’ve noticed myself actually
many times during the day feel so confident that all my defenses are all in
order, I’m ready to defend all my little fort and I’m able to. And if
something goes awry, either I’ve failed myself or else I just wasn’t strong
enough. 
</div>

These are examples of a mind not miracle-ready.

<div markdown="1" class="well person"> 
That was it. 
</div>

Yes. Now what would be an example of miracle-readiness?

<div markdown="1" class="well person"> 
I think a oneness, a willingness to release. A very
frank willingness to release my sense of my own will as being all that there
is. And to listen to perhaps&hellip; for the Truth. 
</div>

For the unexpected.

<div markdown="1" class="well person"> 
Just listen. 
</div>

Yes, for the unexpected.

<div markdown="1" class="well person"> 
Yes. 
</div>

Yes. Another way of putting it is that a miracle-ready state of mind is one in
which faithlessness is not being practiced. And I do want to point out that
faith does not have to be practiced in order for one to be miracle-ready. One
simply has to be neglecting to practice faithlessness. And faithlessness is
when you say, “Everything is going wrong and it’s not going to change,” or “My
situation is awful and I’m stuck.” You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well person"> 
I was just going to say having curiosity, wondering
how your need is going to be met next, but not knowing how that might&hellip;
and being curious to see how it’s going to happen. That’s kind of
a miracle-readiness. 
</div>

That is correct. Anyone else?

<div markdown="1" class="well person"> 
Practicing to recognize Spirit rather than the body
can just immediately make the person that you want to&hellip; or the moment
before you had all these concepts about, it can just flip it, and suddenly all
there is, is just this sense of love for this beautiful person. It’s just so
amazing. And I don’t know why I don’t do that more often. [small laugh]
</div>

Anyone else? Just a moment.

<div markdown="1" class="well person"> 
Lately it feels like&hellip; I’m just watching my
screen&hellip; that I’m willing to wait, to like even just stand somewhere and
not know whether I should walk into the store, whether I should turn right,
whether I should turn left. And the other day it kind of felt like when I was
a little kid and when you go in somewhere and it’s really your parents that are
in charge and so you just kind of like wait to be told like, “Okay, go sit
there. Okay, do this. Do that.” Right? Instead of just thinking I know and
rushing in with my plan, even if it’s to get a cup of coffee. Like just
everything sort of slows down. 
</div>

So you might say that a miracle-ready mind is one which is attentive, without
designs in place. Attention is a form of curiosity. And when you know what
you’re going to do, you’re not paying attention.

<div markdown="1" class="well person"> 
Ah, yeah.

Adults unfortunately have taken on this stance that was expected of them to
take on that you’re supposed to&hellip;
</div>

You thought I asked you&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person"> &hellip; know by the time you’re a certain
age&hellip; 
</div>

That’s right.

<div markdown="1" class="well person"> 
&hellip; what you’re doing. 
</div>

[That’s] what you are taught. Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And I wasn’t ever very good at that and so my father still treats me like I’m
seventeen, because I’m acting like that to him, you know. So I have to forgive
him for that a lot.
</div>

The majority of the tension that everyone feels comes from that fact that they
are behaving as though they know, when they don’t. And they know they don’t
and so they&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
They hope you don’t notice. [audience laughter]
</div>

That is correct. And the likelihood that your&hellip; the fact that you’re
being a fake is likely to be discovered, that causes ongoing tension.

So why not accept what you’ve known all along? The one thing you’ve known is
that you don’t know&hellip; trying to know. And you stop behaving as though
you do know, and you find your peace with [sound cut off here]&hellip; What
happens? That’s when you become attentive, because you abandoned your plans.
You abandoned the techniques that you use to appear to know when you don’t
know. And that’s when you become receptive. That’s when your mind is
available for the penetration of truth to occur, for insight to occur, for
a sudden shift of perception to occur.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I think that a lot of people have felt that they didn’t fit in because they
weren’t following the adult stance of knowing. And that was a mistake. That’s
a mistake too because not fitting&hellip;
</div>

But that’s the mutually-agreed-upon definitions. If you have mutually agreed
to the definitions and meanings of things, then you must not break that
contract, else you’ll be on the outside and everyone will let you know that
you’re not in the group anymore and that you are not accepted. And that what
you have become by virtue of not honoring the mutual agreement is unacceptable,
despicable, insane, 

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
&hellip; Irresponsible&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that you are no longer worthy of respect. And these are the ways that
those who are abiding by the mutually-agreed-upon definitions try to cause you
to feel shame in order to coerce you back into the group. But, mind you, as
long as you’re in the group, as long as you’re committed to the
mutually-agreed-upon definitions, you’re not paying attention.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Recently I had a résumé go online and the girl who was helping me do this and
I, were discussing whether or not&hellip; I mean how do we get around the age
factor. Because something such as that where they’re just looking at a piece
of paper and they’re studying whether you’re worthy of a position, and then not
knowing you and not knowing your vitality or your ability, you know, by virtue
of where you really are at that point in your life, not by the numbers, but
by&hellip; again by virtue of what you are in fact. And so there was no way to
get around, you know, the numbers ‘cause you can’t really lie&hellip; really,
you know, do it either.

So it’s a very interesting position to be in for me because I’ve never tried
this angle before of online résumé. So it really kind of opened my eyes up to
the fact that I really am at the mercy of the will of the Father. More so now
than ever before I recognize that and it’s not an imposition on me. I realize
that&hellip; I really did surrender at that moment of recognition that I can
trust because&hellip; not because it’s an interesting spiritual practice,
[there’s] nothing left for me to do.
</div>

It’s an essential practice.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
It’s essential. Yes.
</div>

Exactly. Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And that I really can’t get around it anymore, even if I wanted to play at the
game of manipulation, manipulating my good into my experience. It’s no fun
anymore, to whatever degree I had been doing it. It’s nice to get there.
</div>

So to not be miracle-ready would be to devote yourself to assumptions.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Like nobody will hire you because of your age.
</div>

Exactly, exactly. To be miracle-ready then means to abandon all assumptions,
to set all assumptions aside for a moment even and say, “Aside from all of my
assumptions, Father, what is the truth here?” or, “Aside from all of my
assumptions of what will work and what won’t work, what’s the appropriate next
step for me?” You see? You must be willing for a moment to abandon your
habitual assumptions, because, again, your assumptions are an active form of
practicing faithlessness. Faithlessness isn’t just hopelessness.
Faithlessness is aggressive. Faithlessness is assertive. There’s nothing
passive about faithlessness. In other words, it’s willful.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
It’s exhausting.
</div>

Yes, it is. So to set aside faithlessness means to set aside willfulness, to
set aside your confidences in good or bad. If you are confident as to how
a healing is going to occur, your confidence may well blind you to the way the
healing is really going to happen the way God is unfolding it. You see? So
confidences, positive or negative, constitute a shield that protects you
against the direct spontaneous experience of the experience of God, which is
going to be utterly original—unexpected, but always not shocking. It will
always be comprehensible to you. The influx of insight, the sudden shift of
perception won’t be a shift into the unbelievable, it won’t be a shift into
incomprehensible, that would be an experience of chaos for you. It will always
be a shift into that which is so utterly comprehensible and so utterly simple
that you will say, “Why didn’t I see that before?” You see what I’m saying?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I was asking you recently to help me to see my brothers and sisters as the
Christ that they Are. And I don’t know if this is part of how you are helping
me, but I had a dream and in that dream&hellip; I mean a sleeping&hellip;
I went to sleep and had a dream. And in that dream I experienced someone
I know in a way that I wasn’t expecting and it was really a dramatic feeling
that went along with it. Normally I don’t pay that much attention to my dreams
but I just wondered if that was an answer, part of the answer you&hellip; that
I was receiving.
</div>

Yes, indeed.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
‘Cause in that experience I really did experience that person in a way that
they have not shown up in the human condition around&hellip;
</div>

In quote “in real life” unquote.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Right, quote&hellip; at all. It was very different. And it was rather
shocking in a way. And it hasn’t left me since. And I hope that I can
actually begin to see everyone like that.
</div>

Now, before having the dream, whenever you thought of this person, you thought
of him the way he has always been.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
The way he behaved.
</div>

Exactly.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yes.
</div>

And when you do that, you are practicing faithlessness. You are experiencing
a spontaneous confidence in your perception of him, your current&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And I didn’t want to do that anymore.
</div>

Right.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I knew it was not the way&hellip; I knew it was hurting me to do that.
</div>

Yes.

I just want you to [understand whatever] perceptions are of another that are
not being gathered on the spot, connection with that person constitutes
a practiced resistance to seeing him with fresh eyes. And there’s no innocence
in that. I do not mean that there is guilt in that, but there’s no innocence
in it. In other words, when I speak of looking with innocent eyes, I mean to
look with eyes that aren’t being colored by anything&hellip; your past
experience of him, the fact that you happen to be thinking of him at “that time
of the month” when everything looks bad, or whatever. You see what I mean?

Looking with innocence means being willing for a moment to look with curiosity
to see the unexpected, to see what you haven’t been seeing, and specifically,
to see what God would have you see. If you are not looking with curiosity, you
are looking with some confidence at what you choose to see. And whatever it is
you are choosing to see, whether it’s pleasant or unpleasant, does not
constitute being attentive to the unknown, the unexpected. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Um hmm.
</div>

And this is the way you keep others bound to the mutually-agreed-upon
definitions—not just you, every single one of you. Because you may all see
yourselves as starting to crawl out of the crab barrel and, you know, abandon
the status quo.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Like we’re free.
</div>

Yes. And yet as you climb out, you continue to see that guy as a bastard, or
that woman as a whatever, and because she always has been and I&hellip; You
see? And you continue to hold others to the rules of the mutually-agreed-upon.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Well, like they’re different from you, something wrong right away.
</div>

That’s correct. So just be aware that, as the Bobos comic strip says, “I’ve
seen the enemy and&hellip;”

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I have been knowing that I need, my mind needs to be changed in this way for
a while now. I just was surprised. And this is part of why I shared this that
it came about in a dream, because again I don’t normally, you know, pay a lot
of attention to my dreams. You know, I think most of it’s pretty wild and
crazy.
</div>

If things need to change, instead of trying to change your mind, just start
practicing curiosity. That in itself will be the change that breaks the habit.
You break the habit by doing something new, not by working on the habit. You
see what I’m saying?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Um hmmm.
</div>

Okay. Let’s continue.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Sometimes I’m in the state that where I say, “I don’t know what anything is
for. I am totally lost and confused.” Is that a state of miracle-readiness?
Or do you have to move into the next stage which now thankfully I am doing
where I say, “I am lost and totally confused. I don’t know what anything is
for.” And I look up and say, “God, help.”
</div>

It all depends on how honest the statement is. If it’s a truly honest
statement, you say it and it’s not part of a ploy. It’s not part of
a manipulation. It’s not a justification for being pissed off. It’s not
a justification for being frustrated. It’s a simple honest acknowledgment of
the truth that you are willing to abide with and be with without the
acknowledgment being a step toward a goal you’re seeking.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
It’s&hellip; oftentimes it’s not a good feeling. Do you know what I mean?
It’s not like a pleasing feeling, or feeling of fulfillment, or&hellip; It’s
a feeling of emptiness, a feeling of like being at the bottom of the barrel
type feeling.
</div>

Yes. But if you are in effect saying, “I’m at the bottom of the barrel. I’m
acknowledging I’m at the bottom of the barrel. I don’t like being at the
bottom of the barrel.” Even if you aren’t trying to get out of the&hellip;
even if you have abandoned trying to get out of the barrel but are sitting in
the bottom of the barrel grousing about it, you haven’t accepted being at the
bottom of the barrel. When you accept being at the bottom of the barrel, that
indeed you don’t know, and you stop fighting against it, and you let yourself
be at peace in it, that’s when the bottom of the barrel drops out.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So it’s like sometimes&hellip;
</div>

Insight occurs.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
It’s like sometimes I feel, not only in this instance do I not know what
anything is for and I’m lost and confused, but my God, there’s a realization
it’s always been like this. My whole life has been like this. And how many
other lifetimes have been like this? Wow, what a&hellip; I have been really
spinning my wheels all this time. Wow.
</div>

Yes. The other thing is that when&hellip; well, first of all, being at the
bottom of the barrel is just a definition. Your bottom of the barrel is not
someone else’s bottom of the barrel. And what makes it the bottom of the
barrel for you is that you are in a [situation/circumstance] that you have done
everything to avoid being in.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
That’s why you go to school. [laughing]
</div>

The bottom of the barrel is in the middle of the Kingdom of Heaven. And when
you stop resisting being in the bottom of the barrel, new definition can occur
to you so that you can begin to see the God in the things that you had been
avoiding, because you had been taught to avoid them. The bottom of the barrel
is always your leading edge. What you have been taught constitutes success is
everything that will keep you from the bottom of the barrel, and therefore will
keep you from the threshold of enlightenment.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
But it&hellip; does the leading edge, does the bottom of the barrel always have
to be so unpleasant, so distasteful, such a feeling of hell?
</div>

It all depends on how disgusting you have been taught that that place is.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Well, it’s kind of like the human condition, that we’ve all been taught that
the bottom of the barrel and disgusting are like synonymous.
</div>

Indeed.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So does the leading edge at some point shift to be a feeling of freedom and
release, and wow, you know, it’s okay to be here?
</div>

Again, it depends on what the threshold of discovery is violating. And if
a threshold of discovery is violating something that you have been severely
taught is the road to hell, or the epitome of un-respectability, then that
threshold will be uncomfortable. But once you move through it, you experience
the freedom that you are asking about right now.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So maybe being at the bottom of the barrel long enough, you kind of get used to
it and say, “This isn’t so bad after all,” or, “I like it here.” [laughing]
</div>

Well, let’s put it this way. Some thresholds are like your moving up here and
having raccoons that were a pain in the “you-know-what.” They were a pain in
the “you-know-what” because of the definitions and meanings you were giving the
situation. And your being present where they were in your experience long
enough, being present with them long enough, provided you with the opportunity,
was another way to look at this. But until you looked at it differently, you
were miserable, and they were pesky. And once you saw that there was another
way to look at this, because you were around it long enough to have a slow
shift of perception, rather than a sudden shift of perception, and you made the
shift based off being pesky. They didn’t go away, but they stopped being
pesky. So that was a gentle form of being at the bottom of the barrel.

There are other forms of being at the bottom of the barrel that are more
dramatic and the “Aha!” is more abrupt, an [sound cut off here]&hellip; of
perception. But understand that every crossing of a threshold is going to
constitute a violation of a concept that you have been holding with commitment.
How difficult that crossing of the threshold is for you depends upon how
strenuously you resist moving over the threshold.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Thank you.
</div>

Miracle-readiness involves a willingness to look at the unlovable, the
unforgivable, the disgusting, with a willingness to see with new eyes,
a curiosity to see what on earth of the Kingdom of Heaven this particular thing
is, instead of what you’ve been conditioned to believe it is. That’s
miracle-readiness.

If there’s only one thing that confronts you because there’s only one thing
going on and it’s the Kingdom of Heaven, or Reality, with a capital “R”, or
Creation Itself, the Presence of God manifest, then there truly is nothing else
for you to do than to look at it with a curiosity, positive curiosity, not
fear, and an inquisitiveness to see just how on earth this could possibly be
the Kingdom of Heaven, or some aspect of the Kingdom of Heaven. Let there be
a little genuine curiosity to hear an answer that violates whatever it is
you’re so confident about that makes what you’re looking at appear to
obviously not be the Kingdom of Heaven. That’s an example of
miracle-readiness. You see?

So it’s a practice. You all practice not being miracle-ready by your
commitment to how you think things are. And it’s, as I said, it’s very
assertive and aggressive. Okay. Miracle-readiness is the abandoning of that,
even momentarily. That’s why sudden shifts of consciousness or of perception
occur. They occur many times because in a moment you were momentarily
distracted from your commitments. You were for a moment inattentive to the
reinforcement of your beliefs. And in that little moment, there was a chink in
your armor, in your defense, and it could get through. That’s why I said you
don’t have to practice faith-full-ness. All you have to do is for a moment
stop practice faith-less-ness.

That doesn’t mean that the act of faithfulness that you described is not
meaningful. But it must be understood that it’s not essential to the
experience of the miracle. What the one thing that is essential is the
momentary abandonment of the practice of faithlessness. That is essential.
Okay.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Can I say one thing about miracle-readiness?
</div>

Sure.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Well, you talked about when we first started about how being still and
listening and then the experience of fellowship with you and my Guide, Father,
that experience, to me, seemed to be a miracle. And that’s when I felt the
faith. That’s when I have glimpses of how I really am. That’s when I’m
curious. That’s what prepares me, I think, for miracle-readiness more than
anything else is stopping, being still, listening.
</div>

Indeed. Indeed that’s another way of describing exactly what we have been
speaking about.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
It’s seems to me that the abandoning of faithlessness and the act of
faith-full-ness are in essence the same thing. Because you only abandon your
faithlessness to what? Trust or desperation. Desperation, I guess, being
hitting the bottom of the barrel, and from then on, I would imagine, climbing
out of the barrel. Or going through the bottom of the barrel is the trust.
I guess I see them as the same thing.
</div>

Well, another way of putting it is that the human condition is the result of
trying to climb out of the barrel.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yes.
</div>

That’s the practicing of faithlessness. To allow oneself to be at the bottom
of the barrel is the abandonment of the practice of faithlessness.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And redefining the bottom of the barrel.
</div>

Well, but be careful that you are not providing the new definition.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Or allowing God to redefine.
</div>

Exactly, which happens spontaneously when you abandon attempting to get out of
the barrel.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yes.
</div>

Yes. So indeed the faith-full-ness isn’t a form of confidence in something yet
to happen, but is an expression of trust in allowing yourself to be fully
present in the bottom of the barrel without any further attempt to get out.
And without using the apparent awfulness of being at the bottom of the barrel
as a way of pointing to someone else and saying, “See what you have made of
me.” That is&hellip; in other words, you don’t use being at the bottom of the
barrel for any purpose, else you’re still not paying attention, you’re busy
carrying out some act of will for some self-seeking purpose.

So faithfulness involves allowing yourself to abide with peace in the bottom of
the barrel. Abiding in peace at the bottom of the barrel constitutes the
relinquishment of self-assertion or willfulness. In the absence of willfulness
humility is the state of mind. In the state of mind of humility penetration of
the Father’s Will can occur and transformation follows—the miracle occurs.

So I’m describing a fine point. Faithfulness does not mean faithfulness in
something, in a goal or faithfulness in what God will be or faithfulness in
what you have been told the nature of things is. It’s a faithfulness in the
value of no longer asserting self-will.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I see it as allowing that the Universe has my best interest at heart.
</div>

This is very good. But, the miracle can occur whether that conscious
acknowledgment occurs or not.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And thank God for that.
</div>

Yes. So I am not contradicting you, but I do want it to be clear that the
person to whom it doesn’t occur to think that is not lost.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yes.
</div>

He doesn’t have to know that it’s the Nature of the Universe to have his best
interest at heart. But in the fighting against being where he is and in the
presence of humility, that realization can occur to him or the experience of
the miracle can occur&hellip; that in itself reveals what you just said.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yes, and after a few of such experiences you build upon that from just a lack
of faithlessness to an overt faith-full-ness.
</div>

That is correct. That is correct.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
The faith works spiral I referred to.
</div>

And then what happens is that your thresholds&hellip; you move over your
thresholds or through the bottoms of your barrels more gracefully.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yes. Thanks.
</div>

You are welcome.

Okay. Number 44&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[Miracle Principle #44]
{: .omit}

The miracle is an expression of an inner awareness of Christ
and the acceptance of His Atonement.
</div>

Now the question is does one have to have an inner awareness of Christ before
he can experience the miracle? The answer is no.

But there is one essential thing. Whether one even knows of the existence of
the Christ or not, if one is at the bottom of his barrel and gives up the
attempt to get out of the barrel, and in the experience of his discomfort
reaches out to the unknown, whether he calls it God or whether he just reaches
out to a generalized point that in his mind he feels must have been responsible
for the Creation of the Universe, the fact that he reaches outside of any
supposed capacity he thinks he has to solve the problem does express an
awareness of something to reach out to that’s bigger than him. And that is
enough to do the trick. And when the experience comes of healing and
regeneration and insight that allows his life to turn around, whether he yet
knows that it’s the Christ that was responsible, and whether he yet knows
that his improved sense of himself is an improved awareness of himself as the
Christ, whether he’s aware of this or not, he’s aware perhaps wordlessly and
without concepts of an essential divinity to everything that he was unaware
of before.

Now the fact is that one domino had to fall before other dominoes could fall.
And it is because I, while, we’ll say incarnated, while in the same experience
you are in, chose consciously not to embellish the Presence of God that my
Being is, by adding to it a lot of personality and adding to it a willingness
to join in mutually-agreed-upon definitions. In my unwillingness, let’s put it
this way, in my unwillingness to pretend that there was more present where
I was—was being—while in the same experience that every one of you are in, that
constituted the toppling of the first domino. And therefore, any other
dominoes that fall—do not take this wrong—have me to thank. In other words,
someone started the ball rolling. Someone started the dominoes falling.

And so the experience of the domino—that they are—falling is a demonstration of
my connection with him or her. And it’s also a demonstration of the Atonement,
whether that individual has any words or concepts of the sort that we’re
talking about right now.

What you’ve got to understand is that we’re not learning about A Course in
Miracles. What if you went somewhere in the Amazon where there were a tribe of
Indians whom you couldn’t communicate with at all because you didn’t know their
language, are you at a loss to be the Christ? Are you at a loss to be the
presence that triggers illumination?

Again though, let’s say you go there and you do know the language and they know
nothing of the principles of the Course, is it necessary for you to, first of
all, teach them Christianity so that they might understand what the words in
the Course are relating to or referring to before you can start teaching the
words of the Course? And is that what it’s about? No.

What this is about, what we’re reading here is about learning to become
miracle-ready, we’ll say. Which means learning with the least amount of
folderol and language and concepts to accept a basic premise that you didn’t
create yourself and Something did, and that you can’t be responsible for
yourself and Something is. And to cause you to have enough curiosity to
devalue what you think and believe and are committed to enough to be curious to
know if there’s another point of view which you desire to know of from whatever
this Is that is responsible for you so that you might stand at the threshold of
the unknown and begin to have a actual relationship with God.

And if you are doing that, then you can relate wordlessly with your Brother or
you can relate without the necessity of, well, let’s say, creating new
mutually-agreed-upon definitions of what this book means before they can Wake
up or be blessed by an immediate and intimate experience of God themselves,
whatever that means to them. You see? Okay.

Let’s continue&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[Miracle Principle #45]
{: .omit}

A miracle is never lost. It may touch many people you have not
even met, and produce undreamed of changes in situations of which you are not
even aware.
</div>

Yes. This really doesn’t need to be discussed. It simply says the Truth.
That is a simple fact. I will say one thing: Even if you experience the
miracle and three weeks later you have re-entrenched yourselves in the position
you took before the miracle happened, the benefit to everyone is not undone.
The realization, which you may have covered up once again nevertheless blessed
everyone because minds are joined.

Okay&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[Miracle Principle #46]
{: .omit}

The Holy Spirit is the highest communication medium. Miracles
do not involve this type of communication, because they are temporary
communication devices. When you return to your original form of
communication with God by direct revelation, the need for miracles is over.
</div>

Miracles are shifts of perception which I introduce when you [are] defenseless.
Well, I very often introduce them when you are defensive, but when you are
defensive they cannot penetrate. The introduction of miracles is forever
constant, I will put it that way, but they promote shifts of consciousness.
How shall I put it? They promote shifts of consciousness that are not greater
than you can bear, that are not greater than you can stand in receipt of
without having to change so radically that you wouldn’t recognize yourself
anymore. They are not meant to Wake you up in one great miracle act. They
honor you where you are by stretching you as much as you can bear to be
stretched until you can bear to be stretched more. That is all I will say at
the moment about this.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
May I say something?
</div>

Yes, you may.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
It says that the Holy Spirit is the highest communication device and the
miracle&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; medium&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
&hellip; medium rather. And miracles are temporary forms. Does that mean that
when we’re in the revelatory experience that it talks about in the last
sentence that that is the Holy Spirit working with us constantly? Do you see
where I&hellip; what I mean? There’s a little confusion there for me.
</div>

Revelation comes directly from God.

Okay.

Not.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So it says, “The Holy Spirit is the highest communication medium. Miracles do
not involve this type of communication.” So apparently there’s three different
communications that we’re talking about here. The miracle, direct
communication from God which is direct revelation, and then there’s another
highest communication medium. See, so there’s a confusion there. If&hellip;
so God by direct revelation seems to me would be a higher form of communication
than the Holy Spirit’s highest communication medium. Do you see what I’m
getting at?
</div>

Yes, I do.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay.
</div>

And you must remember that I have said the Holy Spirit is your very own
divinity held in trust while you dally with the ego.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Ah. Okay.
</div>

The communication of the Holy Spirit is the conveyance to you of the
remembrance of who you Are. The miracle promotes shifts of perception that
reveal to you the nature of Being and promote your defenseless involvement with
your Brothers and Sisters so that you as the Expression of Love might find the
willingness to abandon your stance as a defense mechanism against a hostile
world and brothers who are out to get everything they can from you at your
expense. As you make this shift from a defense mechanism to one who is willing
to look with innocent eyes, and therefore, be Love embodied, you become
defenseless against the remembrance of who you Are. And in that
defenselessness, who you divinely Are—in other words, the Holy Spirit—can
introduce the deep remembrance of who you Are so that that becomes embodied,
re-embodied as your Identity.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Fully remembered.
</div>

No. It is gradual. But the more defenseless you become, the less of a defense
mechanism you enact in your experience. The more innocent you become, the
softer you become, the more receptive you become. And you could say, that this
provides an ambiance in your Being that allows the Holy Spirit to illuminate to
you what you divinely Are in a manner that you can reincorporate and own as
You. And so less of what you divinely Are remains disowned. That is the
simplest way I can put it at the moment.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Then at some point as this owning/ownership takes place, is there a critical
mass or something that’s reached? Or is that just a mystery on how that takes
place?
</div>

Yes, that’s a good way of putting it. There is a point at which the rest of
the journey is precipitated suddenly, but that comes as you have the repeated
experience of miracles that cause there to be a little greater confidence in
the fact that the Universe is intent upon blessing you, so that you move over
your thresholds more gracefully.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Can you reveal to us if many of us in this generation or in this time are due
to make this shift while still in body? Or do we all have to kick? [small
laugh]
</div>

I certainly hope so. I have the greatest confidence. And I am being facetious
here. The fact is that the answer to your question is, yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And this is like the first time in history that this is going to take place,
because I remember you saying before that it’s so much easier&hellip;
</div>

Well, let’s put it this way. It’s the only time in history it’s going to
happen.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Is he being ser-&hellip; No, not you, him.

No, I’m curious.

I mean it reminded me of when you said that to Mark like you already knew it.

Well, actually, you know it’s almost like there’s an egoic thing about, “oh
yeah, we’re gonna do it. This is the generation.” And that’s the thing I was
trying to dispel.

Well, maybe there’s some more egoic things there. Maybe there’s a stronger
urge to believe it’s not possible. I’m only guessing here. But it’s just like
we started out this whole conversation talking about, you know, what was the
very beginning thing we were talking about? It relates to this. And now I’m
not even sure what that is. [laughing] But it connects. I can feel it.
[laughing] I can feel it. My mind went blank; that’s what happened. But it
was what we’ve&hellip; Yeah.
</div>

The simple fact is that there is a precipitous movement already happening.
Just don’t become preoccupied with it, because what will cause the
precipitousness of it to accelerate is the actual practice of attentiveness
that each of you brings into play today.

And you know what? Don’t any of you waste your time being attentive so that
you can bring about the end of the illusion for all mankind, because then you
will be busy on your commitment to your project. And the only thing that will
do it is going to be a curiosity to know what God is being right where this
petal on the rose is, right where the rose is, right where your Sister is
next to you, right where your Brother is next to you, and abandoning your old
habitual ways of dealing with each other in the here and now. You’re going
to have to do the work. You see what I’m saying?

You’re going to have care enough to look with fresh eyes at everybody so that
you are miracle-ready. Why? So that the end of the illusion can come for all
of mankind? No. So that you might remember your divine function, so that you
might no longer suffer from insanity, so that you might find every conscious
moment a moment of joy and bliss because you deserve nothing less. And you
will have nothing less when you stop presenting more than what God is being
right where you are.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So being faithless would be to look at your Brother and believe what he’s
thinking about himself.
</div>

Yes, or believing what you are thinking about him.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yes. Either way. Because I was just thinking how we break the habit. And
that’s what you mean by doing the work.
</div>

That’s what I mean, and persisting no matter how much they might resist. And
persisting no matter how hard it seems to you for you to overcome your
commitment to seeing him as less than what God is being.

You would be amazed at how many people are upset because I said that Hitler is
Awake. “Well, he can’t possibly have paid enough. He cannot possibly have
suffered enough to atone for the awfulness of what he did.”

And each of you have people in your experience that you look at and say, “I
will not be their friend because they did me dirt. And until I feel that they
have paid enough for it, I refuse to love them.” In other words, I refuse to
fulfill my function as the Presence of Love. And in that act, separate
yourself from your full experience of your divinity and your inseparableness
from God and your capacity to be Awake.

So all of you still hold someone responsible for something and you are
demanding justice. And until justice is gotten, you will refuse to be the
divine one that you Are and fulfill your function as Love. You will refuse to
hang in with them insisting upon being willing to have the Father infuse you
with the inspiration it takes to find your capacity to love them renewed, which
would bless them and which would bless you, because you’re no longer standing
on your jugular vein, if I may put it this way, through which your capacity to
be the Son or Daughter of God flows. You get it?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So in feeling this infusing though, like it kind of feels out of control. Like
I feel like it’s just going to render me ridiculous or something. I mean
there’s a like a membrane that I feel like I’m&hellip; that I come up against
in feeling like a great love. And I just feel like if I just let it go I’ll
just like&hellip; it’s not like&hellip;
</div>

You’re much better to keep it under control. Um hmm.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
[laughing] I know. I know it sounds so stupid. But it’s like I’m afraid.
</div>

I understand.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yeah. You know there’s just a fear&hellip;
</div>

I’m not minimizing it.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
No, it’s okay.
</div>

That’s why the shift of perception, even the sudden shift of perception,
doesn’t take you further than you can bear. You are all conditioned to believe
that control is needed or chaos will result. But what you don’t understand is
that the state you’re in when you are keeping everything under control is what
is called the human condition that you’re all suffering from. You’re
all&hellip; you’re in the chaos.

So what happens is that the little punctures in the wall of the membrane that
all of this Love is behind, occur so that you can be bathed in little bits of
it that don’t overwhelm you and that convey to you experientially that the
experience of this Love flowing is safe, is nurturing to you, is stabilizing to
you and actually ends up blessing everyone so that you relax a little bit more
and more punctures can occur.

But I promise you one thing. We can’t override your will. We can encourage
you to lessen the intensity with which you exercise it. You will never be
overwhelmed with your divinity. But, it’s absolutely essential that someone
encourage you firmly and consistently and repetitively to dare to entrust
yourself to the Love that’s behind the membrane. Else you would go on
indefinitely keeping yourself protected against it, and therefore against your
conscious experience of your wholeness and the harmony and the beauty and the
bliss of the totality of Being, of all of Creation.

When that uncontrollable, humungous Presence of Love&hellip; it may come out in
a gush, but the stream will slow down once it’s not having to move against the
pressure of your resistance, and there will be such order and such harmony that
it will be awesome or let’s put it this way, it would be awesome if it weren’t
for the fact that in the experience of it, you’ll say, “Ah. Yeah. This is me.
 This is who I’ve always been. I’m at Home. I’m not at odds with myself
 anymore. I’m not at odds with my world anymore. Everywhere I look I see me.
 Everywhere I look I see my wholeness. My Brothers and my Sisters and all of
 God’s Creation really is some part of me. It’s the infinitude of the
 totality of what I Am because I am the totality of what God is, because in
 God expressing Himself He held nothing back. And so all of what God is, is
 what I Am.”

Well, it really isn’t chaos that you’re afraid of. It is really the fear of
the loss of control. Because control is what the ego sense of self has used to
ensure that its insane frame of mind cannot be violated.

So miracle-mindedness or miracle-readiness is a state in which you become
curious about and you invite experiences that go beyond the boundaries that
your ego has set. As I’ve said before, it’s asking for help. And you can ask
for help in the midst of great distress or you can ask for help in the midst of
peace while you’re sitting in the garden saying, “God, what must be the
incredible beauty and divine Meaning of this ladybug I see crawling on the
rosebush? What is it? What is the more that has to be infinitely more than
I’m perceiving about this ladybug?”

Okay.

You might think we’re never going to get through these fifty miracle
principles. [audience laughter] But we are going to call it a night for
tonight. And we will continue next week—48, 49, 50—and we’ll see whether we
can finish those up in one evening.

I love you.

[^1]: ACIM 2nd Edition: T1.I Principles of Miracles, Principle 42

