---
title: Sept 11, 2002
ref: T1.I Principles of Miracles, Principle 47
---

Good evening.

For the sake of those who are not familiar with the *Course*, I would ask
someone who has been coming on Wednesday evenings if they would share the
meaning of the word “miracles” as the *Course* uses it, because it is a rather
specific use of the word. Is there anyone who would like to&hellip;

Okay.

<div markdown="1" class="well person"> 
A miracle is a shift in consciousness, a shift in the
way you look at things. [^1] 
</div> 

A sudden shift. Yes. It is a shift of awareness that happens, you might say,
spontaneously. It happens when you are, I’m going to say, mentally undefended.
It happens in moments when you are not sure of what anything means, or you are
not confident and you have let yourself into a neutral space. And when that
happens, the penetration of clarity can occur and will occur, because that’s
the nature of the way your mind works.

It is not your Birthright to be, I’m going to say, solidified into a clear-cut
unequivocal definition of the meaning of life, or the meaning of anything in
your experience, in terms that you have provided, because then you are bound to
the definitions you have given. And the fact that everything you are
experiencing is the Presence of God constantly in the Act of Creation, escapes
your attention to the degree that you are absolutely confident that you know
what everything means.

When there is a moment where your consciousness is free of your constant
reinforcement of your definitions, the penetration of the Conscious Experience
of the Movement of Creation that God Is Being has the opportunity to occur.
When that happens, that is what the Course refers to as a miracle. When this
sudden shift of perception occurs, you see everything differently. And there
are two characteristics to it, to the experience.

One is that you experience in one form or another the Divinity, the fact that
there is a Divinity to whatever is occupying your attention, whether it is your
fellowman, or an animal, or nature, or the universe, so that whatever lesser
definitions you were holding about your fellowman, or whatever your attention
is on, is suddenly replaced by a clarity about it that you didn’t have before.

The second thing, the second characteristic of this experience is that it
becomes obvious to you that the Divinity of this person or thing is directly
derived from God, and that therefore your experience of this thing is some
aspect of the Experience of God.

Now you know, this sudden shift of perception may be very subtle. It may be you
working with a client and suddenly experiencing a complete shift of awareness
relative to this one that allows you to open up your mouth and say something
utterly appropriate that isn’t the least bit shocking, or other worldly, that
touches this other one and promotes a shift in them, a release of something
they had been binding themselves with.

Sometimes the experience is more, you might say, dramatic. But the word
“miracle” as it’s being used here is not to be construed to mean something, I’m
going to say, something more special than being able to relate with your world
with more gentleness, with more kindness, with more thoughtfulness, with more
compassion, with more love. So let miracles be that simple, even though you are
likely to find that in that simplicity, it will have a ripple out effect that
far exceeds the current simplicity that you were expressing.

Okay. Let us continue from where we left off which was with Miracle Principal
47.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[Miracle Principle #47]
{: .omit}

The miracle is a learning device that lessens the need
for time. It establishes an out-of-pattern time interval not under the usual
laws of time. In this sense it is timeless. [^2]
</div> 

Now we’re not going to make anything out of the ordinary here relative to the
term “out-of-pattern time interval.” I will simply say that when a choice was
made to give things definitions, meanings, that God is not intending in His
Manifestation of those things, you move into an intellectual function of the
mind that can only be experienced in a linear fashion. And anything that
happens in a linear fashion involves the experience that you call time.

And it’s sort of like being on a road that winds its way through the mountains
that is relatively level where you can’t see what’s around the next bend. And
so you must wait until you get around the bend to see what’s there, and that
takes time. But, if you had the means of moving vertically, you could see
around the next bend. You could see in the distance. And in the larger grasp,
you would know what it would have taken a long time to know by progressing on
the road.

An “out-of-pattern time interval” means that you simply step out of, or lift
above, the linear track. In that raised or elevated position you may be able to
see, that where you thought going in this direction would get you where you
were wanting to go, it in fact will not, that you actually need to go east. And
so the perspective that you are experiencing will save you time, time to learn
what moving in a linear fashion would require time to learn.

Now, another way I’ll put it is this. When you’re absolutely sure of something,
when you’re absolutely sure that things are not going well, that everything is
going down the tubes, and when your absolutely sure that circumstances are such
that there’s no alternative to this track that things are on, you lock
yourselves in to not seeing it any other way.

But, if you are willing to consciously stop and become still with a curiosity
to see things differently, to see a way that you can’t see at the moment, when
you are willing even momentarily to consciously abandon your confidence in how
terminal your experience is going to be, then there is a space into which
clarity can penetrate. And that clarity, for lack of better words, moves you
ahead [snap of the fingers] instantly into the realization of what to do to
have a different experience without your having to go through a linear thinking
process of reasoning to arrive at a different way of looking at it. And so
[snap of the fingers] there is an instantaneous clarity that didn’t take time.
You stepped out of the time sense which is inherent in thinking processes.

That’s it in a nutshell.

Let’s continue on.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[Miracle Principle #48] 
{: .omit}

The miracle is the only device at your immediate
disposal for controlling time. Only revelation transcends it, having nothing to
do with time at all. 
</div> 

It’s an interesting choice of words, “controlling time.” The only thing it
really allows you to control is the apparent inevitability of having to take
time to learn. Because it literally puts you out of time, it controls time in
the respect that it causes time to stop controlling you.

Okay.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
May I ask a question?
</div> 

You may.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Could you&hellip; what’s the difference between miracle and revelation?
</div> 

Ah. That’s coming soon. [audience laughter]

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay.
</div> 

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[Miracle Principle #49] 
{: .omit}

The miracle makes no distinction among degrees of
misperception. It is a device for perception-correction, effective quite apart
from either the degree or the direction of the error. This is its true
indiscriminateness. 
</div> 

Yes. A misperception is a misperception. It’s the consequences of
a misperception that seem to be consequential, big or little. But
a misperception is just a misperception. And there is not a big misperception
and a little misperception, any more than the life expressed in a gnat is any
less life than the life expressed in an elephant. You see what I’m saying?
There are not degrees of life. It is whole. It is fully life, whether it’s
a flea or an elephant that you’re talking about.

A misperception is simply a misperception, and a miracle is simply a correction
of it. Because misperceptions have no degrees of size, we will say, then it
doesn’t take a bigger miracle to correct one misperception than it takes to
correct another. And this is very important. It’s important to understand,
because if you understand it, you will realize how beneficial it is to do
nothing more than to stop in your tracks when you’re dead sure that everything
is going wrong and you’d better brace yourself for it, and express a little bit
of, I’m going to say, innocent curiosity. And by that I mean curiosity that
isn’t colored by your confidence that everything is actually going to collapse.

With that little bit of willingness, it allows the little bit of clarity [snap
of the fingers] that spontaneously corrects the misperception which has no
size. You see? So the problem, or truly the consequences to the problem you
perceive are not any more difficult to correct by insider clarification than
another which you would deem to be a little problem. So it’s very important to
understand this because it will give you a sense of the ease with which the
problem can be solved. Because the solving of the problem will come with the
correction of a misperception and corrections of misperception are utterly
simple.

Okay, let’s continue. I know many of you thought we would never get to Miracle
Principle Number 50, but we have.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[Miracle Principle #50] 
{: .omit}

The miracle compares what you have made with creation,
accepting what is in accord with it as true, and rejecting what is out of
accord as false. 
</div> 

For those of you who aren’t familiar with the language, or the use of language,
in the Course, this says:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The miracle compares what you have made&hellip; 
</div> 

&hellip; what you have made, meaning the definitions that you have given to
everything that you’re absolutely sure of and which you would stake your life
on, as opposed to What It Is Actually as God Is Being It right now, which is
Creation. So it compares what you, we will say, what you have made-up in your
own mind, it compares what you have made-up with What Creation Actually Is,
accepting what is in accord with it as True. Because you don’t misperceive
everything totally, and so some of what you experience is a true apprehension
of What It Really Is. So it compares this [snap of the fingers] sudden shift of
awareness, compares what is in accord with Creation as True and rejecting what
is out of accord as false. And mind you this happens within you as an
experience, not really as an intellectual process.

You experience a new way of looking at it in which you just suddenly see that
the way you had been interpreting it was false, and because it’s obviously
false to you at an experiential level within you, you discard it, because it’s
obviously not useful to you anymore. So you see, you can instantaneously
experience… you can have an instantaneous experience that suddenly puts you in
a new place without there having been any process to it. And that’s the nature
of a miracle.

Now once again I will share with you that a shift of perception always has an
effect. Not just on the way you’re looking at things, but it has an effect on
the way you behave toward your world. It has an effect on the way you behave toward
your Brother. And whether you put into words the clarification that has
happened in you, that clarification, that truer perception of your Brother, or
of your world, is felt. And it truly instigates, or gives impetus to, change
from your world. Some of the changes might be termed “miraculous,” like an
instantaneous healing of a disease, or an instantaneous harmonizing of
a relationship without having to go through psychological processes called
therapy.

There may be effects which others would call miraculous, but those aren’t the
miracle. The miracle is you having allowed, one way or another, a moment of
defenselessness within yourself, a moment where you weren’t reinforcing your
confidences in your definitions about everything, so that there was a space
where What’s Really Going On could register with you. That’s the meaning of the
word “miracle” as it’s used in the Course. That is the miracle.

And that is utterly simple, isn’t it? You don’t have to go to college and get
a degree to arrive at this. You don’t have to effort at all. In fact, the
miracle happens in the absence of personal effort. It happens in… it happens in
a moment of humility. It happens in a moment of peace. It happens in a moment
of effortlessness. It happens in a moment when you are not putting effort
forth. That’s how simple it. And I say this so that you might recognize the
extreme value of moments in which you have abandoned willfulness.

Before we leave this list of the Miracle Principles, does anyone have any
comments or questions, besides Michael? [audience laughter]

Michael.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I was listening to a September 15th CD of these meetings, and there was one of
the numbered articles here that talked about confusion of levels of perception.
No. Confusion of levels, it talked about. And you said that there was no reason
to go into that at that time. And the interesting thing about it was that in
order to&hellip; say for instance, we live in the third dimension, and&hellip;
</div> 

Continue.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay. We’re living in a three dimensional frame of reference, and there’s over
top of this there’s a fourth dimensional frame of reference. And so I got the
impression what when it talked about a confusion of levels, is that we’re
mistaking a fourth dimensional experience for a three dimensional experience,
and vice versa. And so, I don’t know which article it was, but this&hellip;
I have&hellip; my question is about this confusion of levels. And if you could
at this time explain to us what it meant by confusion of levels.
</div> 

Well, it still is not time to discuss it.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
But you’ll let me know when it’s time&hellip;
</div> 

But don’t worry. We will discuss it.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
&hellip; so I can be here?
</div> 

Yes.

Okay. Thank you.

I will tell you that you’re not far off track but we simply won’t go into it
further at this time.

Any other:

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
You wanted me to have the microphone? [couldn’t hear voice replying in the
audience] Okay. Where are we? Okay.
</div> 

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*Revelation, Time and Miracles*
</div> 

Section II.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Section II. And do I start at revelation?
</div> 

Indeed. Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay.
</div> 

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Revelation induces complete but temporary suspension of doubt and fear. It
reflects the original form of communication between God and His creations,
involving the extremely personal sense of creation sometimes sought in physical
relationships. Physical closeness cannot achieve it. Miracles, however, are
genuinely interpersonal, and result in true closeness to others. Revelation
unites you directly with God. 
</div> 

I’m going to interrupt you here.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay.
</div> 

You asked, Michael, what the difference was between miracles and revelation.
Revelation unites you directly with God, and miracles unite you directly with
your Brother. And I would add that they connect you directly with your world as
well, because miracles are the experience you have of being relieved of
a misperception of your Brother that causes you to behave toward him in a way
that is inconsistent with the behavior you would have toward a Son or Daughter
of God. A miracle causes you, as I said earlier, to recognize the Divinity of
your Brother. In other words, he’s not the bastard you thought he was, or he’s
not the one who cheated you out of something. You see him, you experience in an
undeniable fashion his Divinity. And as I’ve also pointed out, when that
clarity is uncovered in your mind, there is a simultaneous clarity that this is
true of you as well, and you see your Innocence and you see your Divinity.

Now, you suddenly find yourself considering this person defenselessly. And when
you are relating to someone defenselessly, you are experiencing the true
meaning of intimacy. This is very important. It’s the same with God.
Revelations connect you with God, because you are not defended against the
Experience of God. You are in a state of humility in order to have the
experience, to have revelation. And, it is, for lack of better words, a very
intimate experience, absolutely intimate, because there’s nothing separating
you. You are holding no definitions. You’re holding no personal right to have
your own take on everything. And in the absence of the dissonance that having
a different point of view introduces, you find yourself inseparably one with
God, even though you find yourself yielding to and cooperating with Him.

And that’s the kind of intimacy that everyone does look for in their
relationship with their fellow man or fellow woman. They look for that
undefended intimacy that occurs when each of them yield to each other. See?
Most everyone literally gets screwed up when they try to either get or give
something to another in the expression of intimate lovemaking, when what
they’re after is to be found in yielding to each other. Another very important
point. And in truly yielding to each other, instead of trying to give or get,
it is a taste of Heaven, because it is a taste of Reality, and it can be
a threshold, or the threshold of a miracle.

And that’s all I’ll say about that at the moment.

Continue&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So let’s see. We said:
</div> 

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Revelation unites you directly with God. Miracles unite you directly with your
brother. Neither emanates from consciousness, but both are experienced there. 
</div> 

Let’s stop there.

In the New Age there is so much thought given and expression given to the idea
that you create your world, that your consciousness is creative, and so on.
Well let’s be very clear. Your consciousness… your consciousness only seems to
have the capacity to create a misperception of Reality. But it doesn’t have the
capacity to actually create anything. It can only create confusion by allowing
you to come to a conclusion that is not true, and then allowing you to believe
your untrue conclusion. Consciousness is not unreal, it just isn’t the seat of
creativity. It is like a field of awareness in which revelation is experienced,
and where miracles are experienced as long as they are needed.

Continue.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Consciousness is the state that induces action, though it does not inspire it. 
</div> 

And I want you to stop there because this is very important. You will find as
we continue through the Course that there is a sentence that everyone loves to
use and doesn’t have the slightest understanding of. And the statement is, “You
need do nothing.” Consciousness is the state that induces what? Action! It’s
a small word in this sentence, and it isn’t said in a way that gives it
emphasis, but I want to take the opportunity here to point out that action is
a necessary and appropriate and Divine element of Being.

And you know what? When you experience revelation or a miracle in which you see
your Brother or your world more truly as it is in its Divine aspect, what did
I say happens? Your behavior toward your world, or your Brother, changes. The
way you act changes. It inspires new action.

Continue.

No, let her finish the next sentence.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You are free to believe what you choose, and what you do attests to what you
believe. 
</div> 

There you go. You are free to believe what you choose. What you choose. And if
you choose to create definitions that are at odds with the Meaning God is
giving everything, then that is what you will believe and what you do will
carry out your belief. So you’re free to believe what you choose. You’re also
free to believe what you haven’t chosen. In other words, you are free to
believe what is revealed to you when you have dared to be inquisitive to know
of God, “What is the Truth here? What is really going on here? Who is this
Brother that, at the moment, I can’t help but define as a real pain in the
ass?” You see?

And then if you believe what is revealed to you, what you do will attest to
that. So either you’re going to act on the basis of what you have made, what
you have made-up, about what the world is, or you will do what attests to your
willing allegiance to the Truth that has been revealed to you, because you were
curious enough to look beyond your best definitions.

Okay. Yes, Michael.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Previously we talked about involvement, and I was curious as to how involvement
fits in here. Do miracles&hellip; is involvement the field in which miracles
take place, or do miracles induce involvement with your Brother or Sister, or
are both true, are both possibilities?
</div> 

Please ask the question again.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay. We had previously talked about involvement and how it’s necessary and
important to become involved with one another. And I was curious. You had
mentioned consciousness as a field where action takes place. And I was curious
is&hellip; in other words, when we become involved with others, you know,
through saying, “I want to be involved with others,” does that set the field
where miracles can take place? Or do miracles induce spontaneous desire to
become involved? Or are both possibilities?
</div> 

Both are possibilities. Miracles, the shift of perception that causes you to
see your Brother differently, causes you to be willing to be involved because
you see their True Nature. And their True Nature is one of Innocence and
Lovableness and Beauty and Integrity, and so on. And when you see that, you are
attracted toward it and you can’t help but be involved.

On the other hand, if you haven’t had that insight and you nevertheless desire
to be involved with your Brother, the involvement&hellip; well I am going to
put it this way. The involvement will uncover whatever subtle resistances you
have to being in relationship with them. It will cover up your idiosyncratic
concepts about what a relationship ought to be, for example. And your partner’s
unwillingness to fit into the definitions you have, will uncover a call for
a new point of view. And either you will become curious as to What The Truth Is
here in this relationship, in spite of the fact that it’s not matching up with
your definition of what a relationship ought to be. That will set the stage for
[snap of fingers] the miracle to occur, the sudden shift of perception to
occur. And then, of course, once that occurs involvement shifts onto a new
basis. You understand?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yes.
</div> 

Okay.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Revelation is intensely personal and cannot be meaningfully translated. 
</div> 

And I am going to interrupt you.

Usually the word “personal” refers to one’s ego, one’s personality. Revelation
is intensely personal. It would be better understood as intensely intimate. You
might even say intensely private.

Continue.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
That is why any attempt to describe it in words is impossible. Revelation
induces only experience. Miracles, on the other hand, induce action. They are
more useful now because of their interpersonal nature. In this phase of
learning, working miracles is important because freedom from fear cannot be
thrust upon you. Revelation is literally unspeakable because it is an
experience of unspeakable love. 
</div> 

That last sentence is absolutely true, and cannot be explained.

Working miracles is important because freedom from fear cannot be thrust upon
you. You cling to fear. You cling to fear whether you’ve thought about it or
not, because you believe that fear keeps you safe from the devil. You believe
that fear keeps you safe from your enemy. You believe that fear keeps you from
taking a wrong step. You believe that fear is an essential part of your makeup.
And you feel that if you did not have fear, you would behave foolishly and in
all likelihood would end up being irresponsible.

You don’t realize how much you value fear. You say, “I don’t want to be
afraid,” but you would not leave your house without having it in your hip
pocket. Because fear is what will keep you alert at the intersection. Fear is
what will keep your eyes on the alert for someone driving carelessly. Fear is
what will cause you to be sensible when you have a deadline to meet and you
might be inclined to drive too fast. You value fear so incredibly that if you
were to take a look at it, you would be shocked.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Raj.
</div> 

Just a moment.

So the release of fear cannot be thrust upon you. You must set it aside. You
must dare to choose for your peace. And I encourage you always to do this kind
of experiment when you are not under the gun, when you’re not in a situation
that does engender great fear, so that you might find that in your peace and in
the absence of fear, you are more able to be intelligent, you are more capable
of embracing a perspective that allows you to be utterly appropriate.

It is in the practice of setting fear aside and choosing for your peace that
you begin to have experiences that prove to you that the practice and
embodiment of fear is a total waste of time. But it is a waste of time that
utterly blocks you from the simple expression and embodiment of intelligence
that it is your Birthright to be experiencing, to be experiencing because it’s
your very Nature.

Continue.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Raj.
</div> 

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Is there such a thing as of value to be found in fear, fear reactions, to just
simple everyday living? Is there something in that that can teach us?
</div> 

Was there something that?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Something in our reactions. Something about our fearful reactions that we
experience that may have a value in&hellip; may have a teaching value for us?

[perhaps Raj was shaking his head “No” here] There’s no value at all.
[laughing]
</div> 

It can only have one value. And that is ultimately to teach you that to
practice and embody fear, blocks you absolutely from hearing God, blocks you
absolutely from the experience of a miracle. That it is the exact opposite of
what we were discussing last week about miracle-readiness.

Fear is a willful act. You think fear comes upon you. But you have determined
what are fearful conditions before the occasion for fear arises. And when the
definition of that which is fearful occurs, you then spontaneously and
willfully bring fear into play. And when you’re being willful, there is no
humility. There is no form of willfulness that has any effect other than
covering up and hiding from you your humility and the blessing that your
humility brings you.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I can say that I’m familiar with that experience
</div> 

Indeed.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And I don’t like it. I simply do not like it. And it’s&hellip; I’ve grown weary
of it. I don’t want it around my psyche, my surroundings, myself at all.
</div> 

Well just think about it. The experience of fear is debilitating. It’s
enervating. It will reduce you to you a heap, incapable of any form of action,
intelligent or otherwise. And it is never reasonable. It may be reasonable
according to the criteria you created about what is fearful. But ultimately it
is not reasonable. And that is the reason that fear cannot be dealt with
through reason.

If you are afraid of flying, people can talk ‘til they’re blue in the face
explaining to you and reasoning why you don’t need to be afraid. But fear is
unreasonable. And there is only one solution to it. You have to be willing to
be abandon it. Now, you say, “Well, how can I abandon something I’m not
creating? Fear comes upon me the closer I get to the plane.” And when you’re
sitting in your seat gripping the arm rails, there’s no way you can be
convinced that you are practicing and embodying fear. But, if someone points
out to you right there while you’re sitting with white knuckles holding the
arms of your seat in that plane that there’s something that you might be able
to do to help reduce the fear, see, without trying to invalidate the fear,
present an option.

That option being to meditate, to find some way to become still, to give your
attention in a direction other than the fear that seems to be consuming you.
And if you can find a little willingness to dishonor the fear enough to try to
become still, and you persist, because you don’t want to be consumed by fear,
and it’s not your Birthright to be consumed by fear. And ultimately you know
that the fear will deprive you of the freedom of flying, or of anything, and
you choose, through whatever form of meditation, to become still, you will find
the fear fading. And when the fear fades, you will see that it wasn’t&hellip;
it wasn’t for your safety that you were experiencing it, that it did not have
a valuable message for you, and that it wasn’t utterly real as you had believed
it to be. Because in the willingness to become still within yourself, this
seemingly unavoidable real thing faded.

And that’s the beginning of the undoing of fear. That’s the beginning of the
realization that it’s what you’re choosing to do with your mind that governs
whether you’re experiencing peace or fear.

Now, Peace, on the other hand, does not debilitate you, does not enervate you,
does not reduce you to a heap incapable of any action of any sort. It rather is
an experience of balance, and of inner integrity, and stability and security,
and an enhanced capacity to act intelligently. It therefore has all the
elements of that Which Is Real.

Does that answer your question?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yes, it most certainly does. Thank you very much.
</div> 

You are welcome.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So the flight or fight response which is said to be a basic biological response
is a learned response?
</div> 

Absolutely.

Years ago I had a near death experience.

Whether it was in the caveman days, if there were actually any caveman days…
and now children, newborns do not have a built-in flight or fight response. And
when you go to different cultures today, you will find that the flight or
flight responses are different because of the conditioning, because of the
education. It is absolutely learned.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Years ago I had a near death experience, and where I actually thought that
I was going to die, and became curious when all hope was lost, I became curious
as to what the transition would be like. And that’s where my curiosity became
fixed. And then through a simple twist of fate, or so it seemed at the time,
I was snatched from the jaws of death. And what I found had happened is because
I no longer feared death, or had set my fear of death aside, I became what felt
to me like literally fearless. And it was such a feeling of relief, like
a weight had been lifted off of me, and everything in my life was joyful and
beautiful and I was the happiest I’d ever been. And that lasted for about
a week, and then just… it seemed like I drifted back into fear. Could I have
done something to preserve that feeling, or was it just like a revelation that
just comes and goes as it will?
</div> 

The experience you had was one you had no control over. And at the time you
didn’t realize the degree to which you are controlled by your conditioned
responses, and so life itself presented you with circumstances that brought
your conditioned responses back into play.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
It was so subtle. I mean it was&hellip; why would&hellip; I mean I&hellip; no
way in the world would I ever consciously choose to go back to a fear state.
I mean it was such a&hellip; life was&hellip; was&hellip; it’s unexplainable.
I mean it was just a totally different way of being.
</div> 

Indeed.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And it gave me the recognition of how everyone is under this tremendous burden
of fear. I mean it’s crushing. And it’s like being in a room with a strong
smell, and after a while you don’t even know that you’re in the room with
a strong smell.
</div> 

Indeed.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And so you don’t even know you’re being crushed until the weight’s lifted off
and you go, “Oh my God, how different it is!”
</div> 

Yes. But you had two realizations. One was what you described. How terribly
burdened everyone is by fear. But you had another realization too, and that was
that there’s another experience available. A blissful experience that’s
available. A grounded blissful experience. And that the fear was illegitimate.
That you had been boundless. Now why aren’t you holding onto that awareness,
rather than the burden that everyone is laboring under?

There’s another factor here. You will never forget that experience. You will
never forget the feel of it, even though you’re not feeling it at the moment.
Because you will never forget it, you have forever been changed, and you are
not as available to be totally confused about fear again. You will forever be
less confused. So you’re in a new place and I encourage you to remember the
experience frequently. It would be well for you to remind yourself of the
experience and pause a moment to experience the memory of the feel of it,
because that in itself will contribute to the precipitation of another influx
of the experience. Invite it by not denying it. And stop denying it by
remembering it.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Thank you.
</div> 

You’re welcome.

Would you pass it to Chris?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
CHRIS: Yeah, there’s a question from someone online who wanted to ask it, so
I’ll just go ahead and ask the question here. He says, “My question is about
the use of the term “in the end.” And he was wondering what was the intention
behind “in the end,” like “in the end of what”, or “as an end to the learning
of the lesson at hand”? And so that was from the original dictation of the
section that we’re reading. He says that it said, “in the end miracles are more
useful than revelation,” rather than “miracles are more useful now.”
</div> 

Another way of putting that is “ultimately,” instead of “in the end.” Or “for
all practical purposes.” But there is also an end to the dream. There’s an end
to the call for miracles. When there is an end on everyone’s part to be able to
creatively define what the world means without asking God for the Meaning of
what it means, then you will come back into your Right Mind. You will awaken.
You will have come Home, and there will be no further apparent process of
coming back into your Right Mind.

Okay.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Awe should be reserved for revelation, to which it is perfectly and correctly
applicable. It is not appropriate for miracles because a state of awe is
worshipful, implying that one of a lesser order stands before his Creator. 
</div> 

Do you see what this means? Revelation is a Direct Experience of God, and there
you are in the Presence of your Creator. And that is where awe is appropriate.
And I will tell you that awe is spontaneous. [audience laughter] There is no
thought one gives. It… awe is inevitable and spontaneous. Miracles, again,
constitute a direct connectedness with your Brother as the Divine One That He
Is, and consequently the awareness of the Divine One That You Are. And in that
mutual awareness of one’s God-ness, I’m going to say, or Divinity, it
constitutes an intimacy, an undefended closeness with your Brother who is not
God. And although the experience is one of pure Love, it is not awesome.

You, when you have the experience for the first time, are likely to describe it
as awesome, but I will tell you that you will not be experiencing awe. You will
be experiencing Love clearly for the first time, which is an incredible
experience, when for God knows how long you haven’t been experiencing What Love
Truly Is.

Okay, continue&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You are a perfect creation, and should experience awe only in the presence of
the Creator of perfection. The miracle is therefore a sign of love among
equals. Equals should not be in awe of one another because awe implies
inequality. 
</div> 

I will tell you this. When the clarity about the Divinity of your Brother dawns
in your thought, it’s impossible to perceive any sense of inequality between
you. That’s why it’s so easy to be defenseless with this Brother. And this is
why your newly found ability to be defenseless with your Brother is
transformational to your experience. It is the practice of defense that causes
relationships to be tense and to proceed to inevitably deteriorate.

Continue&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is therefore an inappropriate reaction to me. 
</div>

Ahhh!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Equals should not be in awe of one another because awe implies inequality. It
is therefore an inappropriate reaction to me. 
</div> 

Indeed. The me is the Christ.

I’m going to read the next sentence.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
An elder brother is entitled to respect for his greater experience, and
obedience for his greater wisdom. He is also entitled to love because he is
a brother, and to devotion if he is devoted. It is only my devotion that
entitles me to yours. 
</div> 

I will share again that someone who spoke with me frequently had in her living
room on a pedestal a bust of me. And I told her she needed to put a sign on the
pedestal that said, “If you have not seen yourself in me, you haven’t seen me.”

This is so important. Because to whatever degree you make a difference between
yourself and me, you distance yourself. You create a wall. You disallow for…
well you disallow for yourself to feel my Love for you. Because if you’re less
than me, you’re less worthy than me and you’re less worthy of my Love. And by
your definition of yourself being somehow different from me, you imprison
yourself in a state of lack that isn’t true about yourself. And you imprison
yourself in a lack of ability to bond with me and to experience my Love for
you.

And if you would let yourself experience it for just a moment, you would
realize that you have to be, for lack of better words, sinless, and that
therefore that must be the Truth about you, in spite of how you’ve defined
yourself. And by allowing this to happen by not insisting upon seeing
a differentness about us, you open the door for change within yourself. You
open the door for you to experience yourself as the Father Is Being You. To
experience yourself as You Truly Are and always have been, even though your
self-created definition of yourself has gotten your full allegiance for who
knows how long.

So, this is what I would say. “If you are seeing a difference between Me and
Thee, cut it out. It’s not true. I am not more special than you, which either
means I am as un-special as you see yourself to be, or you are as special as
I am. But if you’re as special as I am, then there’s no contrast. And there’s
nothing special about either one of us, except that we are simply Brother and
Sister, Brother and Brother, Sister and Brother, who are the immediate in the
moment Expression of God, which isn’t special either, except that it is an
Experience of Being that is unflawed, that has nothing extraneous to it, and
therefore is utterly pure, *infinitely* utterly pure.”

And the experience of purity is awesome. Is awesome. And so the experience is
blissful and the experience is available at every single moment and what I keep
saying is that the only thing that keeps you from your experiencing it is the
really shitty definitions that you’ve given yourself and made complete
commitment to. And if you’re willing to let there be just a little chink in
your definition, if there’s a willingness to just slightly doubt it, or even if
there is the willingness to say, “Well, I am positive about what I believe
about myself, but, God, if you can get through my confidence, I would like to
hear. I would like to experience from you something about the Truth of me that
would begin to dissolve my confidence in my definition.”

All you have to do is be willing to reach out and ask. You may not be willing
to hear, right away, but if you continue to ask, the willingness to hear will
increase. And it’s just that little willingness that constitutes the little
chink in your defense, in your confidence, that lets the experience penetrate.

Okay&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is nothing about me that you cannot attain. I have nothing that does not
come from God. 
</div> 

I’m going to interrupt again. The use of the word “attain” there is good, but
the reason you can attain it is because you already have it. The reason you can
attain it is because no matter how poorly you define yourself, God never stops
defining you on His Terms. And therefore what you… what you ultimately will
experience as your Self is the Self that is present at this moment but you’re
ignoring in favor of the lousy definition you’ve made commitment to about
yourself. So you can attain it because you already are it. It already is you.
And so, the attainment isn’t progressive.

It’s not&hellip; 

(&hellip; this is me, Paul. Just a moment. This is me, Paul. Darwin’s theory talks
about evolution.)

It’s not a process of evolution where you’re going from less to more, or
primitive to ultimate. It’s why “the journey” (in quotes) has been referred to
as “a journey without distance,” because what it amounts to is You, the only
one You could ever possibly be, which is the Presence of God in Action, having
experienced a mild form of insanity, coming back into his or her Right Mind.
That’s the journey without distance.

And the reason you can come back into your Right Mind is because you have
a Right Mind that you abandoned in favor of some peculiar and interesting and
stimulating definitions of things that made life somewhat scary for you, and
therefore exciting and thrilling, as well as disturbing, because it wasn’t as
boring as blissful peace.

So, there is nothing about me that you cannot attain because you never lost it.
You’ve just chosen to ignore it. That’s important. Otherwise you will
creatively envision a great distance that it probably will be impossible for
you to surmount in order to attain what I have attained. Well that’s crap.

Okay, continue&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I have nothing that does not come from God. The difference between us now is
that I have nothing else. 
</div> 

Ahhh. In other words, nothing extraneous, no embellishments. Your egos are all
embellishments. Your personality is an embellishment draped around and frilled
around the Christ that you are. And it is done with such interesting design and
folderol and color and outline, and distracting busy-ness that even you have
forgotten that it’s a covering, and that it’s extraneous and it’s added. And
the amazing thing is that you don’t realize that the added frills are pure
nonsense that you’re treating as though it were real.

So unlike the Emperor who’s strutting his new clothes, who’s naked, you
are&hellip;

(Just a moment. I’m sorry I lost it. It’s me, Paul. I lost it.)

Well, the point is that you need to arrive at a point of being satisfied with
the Essential You without all the frills added. Because the Essential You
without the frills is the Ultimate You, the Christ, the immaculate Expression
of God. And you must understand that that is What You Are at this very moment
in what appears to be this living room, on these pieces of furniture and chairs
and sofas, et cetera, and that we’re not talking about pie in the sky after you
die, as it’s been said. And the miracle, the sudden shift of perception that
would uncover to you the Christ, the Christs, that are right here is available
to you right now. And because misperceptions have no degree of severity to
them, or magnitude to them, the correction of the perception that’s called for
is also little.

And so what we’re talking about is utterly easy in this moment. And the call is
for you to accept that it’s something utterly simple, and let yourself become
simple, instead of complex. And yield into it, instead of trying to improve
yourself, or refine your soul, or attain something that you are not yet. And
as I’ve said, you don’t have to go to college. You can allow yourself to have
innocent moments on the freeway, in your bathroom, at your desk at work,
while you’re changing a diaper. You can allow yourself to be innocent of your
confidences and curious to see beyond what you’re currently seeing without
any process, or ritual, or ceremony. This is an excellent point to stop for
the evening.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Thank you.
</div> 

Thank you.

[^1]: Students – commenting or asking a question. 
[^2]: ACIM 2nd Edition: T1.I Principles of Miracles, Principle 47

