---
title: Sept 18, 2002
ref: T1.II Revelation, Time and Miracles
---

Good evening.

Last week we didn’t quite finish the paragraph. At the end of it, it says:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is nothing about me that you cannot attain.[^1]
</div> 

And I made it quite clear that it is not a matter of attaining something that
you do not now have, or that you are not yet, because you in your Totality are
always totally present, whether you’re ignoring part of yourself or not. And
it’s important to understand this so that you or your ego does not project
a picture in front of you of a great distance to go full of difficulty before
you can attain enlightenment.

Enlightenment isn’t knowledge that you will acquire. Enlightenment is you being
in your Right Mind. It is you not being unconscious of any aspect of your
Infinite Self, an Infinite Self that is present and is what you are
experiencing through squinted eyes, and therefore through a partial perception
of What You Are at this very moment in your Totality.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I have nothing that does not come from God. 
</div> 

And I would say *you* who have nothing that does not come God, although you *seem*
to have extra frills that you have added to yourself imaginatively through the
use of imagination.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The difference between us now is that I have nothing else. This leaves me in
a state which is only potential in you. 
</div> 

And I will say it’s potential and actual at the same time. It’s only potential
in you at the moment because you are conscientiously engaged in interposing
definitions of everything which you prefer to What God Is Actually Being there,
because you get an ego hit from being apparently and deludedly capable of
having a private creation of your own. The hit you get from this very real
seeming fantasy that you can create something is what addicts you to your
attachment to illusion rather than desiring to know What Is Real. What I want
you to know is that the shift from potential to actual is a simple shift
facilitated by a curiosity to experience the Reality of everything you’re
experiencing. So you will hear me harping on the simplicity of awakening, the
simplicity of shifting from potential to actual. In a way it’s the simplicity
of a miracle, which is a sudden shift of perception.

Okay. Let us continue with the next paragraph.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
“No man cometh unto the Father but by me” does not mean that I am in any way
separate or different from you except in time, and time does not really exist.
The statement is more meaningful in terms of a vertical rather than
a horizontal axis. 
</div> 

Which we discussed last week.

Continue.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You stand below me and I stand below God. In the process of “rising up,” I am
higher because without me the distance between God and man would be too great
for you to encompass. I bridge the distance as an elder brother to you on the
one hand, and as a Son of God on the other. My devotion to my brothers has
placed me in charge of the Sonship, which I render complete because I share
it. 
</div> 

I’m going to stop you there.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; which I render complete because I share it. 
</div> 

Keep in mind that ultimately it is your job to also render it complete by
sharing it. In other words, as you let in the clearer experience of Reality, as
you let the Father’s Love in because you desire to extend it, you, for lack of
better words, complete the circuit. The key lies in the willingness to share
it. You see?

You will never be in charge of the Sonship, but beginning to have a devotion to
your Brothers and sharing it, is like bringing both poles of a battery into
play, where there is power, where there is a completed circuit.

Continue.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay, I’m a little unclear so for all of us people who are unclear, what’s the
“it” exactly that you’re&hellip; ?[^2]
</div> 

The “it” is my devotion to my Brothers.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So I shared my devotion?
</div> 

Indeed, I extend it.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Not yours.
</div> 

Pardon.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Not yours. Mine. So, like that’s something that I think people get really
confused. They share your devotion and not theirs.
</div> 

Ah. Ultimately your devotion to your Brothers is expressed by your turning to
the Father and asking, “What is appropriate for me to be in this circumstance
or this situation? Show me what to do.” And the Father shows you what to do and
Love finds expression in you that is extended to your Brothers, uncovering your
Brothers’ innocence, and yours as well. But, as I’ve said before, you have to
have an object of your affection. And that is what your devotion to your
Brothers is. It’s you having an object of your affection.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay.

You’re in charge of the Sonship, is that something like what’s described in the
Urantia Book in Michael in charge of the Sonship?
</div> 

You could say that. Yes. I am in charge of the Sonship in the sense that it is
my Function to facilitate the Sonship coming back into full Conscious Awareness
of its Divinity so that no part of the Sonship seems to be separated off from
another not experiencing its Unity and inseparability.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I’m appreciating how I’m beginning to experience you being there for us.
</div> 

Then you are beginning to understand *your* real value to your Brothers. Exactly.

You have an example so that you may, shall I say, reproduce the example. You do
not have the example so that you can say, “Wow. I am significantly loved and
blessed, and I know that my Brother is significantly loved and blessed by Jesus
as well,” and then go along your way doing your things without having
a conscious, committed, intimate relationship with your Brother where you
extend it because you have a devotion to him, or her. You see?

This isn’t about everyone realizing how wonderful I am, or how significantly
blessed you are because I exist and haven’t shirked the opportunity to be
devoted to you. That’s not what it’s about. It’s about you having that
experience and realizing that indeed this is your Function as well—to be
devoted to your Brothers and Sisters, to begin to be involved in a brand-new
way, not at the level of manipulation for self-protection, but at a level of
relating to your Brother for the sole purpose of mentoring, being a blessing to
your Brother or Sister.

If you are Love embodied because that is what the Father is embodying as you,
then your Function is to be consciously experiencing being Love. It’s an
interesting thing, when you let Love, when you let the Father’s Love through
you so that it illuminates the Truth about your Brother, the illumination that
illuminates your Brother castes back on you.

And if you are not devoted to your Brother and you are not extending Love, the
darkness that is there is the darkness that is where you are. Once you all get
this, you will with diligence and commitment and seriousness and reverence
address your Brother consciously in a mentoring fashion. And you will catch
yourself and squelch any old habits that attempt to surface that would have you
stand in judgment of your Brother, because in doing that, you withdraw the
Light from him and from you. What I’m trying to convey here is that you cannot
have the Love of God register with you until you have extended it to your
Brother. And don’t think you can.

You can’t have a private blessing. Privacy is the derivation of the human
condition which all of you profess to want to escape. And because you have
&hellip; because you are escaping from privacy, it seems logical to you that you
can wake up privately, that waking up is just a new but glorified way of being
independent. And it’s not true.

Let’s continue&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This may appear to contradict the statement “I and my Father are one,” but
there are two parts to the statement in recognition that the Father is greater. 
</div> 

Ah yes, humbling words.

I’m going to put it this way. If you will imagine that you’re a puppet hanging
from the strings that the Father is holding, you will know exactly where you
stand in Reality. But when you let yourself be the puppet of God, the
Expression of God, and you’re not attempting to introduce any original
movements as a puppet without strings, then you will find that your cooperation
with the way the Father is moving you amounts to what is called co-creation.
When you are yielding to What The Father Is Being right where you are, you are
joined with the Father in His Being of you. And His *Being* of you, *be-ing* of
you, is always relative to every Aspect of the Infinity of Creation, which
means that you’re yielding to His Being All There Is of you will bring you into
a full Conscious Awareness of Creation Infinitely *and* your absolute
inseparability from It—an Experience of Wholeness.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I can see where this could be an area of a lot of confusion, and even
resentment, in that the confusion lies in authorship. For example, here I am
living my life and I say that I’m following this feeling inside me that I need
to go and do this, or accomplish, or whatever it is, a career, or
a relationship, or whatever we do, and the confusion about the authorship of
that, of saying, “Well, it’s God moving me into it.” And the other area of
resentment is we are so&hellip; I mean&hellip; I’ve heard this statement before,
but when I first heard it, ooooh. I’m a puppet on string? I mean the very
thought is just&hellip; how I should I say it, almost as if aliens took my body
over, or I’m no longer in control, or&hellip; You see what I mean?
</div> 

Indeed.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And I am coalescing to these concepts, but nevertheless when I hear them
I still feel that confusion of saying, “How can I be sure who/where the
authorship comes from?” And the second thing, of course, is the whole concept
of being in control.
</div> 

Indeed.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I just wanted to make that statement.
</div> 

Yes. It is exactly the reason I use the illustration of the puppet, because it
cuts to the chase. It addresses the specific issue that every one of you needs
to look at.

“Our Father who art in Heaven,” you say. And if you go to church you say it
every Sunday.

“Hallowed be Thy Name.”

“Thy Kingdom come.” Oh, that’s wonderful isn’t it? The thought of it, “Thy
Kingdom come.”

“Thy Will be done in earth as it is in Heaven.” You say that, but you never
stop to really think about what it means.

“Thy Will be done, not mine.” Thy Will—if that doesn’t mean being a puppet,
what does it mean? If yielding to the Father’s Will is your Function, then what
are you but a puppet of the Father?

You don’t mind using the words, “Well, I’m an Expression of God.” But an
Expression of God is God expressing Himself. It isn’t something separate from
God expressing itself. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And you are a puppet, too?
</div> 

Absolutely. At this moment I am yielding to the Father, Paul is yielding to me,
Paul is yielding to the Father.

He doesn’t have the fullness of the experience of it yet, but the more he’s
willing to allow this to happen, the sooner there will be a spontaneous
remembering of when he wasn’t adding frills, when he wasn’t trying to do
independent movements as a puppet without strings. And as you can see, what
causes him to do it is that he cares about *you*. He has an object of his
affection.

Today he had a very, very, strenuous, emotional day—almost overwhelming. But
being willing to be devoted to you took higher priority tonight than hitting
the sack, or submerging himself in a movie on TV. So, he could have tried to
engage in independent movements. He also could have found that upon his
willingness to be devoted to you and turning to me, he could have found, and
you could have found, that I might have said there will be no meeting tonight
because under the circumstances it doesn’t fulfill purpose.

You see, when you yield, you don’t know *what* will happen, one way or the other.
What you can count on happening here is that when he yields to me, when Paul
yields to me, and I am yielding to the Father, everyone will be blessed,
because that’s the Nature of Love.

Does that answer your question?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yes.

In dealing with what you were just talking about, I’ve often used the construct
that by yielding into the Father’s Will, what I’m doing is yielding into
a larger me, which takes away some of the fear part of that whole issue of
yielding into the Father’s Will, being the Father’s puppet essentially. And my
question to you is&hellip;
</div> 

But where did that image come from or that concept come from?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
It came from knowing that I’m much larger than I allow myself to see.
</div> 

But where did that knowing come from?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Mmm. It came from somewhere inside.
</div> 

Before or after you got in touch with your Guide?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Mmm. It may have been before. I’m not&hellip; I can’t place the time.
</div> 

The knowing came after. After you consciously let in help. Let in, allow for
joining.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Oh, I see what you’re saying. Yes. Because I was wrestling with the issue
before that and didn’t know what to do with it.
</div> 

Before that it would just have been an idea, not a knowing.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Right.
</div> 

But you feel it. And the feeling comes when someone joins with you who is aware
of his bigness, if I may put it that way. Continue.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And I guess my question is am I avoiding, by using that construct, am
I avoiding some little step here in terms of yielding fully to the Father.
Because it’s helpful, it’s comforting to think of it in that way. Yet, there’s…
I’m not seeing how large I am, and so if I yield, then I become larger, and
I recognize the comfort and the security of that. But I’m wondering if that
isn’t at the same time holding back and saying, “Okay, Father, here I am
totally naked. I accept I’m your puppet and let’s go from there.”
</div> 

Well, the larger you is still a puppet.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Mmm. [laughing] [audience laughter] Bingo. [laughing] Okay.
</div> 

You see the Father is greater, and always will be greater.

You are not your source, and never will be. But when you are no longer claiming
a sense of self separate from and independent from your Source, then your
Source will be your constituting Presence. God will be the Presence, and the
only Presence, right where you are.

And it is not possible for you to grasp experientially at this point the fact
that you can still be you, and Paul can still be Paul, and you can experience
each other distinctly while at the same time experiencing the fact that you are
inseparably one. But that is what the fact will be. That is what the experience
will be.

Then you might say the two of you will do the dance God is dancing, and you
will appear to cooperate with each other, you will appear to move intelligently
with each other, you will be with each other in exquisitely beautiful ways, but
not because you’re expressing any independence from each other at all, or from
God.

I know, the ego says, “Well, then you’re just going to be some sort of
automaton or robot.” But you know what? As long as you buy into that and as
long as you have the intent of expressing an independent will, thereby
“proving” that you have independent existence, you will continue to experience
the human condition, which, as I said earlier, you all profess you want to
escape.

I have done it and I have not come back to you and said, “I am miserable,” and
your Guides have not said to you they are miserable. And the way they relate to
you, because it blesses you, demonstrates the fact that there is not misery in
them, because if there were, it would be reflected and embodied in their
guidance, and it would become your experience as well. Okay.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So no person that’s awake is asking you any questions. No Guide asks you any
questions.
</div> 

No. No. We all together know (k-n-o-w). We all together know that we know. And
we rejoice, we joy in the knowing. We joy in the communion of our knowing.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So in the dance no one ever misses a step.
</div> 

That is correct.

Let us continue.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Revelations are indirectly inspired by me because I am close to the Holy
Spirit, and alert to the revelation-readiness of my brothers. I can thus bring
down to them more than they can draw down to themselves. The Holy Spirit
mediates higher to lower communication, keeping the direct channel from God to
you open for revelation. Revelation is not reciprocal. It proceeds from God to
you, but not from you to God. 
</div> 

And it never will. Revelation will never be reciprocal. It will always proceed
from God to you. And it will never be from you to God.

You see that’s where you goof up when it comes to prayer, because you say here
I am, an independent mind, and you stand over somewhere in infinity and you
say, “Hey, God, I’m over here. Hey, God, may I have your attention please.” The
communication doesn’t actually work in that direction.

Prayer, as I’ve said before, is you saying, “Father, what is Your Will?” It
isn’t saying, “Please give me this. Please make my marriage&hellip; please save
my marriage. Hey, God, I’m over here. Here’s what I need. Here’s what I want.”

You say, “Father, what do I need?” and then you shut up and listen and be
receptive and stop resisting. How do you resist? By saying, “I should be able
to figure this out for myself,” or “I should be able to determine the manner in
which God will answer me.” Prayer is saying “Help,” listening, being receptive,
letting in, so that revelation can occur, and you can more clearly be the
Conscious Presence of God being All There Is right there where you are.

When you are awake, revelation, God expressing Himself, God expressing His
Will, God being All, will be your Conscious Experience of Being You. Not of you
being all, but of you being God consciously being All There Is. Your Conscious
Experience of Being will be God’s Conscious Experience of Being All. Revelation
will not then seem to come to you. It will be your Conscious Experience of
Being. Period.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So we stop for a moment to pray, “Father, what is Your Will?” and then we
listen.
</div> 

Indeed.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
If we’ve gone through those steps, is it possible not to hear the response?
</div> 

Only&hellip; yes, it is possible not to hear the response if there is still
willfulness present. If you say I want to hear God’s Will so that I can make
a killing in the stock market, or so that I can really do my wife a special
favor and gain her favor, or so that you can supposedly do something
independently with the gift the Father has given you, you will not hear the
answer.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
It’s just a lot of people seem to be asking and taking the time to listen, but
even fewer have a conscious experience of hearing the response.

On Sunday Robbie asked if&hellip; why she wasn’t able to hear, or “I can’t hear,”
and your reply was “Yes, you do,” which she accepted readily. “Oh, yeah,
I guess I do.”

People ask me about that and they say, “Well, I don’t hear God’s Voice.” And
I don’t understand how it’s possible not to when you put yourself in that
position.
</div> 

First of all, you don’t know what God’s Voice sounds like. And that in itself
causes you not to hear It because It’s new. And so that’s why it’s important to
persist in asking and listening, because there is always a response. Your
Guides are available to you constantly. Your Guides speak to you often. And you
don’t hear, first of all, because usually you’re not listening. You’re taking
care of everything yourself. But, once you learn that you have Guidance
available to you, then you begin to listen as though there is going to be
a response.

You’ve got to be willing to abide in the listening mode, so that you can begin
to make sense out of that space, so that the characteristics of silence, as
opposed to your busyness of thinking, can begin to register with you as
something other than just emptiness. The key is persistence. It’s as simple as
that.

Understand that every time you ask, you are responded to. Understand that your
Guide has ways to find effective means for registering with you. But,
understand that beginning to listen is the breaking up of long-standing habit
of active independence; an independence which is geared for being sustained by
not allowing anything to interfere with it. So don’t be surprised if you don’t
hear quickly.

And persist in the gentle desire to hear. When you ask a question, it helps to
ask it softly. Don’t yell it out into the universe. Don’t say it with
vehemence. Don’t say it with determination. It’s almost like homoeopathy—the
less there is of the substance, the more powerful it becomes. The gentler and
quieter your question, the easier it will be to hear because you are bringing
less willfulness into the act of asking.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So then even in the act of asking, we’re yielding to God’s Will.
</div> 

That is correct.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Thanks.
</div> 

You are welcome.

Let us continue.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The miracle minimizes the need for time. In the longitudinal or horizontal
plane the recognition of the equality of the members of the Sonship appears to
involve almost endless time. 
</div> 

Well, let’s just think about it for a moment. If you’re looking in a horizontal
plane, and let’s say in the horizontal plane you could see the tops of the
heads of all of the Brotherhood, it would extend to infinity. And for you to
manage to connect with each one of them would take an eternity to move to the
other end of infinity, so to speak, and to just say “Hi” to each one.

Continue.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
However, the miracle entails a sudden shift from horizontal to vertical
perception. This introduces an interval from which the giver and receiver both
emerge farther along in time than they would otherwise have been. 
</div> 

I will stop you there.

We talked about this a couple of weeks ago that if you are in a valley and you
cannot see which way it’s going to twist and turn, you seem to be at the mercy
of time and space because it will take time to move through the space of the
valley to arrive at a point where you can see whether or not the distance you
have traveled is actually helping you get to your destination. Whereas if you
were to climb to the top of the mountain and had the larger view, you could
from there see whether indeed that trail was going to get you to your
destination, or whether the opposite direction would get you there quicker. And
so by having the vertical viewpoint, it saves you time.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Is this principle represented by the axis mandali in shamanism, is that what
that’s talking about?
</div> 

Say that again.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
In shamanism the idea of the horizontal axis and the vertical axis intersecting
each other, is that what that principle is talking about, the same thing we’re
talking about here?
</div> 

You could say that. Yes. However, this example of horizontal and vertical
should not be relied upon in terms of physical definition. What it represents
is what happens when you have a problem that needs resolving, or something that
doesn’t work well, and suddenly one day [snap fingers] a light bulb goes on,
[snap fingers] an “Aha!” occurs, and suddenly you see a solution to the
problem. It is as though you were suddenly experiencing an overview. You were
able to look at it from a point outside of the problem itself, or outside of
the limitations you were experiencing when you were looking at the situation.
The “Aha!” you have may take a while to express or explain to someone else. But
the experience of the “Aha!” took place [snap of the fingers] in an instant of
time.

Now, when you desire of God to know the Truth about a Brother or about
a situation, and your reason for asking is because you have made that one an
object of your affection and you care and you are expressing a devotion, and
you want to be a mentor in this situation, you will find yourself because of
your quietly expressed desire, your gently expressed desire, you will find
yourself infilled with a new perspective, a sudden shift of perception that
will reveal your Brother or Sister to you in a new light, as I’ve said before.
His or her Divinity will be obvious to you, along with the realization of yours
as well.

There will be an intimacy whether you expressed the miracle, the sudden shift
of perception, or not. And the potential is there for your Brother or Sister to
experience instantaneous and sudden transformation as well in a moment, in the
twinkling of an eye. And the situation will be harmonized/resolved instantly
which otherwise might have taken days or weeks or months of therapy, or of
reasoning one’s way through the maze. You see?

There are no private thoughts. There are not only no private thoughts, there
are no private experiences. There is no private Love.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I see something that&hellip; habitually I look for meaning in symbols and
concepts, and now I see even more clearly that this is talking about my
experience that I’m having. And I just clutter the experience and clutter the
clarity by trying to relate it to some mystical symbol, or some concept I got
out of a book, or et cetera, et cetera.
</div> 

Absolutely. Besides in the sudden influx of shifted perception, you may find
new symbols to use in talking or sharing with others that will be more
effective than the old symbols were for triggering a new idea. Or you may, as
I have done tonight, use an old symbol for a new reason, like all of you are
puppets. And you’re all familiar with Pinocchio and being a puppet without
strings. So let symbols serve the revelation, rather than trying to start with
the symbol and have revelation work through it. Okay.

Continue.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The miracle thus has the unique property of abolishing time to the extent that
it renders the interval of time it spans unnecessary. There is no relationship
between the time a miracle takes and the time it covers. The miracle
substitutes for learning that might have taken thousands of years. It does so
by the underlying recognition of perfect equality of giver and receiver on
which the miracle rests. The miracle shortens time by collapsing it, thus
eliminating certain intervals within it. It does this, however, within the
larger temporal sequence. 
</div> 

Every single time you have the experience of the miracle, of a sudden shift of
perception, that causes you by virtue of an unplanned clarity to be in a place
that you otherwise know it would have taken a great deal of time for you to get
to through reasoning and working on yourself, et cetera, every time you have
that kind of experience, it tells you that you don’t have to depend on time for
anything. In other words, it helps weaken your reliance on time as the solution
to your problems.

And it relieves you of the idea that it must necessarily take you a long time
to accomplish a lot. Because to whatever degree you have a commitment to it
taking a long time because you believe it must take a long time, you are
providing resistance [snap fingers] to an instantaneous healing, to a [snap
fingers] sudden shift of perception, to the miracle. You see?

So every time you have this experience of the miracle, it weakens your reliance
on time, your faith in time, and your bondage to time. And this in itself helps
precipitate the further breakdown of the idea that you exist in time and that
time governs your progress. And this is wonderful.

Alright, let us continue into section III:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
ATONEMENT AND MIRACLES 
</div> 

That’s okay. Someone has asked me to comment on quote “the larger temporal
sequence” unquote. You know what? That simply means that the miracle occurs
within your present frame of reference. In other words, Love meets the human
need. It meets you right where you are, while you still believe you are not
awake, while you still believe you are a body. It meets you right where you are
without frightening you to death by your having an experience of such radical
transformation that it would be nonsensical to you.

And so you seem to have experiences of collapsed time within a still ongoing
experience of time, but as I said that in itself begins to weaken your faith in
time, your commitment to it, and your bondage to it. And in that weakening of
the apparent validity of time, you will arrive at a point where time will cease
and everything will still make sense to you. So it does it within the larger
temporal sequence, because that’s the only way your return to Sanity can happen
without increasing your insanity because great fear has been brought into play.
And so it is a kindness. Okay.

Continue.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I am in charge of the process of Atonement, which I undertook to begin. When
you offer a miracle to any of my brothers, you do it to yourself and me. The
reason you come before me is that I do not need miracles for my own Atonement,
but I stand at the end in case you fail temporarily. My part in the Atonement
is the cancelling out of all errors that you could not otherwise correct. 
</div> 

And it’s simply that as an older Brother, you might say, someone who has been
down the road already, I can see the pitfalls that you cannot see, and because
I care and because I am devoted to you, I will point out the pitfalls that you
can’t see before you fall into them, so that now you will be able to recognize
them and point them out to another Brother whom you have become devoted to and
are willing to mentor.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Just for a point of clarity, when we speak of errors here, we’re not talking
like I put in the drainage system wrong [audience laughter] or I made a bad
investment in the stock market. We’re talking about the error of&hellip; 
</div> 

Errors of perception.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Of, well, the error of not being miracle-ready. Is that…
</div> 

That is one of them. Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Is that what that&hellip; So in other words, if temporarily I’m not
miracle-ready, then you step in. That’s the kind of errors that we’re talking
about, correct? Okay.
</div> 

That is correct.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I’m just for some reason this evening I’m able to perceive my ego’s
interpretation of what you’re saying and yet see the other meaning as well, so
that why I’m commenting. Also for reaffirmation as well.
</div> 

Indeed. Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Well, you say you can help us because you walked the road before, but that was
two thousand years ago and the world’s a lot different since then and the
problems are&hellip; 
</div> 

Oh, it isn’t the world. It isn’t the world. It’s the mind and the mind is the
same. The ego frame of reference is the same today as it was yesterday as it
was two thousand years ago, and the way out of the ego frame of reference will
always be the same. Today the ego has high-tech means of screwing you out of
your Birthright that it didn’t have two thousand years ago, but it’s still the
same mental error. It’s still the same mental aberration.

Let us say that a hundred years ago you wanted to scam your brother who… you
live in Europe and your brother has moved to the States and has become wealthy,
and you want to scam him for some of his money. Well, you must sit down and
write a letter, and you must post it, it must go on a ship to the Americas, and
it must reach its destination perhaps two months later. You must wait for your
brother to respond. It’ll take another two months to come back. Today you can
accomplish the same scam in perhaps an hour over the Internet. But the process
of scamming is identical to what it was. The dynamic of scamming is identical
today to what it was a hundred years ago, or two thousand years ago.

You see, the one thing that can’t change is Mind with a capital “M”. And
therefore, in the human condition, the one thing that can’t change is mind with
a small “m”. And awakening is the undoing of the mind with a small “m”—the ego.
You get the picture. Okay.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you have been restored to the recognition of your original state, you
naturally become part of the Atonement yourself. As you share my unwillingness
to accept error in yourself and others, you must join the great crusade to
correct it; listen to my voice, learn to undo error and act to correct it. The
power to work miracles belongs to you. I will provide the opportunities to do
them, but you must be ready and willing. 
</div> 

And I’m going to interrupt here.

Let us say a situation is occurring which requires correction and there are two
of you present who are asking God, “What is appropriate here?” In other words,
the two are willing to listen to my voice, willing to learn to undo the error,
and willing to act to correct it. And one of them finds that the action to
correct it involves extensive one-on-one communication with a Brother taking
hours of time. And the other having listened and having been willing to learn
what was appropriate and is willing to act, finds that it is not appropriate to
be involved in that way. That can seem to be confusing if one is looking for
consistency; that, in other words, this kind of a situation calls for this kind
of appropriate response. But the one who’s being still may be holding a tone
that makes it easier for the one engaged in the ongoing interaction to be
successful. We’re not talking about coming to an awareness of a correct action
that will always be that action, or will even be that action for another one
involved at the same time in the same circumstance.

The only other thing I want to say at this point is that your devotion to your
Brother or Sister, your willingness to have an object of your affection doesn’t
just involve a willingness to let Love through and to become imbued yourself
with a clearer experience of your Brother’s Divinity. It does involve what
I called mentoring. It does mean involvement.

It does mean being willing to act in terms of witnessing for your Brother, or
witnessing for your Sister. Witnessing on your Brother’s behalf may mean
speaking up and disagreeing vehemently with actions he’s engaged in that are
governed by his own limited perception and misunderstanding of what the Truth
is. It may involve not arguing with him about what he’s doing wrong, but
instead talking about what is true, what is right, what will work, rather than
focusing on what isn’t working. But mentoring means being involved in a way
that has a beneficial outcome. It is not about sitting there and bathing him or
her in your beneficent love without involvement.

I want all of you to let the word “mentor” and “mentoring” stay with you during
this coming week. All of you would love to have a mentor. Why are you here
tonight? Extend that to your Brother. Be willing to look at your Brother this
coming week with a concept of yourself as a potential mentor, rather than
a harried housewife, or a tired mother, or a busy businesswoman who’s got to
stay aware of brass tacks and not mess around with any nonsense. Remember that
every encounter you have can be a mentoring encounter. And then try and embody
that to the best of your ability. And remember that mentoring does not mean
enabling your Brother to not be disturbed because you’re behaving outside of
his concept of what’s right. That’s not mentoring.

Continue.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Doing them will bring conviction in the ability, because conviction comes
through accomplishment. 
</div> 

Them being miracles.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yes.
</div> 

Continue.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Doing them will bring conviction in the ability, because conviction comes
through accomplishment. The ability is the potential, the achievement is its
expression, and the Atonement, which is the natural profession of the children
of God, is the purpose. 
</div> 

I want you to look at the word “profession” as expression. What is Atonement?
It is the expression of forgiveness. And what that means is that Atonement is
the Expression of Love expressing the Truth that is absent all judgment. Do not
look at the word there, do not look at the word “profession” there as an
activity.

“Oh, what profession are you in?”

“Oh, I’m into Atonement.”

You want to know what Atonement is? It’s what’s embodied in the words “praising
God.” And when you look at your Brother or Sister acknowledging the Truth of
them that’s been revealed to you, you’re praising God. And there is no judgment
present. No criticism. No ego ploys. You are glorifying God. That’s what
Atonement is.

That’s what a mentor does as I’m using the word tonight. A mentor glorifies God
where someone else is seeing something less than God where He is. A mentor
inspires new vision, new Self-awareness. A mentor inspires the experience of
innocence where it seemed that innocence had been lost forever.

The ability to work miracles is the potential of one who is willing to approach
his Brother consciously from a mentoring place. The achievement of the miracle
is its expression. And the Atonement is the purpose. Because you know what?
When you succeed in glorifying God where it seemed that God was absent, the one
in that place where it seemed that God was absent cannot help but glorify God
himself and extend the glorification of God further. And another domino falls.

This is where we will end for tonight. This is all good news.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So mentoring is what you’re talking about when you were talking about
witnessing.
</div> 

Yes. Which brings a new element into the picture regarding witnessing, because
one could say that witnessing was simply the recounting of what is true, but
mentoring involves in its definition the element of actual caring. One can
witness to the Truth like an expression of a laundry list, which can be quite
impersonal and uninvolved and not bring into play the conscious act of caring.
And so that is one of the reasons I’m using the word “mentor.”

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And the mentor is an ongoing or long-term relationship.
</div> 

Humanly speaking that is correct. And ultimately speaking it’s a forever way of
being together.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Brilliant use of symbolism.
</div> 

Indeed.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yeah.
</div> 

But I am not bound by it. And three weeks from now I may well use something
else even more triggering. Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So you don’t cling to the old rugged cross. [some audience laughter]
</div> 

You are quite correct. [audience laughter]

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Raj, not too long ago I had an experience too of them just like you talked
about. My day started out I invited the Holy Spirit to be with me during my
day, and I had two experiences just like you’re talking about. And it was
&hellip; it was incredible. And my whole day was like that. But I started by
inviting the Holy Spirit to be with me that day, and it was just like what
you’re talking about. People stopped in their tracks and for a moment were
transformed and I know that. And it was&hellip; I felt great doing it.
</div> 

Indeed.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And they did. So I know what you’re saying. I experienced that.
</div> 

You end up spontaneously engaged in random acts of kindness, unpremeditated
acts of kindness. What a wonderful thing to be engaged in.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
It was. And it was like we experienced something Real. That’s how I can
describe it.
</div> 

Exactly.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
It felt Real. And it was wonderful. And it’s a great&hellip; I wish I could be
that every moment.
</div> 

Well, just gently persist. Gently persist. Okay.

I thank you for being with me.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Thank you.
</div> 

[^1]: ACIM 2nd Edition: T1.II Revelation, Time and Miracles
[^2]: Students commenting or asking a question.

