---
title: Oct 2, 2002
ref: T1.IV The Escape from Darkness
---

Good evening.

We will step right in and we’ll let Judy read first. And if everyone will
remember to hold the microphone up near the top. Thank you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Escape from Darkness[^1]

The escape from darkness involves two stages: First, the recognition that
darkness cannot hide. 
</div> 

Let’s stop right there. Suddenly we’re talking about darkness and escaping
without any preamble, but it is intelligent because darkness is the place from
which you begin your journey Home.

But what is darkness? Darkness is the place where you hide&hellip; darkness is
the place where you hide your most fearful secret from yourself and everyone
else. And what you’ve hidden there is what you discover when you arrive at the
bottom of the barrel in your life experience. It’s called darkness because it
is the place you have chosen to ignore. It is the place where you have
refused to bring your attention and, you could say, therefore, the *Light* of
you.

And what is this most fearful secret that you hide from yourself and everyone
else? It is that you’re not in charge of anything. It is that you don’t have
the answer. It is, most succinctly put, the awareness that you are truly
incompetent. Now it happens that this is the utter Truth. You, on your own,
separated from your Source, are absolutely incompetent.

Now the barrel that you finally end up finding yourself at the bottom of, is
filled with all of the techniques you have developed to cover up the fact that
you are incompetent. You have filled it up with wild imaginations as to your
ability and your skill and your capacity to think intelligently and reasonably,
and therefore demonstrate that you do have control, that you are competent. The
reason you all ultimately end up at the end of the&hellip; at the bottom of the
barrel is because you can’t really pull off the lie. You can’t really prove
your competence.

And as time goes by, as your life passes by, you could say, you lose the rev
for proving your capacity. You lose the vigor that you had so easily brought to
proving your competency and making your mark in the world. And you have had
successive experiences that have demonstrated to you that no matter how hard
you’ve tried, you haven’t succeeded at really demonstrating your competency.
Mind you, all of what you filled the barrel with to cover up your
incompetency involved mutually-agreed-upon definitions with others, who were
also engaged in filling their barrel with their competencies and their
skills. And the reason there was so much sparring that went on, so much
warring that went on, was because part of what was involved in demonstrating
your competency was in proving your superiority to others who were trying to
demonstrate their competency. You see?

Well, sooner or later, and it’s better if it’s sooner, you come to the point
where the war gets tiring, the lack of fulfillment of expectations dampens your
spirit, your will to be independent. And a little bit of honesty begins to
percolate into your awareness. You decide that struggle isn’t worth it. And as
you let go of the struggle and sink toward the bottom of the barrel deeper into
the darkness, you finally come to the point where you recognize that you’re
powerless, that you are incompetent, that you can’t control anything.

And since you have come to the bottom of the barrel through all of the ego
structures you have created, the ego looks at your realization and says,
“You’re a failure.” It says, “There’s no reason to live.” And if you stay in
the ego perspective for very long as you are observing the Truth about you, the
ego will distract you from succumbing to the Truth about yourself and accepting
it. And it will say, “There’s one last thing you can do to demonstrate that you
have control, even though you’re a total failure. And that is you can do
yourself in by your own hand. You can kill yourself, instead of dying naturally
into the blessing&hellip;” It [the ego] doesn’t say this, but the blessing that
awaits you in your acceptance of the Truth of this deep dark secret that you on
your own are totally incompetent.

This last act that the ego suggests is a last attempt at control—which you have
to be willing to dishonor, because when you arrive at the point of feeling the
fact that you are not competent on your own, and you accept it and don’t fight
against it by engaging in a final act of suicide, you discover an incredible
thing. Peace. Why? Because now you don’t have to go to all the effort you had
been going to present this false front of competency. There is great peace in
being able to say, “I can’t do this. I can’t do that. I can’t live up to your
expectations. I can’t live up to the expectations I have placed upon myself
that I accepted from my parents. I can’t be something I’m not. I don’t even
want to be something I’m not any longer.” This constitutes a great release.

And in that release comes a joy welling up together with an awareness about
yourself that in your incompetency as a separated independent individuality,
you’re quite Holy, you’re quite Whole. This is the Truth that was hidden in the
darkness, hidden out of sight in that place you chose to ignore. And this is
the beginning of Awakening. This is the beginning of the return to your Sanity,
your Whole-Mindedness, you might say; not fractured by insane attempts to prove
that you are independent and competent in your independence.

Let’s continue&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
May I ask [a question]? I missed the part about how your ego justifies suicide
as avoiding recognizing your incompetency. In other words, having come up
against suicide, it’s&hellip; the feeling for me was, “All was lost. I was
a total failure.”[^2]
</div> 

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Just like when you’re at the bottom of the barrel.
</div> 

You *were* at the bottom of the barrel.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Right. Right. And I was saved from that.
</div> 

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
That act. The interesting thing that I recognize is that suicide is
&hellip; I don’t know what the statistics are, but it’s a very low percentage of
the people in the world commit suicide.
</div> 

Indeed.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And so that’s almost like saying that people don’t feel like failures, or
they’re too afraid to take their own lives. Do you see what I mean? If that’s
&hellip; when you say the ego—and the ego is not original—it tries this with
everyone. Okay, because I don’t know&hellip; I mean I’m guessing that most people
have entertained the question of suicide at one time or another.
</div> 

Yes. Mind you, I said, “If you stay too long in the ego’s frame of reference
observing this Truth, the ego will&hellip;”

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So, you’re saying that if you recognize your incompetency from the ego frame of
reference for too long of a period, this suicide thing is the way&hellip; what
the ego suggests to you to cut it short.
</div> 

Exactly.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
To stop it.
</div> 

Exactly.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So that it can preserve itself.
</div> 

Exactly.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Be in control.

So the ego actually knows that there’s life beyond death, that it is not
extinguishing itself. Or is it kind of like a Kamikaze thing?
</div> 

No, no, no. It’s that the ego recognizes that you’re getting close to honesty.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I see. And it would rather extinguish itself than have you&hellip;

[maintain?] control.
</div> 

No, no. It is an act that keeps it alive.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I see. So the ego knows that death is not&hellip; there’s nothing final about
death. It even recognizes that. Or else it would be asking for its own
extinction.
</div> 

No. It has nothing to do with the ego recognizing anything about life or death.
It has to do with the fact that the ego’s existence depends upon the secret
remaining a secret.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So we’d rather sacrifice everything rather than give that secret up?
</div> 

It elicits a consummate act of independence as a means of securing its
existence. It is its nonexistence that it will not tolerate.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I see.
</div> 

But it has no sense of life or death, of the here or the hereafter.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So again it’s just another&hellip; it’s just another insane thing.
</div> 

Exactly.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
It’s just another insane&hellip; I mean, “I’ll extinguish myself rather than give
up control and face the Truth.”
</div> 

No. It isn’t even a matter of the focus being on extinguishing oneself. It is
a focus on an overt act as though action based on ignorance constitutes life.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I see. I see. I see. It never gets to thinking, “What about what happens
after?” It just&hellip; it is gonna&hellip;
</div> 

The ego has no capacity *to think*, per se.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I see.
</div> 

It doesn’t reason. It is a&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Program.
</div> 

It is a defense mechanism.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I see.
</div> 

And it defends itself. That’s *all* it ever does.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I see. Okay. Thank you.
</div> 

You are welcome. Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I guess I was thinking that we all commit suicide. I mean, we all, that’s what
we’ve been doing—we haven’t been dying normally.
</div> 

In a&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
In a sense.
</div> 

In a broader sense, that is correct.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So I could see that as giving up. You know, being disgusted and just giving up
and not thinking in terms of trying to keep taking care of yourself and going
on with life.

But, anyway, never mind.
</div> 

Every death is a suicide. It is a decision not to face life.

But what we’re talking about here is what darkness is. And that it is the place
where you have hidden the Truth About You that will undo all of your
mutually-agreed-upon definitions and the bondages associated with them, and
which will serve as the stepping stone to the return of your Sanity.

Simply dying from an illness, or old age, or whatever description you want to
give it, is not the same thing as coming to this place where you’ve hidden the
Truth About Yourself from yourself.

Continue&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Where did I leave off? I’m incompetent.
</div> 

This step&hellip; 
 
<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Oh, I see. Okay.
</div> 

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This step usually entails fear. Second, the recognition that there is nothing
you want to hide even if you could. This step brings escape from fear. 
</div> 

Yes. You see, when you arrive at that point of recognizing that you’re
incompetent, and you’re looking at it from the ego’s vantage point, it is
experienced with fear. But then, as it begins to dawn on you that you really
can’t solve the problem yourself—whatever it is, or you really can’t pay the
bill because you really don’t have the money—a realization occurs that you
can’t get blood from a turnip, or you can’t get water from a rock. And
therefore, if you don’t have the answer, it isn’t necessary for you to have the
answer. And you have been suffering from a self-imposed requirement that you
always have the answer to everything—which you don’t ever have. You see?

So when you realize that the realization that you’re incompetent, that you
don’t have the answer, is itself the answer, and that it means that you’re not
supposed to have the answer, then you can see that there can be no penalty for
not having an answer that you were incapable of having. And you realize, “My
God, all this time I’ve been trying to do something that’s impossible.” In that
realization, you can abandon trying to do the impossible, because it’s clear to
you that it is impossible.

So it says, second, there is&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the recognition that there is nothing you want to hide even if you could. 
</div> 

You no longer want to hide your incompetence, because it’s a jewel of
a blessing to you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This step brings escape from fear. 
</div> 

Again, because it’s utterly clear to you that there can be no penalty for your
not being able to do something that you were never created to be able to do.

Continue&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you have become willing to hide nothing, you will not only be willing to
enter into communion but will also understand peace and joy. 
</div> 

Yes. You cannot stay long in the realization of your incompetence without
discovering that in your peace and your joy and your newfound awareness of your
Holiness, you still exist. In other words, the world and you did not come to an
end.

What you have experienced as need, which you now realize you are incompetent to
meet and that you were never meant to meet on your own, you find yourself
wondering, “How is this need going to be met?”—not, “How am I going to figure
out how this need is going to be met?”—but, “How is this need going to be met?”
It’s just a simple response and it constitutes prayer, because you’re asking
the question but you’re not asking it of yourself. And when that happens, the
Holy Spirit responds, your Guide responds. Communion occurs. Realization
happens. Isolation has been broken.

This is one of the reasons that I’m constantly pointing you in the direction of
paying attention to your needs—not so that you can figure out how to solve
them—but because needs are the threshold of clarification. Needs are the
threshold of further enlightenment when you recognize their existence and honor
them by not ignoring them and ask for help without quote “leaning unto your own
understanding” unquote.

Okay.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
The less drastic path to Awakening that involves more willingness and less
plummeting to the bottom of the barrel, I’m seeing this is the same process of
realizing my incompetence, and in that I’m seeing that that’s where I can see
my Innocence. Because I really can’t do anything so I am innocent; I’m not
responsible. And that connects me to the curiosity, when seeing this exact same
activity going on, only not bringing me to the brink of suicide, and not
looking really horrible. Happening in an everyday activity and not being
unbearable.
</div> 

Yes, it is certainly possible to do this more gracefully by consciously
choosing for it, instead of letting circumstances force you into the corner
where it’s so dark and the Truth About You awaits you. You can invite the
Consciousness of the Truth About You. Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
The key is to have help from the Awakened Ones.
</div> 

Indeed. But Life Itself is Divine. And the Divinity of It is what constantly
insinuates itself into your conscious awareness and causes all of your attempts
to be competent to fail, and ultimately bring great discouragement to you. It
is the Divinity of Being that brings discouragement to the false sense of self
that’s trying to proclaim its competence. So what drives you to the bottom of
the barrel is Reality exerting Itself, you might say, being What’s Real. It is
your Divinity disallowing you to be comfortably insane. So no matter how you
arrive at the jewel that was hidden in the darkness, no matter how you arrive
at it, whether it seems to be circumstances or a spiritual desire to wake up,
it’s still the Divinity of Being which brings you to that point.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
The Way Things Work.
</div> 

Exactly. Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Just simply not resisting that is why it’s not excruciating.
</div> 

That is exactly correct. Yes. Okay.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Holiness can never be really hidden in darkness, but you can deceive yourself
about it. This deception makes you fearful because you realize in your heart it
is a deception, and you exert enormous efforts to establish its reality. 
</div> 

Indeed. You understand the meaning of that.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yes.
</div> 

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The miracle sets reality where it belongs. Reality belongs only to spirit, and
the miracle acknowledges only truth. 
</div> 

Ah. And the miracle acknowledges only Truth right where the ego was saying
failure lay; right where the ego said catastrophe awaited you.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
The darkness.
</div> 

Yes. Go on.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It thus dispels illusions about yourself, and puts you in communion with
yourself and God. 
</div> 

Exactly.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The miracle joins in the Atonement by placing the mind in the service of the
Holy Spirit. 
</div> 

Instead of in the service of the ego. Instead of in the service of that which
would cause you to once again try to climb to the top of the barrel.

Continue&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This establishes the proper function of the mind and corrects its errors, which
are merely lacks of love. 
</div> 

Indeed. Do you see that all of your attempts to be competent, all of your
attempts to prove your competency, all of your attempts to be in control, all
of them are expressions of lack of love. Because all of them are in the service
of your denying your Conscious Awareness of Yourself—Who You Really Are. It is
an act of aggression against Yourself. Ultimately it’s an act of aggression
against God, because what’s being covered up in the darkness is the Presence of
God being All There Is of you. Now it doesn’t mean that God is being abused,
because all of this is going on in the imagination. It’s not really happening.
And no matter how long you have spent attempting to get to the top of the
barrel and stay there, you never for a moment had any competency or any
existence as a separated entity capable of rising to the top of the barrel and
staying there.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So that’s why, in the world, no one ever really stays at the top of the barrel,
whether it be a movie star, or an athletic hero, or a CEO [Chief Executive
Officer of a company], or on and on and on.
</div> 

That is correct.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And then once like, for instance, with boxers or football players, there’s
always comebacks—trying to come back, make a comeback to the top of the barrel.
</div> 

Indeed. And then there are those who were successful, apparently, who got
bored with their success and moved to another venue, another arena of&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Proving their competency.
</div> 

Exactly. Of excelling, *because* it never truly satisfies.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
[in the background] Because it’s lonely at the top. Yeah. [barely audible]
</div> 

It is. Someone said the phrase is, “It’s lonely at the top.” It’s actually
lonely from the moment you have established a mutually-agreed-upon definition
with someone else to be independent. So it’s, you might say, lonely from the
bottom up. As long as there is an attempt to move vertically, it is lonely, no
matter where you are between the bottom and the top of the barrel. It’s lonely
by definition because you have said, in so many words, “I’d rather see it my
way. I choose to fool myself into believing that I can be independent and have
an independent viewpoint.” That’s the definition of being alone. Therefore,
everything that follows will be imbued with loneliness.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Some people that make it to the top find their bottom of the barrel there and
turn within and move in an intelligent direction from there.
</div> 

Indeed.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
What I wanted to ask you was&hellip;
</div> 

Mainly because when they arrive at the top and they recognize that it is the
top, they see that it truly is the topmost point that they have been fighting
for and working for, and they find that they are still unfulfilled. It’s a very
depressing realization because it means that all of the sacrifice and all of
the work that they did was for nothing, and therefore they’ve spent their
whole life on the wrong track. And there they are, at the top, which is the
bottom of the barrel. They had no competency to create what they had been
fooled into believing could be created and did await them.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I wanted to ask you about&hellip;
</div>

In other words, as a total success, they were complete failures.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
The imagination that we’re living in, and there’s been these hints dropped—a
lot of conversation about time being an illusion, and you said there wasn’t any
evolution, and I remember you saying, “the cavemen, if there was such
a thing”—am I living in this imaginary world pretending that there was this
vast history of evolution, etc. I mean ancient&hellip; a lot of times in the
Course it talks about ancient in a seeming almost sarcastic way. I mean is this
all just an illusion? History.
</div> 

You are living in the middle of the Kingdom of Heaven. You are living in the
middle of Eternity. There’s no time occurring right now, right here. But
through the use of your imagination, you are seeing and experiencing time and
the conceptualization of infinity as being on a timeline that is infinite, with
an infinite future and an infinite past. And so you are experiencing
a misperception of Eternity, right here, right now, in the middle of Eternity.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So the T. Rex [Tyrannosaurus Rex] bones they dug up are our image that we’re
holding in our mind of this enlightened being that’s passed on. I mean I don’t…
I can’t really conceptualize not having history from where I am now. But I’m
beginning to see that it’s not going to work, as I’m moving forward, to keep
thinking of things in the past, of this vast past that’s brought us to this
point. That’s&hellip;
</div> 

Well, it is impossible for you to conceive of the Meaning of the word
“Eternity.” The closest you could come to it would be Wholeness—infinitely
all-inclusive Wholeness in the now. The reason you must let go of the past, and
the reason you must stop anticipating the future, is because until you let go
of that conceptualized timeline, you will be unable to experience the eternal
presences of T. Rexes, and anything else that it seems existed in the past but
no longer exist. I’ve said before that by releasing the future and the past
from your consideration, and letting your awareness be brought to the moment
you’re in, and then letting that moment be snuffed out, that’s where the
transition into the Conscious Experience of Eternity occurs.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Eternity is kind of being found in the stillness, in the void.
</div> 

Yes, but also I want you to grasp that Reality is not off at a distance. Right
now, right here in this room, you’re experiencing Eternity. Right now, right
here in this room, you are experiencing the Kingdom of Heaven. But you are
experiencing it through a sieve. You are experiencing it through a filter—a
highly complex filter of definitions which you have applied to the Kingdom of
Heaven and Eternity, including this concept of life being a timeline moving
from the past to the future.

What I want you to understand is that Reality, Eternity, the Divinity of
everything, the Divinity of you, all of this is just a shift of perception away
right here. And it will be a shift of perception about everything that is right
here—[tap on the glass of the table] the glass top table, the chair, your
hands, the microphone, the red color of the word on your shirt, the color
itself. This is why I say be curious about every single thing you’re
experiencing, because in a moment of defenselessness, in a moment of looking
with innocent eyes innocent of preconceptions, it can all change. Not that it
will change, but what you’re allowing it to be in your experience will change
and more truly represent Reality.

But let the curiosity be present here and now, because it’s not off in the
future that you’re going wake up. It’s going to be in the moment that you look
defenselessly at the orchid, or the glass of water—like, “What in the world
does that mean? What in the world is that?” You see? And then shutting up and
allowing the answer to be revealed. More than that. Letting the answer be
revealed by the very thing you’ve asked the question about. You don’t have to
ask your Guide, “What’s the Meaning of that orchid?” Ask the orchid. Be open to
it because it has the full means of conveying to you what its Meaning is. That
is its gift—to convey its Meaning.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Thank you.
</div> 

Let’s continue&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This establishes the proper function of the mind and corrects its errors, which
are merely lacks of love. 
</div> 

We will back up one sentence.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The miracle joins in the Atonement by placing the mind in the service of the
Holy Spirit. This establishes the proper function of the mind and corrects its
errors, which are merely lacks of love. Your mind can&hellip;  
</div> 

&hellip; oh, that’s another important point.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This establishes the proper function of the mind and corrects its errors, &hellip;
</div> 

It doesn’t say *you* have to correct its errors. The errors are corrected
spontaneously as Truth dawns in your awareness. As you see the Truth, what
isn’t true becomes obvious. And once what isn’t true is obvious to you, you
naturally no longer invest any trust or commitment to them. And correction is
complete just because you were paying attention; not because you managed to
find some way on your own to correct the error. You see? Do you see what I’m
trying to say? I’m trying to say that everything that exists that is Real is
insisting upon your return to Sanity. Your return to Sanity, Whole-Mindedness,
is inevitable. And everything that is going on is geared toward supporting your
letting yourself into that deep, dark corner where the Truth About You is
hidden.

You say, “My mind is all screwed up. I’ve got to straighten out my mind so that
I can move forward on my spiritual path.” Or “I’ve got to straighten out my
mind so I can have a healing.” [single audience laugh] See, that’s part of the
exercise of control. And the spiritual exercise of control for spiritual
benefit is one of the most noble means of getting to the top of the barrel.
[mild audience laughter]

If your mind is all screwed up, all you have to do is stop trying to unscrew it
and say “Help” to God. You don’t have to be able to get into the right frame of
mind to have a healing of your mind. You’ve got to ask for help. You see?

So you don’t have to be at a certain level of perfection before the benefits of
What You Perfectly And Divinely Are can register with you. That’s why in your
worst moments miracles can happen, because it’s not up to you to manage your
mind in such a way as to create a healing. The only management of your mind
that you have to employ is to say “Help,” instead of trying to do it yourself.
That’s the only discipline that you can actually bring to bear on the problem
of being, in order to get out of the problem.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I can’t stop it.
</div> 

Pardon?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I can’t stop it. My mind. I can’t stop it.
</div> 

That is correct.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And that’s why this next sentence is so fascinating.
</div> 

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your mind can be possessed by illusions,&hellip;
</div> 

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Sometimes I really feel like, I mean, run by my life. In other words, it runs
me. Because there’s the next thing to do, and the next thing, and I’m always in
a hurry to do this thing, and that thing, and that thing, and the mind’s
spinning about thinking and planning. And I can’t stop it. I mean I use the
best techniques and studied with the, you know, studied the masters and all
these techniques of meditation. I can’t stop it. Can’t do it.
</div> 

There’s your realization.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Hallelujah. [some laughing in the audience]
</div> 

Now succumb to it. Yield to it. Don’t resist it any longer. Accept it.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
How about tomorrow? I’ll do that tomorrow. [more laughing in the audience]
</div> 

Exactly.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your mind can be possessed by illusions, but spirit is eternally free. If
a mind perceives without love, it perceives an empty shell and is unaware of
the spirit within. 
</div> 
 
In other words, if a mind perceives without Love, it perceives&hellip; it
perceives a soap bubble. It perceives a boundary. It perceives only limits and
is unaware of the Spirit within. I have said before that the ego is like the
sphere of a soap bubble—fragile, thin, insubstantial, but very visible, very
definite. Your present sense of yourself is this space inside the bubble. And
you in your Totality are the space inside the bubble *and all* of the space
outside the bubble.

But if a mind perceives without love, it perceives an empty shell. It doesn’t
perceive that it’s a full shell, because it’s preoccupied with the finiteness
of the boundary, and either protecting itself against it, or enlarging the
boundary.

Continue&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
But the Atonement restores spirit to its proper place. The mind that serves
spirit is invulnerable. 
</div> 

Because it is boundary-less. It has no outside and it has no inside. There is
no means of conflict.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
There’s no walls to defend.
</div> 

Exactly. Without the bubble.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
There’s nothing to defend against.
</div> 

And again, if the bubble represents the ego, the bubble itself is a defense
mechanism. It is the only element, and I use that term very loosely, it is the
only element in existence that implies, or suggests, the need for defense, the
existence of defense. When the bubble pops, there is nowhere to be found,
anything which gives meaning to the word “defense.”

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And the bubble can’t be put back together again, as far as us.
</div> 

That is correct. The bubble isn’t even really there.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Just for purposes of illustration.
</div> 

Just for purposes of illustration. [pause] What do you mean?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I mean that’s the reason that you use that example.
</div> 

Yes, I use that example for that purpose.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
When I read this after talking about the past, and it said, “without love, you
see an empty shell instead of the Spirit,” and then I got it how my definitions
make me look at the dinosaur bones instead of experiencing the Living Christ
that is really what’s there; the empty shell of a dead body instead of the
Living Christ that’s really there.
</div> 

Indeed.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And then I also could see how I have this network of definitions that wraps
that empty shell around every Living Christ, all of the Living Love that’s all
around me, but that’s not what I’m seeing. I’m seeing it all as an empty shell.
</div> 

Exactly. Yes. Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
For purposes of illustration.
</div> 

Continue&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Darkness is lack of light as sin is lack of love. It has no unique properties
of its own. 
</div> 

Isn’t that interesting? The subject is darkness—but you can see that darkness
is lack of light, or the absence of light—but isn’t it interesting that sin is
lack of love? Sin therefore is not a presence, is it? It’s just an absence of
something. And if sin is not a presence, then you cannot be guilty of sin.

You may suffer from withholding Love, because extending Love is your Function.
You may suffer from that, because it is impossible for you to be in a state of
Self-denial and be comfortable. But you cannot suffer for sins, because there
is no presence of something that can be identified as sin, anymore than there
is a presence of something called darkness.

So, this is a very valuable thing to contemplate. All sin is a lack of love. If
you are suffering, it is not because you are being penalized for your sins. It
is because you are neglecting to fulfill your Function, which is to be Love.
You are withholding the only True Self-Expression you can engage in, and that
cannot be comfortable. But because that is what you’re suffering from, you can
correct it.

If your suffering were the result of your sins, you would have no means of
getting out from underneath that suffering. But it’s the fact that sin is
nothing more and nothing less than lack of love, it is because sin is nothing
more and nothing less than the lack of love that you cannot possibly be bound
to suffering. And a new decision on your part to let Love flow through you,
will release you from the suffering.

Continue&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
May I? And this not fulfilling your Function, or withholding Love, is the root
cause of all suffering. All suffering.
</div> 

Absolutely.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay. There’s not any suffering, whether it be from disease, or guilt, or
&hellip; that does not come from this not fulfilling of one’s Function.
</div> 

That is correct.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So the human condition is that.
</div> 

Is the experience of withholding the Love That You Are.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So business is a suffering place. [laughing] Your place of business is your
place of suffering. [laughing]

But we have a choice.

That’s true, yes. But I mean in the purely economic sense of supply-and-demand,
competition, win and lose. In that sense. Yes, we have a choice of making the
place of business a place to extend Love.

Or a choice for Love.

Right. Exactly
</div> 

So&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Darkness is lack of light as sin is lack of love. 
</div> 

Continue&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It has no unique properties of its own. It is an example of the “scarcity”
belief, from which only error can proceed. Truth is always abundant. Those who
perceive and acknowledge that they have everything have no needs of any kind.
The purpose of the Atonement is to restore everything to you; or rather, to
restore it to your awareness. 
</div> 

Ah. Because it never went anywhere and you never stopped being Whole-Minded. So
all that happens is that it is restored to your awareness because you’re no
longer consciously and conscientiously ignoring it, keeping it hidden.

Continue&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You were given everything when you were created, just as everyone was. 
</div> 

Now, why do you suppose it was put that way? Why not just say, “You were given
everything when you were created.” Why add, “just as everyone was”?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
The story of the whole book—joining with our Brothers.

I have it and you don’t. Ha ha.
</div> 

Just a moment. Because having it is nothing special—you weren’t left out, and
no one else was left out.

The whole reason for mutually-agreed-upon definitions is for the purpose of
demonstrating competency as we have been talking about, so that you might rise
to the top of the barrel, which obviously not everyone can be at, and so that
you might feel a purpose to life and the fulfillment of it. The result is
a loss of compassion for, and involvement with, your Brothers, your fellowman.
Equality, involvement, witnessing for your Brother—these things are disallowed
when you are claiming independent ability to be competent.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You were given everything when you were created, just as everyone was. 
</div> 

You could say that levels the playing field. And if you all have everything,
then no one has to struggle at the expense of another to get, or to experience
having.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You were given everything when you were created, just as everyone was. 
</div> 

That statement triggers a Unity, a unifying energy in your mind which is
essential to abandoning the barrel existence. No one stands above or out from
anyone else. And because you all have everything, you all share everything
equally. And in that sharing, you bless each other equally, infinitely.

Continue&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The emptiness engendered by fear must be replaced by forgiveness. That is what
the Bible means by “There is no death,” and why I could demonstrate that death
does not exist. 
</div> 

Now what emptiness is this referring to?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I don’t understand.
</div> 

It’s the emptiness which the ego suggests is in the deep, dark corner at the
bottom of the barrel. 

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Incompetence.
</div> 

Incompetence is one being empty of competence.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yeah.
</div> 

Empty of success.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The emptiness engendered by fear must be replaced by forgiveness. 
</div> 

Now what does that mean? It means the withdrawal of the ego’s definition of
what’s in that dark corner. And in the forgiveness of your preconception about
it, your abandonment of your preconception about it, you can begin to recognize
that the fact that you don’t have the answer and that you don’t have control,
is truly the answer that you need to yield into so that the acknowledgement of
it might bless you with relief and peace and joy and spontaneous clarity that
allows for the correction of the need that brought you to your point of
desperation.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
That is what the Bible means by “There is no death,”… 
</div> 

Well, this, you could say, is my way in the Course of pointing out that the
ego, left to its devices, would call for suicide. If forgiveness doesn’t occur,
and you don’t embrace the horrible answer that you are incompetent, and the
blessing of the realization that because you’re incompetent you must never have
been meant to be competent, and therefore it is useless to try any longer to do
the impossible. You see? And in that recognition and embrace that it’s useless
to do what’s impossible, you are ripe for communion to occur, for connection to
occur to replace the isolation that you had fought so dearly for, so that you
could get to the top of the barrel on your own and make your mark and prove
that you really are something.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And the way that we do that is by asking for help.
</div> 

Indeed.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Why is it that we are in need?
</div> 

[small laugh] Why are you in need?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
[inaudible]
</div> 

When you are looking at *God* and saying, “That isn’t God,” you are denying your
Source. And when you deny your Source, it is like strangling yourself. You need
your Source. You need the Conscious Experience of your Connection, because
there is no way to exist without it.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So it’s not because we separated from God.
</div> 

Absolutely not.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Even when we are fully Awake with God, we’re still going to be in need. Okay.
</div> 

Absolutely correct.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So when&hellip;
</div> 

Except that when you yield to the fact that Being Itself is a state of need,
and you yield to the Father, and you experience your Oneness with the Father,
and you don’t cease to be needy because you can’t ever become not needy, your
defenselessness in the Presence of God allows you to be filled by the Presence
of God. Now actually it allows the Conscious Awareness that you have always
been filled by the Presence of God to register with you. And now—in your
Experience of Wholeness—enlightenment, fulfillment, need, and fulfillment of
the need are inseparable and simultaneous. And because you’re experiencing
utter Fulfillment, and no sense of lack, there is no experience of need to
succumb to, or think that you have to overcome.

But it is important for you to understand, as you are letting go of the ego
frame of reference and the ego definitions, that you will never arrive at
a point of not being in need. And you must yield to that Truth, knowing that
it’s the Truth, so that you don’t bring any vestige of ego, or attempt to bring
any vestige of ego, along with you saved in your hip pocket so that when you
arrive at the point where there’s no need, you can *really* assert control. You
see? I see that you see.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Thank you.
</div> 

Continue&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I came to fulfill the law by reinterpreting it. The law itself, if properly
understood, offers only protection. 
</div> 

And another way of referring to the law is quote “The Way Things Work” unquote.
The Way Things Work meaning as God has set, and is setting, everything into
motion at every moment.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is those who have not yet changed their minds who brought the “hell-fire”
concept into it. I assure you that I will witness for anyone who lets me, and
to whatever extent he permits it. 
</div> 

Ah.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
That’s good news.
</div> 

I will witness for every one who lets me, *and* to whatever extent he permits it.
You must give permission. You can’t be dragged into the Kingdom of Heaven. You
must *invite* clarification. You must *invite* the companionship, and you must let
it in.

Continue&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your witnessing demonstrates your belief, and thus strengthens it. Those who
witness for me are expressing, through their miracles, that they have abandoned
the belief in deprivation in favor of the abundance they have learned belongs
to them. 
</div> 

Yes. Nothing more needs to be said about that.

Don’t be afraid of the darkness—the darkness within you. It seems a scary
place. The ego needs for you to be frightened of the place where you’ve hidden
the Truth About Yourself. But don’t be frightened of it. And don’t be afraid to
go there. And don’t be afraid to let yourself be present in it, because the
darkness is not a presence. It’s just a place where you are consciously
refusing to let the Light of your Awareness shine on the Essential Truth that
is your salvation. And the Essential Truth that is your salvation that the ego
insists upon covering up is that you have no personal, private, independent
competence of any kind.

And with that utter clarity, we will end for tonight.

[^1]: ACIM 2nd Edition: T1.IV The Escape from Darkness
[^2]: Students commenting or asking a question.

