---
title: Oct 10, 2002
ref: T1.V Wholeness and Spirit
---

Good evening.

Before we begin tonight, we spoke about some rather significant things
last week, and I’m wondering whether anyone went home and thought about
it and had some “yes, buts,” or some further questions. And so I want
you to have time to address those, if there are any.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So I asked the flower what it is and it says it’s thirsty. It says my
leaves are dusty. And I get it a drink of water and I don’t spill any.
And I dust its leaves and I don’t break any. Something is going on there
and it’s not competence. When you said that we were incompetent, it rang
so true, but I walk, I drive. There’s this apparent activity of
successful living. Can you tell me what that experience is? [^1]
</div>

Let me ask you, first of all, whether as you’re having this experience,
you are conscious of being joined?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
That’s what came to me, was that this was activity that I wasn’t doing
alone. So a lot of what we’re all experiencing is somewhat undistorted
experience of the Kingdom of Heaven?
</div>

Oh, that is correct. You are not experiencing total distortion.

What I want everyone to be clear on is that this subject of incompetence
is not something for the ego to take and say, “Oh, yeah. Yeah. I’m
incompetent. I accept that. And I realize that everything I’m doing
doesn’t express any competence I have. Yep. Got that under my belt.”

You see what I’m saying? When one arrives at the clarity that he or she
is incompetent, he or she inevitably reaches out so as not to be alone,
and joining occurs. And then you find, as long as you are joined, that
your activities do reflect intelligence and competence apparently. But
it’s very clear to you in the joined state where you are asking what is
appropriate, and where you are experiencing what is appropriate, and
embodying it in your actions, that none of what is happening is
happening by any authority of yours. The only authority you have
expressed is &hellip; lies in the statement, “Thy Will be done.”

So, we are talking about not only recognizing your incompetence, but
what naturally follows if you believe what that really means, because
you can’t stay in the state of incompetence long without asking for
help. It’s impossible. So all I’m saying is that if you’re driving
along, or you’re conducting activities, you might say, daily activities,
and there’s no clear sense of being joined and of being guided, then
what we talked about last week hasn’t registered with you yet in its
full meaning.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
For a long time I’ve kept Reality at bay and maybe what you called a
void or the silence. And then, you know, there would be outburst as the
pressure had built up. But I started communicating more consistently
with you, and with my Guide, and you know, the circle expanded a little
bit. And then what you said about Reality being Divine, and to ask the
flower its Meaning, and that all of life is Divine and is conspiring to
keep us from being comfortably in our ignorance. I opened up and what I
found was that quickly the void filled up. And there was companionship
from, not just from you, and not just from my Guide, but from everything
around me, and the silence started to be filled up with harmony. And
that was a &hellip; it was good to realize I’m in a friendly universe.
</div> 

Yes, indeed.

Just as a fine tuning of this point regarding the flower, when you are
in communion with the flower, you certainly will know what its needs
are. In other words, whether it is thirsty, whether it needs fertilizer,
and so on. But that does not express its Meaning. Its Meaning is
Eternal. And when you are Awake, you will recognize and not be deluded
by &hellip; you will recognize that it doesn’t need water and it doesn’t
need fertilizer because it is an Eternal Idea in the Mind of God.

And so, as a fine tuning, as I say, when you’re communing, you will be
able to hear what the apparent needs are, but I want you to go further
than that in asking the flower its Meaning, so that you are asking to
experience its Divine Meaning, its capital “M” Meaning—the Intent set
into motion by the Father that appears as the flower that will forever
be its Meaning. You see what I’m saying?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yes.
</div> 

And it’s the same &hellip; it’s the same with your fellowman, because when
you are listening for the Truth about him or her, you are listening for
the Ultimate Reality, the Divine Meaning that is changeless, but at the
same time you will be able to recognize the human need and meet it, even
though that is not part of the Eternal Meaning.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
That’s what the Course means when it says we have to correct things the
way we see them now in order to not see them that way at all. We correct
on the level that we think we’re experiencing at in order to not see
levels at all.
</div> 

Oh, certainly the correction will be at the level where the mistake is
occurring. But you’re not going to correct them. You’re going to let
them be corrected. And the correction will come in the realization that
follows your asking, “What is the Truth here?”

Okay. Any other [questions]?

Sure.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
There’s someone who is, that I know of that, who is close to me; in fact
it’s a family member who I believed to be for a second time and recently
at the bottom of his barrel. And he’s not asking for help that I know of
directly, like of another person. I’m not even really sure how he’s
dealing with it. But when does one know, other than I guess you’re going
to say just to listen? I’ve tried to listen in regard to this. But
because it’s a close family member, it’s sort of hard to feel
comfortable with doing nothing. But I believe that’s how I’m being
directed right now.

You spoke to me about this when it was occurring some time ago. And at
that time you mentioned, “Well, he’s gone really down under.” He got way
down there. But at that time he was starting to come up again—meaning
that he was starting to not listen to that voice that was giving him the
final option. So, I’m trying not to be concerned about it because I know
that doesn’t help. But at the same time I can be honest in saying I’m
not really sure if I’ve heard correctly in regard to there being nothing
more for me to do other than what I’ve already done.
</div> 

You have been hearing absolutely correctly. And you must understand that
because Reality is the only thing going on, even though you look at it
and call it “the world,” everything will conspire to stand in support of
this family member’s realization and healing. And therefore, you will
know when it is time. And circumstances will provide you with the
opportunity, without your trying to create the opportunity. Even, you
might say, in the illusion, Divine Order still operates, because the
illusion is only a distortion, or a distorted perception, of Reality,
with a capital “R”—God being All. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yes.
</div> 

Okay.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So, the more relaxed I am about it, that’s the best way I can be of help
now.
</div> 

Yes, because that is what will allow you to be undistracted when the
Divine Impulse to act occurs.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And I am under the impression that he would not appreciate hearing
anything I have to say right now, at all.
</div> 

Not at the moment. That is correct.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Right. Because of his definitions of how he sees me.
</div> 

No. Because he is absorbed in his own issues.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I see.
</div> 

It wouldn’t matter who it came from at this time.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay.
</div> 

Okay. Any other questions with reference to last week’s discussion?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I want to talk about raccoons. [laughing] [audience laughter]

Today in modern psychology, there’s a new buzz word going around called
“flow.” And actually several authors have written about it. And what it
talks about &hellip; obviously there’s a . . . in this paradigm shift that
we’re involved in, a lot of people are saying that all the depression,
all of the dissatisfaction, all of the unfulfillment is upsetting a lot
of people so that the old paradigm of psychology no longer seems to be
working. So this term “flow” now has come in where it’s linked with
happiness—looking forward to going to your job, being happy with your
life, feeling like you’re in the flow—to put it &hellip; to expand on the
catch phrase.

The question that I have, and athletes have the same thing you know,
like certain athletes know that they’re going to win that race that day,
because they’re just in an altered state of mind, so to speak. The
dynamic there &hellip; and, of course, some psychologists are more in the
spiritual, in the spiritual bent, where they’re saying there is a Divine
Connection going on. Okay.

But this catch phrase, “being in the flow,” is so bandied about. I’m
wondering if you can be in the flow and not be conscious of being
connected with your Guide, or with God, or with &hellip; you see what I
mean? Or is there always some subliminal realization that something else
is going on? Do you see what I’m getting at? Is it not &hellip; is it
another ego dynamic that we’re talking about? Or is there an actual
thing that these people are experiencing where they’re, at some level,
they’re recognizing that they’re not alone, that there is Divine
Guidance happening, and that’s what’s responsible for their superlative
experience?
</div> 

The latter. Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So it’s not like what we’re doing here. But at some level they recognize
that’s it’s just not them being responsible for being in the flow. Is
that what you mean by &hellip;
</div> 

That is correct.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay. So I take it &hellip;
</div> 

What is different about that from being here?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Well, in other words, the difference I see is that we acknowledge that
we’re… that this level of incompetence—ego incompetence, okay—is there.
Okay? And that we need help. “Help.” Where these guys, they train hard,
they &hellip; you know what I mean? And then one day they wake up and they
go, “I can feel it. I’m in the flow. I’m going to win this event.”
That’s what I mean. It’s just that we’re conscious of the mechanism
that’s going on. Or at least we’re see &hellip; you know, we have the
ability to be conscious.
</div> 

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Whether we practice it, or not, is another thing. Where these guys
aren’t &hellip;
</div> 

And what I’m after is not only to be conscious of the mechanism, but for
each of you to actually engage in it, like the athlete you’re talking
about. He’s really doing it. And it has nothing to do with understanding
the mechanism. Understanding the mechanism has nothing to do with
actually engaging in it; it’s just a thought about engaging in it.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I see.
</div> 

So, the athlete that engages in it, if you want to put it this way, is
further ahead than those of you who understand the mechanism but haven’t
engaged it.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I see. I see. Okay, thank you.
</div> 

The Truth has nothing to do with words. It has nothing to do with
grasping concepts. It has nothing to do with understanding mechanisms.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
It’s experiential.
</div> 

It’s what happens when you abandon yourself to the void. It’s what
happens when you abandon yourself to the unknown, and allow yourself to
be there willingly, without reluctance. Then you feel the flow and you
find yourself in it, and your behavior expresses it—not your idea about
it, not your thought about it, not your understanding of it. And the
fact is that the point of it all is to get the hang of being in the flow
where you find that you don’t have to mess around with words and
concepts and ideas anymore.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
You can feel the flow.
</div> 

Because the point is not to have the experience so that then you can
abandon the experience and intellectualize with everybody about the
experience. It is to succumb to the experience.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And this is akin to the creative process great artists are able to get
into. They get into an altered state by abandoning their personality,
and then they’re taken over by something, and then they create.
</div> 

They get in the movement. Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So that’s another aspect.
</div> 

And yet their getting into the movement is highly focused with oils, or
watercolor, or whatever a medium might be. But then it has nothing to do
with when they’re cooking their dinner.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yes.
</div> 

You see? And we’re talking about being all-inclusive.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yes. Thank you.
</div> 

You are welcome.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So you’re saying we should just let go?
</div> 

Well, at the bottom line, All There Is, is God.

And whatever you think you are that would let go, doesn’t even really
exist. And this is a very important point. If the Ultimate Conscious
Experience of Being is for there to be no Conscious Experience of Being
other than What God Is Being, then whatever conscious experience of
being you’re having at the moment that’s different, isn’t Real, and the
one that’s having it, doesn’t exist. Because it’s just a concept of
yourself that you are focusing on and identifying as you.

The reason this is important is that, although we tread a fine line,
sort of straddling Reality and unreality, the fact is, that because God
is All and the one who thinks he’s waking up doesn’t exist, it is
important not to value too highly the processes of awakening that you’re
going through. Do you see what I mean? It would be well for you to take
time each day to contemplate the fact that the Reality is that God Is
All, and therefore God is All There Is to you. And that’s a done deal.
In other words, the Ultimate you’re going to arrive at is already the
Ultimate right now. The accomplishment, you might say, has already been
accomplished. And all that you’re doing in your process of awakening is
letting yourself into the Conscious Experience of the fact that it’s
always been the fact. It’s always been the Truth. You’ve always been the
exact, perfect, Holy Expression of God.

And again the Expression of God is God expressed. Do you get it? The
Expression of God is not you expressed by God. [pointing to people in
the audience] God, God, God, God, God, God, God, [tapping on the glass
upon the table] the table, the glass—it’s God.

That’s why it’s called a journey without distance. Because all you’re
going to do is in a moment of defenselessness realize that you never
were what you thought you were and you never were an entity going
through a process of purification to arrive at some evolutionary end
point. “Evolutionary” meaning that you started out as something and
become more, and more, and more, until at the end, what is there is
hardly recognizable compared to the beginning of the journey. You are
not going through an evolutionary process. You are simply coming out of
insanity. You’re simply coming out of misunderstanding. And it’s you,
the absolutely Divine Presence of God, coming out of a misunderstanding
of What You Are and What The World Is—which, as I’ve said over and over,
is the Kingdom of Heaven.

If you grasp this, you will not value your process of awakening so much
that you miss waking up. You see? Because the one who’s apparently in a
process of waking up is part of the illusion. Now, because the one who
is in a process of waking up is really the only one there is—in other
words, God did not create His Self-expression that’s you, and then you
through your imagination created a second creation. If anyone is
deluded, it’s the Son of God—the Divine One That You Are right
now—because you are right now the very one God created, the very one God
Is Being in this very moment as His Self-expression. You, in your
misinterpretation of yourself, identifying yourself by means of
definitions you have created, will seem to be in a process of letting go
of what has nothing to do with you—the Divine You That You Are. And so
this is where walking the fine line occurs, because Clarity, or Sanity,
regarding yourself is going to be experienced right where you are at the
moment in terms of the definition you’re holding of yourself in the
moment, and the undoing of it.

But mind you, even though there seems to be this process of letting go
of distorted perceptions of yourself, you can become preoccupied with
that process. And that’s what &hellip; that is why it’s important to
remember that the Ultimate About You is present right now—never was
altered, even though you have imagined it was, and you believe your
imagination—so that you might understand that although there will seem
to be a process, the process isn’t necessary. The process isn’t the
focal point. And that will speed up the return of your Sanity.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Wow.

So what’s the focal point then?
</div> 

The fact that the Ultimate is already the fact. The end of the journey
is where you are experiencing this sense of a journey that is no journey
at all.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So all of this you’re not talking &hellip;
</div> 

I’m sorry.

The question was, “So what is the focal point?” And that’s what I was
responding to.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So, in all of this, you are not responding to Michael, the man sitting
over there on the chair, and you are not responding to Judy, the woman
sitting over there on the couch, and you’re not responding to Ryan, the
man sitting here, all coming as individuals.
</div> 

Nor is the chair you’re sitting on “wood,” or the couch she’s sitting on
“fabric.” It’s all God and it is Meaning that expresses incredible
Divine Intelligence and Love and Truth and Life, even though it seems to
be inanimate, and so on. All of this that could be defined as you were
defining it, is not the way I’m experiencing it.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And so what seems like all of us coming from disparate places tonight
and for different reasons, that’s all the illusion, and we are the One
Mind Son of God, present right here, right now, for ever and ever,
waiting to wake up to the fact that the &hellip;
</div> 

That you’re already there. [audience laughter]

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
&hellip; many is the illusion, and that we are One right now.
</div> 

Exactly.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And right here.
</div> 

Exactly.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And we all love each other to a very deep and incredible degree.
</div> 

Indeed.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
[in the background] And that doesn’t blow us away.
</div> 

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So Michael can’t wake up without everybody else waking up. It’s not an
individual thing. It’s the wholeness awakening.
</div> 

I’m going to put it this way. There are those of the Brotherhood who are
Awake, but the simplest way I can put it is that our being Awake is not
completed until you are Awake.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Because it is not separate from the Oneness that is here present with us
now.
</div> 

That is correct.

But until you are consciously experiencing it, you cannot join in the
communion that is Unity. And so part of our Conscious Experience of
Union is held up from being experienced because you are distracted by
your processes, and your commitment to your perceptions. And so, you
could say, we are not experiencing our Wholeness completely, because
part of our Wholeness being experienced is your experiencing yours/ours.
Yours which is inseparably part of ours. Yours which is inseparable from
you experiencing yourself and all of us together as ours.

There are those who would say that if you’re Awake, if one is Awake, why
would he bother with you? Well, because you are part of me. You are part
of the infiniteness of me. And as long as that part of the infiniteness
of me is insisting on isolating himself to his own private, personal
interpretations of things, I can’t enjoy full conscious communion with
him. And so, you could say, well, it’s self-serving for me to help. But
it’s not a selfish self-serving. It’s because although you don’t
recognize your Unity with me, I do. And you are embraced, consciously
embraced by every one of Us Who Are Awake; not just me. You are
consciously embraced—supportively, but not manipulatively—in your, you
might say, being distracted from your distraction long enough to let
something else register with you, because that’s where the communion can
occur. And that’s where the beginning of Unity occurs.

Now we had better get into the book. And we might as well start with
you.

[Editor’s Note: The section heading is: WHOLENESS AND SPIRIT ]

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The miracle is much like the body in that both are learning aids for
facilitating a state in which they become unnecessary.[^2]
</div> 

Yes. And we’re going to stop right there. [some audience laughter]

They become unnecessary as learning-tools. If you were looking at God
and saying, “That isn’t God,” then that which you are looking at and
denying the Truth of becomes the point where clarification needs to
occur. Therefore, that which you are calling “not God” becomes a
learning-tool. And once the learning has occurred and it is recognized
for what it is, it ceases to be a learning-tool. But it doesn’t
disappear.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So there is no sacrifice involved?
</div> 

That is correct.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I don’t have to wake up and lose my family and friends and all the
people I love and everything that has ever meant anything to me.
</div> 

Or what you call your body.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Right.
</div> 

Exactly. Exactly. The fact is you won’t lose anything. You will have it
more completely.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When spirit’s original state of direct communication is reached, neither
the body nor the miracle serves any purpose. While you believe you are
in a body, however, you can choose between loveless and miraculous
channels of expression. You can make an empty shell, but you cannot
express nothing at all. You can wait, delay, paralyze yourself, or
reduce your creativity almost to nothing.
</div> 

Just a moment.

And you may do it by becoming preoccupied with your process of
awakening.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
But you cannot abolish it. You can destroy your medium of communication,
but not your potential. You did not create yourself.
</div> 

And it’s because you did not create yourself that you do not have the
capacity to un-create yourself. And it is because you did not create
yourself that you do not have the capacity to successfully think that
you have created yourself and can creatively modify that creation
indefinitely.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
May I [say something]?
</div> 

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And then, therefore, I take it that we can’t screw it up either.
</div> 

Of course not.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
We can delay it. We can delay it, but we can’t screw it up.
</div> 

You can sidetrack yourself, as in a daydream in a school classroom, but
you can’t make the classroom go away, and you can’t make the education
that is occurring there stop. That is right.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Hallelujah.
</div>

But you can miss the learning for a while.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
[in the background] That’s stupid rest.
</div> 

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The basic decision of the miracle-minded is not to wait on time any
longer than is necessary. Time can waste as well as be wasted. The
miracle worker, therefore, accepts the time-control factor gladly. He
recognizes that every collapse of time brings everyone closer to the
ultimate release from time, in which the Son and the Father are one.
</div> 

This is important.

He recognizes that every collapse of time that he experiences
individually by virtue of the miracle, brings everyone else as well,
closer to the ultimate release from time. Just as there are no private
thoughts, there is no private enlightenment.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Equality does not imply equality now. When everyone recognizes that he
has everything, individual contributions to the Sonship will no longer
be necessary.
</div> 

What do you think that means?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; individual contributions to the Sonship will no longer be
necessary.
</div>

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
There never have been individual contributions to the Sonship.
</div> 

Yes, there have. Every time &hellip; every time you have allowed a miracle
to occur and you have become clearer, you have made a contribution to
the Sonship, because what I’m going to call the absence of illumination
which seems to be present in the Sonship who is having dreams becomes
more illuminated. And so you have made a contribution, an individual
contribution to the increased Conscious Experience of Oneness of the
Whole Sonship.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
‘Cause I let my Light shine. I get it. I &hellip;
</div> 

Yeah, that’s right.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Then when I was working with what I was talking about &hellip;
</div> 

But it’s interesting &hellip; it’s interesting to be aware that the
individual contribution you give in that instance is not because you
initiated it, but because you set aside your sense of authoritative-self
and let God be you more clearly.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yeah. Being clueless brought me there, but I had to let go of being
clueless as, you know, that’s not something I can hang on to and go into
that experience.
</div> 

That’s correct.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And when I was asking I got the &hellip; which I’m finding that you are
very willing to work with concepts, and work with me in concepts,
whereas I’m finding that my Guide is not very willing to work with me
conceptually. But, and I don’t know where it came from, but I got the
idea that what we’re talking about was Zen. That when I was joining with
the flower, or with the wood that I was working on &hellip;
</div> 

I can understand why your Guide doesn’t. And I’m not going to join you
right now in conceptualizing it as being like Zen. [some audience
laughter] Stop it.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
That was a concept?
</div> 

Of course.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
But it’s talking and somebody had an experience.
</div> 

Ah. Somebody had an experience.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And then they conceptualized it.
</div> 

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And then somebody wrote it down. And somebody fixed their motorcycle
using that concept. [some audience laughter]
</div> 

Yes. And&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And get over it.
</div> 

But let’s &hellip; but talk to me about the one who had the experience. And
talk to me about the experience. And talk to me about you’re having the
experience. And to hell with the letters “z-e-n,” or a concept. We’ve
been talking for a number of weeks based on what we’re reading in A
Course In Miracles. Tonight I told you that the athlete who actually
let’s himself into the experience is further along than you are, further
along than what we’ve been talking about. What we’re talking about,
we’re talking about for the purpose of leading you to a point of
curiosity great enough to let yourself abandon yourself to the Flow, to
the Movement. And so to hell with the word “Zen.” To hell with the
words, “a course in miracles.” If it doesn’t register with you that
we’re at the bottom line talking about your abandoning your present
sense of yourself and not getting hung up on the process by which this
sense of yourself apparently yields to What You Truly Are &hellip;

I’m sorry this is me, Paul. I lost it. [pause] He’s continuing:

You will not begin to be engaged in the movement, the transformational
movement of coming back into your Right Mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I won’t be engaged in it?
</div> 

No, because you’ll be too self-satisfied.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Well, it felt good when I, you know, had this experience of harmony and
I saw life as good. And, you know, I mean this week that felt good.
</div> 

Okay. Put simply, until you realize that it’s all about an experience,
and you’re willing to abandon making a great deal out of your process,
you won’t yield into the experience, you won’t engage in the experience,
and therefore you will not take &hellip; you will not take the first
essential step which constitutes the return of your Sanity.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Damn. All them big books I read screwed me right up.
</div> 

What you let them do to you, what you made them do to you, screwed you
up. If they had managed to inspire you to abandon any sense of
self-confidence that you thought you had, then you would not be screwed
up, because you would have let yourself into that place where God can
register with you and reveal to you that He is All There Is of you, and
that you are not anything of what you had been imagining you were.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And that happened, too. I mean that happened, too. That was part of the
experience of some places in some books.
</div> 

Yes. But what the books did to you that wasn’t helpful is the use you
put the books to.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yeah. The metaphysical models and the conceptualizing everything.
</div> 

Indeed.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So we should let go to the Flow, realizing that All There Is is God, and
we’re in Heaven, and there is nothing bad that can happens to us. But
that gets pretty hard ‘cause sometimes things look pretty scary and that
knocks us right out of this Flow.
</div> 

It can tempt you to get out of the Flow.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So even when it’s scary, we should push right ahead and say &hellip;
</div> 

No. You should. Pushing ahead is willfulness.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
[laughing] Just let it come on. Come on, bring it on?
</div> 

No. Because what’s scaring you is not What The It Really Is, but your
misperception of It. And so you’ve got to stop right there where the
scariness is occurring and reach beyond your spontaneous definitions
based on your past experience to say, “Father, what is the Meaning here?
Father, how do I see the Wholeness of Being identified here where I am
afraid that lack or loss is going to occur?” You must persist in
substantiating the connection. Because when you become afraid, scared,
it means you have already withdrawn into a private perception.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Scared is just a sign that we’re out of the Flow.
</div> 

And out of the communion. And out of your connectedness, your connected
experience of the Allness of God. And therefore, not connected where the
uncovering of the Movement of God that has to be happening there, can be
revealed to you as What It Really Is. Yes, it gets scary. But it only
gets scary to your ego.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Because we can’t be harmed at all in Truth because of Where We Are and
What We Are.
</div> 

But it’s scary to your ego because it means that it can’t be in control.
And you are not honoring your ego, and that scares your ego, because the
one thing, as I’ve said, that the ego cannot defend itself against is
disregard. So, yes. Yes, it can seem to get scary. That’s not
inevitable. But when it does, it means that you have been willing to
distance yourself from the communion and look at it all by yourself. And
you’ve got to reverse that.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
But that’s what we think everybody else here is doing. Because we think
there is an “everybody else” here, and so it’s hard to take the step
acknowledging that there is no “everybody else” here, but only the Son
of God.
</div> 

The Infinite One That I Am.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
The Infinite One That I Am.
</div> 

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Expressing as &hellip;
</div> 

And so the ego throws out this fantastic suggestion that you may be able
to experience clarity and be in your peace in this situation, but that
doesn’t mean that everyone else will. And everyone else still has their
mutually-agreed-upon definitions of everything with which they try to
govern you, and that will put you at risk. And therefore, it may not be
wise for you to continue to yield to the Flow, because it will cause you
to be vulnerable.

Now, the fact is that conflict cannot be experienced in Unity
Consciousness. Conflict can only be experienced by one who is choosing
to look at things by himself. And so the one who is afraid that he could
be at a disadvantage—even if he is clear, because others aren’t—is
seeing the inevitable conflict, or is experiencing the inevitable inner
conflicted-ness that is inseparable from having been willing to look at
things privately. And therefore, has lost his peace, which is the
fundamental element of Unity Consciousness in which, if he had chosen to
stay there, he would find himself able to be utterly appropriate,
whether others seemed to have seen the Truth or not, and that resolution
will occur and vulnerability will not. But that takes trust. And that
takes willingness. And it takes Someone Who Is Awake to tell you what is
happening so that you can recognize it, and dare to trust, where you
couldn’t have mustered up the courage to do it based on the insufficient
information you currently had. Okay.

Let’s continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When the Atonement has been completed, all talents will be shared by all
the Sons of God. God is not partial. All His children have His total
Love, and all His gifts are freely given to everyone alike.
</div> 

It is the Father’s good pleasure to give you the Kingdom—All of Himself.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
“Except ye become as little children” means that unless you fully
recognize your complete dependence on God, . .
</div> 

&hellip; oh, there it is. [audience laughter] There’s the deep, dark secret
that’s hidden in the darkness. There it is bold as life. “Except ye
become as little children” means that unless you fully
recognize—fully—fully without reserve—fully recognize your complete
dependence on God.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you cannot know the real power of the Son in his true relationship
with the Father.
</div> 

And I won’t tell you, and no one will tell you what that means ahead of
time, [small laugh] because your ego will grab hold of it and see it as
its ultimate potential if it shuts up until you get to that realization.
And to whatever degree your ego can be slipped into your back pocket so
that it can get into the Kingdom of Heaven, you will not get there,
because you will not fully recognize your complete dependence on God.
And that’s why I mentioned last week that once you realize your complete
dependence on God, and joining occurs fully, you will still be
completely dependant on God because you were never created as an
independent anything.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Hallelujah.
</div> 

That’s how absolute this is.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Always be a part of God.
</div> 

Now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
“Except ye become as little children” means that unless you fully
recognize your complete dependence on God, you cannot know the real
power of the Son in his true relationship with the Father.
</div> 

That’s as far as one can go in encouraging you, because your ego says
that to be completely dependant means to have no power. But this is
telling you that when you do acknowledge your complete dependence, your
total personal incompetence, you will know the real power of the Son in
his true relationship with the Father. It is not going to be a loss of
any kind.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The specialness of God’s Sons does not stem from exclusion but from
inclusion.
</div> 

Indeed &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
All my brothers are special. If they believe they are deprived of
anything, their perception becomes distorted. When this occurs the whole
family of God, or the Sonship, is impaired in its relationships.
</div> 

The *whole* family.

If just two, because one can’t do it by himself, if just two move into
distorted perception, the Whole Sonship becomes impaired in its
relationships. Impaired only this far, in that those two who mutually
joined in a definition at odds with What The Father Was Being are
unavailable to the rest, and out of all of the Sonship there are two
whose relationship is impaired with the rest. But everyone, all of the
Brotherhood—and I put this in quote[s]—“suffers an impairment of
relationship when just two decide to become independent and behave as
though they are and ignore the rest of the Brotherhood.” It does not
cause all of the rest of the Brotherhood that has not indulged in these
mutual definitions to have impaired relationships with each other.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Is it ever been that there’s no one not Awake?
</div> 

Of course. You might say in the beginning.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Ancient times.
</div> 

No. It would be better to think that it was in this very moment. You’re
not having an accumulated experience of ignorance. You’re having a
current experience of ignorance. [audience laughter] It’s at this very
moment [audience laughter] that you’re choosing to not be Awake.

So there, see there’s another concept. Tonight I’m not going to go with
you there anymore than your Guide will. Stop conceptualizing. You can
see that it gets you into trouble. Because you can paint a picture of
ancient times, oh, my God, and the dinosaur bones. [audience laughter]
And the caveman if there really was a caveman.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I just get so excited.
</div> 

But the point is that when you draw this very creative picture of time,
ancient pillars and &hellip; 

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
You’re better at it than I am.
</div> 

Indeed. [audience laughter.] Indeed. And submerged civilizations &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Wow.
</div> 

&hellip; with the fish swimming around.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Atlantis.
</div> 

And you create these marvelous images.

Well, for one thing, you can come to the conclusion that because your
ignorance was so long in developing, it must be going to take an equally
long time for it to be gotten out of. But the fact is that it was at
this very moment that you created a picture of the past. And it’s in
this very moment that you’re choosing not to be Awake. And it’s in this
very moment that you are already the Ultimate Divine Being that God Is
Being right there where I see you. That is what is here at this very
moment.

So stop conceptualizing. Stop making it hard for yourself by having
these incredible pictures. And begin to be curious in this moment to see
the Ultimate that’s going on right now. I said last week, you are
experiencing Eternity right now. There is nothing else to be
experienced. And you are experiencing Reality at this moment. There is
nothing else to be experienced. It’s not off in the future. And it’s not
unavailable in the moment. But you’ve got to start being curious. As
I’ve said before, you’ve got to be willing to look with innocent
eyes—eyes that are not looking through preconceptions where you see what
you expect to see.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I had some experiences this week of letting my Light shine.
</div> 

Yes. But don’t slip back into the old habits. Do your best not to get
into concepts.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
That’s been what’s the conversation’s been going on.
</div> 

Indeed. Okay.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
We have the Brotherhood. We have Awakened Brothers. We have unawakened
Brothers. And all of them also are fully present right here, right now.
</div> 

Absolutely.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Because there is no other place, there is no off in China for all those
Brothers to be, except in our conceptualization, because those Brothers
also are right here, right now, with us as present as each of the bodies
I see sitting here in this particular expression of the Sonship.
</div> 

That is correct. And every single one of them is completely aware of
everything that is happening here, right now, and also aware of what is
happening at other places in the Universe that have nothing to do with A
Course In Miracles, or anything to do with those who are in a process of
awakening. There is nothing unavailable to the mind that is not
insisting upon having a separate, private perception of things. All that
is going on is being experienced simultaneously. You are correct.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Or a concept.
</div> 

No. It is not a concept. [lots of audience laughter]. Turn it into a
concept and [snaps fingers] lose the learning.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Indeed. [audience laughter]
</div> 

Now continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Ultimately, every member of the family of God must return.
</div> 

Because they never left. [single audience laugh] They &hellip; ultimately
everyone is bound to realize where they are.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Without a map.
</div> 

Indeed, continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The miracle calls him to return because it blesses and honors him, even
though he may be absent in spirit.
</div> 

Yes &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
“God is not mocked” is not a warning but a reassurance. God would be
mocked if any of His creations lacked holiness.
</div> 

Or lacked Ultimate-ness. Or lacked what He had created, what He had
expressed of Himself right there, which was All of Himself.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The creation is whole, and the mark of wholeness is holiness. Miracles
are affirmations of Sonship, which is a state of completion and
abundance.
</div> 

Pretty simple. Miracles are un-coverings of What You Already Are. And
What You Already Are is complete and abundant. Miracles are like
glimpses that afford you a truer sense of yourself, which naturally
leads to further glimpses.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Whatever is true is eternal, and cannot change or be changed. Spirit is
therefore unalterable because it is already perfect, but the mind can
elect what it chooses to serve. The only limit put on its choice is that
it cannot serve two masters. If it elects to do so, the mind can become
the medium by which spirit creates along the line of its own creation.
If it does not freely elect to do so, it retains its creative potential
but places itself under tyrannous rather than Authoritative control.
</div> 

Yes. Because if it chooses for the voice for fear—there are only two
voices—the Voice for Truth and the voice for fear—if it chooses for the
voice for fear, then everything that follows will be one form of defense
or another. And defense is always attack. And so it becomes tyrannical
in its attempts to control life so that the threat it perceives doesn’t
harm it. In the process, it harms others, apparently.

Continue: It says it right here.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As a result it imprisons, because such are the dictates of tyrants.
</div> 

Yes. However, it only imprisons those who have also mutually agreed to
these terms.

I don’t agree to them, so whenever any of you gets tyrannical, I just
smile. It doesn’t strike fear in my heart, because I haven’t joined you
in your mutually-agreed-upon definition that causes you to see
everything in a polarized state, that causes you to see Unity as
polarity. And which automatically calls for defense.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To change your mind means to place it at the disposal of true Authority.
</div> 

Yes. To change your mind initially appears to be you abandoning your
mind, because you think that thinking is the indication of the presence
of a mind. You think that if there is a mind present, or if mind is
functioning, it is functioning as thinking. But it isn’t true.

To change your mind means to choose again. You have only two choices. To
listen to and obey the voice for fear, or to listen to and obey the
Voice for Truth. This does mean abandoning your thinking. But when you
have abandoned your thinking, you find you are still conscious. And when
you’re not thinking, there is no voice for fear speaking, ever. And in
the silence you can hear the Voice for Truth and place your mind at the
disposal of it.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The miracle is a sign that the mind has chosen to be led by me in
Christ’s service.
</div> 

Oh, darn it. There’s that word “led” again. [audience laughter] Led like
sheep. Don’t you have a lot of derogatory phrases relative to being led?
Led around by the nose.

Well, if you’re not led by me, if you are not led by an Awakened Brother
in Christ’s service, then you’re still choosing to hold onto a supposed
capacity that you think you have to be authoritative on your own. And
the fact is that you’re being duped. Because if you’re not listening to
me, if you’re not listening to the Voice for Truth, you are listening to
the voice for fear and you’re not succeeding in being a self on your own
that has a capacity to think on its own and be creative on its own.

You have only two choices. To be led around by the Voice for Truth, or
to be led around by the voice for fear. Either way you’re going to be
led. I don’t mean you specifically. The only thing is that when you’re
led around by the voice for fear, the voice for fear lets you believe
that you’re doing it yourself. And doesn’t that feel good?

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The abundance of Christ is the natural result of choosing to follow Him.
All shallow roots must be uprooted, because they are not deep enough to
sustain you. The illusion that shallow roots can be deepened, and thus
made to hold, is one of the distortions on which the reverse of the
Golden Rule rests. As these false underpinnings are given up, the
equilibrium is temporarily experienced as unstable.
</div> 

Yes. You all had that experience.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
However, nothing is less stable than an upside-down orientation. Nor can
anything that holds it upside down be conducive to increased stability.
</div> 

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So the Golden Rule is do unto others as you would have them do unto you.
And the reverse of the Golden Rule is do it to others before they do it
to you? Is that &hellip;
</div> 

That is a fair rendition, yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay.
</div> 

Do it to others before they do what you think they’re going to do to
you. Powerful, isn’t it?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
It’s big business.
</div> 

You create a picture of another through the use of your imagination
without checking in with God first to see if that’s the Truth. And then
you act toward them, based on the picture you have created. And you do
to them whatever you pictured them doing to you. Yes.

It’s upside-down thinking to think that you have any authority separate
and apart from your Source, any capacity for creativity on your own, any
apparent capacity to actually be reasonable, or to express reason that
is valuable. It is upside-down thinking to think that you are an
original thinker. It is upside-down thinking to think that you can be a
leader. It’s all the insulting things that you really are—helpless,
incompetent, incapable, unable, and unreal &hellip;

(I’m sorry. Just that I &hellip; that’s me Paul [who] said I’m sorry. Just
a moment.)

&hellip; and unreal—in the sense of being a presence which is refining
itself and engaged in actual real processes of awakening. You see? It’s
so insulting. But it’s all true. And if the Truth of it can register
with you, it will cause you to withdraw your intensity and your
investment and your commitment to furthering all of the things that are
not insulting to you, which the ego tells you is true about you, and
actually beginning to reach out and say “Help.” Knowing that in the act
of genuinely saying “Help,” you provide the environment and the occasion
for a miracle, a sudden shift in perception. And any one of those
miracles can be the first domino that causes a spontaneous and total
awakening [snaps fingers] now into the awareness of What You Truly Are
and were, the moment before when the domino &hellip; when the first domino
fell. And that it’s only a blink of an eye, time wise, between your
ignorance and your Ultimate Total Clarity. I can’t say it any more
clearly than that.

And with that good news we will end for the evening.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Thank you.
</div> 

You are welcome.

You will be Awake before we get to the end of this book [a lot of
laughter by everyone] at this rate.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Is that a promise? [a lot of laughter by everyone] Who said that, Paul
or Raj?
</div> 

Not Paul.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Is that a promise?

We are kind of taking our time.

We’ll be dead before we get to the end of this book. [more laughter]

‘Cause I always heard that we couldn’t take it all at once. Like this
business of a half of a blink, well, I &hellip; boy, that’s everything to
me. But then I’ve heard other comments that it wouldn’t be fair to us if
we got it that fast. You know, we couldn’t take it.
</div> 

It will happen at the fastest rate it can without your experiencing a
loss of identity in the process, because there is only One You, and that
identicalness, you might say, that inseparable Oneness of You must
remain intact as your experience of what you are grows into Wholeness.
And if you can bear it, you might say, it can happen in an instant.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
What’s the likelihood of that at this point in time?
</div> 

It doesn’t matter. That isn’t where your attention should be.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I know. I know that. I just thought I might get lucky. [laughter]

[with the mic now] I just thought I might get lucky. [laughing]
</div> 

I understand.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Well, because you surprise me all the time, you know. Every time I think
I’ve got it figured out, you know, where you’re coming from, then you
throw a curveball in, you know. So I might as well &hellip;
</div> 

That’s because it doesn’t work to conceptualize and think you have it
pegged.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Right. Right.
</div> 

The minute you think you have it pegged, you have yourself like a
butterfly mounted on an exhibit board. You are pegged, and you are
stabilized, and you are stuck, and you are immobilized.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Or I can’t take it all at once, so I better not expect it to happen in
half a blink.
</div> 

Indeed. Indeed.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Well, I’m happy to hear that.
</div> 

Okay.

[^1]: Students commenting or asking a question.
[^2]: ACIM 2nd Edition: T1.V Wholeness and Spirit

