---
title: Oct 24, 2002
ref: T1.VII Distortions of Miracle Impulses
---

Good evening. And good evening to everyone listening on the internet as
well.

Okay. Start right in.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Fantasy is a distorted form of vision.[^1]
</div>

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Fantasies of any kind are distortions, because they always involve
twisting perception into unreality.
</div>

Yes. I&rsquo;m going to interrupt you now.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Fantasy is a distorted form of vision.
</div>

In other words, it&rsquo;s a distorted form of Something Real. It isn&rsquo;t a
separate independent phenomenon. This is important to understand. It&rsquo;s
as I&rsquo;ve said before, you can&rsquo;t have a counterfeit of nothing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Fantasy is a distorted form of vision.
</div>

And Vision is Real.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Fantasies of any kind are distortions, because they always involve
twisting perception into unreality.
</div>

In other words, they always involve twisting the experience of Something
Real in a manner that causes it to be perceived as different from What
It Really Is. Therefore, you cannot look at anything and say,
&ldquo;This doesn&rsquo;t exist.&rdquo; All you can say is, &ldquo;The
way I&rsquo;m perceiving it is not valid.&rdquo; And when this is clear,
you will understand why I keep saying to give your attention to where
you are, give your attention to anything you see, with curiosity to see
more than the bias you have applied to Reality causing you to see what
you think you see, instead of What Is Really There.

The moment you say, &ldquo;This is an illusion. This does not
exist,&rdquo; it is logical to assume that to give any further attention
to it, is a waste of time. And as a result, you withdraw your attention
from the very place that Vision would reveal to you the Kingdom of
Heaven. This is so important to understand, so that you don&rsquo;t
become ungrounded in your metaphysics. So that you don&rsquo;t become
ungrounded in your spirituality.  So that you don&rsquo;t become
ungrounded in your miracle-readiness. Because if you&rsquo;re denying
the place where the miracle is going to occur for you, you can&rsquo;t
hardly say you&rsquo;re miracle-ready. So it&rsquo;s your brother,
it&rsquo;s your sister, it&rsquo;s your husband, your wife, your child,
your friend, as I keep saying, the glass top on the table, the leaf, the
blossom&ndash;each is the threshold of your abandonment of the bias you
have given to the way you&rsquo;re looking at them, and the opportunity
to have Vision restored, so that you can see What Is Really There.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Actions that stem from distortions are literally the reactions of those
who know not what they do.
</div>

Yes. When you have a misunderstanding and act on the basis of it, your
actions bear no relation to Reality.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Fantasy is an attempt to control reality according to false needs.
</div>

Yes. But where did the false needs come from? The false needs came after
the initiation of the fantasy, because until you formulated this
fantasy, you were in complete connection with and unity with All of
Reality. It wasn&rsquo;t until the fantasy, the bias, was applied, and you
stopped seeing Reality and experiencing your Oneness with it, that a
sense of isolation came into the picture; a sense of aloneness, a sense
of tininess in the face of infinity. And it wasn&rsquo;t until then that fear
entered and a call for defense to protect yourself against the humongous
allness of everything that wasn&rsquo;t you any longer. You see? And so then,
you began to practice control of everything you saw, to keep you safe,
which constituted an even greater denial of Reality, because now you&rsquo;ve
not only separated yourself from it, you are seeing it as your enemy and
actively defending yourself against it.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Twist reality in any way and you are perceiving destructively.
</div>

Now it&rsquo;s important to understand here that this isn&rsquo;t a
judgment on you.  &ldquo;You are perceiving destructively. Shame on
you.&rdquo; That&rsquo;s not what it&rsquo;s about. When you twist
Reality in any way &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Twist reality in any way and you are perceiving destructively.
</div>

You are perceiving in a way that doesn&rsquo;t work. You are perceiving in a
way that doesn&rsquo;t allow you to be in harmony with Reality. You&rsquo;re
perceiving in a way that causes you to be defended against what in the
final analysis is All The Rest Of You, and so you are in a constant
state of Self-denial. Destructive &hellip; it&rsquo;s not destructive in the
sense that anything can be destroyed, because what God has created is
unalterable, but it&rsquo;s destructive in the sense that what it accomplishes
is not relieving &hellip; it contributes nothing to your being Sane.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Fantasies are a means of making false associations and attempting to
obtain pleasure from them. But although you can perceive false
associations, you can never make them real except to yourself. You
believe in what you make. If you offer miracles, you will be equally
strong in your belief in them. The strength of your conviction will then
sustain the belief of the miracle receiver.
</div>

Yes. But likewise, the strength of your conviction will also sustain the
belief of the receiver of your twisted perception of them. So you must
be careful how you think about your Brother. You have a responsibility.
You have a responsibility because what you think has its effect, and you
cannot get away from that. So obviously, you have a choice. You can
offer fantasy, or, you can offer miracles.

Make the choice. And let that be your motto everyday this next week.
Make the choice for whether you&rsquo;re going to offer fantasy or miracles.
And if you&rsquo;re going to offer miracles, you&rsquo;re going to have to abandon
your best judgments, your best reasoning, your best thinking, and ask
God, &ldquo;What&rsquo;s going on here? What do I need to say? Who is this that I&rsquo;m
looking at?&rdquo; So that you might experience insight and see more clearly
yourself. So that you might offer that Vision. And the strength of your
conviction in that Vision, will sustain the belief of the one receiving
the Clarity in your mind.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Reality is &ldquo;lost&rdquo; through &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; fantasies become. The sentence before.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The strength of your conviction will then sustain the belief of the
miracle receiver.
</div>

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Reality is &ldquo;lost&rdquo; through usurpation&hellip;
</div>

Wow.

The next sentence in the second version, the second edition, is:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Fantasies become totally unnecessary as the wholly satisfying nature of
reality becomes apparent to both giver and receiver.

[Repeats] Fantasies become totally unnecessary as the wholly satisfying
nature of reality becomes apparent to both giver and receiver.
</div>

Now continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Reality is &ldquo;lost&rdquo; through usurpation, which produces tyranny. As long as
a single &ldquo;slave&rdquo; remains to walk the earth, your release is not
complete.
</div>

And as I told you before, as long as a single one of you is not Totally
Awake, our release, my release, the release of Those Who Are Awake, is
not complete. And that is why we stand on your behalf, and stand with
you, and stand ready to be in support of your ever-increasing Clarity.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Complete restoration of the Sonship is the only goal of the
miracle-minded.
</div>

Yes.

It is really important for me to emphasize the fact that every one of Us
Who Is Awake is devoted to your Awakening. And when the idea is
expressed that Those Who Are Awake have too many wonderful things to do
to be occupied with you poor souls, don&rsquo;t let that sink in, don&rsquo;t let
that register with you, and reject it outright.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
That&rsquo;s never a thought of yours, of the Ones That Are Awake, and that
they feel sorry for us.[^2]
</div>

Never.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Never. I didn&rsquo;t think [it was].
</div>

Never. But there is an emptiness that we feel, because you don&rsquo;t see
us. You don&rsquo;t recognize our Presence. And those who have never heard
what I&rsquo;m sharing, experience no hope at having that&ndash;our
Presence&ndash;confirmed in their lives, and don&rsquo;t even reach out. So there is
an emptiness that we are intent upon filling, or illuminating the
fullness of, but it&rsquo;s not with sadness, and there is never any lesser
opinion of you than we have of ourselves. Indeed.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is a course in mind training. All learning involves attention and
study at some level. Some of the later parts of the course rest too
heavily on these earlier sections not to require their careful study.
You will also need them for preparation. Without this, you may become
much too fearful of what is to come to make constructive use of it.
However, as you study these earlier sections, you will begin to see some
of the implications that will be amplified later on.
</div>

That&rsquo;s perfectly clear. Not heavily loaded with spirituality. And not
requiring much comment. It simply lets you know that there is much to
look forward to, and that you are embarking on something that is far
from a flight of fancy, that it&rsquo;s significant, that you will be changing
and growing, and that it&rsquo;s appropriate for it to be graceful, rather
than frightening or difficult.

Okay. Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
A solid foundation is necessary because of the confusion between fear
and awe to which I have already referred, and which is often made. I
have said that awe is inappropriate in connection with the Sons of God,
because you should not experience awe in the presence of your equals.
</div>

And I am your equal, and your Guides are your equals. And as long as you
hold me, or any of the Brotherhood Who Are Awake, in an awe-full
attitude, it constitutes a means of keeping yourself separate and
unequal.

And you know what? You can&rsquo;t enjoy being with a superior. You can&rsquo;t
relax in the presence of a superior. And even if the so-called superior
is behaving in an utterly-simple loving way with you, you will attribute
to it characteristics that are also awe-full. Feelings of not deserving
it, but being grateful for it, will creep into the picture, and the
relationship will lose its Reality. You see?

You need to know that our relationship is Real, that it&rsquo;s valid, that it
is a connection heart-to-heart, and that the only thing that makes it
special is that it uncovers to you that you deserve it, which makes it
totally un-special, but not insignificant.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
However, it was also emphasized that awe is proper in the presence of
your Creator. I have been careful to clarify my role in the Atonement
without either over- or understating it. I am also trying to do the same
with yours. I have stressed that awe is not an appropriate reaction to
me because of our inherent equality. Some of the later steps in this
course, however, involve a more direct approach to God Himself. It would
be unwise to start on these steps without careful preparation, or awe
will be confused with fear, and the experience will be more traumatic
than beatific. Healing is of God in the end. The means are being
carefully explained to you. Revelation may occasionally reveal the end
to you, but to reach it the means are needed.
</div> 

So now you&rsquo;ve been given a little bit of a hint that later on a
more direct approach to God is in the cards for you. It implies that
that could be overwhelming, and therefore each step of the way has value
in reducing your fear of your good. But nevertheless, it&rsquo;s the
Father&rsquo;s good pleasure to give you the Kingdom, and He&rsquo;s
gifting you with it every single moment. And so, I want you to realize
that a Connection with God can happen at any moment that you&rsquo;re
undefended against it. And it doesn&rsquo;t have to be way down the
road. And so, I ask you to be willing to allow for that to happen. And
don&rsquo;t say, &ldquo;Oh. Well, we haven&rsquo;t gotten to the place
in the Course where we&rsquo;re supposed to have a direct approach [a
more direct approach], or a Direct Experience of God.&rdquo; God is Love
and you don&rsquo;t need to be afraid of it.

God is appearing to you right now. You might say I&rsquo;m appearing to
you right now. But Heaven help you if there&rsquo;s anything added to
the mix, such as &ldquo;a little bit of me.&rdquo; Because I am
reflecting the Father, and Paul is reflecting the Father consciously,
and so you&rsquo;re in Communion with the Father right now. How
frightening is it?

Okay. So, remember that when you look at your Brother, whether your
Brother is consciously allowing the Christ expression, which is the
Christ allowing God expression, realize that this is, at the bottom line
or at the bottom of the barrel, What Your Brother Truly Is, so that
you&rsquo;re not fooled by the presentation of ignorance that your
Brother or Sister is presenting.

Let us continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Chapter 2
</div>

We&rsquo;re making headway. [audience laughter]

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Separation and the Atonement
</div> 

That&rsquo;s like beginning at the beginning.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I. The Origins of Separation
</div>

How it came to pass. Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To extend is a fundamental aspect of God which He gave to His Son.
</div>

Meaning each of you. Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In the creation, God extended Himself to His creations and imbued them
with the same loving Will to create. You have not only been fully
created, but have also been created perfect.
</div> 

That&rsquo;s the Ultimate Truth. That&rsquo;s the Fundamental Fact. And
there&rsquo;s no way to change it.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is no emptiness in you.
</div>

And I would add that, in fact, there is no emptiness in the Brotherhood
as a fact that we need to fill, or that we feel as a limitation upon the
Wholeness of the Brotherhood. And the fact that you are hearing me right
now demonstrates the fact that any emptiness that seems to exist is not
a fact set in place by God, and therefore isn&rsquo;t a fact at all.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have not only been fully created, but have also been created
perfect.
</div>

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Because of your likeness to your Creator you are creative. No child of
God can lose this ability because it is inherent in what he is, but he
can use it inappropriately by projecting. The inappropriate use of
extension, or projection, occurs when you believe that some emptiness or
lack exists in you, and that you can fill it with your own ideas instead
of truth. This process involves the following steps:

First, you believe that what God created can be changed by your own
mind.
</div>

Ah. By providing a little twist. By squinting your eyes. Of course, you
can&rsquo;t change what you&rsquo;re looking at. And if you poke your eyeball, you
can make strange lights appear around everything, even though no one
else sees the lights, but you can become fascinated with it, and thus
provide yourself with an interesting experience, but not an Experience
of Reality.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Second, you believe that what is perfect can be rendered imperfect or
lacking.
</div> 

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Third, you believe that you can distort the creations of God, including
yourself.

Fourth, you believe that you can create yourself, and that the direction
of your own creation is up to you.
</div> 

Fantastic&ndash;and completely false.

Now I want to point out one additional thing. You really can&rsquo;t
accomplish this all by yourself. You can have a false idea, you can have
a strange idea, but it doesn&rsquo;t become anything more than that until you
join with another who agrees with your fantastic idea. It&rsquo;s in the
joining with another with commitment to a fantasy that fantasy begins
to, or that fantasy achieves a so-called &ldquo;state of reality.&rdquo;

Let us continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
These related distortions represent a picture of what actually occurred
in the separation, or the &ldquo;detour into fear.&rdquo; None of this existed
before the separation, nor does it actually exist now.
</div> 

I&rsquo;m going to interrupt you.

The separation was something that two engaged in by mutual agreement to
a fantasy. And the fantasy became a mutually-agreed-upon definition.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Everything God created is like Him. Extension, as undertaken by God, is
similar to the inner radiance that the children of the Father inherit
from Him.
</div> 

As I said some time ago, if you are experiencing joy, even without
expressing a word, others can&rsquo;t help but notice it. It radiates.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Its real source is internal. This is as true of the Son as of the
Father. In this sense the creation includes both the creation of the Son
by God, and the Son&rsquo;s creations when his mind is healed.
</div>

And when the Son&rsquo;s mind is healed, the creations that he extends are the
Presence of God that he is not blocking from finding its way through
him. Again, the Son never becomes an actually independent extender of
anything. And that&rsquo;s why I have used the illustration of everyone being
a puppet, either of the Voice for Truth, or, the voice for fear&ndash;the
puppet of God, or, the puppet of the ego.

In an undefended moment in which revelation occurs and you experience
bliss, everyone else can tell, because you extended it spontaneously;
you might say automatically. You didn&rsquo;t say, &ldquo;Oh, well, I&rsquo;m going to
extend a little bit of bliss here. I&rsquo;m going to send a lot of it there.
And I&rsquo;m going to send more of it there.&rdquo; There&rsquo;s no thought to it.
There&rsquo;s no conscious direction of the extension. When you&rsquo;re feeling
joy, you&rsquo;re feeling joy. When you&rsquo;re feeling bliss, you&rsquo;re feeling
bliss. And that exudes from you spontaneously, and that&rsquo;s your
extension. But not an extension of anything you privately, personally
originated.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This requires God&rsquo;s endowment of the Son with free will, because all
loving creation is freely given in one continuous line, in which all
aspects are of the same order.
</div>

And what is that order? It&rsquo;s the Order of God, you might say.
It&rsquo;s the Order of the Originator of the Extension, which is God.

And as it illuminates and exudes from every Aspect of What God Is, every
Aspect is apparently extending, making the same Gift. And the Gift is
Love. And so, this Extension of Love, that you could say goes on and on
and on infinitely, expresses the Order, the Character, the Nature, you
might say the Scent or Aroma of the Love That God Is. And this Nature
and Order and Aroma that finds extension without being altered in any
way, because no part of the Sonship is trying to introduce any private
little bias to it, keeps the Original Intent unaltered. And so every
Aspect of the Creation of God becomes a participant in expressing God.

And the fact is, that&rsquo;s What All Of You Are at this every instant, even
though you&rsquo;re momentarily preoccupied with personal needs, and personal
crises, and personal concerns, etc.

Well, the ego says, &ldquo;Huh. Some free will that is! God has endowed you
with free will to do nothing but reflect Him? [small laugh] Don&rsquo;t be
fooled. That&rsquo;s not free will. But He did give you free will. You really
do have the capacity to think and be, independently from What God Is.&rdquo;
But the fact is that you didn&rsquo;t originate yourself, and because of
that, you never have authority over what you&rsquo;re going to be in Reality.

And so the only choice you have is to either be the Reflection of God,
or, to imagine, to indulge in a fantasy that you have some capacity to
be independent. And all that amounts to is that you force yourself to
become unconscious of your Function.

So, at the bottom line, you only have two choices. You have the choice
to be Conscious of Reality, or, temporarily unconscious of it. That&rsquo;s
the ultimate of your exercise of free will&ndash;to embrace or resist the
Movement of God. To allow it to consume you and be you, so that you
might involuntarily illuminate everyone and everything in your presence
with the experience of bliss, or, block it and share with everyone your
resistance to it.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I&rsquo;d like to ask for a little clarification. I think it&rsquo;s pretty easy for
all of us to understand that we did not create ourselves. It&rsquo;s
afterwards that things get a little bit foggy. Because we each have our
lives and the circumstances in our lives and the decisions we&rsquo;ve made
along the path that have led us to the point where we are where we think
we are.
</div>

All of which is fantasy.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And from the perspective of the fantasy, it appears as if we did create
the situation, that we did create the place we find ourselves in this
point in our existence. A doctor isn&rsquo;t in medical practice because he
didn&rsquo;t choose to go to school. He did choose to go to school and become
a doctor, and looks at himself as the author of his decision to be where
he finds himself in this life.
</div>

Exactly. But once again, he couldn&rsquo;t succeed in that if there were not
others willing to join in the that mutually-agreed-upon definition of
status and office. The fact is that there are many people who do not
extend respect to physicians at all, because they do not see the medical
practice as wholistic, as natural, and so they don&rsquo;t join in the
mutually-agreed-upon definition. And therefore, the physician does not
have the position he thinks he&rsquo;s gained with that part of society.

You see what I&rsquo;m saying?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yes. But it works for all of us, whether it&rsquo;s something that appears
lofty in our society such as a physician, or whether just a housewife
who has the nice home she wants and all the accoutrements so it looks
good for a party, or &hellip;
</div>

This is true.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
&hellip; the guy who&rsquo;s a clown bending balloons. It&rsquo;s all
the same.
</div>

Again, she must have friends in society that have joined in mutual
agreement as to those status symbols. It still doesn&rsquo;t make it Real. It
still just makes it, let&rsquo;s say, &ldquo;a group insanity.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So then we are creators of our insane fantasy? So we&rsquo;re successful in
that aspect then?
</div> 

You are successful to the degree that you and someone else, or you and
many someone elses, have made commitment to the validation of those
definitions. But that can&rsquo;t be counted as any kind of real success
because the conclusion isn&rsquo;t valid. It&rsquo;s just a mutually-agreed-upon
consensus opinion.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So even in the positions we find ourselves, we did not create for
ourselves the circumstances to put us in these positions? Or these
positions just simply don&rsquo;t exist, so it&rsquo;s fantasy on top of fantasy?
</div>

You created them. But if you haven&rsquo;t created Something That Is Real, you
haven&rsquo;t created anything. If you haven&rsquo;t created anything, you haven&rsquo;t
created anything. And therefore, you haven&rsquo;t been a creator. But that&rsquo;s
the difficult part for the ego. That&rsquo;s the difficult part in the process
of awakening, because it requires a recognition that what you thought
you had created, you didn&rsquo;t succeed in creating. And then abandoning
that sense of authorship, and then asking in so many words, &ldquo;What the
hell is really going on?&rdquo; And becoming inquisitive. So, don&rsquo;t get hung
up on, &ldquo;Well, we must have really created an illusion. We were creative
in some way.&rdquo; Because if nothing actually was created, then the sense of
being a creator is false.

And Sanity is part of the realization that one&rsquo;s status as a housewife
in a beautiful home, or a physician doing miraculous things, can only
seem to be a valid perception if there are enough people believing it.
And that doesn&rsquo;t make it Real.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
We&rsquo;ve also read here that when we&rsquo;re healed, it says, &ldquo;The Son&rsquo;s
creations &hellip;&rdquo; Let me back up. &ldquo;This is as true of the Son as of the
Father. In this sense the creation includes both the creation of the Son
by God, and the Son&rsquo;s creations when his mind is healed.&rdquo;
</div> 

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So when our minds are healed, we then can create. Is this what I&rsquo;m &hellip;
</div>

No. I did address that. When your minds are healed, then your Experience
of God&rsquo;s Extension As You, illuminates you, fills you up, and it shows
all over you&ndash;not by conscious choice, not by an individual authorization
coming from you&ndash;but because it overflowed you. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I see. So this would be like a spontaneous feeling of love, or
happiness, or joy, or bliss, or revelation, or something of this nature.
It&rsquo;s not like inventing a chair, or a &hellip;
</div>

Or being in a part of Infinity where God was moving, you might say, and
God moving looked like you moving a mountain, or picking up a chair and
relocating it, and being an integral, inseparable part of the Glory of
the Movement of God.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And what about something like invention? Like Edison inventing a light
bulb, or something like that? Something that the world had never seen
before. Is that &hellip; you know, needless to say, we would say,
&ldquo;Well, that&rsquo;s creation.&rdquo; He created something that
wasn&rsquo;t ever, you know&hellip;
</div>

But you see that is a process of becoming more complete and moving out
of a state of less completeness. The invention of the light bulb brought
light where it hadn&rsquo;t been before. It brought light where there
was darkness, you might say. But in the Infinite Presence of What God Is
Being, there is no lack and so the Movement of Creation is not a means
of filling a void. It&rsquo;s not improvement. It&rsquo;s not forward
movement. It&rsquo;s more like the hymn goes, &ldquo;from glory unto
glory.&rdquo; And that&rsquo;s about the best I can put it into words at
the moment.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So if there were no separation, there would be no need for light bulbs?
</div>

That is correct.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay.
</div>

In moments of illumination, an experience that awaits you is for a
darkened room to be illuminated by the Light of You, literally the Body
of Light that you are, and the Light that is the Substance of everything
in the room. You right here in this quote &ldquo;incarnation&rdquo;
unquote without having ascended. The Energy that you see as the form of
your body is pure Light, even though you can&rsquo;t see it at the
moment. I can see it.  This room is illuminated far more brightly than
the lights display at the moment, just from the Light of You. Right now
it&rsquo;s shining. It isn&rsquo;t out. You haven&rsquo;t snuffed it,
even though you are not seeing it. That&rsquo;s the more of you
that&rsquo;s right here now to be experienced if you&rsquo;ll be
curious. It&rsquo;s happening right now.

But you all have a nice little mutually-agreed definition of yourselves
that is that you&rsquo;re just, you know, human beings doing the best
you can, struggling along, and trying to refine your souls and
spiritualize yourselves.

And you&rsquo;re managing to be pretty far out. I mean you&rsquo;re
talking with Jesus. And this is excellent because to whatever degree you
let yourself be far out and yet still remain grounded, you make it
possible to let go even more, and have experiences of Light
illumination.

And when you pray, when you ask the Father to show you something, ask
Him to show you a lot. Don&rsquo;t ask for just a little bit. Ask Him to
reveal the maximum that you can bear. Ask Him to reveal the last thing
in the world you would expect to experience.

Okay. Microphone.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
The invention of the light bulb, or sailing ships, or coats, aren&rsquo;t
those all gifts from Awakened Beings through our consciousness? Aren&rsquo;t
those Expressions of Love?
</div>

They are fuller experiences of your Wholeness, fuller experiences of
your Birthright of Freedom, fuller experiences of your right to comfort.
They are not so much gifts, as they are the little bit more of good that
you were willing to be undefended against; a little bit more right to
dignity and comfort than you had mutually agreed upon before.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
They&rsquo;re coming from outside of the agreed definitions though.
</div>

Of course.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
They&rsquo;re coming from Wholeness. They&rsquo;re coming from &hellip;
</div>

They are coming from the Father&rsquo;s good pleasure to give you All Of
What He Is. And they come through the sieve of your current
mutually-agreed-upon definitions. It&rsquo;s like you&rsquo;re in a dark
room, and there&rsquo;s a door in the room, and outside the room is the
world and the sunlight, but the door fits the jamb perfectly, and
there&rsquo;s no light bulb in the room, and so the room is totally
dark. And then there&rsquo;s an earth tremor, and the room shifts, and
this little crack of light across the bottom of the door comes through.
And you get down and you look at it, and you stand in awe of it.
&ldquo;Wow! This must be a gift from beyond.  I&rsquo;ve never seen
anything like it before. It&rsquo;s an incredible experience!&rdquo; But
it&rsquo;s just a little bit of the Totality of the World and all of the
Light that extends infinitely that&rsquo;s outside the door.

No one said, &ldquo;Let&rsquo;s give them a little bit of Light.&rdquo; The Light was
being gifted in its entirety all along. You see? So it&rsquo;s always just as
much of your good as you&rsquo;re willing to let in. And so coats and sailing
ships and light bulbs seemed to develop, so that lighter coats kept you
as warm as the heavy ones, and better means of stitching them together
made them last longer, and so on. It&rsquo;s just a matter of your letting in
more of what you felt you deserved than you did before.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So more of The Way Things Are, versus, angels whispering in our ears?
</div>

Yes. And remember this. I haven&rsquo;t just talked about, let&rsquo;s say,
technological improvements, or improvements in fabrics that could be
used in the coat, or, let us say, the development of automobiles and
airplanes that made ships obsolete as means of transporting you from one
place to another. I haven&rsquo;t talked just about the form, because the form
isn&rsquo;t really where the movement is.

The movement is in your increasing experience of your Integrity, of your
Birthright. That&rsquo;s where the movement is. That&rsquo;s where the quote
&ldquo;development&rdquo; is. That&rsquo;s where the growth is. It isn&rsquo;t in the
inventions. The inventions always have accompanied, let us say, your
belief that you didn&rsquo;t always have to be in the dark, or your clearer
understanding that you didn&rsquo;t always have to be in the dark, and your
clearer understanding that you didn&rsquo;t have to be limited to the
transmission of a message that takes three months to get where it&rsquo;s
going and another three months to bring an answer back to you.

So what all of the inventions and all of the developments of objects
are, are just representations of the amount of your Birthright that you
have been willing to embrace. That&rsquo;s where it&rsquo;s happening. That is the
happening.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I like that.
</div>

That&rsquo;s a practical response.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yeah.
</div>

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Garden of Eden, or the pre-separation condition, was a state of mind
in which nothing was needed. When Adam listened to the &ldquo;lies of the
serpent,&rdquo; all he heard was untruth. You do not have to continue to
believe what is not true unless you choose to do so.
</div>

Now that&rsquo;s a very significant statement.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When Adam listened to the &ldquo;lies of the serpent,&rdquo; all he heard was
untruth.
</div>

He was not tempted. He recognized it for what it was&ndash;a lie. So he
didn&rsquo;t become subject to the illusion that would have followed if
he thought he was hearing truth and accepted it and joined.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
All that can literally disappear in the twinkling of an eye because it
is merely a misperception.
</div>

Let&rsquo;s&hellip; I want to emphasize another word here.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You do not have to continue to believe what is not true unless you
choose to do so. All that can literally disappear in the twinkling of an
eye because it is merely a misperception.
</div>

Meaning all that which isn&rsquo;t True that you had been believing, can
disappear in the twinkling of an eye because it is merely a
misperception. It&rsquo;s not an actuality.

Someone the other day said that they were experiencing a fever&ndash;Amena&ndash;and
that she thought that her body was in a process of casting off something
unnecessary to it. Well, she&rsquo;s caught in a mutually-agreed-upon
definition about body and how it functions, and doesn&rsquo;t realize that if
she envisions a process by which a certain thing is being accomplished,
that she will be stuck with the fever until that time period has passed
and what needed to be accomplished could be accomplished, and that the
process would move forward on the basis of the manner in which matter
operates. It left her with no capacity to be receptive to an
instantaneous healing, because she saw a physical process occurring.
When the fact is that there&rsquo;s not one single physical thing there where
she sees body. It&rsquo;s just the Visibility and Tangibility of her
Individuality, which is Mind. It&rsquo;s her Individuality rendered
perceptible. But what is perceptible about it, is still of the same
Nature and Character as that which it is identifying, which is pure
Mind. And not only that. It&rsquo;s incapable of harboring anything that it
would need to go through a process to release.

Therefore, the existence of the fever and the thing that need[s] to be
released, that this so-called body is going through a process of
releasing, is all a fantasy. And if she realizes that it is a fantasy,
then in the twinkling of an eye, it can literally disappear because it&rsquo;s
merely a misperception. You see?

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What is seen in dreams seems to be very real. Yet the Bible says that a
deep sleep fell upon Adam, and nowhere is there reference to his waking
up.
</div>

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What is seen in dreams seems to be very real.
</div>

Well, all there are to dreams are limited embraces of the Totality of
Reality. Important point. Dreams are not an experience of something
different from Reality. Dreams are just highly-focused, limited
perceptions of the Totality which is Reality. And what is seen in dreams
seems to be very real because you make commitment to only seeing a
little bit at a time. But it&rsquo;s your commitment to the limited
vision that makes it seem real. It&rsquo;s your capacity to be focused
that makes it real.

In other words, you couldn&rsquo;t seem to have an illusion if there
wasn&rsquo;t Something Real engaged in observing it, and lending to it
(the fantasy) &ldquo;reality,&rdquo; you might say&ndash;but I&rsquo;m
putting that word &ldquo;reality&rdquo; in quotes&ndash;by virtue of the
Something Real In You that is capable of bringing focused, committed
attention to what you choose to give your attention to. So you make the
illusion seem real by virtue of bringing your Very Real Divine Capacity
to bear upon focusing your attention on a very limited part of Reality
and holding it there, and believing that the limitation is real.

You get it?

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So Adam listened to the lies of the serpent, and in the face of Reality
he didn&rsquo;t believe it because it was obvious that it was all lies. I
presume also that Eve listened to the lies of the serpent and was
equally un-persuaded because in the face of Reality the lies are
apparent.
</div>

No, this is not correct.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
No. [mild audience amusement]
</div>

She did see truth in it, but even so, it did not create an illusion. She
then &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
It was when they shared.
</div>

&hellip; sidled up to Adam; said, &ldquo;Honey, would you consider, just
consider looking at it this way?&rdquo; [mild audience amusement] And he
said, &ldquo;Oh, well, what can it hurt?&rdquo; And then there were two
joined in the bias, in the fantasy.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And that&rsquo;s the deep sleep that Adam fell into?
</div> 

Yes. And Eve.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
[without mic] And they&rsquo;re Awake now. [mild audience amusement]
</div> 

Someone said, &ldquo;And they&rsquo;re Awake now.&rdquo; It&rsquo;s
irrelevant. I&rsquo;m not going to go into that at the moment.

Okay, let us continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The world has not yet experienced any comprehensive reawakening or
rebirth. Such a rebirth is impossible as long as you continue to project
or miscreate.
</div>

Okay. So we&rsquo;ve come to a point here where, without much emphasis,
you&rsquo;ve been given a clue as to how to break the dream. As long as
you continue to project, or miscreate, such a rebirth is impossible. But
as soon as you stop projecting and miscreating, such a rebirth is not
only possible, but inevitable.

Now you know what? That could really please your ego. But it is your
Soul that responds with joy at hearing that, because you are being
reminded at a deep level what your Function is. And the experience of
that feels good. And I want you not to confuse it for an ego response.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It still remains within you, however, to extend as God extended His
Spirit to you.
</div>

Your Function has never been lost to you. It has not shriveled up and
blown away. You have not lost the capacity. Each one of you is still
fully functional as God created you. You are as fully functional as God
Is Being you in this moment. You should stop using the word &ldquo;created.&rdquo;
God did not create you some time in the past. God Is Being you in this
instant. &ldquo;Behold I make all things new.&rdquo; It still remains within you to
extend as God extended His Spirit to you.

Now here&rsquo;s the zinger again about the free will.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In reality this is your only choice, because your free will was given
you for your joy in creating the perfect.
</div>

By letting God be All There Is To You so that right where you are, God
is finding expression; not a puny, little personality called Fred, or
John, or Mary, or whatever. You see?

Wow! And this is where we will break for tonight. I have enjoyed being
with you.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Thank you.
</div>

And you&rsquo;re probably going to get tired of hearing this. I
haven&rsquo;t said it a lot but as time goes on, I will be reminding
you. Paul is not the special medium through which you can hear me.
Whether you&rsquo;re here in this room, or whether you&rsquo;re
listening from places around the globe on the Internet, I am inseparable
from each one of you, just as you are inseparable from All of Us Who Are
Awake. So don&rsquo;t walk out of here anxious to come back next week to
hear more from me. Walk out of here curious to see if I have anything to
say to you on the way home. So that maybe next Thursday you&rsquo;re
going to be so busy listening to me at home that you won&rsquo;t have
time to come to the Gathering. Got it?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Got it. Yes.
</div>

Nevertheless I will enjoy communing with you here, or, at home. Okay.
Good night.

[^1]: ACIM 2nd Edition: T1.VII Distortions of Miracle Impulses
[^2]: Students commenting or asking a question.

