---
title: Oct 31, 2002
ref: T2.I The Origins of Separation
---

Good evening. I am aware that since the last Gathering some of you have
had fun, oh, let us say, considering the shortcomings of women, if
indeed Eve is their role model. And by the same token, jabs have been
pointed at men for their gullibility.

But before we go on, I want to back up for perspective. In the Bible,
there are three accounts of creation. One in The New Testament and two
in The Old Testament.

The one in The New Testament is the simplest, the most straightforward,
the one that is so simple that it bypasses everyone&rsquo;s grasp of the
totality of its meaning. It says, &ldquo;In the beginning was the Word, and
the Word was with God, and the Word was God.&rdquo; [^1]

In the first chapter of Genesis, that very simple rendition of creation
is fleshed out wherein it says, &ldquo;And God said, &lsquo;Let there be
light.&rsquo;&rdquo; Let there be this. Let there be that. Let there be
plants. And let there be cattle. And let there be whales. And so on. And
then God charged all of what He created to be fruitful and multiply. And
then it says that on the seventh day&ndash;because in order to flesh it
out a structure had to be provided, a storyline, you might say, even
though creation could not have taken time to occur&ndash;and on the
seventh day God rested. There was completion. And then it says,
&ldquo;And God saw everything that He had made, and behold it was very
good.&rdquo; Which really means &ldquo;and it was VERY GOOD.&rdquo; And
I have said before that a clearer understanding of that statement can be
found in these words, &ldquo;And God saw everything that He had made,
and behold it was verily (or really) God.&rdquo;

So, in the beginning was the Word. And God said, &ldquo;Let there be.&rdquo; And the
Word was with God. And God saw everything that He had made. And the Word
was God. And behold it was verily God. Creation is finished. Creation is
complete. And creation is the Movement of the Mind of God which God sees
and recognizes Himself in. It is all about God, from first to last. It
is all God.

 So, where is this Adam and Eve? Well, in the second chapter of Genesis
 it says, &ldquo;But there went up a mist from the ground.&rdquo; Well, let me ask
 you this. If you are at a movie and you see the image on the screen
 begin to waver and shift and become mystified and unclear, and then
 resolve itself in a new scene, you naturally assume that you have
 shifted into a different reality. It is easy to assume that. And I
 encourage you to assume that, when you read after creation has been
 completed, &ldquo;and a mist went up from the ground.&rdquo;

And then there is a key sentence. It says, &ldquo;And there was no man to till
the ground.&rdquo; Well, you know what? The way it&rsquo;s written sounds like the
lead in to what follows, but it&rsquo;s really the conclusion to what has
already been written. Creation does not include a man to till the
ground. It does not include a man to make his mark in the world. It does
not include a man to exert authority and change creation. It does not
include a man to give definition to everything, because God has already
defined it completely, and charged it to be fruitful and multiply, to
flourish.

So, according to this second creation, God creates man from the earth
and breathes into it life. And then, He causes a deep sleep to occur,
because Adam is lonely and needs a helpmate. Ah! Is this beginning to
sound familiar? Because we&rsquo;re beginning to describe the realm of
mutually-agreed-upon definitions. And without a helpmate, how can there
be a mutually-agreed-upon definition, right? And so, He takes a rib out
of Adam&rsquo;s chest and from that makes woman.

And the rest is history, literally, because history is a record of time
that in Eternity is an illusion. And everything that follows from there
on throughout the Bible is a record of illusion. It is all based upon
the trials and tribulations of being a man, or a woman, to till the soil
and to suffer through and survive the quote &ldquo;human condition.&rdquo;

The moment that mist arose in the story, everything became an example of
life, of creation, being experienced through a glass darkly, through the
distortion of mutually-agreed-upon definitions, and a, I&rsquo;m going to say,
a conscious ignorance&ndash;ignoring of Reality that doesn&rsquo;t require a man to
till the soil, that doesn&rsquo;t require a woman to slave and sweat over a
stove and labor. So, be careful when you have fun at the expense of
women, or when you have fun at the expense of men, because there ain&rsquo;t
no such creatures.

You see, you might have been tempted to believe that &ldquo;The Fall&rdquo; occurred
after Eve tempted Adam, that the illusion began after Eve tempted Adam
and he agreed to join her. But the illusion started where the mist rose
from the ground. And it&rsquo;s an important thing to understand.

If you don&rsquo;t understand it, you can buy into the idea that you are all
descendants, one way or another, of Adam and Eve, since they are the
first ones capable of being parents. And even if you hadn&rsquo;t thought of
it that way, in the more immediate present, you do see yourselves as
descendants of your parents, who are descendants of their parents, who
are descendants of their parents, and then you don&rsquo;t usually think much
further back than that. But you can&rsquo;t be the descendants of your parents
because you are the Direct Expression of God. And you embody All That
God Is&ndash;Mind experiencing Itself and recognizing Itself in the
experience. This is very key and I didn&rsquo;t want to let it escape your
attention.

You see, waking up isn&rsquo;t about getting back into the Garden of Eden.
It&rsquo;s about getting back before the Garden of Eden, before the mist arose
from the ground, before the whole story of an existence separate from
God began, or seemed to begin.

Before we start reading, I want to mention something that we discussed
earlier: that you have no private thoughts. It&rsquo;s relatively easy to
engage in the uncomplimentary assessment of women as beguilers,
temptresses. In fact, if you&rsquo;re a man, you can make a point of looking
for the best temptress you can find. But what I want to point out to you
is that because none of you have any private thoughts, because you truly
aren&rsquo;t separate from anything, every thought you have is beguiling.
Every thought you have is tempting. I prefer using the word &ldquo;tempting&rdquo;
now.

Every thought you have is an invitation that goes out from you like a
messenger looking for that which confirms it. It invites a joining in
agreement&ndash;every single thought&ndash;whether it&rsquo;s a hateful thought, whether
it&rsquo;s a loving thought, whether it&rsquo;s a thought that finds its basis in
the version of creation found in the second chapter of Genesis, or
whether it&rsquo;s a thought that finds its basis in the first chapter.

And so everyone who is thinking is engaging in beguiling, or, is
engaging in making an invitation to acknowledge the Truth. Your thoughts
are either seductive, or they are illuminative. Either they seduce
another, or they promote the illumination of another. I&rsquo;m not saying
this to convict anyone of anything, but to point out something that
happens unconsciously if you&rsquo;re not aware that you&rsquo;re not the offspring
of Adam and Eve; if you&rsquo;re not aware that no such form of creation ever
took place at the Hand of God.

No matter what great religious books you read, you will find attempts to
account for existence. And so you will find a creation story. The
clearest account of creation is in these words, &ldquo;In the beginning was
the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God.&rdquo; So, that
means the Word wasn&rsquo;t you. And that means that you are the Word That Is
God. It means that you are God in action, in presence, in being, right
now. And that&rsquo;s what waking up is the discovery of.

Now we will go to the book. We have a question.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I noticed in the two creations that the name of the deity changes. First
creation, like an older name for God&ndash;Elohim, or the wind, or
something like that. And the second creation where Adam and the mist is
happening is called the Lord God, more of a Yahweh kind of a guy. Is
that, is my perception correct on that?[^2]
</div>

That is correct. Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Is there a significance to that?
</div>

Only that it represents the fact that there&rsquo;s a different source
for each of the creations.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
The first one is an older story.
</div>

The first one is the truest story. It doesn&rsquo;t have anything to do
with time.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Thank you.
</div> 

You are welcome.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
All fear is ultimately reducible to the basic misperception that you
have the ability to usurp the power of God. Of course, you neither can
nor have been able to do this.[^3]
</div>

In other words, whatever everyone thinks happened after the mist arose
from the ground did not change creation as it is represented in the
first chapter. What you think you have done has never happened. It&rsquo;s as
simple as that.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Here is the real basis for your escape from fear.
</div>

Ah. Why? Because it means that you cannot possibly be in the frame of
mind, the mutually-agreed-upon joint frame of mind wherein
mutually-agreed-upon definitions have occurred and seemed to have caused
a different experience of Reality than What It Really Is.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The escape is brought about by your acceptance of the Atonement, which
enables you to realize that your errors never really occurred.
</div>

You see? Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Only after the deep sleep fell upon Adam could he experience nightmares.
If a light is suddenly turned on while someone is dreaming a fearful
dream, he may initially interpret the light itself as part of his dream
and be afraid of it. However, when he awakens, the light is correctly
perceived as the release from the dream, which is then no longer
accorded reality.
</div>

Now this uses an example of light as opposed to darkness when you do
your dreaming. But what I want to point out to you is that, again, [taps
table] the glass-topped table, the carpet, your fingernails&ndash;these are
all Reality seen through a glass darkly, and therefore can be
misinterpreted. But because What They Truly Are has never stopped being
the Presence and Expression of God, they serve just as much as light as
that which can trigger your awaking up from the dream, and thus seeing
them As They Truly Are.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This release does not depend on illusions. The knowledge that
illuminates not only sets you free, but also shows you clearly that you
are free.
</div>

And that you always have been. And in the discovery that you always have
been, there is absolutely no occasion for entertaining guilt for all
this time that you seemed to have wasted in an illusion, because the
Clarity of being Awake shows you that you never were in a dream. And
because you never were in a dream, and because you always were present
in Reality as Who You Really Are, the memory of who you in your Right
Mind were being all along is returned to you, even though you weren&rsquo;t
paying any attention to it for all that time because you were
preoccupied and committed to your definition of everything.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Whatever lies you may believe are of no concern to the miracle, which
can heal any of them with equal ease.
</div>

So whatever lies you believe can&rsquo;t actually, can&rsquo;t actually
block you from waking up; can&rsquo;t actually cause you to be
undeserving of Knowing and Experiencing the Truth. And therefore, it
can&rsquo;t hold off your realization of the Truth in any way.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It makes no distinctions among misperceptions.
</div>

Miracles do not. Indeed. Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Its sole concern is to distinguish between truth on the one hand, and
error on the other. Some miracles may seem to be of greater magnitude
than others. But remember the first principle in this course; there is
no order of difficulty in miracles.
</div>

And there is no order of magnitude of illusions. A mistake is a mistake.
A misperception is a misperception. That&rsquo;s all.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In reality you are perfectly unaffected by all expressions of lack of
love. These can be from yourself and others, from yourself to others, or
from others to you. Peace is an attribute in you. You cannot find it
outside. Illness is some form of external searching. Health is inner
peace.
</div>

Yes. Inner peace is what you experience when you stop sending out
messengers of fear; when you stop sending out messengers of hate; when
you stop sending out messengers of jealousy; when you stop sending out
messages of arrogance.

And when you choose to become still and you experience your peace, as
I&rsquo;ve said before, you find yourself beginning to be filled with the
experience of being loved, and the result is Joy. And now you&rsquo;re engaged
in sending out messengers of Joy which will return to you with
confirmation of that which is joyous.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It enables you to remain unshaken by lack of love from without and
capable, through your acceptance of miracles, of correcting the
conditions proceeding from lack of love in others.
</div>

Indeed. When another sends out a messenger of hate, or fear, to you, and
finds you non-responsive because you&rsquo;ve chosen to be in your peace where
you find joy, it does not bring back confirmation of what it is looking
for from you. But your expression of joy right in the face of that, your
experience of joy that is sending out messengers of joy, has the
opportunity to find a joyful response in the one who had been sending
out a messenger of hate or fear. And your messenger of joy is an active
agent for change, because it has its origin in the Movement of God
Himself that you have let in.

Messengers of fear are not agents of change. You might say that they are
agents of paralysis, agents of immobilization; but not agents of, not
initiators of action, of response. The messengers of fear simply block,
simply immobilize. This is why the messengers for fear have no power.

Okay, let&rsquo;s continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Atonement as Defense

You can do anything I ask. I have asked you to perform miracles, and
have made it clear that miracles are natural, corrective, healing and
universal.
</div>

Ah. And miracles are sudden shifts of perception that happen when
you&rsquo;re not being &ldquo;man who tills the soil;&rdquo; &ldquo;man
who makes his mark on the world.&rdquo; Miracles happen when you let
yourself be the place where God shines through, when you let God be All
There Is right where you are.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is nothing they cannot do, but they cannot be performed in the
spirit of doubt or fear. When you are afraid of anything, you are
acknowledging its power to hurt you. Remember that where your heart is,
there is your treasure also. You believe in what you value. If you are
afraid, you will inevitably value wrongly, and by endowing all thoughts
with equal power will inevitably destroy peace.
</div>

Now because of the difference in the second edition, I&rsquo;m going to read
that so that everyone has it both ways.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you are afraid, you are valuing wrongly. Your understanding will then
inevitably value wrongly, and by endowing all thoughts with equal power
will inevitably destroy peace.
</div>

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
That is why the Bible speaks of &ldquo;the peace of God which passeth
understanding.&rdquo;
</div>

Indeed. Understanding comes from thinking and the use of reason and
logic. And that&rsquo;s why I make a distinction between the word,
&ldquo;understanding&rdquo; and &ldquo;knowing.&rdquo; Knowing is
understanding that has come from experience without a single thought
occurring. When any of you has felt God&rsquo;s Love, you were in a
position of never doubting the existence of God again; not because you
could reason it; not because you could explain it; but because the
experience was an undeniable Knowing. You could call it an
understanding, because it is a Knowing so deep. But it is not something
that has arisen out of thinking, or logic, or reason.

It isn&rsquo;t understanding any of you want. It&rsquo;s the Experience
of Knowing, because Knowing is undeniable and it cannot be argued away.
But what logic and reason have created can be argued away through an
even more skillful use of reason and logic, whether there is any truth
to it or not.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This peace is totally incapable of being shaken by errors of any kind.
It denies the ability of anything not of God to affect you.
</div>

Indeed.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is the proper use of denial. It is not used to hide anything, but
to correct error. It brings all error into the light, and since error
and darkness are the same, it corrects error automatically.
</div>

Indeed. In other words, it uncovers misunderstanding. It uncovers
misperception for what it is, which causes it to be seen as completely
valueless. And what you don&rsquo;t find value in, you make no commitment to,
you don&rsquo;t entertain, you don&rsquo;t hold onto.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
True denial is a powerful protective device. You can and should deny any
belief that error can hurt you. This kind of denial is not a concealment
but a correction.
</div>

You see, if someone says something to you, &ldquo;2 plus 2 is 5,&rdquo;
and you know 2 and 2 is 4, you say, &ldquo;That&rsquo;s not true! 2 and
2 equals 5&ndash;that&rsquo;s not true.&rdquo; Stating it is not the
first step of a negotiation, or an argument.  You see? It&rsquo;s just a
statement of the truth. It is a correction.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your right mind depends on it. Denial of error is a strong defense of
truth, but denial of truth results in miscreation, the projections of
the ego.
</div>

It results in miscreation. Once again that simply means a distorted
perception; not a new creation that is false.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Is it true then that in time we may grow weary of that ego behavior?
</div>

Absolutely.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And we may eventually want to be rid of it and want what I hear you
describing to us?
</div>

You&rsquo;re already weary of it which is why you&rsquo;re listening. Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In the service of the right mind the denial of error frees the mind, and
re-establishes the freedom of the will.
</div>

Again, when you are confronted with illusion, when you are confronted
with error, when you are confronted by misperception, and it is
aggressively presented, you need to deny it. Once again though, your
denial of it is not the first step of a contest, or a war, but a clear
acknowledgement that it&rsquo;s not true because truth is such-and-such and
such-and-such that you know. That sends a messenger out looking for
confirmation, and it will find confirmation&ndash;transformational
confirmation.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When the will is really free it cannot miscreate, because it recognizes
only truth.
</div>

Yes. When the will says to God, &ldquo;Thy Will be done,&rdquo; it&rsquo;s really free,
even though the ego sees that as a loss of freedom.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And reacts fearfully. And then if I agree with that, then I&rsquo;ve allowed
myself to be grabbed once again.
</div>

Exactly.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And then, which in turn, can leave me quite weary again. After a while,
it&rsquo;s like insanity. It&rsquo;s like repeating the same mistake
over and over again hoping for a better result.
</div>

It isn&rsquo;t *like* insanity; it *is* insanity. Exactly.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When the will is really free it cannot miscreate, because it recognizes
only truth.
</div>

It recognizes only Truth because that is what it has willed to see by
saying, &ldquo;God, Thy Will be done.&rdquo;

Of course, this involves shifting from the second account of creation in
Genesis 2, back to the first account in Genesis 1. Because when you say,
&ldquo;Thy Will, not mine, be done,&rdquo; you&rsquo;re saying, &ldquo;I
choose not to be &lsquo;man to till the soil.&rsquo; I choose not to
identify myself that way. I refuse to identify myself that way because
that is not the truth about me.&rdquo; And so you abandon the authority
that being able to till the soil seems to give to you. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Now that sounds like, I&rsquo;m not saying it is, but it sounds like we
don&rsquo;t (you don&rsquo;t) have to work for a living. You don&rsquo;t
have to till the soil.  You don&rsquo;t have to make your mark in the
world. So you don&rsquo;t have to really &hellip;
</div>

Well, I tell you what. You just try to sit down, and be still, and yield
to the Father&rsquo;s Will, and see if you can remain unmoving. See if you can
avoid breaking into dance, if you will, because of the Joy that fills
you, and the Movement of God, and the Rhythm of God, and the Beat of
God, and the Movement of Creation that is what you&rsquo;re the Presence of,
because God Is Being All There Is of you right now. And just see if you
can keep from doing something.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
But it&rsquo;s not toiling, you know.
</div>

Of course not. It&rsquo;s a natural, effortless Flow of the Movement of
Fulfillment making all things new. It&rsquo;s just that what
you&rsquo;re doing isn&rsquo;t done for your private purposes. And it
isn&rsquo;t done for your gain.  It&rsquo;s a gift.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And it doesn&rsquo;t have to be repetitive, or boring, or any of that.
</div>

It never will be repetitive or boring.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Because I mean this is talked, what you&rsquo;re speaking about is a whole
paradigm shift.
</div>

Yes!

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
But I mean &hellip;
</div>

From &ldquo;Chapter 2&rdquo; to &ldquo;Chapter 1.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Right. It almost sounds like anarchy in a way. I mean it is anarchy in
a way. You&rsquo;re upsetting the whole apple cart of the way things are.
</div> 

You&rsquo;re upsetting the mutually-agreed-upon definitions of how things are,
and returning to How Things Really Are. Absolutely.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Because it&rsquo;s almost like the definition of &ldquo;work&rdquo;
excludes the word &ldquo;fun.&rdquo;
</div>

The definition. Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I mean, if it&rsquo;s fun, it&rsquo;s play. If it&rsquo;s work,
it&rsquo;s no fun. [laughs]
</div>

Indeed. And the greatest works of art are the ones that came out of
Joy; not suffering, as it is proclaimed. The greatest works of art and
the greatest things that have been done were the result of Joy allowed,
embraced, and embodied.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So this is good news. We don&rsquo;t have to work any more. [laughs] Yea!
</div>

You do not have to be in order to survive. That&rsquo;s what work is.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
You mean existing for the sake, the saying, &ldquo;I have to do this in order
to survive.&rdquo;
</div>

Exactly.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I can have fun and survive, too.
</div>

You&rsquo;re damn right.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Alright. Good news.

I just want to talk a little about personal experience, the way this
feels as an experience. I&rsquo;m going along and I&rsquo;m having my
&ldquo;Chapter 2&rdquo; experience. And then I deny, I deny that. And
then I guess what I&rsquo;m feeling is, for a little bit, I&rsquo;m
going into what you could call &ldquo;the void,&rdquo; or, you know,
just sitting there kind of waiting, I guess waiting for the messenger to
get back. But then that fulfillment starts, after a little period of
maybe like just reorienting myself, getting my balance back after
I&rsquo;ve denied all the ruckus. And I sit there and there&rsquo;s
quiet. There&rsquo;s not anything to experience. I might have to
concentrate on my breath, or, you know, make an effort to not go back
into the thinking and the confirming the lie.
</div> 

And the body sensations of fear, and so on.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Exactly. Just paying attention to something that&rsquo;s really going on at a
primal level that&rsquo;s not all loaded with stimulation.
</div>

Significance.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yes. Significance, exactly. Something to&ndash;how did you say it?&ndash;to bring
about a consummate act.
</div>

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And so then I just sit there without anything going on for a little bit
before the messenger gets back. That&rsquo;s what I&rsquo;m experiencing. And I used
to sit there for like a long time waiting for the messenger to get back
&lsquo;cause I wasn&rsquo;t as &hellip;
</div> 

Oh, let&rsquo;s be clear here. When you become still, what you&rsquo;re
doing is making room for God.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Exactly.
</div>

And then there is an infilling that occurs. First is the experience of
peace. And then is the experience of feeling loved. And then an
accompanying Joy. Those influxes of the Presence of God experienced by
you, are themselves the impulse of the messengers that are being sent
out. And they are the messengers that will return to you with
confirmation. Just being in the quietness does not send a messenger out.
You&rsquo;re not in the quietness waiting for a messenger to return. You
are in the quietness waiting upon God, waiting upon the Holy Spirit, to
infill you, because it is their Purpose to uncover to you What Is True
About You, which you can only recognize within yourself when you have
abandoned assertive, authoritative, aggressive thinking. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Aggressively denied it. I mean that&rsquo;s the place I can apply my will;
just a will not to think that thought; to stop the thought.
</div>

To will not to think a thought is an attack on a thought. But to choose
for your peace and disregard the thought, constitutes a withdrawal of
your attention.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I know exactly what you&rsquo;re getting at.
</div> 

And therefore, a denial of it.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Paying attention to my breath, versus, attacking the thought.
</div> 

Indeed. You got it.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I feel like I&rsquo;m in a &ldquo;Chapter 2&rdquo; experience trying to
avoid a Chapter 11.

Are we on, is it number three? [to someone else] Thank you.
</div>

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You can defend truth as well as error. The means are easier to
understand after the value of the goal is firmly established.
</div>

The value of the goal. And what is the value of the goal that would
cause you to defend Truth rather than error? The goal has to be simple.
It has to be Love. And if your goal is to Love, then it is Truth that
you will naturally want to defend, because error is the disturbing
element that undermines the Experience of Love if it is defended and
committed to.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is a question of what it is for. Everyone defends his treasure, and
will do so automatically.
</div>

Yes. Do you treasure harmony? Do you treasure friendship? Or do you
treasure not being wrong? Or do you treasure being right? Do you
treasure that which unifies, or that which separates and seems to
provide the opportunity for being the winner of one-upmanship? You see?

And &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Everyone defends his treasure, and will do so automatically.
</div>

In other words, you don&rsquo;t have to will to do it. If you treasure
something, you automatically defend it. It&rsquo;s wonderful, because the
moment you value Love, the moment you value Truth, you will
automatically defend it. You will spontaneously stand on its behalf,
involuntarily. It&rsquo;s not a struggle. You might say the struggle comes in
changing what you&rsquo;re treasuring.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The real questions are, what do you treasure, and how much do you
treasure it?
</div>

And why do you treasure it? You always treasure it for what it&rsquo;s
going to do for you. You always treasure something for what it&rsquo;s
going to do for you.

So you know what? I would like you to take time this coming week to ask
yourself what Love can do for you. I&rsquo;m not going to ask you to
report back to me next week. But why would you treasure Love? You might
be surprised that you don&rsquo;t have a large number of responses to
the question. But it&rsquo;s worth exploring. It&rsquo;s worth
contemplating. What do you want Love to do for you?

And then take a look at whether or not Love can really do what
you&rsquo;re asking it to do for you, because if it can&rsquo;t, then
what you are asking it to do needs to be abandoned. It&rsquo;s a futile
road. And sometimes as you whittle away the things in you, the
inclination in you to try to obtain something that&rsquo;s not
available&ndash;in other words, to get Love to do something for you that
Love is incapable of doing&ndash;sometimes in the whittling away of
those wasted intents, you seem to come down to only one or two things,
and that can feel rather empty.

But when you come down to one or two or three things, you can recognize
the consistency between them, you can recognize the similarity. And once
you see those similarities, you have the capacity to recognize other
areas where Love can benefit you. And then the answer to the question,
the answers grow in number.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The real questions are, what do you treasure, and how much do you
treasure it?
</div>

And I added, &ldquo;And why?&rdquo; Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Once you have learned to consider these questions and to bring them into
all your actions, you will have little difficulty in clarifying the
means.
</div>

Yes. And part of the reason for the fact that you will have little
difficulty is because of the &hellip; because you will be spontaneously
inviting them into your experience. This is the part that doesn&rsquo;t
take work. The coming forth of the Clarity will happen automatically,
spontaneously, without labor, because it&rsquo;s a &ldquo;Chapter
1&rdquo; Experience.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The means are available whenever you ask. You can, however, save time if
you do not protract this step unduly.
</div> 

Wasn&rsquo;t that a tactful and kind way to say it? Go on &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The correct focus will shorten it immeasurably.
</div>

Indeed. And the correct focus, again, is not on the denial of the thing
you want to get rid of. You deny the thing you want to get rid of by
withdrawing your attention from it. And in doing that, you stop
energizing it in your experience, and it withers for lack of your
attention. You see? As someone once said, &ldquo;It comes to you for life, and
you give it all the life it ever had.&rdquo; So, withdraw your attention from
it. Stop giving it life by neglecting to do something, rather than
fighting off the devil.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Atonement is the only defense that cannot be used destructively
because it is not a device you made.
</div>

And because it&rsquo;s not a device you made, it&rsquo;s not a device that is there
to serve your private goals. The things you make are made to serve your
private goals. And your private goals are the goals of one separate from
the Whole. And those goals are always to preserve the separation. You
see? So it&rsquo;s wonderful.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Atonement is the only defense that cannot be used destructively
because it is not a device you made.
</div>

But that means that you have to allow the Atonement to bless you. You
have to allow the Atonement to do its work for its reasons, because
you&rsquo;re choosing to abandon your reasons&ndash;your personal, private reasons.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Atonement principle was in effect long before the Atonement began.
The principle was love and the Atonement was an act of love.
</div>

Aha! An act of love. An act of love.

Now this could almost sound like a &ldquo;Chapter 2&rdquo; thing. You
know, an act of tilling the soil; an act of making your mark on the
world. But the only thing is that an Act of Love is only an Act of Love
if it&rsquo;s a Gift.  Love is never a means of getting. That&rsquo;s
why it can&rsquo;t be misused. A &ldquo;Chapter 2&rdquo; act is an act
of getting. A &ldquo;Chapter 1&rdquo; act is a gift. An unpremeditated
gift without strings. A gift without expectations attached to it. A gift
that is given purely as an extension of oneself, because you no longer
have a goal to do anything other than the Function God gave you by
embodying Himself as Himself right where you are.

Is intercourse an act of love? It is referred to as an act of love.
Well, it might be, and it might not be.

Is drinking a glass of water an act of love? It might be, and it might
not be.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Acts were not necessary before the separation&hellip;
</div>

In &ldquo;Chapter 1 &hellip;&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; because belief in space and time did not exist. It was only after
the separation that the Atonement and the conditions necessary for its
fulfillment were planned. Then a defense so splendid was needed that it
could not be misused, although it could be refused. Refusal could not,
however, turn it into a weapon of attack, which is the inherent
characteristic of other defenses. The Atonement thus becomes the only
defense that is not a two-edged sword. It can only heal.
</div>

Those are incredible words. The Truth is incredible.

So the real question this week in everything you do is, it needs to be,
&ldquo;Am I going to give expression to the Voice for Truth, or the voice for
fear?&rdquo;

If you&rsquo;re going to give expression to the Voice for Truth, you will not
engage in self-defense, because that&rsquo;s not a gift. And it&rsquo;s not Love.
And it sends no messengers out for confirmation of that which causes
your gift to be an agent for change and transformation and healing in
the world.

If you feel inclined to become defended, and thus engage in retaliatory
attack, you will find yourself bound to a &ldquo;Chapter 2&rdquo; experience&ndash;the
struggle of the human condition. And you will be saying that you are
descendants of Adam and Eve, and that such a world as existed after the
mist arose is real, and it&rsquo;s your domain, and it&rsquo;s your environment.

But if you want to break that illusion, you&rsquo;ve got to make the choice
for the Voice for Truth. You&rsquo;ve got to make the choice for Love, which
means becoming undefended, because you can&rsquo;t make a gift from a
standpoint of defense. A defensive hand is a fist, and there&rsquo;s no way to
give away what is inside your hand when it is closed up in a fist. It&rsquo;s
that simple. And there&rsquo;s no way that your hand can be a weapon when it&rsquo;s
extended in an open position. Oh, I realize that it can be used to slap
with, but you understand my point.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Atonement was built into the space-time belief to set a limit on the
need for the belief itself, and ultimately to make learning complete.
The Atonement is the final lesson. Learning itself, like the classrooms
in which it occurs, is temporary. The ability to learn has no value when
change is no longer necessary. The eternally creative have nothing to
learn. You can learn to improve your perceptions, and can become a
better and better learner. This will bring you into closer and closer
accord with the Sonship; but the Sonship itself is a perfect Creation
and perfection is not a matter of degree.
</div>

This is why it is a good idea not to engage in evaluating your skill as
a learner, and not to make commitment to the process of learning.
Learning is unavoidable. But don&rsquo;t make commitment to learning. Be
willing to abandon learning [snap fingers] at any moment. Because to the
degree that you have not locked yourself into a learning process, you
are a prime target for an inspiration, and an insight, and a direct
penetration of your Divinity, because it&rsquo;s in the unguarded moments that
this happens. So don&rsquo;t place too high a value on learning. Place your
value on being receptive, and then to the best of your ability, be
defenseless against the influx of that which you haven&rsquo;t entertained
before, of that which you haven&rsquo;t allowed to be in your presence before.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Only while there is a belief in differences is learning meaningful.
</div>

Indeed. Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Evolution is a process in which you seem to proceed from one degree to
the next.
</div>

Important word not to let escape your attention&ndash;the word &ldquo;seem.&rdquo;
Evolution is a process in which you SEEM to proceed from one degree to
the next.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You correct your previous missteps by stepping forward. This process is
actually incomprehensible in temporal terms, because you return as you
go forward.
</div>

And this is because each step toward Home is an undoing of a step you
took away from Home. And so it is indeed a return.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Atonement is the device by which you can free yourself from the past
as you go ahead. It undoes your past errors, thus making it unnecessary
for you to keep retracing your steps without advancing to your return.
In this sense the Atonement saves time, but like the miracle it serves,
does not abolish it. As long as there is need for Atonement, there is
need for time.
</div>

And as long as there is time, or seems to be time, there is need for the
Atonement. As long as you seem to be able to justify not extending Love,
the call for expressing Love will confront you; the call for returning
to your Function will confront you. As long as you don&rsquo;t get the
message, you will have time to get the message. And once you get the
message, you won&rsquo;t need time to get the message, and time will no longer
be an experience.

Continue. Microphone.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So last week we were talking about light bulbs and sailing ships, and
you clarified that that was us just embracing God&rsquo;s Willingness to give
us the Kingdom through our sieve. And it&rsquo;d be reasonable to look at
evolution as that same process of embracing our Wholeness through our
sieve?
</div>

There is a correspondence there. Yes. And at the bottom line, the
learning in that is, that it is valueless to employ a sieve at all.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
But the Atonement as a completed plan has a unique relationship to time.
Until the Atonement is complete, its various phases will proceed in
time, but the whole Atonement stands at time&rsquo;s end. At that point the
bridge of return has been built.
</div>

Indeed. You see, it&rsquo;s just a matter of a return from a
misperception to a correct perception. It&rsquo;s arriving at a point
where you abandon commitment to the so-called &ldquo;fun&rdquo; of
looking at everything with just a little bit of skew added to it. You
see?

It&rsquo;s like the new frames for glasses that have the memory of their
shape built into them so that when you twist them, they immediately pop
back into their original shape. What You Divinely Are, and which you
can&rsquo;t alter in any way, is the same as this built-in memory in
these frames of the glasses. And so, no matter how much you twist
yourself and contort yourself to look funny or different from yourself,
What You Are is implanted there and when either you get tired from the
effort to hold the contorted position, or you just decide to stop, [snap
fingers] the return to your normal shape, the return to what you never
could stop being, is spontaneous and automatic and effortless. You see?

So the last step is in the plan from the beginning. The shape of those
glasses is in them from the beginning, even before they were twisted.
And when the twist is released, without effort, without work, without
labor, without toil, you will find yourself experiencing Yourself Truly
and Everything Else Truly. It&rsquo;s inevitable. It doesn&rsquo;t take
work. You don&rsquo;t have to refine yourself. It&rsquo;s not an
evolutionary process.

And you will find that the hardest work you ever did, was trying not to
be Who You Are. Becoming Who You Are happens spontaneously when the
effort that you were applying upon yourself to be different simply
ceases; when you stop wanting to be &ldquo;man who tills the soil&rdquo;
and &ldquo;make your mark&rdquo; and have authority. When you abandon
that, &ldquo;Chapter 1&rdquo; comes to view. The simplicity of it. The
wholeness of it. The bliss of it. The purity of it. The Right Mindedness
of it. And the conscious harmony with every Aspect of Creation
Infinitely is yours, is returned to you. And what opens that door, what
promotes the spontaneous shift, is the embrace and embodiment of the
Atonement Principle, which is Love, and embodying it in Acts of Love,
rather than acts of defense.

And on that we will call it a night. Thank you. I enjoy being with you.

[^1]: John 1:1
[^2]: Students commenting or asking a question. 
[^3]: ACIM 2nd Edition: T2.I The Origins of Separation

