---
title: Nov 7, 2002
ref: T2.II The Atonement as Defense
---

Good evening. I welcome all of you, as well as those who are joining us
on the Internet.

And I&rsquo;m going to ask a question. Can anyone think of a way if you&rsquo;re in
a room all by yourself &hellip; let&rsquo;s start over. If you are in a room all
by yourself, can you think of a way to express affection?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I would say just feel it, or believe that it&rsquo;s just a real thing. And
then just go with that. Just have belief in it. Believe that affection
is something that&rsquo;s good and that comes from the Divine Source. And have
trust in that.[^1]
</div>

But how would you express it?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I suppose by feeling it, by &hellip; I would feel affection for myself
being there in that room. I suppose affection for the room itself, or
for whatever I could see.
</div>

Anyone else?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I&rsquo;m finding that I can&rsquo;t feel alone in a room anymore. It&rsquo;s not
something that I feel anymore. I feel like I&rsquo;m always accompanied.
</div>

But the question was, &ldquo;How would you express affection?&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
How can you be in a room alone? [some audience laughter]

[pause] If you express affection in a room that you&rsquo;re experiencing
yourself alone in, you&rsquo;re doing it in your imagination, just like the
experience of being alone in the room.
</div>

So, you are in a room that no one else is in. You are alone in a room,
but you&rsquo;re not alone. How do you express affection?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
With you, a lot of the time.
</div>

That is Love.

How do you express affection?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
How &lsquo;bout since really we are Mind but we&rsquo;re not Awake yet, and we
experience thinking still. And I have a feeling that you&rsquo;re maybe
driving at the fact that not to entertain thoughts about any other that
wouldn&rsquo;t support the highest good about that other, no matter what. No
matter what the temptation might be to think of others, because we&rsquo;re
all experiencing something, you know, in terms of relationships with
each other that sometimes goes smoothly and sometimes don&rsquo;t.

And if you&rsquo;re in a room alone, you&rsquo;re probably somehow experiencing
either thinking, or a meditative state where you&rsquo;re trying not to think.
And in that, thoughts are going to be coming and going, more than
likely. And when they might arise in the form of anything that doesn&rsquo;t
support the best in a Brother or Sister, no matter what you&rsquo;re
experiencing, you know, and so-called &ldquo;illusion,&rdquo; the struggle of life,
you know, the unawakened state, and the temptation to buy into
fear-driven motivation that might, you know, arise out of difficulties
or conflicts that, whether they&rsquo;re yours, or, you know, thoughts coming
from you from another, not to be tempted to believe anything that
wouldn&rsquo;t suggest what would be reminiscent or representational of the
Christ. Because that&rsquo;s what we would want to have being known about our
self. So how could you expect to have that if you weren&rsquo;t willing to
extend that?
</div>

And how would you extend it in a room all by yourself?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yeah. Well, again it &hellip; I&rsquo;m talking about Mind, because I don&rsquo;t know
any other way you mean if you&rsquo;re by yourself. If you are by yourself,
he&rsquo;s saying.

[in the background] It won&rsquo;t work.
</div>

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yes.
</div>

If you are by yourself.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yes.

[in the background] You can&rsquo;t express affection.

Well, I believe in our Mind we hold thoughts, you know. And to exercise
utilizing the Mind, good use of the Mind, you know, proper use of the
Mind, would not be to think and, you know, of another in any way that
did not support the Truth about them. And you&rsquo;ve given us enough
information to know that the Truth about everyone is that they are the
Christ, no matter what it looks like, or no matter what their behavior
might suggest otherwise. So &hellip;

[in the background] It&rsquo;s all a matter if they&rsquo;re in the room or not.

So no matter if they&rsquo;re in the room with you or not, whoever it might be
that you might be having relationships with, you are connected to them,
even though they don&rsquo;t seem to be in the room with you.

So when you say &ldquo;in the room by yourself,&rdquo; Mark is saying that&rsquo;s
impossible, right? But in fact we experience ourselves that way, and we
experience the thing of separation, which is what is the Atonement was
there to heal, which we haven&rsquo;t caught up with yet.
</div>

I will say something that everyone else won&rsquo;t have an understanding of.
But tonight you sound just like Matt. Do you catch the similarity?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Right. So are you meaning that &hellip; yeah, I know what you mean by that.
So, but I&rsquo;m trying to express something, and I think you know what I&rsquo;m
trying to say, Raj. Don&rsquo;t you?
</div>

Oh, I do indeed.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
But you&rsquo;re telling me now that I&rsquo;m not saying it very well [audience
laughter] because of what you just said, you know.
</div>

I will come back to this.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
It sounds like a correction.
</div>

You will understand.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I&rsquo;m willing to be corrected.
</div>

You will understand more in just a moment.

[to someone else] You had your hand up? Wait for the microphone.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay. My first impulse was singing came to mind. [Someone in the
background said, &ldquo;Yes.&rdquo;] And that&rsquo;s all. [laughing] I
don&rsquo;t have any way to analyze it. But that&rsquo;s what came to my
mind was just singing as an expression of affection.
</div>

[to someone else] And did &hellip; you had your hand up?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
That&rsquo;s it. That&rsquo;s simple. I love to be alone in the room, because then I
can express my affection for what I&rsquo;m feeling. I sing. I dance. It&rsquo;s
simple for me. And sometimes it&rsquo;s easier to express affection alone in
that room.
</div>

Well, without any judgment in what I&rsquo;m going to say, I will say, is
there any wonder that Atonement hasn&rsquo;t occurred? [some audience
laughter]

Does anyone remember from last week what the Atonement principle is?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Correction of errors.
</div>

No.

The Atonement principle is Love. And Atonement is an Act of Love&ndash;an ACT.
Not a thought, but an act.

So affection is love acted out, you might say. And there&rsquo;s no way to act
out love when you are in isolation. And there is no way to engage in an
Act of Love in your Mind. In your Mind, you are being Love. Do you see
the difference?

Again, Atonement is meaningless without involvement. One-on-one,
one-to-another, back and forth in acts of affection.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
[in the background] So are you saying that we leave the room?
</div>

Whoops.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
[with the mic now] So you&rsquo;re saying that you should leave the room.

[in the background] Or bring someone in.

Or bring some, or let… yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
</div>

Ah! Indeed. Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Or leave the isolation.
</div>

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Right.
</div>

Open the door and invite someone in, or go out where others are, where
you can engage in acts of affection, where you can engage in an Act of
Love.

There&rsquo;s something that Paul learned early on as part of the
teaching of Christian Science which he continues to use, or remind
himself of, at the beginning of every Gathering, or every conversation,
with Raj. It says this: &ldquo;Thy Will be done.&rdquo;

What follows is an explanation of the meaning of that sentence in the
Lord&rsquo;s Prayer.

&ldquo;Thy Will be done. Let the reign (r-e-i-g-n) of Divine Truth, Life
and Love be established in me and rule out of me all self-will. And may
Thy Word enrich the affections of all mankind and govern them.&rdquo;

So the first part of that statement says it&rsquo;s an invitation that
each one of you can make&ndash;an invitation, you might say, to let the
Atonement principle in.

&ldquo;Let the reign of Divine Truth, Life and Love
&hellip;&rdquo;&ndash;not the ego&rsquo;s sense of truth, life, truth,
and love&ndash;&rdquo; &hellip; be established in me and rule out of me
all self-will.&rdquo;&ndash;all that is the ego.

But in a way that would be selfish only to consider yourself. To make it
whole, the last part needs to be added. &ldquo;And may Thy Word enrich
the affections &hellip;&rdquo;&ndash;of everyone
else&ndash;&rdquo;&hellip; of all mankind and govern them.&rdquo;

So, what we&rsquo;re doing here whenever we gather together is going
through a process of enriching our affections, so that in so doing you
are in a position to bless all mankind.

So, I will keep saying it over and over and over, as long as it takes
for you to really grasp the fact that none of what we&rsquo;re talking
about is a head-trip. It&rsquo;s not intellectual. It&rsquo;s got to be
translated into actions, one-to-another.

Yes, in the privacy of your room, you can be the Presence of Love that
blesses others. But if when you&rsquo;re with others, you haven&rsquo;t
learned how to be the Presence of Love, it won&rsquo;t mean diddly shit.
It&rsquo;s very easy when you&rsquo;re in the privacy of your room, and
you&rsquo;re not confronted with a Brother and whatever his behavior
might be at the moment, to listen for the Voice for Truth within, to
learn What Is True About Your Brother, and hold him or her in that
esteem. But it&rsquo;s when you&rsquo;re face-to-face with your Brother,
or your Sister, that the call for being the Presence of Love in terms of
your behavior comes into play. And that&rsquo;s where the world changes.
You see?

So, let&rsquo;s not get too lofty. Let&rsquo;s not get so lofty and
spiritual and metaphysical and intellectual that we forget where all of
this is at; where it is that the transformation will occur. It&rsquo;s
in the willingness to have your vision transformed right while your
Brother, or Sister, is in your face, so that you can behave expressing
real acts of love, that affection is embodied. And that&rsquo;s where
you see the effect of the miracle.

So, let&rsquo;s start in the book. And we&rsquo;ll start here.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Atonement is a total commitment.[^2]
</div>

Okay. I will put it this way. In it&rsquo;s fulfilled form, it is total
commitment. Your acts of love become uninterruptedly constant.

Continue.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You may still think this is associated with loss, a mistake all the
separated Sons of God make in one way or another. It is hard to believe
a defense that cannot attack is the best defense.
</div>

Now, let&rsquo;s remember that this section that we&rsquo;re reading is
called, &ldquo;The Atonement as Defense.&rdquo; So that&rsquo;s why
we&rsquo;re talking about defense here.

Continue.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is what is meant by &ldquo;the meek shall inherit the earth.&rdquo;
They will literally take it over because of their strength.
</div>

It&rsquo;s sort of like &ldquo;Silly Putty.&rdquo; If you&rsquo;ve ever
had &ldquo;Silly Putty,&rdquo; you can roll it into a ball and then you
can set it on a flat surface, and because it doesn&rsquo;t have much of
the memory of form that I was talking about last week with the glasses
that have frames that the memory of its shape is an integral part of it.
When you twist it [the frames], it comes back into its shape because it
doesn&rsquo;t forget. &ldquo;Silly Putty&rdquo; has no memory. And so
you form it into a ball and you set it there, and you come back the next
day and it&rsquo;s flattened out like a pancake.

&ldquo;The meek will inherit the earth&rdquo; in that way. In their
defenselessness, in their willingness to, I&rsquo;m going to say, employ
the Atonement as the governing principle of their life, they will simply
relax so completely, you might say, that they cover the earth, embracing
it totally.

Continue.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
A two-way defense is inherently weak precisely because it has two edges,
and can be turned against you very unexpectedly. This possibility cannot
be &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; let me interrupt.

Whenever you have two edges, two points of view, it constitutes prime
soil for argument, and disagreement, and attempts to influence. But that
which has no defense whatsoever, can&rsquo;t be attacked and can&rsquo;t see attack.
It can&rsquo;t be harmed.

It&rsquo;s like being the loop side of two pieces of Velcro with all of its
loops cut. It doesn&rsquo;t matter how many other strips come by that are the
hooks, there&rsquo;s no way to engage the loops that have been cut, and
therefore there can&rsquo;t be any tension, there can&rsquo;t be any dissonance
between the two.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This possibility cannot be controlled except by miracles.
</div>

That is the possibility of having two opposing sides that can engage
with each other with some potential for success at manipulation or
control.

Start that sentence over. This possibility.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This possibility cannot be controlled except by miracles.
</div>

The sudden shift of perception that causes you to be able to be the
Presence of Love and see with Love, and therefore act with Love, so that
your behavior is an expression of affection.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The miracle turns the defense of Atonement to your real protection, and
as you become more and more secure you assume your natural talent of
protecting others, knowing yourself as both a brother and a Son.
</div>

So, Atonement is a defense against what? Just think about it for a
moment. [pause]

When you &hellip; I did use the word &ldquo;against.&rdquo; But when you
think of the word &ldquo;defense,&rdquo; you naturally think of it as
defense against something.  But you can stand in defense of Truth. You
can stand in defense of Love.  When the temptation comes for you to
become reactive and angry, or jealous, or hateful, or whatever, you can
stand in defense of Love, and choose for It, and engage with It, and let
It fill you with enriched affection that you are able to express,
instead of becoming the mouthpiece for the ego. You see?

So Atonement stands in defense of What&rsquo;s Real. It does not stand
defended against what is unreal. And because it stands in defense of
What Is Real, it doesn&rsquo;t occasion conflict. If you stand in
defense against what is unreal, you will have conflict.

If your prayer is, &ldquo;Thy Will be done. Let the reign of Divine
Truth, Divine Life, and Divine Love be established in me,&rdquo; what
are you doing?  You are standing in defense of Divine Truth, Life and
Love. And you are standing in defense of your capacity to experience and
honor it, and nothing else.

&ldquo;Let it be established in me.&rdquo; Of course, it&rsquo;s already
established in you, because you&rsquo;re nothing less than God
Expressed, and All That God Is, is already established in you right at
this moment. But you&rsquo;re saying, your prayer is acknowledging that
and saying, &ldquo;Let it be established in me.&rdquo; It&rsquo;s like
let it be established in me to me, so that I&rsquo;m more fully aware of
it than I have been.

Let it be established in me and rule out of me my inclination to use
self-will; my inclination to think; my inclination to reason; my
inclination to become angry; my inclination to interpret everything
according to my present sense of things, regardless of What God Is Being
There. You see?

&ldquo;Let it be established in me and rule out of me all
self-will.&rdquo; Why? So that my affections might be enriched, and
therefore be transformational, rather than my willy-nilly running down
my habitual road of reaction, and willfulness, and the right I think I
have to interpret everything the way I want to interpret it. You see?

So Atonement is not a defense against something. It stands in defense of
Reality. It&rsquo;s a choice each of you has to consciously make and
then act out. You have to let it take form in action, which is
affection. Again, no matter how loving, how truly connected with the
Father you might be so that you are perceiving truly about everything
and everyone, if you cannot engage face-to-face with a Brother with
affection, there is no Atonement.

So, now you know where it&rsquo;s at. And because you do, your
participation in the Atonement will be easier for you, because you
won&rsquo;t sit in a room by yourself being the Presence of Love,
thinking that&rsquo;s all there is to it, and neglecting to bring it
into your actions. Once you begin to bring it into your actions, and
your desire is to act it out more and more consistently, the world is
going to see more evidence of Atonement.

And this book that we&rsquo;re reading and what&rsquo;s in it, has been
around long enough for there to be more evidence of Atonement. I am not
chastising anyone. I&rsquo;m saying that what is needed for
transformation is present, and the means of embodying it&ndash;good
choice of words&ndash;the means of embodying it are present. [walking
around the room to each person] Right there. Right there. Embody. Body.
Body. Two together expressing affection. Embodiment. And I&rsquo;m not
talking about sex. Body. Body.  Embodiment. Body. Body. It&rsquo;s not
an illusion. Love it. Use it. Body.  Affection. Affection. Not a slap,
but a caress. Caring. You know, take the time to touch, to care, to
express thoughtfulness with your bodies.  With your bodies. With your
bodies. Embody it.

Take the time to mean it. It can&rsquo;t be done at a distance. Acts of
Love.  Acts of getting close enough, defenselessly enough, that hearts
can touch, because the goal is for hearts to touch. You see?

The words here don&rsquo;t mean anything until you catch the spirit of
it, of them, and extend them to each other. And where it needs to be
expressed and embodied most is where a hatred seems to be active,
whether it&rsquo;s a brand-new hatred, or an ancient hatred. And like I
pointed out last week, an ancient hatred is a current ignorance clothed
in the idea that it&rsquo;s ancient. [laughs]

You&rsquo;re all watching, everyone on the globe is watching aggressive
sparring going on&ndash;the embodiments of ancient hatreds by a
brand-new people. There&rsquo;s nothing ancient about it, except that
the current generation has been told by the one just behind it, how they
should currently think. And they have justified the current thinking on
what the generation before thought, and the generation before thought,
and the generation before thought. And yet, what&rsquo;s being embodied
in the world today is nothing less than a brand-new generation, and one
that&rsquo;s just behind it, and maybe a few left over from the one just
behind that, acting out a current willfulness; not a current love.

&ldquo;I hate your guts because your great, great, great, great, great
grandfather did something horrible to my great, great, great, great,
great grandfather. And I won&rsquo;t forgive you for what he did.&rdquo;
So we have an obvious circumstance where enrichment of affection is
called for.

Now if you don&rsquo;t like what you see going on in the world, then
stop doing it in your individual experience, because that, you can do
something about. And the acts of affection that you engage in will
become the leaven that leavens the whole lump.

Again, affection is an act of love. An act of love is an embodiment of
Love. And you will have to use your bodies, and not just your mind. Let
your bodies become the brush that paints loveliness upon your
relationships. Let your bodies be the brushes that paint healing in your
relationships. And remember that if your bodies are not being used, you
will not have the concrete evidence of Atonement, no matter how
blissed-out you are all alone in your room being &ldquo;the presence of
love.&rdquo;

Do you know that I love you, all of you? And so I talk straight with you
so that you won&rsquo;t suffer from confusion, and won&rsquo;t think
you&rsquo;re doing everything that needs to be done when you&rsquo;re
only doing half of what needs to be done.

Was there a hand?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Are you talking like Mother Theresa? Or more sublime than that? Or more
sublime working towards like Mother Theresa?
</div>

I&rsquo;m not sure how much more sublime one can get than Mother Theresa.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So we should make that as our goal?
</div>

No. That&rsquo;s a concept. So if you&rsquo;re going to make that your
goal, then you&rsquo;re probably going to have to find as many videos of
Mother Theresa as you can, because you can&rsquo;t go and observer her
directly and see what it was that she did, and how did it look, and so
that you can maybe get a feeling for what it was she was about.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Well, I mean the full immersion of herself into her world&ndash;caring
for the sick, caring for the down-trodden, almost &hellip; well, to what
we rate as a very high degree, which is why we hold her in high esteem
and high regard.
</div> 

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I guess that goes back to the first sentence: The Atonement is total
commitment.
</div>

Yes. Total commitment to what?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
To the giving of acts of love.
</div>

But what is it that you have to be committed to in order to be in a
position to engage in acts of love?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Interaction. Relationship.
</div>

No. Each of you, without your connection with God, do not know how to
Love. You don&rsquo;t know What Love Is.

So, because I&rsquo;ve used a phrase that is a part of the teaching of
Christian Science, I&rsquo;m going to use another statement that Mary
Baker Eddy used. She said, &ldquo;Follow me only in so far as I follow
Christ.&rdquo; Now what does that mean? It means, how are you going to
know whether she&rsquo;s following Christ unless you go within yourself
like she did, or like she was doing when she was here, let us say. You
won&rsquo;t know whether she&rsquo;s following Christ if you are not
following her example and going within and asking the Christ,
&ldquo;What is the Truth? What should I do? What&rsquo;s the next
appropriate step?&rdquo;

So, if you&rsquo;re going to follow somebody, like Mother Theresa,
you&rsquo;d better do what she did, and that was she talked with God all
day long.  Her commitment was to let God shine through&ndash;not a human
being, not an ego&ndash;so that her human being became illuminated with
God.

The Atonement is a total commitment. Yes. And Atonement &hellip; and
Atonement means an Act of Love. So Atonement means commitment to Eternal
Acts of Love.

So, you&rsquo;ve got to love your Brother and your Sister enough to not
honor who they are presenting themselves as, but with them in mind
specifically, one-on-one, go within and ask God, &ldquo;What is the
Truth here about my friend? Reveal to me the Divine Presence that has to
be here in order for me to see something less because my vision
isn&rsquo;t complete.&rdquo;

You must use each other as your reason for turning to God, so that in
turning to God you are blessed with Vision that causes your experience
of your Brother or Sister who drove you to God [audience amused] and be
able to give back the Gift that God has given you. And now we have an
Act of Love that came from God, that was started by your willingness to
have an object of your affection. And use that object of your affection,
even if he or she has been a real bitch or bastard, to use that one as a
reason for asking to see the Truth and turning to God, so that you might
have the influx of the Gift of Vision that is imbued with Love, and
which, because it has infilled you, causes you to send out Messengers of
Love spontaneously, without a single thought of premeditation, that will
go out to your Brother or Sister, who is your reason to turn to God, who
you are caring enough to ask God about, and bring back to you
confirmation of the Loveliness, the Divinity, the Innocence, the
Perfection of your Brother or Sister.

Do you see? Now you understand what I mean.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yes.
</div>

The commitment to your Brother or Sister to engage in an Act of Love
means that you are going to turn to God to learn of your Brother or
Sister.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And not decide what the Act of Love is before it occurs.
</div>

Absolutely. Because until you are connected with God, you don&rsquo;t have the
foggiest idea of What Love Is. Because you and everyone else are
operating on the basis of your mutually-agreed-upon definitions of love,
and those mutually-agreed-upon definitions of love have nothing to do
with doing something for someone else. They have only to do with getting
something yourself&ndash;security where it doesn&rsquo;t exist to be had; safety
where it doesn&rsquo;t exist to be had; success where it doesn&rsquo;t exist to be
had.

Right?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So just allow these Acts of Love to manifest wherever we find ourselves
in our own lives at all times.
</div>

Yes. Making sure, having a deep commitment to not engage in those Acts
of Love frivolously, haphazardly, offhandedly. There must be a deep
commitment to connecting securely and solidly with the Holy Spirit, or
with Me, or with your Guide, or with God, so that you can feel the utter
appropriateness of whatever the act turns out to be; so that you can
feel the Divinity of it; not the rightness of it.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Giving up our own accountability for the Act of Love.
</div>

Absolutely. Because that which feels accountable is not the Divine One
You Are, but the ego. Absolutely.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So we&rsquo;re back to just letting go. Letting God.
</div>

Right.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Not fighting the impulses.
</div>

That&rsquo;s right.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
When it says here, &ldquo;the miracle turns the defense of Atonement to your
real protection,&rdquo; is what that means, by following Guidance, then you&rsquo;re
not hooked by the ego, and that is your real protection?
</div>

Exactly.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And then it says, &ldquo;and as you become more and more secure, you assume
your natural talent of protecting others,&rdquo; that&rsquo;s witnessing?
</div>

That&rsquo;s witnessing. And that&rsquo;s engaging in affection.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Affection.
</div>

Acts of Love.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And so by doing that, you&rsquo;re also bringing the energy there which helps
protect them from getting hooked by their ego.
</div>

Exactly.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Thank you.
</div>

And it also [laughing] protects them from you.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
From trying to Mother Theresa them.
</div> 

That&rsquo;s right. [audience laughter] That&rsquo;s right.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Last week you talked about the treasures, and what we value, what we
treasured, and how much we treasured it. And then you threw in the
&ldquo;why.&rdquo; That&rsquo;s what this is about. That&rsquo;s the
connectedness to the Atonement, to the affection. That&rsquo;s why.
</div>

That is a good way of putting it. Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And it was amazing to me as I worked with that over and over again, how
I found I consistently would go to something I could get out of it. It
just amazed me that I was still so rooted in the idea of getting. And
when you put it like you did, it just bring me right up to the
startling-ness of that, over and over again. How it would start to come
in as some cozy little concept, and then when you got it right down,
there it was&ndash;trying to get something again.

And when you first asked that about reaching out in the room, what came
to me the first thing, was really clear, was like reach for my cell
phone, which I thought was a smart-assed answer, but it really was the
only answer. You&rsquo;ve got to reach out to somebody else.

And when I&rsquo;m sitting there and feeling comfortable, connected to the
Love that you and what I get connected with provides, you&rsquo;ve been over
and over clarifying that that&rsquo;s &hellip; that&rsquo;s not where it ends.
</div>

Indeed.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
This is really good stuff.
</div>

Well, it&rsquo;s Reality. And Reality is good stuff. The Way It Works is good
stuff, even though, as it says, to the ego it seems to be a loss.

Let us continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
THE ALTAR OF GOD

The Atonement can be accepted within you only by the releasing of the
inner light.
</div>

We really have discussed this. The question is, &ldquo;Where are you going to
get the inner Light?&rdquo;

Continue.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Since the separation, defenses have been used almost entirely to defend
against the Atonement, and thus maintain the separation. This is
generally seen as a need to protect the body. The many body fantasies in
which minds engage arise from the distorted belief that the body can be
used as a means for attaining &ldquo;atonement.&rdquo;
</div>

Yes. Now, do you think that&rsquo;s what I was describing? No.

The body cannot be used as a means for attaining the Atonement. The
Atonement principle is Love, and Atonement is an Act of Love arising out
of the Living Presence of the principle in you. Thus, the body does not
become a means of attaining the Atonement, but as a means of expressing
it, as a means of giving it.

Do you see the difference?

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Perceiving the body as a temple is only the first step in correcting
this distortion, because it alters only part of it. It does recognize
that Atonement in physical terms is impossible. The next step, however,
is to realize that a temple is not a structure at all. Its true holiness
lies at the inner altar around which the structure is built. The
emphasis on beautiful structures is a sign of the fear of Atonement, and
an unwillingness to reach the altar itself.
</div>

Now this is a metaphor. And you need to know it. And once you see the
metaphor, it will be utterly clear.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The emphasis on beautiful structures &hellip;
</div>

Well, when you read those words, &ldquo;beautiful structures,&rdquo; and you have
just been talking about temples, immediately gothic cathedrals, modern
cathedrals, stained-glass windows, exquisite pipe organ pipes come to
mind. When it&rsquo;s like, hmmm, how can that be a sign of the fear of
Atonement? But, if the body&ndash;and I&rsquo;m not going to come around and tap
everyone&rsquo;s knee again&ndash;it&rsquo;s a temple. Well, it makes a lot more sense if
you say the emphasis on beautiful bodies is a sign of the fear of
Atonement, and an unwillingness to reach the Altar itself. It&rsquo;s easier
to see that a preoccupation with presenting a good human form is a good
way of covering up your heart. If you&rsquo;re connected to your heart, you
will be the Presence of Love unshaven, hair unkempt; not caring at all
about a beautiful structure, a beautiful presentation. You see?

The next sentence says:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The real beauty of the temple cannot be seen with the physical eye.
</div>

So preoccupation with the form, preoccupation with the exterior, is
indeed the way you cover up and make safe, make safely hidden the Love
That You Are, the Love that it is your Function to be embodying.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Spiritual sight, on the other hand, cannot see the structure at all
because it is perfect vision. It can, however, see the altar with
perfect clarity.
</div>

I&rsquo;m going to alter that slightly. It may see the structure, but
that is not where its attention is drawn. Its attention is drawn to the
reason it&rsquo;s there, which is to embrace the Altar.

Let me put it this way. It&rsquo;s a rainy day. You&rsquo;ve agreed to
meet someone on the corner of an intersection. The corner has no
awnings. The buildings have no awnings. And so you&rsquo;re standing
there under your umbrella. And your friend comes hurriedly walking down
the street, sees you on the corner, is glad to know that you are dry,
but other than that, could care less about the umbrella, because you are
who your friend came to see. In effect, your friend wouldn&rsquo;t see
the umbrella, because the umbrella isn&rsquo;t what he came to meet.

Likewise, spiritual sight comes to be in communion with the Altar in the
temple, and therefore doesn&rsquo;t notice the temple, because the
temple isn&rsquo;t what it came to see. You see?

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For perfect effectiveness the Atonement belongs at the center of the
inner altar, where it undoes the separation and restores the wholeness
of the mind. Before the separation the mind was invulnerable to fear,
because fear did not exist.
</div>

Interesting. Because fear did not exist, it was invulnerable to fear.
How can you be invulnerable to something that doesn&rsquo;t exist?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Before the separation the mind was invulnerable to fear, because fear
did not exist.
</div>

It is put this way so that you might grasp that invulnerability
regained, will not be some ultimate form of defense that nothing can
stand up to successfully. The invulnerability that your willingness to
become defenseless will uncover to you, will be an invulnerability that
doesn&rsquo;t require power to keep you safe.

We must talk about invulnerability, because from your present frame of
reference, you feel vulnerable. And you feel that the vulnerability is
part of the human condition and is unavoidable. From the ego&rsquo;s
vantage point, invulnerability must be the result of a good defense, of
armaments, of moats, and castle walls, and so on. And so it&rsquo;s
natural to assume that as you move forward in your Awakening, your
Divine Invulnerability will be some form of ultimate defense, but it
isn&rsquo;t.

You are invulnerable, because in the absence of the choice for defense,
that which you appeared to need defense against, undergoes an alteration
in your mind, a sudden shift of perception, that allows you to see What
Is Truly There and be infilled with appreciation for What Is Truly
There, and thus engage in the Atonement, which will transform the world.
And you will come to an experiential appreciation of the meaning of the
statement, &ldquo;In my defenselessness my safety lies.&rdquo;

In my defenselessness, my invulnerability lies. In my defenselessness, I
am refusing to be in a polarized state of mind. And in the absence of
polarities, I am unable to see conflict. And in my inability to see
conflict, the Presence of God can become obvious to me. And I can
rejoice at the Saint, who I thought was my irritating brother.

And you know what? When you&rsquo;re not seeing an irritating brother
there because you truly are seeing the Saint that he is, the Presence of
God that he is, your bristles, your hackles, your quills, lay down. And
you are no longer threatening to your Brother. And the genuineness of
your benign-ness can be recognized by your Brother, so that he can say,
&ldquo;Wow. I never thought he would relax so that we could just relate
with each other.&rdquo; And he will dare to relate with you in a new
way, because you dared to let your affections be enriched.

Spiritual Sight cannot see the structure at all because it is Perfect
Vision. Spiritual Sight is.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It can, however, see the altar with perfect clarity.
</div>

And seeing the Altar in your Brother, seeing your Brother&rsquo;s heart
allows you to watch with him a moment, be with him a moment, while he
thinks he is on his way to the crucifixion. The Bible says, I said,
&ldquo;Could you not watch with me?&rdquo; You need to stand with each
other. You need to be with others affectionately&ndash;with warmth, with
defenselessness. And the only thing that will allow you to do that is if
you&rsquo;re willing to look at your Brother with Someone Who Is Awake,
who can illuminate to you the loveliness of the bitch, or the loveliness
of the bastard, and the lovableness of them both, and illuminate your
capacity to love them right then and there, so that it is embodied.

We will let things rest there for tonight&ndash;a wonderful resting
place.

I thank you for wanting to have your affections enriched. It makes it a
downright pleasure to be with you.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Thank you.
</div>

You are welcome.

[^1]: Students commenting or asking a question.
[^2]: ACIM 2nd Edition: T2.II The Atonement as Defense

