---
title: Dec 5, 2002
ref: T2.III The Alter of God
---

Good evening. And good evening to everyone on the Internet as well.

The chapter we&rsquo;re on is called: *The Altar of God*.

And the last time we were discussing this chapter, we discussed the
tendency when one has attempted to function independent of the Father,
to become preoccupied with the beauty of the temple that the Altar is
in. And that in so doing, one causes the Altar to recede in one&rsquo;s
mind until it becomes forgotten.

But there is another thing you all do with the temple that isn&rsquo;t
so beautiful, and that is that because you have your back turned to the
Altar, and because you are experiencing separateness, aloneness, which
isn&rsquo;t natural to you to be feeling, the unnaturalness that you
feel, you identify as fear. And then, out of fear, you transform the
temple into a fortress, a defense, a defense against whatever&rsquo;s
out there that is responsible for your being afraid. You see? And if you
find the fortress not protecting you well, you strengthen it. You
develop it. You find a bigger and better way to be safe. And all the
time, your back is turned to the Altar.

Now, you must understand that the Altar is the Presence of God that is
the very Presence of You. And there is an Effulgence to it, an
Illumination to it. A Glow, if you will. And the Glow is what you might
call the temple that surrounds the Illumination of the Presence of God
that is the actual center and circumference of you.

When you imagine that you can step back from the Light that is you and
observe it, you find that you can also imagine a capacity to turn your
back on it and notice the Glow without seeing the Altar, without seeing
the Source of the Glow. And then you can become preoccupied with it,
because it is the only thing in your view. And so you can beautify it,
or you can strengthen it, or you can do whatever your imagination can
come up with, except that because your back is turned on your Essential
Being, and you cannot avoid but feel the unnaturalness of that stance,
everything you do, whether it&rsquo;s beautifying the temple or creating
a fortress out of it, will be done out of fear, and as a defense.

Now, your body is the Visibility and Tangibility of your Individuality.
Your Individuality is Spirit; not matter; not solid form. Therefore, the
Visibility and Tangibility of you has to also be utter Spirit; not
tangible matter.

But the moment you begin to use the temple as a means of defense, you
densify it, as I&rsquo;ve said before. You tighten it up. Indeed, I know
that almost all of you, at this particular time, with all of the
invitations you have through the media to feel fear, are experiencing
physical tension, are experiencing queasiness in the pit of your
stomach, are generally not feeling at ease in your body. And the reason
is because you are preparing it to defend yourself.

Now, I&rsquo;m going to ask you a trick question. Which came first, the
invitation to fear, or, the physical sensation of fear? I&rsquo;m not
going to have you answer that question. Some of you are likely to say,
&ldquo;I was feeling uneasy before I got any indication from my world
that there was a need for it.&rdquo; And others of you will say,
&ldquo;I wasn&rsquo;t feeling anything until I started watching the
news.&rdquo; Well, what came first wasn&rsquo;t the call for fear, or,
the uneasy feeling within you. What came first was turning your back on
the Altar. If this is clear to you, then you will be able to understand
easily and clearly that the answer to the call for fear and the physical
sensation of uneasiness, is to give your attention back to the Altar, so
that you don&rsquo;t engage in defense beautifully, or by having a
strong fortress.

&ldquo;Oh, let&rsquo;s defend ourselves through reason and compassion.
Let&rsquo;s defend ourselves through prayer. Let&rsquo;s defend
ourselves through a positive attitude. Let&rsquo;s defend ourselves by
consciously embracing our enemy with love.&rdquo; You see, that&rsquo;s
a beautiful way of defending yourself, but it&rsquo;s still defense.

You&rsquo;ve got to stop keeping your back to the Altar. You&rsquo;ve
got to abandon looking at effects, and turn within to the place where
your Peace is available to you. And you must choose for your Peace
first, before you look out there, so that when you access your Peace,
you may feel the Presence of God&rsquo;s Love that is there growing
brighter and illuminating you with the Gift of Love, so that all you are
impelled to do, or be, is the uncomplicated Presence of Love that sees
What God Would Have You See where you had seen an enemy that you needed
to defend yourself against.  And that is the only thing that is going to
transform whatever situation you&rsquo;re confronted by that seems to be
a justifiable call for fear.

Now I want you to understand also that as long as you engage in the
habit of using your body as a shield, as a fortress, as a presence of
that which has the capacity to exert force, you will find yourself
experiencing your body trying to accommodate your intent to use it as a
defense. And you will be uncomfortable. You will become ill. You will
find dis-eases, simply because your decision to act and be a forceful
presence for your defense causes you to use the Glow of the Altar as a
means of being unconscious of the Altar. And your ever-present Sanity,
with a capital &ldquo;S&rdquo;, does not allow you to become more
powerful as an independent agent for change without your experiencing an
equal amount of distress.

Your Sanity, the ever-present Balance of Being, causes every single one
of you, when you are attempting to act at odds with Being, to be met
with an equal force in the opposite direction, you might say. In other
words, if you tried to stretch into a position, or a shape, that God
didn&rsquo;t give you the ability to move into, your attempt will be met
with an awareness that you can&rsquo;t do it. And it will also be met
with an awareness of the unnaturalness of it, because even though you
tried to act and think insanely, you haven&rsquo;t been given the
capacity to do it.

And so you say, &ldquo;I am going to protect myself against my enemy.
And I am going to use my body, because it&rsquo;s the only thing I have
to use, as the fortress and the weapon. And I am going to do whatever I
have to do to protect myself, no matter how aggressive my enemy
gets.&rdquo; And the more intense you become, the more at odds with the
nature of the temple of the Glow of the Altar, you become. And you
squeeze the Life, you squeeze the Glow, you squeeze the Light out of it.
Not that you can actually do that, but you squeeze it out of your range
of vision. And ultimately, you may find that your so-called
&ldquo;enemy&rdquo; has killed you, when actually you have turned the
Light out by insisting on attempting to solve the problem that you have
misperceived as existing by getting rid of it, and using the Glow of
your Being as the means of doing it. And the only result you can seem to
have is to find yourself snuffed out.

So when you attack your enemy, you&rsquo;re attacking yourself, because
the whole scenario has arisen out of a fantastic imagination that you
could actually turn your back on the Light of your Being, the Altar that
is in the very center of you, and engage in anything, beautiful or ugly,
loving or hateful, healing or killing, without being connected with your
Source. And so the enemy you see, because you have your back to the
Altar, seems to kill you because that is the scenario you have set in
place by becoming defended against this imaginary entity.

Now it doesn&rsquo;t have to be Saddam Hussein. It can be your child. It
can be your lover. It can be your mate. It can be an employer, or an
employee. You&rsquo;re getting constant invitations to feel vulnerable
these days. And it&rsquo;s very easy for whatever vulnerability you
activate within yourself to rub off, or color, your experience of
everyone else. And anyone and everyone can become the object of your
suspicion and very creative, imaginative ideas about just how they are
being terrible and operating to your detriment.

So this is really a time to remember what your Function is, which is to
be the Presence of Love. And to remember that the Atonement Principle,
because Atonement is what this is all about, the Atonement Principle is
Love, and the Atonement is an Act of Love.

And as long as your attention is on the temple, I&rsquo;ll put it this
way, as long as your attention is on the Glow from the Altar, and
whether you make it into a temple or a fortress, you&rsquo;re ultimately
going to have to realize that the answer to any form of defense is to
turn around so that your back isn&rsquo;t to the Altar. And so that you
can see the Altar, and in your imagined distance from it, feel yourself
being loved by the Love That Is Really You, That Is Really God Being The
Presence That Is You, so that your decision to stand apart from It and
observe It might melt in the Presence Of That Love. And you will find
yourself slipping back into being It, rather than standing apart from It
and observing It, and apparently giving yourself a vantage point where
you can turn your back on It and look out there and see a world that you
must be defended against.

Maybe it isn&rsquo;t another country. Maybe it isn&rsquo;t a mate, or a
child, or a parent, or an employer, or an employee. Maybe it&rsquo;s
your body that you are finding yourself needing to defend yourself
against, because it is not behaving properly and threatening your life.
You see? Maybe it is what is causing you to be vulnerable to the worst.

You see, even the Glow from the Altar that you look at, which is really
the temple, but which you look at with your back turned to the Altar,
can become that which you have to defend yourself against. And so, here
you are, using your body as a defense against It, further compounding
the densifying of Pure Light, Pure Glow, the Pure Energy of Spirit that
never was matter, and never was governed by the laws of matter, the laws
of physics.

So, with that in mind, let&rsquo;s begin. Again, it&rsquo;s the second
paragraph on page 21, for those who are in the second edition. And for
those who are in the first edition, it&rsquo;s page 18, the second
paragraph.

Okay &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For perfect effectiveness the Atonement belongs at the center of the
inner altar, where it undoes the separation and restores the wholeness
of the mind.[^1]
</div>

Now, it is already there. For perfect effectiveness, it is already
there. The point is that that&rsquo;s where you need to bring your attention.
Your attention needs to be brought to the center of your Being, the
inner quietness.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Before the separation the mind was invulnerable to fear, because fear
did not exist.
</div>

And after the separation, the mind is invulnerable to fear, because fear
does not exist.

So, it&rsquo;s not like the separation happened a long time ago and now you&rsquo;re
stuck in it. All you have to do is be willing to not be separate any
more. And the moment you make that joining with the Presence of God in
the middle of you, then you will find you&rsquo;re invulnerable, and that
there is no fear, and that there never was. So again, it&rsquo;s not something
that happened in the past. It&rsquo;s a change of mind that occurred which can
be unchanged at any moment.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Both the separation and the fear are miscreations that must be undone
for the restoration of the temple, and for the opening of the altar to
receive the Atonement. This heals the separation by placing within you
the one effective defense against all separation thoughts and making you
perfectly invulnerable.
</div>

The one effective defense against all separation thoughts is to abandon
your imagined capacity to stand separate and objectively view the
Subjective Experience of Being Love Itself. The only effective defense
against an illusion is to stop indulging in the illusion. And because
you can&rsquo;t actually become something you are not, you never did become
something that had that capacity. And so that fact that you have never
changed one iota for one second from What God Created You To Be is the
answer that&rsquo;s already in place in the middle of you because it was never
undone.

Okay.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I have a question about when you were talking about turning our backs to
the Altar. Every time we do that, is that always an attack on the body?[^2]
</div>

It&rsquo;s always an attack on God, you might say. It&rsquo;s always an attack on
your Essential Being. And because you are using your body in order
to&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Wake up.
</div>

No, because you are using your body as the means of attacking God, you
are causing it to try to do something that it cannot actually do. When
you do that, it doesn&rsquo;t change your body. Your body doesn&rsquo;t actually
become diseased. And your body cannot ultimately die, because the Glow
will always be there. And it will forever be the Illumination of Light,
and not matter. But you can seem to create an experience of density in
your body that you could call an attack on your body. But remember that
in order to become preoccupied with the Glow, you must already have
turned your back to the Altar.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Hence my question. And it&rsquo;s not valuable to look at it that way. That it
is an attack on the body, but it kind of &hellip; that&rsquo;s what I thought
when you said that.
</div>

Well, let me put it this way. When you take your fist and attack the
wall by punching it, which one do you think hurts?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Your hand. [laughing]
</div>

Yeah. Not the wall.

So when you use your body as a means of attack, you find it suffering.
But the moment you turn around and give your attention to the Altar, and
you abandon the attack-mode so that you might be infilled with the
Father&rsquo;s Love that illuminates that It, the Father&rsquo;s Love, is the very
Presence of your Being, then all injury that seemed to occur in your
little fantasy disappears.

You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I see.
</div>

And the Glow doesn&rsquo;t go away, but it isn&rsquo;t the center of your attention
any more.

Okay.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Thank you.
</div>

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The acceptance of the Atonement by everyone is only a matter of time.
This may appear to contradict free will because of the inevitability of
the final decision, but this is not so. You can temporize and you are
capable of enormous procrastination, but you cannot depart entirely from
your Creator, Who set the limits on your ability to miscreate.
</div>

Yes. Now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
[in the background] You can&rsquo;t avoid it. [audience laughter]

[more audience laughter] [Raj laughing]

That horrible word. [audience laughter]
</div>

You see, in order to act at odds with the Father, you must attempt to
stretch the Father, or compress the Father, or in some way twist What
The Father Is, because you are given no other material to work with but
What God Is Being.

And so you might imagine that God is a giant rubber band that is Eternal
and Inviolable, and therefore cannot be damaged or broken, but which,
because it is a rubber band, can be stretched. And so, you attach one
end of it to an immovable rock, and you start stretching it. Well, you
can&rsquo;t stop it from being What It Is, and you can&rsquo;t make it
become something else, but what you find happening is that as you walk
further and further away from the rock, it becomes more and more
difficult because you are trying with more and more force to accomplish
something that is impossible&ndash;to stretch God out of shape.

So, you could say that you have free will to try to stretch God, or
twist Him into something He isn&rsquo;t, but because He can&rsquo;t be
twisted into something He isn&rsquo;t, you will inevitably come to the
realization that what you&rsquo;re attempting to do is impossible. And
with understanding, and with comprehension, and with willingness,
you&rsquo;ll stop trying to do the impossible.

So, the end is inevitable. Free will means that you have the right to
cooperate with The Way Things Work. But it also means that you have to
cooperate with The Way Things Work because it&rsquo;s your choice. The
ultimate choice that you&rsquo;re faced with is that you have decided to
co-operate with The Way Things Work. And the word
&ldquo;co-operate&rdquo; is very close in meaning to the word
&ldquo;co-creation.&rdquo;

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
An imprisoned will engenders a situation which, in the extreme, becomes
altogether intolerable.
</div>

That&rsquo;s the really stretched rubber band.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Tolerance for pain may be high, but it is not without limit.
</div>

You see, you never totally lose your Sanity, and so when something
becomes obviously unreasonable, you have the capacity to recognize it.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Eventually everyone begins to recognize, however dimly, that there must
be a better way. As this recognition becomes more firmly established, it
becomes a turning-point.
</div>

Yes &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This ultimately reawakens spiritual vision, simultaneously weakening the
investment in physical sight.
</div>

And I&rsquo;m going to put it this way. Spiritual Vision arises out of the
decision to turn toward the Altar. Physical vision results from the
decision to turn your back on the Altar. The decision to turn your back
to the Altar is an abandonment of Wisdom. And the decision to turn back
toward the Altar is an Expression of Wisdom.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The alternating investment in the two levels of perception is usually
experienced as conflict, which can become very acute. But the outcome is
as certain as God.
</div>

And the more acute a situation gets, the closer you are, I&rsquo;m going to
put it this way, to having your will broken&ndash;your will to operate at odds
with God. And so the more acute the situation is, you might say the more
miracle-ready you are. Because the Sanity in you that you cannot get rid
of, even though you can try to ignore it, stands ready in that state of
acuteness to register with you.

It stands ready for you to recognize once again, so that you say, &ldquo;Ah! I
get it! I&rsquo;ve been making it difficult for myself by doing it the way I
wanted to do it without being curious to know What Really Works. And so
I&rsquo;m going to ask for Help. I&rsquo;m going to turn around where I can see the
Altar. I am going to re-embrace that in me which holds the answer which
I rejected at some point.&rdquo;

You see, Wisdom is something more than just an intellectual
&ldquo;Aha!&rdquo; It&rsquo;s something that comes from very deep within
you, because it&rsquo;s part of your innate Sanity. And so you feel it.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Spiritual vision literally cannot see error, and merely looks for
Atonement. All solutions the physical eye seeks dissolve. Spiritual
vision looks within and recognizes immediately that the altar has been
defiled and needs to be repaired and protected. Perfectly aware of the
right defense it passes over all others, looking past error to truth.
</div>

Yes. You see, the whole reason that one doesn&rsquo;t turn toward the Altar is
because one is preoccupied with the error, and defense against it, out
of self-righteousness. You see? And so one is committed to exposing the
error, and demonstrating its horribleness, and proving that it must be
annihilated&ndash;instead of stopping a moment, and going within, and becoming
still, which is the equivalent of turning around so that your back isn&rsquo;t
to the Altar, and letting in the Perspective that is naturally and
eternally yours, so that you can with Love reassess your choice of how
to perceive what you&rsquo;re seeing. And make a new choice colored by,
supported by, and illuminated by, the Love That You Are, that you have
become reacquainted with once again, by virtue of abandoning your
commitment to the error and its eradication, and instead yielding into
the Love in the center of your Being that is the Presence of God and His
Perspective. And that&rsquo;s what heals.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Because of the strength of its vision, it brings the mind into its
service.
</div>

Ah, yes! You thought, you all have thought that your mind is the
authorizer. That it&rsquo;s not there to be in service to anything. It is
something for everyone else and everything else to be in service to.

&ldquo;Let&rsquo;s move this mountain. Let&rsquo;s clear this forest.
Let&rsquo;s transform the land. Let&rsquo;s do what will damage the
ozone layer, just because we want to do it. After all, we won&rsquo;t be
here to suffer the consequences. Let&rsquo;s make our mark on the earth.
Let&rsquo;s make our mark on each other. Let&rsquo;s coerce each other
into being what we want them to be, or stop them from being what we
don&rsquo;t want them to be.&rdquo;

And so everything must become subject and in service to the mind that
has conceived the idea of how things ought to be. But that&rsquo;s not
the Function of the Mind. And as long as one insists upon employing it
that way, one is at odds with The Way Things Work. And you are going to
exist in an ongoing state of suffering, which will be more, or less,
intense depending upon whether you are more, or less, in harmony with
The Way Things Work.

It is insulting to the ego to let the Mind be in service to the
Atonement, to be in service to the Father&rsquo;s Will, to be in service
to Love.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
May I ask a question with regards to what you said just now?
</div>

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
When you said, you know, the mind says, &ldquo;let&rsquo;s move the mountain, and
make people do this,&rdquo; or whatever, it seems to me that the underlying
driving force in this world seems to be seeking money, the accumulation
of wealth.
</div>

No. Let&rsquo;s be clearer than that.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay.
</div>

The driving force in the world isn&rsquo;t that. The driving force in those
who are conceptualizing how things are to be in the world is that.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yes. Yes.
</div>

The world is the Manifestation of God. Never more. Never less. So be
careful how you use your words.

Because, likewise, the body can&rsquo;t function at odds with you,
because it doesn&rsquo;t have a capacity to act on its own. But when you
say, &ldquo;My body is killing me,&rdquo; or &ldquo;My body is letting
me down,&rdquo; you create an image that simply isn&rsquo;t true. And if
you believe that image, then undoing that belief becomes the first step
before you can actually get down to the realization that you are using
your body as a defense, trying to make it function in a way it
wasn&rsquo;t meant to, by following instructions you are giving to it
that you weren&rsquo;t meant to give to it. You see? And once that
realization occurs, you can address the problem by changing your mind.

Continue, though.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
The &hellip; it &hellip; would it be &hellip;
</div>

The current mindset in the world is.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
The current mindset in the world is to accumulate wealth. This to me
seems like &hellip;
</div>

The current mindset in the world is to accumulate power.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Power.
</div>

And wealth seems to be one of the most effective &hellip; ummm &hellip; one of
the most effective means of influencing others to allow power to be
exercised over them.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Even people who have great wealth still seem to be motivated to&ndash;not all,
but many&ndash;to accumulate more power, and more power, and more power, and
more power. So, is this another way of saying defense? Having power,
therefore you can defend against whatever you perceive to be a threat?
</div>

Absolutely. Now that doesn&rsquo;t have to be the only motivation for wealth.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
The reason I&rsquo;m delving into this is because it seems that while the
majority of people in the world are in the mode of thinking that we need
to accumulate more power to protect ourselves, or whatever, then it
really slows down any way of shifting into another way of being.
</div>

Absolutely.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Here&rsquo;s an example. For instance, we know that governments are
basically corrupt in the world, but yet, but yet we &hellip; it&rsquo;s
not like we&rsquo;re incensed by it any longer, or we say, &ldquo;Well,
let&rsquo;s get rid of those guys and bring in some honest
people.&rdquo; It&rsquo;s almost we accept it because we&rsquo;re trying
to do the same thing, or the majority of people are trying to do the
same thing, and that is accumulate power. So how can I fault those who
are accumulating power more successfully, apparently, than I am, because
I&rsquo;m trying to do the same thing? So therefore, I&rsquo;m going to
accept the way things are and just get the money and run, so to speak,
which seems like that&rsquo;s where the world would &hellip; the world
in &hellip; I mean in terms of the illusion, is stuck right now.
</div>

That&rsquo;s where the current mindset is. Exactly.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Exactly.
</div> 

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Exactly.
</div>

Ah.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So &hellip;
</div>

But so what. It may be currently immobilized, but not incapable of
movement. And so, someone, somewhere, like maybe you, or anyone else in
this room, can abandon that game, abandon that mindset, and start being
the Presence of Love, the gifter, instead of the getter. And let
everything that is done with money be done for reasons other than
self-protection. Let what is done with money embrace and gift with no
strings. Let everything that is done with money bless, not you, but
those to whom you would extend your Love. Not your Love, but the Love
that arises in you when you have turned your &hellip; when you have
turned around toward the Altar and been filled by the Love that is in
It.

Now, you might say, &ldquo;Well, that&rsquo;s going to be a hard row to
hoe, because I&rsquo;m going against the whole world!&rdquo;

Well, you&rsquo;ve got to remember the only one whose misperceptions are
distressing you are yours. And when you turn around, your distress will
dissolve. And you&rsquo;ll see that you&rsquo;re not going against the
stream, you&rsquo;re not going against the world&rsquo;s mindset,
because you don&rsquo;t need them to change in order for your distress
to dissolve. And you don&rsquo;t need them to see it your way in order
for your Wholeness to be experienced by you. But by being Love, you will
be part of the leaven that leavens the whole lump, and allows someone
else to say (who still thinks they&rsquo;re caught in the world),
&ldquo;Ah! Well, he did it. And she did it. And I understand that over
in Idaho there&rsquo;s a whole group of people who did it. It&rsquo;s
not as hard as &hellip; it is not as hard. I don&rsquo;t think
it&rsquo;s going to be as hard as Michael did, when he did it.&rdquo;
You start the domino falling.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So it&rsquo;s like when you&rsquo;re filled up by turning around the
other way and being filled by the Love that&rsquo;s coming from the
Altar, then when you&rsquo;re filled up, you cannot but give.
</div>

That is correct.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Which is the only legitimate reason for giving&ndash;because you are
filled.
</div>

Exactly! Because you can&rsquo;t hold it all!

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And there&rsquo;s no reason to want to hold it all.
</div>

That&rsquo;s correct.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This re-establishes the power of the mind and makes it increasingly
unable to tolerate delay, realizing that it only adds unnecessary pain.
As a result, the mind becomes increasingly sensitive to what it would
once have regarded as very minor intrusions of discomfort.
</div>

Yes. Oh, and that increased sensitivity. [reader laughs] It makes it so
easy to get pissed off at everyone else&rsquo;s ignorance, which makes
it very easy for you to become defended again, and turn your back on the
Altar.

&ldquo;My God, these are my friends. I had no idea they didn&rsquo;t
grasp what they said they were grasping. I had no idea how far back in
the dark ages they actually were!&rdquo; You see? As you see more
clearly, things that hadn&rsquo;t bothered you before, didn&rsquo;t
register with you before. And as you become clearer, it&rsquo;s easier
to see how unclear others still are, which means that you didn&rsquo;t
assess them well before you became enlightened.  And you were really
associating with, oh, people you shouldn&rsquo;t have been associating
with. And you also find yourself with the feeling that, because you
thought they knew better, and now you see that they don&rsquo;t know
better, they must have been misrepresenting themselves, and therefore
are not worthy of your putting up with their ignorance.

There are many ways the ego can come in, in the face of greater Clarity
and a greater willingness to Love, to show you just how unworthy those
who you liked before, are of the Pure Love that you now have to give, 
because they had misled you. So you must be very careful that as your 
greater capacity to be the Presence of Love because you&rsquo;ve opened 
yourself up to it &hellip;

(Paul: I&rsquo;m sorry. I lost it.)

You must be very careful that because of your increased capacity to be
the Presence of Love because you opened up to it, does not become
sidetracked by judgments resulting from seeing that your buddies, your
friends, your kindred spirits, are more ignorant than you thought they
were.

Hey, if they&rsquo;re more ignorant than you thought they were, and you
see that they&rsquo;re really committed to their ignorances, my God,
here they were ones you thought were on their spiritual path and more
enlightened, and they&rsquo;re less enlightened than you thought, what
must this mean about the whole world? The whole world must be in a
bigger mess than I thought, and it&rsquo;s going to be impossible to be
an agent for change.

That&rsquo;s what the ego does when you are infilled with the
willingness to be the Presence of Love more fully. And so, you find
yourself faced with the requirement to examine your commitment to be the
Presence of Love, to find out if this is now the new level of what it
will take to cause you to abandon being the Presence of Love, because
it&rsquo;s either hopeless, or it&rsquo;s not worth it, or they&rsquo;re
not worth it. You see? Greater clarity and the willingness to be the
fuller Presence of Love will uncover to you just how much Love is
needed.

And the temptation will be to turn your back on the Altar, and be
bothered, disgusted, depressed, by how great the ignorance is. And then,
once again, all by yourself, unconnected from your Source, feel like
giving up and forgetting that all you have to do is turn around again
and make commitment to the Light in the middle of the Altar, which
ultimately you&rsquo;re going to find out is You yourself.

Okay. Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The children of God are entitled to the perfect comfort that comes from
perfect trust.
</div>

You&rsquo;re entitled to it. It&rsquo;s a Birthright. It doesn&rsquo;t
have to be earned.  It&rsquo;s yours.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Until they achieve this, they waste themselves and their true creative
powers on useless attempts to make themselves more comfortable by
inappropriate means.
</div>

Yes. By creating a better, more beautiful temple, or creating a better,
bigger, stronger fortress, or trying as a separate private force to make
good happen. These are all attempts to make themselves more comfortable
by inappropriate means.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
But the real means are already provided, and do not involve any effort
at all on their part.
</div>

&ldquo;Oh, no!&rdquo; the ego says. [some audience laughter] &ldquo;It
doesn&rsquo;t involve any effort? Well, where can willfulness come into
play? When can intent come into play? Where can purposefulness come into
play?&rdquo; You see? Well, purposefulness can&rsquo;t come into play,
but Purpose can. And it&rsquo;s already present. And it&rsquo;s already
the very Presence of You. You see?

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Atonement is the only gift that is worthy of being offered at the
altar of God, because of the value of the altar itself. It was created
perfect and is entirely worthy of receiving perfection.
</div>

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God and His creations are completely dependent on each other. He depends
on them because He created them perfect.
</div>

You see? [laughing] If He hadn&rsquo;t created them perfect, He
wouldn&rsquo;t dare depend on them. [mild audience laughter]

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He depends on them because He created them perfect.
</div>

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Can I make a comment?
</div>

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
A few years ago at a Gathering, someone asked you how you awakened, and
you said, &ldquo;By getting in touch with my innermost feelings.&rdquo; And, it
seems to me that you were looking at the Altar. And correct me if I&rsquo;m
wrong. I certainly don&rsquo;t want to lapse into an intellectual, you know,
discourse. I want to try and stay with what we&rsquo;re seeing tonight.
</div>

Indeed. You&rsquo;re correct.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So you were being honest with yourself?
</div>

I was being honest with my capital &ldquo;S&rdquo; Self.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And you just &hellip;
</div> 

Not honest with my ego. That&rsquo;s for sure.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
What did you do next? In other words, how did you stay with what you saw
without turning your back? Is that a question that&rsquo;s a little bit, you
know, misleading to, you know&hellip; umm &hellip; in denial?
</div> 

I made commitment to it. And nothing less. Nothing else.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Just simply that.
</div>

Yes. That is the only option you have available to you.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And you maintained your integrity all through that?
</div>

Well, my Integrity maintained me. [seeker laughs] Your Integrity will
maintain you. You don&rsquo;t have any private integrity to keep you on an
even keel through this process. You see? You have &hellip; you have an
inherent Integrity that is the Flame, the Light, the Illuminate Love,
that&rsquo;s in the center of the Altar. That&rsquo;s your Integrity. And it will
see you through as long as you keep your vision there; as long as that
is where you give your attention.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
My ego says that&rsquo;s impossible.
</div>

Of course, it does. But it always lies. So just because your ego says,
&ldquo;It&rsquo;s impossible,&rdquo; hey, consider the source. And, if
your ego is incapable of anything except lies, then it must be telling
you that it is utterly possible.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
It&rsquo;s not telling me Who and What I Am.
</div>

Never.

And what everyone in this room is.

Never.

[to another seeker] Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
This past couple of weeks have been very intense, and very much what
this whole night has been about. And I just, I want to ask you, is that
what&rsquo;s happening to me?
</div>

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I&rsquo;m not imagining, or making something out of something. I&rsquo;ve been
extremely peaceful, and been able to walk into situations that I joined
the other person in arguments and long-standing years and years of
fighting, and I was able to sit there and be completely in my Peace, and
not feel overwhelmed by what was going on, and still love that other
person, and walk away still in my Peace. Is that &hellip; was that this
experience?
</div>

Exactly.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
It was.
</div>

Yes. It was not you experiencing being irresponsible or being insane.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And it did make a huge difference in that situation.
</div> 

Absolutely.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
It really did move some other people, too.
</div>

It did indeed.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay.

And I&rsquo;ve kept &hellip; that feeling didn&rsquo;t go away. And I
don&rsquo;t ever want it to go away. I really, I understand this.
That&rsquo;s the first time I&rsquo;ve ever understood anything at one
of these things. That&rsquo;s just so cool.

Thank you.
</div>

You are welcome.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Where was I?
</div>

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and do not involve any effort at all on their part.

But the real means are already provided, and do not involve any effort
at all on their part.
</div> 

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Is that from the first edition?
</div>

(Paul: Just a moment. [pause] I&rsquo;m sorry.)

You were at &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He depends on them because He created them perfect.

He gave them His peace so they could not be shaken and could not be
deceived. Whenever you are afraid you are deceived, and your mind cannot
serve the Holy Spirit.
</div>

And last week, the last meeting, Paul demonstrated his willingness, in
the presence of fear, of continuing to give his attention to the Altar,
and persisting, no matter how much his ego was clamoring for his
attention and his allegiance. And that is what each one of you must do,
because it&rsquo;s the answer.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This starves you by denying you your daily bread. God is lonely without
His Sons, and they are lonely without Him.
</div>

What on earth could that mean? How could God be lonely?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Because of the separation.
</div>

I have used the word that &hellip; the word &ldquo;sad.&rdquo; I have
indicated that those of Us Who Are Awake are sad at not being in full
communion with all of you. And yet, you might say, that&rsquo;s
inconsistent for One Who Is &ldquo;supposedly&rdquo; Awake.

If you have a 100-watt light bulb, and you have a dimmer switch, and you
have it turned down so that only 50 watts is being used, the light is
less full. It is dimmer. And because the light was created to function
at 100 watts at full illumination, when its full potential isn&rsquo;t
being used, something is missing. And there&rsquo;s an experience of the
something-ness missing.

And so when so many are caught in a fantasy-dream and are blocking
themselves from full communion with all of Us Who Are Awake, the
difference between Fullness and the degree of communion that exists now
is felt. It feels like something. And it is clear to those of Us Who Are
Awake that the feeling represents something not natural. And so, there
is an involuntary and spontaneous desire to help dissolve, to get rid
of, this inequity, this imbalance, so that the Feeling of Wholeness
which is our Birthright&ndash;ours&ndash;those of Us Who Are Awake and
yours&ndash;it is our Birthright to be all together experiencing that
Fullness and Wholeness.

And so to say that &ldquo;God is lonely,&rdquo; or for me to say that
&ldquo;we are sad,&rdquo; is simply a means of conveying that we can
feel your absence. We can feel your unconsciousness of us. And so it is
as though there is a hole, even though you are totally available to us.
If you are not totally available, even though we are totally available
to you, until you are totally available to us and experiencing
yourselves and us fully, the experience of the Meaning of the word
&ldquo;Natural&rdquo; is missing. You see? And so, we long to be with
you fully, as your Essential Being longs to be with us fully. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Could you tell us what &ldquo;daily bread&rdquo; is? It says,
&ldquo;daily bread,&rdquo; in this paragraph.
</div>

[laughing] Your daily bread is the Gift of God that God makes of Himself
called Creation, called Mind being aware of Its Infinity, and
experiencing every subtle nuance of What It Is Infinitely in every
Aspect of What It Is Being Infinitely, including You. Your daily bread
is the unending Gift of Being that God gives You by being You, anew,
forever.

And that daily bread, that Eternal Sustenance, if you will, that is God
expressing Himself forever fully as You, is what you find will infill
you when you stop having your back to the Altar, and turn around to give
your attention and interest to, so that you might be infilled with It.
And, then, as I said, find that your vantage point apart from the Altar
is something you don&rsquo;t want to energize any more. So that you are,
like a back-in-the-body experience, it&rsquo;s like a
back-into-the-Spirit experience where you are snapped back in, and the
Light is You, and You are the Light. And You are the Light That God Is
Being right there. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
In certain cultures there is a word, like in Hawaiian,
&ldquo;Mana;&rdquo; in Chinese, &ldquo;chi;&rdquo; in Vedic or Indian
philosophy, &ldquo;Prana;&rdquo; which is considered an ambient energy
that&rsquo;s everywhere, that we can absorb, and we feed on it.
It&rsquo;s very subtle energy. Is this an interpretation of that same
concept?
</div>

Those are interpretations of what I am saying. The problem is that in
many ways Prana, and Mana, and so on, nurture the physical body that is
still seen as matter. And that is not what we are talking about.

Okay.

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God is lonely without His Sons, and they are lonely without Him.
</div>

And, of course, you all know that you&rsquo;re lonely. You&rsquo;re
miserable. [some audience laughter] I mean, you&rsquo;re not &hellip;
you know you&rsquo;re not experiencing your Joy, even though
you&rsquo;re generally happy.

Okay. Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God is lonely without His Sons, and they are lonely without Him. They
must learn to look upon the world as a means of healing the separation.
The Atonement is the guarantee that they will ultimately succeed.

They must learn to look upon the world as a means of healing the
separation.
</div>

Let that statement ring in your mind. I encourage you to write it down
and put it on your refrigerator to see for this coming week. The world
that you are living in is the means of healing the separation. It is the
place where you must bring your willingness to see God.

And it is a step that cannot be sidestepped. You cannot wake up without
blessing this world first. So stop calling it an illusion. Stop thinking
that there&rsquo;s some way to jump ahead, you know, and avoid looking at
anything and everything that you&rsquo;re experiencing with the desire to see
it through God&rsquo;s Eyes, so that it becomes blessed by your willingness to
return to your Original Function of being the Presence of Love without
ever again holding out for another option; a backup.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Raj.
</div>

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Is this what the Course means when it says that when &hellip; somewhere in
the Course I think I remember reading it said, &ldquo;when you look into the
eyes of your brother, you&rsquo;re looking into the eyes of your savior&rdquo;?
</div>

Looking into the eyes of your Brother and remembering God. Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Thank you very much.
</div>

You&rsquo;re welcome.

As I said earlier, the only thing that you are provided with that you
can attempt to distort into something else is the Presence of God. The
only material given to you to imagine that you can manipulate is the
Infinite Presence of God. So look at your brother; look at the leaf;
look at the tree; look at the water; look at the carpet; the glass,
whatever; the burned candle wick&ndash;with an interest and curiosity to
see God there, to have God revealed.

You know, you don&rsquo;t have an ugly material world to overcome. You
have a perception of the world that you need to abandon. You have a
perception of the Kingdom of Heaven that you need to abandon. And I will
keep saying that so that you will grasp that we&rsquo;re not talking
about a project of major proportions. It all lies in a change of mind; a
sudden shift of perception; a miracle. And the miracle isn&rsquo;t
complicated or difficult. It&rsquo;s as simple as a shift of attention.
Whether it happens to you tonight, or this week, or a month from now, it
doesn&rsquo;t change the fact that all we&rsquo;re talking about is
[snap of the fingers] a light bulb going on, an &ldquo;Aha!&rdquo; A
shift of perspective. Not an overcoming of a lie, of an illusion.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Does forgiveness aid us in this?
</div>

Well, what do you think?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Duhhhh. [laughing and audience laughter]
</div>

What are you doing when you look at the candle wick that is black
because it&rsquo;s already been lit before, and you&rsquo;re curious to
see God there, you&rsquo;re curious to see the Divinity that has to be
there? Aren&rsquo;t you abandoning whatever thoughts you have about it
being a material candle that probably was made for celebration of
Christmas; and the flame, you know, burns the wick but the wax makes the
wick last longer; and it&rsquo;s pretty; and but, you know, eventually
it&rsquo;s all going to burn down and disappear, deteriorate, and so on?
Aren&rsquo;t you forgiving it your perception that you&rsquo;re casting
upon it when you look at it and say, &ldquo;Wow. Maybe there&rsquo;s
actual Divine Meaning there; an experience, an inner Experience of Pure
Love. And I want to be undefended enough to feel the Love and to feel
what the Meaning of Love is right there in that particular
configuration.&rdquo; That is forgiving it your misperceptions, or
whatever your &hellip; whatever you think your current, correct
perceptions are. You see?

That&rsquo;s forgiveness. Being willing to abandon the perceptions you
would hold it to based upon your education, and all the peculiar little
beliefs that you have made commitment to that surround it. Yes.
Forgiveness is involved. And forgiveness is simply saying,
&ldquo;I&rsquo;d like to see What&rsquo;s Really There.&rdquo;
That&rsquo;s not hard. That&rsquo;s a pleasant occupation.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Just a little willingness.
</div> 

Yes. Not only a willingness to open up, but a willingness to conceive
the possibility that there&rsquo;s more there than matter, more there
than an illusion, and that What&rsquo;s There will speak of Wholeness,
and Bliss, and Fullness. Not just of Its Wholeness and Fullness and
Bliss, but yours as well. Yes.

Okay. This is a wonderful place to stop for the evening.

And it&rsquo;s good to be back together.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
It certainly is.
</div>

You are welcome.

[^1]: ACIM 2nd Edition: T2.III The Alter of God
[^2]: Students commenting or asking a question.

