---
title: Dec 12, 2002
ref: T2.IV Healing as Release from Fear
---

Good evening. It is good to have all of you here. And I welcome
everyone who is also listening on the Internet.

Last week we were talking about the Altar and that the problems that are
experienced are a result of having one&rsquo;s back turned to the Altar, and
becoming distracted by the glow, the Effulgence, that surrounds the
Altar. And then, because one is in a consciously disconnected &hellip; in a
conscious disconnectedness with his divinity, the Altar, there is an
experience of fear&ndash;an inevitable, unavoidable experience of fear,
anxiety, concern, vulnerability. And that one then begins to manipulate
the glow as a defense.

It is inevitable that all of you will find that as you turn back to the
Altar where the opportunity of becoming connected once again with the
very Essence of You, which is the flame, if you will, the illumination
of Love that&rsquo;s in the center of the Altar, that healing will be the
result. Healing will be what you will have increasing evidence of.

And so it&rsquo;s utterly natural that the next chapter is entitled:
*Healing as Release from Fear*[^1]

Remember that fear is occasioned by having consciously disconnected
yourself from your capital &ldquo;S&rdquo; Self, the Altar, which is the
Presence of God. And remember also, that to try to defend yourself, or
save yourself, from what you find yourself fearing, you must not try to
manipulate the glow more efficiently. You must turn around toward the
Altar. So let&rsquo;s keep this is mind as we proceed through this next
section.

We&rsquo;ll start right here:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Our emphasis is now on healing. The miracle is the means, the Atonement
is the principle, and healing is the result.

&hellip; Healing is the result.
</div>

Let&rsquo;s not forget that.

It&rsquo;s too easy to get into a metaphysical mishmash of confusion
where one can say, &ldquo;I am Waking up and I don&rsquo;t have evidence
of healing, but evidence of healing is not the point.&rdquo; It
isn&rsquo;t the point, but if you don&rsquo;t have the evidence of it,
you don&rsquo;t have evidence of Atonement.  Healing is the result.
Expect it. Demand it. And if you aren&rsquo;t experiencing it yet,
persist in turning back to the Altar, giving your attention to It so
that you might be infilled with the Love that you Are, that helps remind
you that it&rsquo;s senseless for you to be standing apart from It
observing It, and so that you might have a back-into-the-Love
experience, like a back-into-the-body experience.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To speak of &ldquo;a miracle of healing&rdquo; is to combine two orders
of reality inappropriately. Healing is not a miracle. The Atonement, or
the final miracle, is a remedy and any type of healing is a result. The
kind of error to which Atonement is applied is irrelevant. All healing
is essentially the release from fear.
</div>

Say that again:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
All healing is essentially the release from fear.
</div>

Again more slowly:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
All healing is essentially the release from fear.
</div>

Indeed. Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To undertake this you cannot be fearful yourself. You do not understand
healing because of your own fear.
</div>

Now you will not understand healing as long as you have your back to the
Altar.

But the moment you turn toward the Altar and you are not giving your
attention to your fearful establishment of defense, you will find
yourself feeling loved by the Light of the Altar, which is your
essential Being and is the Presence of God in you as You. And as that
Love infills you, fear will leave, and the evidence of fear will leave,
and perfection is what you will find yourself experiencing. And you
will understand what has happened.

But it is not as though the understanding is what brought about the
healing. And you will know that as well. You will know that the Love
you have been embraced by from the Altar, is the very Love that you Are.
And in the absence of any sense of separation from It, you will feel the
wholeness of your Being that has always been available for you to
experience. And what you will understand is Love is the answer. What you
will understand is that giving your attention to the Love that you Are,
the Altar in the center of you, rather than to that which you would
defend yourself against, demonstrates the fact that what you were afraid
of was an illusion. This I call a Knowing rather than an understanding.
It&rsquo;s the truth experienced by you consciously&ndash;not over and against
anything&ndash;but as the only thing that is Real. And right now when you are
feeling defended in any aspect, truth is still the only thing that is
Real about you.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
A major step in the Atonement plan is to undo error at all levels.
Sickness or &ldquo;not-right-mindedness&rdquo; is the result of level
confusion&hellip;
</div>

Let&rsquo;s stop right there.

Sickness has here been defined as &ldquo;not-right-mindedness.&rdquo; It
hasn&rsquo;t been defined as not-right-physicalness, or
not-right-relationships, or not-right-governmental-leaders. Sickness is
defined as &ldquo;not-right-mindedness.&rdquo;

Continue &hellip; *Sickness* &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Sickness or &ldquo;not-right-mindedness&rdquo; is the result of level
confusion, because it always entails the belief that what is amiss on
one level can adversely affect another.
</div>

You see, here it is in simple language. When you turn your back on the
Altar and you consciously dissociate yourself from your connection with
your Source, you become preoccupied, as I said, with the glow, with the
evidence of the Presence of the Altar. And fear is immediately present.

You don&rsquo;t know what it is you are fearful of, because you
don&rsquo;t know why you&rsquo;re afraid. You don&rsquo;t realize that
you&rsquo;re afraid because you&rsquo;ve turned your back on your very
Being. Now, you&rsquo;re looking at the effect of the Presence of the
Altar&ndash;the glow. And you decide to use the glow to defend yourself
with. And you can defend it with beauty, or you can defend it, as I said
last week, as an armament, as armor.

And what are you going to use to beautify or strengthen armament? To
beautify, to provide a beautiful façade that constitutes a distraction
from the essential You, or to strengthen a fortress? Well, the only
thing for you to do anything with, the only thing you are ever
confronted with is Reality&ndash;the Kingdom of Heaven&ndash;the
Infinite Manifestation of God. And so you will have to take some of the
Infinite Manifestation of God to strengthen your fortress. Or you will
have to take some of the Infinite Manifestation of God to create more
exquisite distracting beauty. In other words, you will start using
effects, manifestations, to strengthen the manifestation of your
defense; the evidence of your defense.

This is called level confusion. It&rsquo;s confusion because you have
two choices. The real choice of turning around and facing the Altar and
feeling into the Presence of Love that is at its center, which is God
Being all there is of you. Or, you have the option to keep your back to
It and use more of the manifestation of God to keep you safe against
other aspects of the infinite manifestation of God that you are going to
defend yourself against. You see what I&rsquo;m saying?

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
We have referred to miracles as the means of correcting level confusion,
for all mistakes must be corrected at the level on which they occur.
Only the mind is capable of error.
</div>

And what causes it to experience error is by giving its attention in the
wrong place.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The body can act wrongly only when it is responding to misthought.
</div>

And we&rsquo;ll say that the glow, the effulgence, around the Altar, can only
respond to, let us say, the manipulations that a Son of God applies to
it when the Son of God has forgotten that he is the Son of God and that
to use some part of God as a defense against some other part of God is
utter foolishness.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The body cannot create,&hellip;
</div> 

The infinite manifestation of God cannot create. Yes.

Let&rsquo;s not confine this just to what you call the physical body. It&rsquo;s to
all evidence of existence. All evidence of Being. Creation itself.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and the belief that it can, a fundamental error, produces all
physical symptoms. Physical illness represents a belief in magic. The
whole distortion that made magic rests on the belief that there is a
creative ability in matter which the mind cannot control.
</div>

Indeed.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Interesting.[^2]
</div>

When you look at Creation with your back to the Altar, and therefore
disconnected from the Father&rsquo;s Perspective about Creation, because
Creation is alive, because it is manifesting life, it appears to be able
to be aggressive, and therefore a formidable enemy to protect yourself
against. It doesn&rsquo;t just sit there in a static state, because it&rsquo;s the
evidence of God Himself. And so, one can come to the conclusion that the
foe is aggressive, intelligent, and able to direct its attention toward
you negatively&ndash;which is why, you assume, you must be ready to defend
yourself against this active, aggressive foe. And yet, the only Life the
foe seems to have is the Life that Creation Itself is perfectly
expressing in a God-directed way.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This error can take two forms; it can be believed that the mind can
miscreate in the body, or that the body can miscreate in the mind.
</div>

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When it is understood that the mind, the only level of creation, cannot
create beyond itself, neither type of confusion need occur.
</div> 

That is correct.

There isn&rsquo;t anything but Mind. And that is why I keep saying that
everything you are seeing is an Idea in the Mind of God. And that all
Ideas are perfectly tangible and experiential/experienceable to the Mind
which formed them. But just because they are tangible to the Mind that
forms them, doesn&rsquo;t mean they&rsquo;re matter. They are Pure Spirit.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
In that first form of error where the mind miscreates the body. Okay?
</div>

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I&rsquo;m not quite clear on the disease, or illness, or sickness, can be
created by &hellip; it &hellip; I mean for instance, if you worry, if there&rsquo;s
worry or defensiveness, or I mean I think everybody has had the
experience of making themselves sick with worry. So, is that not the
mind causing disturbance in the body?
</div>

Absolutely.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay. So what does this mean where it says the mind miscreates, the
first error is that the mind miscreates the body? Is that not a
miscreation in the body? For instance, you know, having an upsettedness
so bad that you create an ulcer, or a tumor, or something like that.
Isn&rsquo;t that a miscreation in the body?
</div>

Of course.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So I thought that that was an error. It says, &ldquo;The error can take two
forms. It can be believed that the mind can miscreate the body.&rdquo;
</div>

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So what you&rsquo;re saying is that that manifestation is an error? Or is it
saying &hellip;
</div>

Absolutely. It is not the truth. It is a misperception.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay. I see what you&rsquo;re saying. I see. So it actually is happening. But
it&rsquo;s because of an error that the mind is &hellip;
</div>

The mind actually &hellip; the mind believes it&rsquo;s actually happening.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
But in Reality, it&rsquo;s not?
</div>

That&rsquo;s correct. That is the only way you could experience an
instantaneous healing.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I see what you&rsquo;re saying. It is the recognition that it
doesn&rsquo;t exist.  That it&rsquo;s not happening.
</div>

The miracle is a sudden shift of perception.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Right.
</div>

One cannot possibly have a sudden shift of perception without seeing a
sudden shift in the manifestation of his experience; a shift that cannot
be accommodated by the laws of physics.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Well, so, in other words, you see what you believe.
</div>

Exactly.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Then that, then that to me, it&rsquo;s like then what is Reality?
</div>

Ah &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I mean if you see what you believe. [laughs]
</div>

That&rsquo;s the best question you could ask. And when you ask that question
and don&rsquo;t try to figure it out yourself, you are in effect turning
toward the Altar.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay. Okay. So, not having the answer to that question, that&rsquo;s okay? I
can relax? [laughter]
</div>

Not having the answer to that question can&rsquo;t help but trigger
curiosity the next time you experience a discomfort. It can&rsquo;t help
but trigger curiosity even if there is no complaint, because it means
that what you are experiencing right there as your body at this moment
is not the ultimate truth; is actually flawed. Your perception and
experience of it is flawed by the fact that you are not giving your
attention to it WITH GOD, so that God might reveal to you what He is
Being right there.

No miscreation ever becomes Real. You see what you believe, but the
corker of it is that you believe what you see. That locks you in until
you have the curiosity to see what it really Is. It will take something
to distract you from your conviction&ndash;from the conviction of your
belief. And what it will take is curiosity.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
May I? I&rsquo;d like to have one more quick [question]. So, say, I
haven&rsquo;t seen someone, a friend, in a long time. And they have
misperceived themselves as being ill. And I haven&rsquo;t heard about it
or anything. And then I see them and I go, &ldquo;Oh, my God! They
don&rsquo;t look well at all.&rdquo; That is obviously &hellip;
</div>

Thank God, I didn&rsquo;t do that with Lazarus. And he looked pretty bad.
[much audience laughter]

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So that &hellip; so what&rsquo;s happening there is it is a mutually-agreed-upon
concept. What&rsquo;s happening there.
</div>

Of course.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
In other words, I didn&rsquo;t know they were sick. So how did I see
them as sick? It was &hellip; there&rsquo;s a communication taking part
on a whole different &hellip; another level, other than speech. Or
it&rsquo;s like I didn&rsquo;t know they were going to be looking sick,
but as soon as I look at them, they don&rsquo;t even have to say
anything, and I&rsquo;m perceiving that. And that&rsquo;s because all
minds are joined? And &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and the fact that you already have mutually-agreed-upon
definitions to various kinds of appearances.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So, because they are feeling bad, they present this image, and then
automatically I buy into it?
</div>

Unfortunately, you do it automatically &hellip; yes. You have another
option. And that&rsquo;s what you all have to realize. [snaps fingers] On the
spot, you have another option &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay. Thank you.
</div> 

&hellip; so that you don&rsquo;t join them further in confirming what they are
believing about themselves.

And as long as you are joining with them and confirming it, you are
incapable of being an agent for change, or the precipitator of a
miracle.

And mind you, what you believe about them is whatever you believe about
yourself.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I was just reminded of a song. The title of it is, &ldquo;One Belief
Away.&rdquo; And that that&rsquo;s why a miracle is always spontaneous,
because if we realized it was the mutual… that this is where the mutual
agreement fits in. You know, when we release that belief. A simple
thought. We&rsquo;re one belief away from a miracle every moment. That
that&rsquo;s &hellip; the potential is so great every moment, that I
could think even in this room tonight.
</div>

Exactly &hellip; yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
To make this simple again. We have this whirlwind of body misperceiving
mind, mind misperceiving body, mutual agreements, ya diddy ya. And all
the time, all of Reality is in the Altar, and all I need to do is turn
and look at that. Simply.
</div>

Yes. And all the time, Reality, unperturbed by all of these imaginings,
awaits your discovery of It as it Is.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And then the activity of the Atonement becomes obvious to me by looking
at the Altar. The way to change the world becomes obvious to me simply
by looking at the Altar.
</div>

Yes. Because when you are looking at the Altar, its Illumination
illuminates you, and renders your committed beliefs invalid
effortlessly. And once they are seen as invalid, they are seen as not
useful. And none of you holds on to anything that you don&rsquo;t find
useful.  You don&rsquo;t even have to throw away an un-useful belief
once it is recognized to be not useful. It is abandoned effortlessly.

Be aware that you see what you believe. And so, you believe you&rsquo;re
vulnerable. And you get tense; experience chronic anxiety. You say that
your body tenses up, but you are tensing it up. That&rsquo;s where level
confusion comes in. You say, &ldquo;My body is doing something. It is
tensing up.&rdquo; But it is not. You, experiencing anxiety, tense your
body up to give it more density, to fool yourself into believing that it
is more impervious by virtue of the tension, the tightness. And then,
because you believe that your body is doing this, you then begin to
believe what you are seeing, and you see your body as an enemy which you
must bring under control. You see? Then you say, &ldquo;My body has an
actual disease, an ulcer, or a cancer.&rdquo; See, that&rsquo;s when you
are believing what you are seeing. And that will lock you in to the
experience of cancer and whatever your associated beliefs are about it.

I will tell you all something: You could have much more creative beliefs
about cancer. Your creative beliefs about cancer could involve the
restructuring and rebuilding of a lost limb. That will give you
something to contemplate. A different set of beliefs about it would have
a different effect.

So, it is dangerous to believe what you see, and say, &ldquo;My mind has
created an actual disease.&rdquo; It&rsquo;s still as illusory and
intangible as the confused thought that caused you to use your body in
that way. Do you see?

So indeed, you must dare to look at whatever the dis-ease is and
recognize, be willing to recognize that it is an illusion caused by
seeing what you have believed in your mind first, and then believing the
result, as though it&rsquo;s separate and different from your mind.
Because until you realize that only mind has the capacity to be
creative, you won&rsquo;t be able to get free of believing what
you&rsquo;re seeing and changing your mind by being willing to turn
around to the Altar and say, &ldquo;God, what is this really? What is
this thing I call &lsquo;body&rsquo; really? What is this thing I call
&lsquo;world and universe&rsquo; really?&rdquo; If it&rsquo;s the
effulgence, the manifestation of God being the Movement of Creation
constantly, then you are all in store for the wonderful experience of
having it revealed to you as what It really is.

If you realize that the cancer, or whatever it might be, whatever
dis-ease it might be, is nothing more than a mental distortion that was
caused by the adopting of certain ideas, and a commitment to those
ideas, you will then have the means of being miracle-ready, because you
won&rsquo;t fight the cancer, or the dis-ease. You will turn around to
God and say, &ldquo;What&rsquo;s the real Meaning?&rdquo; And you will
ask it with a conscious desire to have your belief replaced with the
conscious experience of what it really is, the direct experience of what
it really is. You see?

Yes &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay. The body is a very cherished and long-held idea, as are sicknesses
and the cause of sicknesses. Yet, the Bible talks of you walking along
with the multitudes and healing the people there.
</div> 

&hellip; instantaneously, by the way.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Instantaneously &hellip; so you are seeing, when you see them, you see what
you believe so you don&rsquo;t see them as sick. Yet somehow this belief is
able to shine from out of your Mind and into theirs so that they can
adopt the belief that you presented as well, and experience the
instantaneous healing.
</div>

There&rsquo;s one key point. They had to be willing. Miriam was not willing,
and so she remained lame.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So the healing was only to those who came to you for seeking healing?
</div>

Exactly.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And in doing so, it was easier for them to accept your Vision as their
own?
</div>

They had to have their eyes turned toward the Altar as well. Otherwise,
all I would be doing would be creating a further illusion.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So it was a &hellip; so the healings are choreographed.
</div>

You might say that they are choreographed by the desire and willingness
of the one wanting to be healed.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Which would be you as well as the blind man joined in that desire.
</div>

Indeed.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay.
</div>

Yes. As I&rsquo;ve said before, your good cannot be inflicted upon you.
And knowing that is a step of empowerment for each of you. You say,
&ldquo;Oh, my God! You mean it&rsquo;s all up to me?&rdquo; Well,
I&rsquo;ll tell you something. If it was up to someone else, you would
be at their mercy. What if they didn&rsquo;t choose to service you
today? &ldquo;Oh, I&rsquo;m busy today. Come back tomorrow . .  .&rdquo;
You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
But when you say, &ldquo;It&rsquo;s up to you,&rdquo; the You that you
Are is more than this body we think we are, which is part of the
problem, which is part of the wrong-mindedness.
</div>

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Because the you &hellip; the Me that I am or the I Am that I am is
inclusive of all of us here.
</div>

That is correct.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So Virginia&rsquo;s healing is also my healing.
</div>

Absolutely.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And I guess I can see that shining by the effect that her &hellip; that
witnessing her healing has upon me or anyone else&rsquo;s.
</div>

And even those who haven&rsquo;t seen it and don&rsquo;t know it has happened.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Because it&rsquo;ll be there when their awareness is ready to &hellip;
</div> 

Whether they like it or not, the density of the dream has lessened with
every little insight that anyone experiences. And any instantaneous
healing that occurs that cannot be attributed to any physical cause,
causes such a shift in the experience in the mind of the one who had
the healing, that it touches everyone else as well. And it becomes
easier for that to happen for everyone else. But it can&rsquo;t make anyone
accept the truth.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
The thing that was not necessarily confusing me, but, when I was
thinking about the correction of the mistake at the level that
it&rsquo;s occurring on, I was getting this little, uh, you know,
here&rsquo;s a chance to go back in and mess with it on my own, kind of
a thing, which instantly I knew that wasn&rsquo;t right. But that was
sort of what was going on. It&rsquo;s like is this an option for me to
go back in and mess with this stuff on my own? And now I see, from what
you were saying, that all that&rsquo;s gonna to be is the lesson. And I
take that mistake at the level it appears to be and that&rsquo;s what I
turn to God. That&rsquo;s when I turn to the Altar. And that&rsquo;s
just the lesson for today. All it is, is a trigger. The action is still
the same.
</div>

Yes. Let&rsquo;s say that with your back to the Altar, you have taken on
the persona of a warrior. And so you have your armor, and you have your
behavior as a warrior, as a retaliator against the attack coming from
the world. And then, you get a little bit of illumination, and you try
to incorporate it into your experience, and so you say, &ldquo;Ah! Maybe
the answer is not to be so warlike, but to express love. Ah &hellip;
okay, well then, I&rsquo;m going to dismantle my fortress. And I am
going to make it lovelier. I&rsquo;m going to make it less aggressive
appearing, more benign appearing, more attractive so people won&rsquo;t
be afraid of me. And I will behave in a new way that is loving, because
something in me tells me that loving kindness is more powerful than hate
and attack.&rdquo; And so this person makes the appearance more lovely,
but his back is still to the Altar. You see? It is ultimately still a
defense against being in one&rsquo;s right Mind. It&rsquo;s still
succumbing to the idea that the world separate from God actually does
exist, but needs to be treated in a new way.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Feng Shui &hellip;
</div>

Pardon?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Feng Shui, or whatever, you know. I mean redecorate your life.
</div>

Indeed. Indeed.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Make it more user-friendlier.
</div>

And so one joins with others in a new set of mutually-agreed-upon
definitions of behavior. And so you have, let us say, the United States,
or western civilization, and they join together on a basis of justice,
on a basis of respect for human rights. And they believe that their
integrity and their high-minded values are a more worthy power or force
in the world, which can cause those who don&rsquo;t yet understand it,
to knuckle under and get it, whether they&rsquo;ve asked for it or not.

Whereas, if they turned to the Altar they would be filled with the
experience of Love that would illuminate them and their behavior. And
there would be no occasion to force others to recognize Love. But by
being the Presence of Love, which has no ulterior motive to it, it would
tend to melt the fear that would cause terrorism, or that would cause
retaliation. The behavior would be different, but the actual healing
element would be the benign Love at the center of it, radiating out and
embracing everything without having a card up its sleeve, without having
an ulterior motive of coercion. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
The redecorating your life, and Feng Shui, and making everything nice
though seems &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; or redecorating the world according to high principles.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
But it seems better than overwhelming force using all our options. I
mean that&rsquo;s a long way from Feng Shui. That&rsquo;s &hellip; but
you&rsquo;re saying there&rsquo;s no difference between having an
overwhelming force using all our options, and just trying to tidy the
place up a little bit and make it a little more &hellip; same stuff.
</div>

Ignorance is ignorance, whether it is expressed beautifully or harshly.
Get this clear and you will attend to what will actually heal, what will
actually transform.

And you won&rsquo;t spontaneously give support to those who are
rearranging the world from &ldquo;high principles.&rdquo; Do you see
what I&rsquo;m saying? And without support they won&rsquo;t be able to
remain quote &ldquo;in power&rdquo; unquote.

Let&rsquo;s continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Only the mind can create because spirit has already been created, and
the body is a learning device of the mind. Learning devices are not
lessons in themselves.
</div>

I&rsquo;m going to repeat something here that I have said in the past.
Whenever you look at the Presence of God and say that it&rsquo;s
something other than the Presence of God, that particular Presence of
God becomes a learning-device for you. When you look at the Presence of
God and say, &ldquo;That&rsquo;s not the Presence of God,&rdquo; the
fact that it is the Presence of God and can&rsquo;t stop being the
Presence of God, will constitute, I&rsquo;m going to call, an
ever-present assertion in your experience of what it really Is, because
it can&rsquo;t stop being what it Is. And your denial of what it Is, is
going to cause a friction, you might say, a discomfort in you, because
you can&rsquo;t be out of your Mind and be comfortable. And so, whatever
of Reality you look at and you say, &ldquo;It&rsquo;s unreal,&rdquo;
will become a learning-tool; not because that&rsquo;s its actual
function, but because what it really Is cannot escape you.

And so, what it really Is will constantly nudge you, bug you, irritate
you&ndash;not because it&rsquo;s trying to be irritable&ndash;but
because it will constantly insist upon registering with you as what it
Is. And so, it will grab your attention, and hold your attention until
you bless it by saying, &ldquo;What are you really? In spite of what I
believe you are, what are you really?&rdquo; And once what it Is
registers with you, you experience it as it Is for what it Is, and it is
no longer a learning-tool, because there&rsquo;s no learning for you to
experience about it.

Here&rsquo;s another way of putting it. When you look at some aspect of
the Presence of God and say, &ldquo;It isn&rsquo;t God,&rdquo; you have
created ignorance of what it Is within yourself, and thereby an
opportunity to learn. And therefore, that thing becomes a
learning-device.

I want this brought out so that you don&rsquo;t demean your bodies by
calling it a learning-device that will disappear when you don&rsquo;t
need to learn anything anymore. It&rsquo;s a learning-device because it
isn&rsquo;t what you have determined it is, and what it Really Is, not
only awaits your discovery, but insists upon being recognized by you,
because It&rsquo;s God declaring Himself as Himself. And for you to
recognize it, is something you ultimately have no choice about, even
though you can resist recognizing it for what it Is for a period of time
through a private, personal use of will. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
The whole Holy Spirit is a learning-tool. I mean all of our Nature that
we&rsquo;re denying being held in trust, that whole thing is a
learning-tool?
</div>

Absolutely &hellip; absolutely.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay.
</div>

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Their purpose is merely to facilitate learning. The worst a faulty use
of a learning device can do is to fail to facilitate learning. It has no
power in itself to introduce actual learning errors. The body, if
properly understood, shares the invulnerability of the Atonement to
two-edged application.
</div>

Yes. In other words, it&rsquo;s not available to be used positively or
negatively, not truly.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is not because the body is a miracle, but because it is not
inherently open to misinterpretation.
</div>

It&rsquo;s utterly simple. It&rsquo;s utterly simple and doesn&rsquo;t require
interpretation. It only requires that you allow yourself to be present
with it with a willingness to experience it as it truly Is. In other
words, to experience the Presence of God there with the Meaning God is
expressing of Himself right there.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The body is merely part of your experience in the physical world. Its
abilities can be and frequently are overevaluated.
</div>

Well yes, they are because just like the glow, the effulgence around the
Altar, if you are distracted from the Altar, and all you can see is the
glow, then you give it much more value and much more meaning than it
actually has. All it is, is the glow. The glow indicating the Presence
of a source of Light. The Light is what&rsquo;s significant.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
However, it is almost impossible to deny its existence in this world.
Those who do so are engaging in a particularly unworthy form of denial.
The term &ldquo;unworthy&rdquo; here implies only that it is not necessary to
protect the mind by denying the unmindful.
</div>

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If one denies this unfortunate aspect of the mind&rsquo;s power, one is also
denying the power itself.
</div>

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
All material means that you accept as remedies for bodily ills are
restatements of magic principles.
</div>

And let&rsquo;s look at this another way. Let us say that with your back
to the Altar, you have built a fortress, and you have built it with rock
and mortar. And you find that it will not withstand the ravages of time,
much less a bold assault on it. And so, you decide that it needs to have
some steel reinforcement. In other words, the remedy for the weakness of
the structure is to be achieved by using a stronger physical structure
to support it. That&rsquo;s the use of magic. You try to correct the
problem by using a stronger belief in strength, rather than solving the
problem itself, which is that you have your back to the Altar.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is the first step in believing that the body makes its own illness.
It is a second misstep to heal it through non-creative agents. It does
not follow, however, that the use of such agents for corrective purposes
is evil.
</div>

Now this, the rest of this paragraph is extremely important. And I&rsquo;m
going to let you read it without interrupting.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Sometimes the illness has a sufficiently strong hold over the mind to
render a person temporarily inaccessible to the Atonement. In this case
it may be wise to utilize a compromise approach to mind and body, in
which something from the outside is temporarily given healing belief.
This is because the last thing that can help the non-right-minded, or
the sick, is an increase in fear. They are already in a fear-weakened
state. If they are prematurely exposed to a miracle, they may be
precipitated into panic. This is likely to occur when upside-down
perception has induced the belief that miracles are frightening.
</div> 

Indeed. This is perhaps one of the most practical statements you will
find anywhere in the Course. It&rsquo;s grounding, and means that no one has
to go off the deep end, no one has to actually face more danger or more
sense of danger than they can bear in order to experience healing, in
order to experience relief, in order to experience clarification.

Divine Love always appears to you in the language of your present
awareness. It does not require you to stand taller than you feel capable
of. The Holy Spirit, your divinity held in trust while you dally with
the ego, has the means of disclosing to you that which will reduce fear
and promote healing, even if it&rsquo;s not the ultimate truth. This is also
very important for you to understand.

There are times that I have been accused of not being consistent from a
conversation with one person at one time, and a conversation with
someone else at another time, apparently talking about the same subject.
But the fact is that the truth was presented to each of them in language
that allowed for the greatest inner movement to occur, because it didn&rsquo;t
raise their level of fear, but reduced it.

Let&rsquo;s continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The value of the Atonement does not lie in the manner in which it is
expressed. In fact, if it is used truly, it will inevitably be expressed
in whatever way is most helpful to the receiver. This means that a
miracle, to attain its full efficacy, must be expressed in a language
that the recipient can understand without fear.
</div>

I&rsquo;m going to stop you there.

And how are you going to know what that is, without going through a full
psychological evaluation of the person you&rsquo;re speaking to?
You&rsquo;re going to have to assume that you don&rsquo;t know. You are
going to have to even acknowledge that you don&rsquo;t know. And
you&rsquo;re going to have to be willing to allow for the fact that you
personally don&rsquo;t need to know, so that you might abandon all
attempts to know on your own, and take the time to become still within
yourself and ask, &ldquo;What do I need to say? What is the appropriate
response? What would You say, Father?&rdquo; Or ask the Holy Spirit, or
ask your Guide, or ask me. And then, because you don&rsquo;t know what
the appropriate response should be, you share the response you get.

And what you get in one circumstance might be, &ldquo;Sit down, close
your mouth, and be still for a moment,&rdquo; which might not sound
gentle, or loving, or pacifying. But for that individual it will be
perfect, because that individual is feeling very scattered, very
disconnected, very unstable, and needs direction at that very moment;
clear, simple direction to follow so that that individual can become
disentangled from all of the confusion. Oh, somebody else might look at
that and say, &ldquo;Oh, you&rsquo;re being very controlling! How can
that be healing?&rdquo; You see? When the fact is, that it&rsquo;s not
control at all. It&rsquo;s the presentation of that which meets the need
for someone who at the moment doesn&rsquo;t have the inner strength and
discipline to provide those simple directions for themselves.

So sometimes what you end up saying won&rsquo;t sound sweet. And other
times where the circumstances might seem to be quite the same and you
are dealing with an unruly individual, what you might find yourself
saying is, &ldquo;I love you,&rdquo; and walking up and giving a hug,
even though the individual has been displaying aggressive physical
characteristics. And that will be what helps that one to soften, settle
down, become quiet, and accomplish or end up doing what the words,
&ldquo;sit down, shut up&ldquo;. You see?

And this takes trust. But if you don&rsquo;t dare to inquire, if you
don&rsquo;t dare to turn to the Altar and make your connection there,
then firmness or softness expressed is just a manipulation arising out
of ignorance and one&rsquo;s best assumption of what will work. And
without the unction of Love, there will be no transformation. You will
not be a real agent for change.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This does not necessarily mean that this is the highest level of
communication of which he is capable. It does mean, however, that it is
the highest level of communication of which he is capable now. The whole
aim of the miracle is to raise the level of communication, not to lower
it by increasing fear.
</div>

Now watch the ego, because the ego will come in there and say,
&ldquo;Oh, here&rsquo;s a way to improve your presence while your back
is to the Altar.  Now you have a little tidbit of information. The whole
aim of the miracle is to raise the level of communication. Ah! Ah! I can
grasp that. We&rsquo;re going to raise the level of
communication.&rdquo; And now you set out to &ldquo;bless&rdquo; your
Brothers with your best idea of raising the level of communication, when
what will actually raise the level of communication is not the words
that you end up saying, but the Love from which those words arise. And
the only way Love will give rise to words, is if you have abandoned your
independence and turned toward the Altar and said, &ldquo;Help! What is
appropriate here? What fulfills Purpose? What will uncover God more
clearly right here?&rdquo;

The only way any of you can be effective teachers, effective agents for
change is when you realize that you &hellip; none of you have a personal
capacity on your own to do good, period. That as long as you claim the
right of independence from God, with the very strong belief that God has
created you to be independent, you&rsquo;re just going to be rearranging
the world. And you are going to further and extenuate the ignorance that
you&rsquo;re already all suffering from.

To be an effective teacher is to not attempt to be a teacher at all, but
to be a humble servant; from the ego&rsquo;s standpoint a humiliated
servant.  Humility is a state in which there is no tension. Humility is
a state in which the capacity to be forceful doesn&rsquo;t exist.
Humility is where willfulness has been laid aside for
willingness&ndash;willingness to say, &ldquo;Thy Will be done.&rdquo;
Why? Not so that you can be controlled, but so that in the absence of
your trying to be controlling, the divine way things work can register
with you, and you can be in harmony with it, and thus be a presence who
is constantly glorifying God by not glorifying anything else. In the
absence of the attempt to glorify anything else, God is the only thing
that can show up.

[gestures] Microphone &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
When we first started talking about the body, it&rsquo;s talking about the
beautiful temple, and then you talked about reinforcing the armament
with steel, and it&rsquo;s… is that the same activity, pretty much? I mean
whether we&rsquo;re making it a beautiful temple or whether we&rsquo;re reinforcing
it with steel, it&rsquo;s the same activity.
</div>

As long as it&rsquo;s being done with your back to the Altar, it can&rsquo;t be
anything else.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Exactly. So it&rsquo;s just sort of giving us different options of the way
that we turn our back to the Altar.
</div>

And in all cases, it will be a form of defense.

And if you get more holy and more spiritual so that you are creating a
beautiful temple, it&rsquo;s because you have found others to join with
in the belief that such activity will protect you against something. It
will protect you against violence. It will protect you against your ego.
By thinking loving thoughts and expressing loving thoughts, it will
protect you against the baser motives that are natural to human beings.
And it might even cause&hellip;

(I&rsquo;m sorry. This is me, Paul.)

&hellip; an evolutionary shift where mankind will start to move in a new
direction, physically, of course, as part of the physical universe, as
part of actual physical evolution. You see?

This is still occurring in the realm of ignorance. It&rsquo;s still
occurring without having even thought of, or brought up, the idea that
there is a relationship between you and God, and there is a connection
for you to be experiencing. And that when you turn around toward God and
open up to that experience, that that&rsquo;s going to bring you back
into your Right Mind, where evolutionary jumps are nonsense, and where
behaving nicely doesn&rsquo;t mean a heck of a lot more than behaving
badly, except that it&rsquo;s a little bit more comfortable for you in
your ignorance.

I will tell you something: If everyone on this planet managed to find a
mutually-agreed-upon way to work together harmoniously, everyone would
be very grateful. And if given the opportunity to have ten thousand
years to experience it, they would find ultimately that it would be an
empty experience, because the connection with the Altar would not have
occurred yet, even though everyone worked together beautifully. And
Awakening, the evidence of Atonement would still be awaiting everyone.

So at least tonight, everyone is a little bit clearer about what
Atonement isn&rsquo;t. And that&rsquo;s wonderful.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Raj, something that you don&rsquo;t &hellip; that has occurred to me about what
you&rsquo;re saying here this evening about what you did when you washed the
feet of [the disciples] indicating that we must be servants to each
other, that ego can&rsquo;t wash the feet of another with love.
</div>

No. But it can feign love and wash the feet of others.

Yes. You are right. You are here to serve others, but you won&rsquo;t be able
to serve each other transformationally until you yourselves ask God how
to serve each other transformationally. It&rsquo;s that simple.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
What I meant when I brought this up is the feeling that comes when I
turn to God and we do this together. It&rsquo;s the Love.
</div>

Indeed.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Of that expression, &ldquo;I&rsquo;m here to serve you.&rdquo;
</div>

That is truly benign, and therefore provides the best opportunity for
the one you are serving to feel non-threatened, and for his or her fear
to be reduced, and for confusion to fade, and for intelligence to come
to the fore, and for learning to actually occur. Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So it really becomes &ldquo;We,&rdquo; and no longer &ldquo;I&rdquo;?
</div>

Absolutely &hellip; yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
The experience of these shifts going on in me, and the balance of
&hellip; I can &hellip; the miracle scaring me. It&rsquo;s like right
over here. I mean it&rsquo;s like right at the edge of it. It&rsquo;s
like if I was any more miracle going on, it would frighten me. And yet I
can &hellip; you know. And I got it. I read in the book. And you say it.
And we share our experiences. I mean that&rsquo;s a lot &hellip; the
feelings that come with this Love that comes through us. Like Wow! It
catches your attention. Almost frightens you. I mean we&rsquo;re all
like right there on the edge of all we can stand.  Shifting as fast as
we can right now.
</div>

Indeed &hellip; indeed.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Judging everything less.
</div>

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
More and more looks at the Altar. It&rsquo;s working.

It takes trust. We can&rsquo;t do any of this without trust.
</div>

Right.

And trust comes from leaning into the miracle, and letting it transform
you, and convey your safety, so that you relax a little bit more.
There&rsquo;s a little less fear. And you can let in.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I have been privileged to be experiencing this of late.
</div> 

Indeed.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And it&rsquo;s just totally amazing!
</div>

Just don&rsquo;t be too amazed. That&rsquo;s a wonderful block to more.
Amazed, to stand in amazement is to say, in so many words, &ldquo;This
is unbelievable.&rdquo; And that&rsquo;s a nice way to keep the
unbelievable that&rsquo;s beyond what you&rsquo;ve experienced from
being let in and being believable.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
That brings up a good point, because it&rsquo;s the next level of recognition
of all these definitions or these habits of describing things.
</div>

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I mean that&rsquo;s a very, very good point. [laughs] Unbelievable. That
declares it exactly what it is, which is not something I want to
entertain.
</div>

Right. Yes. We will call it an evening. We actually got through a
whole section.

Healing as Release from Fear

And release from fear occurs as you turn away from that which is
fearsome and engages your ego responses, and turning toward the Altar,
so that you might reconnect with the Father&rsquo;s Love that&rsquo;s at
the center of the Altar being all there is of You. And by turning toward
It, you provide yourself with the opportunity of remembering your Self.
And in remembering your Self and embracing It, you become the Presence
that transforms, and you come back into your right Mind. Maybe only
little by little &hellip; but the only reason it&rsquo;s little by
little, is because more will scare you shitless! [chuckles]

I love you all.

[^1]: ACIM 2nd Edition: T2.IV Healing as Release from Fear
[^2]: Students commenting or asking a question.

