---
title: Dec 19, 2002
ref: T2.V The Function of the Miracle Worker
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone on the Internet as well.

And for those of you who might have just logged in, nothing is wrong
with your computer. The chat page is not functioning tonight. And the
picture is not functioning tonight, just the sound. So you won&rsquo;t
be able to distract yourselves with chatter. That is not the reason, the
reason is that Chris is not with us this evening, and he ordinarily
takes care of that.

Now, before we begin in the Text, I want to ask everyone a question.

How many of you think that you are comfortable tonight, and that you
feel safe tonight, and you feel strong tonight because at this very
moment you are engaged in participation in mutually-agreed-upon
definitions? And this doesn&rsquo;t apply to those of you who are
sitting here in this room, but to everyone who&rsquo;s listening in
their own homes. How many of you realize that you are feeling
comfortable, safe, and actually strong because at this very moment
you&rsquo;re engaged in mutually-agreed-upon definitions?

It&rsquo;s not a question I&rsquo;m going to ask you to respond to. But
for the most part, you go through your days, and perhaps you don&rsquo;t
even engage with others particularly, and you have a happy day. And
nothing in particular has happened that you could designate as a
practice of being involved in mutually-agreed-upon definitions.

Now this time I am going to ask you to give a show of hands. How many of
you have gone to another country where the people in that country were
not hostile, but they were not particularly friendly toward Americans,
and you felt in the minority? How many have had that experience? And was
it a comfortable experience? Right. No, it wasn&rsquo;t.  And why
wasn&rsquo;t it comfortable? Because, with those people, you
didn&rsquo;t have any mutually-agreed-upon definitions.

Now let&rsquo;s say &hellip; how many of you have had occasion to drive
through a neighborhood in a city, where the people living in that
neighborhood were not of the same race, or were living their life in a
style that was rough, where argumentativeness and just rough living, as
a general rule, were the style, and did you feel comfortable?

Again, it was because you didn&rsquo;t have any mutually-agreed-upon
definitions with those people. So you can see that when you&rsquo;re
feeling comfortable, and when you&rsquo;re feeling personally strong and
not vulnerable, it is for the most part because you are, you know
unconsciously without even thinking about it that you are with those who
are of like mind. And that really means they are those who are employing
the same definitions that you are. And so you are engaged in
mutually-agreed-upon definitions, even though until last June when we
started going through the Course, you probably never gave much thought
to the phrase, &ldquo;mutually-agreed-upon definitions,&rdquo; at all.

Now, how many of you have had the experience of having a circle of
friends, and for one reason or another, the friends began to see things
differently from you, and you find that the mutually-agreed-upon
definitions that made the relationship (the friendship) work, were
absent? How many of you have had that experience and found that your
sense of your worth was challenged? Or, your inclination to doubt
yourself came into play where you felt vulnerable, again where you were
in the minority and the majority&rsquo;s opinion was different, or even
at odds with yours?

In a situation like this, you find that your sense of your integrity had
been derived from something that wasn&rsquo;t solid, something that
wasn&rsquo;t stable, because it could be challenged by the whim or the
instability of those around you, and their inability to stay
consistently with the agreed-upon definitions that made the
relationships work. You see?

It&rsquo;s important to realize the degree to which you are
unconsciously governed by mutually-agreed-upon definitions. And
it&rsquo;s important for you to realize how much your sense of your own
integrity is derived from those mutually-agreed-upon definitions, even
though you think that your integrity is being felt by you because it is
something absolute, that has nothing to do with anyone else. When this
happens, you find that your sense of integrity does have something to do
with everyone else. As long as they&rsquo;re in agreement with your
having integrity, you feel good.  And if the majority think you lack
integrity, your feeling of inner stability and strength suffers. And
you&rsquo;re even willing to say, &ldquo;Well, maybe they&rsquo;re all
right. They can&rsquo;t all be wrong. Therefore, maybe I need to take
another look and see where I have fallen short.&rdquo; You see?

As long your experience of your integrity is being derived from
others&rsquo; agreements about your having integrity, you are not
experiencing your integrity. Because you do have Integrity that is
derived from the Source of your Being, which isn&rsquo;t everyone
else&rsquo;s current ego-perception of you.

And part of Waking up is getting in touch with that Integrity. And I
won&rsquo;t say that part of your getting in touch with that Integrity
is involved in turning around to the Altar. All of your getting in touch
with your experience of your Integrity has to do with turning again
within to the Altar within you, where the flame of your essential Being
is burning, because God has lit it and keeps it lit at every moment. And
that&rsquo;s why your Integrity is unchangeable. And that&rsquo;s where
you will find it not changing. And that&rsquo;s where you will find
yourself able to feel it without it being blown about, disturbed, by
everyone else&rsquo;s opinions, thoughts, comments, gossip to the
contrary. You see?

The hard part of Awakening is, and the hard part of facing the Truth is,
in realizing that you&rsquo;re getting your sense of your well-being
from the wrong places. But if you don&rsquo;t find out that you are
getting it from the wrong places, you will go along blindly and
unconscious of the Integrity of your Being that&rsquo;s unwavering and
that is constantly available to you to experience. You see?

You&rsquo;re not here, none of you are here, to please anyone else. You
could say you are here to please God, but it&rsquo;s more than that. You
are here to glorify God. You are here to represent God, because
that&rsquo;s your Function. You don&rsquo;t have a function to represent
yourself, because you don&rsquo;t have a self that isn&rsquo;t
God-derived. And as long as you think you do, you will constantly be in
a process of negotiating agreed-upon definitions, or new agreed-upon
definitions, with all of the other egos around you who are tending to
their own integrity that is self-derived, rather than God-derived.

Again, for clarity, self-derived integrity is other-derived integrity.
Understand that clearly, because without acknowledged agreement of
everyone else as to your integrity, you will find yourself at a loss,
without any sense of integrity. And you will scramble mightily to change
the minds of the others who express that you lack integrity. Or if you
don&rsquo;t choose to change their mind, you will choose to acquiesce to
them.  Just for peace. Just for the sake of not being in the middle of
turmoil.  And there&rsquo;s still no integrity there. It&rsquo;s misery.
Self-derived integrity is really other-derived integrity. And
you&rsquo;re the puppet of the mutual agreement of the majority. And
you&rsquo;re lucky if the majority thinks well of you. At least, humanly
speaking, you are lucky if the majority agree with you. You&rsquo;re
still up shit creek if the majority agree with you and that&rsquo;s why
you feel your integrity, because you&rsquo;re not in touch with the
essential substance and divinity of your Being that&rsquo;s unvarying
and unyielding.

Okay. Section Five:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Function of the Miracle Worker[^1]
</div>

Well, do you suppose that the miracle worker is, or can possibly be, one
who is preoccupied with mutually-agreed-upon definitions of his
integrity, or her integrity? I just want to throw that in there as we
enter into a consideration of the miracle worker. So let&rsquo;s start
here&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
May I ask a question?[^2]
</div>

You are the official &ldquo;question-asker.&rdquo; [audience laughter]

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Is that which is referred to as the Altar in the Course in Miracles,
that which is referred to as the thought-adjuster in The Urantia Book?
</div>

No, indeed. The Altar is the living, active Presence of God being all
there is of You. And God is not a thought-adjuster. If there is any
thought-adjuster, it&rsquo;s the Holy Spirit.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Or maybe my Guide?
</div>

Well, your Guide and the Holy Spirit have the same function. And
everyone who is Awake who works with you has that function&ndash;to help you
give permission to have a new idea that is a closer approximation of the
Truth.

A thought-adjuster cannot actually make an adjustment, like a
chiropractor. A thought-adjuster or the Holy Spirit, can make it
inviting to you, can make it desirable to you to make a shift, to allow
a shift, to abandon a bad definition, or to abandon your commitment to a
definition that doesn&rsquo;t embody Truth. But that&rsquo;s all a
thought-adjuster can do. It&rsquo;s like grease the way so that you
might even slip, but you can&rsquo;t be pushed. You can&rsquo;t be
coerced. You can&rsquo;t be forced. You can be finessed. Okay.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Function of the Miracle Worker

Before miracle workers are ready to undertake their function in this
world, it is essential that they fully understand the fear of release.
Otherwise &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; Oh, I wonder what that would be the release from? Might it be
the release from the mutually-agreed-upon definitions that gave you such
a sense of wonderful security and well-being? And why would you fear
that?  Why would you fear the release from that?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I&rsquo;m used to it. I&rsquo;m familiar with it.
</div>

Yes &hellip; but might you not also find yourself standing all alone?
With everybody else not understanding you?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Just me, the Altar, and my thought-adjuster?
</div>

That&rsquo;s a pretty scary thing when you have gathered your sense of
your well-being from everyone else&rsquo;s good thoughts about you,
because that&rsquo;s where your sense of strength had come from.

None of you are used to the experience of strength that is derived from
being perfectly in sync with the way things work, perfectly in sync with
the Father, perfectly in sync with that which is fundamentally divine
about you, in sync with your function.

So, it is a fearful thing to be released from everyone&rsquo;s well
wishes for you, everyone else&rsquo;s positive assessment of
you&ndash;positive because you weren&rsquo;t challenging their point of
view by functioning in any way unique, or in any way at odds with their
assessment of the behavior that makes them feel safe and strong. You
see?

You&rsquo;re afraid because you end up on the outside of the
group&ndash;ostracized&ndash;not included, in other words. In the
minority. And again, anyone who has been in the middle of a group and
you are in the minority, and that group does not think particularly
kindly of the group you are from, you feel alone, tiny, vulnerable. And
if, on top of this, they all speak a language you can&rsquo;t
understand, and they&rsquo;re all speaking that language around you,
it&rsquo;s easy to become paranoid and suspicious.  &ldquo;What are they
saying about me?&rdquo; Because &hellip; because your sense of your
security, safety, and inner strength and integrity, has been, in the
past derived from mutually-agreed-upon definitions that you were not out
of sync with.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Can I ask one question first?
</div>

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I just, the idea of being out of the group, out of sync, if that&rsquo;s
all you know, and you&rsquo;ve never experienced your Brothers being one
with you, and you with one with God, it&rsquo;s such a huge leap to go
from &hellip; even being afraid can be safer than making that leap,
because I don&rsquo;t know what that feels like. It&rsquo;s something
that I want. It&rsquo;s something I think about. But it&rsquo;s such an
incredible mindset different, that the fear almost looks good. Or you
can kind of cope with it.
</div>

Indeed, or in addition to abiding in the fear, ultimately deciding to
crawl back into the crab barrel and not even attempt the shift at
all&hellip; yes.

To be in sync with yourself is inseparable from an incredible, awesome
experience of Peace, invulnerability and joy. That&rsquo;s the fact. And so,
what do I do? I finesse all of you by letting you know that over and
over and over again, so that you might begin to consider the possibility
that what I&rsquo;m saying is true. And that therefore, there just might be
justification for letting go and doing this fearful thing.

That&rsquo;s why it says here:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Before miracle workers are ready to undertake their function in this
world, it is essential that they fully understand the fear of release.
</div>

And I think most everyone reads that and says, &ldquo;That&rsquo;s
interesting. What does it mean?&rdquo; And now you have a clearer idea
of what it can mean from your very own experience of being in the
minority, and having to, if you cannot leave that setting, having to
arrive at a point where regardless of what others are thinking,
regardless of whether they like you, you are valid and you are valuable.
You have to hang in there and shift, one way or another, to a level of
comfort within you that isn&rsquo;t derived from others whose minds you
can&rsquo;t change, because you don&rsquo;t speak their language, and
they don&rsquo;t want to converse with you in yours. You see?

Yes?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Raj, you&rsquo;ve said this in a very gentle way. But what I&rsquo;ve discovered is
what the fear is about goes even deeper than that. And that&rsquo;s the
surface, or the underlying, hostility that we&rsquo;re afraid of facing when
we don&rsquo;t agree with everyone&rsquo;s mutual definitions. Because when the boat
is rocked a little bit, out comes the hostility. I mean, it ripples
forth. And I think there is a &hellip; that has to learn to be dealt with
also.
</div>

Yes. That fear has to be dealt with.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Of what&rsquo;s underneath that. [laughs]
</div>

Of course, that&rsquo;s part of the already-established, mutually-agreed-upon
definitions. The first rule is don&rsquo;t rock the boat. Don&rsquo;t push my
limits. And underneath that is a sub-rule that says, if you do rock my
boat, you&rsquo;re going to pay for it.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
You&rsquo;re going to have hell to pay.
</div>

Exactly. And so that is a fear that has been trained into you by the
structure of the mutually-agreed-upon definitions. But we&rsquo;re not
talking about being so unique that you utterly don&rsquo;t fit in.

To be in touch with your Integrity, to have turned around to the Altar
to gather the facts of your Being from the flame in the middle of the
Altar that is the energy and Spirit of God being all there is of you
right now, you end up not so much going against the grain of the
mutually-agreed-upon definitions, you end up being in a way that
doesn&rsquo;t provide challenge, but does provide illumination of new
potentialities and new possibilities that can engage the attention of
those who are themselves bound by and miserable in the middle of the
mutually-agreed-upon definitions.

You will really only run into attack, let us say, retaliation, from
those who feel that they have some God-given right to exercise control
over you. But the majority of the people in your daily life do not feel
that they have that right, and so they look more with curiosity, than
anything else. It&rsquo;s those who, well, are family &hellip; who think
they are living in agreed-upon definitions of what a family is, and what
rights family members have, et cetera, who will perhaps attempt to exert
authority against you. Or it could be an employer.

But truly, the only place you&rsquo;re going to run into retaliation is
from those who feel they have a right to tell you how to be. And
that&rsquo;s not the majority of the world. And for the majority of the
world, your being in sync with your divine function will be more a
presence of interesting potentials than threat to those you engage with.
In the first place, you will be being in a more benign way, because you
aren&rsquo;t trying to cram your particular new point of view down their
throats. Because that&rsquo;s not what you do when you&rsquo;re in touch
with your function.

Continue &hellip; start at the beginning of the first sentence.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Before miracle workers are ready to undertake their function in this
world, it is essential that they fully understand the fear of release.
Otherwise they may unwittingly foster the belief that release is
imprisonment, a belief that is already very prevalent.
</div>

And let me just say that when you are ostracized and standing alone,
that is like being imprisoned.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I remember you using the phrase, &ldquo;in the aloneness of your Being.&rdquo; Now
it&rsquo;s more clear what you were talking about.
</div>

And in the aloneness of your Being&ndash;of your Being with a capital
&ldquo;B&rdquo;&ndash;you are &hellip; you experience the All-Oneness of
It, the Wholeness of It, when you don&rsquo;t resist It.

Hunger for appreciation and acknowledgement from others, keeps you
small, because feeling appreciated is something you cannot have without
everyone else giving it to you. To feel loved is something you
can&rsquo;t have without everyone else giving it to you. And yet, you
are the expression at this moment and every moment, the ongoing,
uninterrupted, brand-new expression of God, which is an expression of
Love. Your very Being is Love. Your very Being is imbued with the Love
the Father is imbuing it with. And literally, the only real experience
you have available to you is the experience of being Loved and of Being
Love. Of being Loved as well as Being Love.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This misperception arises in turn from the belief that harm can be
limited to the body. That is because of the underlying fear that the
mind can hurt itself. None of these errors is meaningful, because the
miscreations of the mind do not really exist. This recognition &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; are not the mutually-agreed-upon definitions, miscreations of the
mind?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yes.
</div>

Yes. Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This recognition is a far better protective device than any form of
level confusion, because it introduces correction at the level of the
error.
</div>

Indeed.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is essential to remember that only the mind &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; where it introduces correction at the level of the error.

What I have said to you tonight brings your attention to your
inclination to address the problem of your divinity by either not
embracing and embodying it and thus breaking the trust of the
mutually-agreed-upon definitions, or trying to change everyone
else&rsquo;s mind so that they can recognize, let us say, your divinity.
That is not where you address the problem. You see? That doesn&rsquo;t
introduce correction where the problem lies.

You introduce correction at that point where you are seeking your
comfort, and security, and safety, and integrity from everyone else.
That&rsquo;s where the mistake is made. And that&rsquo;s where the
correction must be made. And so the correction involves not giving a
damn what everyone else thinks. Not as an opposition to them, but as a
relinquishment of faith in their perspective. A relinquishment of your
faith in their ability to give you peace, safety, security, and
integrity&hellip; and turning around to the Altar.

Go on &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is essential to remember that only the mind can create, and that
correction belongs at the thought level.
</div>

At the thought level and the result of thought&ndash;which is a
determination, a decision, and then a commitment to the decision. But
again, the correction has to be introduced where the mistake is made.
And the mistake is made at the level of thought.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To amplify an earlier statement, spirit is already perfect and therefore
does not require correction.
</div>

The flame in the Altar is already perfect. And the flame in the Altar is
You. The flame in the Altar is God being You there. The flame in the
Altar is God being God there.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
If I may &hellip; then I&rsquo;m seeing that the Altar is more of
what&rsquo;s referred to as survival in The Urantia Book.
</div>

No. Survival &hellip; survival means nothing without its opposite. And the
Altar is Life Itself&ndash;immutable, unalterable Life without an opposite.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The body does not exist except as a learning device for the mind. This
learning device is not subject to errors of its own, because it cannot
create. It is obvious, then, that inducing the mind to give up its
miscreations is the only application of creative ability that is truly
meaningful.
</div>

Wow &hellip; yes!

It is obvious then that finessing the mind to give up its miscreations
is the only application of creative ability that is truly meaningful.
It&rsquo;s the only one that will work. Inducing the mind is to present
an idea so attractive, that the mind it is addressed to, finds it almost
impossible not to explore.

But the impulse to explore it, the intent to explore it, has to come to
you for your reasons. Else it&rsquo;s not you taking the step,
it&rsquo;s not you making the shift. It&rsquo;s someone else coming up
behind you and picking you up and moving you to a new spot. And if you
didn&rsquo;t end up at that new spot willingly, you will get back to the
old spot as quickly as you can with great, self-righteous indignation!

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Can you make those shifts of correction within the context of the ego?
Or do you have to go face the Altar, as you say, and do it from the Holy
Spirit?
</div>

Let me put it this way: When you are induced by an utterly brilliant
idea that gets your attention, and you give your attention to it, you
are turning toward the Altar. When you turn, when you give your
attention with intrigue toward a new idea that is at odds with the
status quo, the mutually-agreed-upon definitions, you are turning away
from them and turning toward the Altar.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Is that my agenda, or the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s agenda?
</div>

It&rsquo;s the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s agenda to make turning around inviting.

It&rsquo;s your agenda to turn around and explore/fulfill your curiosity.

And you must realize that no matter how much you might identify yourself
as your ego, you are not the ego-sense of yourself that you have so
strongly identified with. You&rsquo;ve never stopped being the Presence
of God, the Christ. And so That which finds Itself curious to give Its
attention to the Truth and fulfill Its curiosity is the divine one that
you Are, already in the process of coming Home by having been
successfully enticed into looking at things a different way, having been
finessed into abandoning your commitment to the way you&rsquo;ve always
seen things. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yeah. And what I&rsquo;m learning now is when you &hellip; to really change your
perceptions of someone is actually to see them without error. I mean, no
penalty, no foul. It&rsquo;s not like I see them doing something wrong, and
then forgiving them. It&rsquo;s like you just don&rsquo;t see it.
</div>

That&rsquo;s correct.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
It looks like here&rsquo;s the first place where you introduced the idea, &ldquo;the
body does not exist.&rdquo; Would you insert the phrase, &ldquo;as you perceive it,&rdquo;
after that?
</div>

Actually it has been in the previous couple of sections.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Oh, I missed that. But it&rsquo;s standing out right here.
</div>

But &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The body does not exist except as a learning device for the mind.
</div>

I brought out that the body is like the effulgence, or glow, around the
Altar.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I missed that.
</div>

And when one turns one&rsquo;s back on the Altar, and one does not see
that the glow is from the Altar, and one denies Its divinity, that very
thing becomes a learning-device.

Whatever of the infinite Presence of God you are denying becomes a
learning-device. Because it becomes the specific opportunity to remember
God. And once you have remembered God and seen it for what It truly Is,
it ceases to be a learning-device, because you aren&rsquo;t suffering
from ignorance needing to be corrected.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Magic is the mindless or the miscreative use of mind. Physical
medications are forms of &ldquo;spells,&rdquo; but if you are afraid to
use the mind to heal, you should not attempt to do so. The very fact
that you are afraid makes your mind vulnerable to miscreation. You are
therefore likely to misunderstand any healing that might occur, and
because egocentricity and fear usually occur together, you may be unable
to accept the real Source of the healing. Under these conditions, it is
safer for you to rely temporarily on physical healing devices, because
you cannot misperceive them as your own creations. As long as your sense
of vulnerability persists, you should not attempt to perform miracles.
</div>

Whew! The scariest part of a miracle is that it proves there is a
God&ndash;something none of you really wants to find out for sure.
It&rsquo;s much easier to believe that there is a God, and hope there is
a God, and give lip-service to this God that you believe in and have
hope about, than it is to have the actual Experience of God &hellip; for
any of a number of reasons, but the most significant reason you
don&rsquo;t want to know that there really is a God is because you will
know unequivocally that you&rsquo;re not in charge: That you have no
authority of your own&hellip; that you therefore, do not have any of the
characteristics of strength and integrity that have been defined by the
mutually-agreed-upon definitions, and to which you have brought full
commitment.

You are afraid that if there really is a God, and you are incapable of
defending yourself because you have no authority, that you will die,
because survival requires you to be able to defend yourself.

And the problem here is that you are looking at the approach to God as
though you really are the mortal you believe you are. And as the one who
participated in &ldquo;The Fall&rdquo; by saying, &ldquo;My will be
done, not Thine,&rdquo; and therefore, there will be punishment.

But all of this conflicted, penalty-ridden fear of facing God arises out
of the fact that when you are not experiencing God, all that God Is will
appear to be polarized, therefore, capable of providing you with some
good, but also with a lot of bad&ndash;omnipotent bad.

When the fact is that when you yield to God, and you dare to let God to
be glorified in you by not presenting any other presence than what God
is Being there, there will be no experience of vulnerability, no
experience of judgment, no experience of penalty having to be paid.

The only reason the approach to God appears to be fraught with distress
is because you are still looking through your distress glasses. Because
you&rsquo;re still identified with your commitment to the
mutually-agreed-upon definitions, and you&rsquo;re still committed to
the value that everyone around you that you are joined in these
mutually-agreed-upon definitions with, are what provide you with your
strength and integrity. You have more trust in everyone else&rsquo;s
opinions, than you do risking the chance that maybe there really is a
God. And this God is Love. And you are His Offspring. You are Him. You
are God Expressed and therefore, incapable of experiencing polarity. And
therefore, safe. And therefore, Pure. And therefore, the Presence of
Integrity. And therefore, invulnerable, because there is no other
presence.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I have already said that miracles are expressions of miracle-mindedness,
and miracle-mindedness means right-mindedness. The right-minded neither
exalt nor &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and right-mindedness is the opposite of illness/sickness, because
sickness is nothing more than wrong-mindedness.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The right-minded neither exalt nor depreciate the mind of the miracle
worker or the miracle receiver. However, as a correction, the miracle
need not await the right-mindedness of the receiver. In fact, its
purpose is to restore him to his right mind. It is essential, however,
that the miracle worker be in his right mind, however briefly, or he
will be unable to re-establish right-mindedness in someone else.
</div>

So, the miracle worker is not an authorizer of the miracle. Where did I
see that?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is essential, however, that the miracle worker be in his right mind,
however briefly, &hellip;

[repeats] &hellip; In his right Mind, however briefly &hellip;

&hellip; or he will be unable to re-establish right-mindedness in someone
else.
</div>

What I mean to say is, that the only one who would like to be able to
say to this disease or that disease, &ldquo;Get thee hence,&rdquo; and
have it be gone, is an ego. Only an ego wants the power to banish
disease. Wanting to be a miracle worker and to be able to banish disease
is not an expression of right-mindedness. It&rsquo;s an expression of
willfulness for excellent reasons. And of course, the meaning of the
word &ldquo;excellent reason&rdquo; is arrived at through
mutually-agreed-upon definitions.

The miracle happens when the miracle worker, who happens to just be a
guy like you, or a gal like you, happens to get out of the way for a
moment. Happens to be in a place where he, or she, isn&rsquo;t
reaffirming the mutually-agreed-upon definitions, and there is an
opportunity for the Holy Spirit to connect. And then, if you bring your
attention to it, to the connection, and allow the connection to occur,
that&rsquo;s the meaning of turning toward the Altar. And then,
God&rsquo;s Love, through the Holy Spirit, and through you, blesses
someone else, and healing occurs.

And then if that moment of right-mindedness suddenly abruptly stops, and
you&rsquo;re just like you, and you, and you, again, you say, &ldquo;My
God! What happened? It&rsquo;s a miracle!&rdquo; And what you mean is
that something has happened that you don&rsquo;t understand the
happening of. And you stand as much in awe of it as everyone else. Do
you see what I&rsquo;m saying?

The miracle worker is what you end up Being when you&rsquo;ve allowed
yourself to be out of the way, not trying to be anything in particular.
And in that moment of the absence of assertive self-will, the Father can
be glorified in you, because you&rsquo;re not interfering with your real
function, which is to glorify God, to let God be all that is there,
where you see and experience yourself.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So for that one moment you see that person as Perfect and Whole as God
created him.
</div>

Indeed.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And in that moment in your right-mindedness, he gets that message, he
connects with that, and he sees himself as Perfect and Whole. And
because that happens, you can only receive what you give, you see
yourself as Perfect and Whole.
</div>

Indeed &hellip; indeed &hellip; exactly.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The healer who relies on his own readiness is endangering his
understanding.
</div>

Let that sink in.

With what measuring stick are you going to assess your readiness? It
isn&rsquo;t about you being ready to be a healer. It&rsquo;s more about
you letting God use you, or the Holy Spirit to use you. Your readiness
is epitomized in the phrase, &ldquo;Thy Will be done.&rdquo; Readiness
is when there is enough humility to get out of the way as a healer. You
see?

Your willfulness is the opaqueness that doesn&rsquo;t let God through. The
more humility infuses itself into you, and the more allowing you are of
it, the less opaque your mind becomes and the more Light that can shine
through.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You are perfectly safe as long as you are completely unconcerned about
your readiness, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; not mostly unconcerned. Not unconcerned a little bit. Completely
unconcerned. It&rsquo;s irrelevant.

Start the sentence again.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You are perfectly safe as long as you are completely unconcerned about
your readiness, but maintain a consistent trust in mine.
</div>

Now this is what Paul does every time he sits down for a Gathering like
this. Sometimes we can&rsquo;t start for quite a while because
he&rsquo;s concerned about his readiness. He has himself on his mind. He
knows that he must get past that, and that is what he attends to by
giving his attention more fully to me and entrusting himself to me.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If your miracle working inclinations are not functioning properly, it is
always because fear has intruded on your right-mindedness and has turned
it upside down. All forms of not-right-mindedness are the result of
refusal to accept the Atonement for yourself.
</div>

And what is the Atonement?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
An Act of Love.
</div>

Yes &hellip; the Act of Love.

And as we&rsquo;ve said, the only way an act of Love can occur is when
you desire to have the Father&rsquo;s Love come through you. Not through
you as you, but through you as the Father&rsquo;s Love still &hellip;
and extending it.  Especially extending it to one who seems to you (your
ego-sense) to be unworthy of it. And in that willingness, that one is
blessed, and you are blessed.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you do accept it, you are in a position to recognize that those who
need healing are simply those who have not realized that
right-mindedness is healing.

[repeats] &hellip;is healing.
</div>

Yes. Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The sole responsibility of the miracle worker is to accept the Atonement
for himself.
</div>

Now this can be a little tricky, because the only way you can accept the
Atonement for yourself is to extend it to your Brother. You cannot sit
in a room all by yourself and be bathed in the Light of God so that you,
and you alone, can soak up the rays and be blessed and tanned
beautifully.

The way you receive the Atonement is by finding an object of your
affection, because it&rsquo;s your function to be the Presence of Love,
and then say, &ldquo;Father, show this one to me &hellip; let me see
Your Vision.  Infill me with the True perception of him or her, so that
I might always behave in a way that honors his divinity. And so that I
might never again behave toward him, or her, on the basis of
mutually-agreed-upon definitions, or the avoidance of penalties for
breaking those definitions.&rdquo;

Continue &hellip;

Our official questioner has a question. [audience laughter]

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Why did you spend a lot of time alone in the wilderness and up on the
mountains and in Gethsemane? Why did you spend so much time alone when
you were here?
</div>

If you want to look at it in terms of time, out of thirty-three years,
those accounted for a very small part of my life.

But you know what? You do have to go on fasts. You have to be willing to
fast from the mutually-agreed-upon definitions. And is that not a
withdrawal from the group that you have chosen to be identified with who
has those mutually-agreed-upon definitions? Does not Paul, when he sits
down at the beginning of each Gathering, in effect, withdraw from you?

What that actually means is that he withdraws from being concerned about
what you might think about him if he turns toward the Altar.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
We have to go through the aloneness of our Being to get to that place
where we join with.
</div>

Where you&rsquo;re already One with everything.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yeah.
</div>

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yeah. Thank you.

[in the background] Even you had to do that.
</div>

That is correct.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This means you recognize that mind is the only creative level, and that
its errors are healed by the Atonement. Once you accept this, your mind
can only heal. By denying your mind any destructive potential and
reinstating its purely constructive powers, you place yourself in a
position to undo the level confusion of others. The message you then
give to them is the truth that their minds are similarly constructive,
and their miscreations cannot hurt them. By affirming this you release
the mind from over evaluating its own learning device, and restore the
mind to its true position as the learner.
</div>

If you travel a lot and take a lot of vacations, and in the process of
doing this, you find a hideaway that is exquisite and something that no
one should miss, you do not hesitate to tell your friends about it. And
they cannot help but see the light in you of your enthusiasm, and feel
the invitation&ndash;not your invitation&ndash;but the invitation of the
beauty and the exquisiteness and the wonderfulness of this place.

When you abandon the mutually-agreed-upon definitions because you have
become curious to look in a new direction that you have been finessed
into checking out, and you abandon the mutually-agreed-upon definitions,
and have a new experience, as I&rsquo;ve said before, you can&rsquo;t
help but share it. But more than anything, you realize that you&rsquo;ve
experienced a bit of the Kingdom of Heaven without having done anything
to deserve it.  Discovery does not happen as the result of personal
effort. It only happens because you are paying attention, and you are
willing to look where you haven&rsquo;t looked before.

So, if you have a taste of the Kingdom of Heaven and it causes you to
have a whole new perspective, and you didn&rsquo;t deserve it, and the
experience has shown you that it takes no skill to have the experience,
only a certain undefendedness, no matter what a terrible person you were
before it happened, it becomes obvious to you that your friend, your
neighbor, your sister, your mother, your son, whoever, can have the same
experience, too. Because it doesn&rsquo;t have to be deserved.
Absolutely everyone is susceptible to this kind of experience without
qualifications.

Wow! Now, all of a sudden you&rsquo;re seeing them in a new way.
You&rsquo;re seeing that they don&rsquo;t have to measure up to some
standard in order to have insight. And that, because you had the
experience, and therefore were evidently deserving of having the
experience, then, in spite of the way you&rsquo;ve been looking at your
neighbor, and how negatively you&rsquo;ve been judging him or her to be,
they deserve it, too. And in that clarification, you find that
you&rsquo;ve abandoned your &ldquo;just&rdquo; judgment.  Because
suddenly, you realize that your judgment meant nothing. And now you can
stand with them on their behalf without even saying a word, you can
stand with them on behalf of their having the very same wonderful
revelation, because you had it without deserving it, and they deserve to
have it without deserving it also. And there is Love in you that you
embrace them with. You see?

The message you then give to them is the truth that their minds are
similarly constructive. You know, the bitch or bastard that you saw a
few minutes ago, now you&rsquo;re saying, &ldquo;Their mind is similarly
constructive, like mine is!&rdquo; You see? And there&rsquo;s joy!

And I&rsquo;ll tell you, your presence is inspiring to everyone, because
you are more benign yourself. You can&rsquo;t help but embrace them with
the Love that you found yourself embraced by. You have a vision about
them that they might not be having about themselves.

So this section is called:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Function of the Miracle Worker
</div>

And we&rsquo;ve all found out that the miracle worker isn&rsquo;t you.
But that it&rsquo;s who you end up Being when you don&rsquo;t have
yourself on your mind as a something at all. And who you turn out to be,
the miracle worker, is that because you have dared, with help to abandon
your fear of facing God, abandoning your fear of no longer committing to
the mutually-agreed-upon definitions. You have abandoned your allegiance
to everyone else&rsquo;s opinion of you, so that you might stand alone
in the void. Because in the void, you can be curious to know what
everything Is separate and apart from the mess of existence in the
middle of mutually-agreed-upon definitions.

Now, this is not something other-worldly. And it&rsquo;s not something
impossible. It&rsquo;s not something difficult. Every time any of you
ask me a question, Paul turns toward me&ndash;not his own best
judgments&ndash;and listens, and hears, and shares the answer.
That&rsquo;s all the more other-worldly it is.

And every time any one of you simply chooses to become still within
yourself and say, &ldquo;Father, help me to see the truth,&rdquo; you
are turning toward the Altar. You are relinquishing your allegiance to
all of the agreed-upon definitions that have been given to everything,
so that another way of seeing this might be presented to you&ndash;not
be figured out by you. And the answer &hellip; the answers come. They
come every day.  Most of the time you don&rsquo;t hear them, but
sometimes you do. And that&rsquo;s all the more other-worldly it is.
That&rsquo;s all the more difficult it is.

And the point is, to do this and do it, and do it, and do it more
frequently, more frequently, more frequently, until you&rsquo;re not
doing anything else. So that you might always experience being in
perfect harmony with It. Ultimately, the experience of being perfectly
in harmony with It will, for lack of better words, go through a blur.
The distinction between you cooperating with It as something different
from you that you&rsquo;re cooperating with, will blur, and you will
experience yourself as It--not as an observer of It.

So, it&rsquo;s a wonderful adventure. And it&rsquo;s not complicated.
And it only has to do with your bringing your willingness to invite a
new Perspective that you haven&rsquo;t created, and that others around
you who are still dreaming dreams haven&rsquo;t created for you either.

It can come as easily as your saying throughout the day, &ldquo;What
should I do now that will be in harmony with the Father&rsquo;s Will for
me?&rdquo;

[gives example]

<div markdown="1" class="well example">
It&rsquo;s time to eat. What&rsquo;s the most appropriate thing for me to do
regarding eating?

> *Oh, I&rsquo;m to go out to dinner tonight?*

Okay. What place best expresses fulfillment of God&rsquo;s Purpose?

> *A French restaurant?*

But that&rsquo;s not reasonable. My wallet says no.

> *Mmm. You say do it anyway?*

Is this really my Guide, or is this my ego?

> *Oh. You&rsquo;re my Guide, and I am hearing you clearly.*

But it doesn&rsquo;t make sense &hellip;

> *Oh, it&rsquo;s because Sense, what fulfills the Father&rsquo;s Purpose, goes beyond*
> *my definition of what makes sense. And so you&rsquo;re encouraging me to risk*
> *the chance that being unwise, as far as I&rsquo;m concerned, and going to a*
> *restaurant that costs more than I can afford might actually be*
> *appropriate? You are &hellip; You are saying that.*

</div>

You see? You keep inquiring. And you must always know that you can
refuse, if what you&rsquo;re told stretches you too much. You can refuse. You
can be stubborn and say, &ldquo;Explain more.&rdquo; But the point is to be
constantly turned toward the Altar, constantly wanting to know what
fulfills the Father&rsquo;s Purpose here?

<div markdown="1" class="well example">
*Oh, you say I am worth even more than the French restaurant. But it
fulfills the Father&rsquo;s Purpose for it to just be the French restaurant
tonight. You say this isn&rsquo;t going to put me into a financial jeopardy?*

Oh.

*You say that I am hearing you perfectly clearly, and it fulfills
Purpose for me to go out to eat tonight to the French restaurant, and
**enjoy** myself?*

Okay.
</div>

Now, I&rsquo;m not going to go on, and on, because, of course, now one has to
get ready, and get into the car, and say:

<div markdown="1" class="well example">
Okay. Shall I take the freeway? Or shall I &hellip; which way shall I go?
</div>

So that you are *staying in touch* the whole way.

Now it takes trust. And the blessing is greater than anything you can
imagine. And I will tell you this: When you listen deeply and in effect
turn toward the Altar, your coming into harmony with the Father&rsquo;s
Will, will not bring any of you to any kind of ruin, financial or
otherwise.  And by God, be glad that Guidance is given you that
doesn&rsquo;t hold you to your poor, teeny thought-models of what is
acceptable and appropriate for someone of your station, or status, or
financial makeup.

Next Thursday is the day after Christmas, and we will not have a
Gathering next Thursday evening. We will resume the follow Thursday; the
first Thursday of what you call a &ldquo;new year.&rdquo; Same old
Eternity.  [audience laughter]

And I really encourage all of you, during the next two weeks, to try to
find some delight in being open to that which hasn&rsquo;t been included
in the mutually-agreed-upon definitions that you&rsquo;ve been binding
yourselves by, by withdrawing your allegiance to them enough to have
some curiosity to say, &ldquo;Father, I really would like to experience
the truth.&rdquo; And it doesn&rsquo;t have to be ultimate truth. It can
be, &ldquo;What&rsquo;s the truth here?  How can I be utterly on the
beam about which blouse to wear?&rdquo; You see?  Ultimacy can be found
in simplicity. Don&rsquo;t make it complicated for yourselves.

Over the next two weeks, dare to enjoy all of the opportunities you will
be provided with in order for you to be miracle-ready. Because I will
tell you, that those are the things that are being prepared for you
every moment, of every day, of every year. And to be miracle-ready means
to be willing in the most unexpected places to extend Love.

Miracles, the revelation of what is Real, are constantly being presented
to you by the experience of Being Itself, because Being is God in
Action. But with the allegiances you have to your mutually-agreed-upon
definitions, you usually only leave a little crack for the miracle to
come through.

So, this Christmas, don&rsquo;t just let a baby through. Don&rsquo;t
just let a little miracle through. You see? Be willing to let big
miracles happen, because big miracles are being given. Don&rsquo;t be
stingy this Christmas.  Don&rsquo;t be teeny this Christmas. Don&rsquo;t
let through just a little bit of Love. Ask for Love in Its fullness to
find an avenue through you.

I love you.

Okay.

[^1]: T2.V The Function of the Miracle Worker
[^2]: Students commenting or asking a question.

