---
title: About Raj
---

## About Raj by Raj
{: .disable-paragraph-marker}

HISTORICALLY SPEAKING, I AM THE ONE WHO WAS KNOWN AS JESUS.  When Paul
first opened up and asked for help, (in 1982) if I had said to him, “my
name is Jesus and I have been awaiting the right time to speak to you,”
he would have known he had gone crazy. And because he was already
engaging in something questionable in his own mind by asking for help
and thinking there might be an answer, it would have meant that we would
not have talked any more. It would have been too much for him to take.
And so I give him the name Rajpur, which happens to mean “place of the
Prince,” “place of the Son of the King,” in other words, which conveyed
unbeknownst to him nevertheless that it was the Son of God speaking. It
wasn’t until almost a year later that I shared with him that I was the
one known as Jesus, in other words, the Christ.

Now I am present with and available to every single one of you, everyone
at every moment.  And so it is my intent in being with groups of people
like this to make this fact known and by Paul’s presence and demeanor
also convey the fact that my being available doesn’t require of anyone
any special talent, because Paul is about as regular as anyone else on
this planet and has no “special” talent in order to hear me. Does that
clarify that for you?

For those of you who are students of A Course In Miracles, I will take
this opportunity to point out that my time spent with Helen Schucman was
also not a special instance. And although there have been some
expressions of the fact, or the idea—not the fact—the idea that everyone
else can’t expect the same sort of relationship with me or with Guidance
that she experienced, is untrue. It is an attempt to elevate her, and to
elevate the Course into a false position of religious respect, whether
it is stated that way or not.

I would like to share for a moment that many of you—and this is not
confined to this group, it is a global dilemma—many of you are too
intelligent for your own good.  You have developed ways of interpreting
the world that are highly complex. And so in order to address you—either
in this manner or directly—I am called upon to help you get past your
education back to the simplicity of being, which is that God is Love,
which is that you are literally the presence of God. I am not saying
that you are God.  I’m saying that God is All There Is of You, all there
is to you and therefore when you arrive at a place where you’re willing
to relinquish all of your highfalutin understanding and manage to be
quiet within in an attentive listening mode then what God is being right
where you are as Himself but it looks like you can have a chance to
register with you so that you can begin to feel what you are, which is
the presence of Love. And in feeling that begin to be the embodiment of
love with each other and with everything, you see.

The idea that Love will change the world is as old as time because it’s
the answer to time. I mean by that that is what will undo time and
uncover eternity now, here, as everyone’s conscious experience. But when
everyone is so sure about how everything works and all of its
complexities and the genetics of things, and the cultural things and so
on and that is the context in which one’s search for truth occurs then
that is where I respond and slowly and gently encourage each of you to
have a different vantage point, one which is free of your definitions,
one which is free of your confidences.

As much as you value your confidences they constitute a defense against
enlightenment, they constitute a defense against learning of any kind,
of revelation of any kind. “I am quite sure that this is a glass, and
that it has water in it, and that water is made up of H2O, hydrogen and
oxygen, blah, blah, blah.” Well that’s an interesting description but
what is its meaning? I’m not going to answer the question. But be
curious about the things that you’re so sure you know what they are.
Wonder what, what is… is there a divine meaning here? And don’t be so
quick to say, “well, it’s an illusion and therefore it has no meaning,”
anymore than you would say that this flower is an illusion and has no
meaning. I will tell you it does not have the meaning that you are so
sure it has. If there’s anything there at all it’s the presence of Love,
and that means that you’re being loved by it because love radiates and
embraces and it includes.

And so it has meaning not just as something to observe and discern a
beauty in it that it may be inspiring to you, it also means in a far
more intimate way that at times when you feel unloved because of certain
situations even the flowers are being Love that embraces you and you are
able to feel it. And in moments of illumination many of you have felt
that the substance of everything around you was Living Love that was
loving you and you felt it, and you felt the Oneness without division,
even though there was variety of shape and color and design and so on.

There is so much more here than anyone is experiencing, just in terms of
what I’m going to call your world. There’s also so much more just in
terms of each other. And there was a point at which I said to my
disciples, “If you have seen me you have seen the Father.” Well if that
doesn’t imply that there’s a lot more to each of us than you think there
is, I don’t know what can convey that to you. If you have seen me you
have seen the Father. If you have seen each other you have seen the
Father. But we’re so sure that so-and-so is a hateful bitch, or
so-and-so is a hard-nosed business man who will walk over anybody, and
we have these definitions that we hold our fellow man to. But if you
have seen them you have seen the Father.

That’s why it’s so valuable to not be so sure about everything. That’s
why it’s valuable to have the shock of the realization that nothing you
see means anything. Because in the willingness to see it as meaningless
you’re not so sure, you’re not so confident, your concepts are not held
too tightly and the opportunity to see more of the Father that is there
in your brother and your sister and your mother and your daughter and
your brother and so on, the more chance there is for the Father to be
seen in them—the more chance there is to see the Father that is there
where they are.

And as each one begins to stop defending himself or herself against
seeing the Father there, by maintaining this strong opinion about who
they are, the more rapidly the world is going to change—I’m going to put
it this way, cause the world isn’t going to change—the more rapidly you
will begin to see the world clearly as it Is, which is the infinite
variety of form of substance that is Love expressed in infinite variety
loving you, including you in the potential of an experience of Oneness
that will cause you to no longer fear conflict and feel a need to defend
yourself against potential conflict.

I said that I am available to everyone. And my relationship with
everyone is a simple relationship because the truth that wakes everyone
up is a simple truth that God is Love, and therefore Love is what you
Are, and therefore Love is what your fellow man is. And therefore, there
is ample justification in just knowing that, for being curious to see
more of the Father that is there, than who you were so sure your fellow
man was. You see?

So although we can speak in complex terms don’t misunderstand the
elements of coming back into your divine Sanity is fundamentally simple.
A child can understand it. And to tell you the truth those who are less
highly educated have less junk standing between themselves and their
clarity.

~excerpt from A Gathering with Raj


