---
title: Jan 14, 2014
ref: Discussion
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

We&rsquo;re going to be talking about an interesting topic, one that in
many ways we&rsquo;ve talked about before, but not quite the way
we&rsquo;re going to talk about it tonight.

You&rsquo;ve heard me refer to everyone as the holy Sons and Daughters
of God. You&rsquo;ve heard me make it clear that every single one of you
is divine even though you believe otherwise. And you&rsquo;ve heard me
refer to you as Brothers and Sisters of mine.

Now even though we have discussed this at length, there is a persistent
habit of perception that gets in the way of the fulfillment of the
Meaning of those words. The persistent perception is that you are human
beings &ndash; that you are born, that you grow up and as you grow up
you learn. And a lot of your learning is done through classes and books.
And as you move into adulthood, the sorts of things that you choose to
learn about become more varied. And you choose books about all kinds of
topics including spirituality and religion. And you gain comfort from
your learning as you age and eventually die.

And you don&rsquo;t challenge that sort of moving picture, that
perceptual lifetime that you, as one of many human beings, go through
and carry on a tradition of, we&rsquo;ll say, spiritual learning. But
nevertheless, you do it as you age and die.

Now, when I have referred to you as being holy Sons and Daughters of
God, I mean that you are something quite different from that perception
that you carry with you. And if the perception isn&rsquo;t challenged,
there can&rsquo;t be breakthrough into the experience of what those
words Mean.

Now in the Christian tradition of religion and religious study, there is
a concept: the concept of the Trinity &ndash; the Father, the Son and
the Holy Spirit &ndash; called, &ldquo;the three Persons of the
Trinity.&rdquo; And as you study A Course in Miracles and you read about
the Holy Spirit, you continue, in spite of what the book says, to
perceive the Holy Spirit as a part of a Trinity that keeps It separate
from the other two parts, distinctly Itself. And this gets in the way of
what needs to happen.

Now, you&rsquo;ve heard me incessantly repeat the phrase: &ldquo;The
Holy Spirit &ndash; that which is nothing more than your right
Mind.&rdquo; I repeat it, because the only place that phrase appears is
in the original transcript of A Course in Miracles. It was edited out of
all of the revisions. I repeat it so that it cannot be forgotten, and so
that it keeps the door open to an intimacy that exists between you and
the Holy Spirit &ndash; that keeps It from being a separate part of a
Trinity.

Nevertheless, many of you turn problems over to the Holy Spirit. Many of
you ask, as you do the two-step, as you practice the holy instant, you
ask the Holy Spirit, &ldquo;What is the truth here?&rdquo; or the
Father, and you listen for an Answer. The Answer always comes as a
realization of truth clothed in words because that is what you have
asked for and that&rsquo;s the language in which you are listening. In
other words, the mode in which you are listening is that of paying
attention to hear language &ndash; words that express intelligence.

And in a way, this does not contribute to the clarity of mind that would
reveal to you that the Holy Spirit is nothing more than your right Mind.
And that in the joining of you with the Holy Spirit, in other words, in
the abandoning of the boundary between what you think you are and what
you divinely Are, all of what you Are comes together in a unity where
the Holy Spirit is your Mind, is therefore, your experience of Being of
(I&rsquo;m going to carefully say) Selfhood.

Now the Trinity is not an eternal fact. It was an accommodation to the
choice that was made to be an independent agent, when you said
&ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;d rather do it my way. Father I would rather
determine what this is and what that is. I wish to create my own
meanings for everything.&rdquo;

Now coming Home involves letting that Mind &ndash; which is nothing more
than your right Mind &ndash; permeate the privacy that you have indulged
in of a personal individual, self-governing selfhood and letting a
melding occur, or a reunion occur.

Now I&rsquo;m going to suggest to you that when you ask the Holy Spirit,
&ldquo;What is the truth here?&rdquo; that you ask to have the
experience of Truth, not an intellectual understanding. I encourage you
to ask the Holy Spirit to reveal to you Its experience of the Truth
about you, of the Truth about every aspect of your world, of the Truth
about your Brothers and Sisters, so that the two parts of the Trinity,
called, &ldquo;the Son and the Holy Spirit,&rdquo; collapse, and there
is just the Son, which is the Holy Spirit or there is just the Holy
Spirit, which is the Son.

Now when that occurs, it would seem that you would be left with the
Father and the Holy Spirit/Son: Two things instead of three.

But the wonder of it is, that the Trinity totally collapses into a Unity
where the Father, Being the Movement of Mind that constitutes Creation,
is the Source and the Manifestation. God Is what is rendered visible and
tangible as Creation. It&rsquo;s all One. And yet in that collapse from
a Trinity into a Unity, Creation does not lose its infinite
manifestation, its infinite recognizability.

You as Soul continue to experience everything in terms of what it
divinely Is without any misperceptions being overlaid upon everything.
And so your Mind is Whole &hellip; your Mind is Whole, but it is not
nebulous. The Holy Spirit &ndash; that which is nothing more than your
right Mind &ndash; when you let It in to the space that you had been
holding private, constitutes an influx of (what&rsquo;s the word we
use?) Enlightenment of Revelation where something is revealed. And what
is revealed is the experience of the actual Meaning that the Father is
expressing in and as every single thing &ndash; every aspect of the
infinity of what God Is.

Now, if you have been seeing yourself as a human, a mortal, going
through life reading books, praying to a Father which is part of the
Trinity, and reaching out to the Holy Spirit which is part of a Trinity,
and thinking that the Son is Jesus Christ and not You, you have a
wonderful and essential discovery to make. And that&rsquo;s the point.
You are going to realize your divinity. You are going to feel it. Your
holiness will be inseparable from and indistinguishable from you and
your conscious experience of Being. Your conscious experience of being
with &hellip; being in relationship with your Brothers and Sisters who
it is very clear to you are also the Christ.

This is what most everyone is afraid to let happen.

It is wonderful to think of yourself as being holy. It&rsquo;s wonderful
to think that your true status is that of my full Brothers and Sisters.
But, do you want the experience? It&rsquo;s an important question. And
especially since I&rsquo;m stating it so clearly: that the experience
awaits you, that the separation of the Father, the Son and the Holy
Spirit is not actual. You see?

Now it&rsquo;s rather like the &ldquo;Gold Rush,&rdquo; we&rsquo;ll say,
where many flocked to the places where gold was discovered and mined it.
And they came from all walks of life &ndash; a lot of them from poverty.
And what was the procedure? Well, the procedure was first, find gold.
Second, stake your claim. And third, register it.

Now as you study the Course, or without studying the Course, if you have
leaned into the Silence within yourself wanting to Know the Truth, you
have taken the first step &ndash; that of looking for gold. Having found
it, as it is revealed to you, you have to &ldquo;stake your
claim.&rdquo; In other words, you have to acknowledge that the
experience of what you call &ldquo;Guidance&rdquo; is Real and is
actually being provided to you by an Awakened Brother or Sister who is
performing the very same function as the Holy Spirit. Or, it is direct
from the Holy Spirit.  That&rsquo;s the way you stake your claim &ndash;
you consciously choose to have this experience.

Then registering your claim means the step we&rsquo;re talking about
tonight, where you move beyond the level of information about your
divinity and about the divinity of all things and you ask for the
experience of the divinity of everything. You ask the Holy Spirit
&ndash; that which is nothing more than your right Mind &ndash; to share
with you It&rsquo;s experience of what everything really Is &hellip;
It&rsquo;s experience of Truth.

That&rsquo;s the way you register your claim to your divinity.

You register your claim by claiming it as yours and letting the
transformation happen, letting yourself be changed, letting yourself be
infilled with an undistorted, unmistakably holy experience of yourself,
of your Brothers and Sisters and of everything.

Now, it&rsquo;s a popular idea among Course students that when that
happens the universe will disappear &ndash; things will cease to be. But
it&rsquo;s not true, because the infinite Expression of God is eternal,
identifiable, experienceable, actual. The experience of It awaits you in
every single moment.

And so, it&rsquo;s time to abandon this picture of yourself as someone
who lives in a house or an apartment or a tent or even the back of a
car, who reaches out to God or studies a holy book and reaches out to
the Holy Spirit asking for understanding, asking for things without ever
expecting the Trinity to collapse into a Unity that brings you into an
infinite conscious experience of everything as God is Being it and God
is Seeing it. Because you see the Father has withheld nothing of what He
is from any aspect of His Creation.

Now, you holy Sons and Daughters of God, I want you to realize that your
embrace of your holiness is the means by which you escape the distorted
perceptions which have been the result of you believing that you are
something other than holy. And your reverence for your perceptions,
after all it&rsquo;s quite a concept isn&rsquo;t it, that mankind is
through the ages growing spiritually, and someday mankind, as this sort
of developing group through the ages, will discover the Truth and be
transformed into something new.

No, this hasn&rsquo;t been happening through the ages and you
don&rsquo;t have to feel like you&rsquo;re carrying on a tradition. You
don&rsquo;t want to be carrying on what I taught two thousand years ago.
You want to be embodying what I or the Holy Spirit or your Guide or the
Father reveals to you in the very moment you&rsquo;re in and making
enquiry &ndash; NOW!

You&rsquo;re not on a long journey, and you&rsquo;re not on a long
journey that mankind, whatever that group is that has been moving down
through the centuries. You&rsquo;re not that! You are the point of
conscious awareness. You are at this very moment, the presence of Mind
&ndash; and I&rsquo;m going to capitalize that word &ldquo;Mind&rdquo;
because the Mind that you are, the Mind that is you is God presencing
Himself right where you are. And so the experience of what God Is, is
presencing Itself simultaneously in that very instance. You see?

And so, stop being on a journey of spiritual growth, either down through
the ages or through this lifetime which you will end up dying out of and
at some future time or place you will Wake up. No, you&rsquo;ll Wake up
when you grab the moment you&rsquo;re in and you say,
&ldquo;Father,&rdquo; or you say, &ldquo;Holy Spirit, reveal to me the
experience of Truth right here, it&rsquo;s my Birthright to Know it, to
have the experience.&rdquo;

You know, in an allegorical way you could say that before the
crucifixion, there was the Father and the Son. And at the end, when I
was leaving, we will say, I said that I would provide a Comforter. The
Comforter was the Holy Spirit. And of course, the Holy Spirit has been
present since the moment you got your divorce from the Father and said,
&ldquo;I would rather do it my way.&rdquo; In that moment when you acted
upon your decision, you lost your experience of your divine infinite
wholeness. And because it couldn&rsquo;t be affected, it remained, but
you were unaware of it, and it was what is called the Holy Spirit
&ndash; that which is nothing more than your right Mind.

And so, there was a Trinity. It didn&rsquo;t happen as a sequence in
time. The establishment, we&rsquo;ll say, of the Father, the Son and the
Holy Spirit happened at the instant that each one of you decided to join
with another Son or Daughter of God and make up your own stories, your
own rules, your own definitions and your own codes of conduct.

It&rsquo;s the undoing of that that we&rsquo;re talking about. And you
need to understand or be clear that the doing of it is something
you&rsquo;re doing now, it&rsquo;s not something you did in the past,
way back in &ldquo;the beginning.&rdquo; You can think of it that way
but that will bind you.

Your freedom comes in understanding that at this very moment you are
that point of conscious awareness, you are the point of Mind that is
conscious and embraces all that infinitely is, because your Mind in this
moment, is God Moving, God Moving You, God Being You and All.

And so, time cannot trap you. Time is not delaying you. Your holiness is
actual at this moment and your practice of the two-step is the way you
lay claim to your divinity. Step one of the two-step, of the holy
instant is, shut up, isn&rsquo;t it? Abandon your conscious active
creation of meanings, of definitions, of explanations, of
interpretations that give everything apparent substance, but only to a
deluded awareness. It never becomes actual. Nothing ever ceases to be
what God is Being. Because in the holy instant, the point of conscious
awareness, we will say, in the now &hellip; in the now &hellip; in the
now &hellip; is Eternity, is infinity.

When you practice the holy instant from now on, ask for the experience
of Truth, ask for the experience that it&rsquo;s not only your
Birthright to be experiencing but is the only thing you can actually
experience. In this way, your persistence will result in the dissolution
of, the evaporating of, the disappearing of misperceptions, and you will
experience being holy.

I&rsquo;m going to end with something important. The experience of
holiness is not complicated or strange. It is not outlandish. It is
simple. It can best be described as an experience, a humble experience
of everything, of yourself and everything you see. As an experience of
infinite Creation that is infinitely and specifically incredibly holy,
beautiful, harmonious, perfect, inviolable. And nothing is more
important than anything else, because holiness is whole. Holiness is
ultimate.

And so everything fits exquisitely on an infinite scale that isn&rsquo;t
confusing because the simplicity of the Love of God that moves into
expression remains simple. You will find your holiness in an experience
of yourself that is more genuine, less presumptuous, less magnified and
therefore, less threatenable. And it will speak of and illuminate peace
while at the same time being an exquisitely ultimate experience of
Being.

Don&rsquo;t be afraid to embrace your holiness. Do not be reluctant to
ask for the experience of You in your right Mind. You will become, for
lack of better words, a more genuine presence, whose presence is a
blessing to all things.

And so, in your house, or your apartment, or your tent, or the back seat
of your car, you can stop being &ldquo;a human living through a lifetime
that will end in death,&rdquo; and, instead, everything can become truly
meaningful and truly trans-formational just because Love is its
fundamental and actual nature, and you see it! And you behave toward it
with that &ldquo;understanding,&rdquo; I will say, which has come from
the experience.

Let what will be the wonderfulness of you come forth and don&rsquo;t
worry that it will make others jealous, or envious, or angry with you.
The Presence of God heals and transforms. And the Presence of God is
what the Son is. It is what you Are. Let It in. Consciously invite It so
that you can be in your house, or apartment, or tent, or the back seat
of your car in a new way that changes everything, by turning the
creation that you see, which appears to be infinitely conflicted, into a
Unity of perfect harmony. And let your Brothers and Sisters be the
reason you engage in embracing your holiness.

Let your desire to uncover the holiness of your Brothers and Sisters be
that which facilitates your discovery of your holiness, unifying what
had been chaotic.

I love you all, you holy Sons and Daughter of God, my Brothers and
Sisters.

