---
title: Jan 28, 2014
ref: Discussion
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

We&rsquo;re going to stay with the theme a little longer &ndash; the
theme of loving one another. We&rsquo;re going to come at it from a
slightly different angle tonight, that angle being, bearing witness.
Usually, bearing witness is thought of as bearing witness for each other
as in a court case or in an argument or in a situation where
clarification is needed.

But actually, we need to talk about bearing witness to Reality, bearing
witness to everything in its Actuality.

When Moses came down from the mountain with the Commandments, one of the
Commandments said, &ldquo;Thou shalt not bear false witness&rdquo;1
&hellip; continuing with examples that was something not to do.

But what to do instead? The very fact that the subject was bearing
witness, means that bearing witness is the activity that needs to be
engaged in correctly, instead of incorrectly.

Now, the Bible speaks about glorifying God. Well, that&rsquo;s bearing
witness. To glorify God is to bear witness to God. Since you are the Son
or Daughter of God, your function is to bear witness to your Source
&ndash; That which is responsible for your Being at this very moment. To
let That which is Being You show forth, that is your divine function.
And it&rsquo;s through the practice of the holy instant that this is
accomplished.

Now when you&rsquo;re not joined with the Holy Spirit or the Father and
you are not being &ldquo;in the world&rdquo; from that joined place, you
are being in it under the guidance and the rules of mutual agreements.
And so indeed you witness for each other, but you also witness against
each other. And always it is for the purpose of accomplishing a goal of
self-improvement. Even when you are engaged in promoting another&rsquo;s
self-improvement, it is always with your benefit behind it &ndash; to
witness for another doesn&rsquo;t mean to witness for what is Real about
another or what is true about another, it means doing that which will
accomplish a selfish end result &ndash; a result that will benefit you
and if it is going to benefit you, well, the one you&rsquo;re bearing
witness for is going to end up feeling good as well, even though
it&rsquo;s a game of manipulation, it&rsquo;s a dance the two of you
engage in without ever asking of the Father or the Holy Spirit,
&ldquo;What is the truth about this one I&rsquo;m relating to, so that I
might magnify that, so that I might behave in accordance with what is
Real and turn what had been a special relationship into a holy
relationship. You see?

Bearing witness &hellip; bearing witness. You know, to truly bear
witness is to be like a teacher. What does a teacher do? The teacher
bears witness to that in the student, which the student is not aware of
yet. One could say that the teacher bears witness to a capacity beyond
what the student thinks he has. And he provides the environment and the
encouragement for that student to access it. And the key element of
accessing it, is curiosity, isn&rsquo;t it.

A true teacher doesn&rsquo;t send the student to a book to learn. A
teacher puts the student in a mental environment &ndash; the
student&rsquo;s own mental environment &ndash; points him there and
says, &ldquo;Now be curious.&rdquo;

You can go to the books all you want and you can read about the result
of what someone else ended up with as a result of going within
themselves. You see? But that&rsquo;s not what you&rsquo;re supposed to
emulate. You&rsquo;re not to emulate the result.

You truly are to go within yourself and reach for, be curious to know
what you haven&rsquo;t the slightest idea about yet. You see? The
teacher bears witness to that in the student, which the student is not
yet aware of.

You see how healing that is? You see how transformational that is? How
different that is from manipulating each other for selfish ends &ndash;
witnessing for another because it will get you something instead of
reveal Something already there much greater than was seen before?

The petty manipulations, the small-minded means by which everyone
witnesses for each other is empty of fulfillment, because it never lifts
those involved out of a personal involvement that is being carried out
from an image that each one of them has about themselves being an orphan
and needing to do something to establish credibility and meaning.

And yet credibility and meaning cannot be experienced until one abandons
the bearing of false witness &ndash; follows the Commandment. See, even
when you&rsquo;re bearing witness for the integrity of another, if that
integrity has nothing to do with an awareness of God in them, it&rsquo;s
just an integrity that is conceptual and it doesn&rsquo;t lift anyone
into a valid enduring place or way of being.

So, we have the two-step. We have the holy instant to get out of the
orphan mind-set and the manipulations that orphans go through.

Now, you want to bear true witness for your Brother? Well then, you shut
up. You turn your attention away from your Brother to your Father, or to
the Holy Spirit &ndash; that which is nothing more than your right Mind
&ndash; and you ask, &ldquo;What is the truth here?&rdquo; And as I said
last time, you ask, &ldquo;I wish to have the experience of what the
truth is here so that what I do and what I say and the way I am with my
Brother inspires him to let himself into that place in him where the
Holy Spirit &ndash; that is nothing more than his right Mind &ndash; can
enter and inspire and illuminate what he didn&rsquo;t know before. So
that he ends up along with you, glorifying God, bearing witness to the
Presence of God.&rdquo;

That&rsquo;s what the Course is all about.

There&rsquo;s a lot that&rsquo;s distressing going on in the world
today. And you know what? You can&rsquo;t afford to start with the way
things are or the way things appear to be or the way you&rsquo;re
perceiving them if you want to get out of it. You&rsquo;re going to have
to step out of the orphan mind-set, out of the level of manipulation,
out of the level of bearing false witness and so-called true witness
about the other orphans and make the connection with the Father.

That&rsquo;s what it&rsquo;s all about.

You know, some of you don&rsquo;t like being lonely. Some of you,
let&rsquo;s say, who have been mothers or even parents, and your role
has been to be a mother and the children grow and the children leave and
the house is empty and you have no one to mother or father and your life
is empty, meaningless. Well, the role of mother is a temporary one that
serves a function. But it isn&rsquo;t who you Are, it isn&rsquo;t what
you Are. And to try to keep the role when there&rsquo;s no one to
practice it on, causes depression because it&rsquo;s constantly
meaningless.

But you know what? When you find yourself alone, if you find yourself
without personal friends, if you find yourself without associations that
you used to have, be grateful because you have the opportunity and the
time and the quietness to become still and practice the holy instant,
the two-step.

All of you play roles with each other if you&rsquo;re not listening to
Guidance. Count on it! There&rsquo;s nothing original or Real about what
you&rsquo;re doing if you&rsquo;re just bouncing off of each
other&rsquo;s egos.

And so if you have the quiet time and the space in which to ask of the
Holy Spirit what the truth is &ndash; to engage in learning &ndash; be
grateful, because you&rsquo;re not being distracted by your spontaneous
tendencies to fulfill a role with your Brother or Sister when
you&rsquo;re in the way with them.

Then as a result of your practicing the holy instant and experiencing
the influx of the Father&rsquo;s Perspective so that you are able to
bear witness to It, you are in a perfect position to have an encounter
with a Brother or Sister or friend and not be immediately sucked back
into the habitual role, the habitual way of relating to each other that
causes you to reinforce the orphan mentality again.

Your job is to love one another, which means, your job is to bear
witness for each other, which means to bear witness to the Father in
them that you are experiencing because you said, &ldquo;Before I engage
in a relationship with my Brother I am going to join with the Father so
that I can see my Brother truly and be with him from there.&rdquo; That
is the Answer. That is the step to your salvation. That is the means of
your Awakening.

Now, this is not necessarily new to you, but you are in need of someone
to witness for you and witness to That in you which you&rsquo;re not yet
aware of, and inspire your curiosity which may have been dulled through
disappointment, because of the loss of those to manipulate.

And so, I am engaging in witnessing for you by pointing you in the
direction of that which you&rsquo;re not experiencing yet but which it
is your Birthright to be experiencing. And I&rsquo;m telling you to go
within, into the Silence and become curious, want to know the truth,
want to experience the truth.

Now, because this isn&rsquo;t something new in it&rsquo;s totality to
you, you have engaged in these activities and there have been times when
you have been met with resistance. There have been times that opposition
has confronted you and you have said, &ldquo;Oh, this doesn&rsquo;t
work.&rdquo; Or, you have persisted and persisted and persisted, and
there is a stubbornness on the part of the one you are engaging with,
based on that one&rsquo;s internal decisions, that you&rsquo;re not able
to overcome. And so you say, &ldquo;Hm-m-m, this must not be the truth.
This must not be the step to salvation. This must not be the ultimate
thing that will promote Awakening.&rdquo; And it&rsquo;s not true.

You need some perspective. And so I&rsquo;m going to return to the
example of the teacher &ndash; let&rsquo;s say a professor (although it
can be a teacher anywhere). But the professor has classes in a
university. And students sign up for his classes and show up &ndash;
attend the classes &ndash; and he teaches them.

As he&rsquo;s walking around the campus, or perhaps having lunch in the
cafeteria, he engages in chats with other students, who are not his
students, and may, from time to time, share with them what he&rsquo;s
teaching and invite them to check into his class. But, you know what? He
doesn&rsquo;t try to teach them there!

There is a prerequisite to learning. And the prerequisite to learning is
the presence of curiosity &hellip; acted upon. And so, when you run into
resistance or sheer opposition, stop attempting to be the teacher! Stop
attempting to practice the holy instant for a planned result! Stop
using, or trying to use the holy instant as a means of control!

Essential to learning is curiosity, acted upon. And in practical terms
for the professor, that means that if he is going to teach a student,
the student is going to have to be curious, and he&rsquo;s going to have
to act on his curiosity by signing up for the class and showing up in
the classroom &hellip; bringing his attention with him. Then the teacher
will give his all to that student. That teacher will practice the
two-step himself, practice the holy instant himself or herself, and
witness to the more that that student is, and is capable of, than
he&rsquo;s presently allowing &ndash; inviting and accepting in.
It&rsquo;s simple.

Be careful that you don&rsquo;t use your spirituality as a higher level
of control, and stay with your common sense. Teach those who have
brought their curiosity into your presence.

Now, I&rsquo;ve used the example of a teacher, a teacher as a concept, a
teacher as a role. And I&rsquo;m not suggesting that you scan the
horizon for the best teachers you&rsquo;ve had, or to do a study on what
has constituted the greatest teachers in the world, so that you might
emulate their behavior in the world. You see?

If you&rsquo;re being a teacher, it&rsquo;s because you&rsquo;re not
trying to be a role. It&rsquo;s very simple. When you listen for the
truth about your Brother so that you may use it as a means of control,
then you are indeed trying to be the role of a teacher.

But when you engage in the holy instant, when you shut your ego up, when
you silence your thinking and you bring your curiosity to the Father or
the Holy Spirit &ndash; which is nothing more than your right Mind
&ndash; then your attention isn&rsquo;t on yourself and what
you&rsquo;re doing, at all, or what others might think you&rsquo;re
doing, what it looks like, whether you look foolish, or wise, or
important, or unimportant, because your focus, your attention is on the
truth and the experience of its Meaning. And you&rsquo;re letting that
elicit your behavior, prompt your behavior toward your Brother or your
Sister, whom you&rsquo;re not in the least bit interested in controlling
or enlightening, as it were.

You&rsquo;re being the Presence of the Father. You&rsquo;re letting the
Father show up. You&rsquo;re glorifying God by bearing witness to what?
To God, not yourself. You are bearing witness to God. You are involved,
but you&rsquo;re not involved as the originator of your behavior and
you&rsquo;re not being a role.

And so, there&rsquo;s a simple, humble, genuineness to you. And
I&rsquo;ll tell you something: That simple, humble, genuineness feels
good, not only to everyone around you, but to everything &hellip; every
plant, every animal, every rock, every object. Because every one of them
is a divine Idea, an active divine Idea in the Mind of God at this
moment, bearing witness to God at this very moment. And when
you&rsquo;re doing the same thing, there is what I&rsquo;m going to
call, a resonance with everything. Resonance is harmony, for lack of
better words, it feels good, it is that which elicits joy.

Now, this is your function: to glorify God, to bear witness to the
Reality of everything as God is Being It because God is revealing to you
what He is being and providing the experience of what it Means.

This is the way the Trinity collapses into a Unity.

Now, let&rsquo;s be clear on something else: Don&rsquo;t even bother to
try to bear witness for yourself. You know what? That&rsquo;s what the
ego is. That is what you are suffering from. And that is what you want
to abandon.

When you are willing to turn within to the Father, or the Holy Spirit
&ndash; whose job it is to reveal to you the Father&rsquo;s Meanings
&ndash; you find yourself in utter harmony with everything, and
everything finds itself in utter harmony with you. And it is a conscious
experience had by everything. And that is a way of describing the Unity
that is caused by or brought forth by the collapse of the Trinity. And
that&rsquo;s Awakening.

Now let&rsquo;s keep it simple this week. None of you has any other job
to engage in, but to bear witness to God &hellip; to bear witness to God
in your Brother and Sister, and to not confuse yourselves by trying to
compete with resistance or opposition that you run into. And mind you,
having an opinion about it is engaging in competition with it. And it
will drag you right down into the polarities of the orphan mentality.
And you&rsquo;re going to have to find a way once again to be alone so
that you&rsquo;re not reinforcing your old habits and you can shut up
without distraction, and you can return your attention to the Father so
that you in your bearing witness to the Father, can allow the Father to
bear witness to you in your actuality.

It&rsquo;s beautiful. It is simple. Don&rsquo;t let yourselves be
discouraged.

I love you very much. And I promise you that no matter when you might be
hearing this, I am with you now. You are not alone. The Holy Spirit
&ndash; which is nothing more than your right Mind &ndash; is with you
and of course, the Father is with you because the Father is being all
there is of you.

Accepting these facts, promotes the collapse, bringing about the
experience of Unity. When things seem to be rough, this is what is
called for. What is called for is, the Answer to the dissonance, or the
problems, or the unfairness and so on. You see? So don&rsquo;t be
discouraged, because there&rsquo;s amble opportunity to bare true
witness. It will be your joy.

I love you very much. And I look forward to being with you next time.

