---
title: Mar 9, 2014
ref: Discussion
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

You may not have thought about it, but when you practice the two-step,
when you reach out to the Holy Spirit, when you ask for Guidance, you
are very specifically requesting to move beyond what you already
believe. You are experiencing what you already believe and you are not
experiencing what you cannot believe.

The way out of the box, the way out of the limitations you&rsquo;re
bound by, is to reach beyond what you believe. And at the bottom line,
that&rsquo;s all we&rsquo;re talking about. That is the fundamental
point taught by A Course in Miracles.

What it amounts to is stretching your boundaries&mdash;accessing what is
currently unbelievable to you.

You seem to have a terminal illness. It&rsquo;s unbelievable to you that
it not only could go into remission but actually vanish entirely, so
that you are not someone with a disease that is in remission, you are
whole and invincible where you had believed otherwise.

You believe you&rsquo;re human when you are divine. And A Course in
Miracles points you in the direction of Awakening to your divinity,
which means moving into an experience of what is currently unbelievable.
And as you take steps to Wake up, you push against your doubt&mdash;you
push against the unbelievability. And even though you have the Guidance
of the Holy Spirit, even though you have the Guidance of your Guide who
is fully Christed&mdash;fully Awake&mdash;the Guidance given stretches
you sometimes uncomfortably because the call is for you to experience
Something more than you are experiencing &hellip; that there is a demand
for you to experience more, a demand that you can&rsquo;t shove aside or
make nothing of. And so you feel pushed. And yet it&rsquo;s
unbelievable.

And so your faithlessness comes into play.

Well, in other words, you&rsquo;re having little faith in the Guidance
that is given as a result of your successfully doing the
two-step&mdash;as a result of successfully abandoning your willful
intent to believe only what you believe so that you might access the
more of what God is Being than what you&rsquo;re currently experiencing.
You see?

You see, it&rsquo;s not your faith that needs help, it&rsquo;s your
faithlessness that needs to be lifted up. It&rsquo;s your faithlessness
that needs to be replaced with the inspiration of the Truth.
Faithlessness is expressed in an unwillingness to believe what you
can&rsquo;t believe.

When you find yourself bound by a demand to believe what you can&rsquo;t
believe and you&rsquo;re stuck in that in-between place, you become
immobilized. And it feels as though the only thing that will get you out
of that is an act of willfulness&mdash;some strong personal assertion to
overcome the inertia.

But the simple fact is, that the only thing that you can willfully
assert is what you already believe. There is no way to assert what you
don&rsquo;t believe yet. And there is no way to access what you
don&rsquo;t believe through the assertion of what you do believe.

I&rsquo;m going to say that again: There&rsquo;s no way to access what
you don&rsquo;t believe through an act of assertion of what you do
believe. You can only yield into the unbelievable. You can only yield
into what the Holy Spirit will reveal to you in the absence of
willfulness. You see?

Willingness to believe what you can&rsquo;t believe becomes the door
through which the Holy Spirit can enter into your awareness and inspire
you with the truth that goes beyond what you currently believe and lift
you into the experience of fulfillment that you want but that you
haven&rsquo;t been able to access because of your very strong beliefs.
You see?

Faithlessness or doubt is never charged. It&rsquo;s just doubt.
It&rsquo;s just an inability to believe the truth of something. But when
your doubt becomes energized by fear, it becomes anxiety. And if you
persist, the anxiety is enervating, debilitating, immobilizing.

Why am I bringing this up? I&rsquo;m bringing it up because it&rsquo;s
an experience that all of you have had or will have as you lean into the
Holy Spirit more and more significantly&mdash;more and more
consistently.

You will find yourselves led to do what seems to be impossible to you,
because it&rsquo;s time for a breakthrough, because it&rsquo;s time for
a real shift to occur. And you will resist it.

What will be needed is for you to ask further questions of
Guidance&mdash;of the Holy Spirit. But when you&rsquo;re immobilized by
anxiety, you&rsquo;re inclined to say, &ldquo;Why should I ask Guidance
for information, for an &lsquo;understanding&rsquo; that doesn&rsquo;t
make any more sense than what I&rsquo;ve already gotten?&rdquo;
&ldquo;Why should I ask a question that&rsquo;s going to generate more
anxiety?&rdquo; &ldquo;I would be better off resorting to the assertion
of will and break through this inhibition on my own.&rdquo;

It very often seems that an act of willfulness constitutes real
movement. It can seem like that, when willfulness doesn&rsquo;t
constitute movement at all. Because movement is the clear and simple
result of yielding &hellip; what? . . into the Movement that you are not
initiating, which, because it is the Movement of Creation it is the
Movement of the Father, constitutes fulfillment beyond what you could
imagine&mdash;beyond what you currently believe. You see?

Now I am bringing this up because in very practical terms, as I shared
two weeks ago, Paul and Susan are in the process of taking the steps
needing to be taken to put the old residence on the market. And when it
became apparent that this needed to happen now, for whatever reason, it
went beyond Paul&rsquo;s sense of what was possible.

He found himself full of arguments. It&rsquo;s not the right time.
There&rsquo;s no way to do it. He will look like a fool in front of
everyone when he publically shares that steps need to be taken that he
doesn&rsquo;t believe can be taken &hellip; and on and on&mdash;the ego
ranted and raved.

Now, this is not the first time that I have guided Paul and Susan to
take steps that seemed to be impossible. There was another time when
they moved back to the mainland from Kauai. And when it came time to get
a release for the car to be transported back to the mainland which had
been purchased on Kauai, the bank said, &ldquo;No, you cannot take it
with you, you have too much of a balance,&rdquo; the logic of it being
that once it got back on the mainland it would be almost impossible to
repossess, because difficult to trace.

Well, this was shocking news, because it was like a week before the
movers would load up the truck and take it down to the ship to be
transported &hellip; an impossible situation. And then when I was asked,
&ldquo;What do we do?&rdquo; I told them, &ldquo;Give the car back to
the bank.&rdquo;

Well, the first Guidance said (that wasn&rsquo;t the first Guidance) the
first difficulty that was presented was that the car could not accompany
them back to the mainland. The Guidance was to move back to the
mainland.  That presented an impossible situation. Then when I said,
&ldquo;Give the car back to the bank,&rdquo; that was an absolutely
impossible situation. How can you move back to the mainland and do
anything without transportation?

It was alarming. At least Paul was alarmed.

Nevertheless, he called the bank and said to them, &ldquo;We will let
you repossess the car.&rdquo; And that was that! Within 24 hours he got
a call back from the bank and he was told that they had reconsidered
their decision and that they would release the car to go back to the
mainland for a relatively small sum. It was a sum that was not available
in the Foundation&rsquo;s account (the car belonging to the Foundation).
But nevertheless that was a significant shift.

Later that day, after they had gotten the news that a relatively small
amount was all that was needed in order for the bank to release the car,
Paul and Susan received a call from someone who received the Newsletters
from the Foundation, had attended Gatherings and so on, and he was
visiting Kauai and wanted to know if he could visit with us.

We explained to him&mdash;Susan and Paul explained to him&mdash;that all
there were to sit on were boxes, but they would love to meet with him.
And he came and visited. And during the visit Paul shared the situation.
And the gentleman said, &ldquo;Well, that&rsquo;s no problem, I&rsquo;ll
write you a check right now for the small amount that they
require.&rdquo; And it was a gift.

So that which seemed utterly impossible, which seemed to generate
Guidance that was even more impossible, when tempered with a willingness
to believe that maybe the impossible was possible, resolved itself as
fulfillment identified.

Now, as I said, this is not something that only Paul and Susan will run
into or have run into as a result of Guidance. Every single one of you
will be faced with the call for the opposite of faithlessness&mdash;a
call for faith. A call for daring to be willing, without employing
willfulness, daring to be willing to be open to the possibility of what
seems to you to be impossible and then listening&mdash;persisting in
listening&mdash;being determined, if I may put it that way, focused
without willfulness to stay steady in the attitude of attention.
Attention toward what? . .  more of the ego talk? No. Attention to the
Guidance that the Holy Spirit is intent upon sharing with every one of
you, because fulfillment is ordained. The experience of what God is
actually Being is ordained to be your experience and will be your
experience when faithlessness is abandoned.

Now, as I said, for whatever reasons the preparation of the old
residence for sale registered with Paul as something not possible at
this time, something that there was no indication there could be a
possibility of. And it was discouraging and immobilizing. And when I
shared it with everyone two weeks ago, it was difficult for Paul to sit
and let me share it, although he did it well&mdash;he persisted.

Now, we did not have a meeting last week because of the immobilization
that he experienced, an immobilization during which he has, to the best
of his ability, persisted in asking me and asking of the Holy Spirit,
&ldquo;What is the truth here? What is the truth beyond what I seem to
be able to embrace? What is the truth beyond what seems to be
frightening me?&rdquo; He persisted. He was determined not to be
immobilized, but he was also determined not to be willful.

And so, we did not have the meeting, and you may have noticed that there
has been less activity on the blog. And to tell you the truth &hellip;

 &hellip; just a moment &hellip;

&hellip; it has taken faith on his part to allow this Gathering to
occur.  And yet he was insistent upon putting himself in the place where
he could hear what I had to say for his healing, and for yours as well.

When you are stuck because you cannot believe, &ldquo;unbelievable
good,&rdquo; you can stay stuck for as long as you want. You can be
uncomfortable for as long as you choose to be, even though you say that
the discomfort has been forced upon you. Or, you can engage in the
simple act of joining with your Guide, joining with the Holy Spirit,
reaching out to ask, &ldquo;What is the truth here? As unbelievable as
it might be, what is the truth here? &hellip; because I want my
boundaries stretched. I do not want to remain tied up in a little ball.
And I refuse to employ willfulness to break the bondage.&rdquo; You see?

This is the good news about the bad news. This is the answer to the
difficulty of being stuck by what you currently believe, which is
incompatible with the unbelievable answers that release you from the
human condition, that release you from the concept of your being mortal
that release you from illness, whether terminal or not, or injury or
damage whether supposedly permanent or not. Have enough gumption to
persist even in your worst moments, to ask the Father, to ask the Holy
Spirit&mdash;which is nothing more than your right
Mind&mdash;&ldquo;What is the truth here?&rdquo; Persist in reaching,
we&rsquo;ll say, through the veil, through the cloud, through the
disturbance that seems to blind you to the experience of joy&mdash;the
joy of fulfillment.

Now, it&rsquo;s your Birthright to have the breakthrough. It&rsquo;s
your Birthright to experience the Atonement. It&rsquo;s inevitable! It
is inevitable, because it is impossible for you to remain ignorant of
what you never stopped being &hellip; the divine holy Son or Daughter of
God &hellip; the perfect expression&mdash;His perfect Expression.

Now I said two weeks ago that we would keep you informed regarding the
refurbishing of the previous residence. And I will share with you, and
Paul is very happy, and Susan is very happy that I will share with you
that the support, the contributions that have been received have been
quite wonderful and there is a lot of gratitude. And a lot of that
gratitude reflects the relief from fear that Paul had been experiencing,
which of course had been affecting their relationship.

The need is not totally met. It is approximately two-thirds met. But it
is an apparently large amount of money, and yet it is showing up.  And
although I have spent more time tonight talking about overcoming
faithlessness, there is one strong message, which we, including me, wish
to share, and it is gratitude. Gratitude, Paul can tell you, is a far
better thing to be experiencing than faithlessness, fear and anxiety.
And although he is not totally free of faithlessness, fear and anxiety,
his gratitude out-weighs it and he feels the fact that in the face of
present gratitude, faithlessness, fear and anxiety cannot stand.

Thank you to everyone who is participating in whatever way they are
participating in the support of this movement which is necessary, and
which I will reaffirm will be fulfilled and identified as fulfillment.

Thank you again. And I look forward to being with you next time.

