---
title: Jun 16, 2014
ref: Discussion
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

Quite a long time ago, I shared the idea that questions are the leading
edge of answers. And just recently, I shared the idea that when you are
seeking Guidance&mdash;when you are inquiring of the Holy Spirit or your
Guide or the Father, &ldquo;What the truth is here?&rdquo; or asking any
question, that you should treat the question like a grace note. You ask
the question and you get off of it quickly and shift your attention to
listening for the Answer.

If indeed, the question is the leading edge of the Answer, it means that
the emergence of *inspiration is occurring*, and let&rsquo;s say,
tickling your fancy, causing you to be curious. And so, when you bring
your curiosity onto the scene, you are primed for the emergence of the
Answer, which is in process of coming to mind to your awareness.

Now the tricky thing about it is, that when the emergence of inspiration
is occurring and curiosity is experienced, it seems as though what
you&rsquo;re curious about is what is important. In other words, that
the question is what is important. And even more, it suggests that there
is someone asking the question, as though you, having a question, are
initiating a movement out of which will come some new information. In
other words, the suggestion is that you, as the questioner, are causing
an answer to come forth rather than the fact which is, that an Answer
coming forth is getting your attention so that you might become curious
without becoming preoccupied with yourself as the questioner, or the
question. So that the &ldquo;ah-ha!&rdquo;&mdash;the light bulb, can go
on and the inspiration can be experienced&mdash;the Revelation&mdash;the
clearer experience of truth can register with you. You see?

This is important.

God has not created you as an independent entity capable of functioning
on its own of its own volition, and with capacities included within you
causing you to supposedly function with total independence from
anything. That is *not* &hellip; that is not what God did and that is
not what you Are.

Infinite Mind, God&mdash;the Movement of inspiration&mdash;is what
causes Creation &hellip; is *Itself* the Movement of Creation. You are
here to observe It and recognize It for what It is, and not assume that
you caused It or that you can take credit for It in any way other than,
that you have fulfilled your Function, which is to recognize God in It.

So you see, there is no &ldquo;you&rdquo; as a questioner. You can
imagine that there is, but there isn&rsquo;t, because inspiration is
eternal and it occurs for you to experience&ndash;*not for you to think
you have initiated*. Now whether you recognize it or not, when it is
accepted, when it is grasped, it is a great relief, because it means
you&rsquo;re not responsible for anything that you can be guilty for not
handling well. There is no you of the sort that could be at fault.

You have a wonderful opportunity as the very nature of your Being to be
in the flow&mdash;in the Movement of inspiration dawning &hellip;
dawning &hellip; dawning &hellip; dawning &hellip; dawning, and you
recognizing God in it &hellip; God in it &hellip; God in it. You see?
You will find that when you let that be your function&mdash;which it
is&mdash;but when you let it be your only *function*, sin, disease and
death, dissonance, chaos, negativity of all kinds will stop *seeming* to
present themselves to you.

The only thing that ever caused them to show up in your experience was
you taking credit&ndash;you, thinking you were the initiator, or you
were the one able to pose a question, the answer to which would change
everything&ndash;change the world, contribute to the world, make a huge
difference that would prove to you your value and your validity. You
see?

Now when you realize that the question is *not really a question*, but a
niggling awareness of something new about to present itself and that
there is no questioner at all initiating the answer&mdash;initiating the
revelation, what happens? Do you disappear? Absolutely not!

Oh-h, but the fear&mdash;the anxiety associated with the responsibility
of being in charge yourself &hellip; that disappears. And together with
that, the apparent physical effects that seem to accompany fear:
self-doubt, self-criticism, self-judgment &hellip; that disappears.

Now, there is a flip-side, you might say, to this. When you&rsquo;re
experiencing a problem, there seems to be a problem that you need to
address and there seems to be a &ldquo;you&rdquo; who has the problem.
And just as with questions and the questioner, the problem and the one
with the problem are *illusions*. But if you don&rsquo;t recognize it,
you can end up being snared&mdash;caught in the dilemma of being the one
with the problem that *maybe*, you won&rsquo;t be able to cope with,
that *maybe*, will be too big for you to master.

But the key lies in not finding a way to master the problem. It
isn&rsquo;t for you, as the one with the problem, to find a way to
master the problem. The answer lies in recognizing that the problem and
the &ldquo;you&rdquo; who you think you are, that has the problem, are
misperceptions&mdash;are illusory. In other words, as anyone who has
studied metaphysics or spirituality knows, these things are said to be
*not real* &hellip; which in many cases seems to be an unreasonable
statement.

But they are not Real. Because when you abandon the stance of being one
with the problem that must solve the problem, when you are willing to
take a look at that and say, &ldquo;Maybe this perception of a problem
and this perception of a &lsquo;me having the problem&rsquo; isn&rsquo;t
*real*,&rdquo; you have a means of exit from the strangle-hold the
problem has on you because you can at least conceive that there&rsquo;s
an &ldquo;outside&rdquo; of the problem that you can step into.

Just as with the fact that when you realize that the question is not
what is important, and the questioner isn&rsquo;t what is important, but
that the Answer that is emerging is the only thing going on. Likewise,
the &ldquo;you&rdquo; with the problem and the problem are *not you* and
are *not your perspective*, even though you have claimed them as yours
and believe that they are yours and believe that it is truly you having
the experience and being responsible for it.

And it&rsquo;s not true. Because if you will be willing to at least
imagine that at the moment you seem to be embroiled in the problem, it
is just a perception, just a mind-set, just a stance you have taken, you
can conceive that you can abandon the stance.

And when you abandon it, do you disappear? No. Just as you don&rsquo;t
disappear when you stop claiming to be the questioner and you stop
seeing the question as the initiator of answers, you find yourself to be
in the pristine place of innocence and invulnerability. You see?

It all depends on what you&rsquo;re going to let be your teacher. To
what do you turn to learn? Well, this can be a sticky question also.

Do you get up in the morning and look out the window to see the weather,
to see what kind of day you&rsquo;re going to have? Do you get up in the
morning and check the associated press releases on your phone or turn on
the TV to find out what&rsquo;s going on in the world so you might know
how you should feel?

*What do you let inform you about yourself?* What do you use to
determine who you are, what you are and how you must feel? Do you let
the world inform you about you? Or do you do the two-step. Do you turn
to the Holy Spirit to learn and inquire, &ldquo;What is the truth
here?&rdquo; So the truth dawning in you *informs your world as to what
it is&mdash;what it divinely is*&mdash;so that you might learn the truth
of that Teacher and enjoy your day and see the Father illuminated more
and more clearly so that you&rsquo;re able to fulfill your function of
*recognizing* God in your world.

Now we&rsquo;ve talked about the two teachers a lot. And usually, the
two teachers have been referred to as the ego and the Holy Spirit. But
tonight I want to use two different words that will bring home the
meaning more fully.

The two teachers and the *only* two teachers you have to turn to are
memory or inspiration. The only two teachers there are that you can
gather anything from, are memory and inspiration.

Inspiration you can have no control over whatsoever. Inspiration
happens, doesn&rsquo;t it. And I will tell you that it happens whenever
you let it. It doesn&rsquo;t seem to happen often because you
don&rsquo;t invite it, you don&rsquo;t let it. You don&rsquo;t realize
that that is the Movement of Creation. That is the Movement of the
infinite Mind that is God that *informs Reality* called,
&ldquo;Creation.&rdquo;

But it&rsquo;s a fact. But in order to experience inspiration you must
be willing to lose your balance, you must be willing to be out of
control. You must be willing to ALLOW what is Real to register with you
because you&rsquo;ve asked to know what it is. And you have declined to
search through memory&mdash;*your memory*&mdash;to find out what the
Answers are. You see?

These are really the meanings of what &ldquo;the two teachers&rdquo;
mean.

Now, in spite of the truth of what I&rsquo;ve said, most of you do let
yourselves be informed by your world. And your world seems to be
reporting to you chaotic, destructive, inconsistent, unloving actions
and events.

And Oh-h &hellip; does it get to you! It depresses you or it makes you
furious or it makes you feel like getting up on your hind feet and
making something happen to correct it. It makes you try to take control.

But you see, what you have seen and the effect it had on you is not
because your world has informed you, but because you have turned to
*memory* and all of the meanings you have assigned to the world and all
of the mutual agreements and rules that you have put into place that you
rely upon *absolutely* in order to try to be in charge and keep a
reasonable amount of order in place so that you will not be overcome by
chaos and fear and sin, sickness and death. It&rsquo;s that simple.

Now, here&rsquo;s the part that needs to be understood very simply and
very clearly. The *you* who has looked out at the world, the *you* who
has turned to his or her *memory* in order to determine the *meaning* of
the world he or she has looked out at, that one is an illusion&mdash;is
an imaginary character! And *you*, who are employing that stance, have
not yet truly seen the world, even though you&rsquo;ve observed it to
try to gather information about how you are, about how safe you are, and
so on.

You are not an illusion. You are actual. But You *are* the conscious
awareness of Being, the presence of Mind, which has only the capacity to
be conscious of what Is. And what Is, is what God is Being. And part of
God being All includes you recognizing God in All. You see?

It is as though you are the confirmation of Creation. It is as though
you are the act of confirming Creation for what it is … by what? having
*asked of God* what the truth is. And having asked of God because there
is a niggling question [chuckling] that is occurring in you!

Now the niggling question may be occurring because you&rsquo;re in
distress and in so many words something in you says, &ldquo;There must
be a better way than this.&rdquo; Where did that thought come from? It
didn&rsquo;t come from your memory. It came from the insistence of the
Holy Spirit&mdash;that which is nothing more than your right
Mind&mdash;insinuating the wholeness of You into your present limited
awareness. It&rsquo;s your salvation releasing you from an unreal
bondage&mdash;an imagined bondage.

Now, when you arrive at this point where you seem to be caught and
overwhelmed and hopeless in a problem, and you look squarely at the
possibility that what I&rsquo;m saying is true, and that the you that
seems to be experiencing this, and whatever it is that you&rsquo;re
experiencing are an illusion, you&rsquo;re likely to think, &ldquo;Well
that means I&rsquo;m totally insane. It means that I am possessed by
another presence &hellip; not me. And I am possessed by it so completely
that I think it&rsquo;s me, and I have no inclination to seek any other
perspective. Now, if that&rsquo;s not the definition of crazy, I
don&rsquo;t know what it is. And that scares me.&rdquo;

You see, that line of thought could occur and cause you to stay bound.
But I will reaffirm to you something you need to know. And that is, that
separate and apart from your present fixation on a sense of self with a
problem, and a problem that aren&rsquo;t actually Real, is like an idea
in the mind of *you* having the idea, and the *you* that is having the
idea is not the *idea*. You see? Therefore, you can abandon the idea.
You can abandon the idea in preference to saying, &ldquo;Father, what is
the truth here?&rdquo; You see?

Now another aspect of all of this is, that the you who has the problem
is not going to be able to work its way out of the problem, because the
you that has a problem is *imagined*. It is an imagination and
it&rsquo;s not you. That&rsquo;s how come you can escape from it. You
see? That&rsquo;s why you can escape from it. And that&rsquo;s why you
have *A Course In Miracles* to explain these things so that you might
realize that the way Home is already predetermined, set in place for you
because you are not what you *think* you are. You are divine, and every
aspect of your Being is absolutely divine, invulnerable, absolutely
perfect. And this perfect presence of Mind that you Are, is untouched at
the very moment that you feel caught by a problem, or even overwhelmed
by a question that you think there might be an answer to that you could
figure out.

The you who has the capacity to Know exists untouched by the imagined
self who has a problem, or who has a question &hellip; and who knows so
much about the problem or so much about the question that it seems that
an answer is absolutely impossible. And as a result of that conviction,
locking yourself into the problem or the question without an answer, and
all of it because you think that you are the questioner and that you are
the one who has the problem and that you are responsible for only having
questions or problems [chuckles] without answers. You see?

To what do you turn to learn &hellip; memory or inspiration?

So what do you do? You feel frightened. You feel tense. You feel
grief-stricken. You feel misunderstood. You feel disrespected when you
deserve respect. Well, wait a minute &hellip; where did those feelings
come from? &ldquo;Well, I don&rsquo;t know where they came from, but
I&rsquo;m experiencing them. I am sad. I am angry. I do have hurt
feelings. I have been mistreated&rdquo; &hellip; and on and on and on.

Well, wait a minute &hellip; there isn&rsquo;t any *you* who stands in
the middle of problems and solutions, or questions and answers. There
isn&rsquo;t any you that stands between the Holy Spirit and an ego that
you are. You see? You don&rsquo;t have an independent valid place from
which to be or do anything. But you imagine that you do.

In other words, at any given moment, a *teacher* is teaching you
something. You are never in an independent place where you&rsquo;re not
being taught by something other than who you think you are. If you are
experiencing fear or distress of any sort, or jealousy, or
self-righteousness, a teacher is providing you with those dynamics, and
of course, we have referred to it as the ego. And I have pointed out in
the past that the ego never says, &ldquo;You are feeling this way, or
you are hurt, or you are upset.&rdquo; The ego, we&rsquo;ll say, in your
mind says, &ldquo;I am hurt. I am upset. I am feeling appropriately
self-righteous.&rdquo; You see? And you hear the words that a teacher is
presenting to you and you hear them as though you are speaking them in
your mind. And you claim ownership of something that a teacher is
providing you with.

Is the Holy Spirit revealing to you the spirit of fear? No! But
something is. And it&rsquo;s not an independent experience you are
having all by your little self, separate and apart from a teacher called
the ego, or the teacher called the Holy Spirit.

I&rsquo;m sorry to hurt your feelings and to tell you that you just
don&rsquo;t exist that way at all. You don&rsquo;t exist with any
*independent*, self-initiated selfhood. You are always being taught.
You are always giving voice to a teacher. In other words, you are a
puppet no matter what. And you&rsquo;re either a puppet of your memory
or you are a puppet of the inspiration of Being that is the Movement of
the Mind of God called Creation. You see?

*Pay attention to this*: You&rsquo;re never having a thought of your
own. *You are never having a thought of your own.* Get used to the idea.
Accept it. Acknowledge it. And that will release you. It will cause you
to allow yourself to be what you Are&mdash;the puppet of the Father, the
Expression of the Father, reflecting everything that the Father is
Being, not initiating anything on your own. And in that experience is
your salvation, your atonement, your Awakening.

Acknowledge and accept it as a precept that you have no ideas by
yourself. As long as you think you do, and based upon your memory and
the rules that you&rsquo;ve set up there, you will believe that having
thoughts of your own validates you and you will not be so willing to
abandon that right&mdash;that so-called *right*&mdash;in favor of being
the reflection of the wholeness, the infiniteness of the Movement of
God.

Now again, you will never work your way out of the problem. In other
words, you will never improve.

You can&rsquo;t get to the truth from the bottom up. The emergence of
Truth, the emergence of Reality, the emergence of Salvation, the
emergence of Revelation is always from the top down. And the top-down
movement is called *inspiration*.

When and if you are so caught by the morbid or negative energy of a
distorted ego viewpoint, or orphan mentality&mdash;that which is
separated from all that makes it valid&mdash;you must remember to stop
trying to improve yourself and to engage in the two-step, address the
situation at the top, &ldquo;Father, Holy Spirit, what is the
god&rsquo;s honest truth here? I&rsquo;m willing to abandon what the
other teacher is teaching me. In fact, I insist upon it.&rdquo;

The rules of memory, because you formed them by yourself and in tandem
with others governs you absolutely. They are laws that cause you to say,
&ldquo;No, no I am so miserable I do not want to seek the Truth right
now. No, I have been so badly wronged I refuse to get into a place where
I might experience love or forgiveness or a non-judgmental practicality
that allows me to deal with the situation constructively and
harmoniously while correction is brought about. You see?

When you seem caught you must insist upon first of all recognizing that
a teacher is teaching you and these thoughts and feelings are not *your*
thoughts and feelings, the divine one that you Are. And then stop
validating them by *insisting* upon turning to the Father, changing
teachers with commitment. It will take purpose. It is appropriate to be
ongoingly consistent in your insistence upon seeking the answer from
God&rsquo;s Teachers.

That&rsquo;s the only way you can switch teachers, when you&rsquo;re so
upset or unhappy or fearful that you say it is hopeless to ask what is
the truth here, that it&rsquo;s hopeless to turn to God. &ldquo;Well,
nobody else has turned to God and made it!&rdquo; Hey, don&rsquo;t make
commitment to that attitude. Don&rsquo;t let that attitude rule you with
the same kind of insistence and determination. Switch teachers!
&ldquo;Father, what is the divine fact here that uncovers the
Truth&mdash;the perfect invulnerable Self that I Am at Your hand.&rdquo;
You see? But do it with the same amount of commitment that you bring to
your willingness&mdash;your stubborn willingness&mdash;to govern
yourself by the negativity you&rsquo;re feeling.

Abandon your faith in the teacher that is teaching you to **DIE**. Amen.

I love you all. And I look forward to being with you next time.

