---
title: Sept 15, 2014
ref: Discussion
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

We&rsquo;ve talked before about your getting a divorce from the Father.
We&rsquo;ve talked about the &ldquo;act of independence&rdquo; in which
you and another Son or Daughter of God said &ldquo;Father, we&rsquo;d
rather do it our way.&rdquo; &ldquo;Father, we&rsquo;d rather define
what everything is.&rdquo; &ldquo;Father we would rather think for
ourselves, instead of always and only acknowledging the Movement of Your
infinite Mind &hellip; always behaving in deference to You.&rdquo;

And we talked about the fact when you made the decision to act on your
own, two things came into play: fear and guilt.

Now we&rsquo;ve talked about how fear and guilt can be used by you as
triggers to accomplishment&mdash;as the justification for improving
yourselves. And in that sense, fear and guilt are cast in a so-called
constructive light. But there&rsquo;s an aspect to it which is actually
its real aspect and it is not constructive. It is not comfortable. It is
not kind or loving or promotive of any good thing.

What you find behind the so-called positive use you&rsquo;re putting it
to, that it is nothing more than a terrorizer. It tells you that you
have denied God. And that therefore you are guilty of a profound sin.
And therefore you had better not approach the Father in any
way&mdash;don&rsquo;t even think about the Father in any way.

It scares you and does everything it can to promote ongoing fear so as
to prevent you from returning to the Father and instead promoting your
independent self so that you might become what the ego now tells you is
the Father&rsquo;s goal for you&mdash;to be an independent will
successfully and prove your worth, your value, and your validity.

And so, using terror, using fear of that which would solve your
problems, it goads you into defending yourself, protecting yourself and
getting your brothers and sisters who have also decided to try to be
independent, to join with you either through cooperation or
manipulation, to secure the &ldquo;brotherhood of man&rdquo; we&rsquo;ll
say,&mdash;these organisms that have nothing to do with God.

Now, my language is not too strong. The ego is a terrorizer and it
governs every single individuality who has gotten this imaginative
divorce from his Father and is ignoring his Father or her Father,
totally. The result is a life of suffering which is made somewhat
comfortable by the skillful manipulation of each other.

Now, the ego&mdash;the voice for fear&mdash;is constantly distracting
you from the real source of your problem. It convinces you that the
wrath of God awaits you and if you want to escape the wrath of God and
escape that fundamental problem you had better continue to defend and
protect yourself and engage in entirely selfish actions at the expense,
if necessary, of every one of your brothers and sisters.

This approach&mdash;this style of distraction&mdash;keeps you from
recognizing that it is the ego itself that is your problem. It points
the finger &ldquo;out there&rdquo; at your brothers and sisters&mdash;at
the countries in your world&mdash;at the political parties in your
countries. It points the finger out even more infinitely to God and
turns your existence into a constant state of self-protection fueled by
compulsive fear.

As a general rule, you don&rsquo;t feel it as starkly as it is actually.
But I will tell you, and I don&rsquo;t really need to tell you that
&ldquo;the times, they are a changing.&rdquo; And the starkness of evil,
the starkness of the mean-spirited distraction from what solves every
problem is no longer able to be experienced with as much comfort. And as
a result, most everyone to one degree or another is experiencing
heightened fear, together with heightened guilt. Because at the same
time that the ego points its finger at another and says &ldquo;they are
the problem,&rdquo; it also points the finger at you, and says
&ldquo;you are responsible for it.&rdquo; It even takes your spiritual
teachings and tells you that your thinking has brought it on you. You
are the culprit. You are guilty. And therefore, since there is no
infinite loving Source available to you, you are stuck with this
untenable situation, of being guilty and not being able to get free of
it.

Many of you, because of what is going on in the world scene or in
individual countries or in communities or in families or friendships,
many of you are finding yourselves experiencing fear, experiencing being
discounted&mdash;finding that what of value you are able to share is not
wanted. In fact, you are ridiculed and this undermines your stability
and your security even more than the general presence of fear and guilt.

And so there is more discouragement than usual. And it seems to be just
the way things are. The ego distracts you significantly enough that it
is almost impossible to remember that &ldquo;there is another way to
look at this.&rdquo; If you cannot remember that in the midst of a state
of fear, you will be stuck and you will be inclined to take steps based
on your misunderstanding of the nature of Being, and you will use force
in an act of desperate self-preservation that constitutes the out
picturing of further terrorism&mdash;terrorism upon whatever you are
acting against. And that magnifies the problem.

You must find a way to remember that there is another way to look at
this. You must find a way to remember that there is something that
we&rsquo;ve called, &ldquo;the two-step.&rdquo; You must find a way to
remember that there&rsquo;s something called, &ldquo;the holy
instant&rdquo; which is the bridge out of the insane distortion of your
mind that the voice for fear has created into the inherent unchangeable
divine sanity of your Being.

And then you must have the courage. You must find the willing&mdash;not
willful&mdash;the willing determination to plant your attention firmly
in the holy instant, in that place where you are saying, &ldquo;Father,
what is the truth here?&rdquo; &ldquo;Holy Spirit, what is the truth
here, separate and apart from what the voice for fear is
describing?&rdquo; &ldquo;What is the God&rsquo;s honest truth
here?&rdquo; &ldquo;What is God Being here?&rdquo; And then you must be
willing to stay there until you hear the Answer, without attempting to
provide the answer first, yourself.

Terrorism is a result of a disconnection with your Source, with your
Father, with that infinite divine Mind and infinite divine Presence,
which in Its Movement, constitutes Creation&mdash;constitutes everything
of which you are aware but of which you are experiencing a misperception
because you&rsquo;ve been listening to the voice for fear which will
tell you anything to get you to engage your personal will and forget to
shut it up and in the Silence turn away from the voice for fear to the
Father or the Holy Spirit truly wanting to know what the other way to
look at it is &hellip; what the Father&rsquo;s Way of seeing it, is.

&ldquo;Oh &hellip;&rdquo; the ego says, &ldquo;Well, you&rsquo;ve never
done that before. What makes you think you&rsquo;re going to be able to
have that experience now?&rdquo;

And so when you try&mdash;when you make a point of becoming still and
asking&mdash;your conditioning makes it difficult for you because
you&rsquo;ve been told that the wrath of God awaits you. You&rsquo;ve
been told that you&rsquo;re not divine. You&rsquo;ve been told that you
have no inherent worth and you have to earn it. And therefore there is
no justification whatsoever for your hearing the Voice for
Truth&mdash;for your hearing the Voice for God. And that makes it
difficult, that makes something that is utterly simple, difficult.

In the beginning when Paul was able to hear me initially, it did not
flow smoothly like it is right now and I had to remind him many times,
the answer is simpler than anything you&rsquo;re expecting. I had to
tell him that because it&rsquo;s the truth and because that would help
him relax and not try so hard to overcome a lack of skill that he
thought he must have to have which &ldquo;holy people&rdquo; have, but
not everyone.

Maybe you haven&rsquo;t experienced the Voice for Truth directly within
yourself yet, or maybe you have experienced it intermittently. But there
is little confidence that it could happen again. Well, that&rsquo;s no
reason to stop. Persistence will not give you the skill to do something
that&rsquo;s difficult. Persistence will wear down the resistance to
hearing. It will undo the strength of the belief you&rsquo;re
entertaining that says it won&rsquo;t work.

Now, you look at the world, you look at your communities, you look at
your families and you&rsquo;re confronted with situations that seem
unresolvable either because the members of the family or the community
can&rsquo;t see any alternative or believe that there can&rsquo;t
possibly be a viable alternative or because you yourself and your
conditioning are arguing against it.

But again, the answer is: step into the void. Step into that place where
you lack control, authority, or the knowledge it takes to resolve the
situation. Step into that &ldquo;not-knowing place&rdquo; with the
desire to have the knowledge needed, imparted to you, and do it, if for
no other reason than I am telling you that the Father waits. The Holy
Spirit&mdash;that which is nothing more than your right
Mind&mdash;waits. I wait. The Awakened Brotherhood waits to fill you up
with the Answers, with the resolutions, with the inspiration, with the
strength to move out of the territory&mdash;to move out of the
neighborhood in which terrorism lurks and seems to insert itself.

You know what? The Truth is true. It is true that you are the holy Son
or Daughter of God&mdash;the direct expression of the Father and nothing
less. And you are that right now. And it is the truth that you are that
right now in the middle of the Kingdom of Heaven right now, even though
the definitions of yourself and your world as provided by the voice for
fear has totally colored it, depriving you of the holy experience of
yourself, your body and your world.

The Ultimate is what you&rsquo;re right in the middle of and this is the
Truth. And it&rsquo;s the Truth that you forget when you&rsquo;re
overwhelmed by the voice for fear and you BELIEVE what it is saying
about your brothers and sisters and your world and yourself.

It is as though you&rsquo;re drugged into a stupor and you cannot think
clearly and you believe what you are thinking. And yet that is not your
natural state and it is not your perfect conscious experience of Being,
which cannot be taken away from you but which you can be distracted from
when you are not carefully choosing your teacher.

And so, one of the great lessons of A Course in Miracles is, that there
is another way to look at this&mdash;whatever it is. There is a way to
look at it and see the more of what God is Being right there than what
the voice for fear is telling you is there and causing you to commit
yourself to.

If you want to become free of fear, if you want to be in that place
where terrorism is not controlling you and manipulating you, you must
remember this fundamental fact: There is another way to look at
this&mdash;and then abandon the voice for fear. In other words, you must
arrive at a place within yourself right when the voice for fear is at
its loudest. And you must come to what seems like a totally irrational
position of believing that every compelling thing the voice for fear is
presenting you with is meaningless and does not deserve your attention
or emotional response! And then shut up. Turn to the Holy Spirit, engage
in the holy instant by saying, &ldquo;Father, Holy Spirit, what is the
truth here?&rdquo;

As I said, perhaps the bottom line significant point to be recognized,
which the Course presents is this: There is another way to look at this.
&ldquo;Ah,&rdquo; the ego could say, &ldquo;Well, what&rsquo;s new about
that? For centuries, forever, it&rsquo;s been a fact, there&rsquo;s
another way to look at this. I mean after all people walked to get
everywhere and they said, &lsquo;there&rsquo;s got to be another way to
look at this&rsquo; and so they started riding horses. And then they
said, &lsquo;there&rsquo;s got to be a better way than this, another way
to look at it&rsquo; and there were automobiles and then there were
planes and on and on.&rdquo; And in every area of human life, and human
endeavor there&rsquo;s been a constant overturning of the way things are
seen: &lsquo;there&rsquo;s another way to look at this.&rsquo;&rdquo;

Well, that&rsquo;s not what we&rsquo;re talking about. We&rsquo;re not
just talking about having some new creative mutual agreement for
everybody to manipulate each other with and hold each other in line
with, and control.

There is another way to look at this means: there is a way to look at
what I am seeing as a material body, as mortals, as a material world and
universe. There&rsquo;s another way for me to look at it than that, and
that is to look for and desire to experience the Kingdom of Heaven, the
actual Movement of Creation, right here, right now that the infinite
Mind that is God is, I&rsquo;m going to say, fabricating, or bringing
into an experienceable form (isn&rsquo;t the right word). Well,
we&rsquo;ll say, bringing it into an experienceable experience that
embodies all that the Father is, including the fact that because God is
Love, every aspect of the experienceable experience is imbued with Love.
Which is experienced by every part of Creation, so that you are
experienced by the flowers and the trees and the stars and the elements
as the radiance of Love loving them, just as they are experienceable by
you as the radiance of Love that they are, because it&rsquo;s all the
infinite expression, the infinite experienceable experience that
embodies, that expresses the fundamental Love that God is, that the
infinite Mind is that is Moving and looking like all of Creation.

That&rsquo;s the different way to look at this. That is the different
way.

So be sure that you are not limiting what you expect to experience when
you say, &ldquo;There is another way to look at this.&rdquo;

Now, it&rsquo;s very simple, from the standpoint of everyday human
experience at the moment, when you are overwhelmed by fear and guilt and
self-criticism that always accompanies it, because that is what will
distract you from returning to the Father, because you expect his wrath
to meet you, when you remember to look for and be opened to infinite
holiness, but you&rsquo;re doing it in the midst of the onslaught of
fear and guilt, you may well have to be diligent, determined &hellip;
not determined to make a change happen, but determined in the form of
self-discipline to listen for the Voice for Truth and nothing else. And
when you catch yourself distracted [snaps his fingers] as in a
meditation, bring your attention back. And stay with the Teacher who
will reveal the Truth about everything and the Truth about You.

I am not meaning to imply in any way that hard times are upon everyone
or that it&rsquo;s going to get worse like &ldquo;the end times.&rdquo;
I am simply pointing out that the illusion is wearing thin. What the
voice for fear teaches is incapable of registering with everyone as
significantly as it used to as though it were truth. And this is felt as
a disturbance, because after all, it would be nice to keep the
status-quo. I mean after all, there has been a certain amount of
reasonable amount of peace for all these centuries. But the illusion is
wearing thin, which means that you&rsquo;re faced with a very practical
help in your Awakening. And this very practical help is that remaining
asleep isn&rsquo;t going to work anymore.

You&rsquo;re going to lose what you thought the status-quo was. Thank
God. This can be discouraging or you can, in a mature way, look at it
and say, &ldquo;Okay, no more fooling around. I can&rsquo;t dally with
the ego any longer while my divinity is held in trust as the Holy
Spirit, unavailable to me as my conscious experience of my individuality
and identity. I can&rsquo;t maintain that anymore and so I&rsquo;m going
to stop. And I am going to make commitment to remember the fundamental
point: There is another way to look at this.&rdquo; And then act upon
that by engaging in the holy instant, practicing the two-step.

Now, a simple piece of advice: When you join with the Holy Spirit and
you listen for Its guidance and the coming together of all that you Are
begins to occur so that the Holy Spirit is not something different from
your conscious experience of Being, you may find, as I said earlier,
that others will say, &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t want what you have to give.
What you are calling clarity is nonsense.&rdquo; You know, just as you
when you are in the thick of your relationship with the voice for fear
think that returning to the Father is not going to be your salvation,
when that happens and there is a refusal to value what you are sharing,
be wise and ask further of your connection with the Holy
Spirit&mdash;that is nothing more than your right Mind&mdash;whether or
not you should persist or whether you should turn your back and walk
away and find those who are ready to embrace and enjoy the benefit and
the growth that comes from what you have to give.

It&rsquo;s very simple. The more who Awaken, the fewer there will be who
are asleep. The fewer who are asleep means that the strength of the
mutual agreement is weakened. And so instead of working with the
hardcore committed individuals who insist upon listening only to the
voice for fear and doing little to lessen the strength of the mutual
agreement, because there is no real contribution to the number of those
Awakening, go to those who are hungry for the Truth and facilitate their
Awakening. Because, if I may put it this way, that&rsquo;s the only
thing that will break the back of the terrorizers. That&rsquo;s the only
thing that will take away the strength of the mutual agreement that
makes it seem reasonable for those who are addicted to the voice for
fear to continue. &ldquo;Oh, but she&rsquo;s my mother. Oh, but
she&rsquo;s my daughter. Oh, but she&rsquo;s my wife. I must stay and
fight with her will, to overcome it and weaken it so that she sees the
truth!&rdquo;

Don&rsquo;t get me wrong, always be willing to share the Truth. But
don&rsquo;t dedicate yourself to those who are dedicated to not hearing
it &hellip; another aspect of maturity that will contribute to the
speedup, the acceleration of the breakdown of the mutual agreements that
keep the voice for fear alive. That is Love &hellip; that is Love.

So, what am I saying? I am saying that the good news is, that it is now
becoming increasingly difficult to engage in and maintain illusion. And
this means that you will have to be willing to abandon your use of
manipulation and control to keep you safe &hellip; and let it push you
&hellip; let yourself be pushed by the demands of the times you&rsquo;re
in, to shift from your exercise of control out of fear and guilt to an
inner state of innocence and humility that will flow with the Movement
of Mind&mdash;the infinite Mind that is the Father&mdash;so that the
Movement of Mind that constitutes Creation now &hellip; now &hellip; now
&hellip; now registers with you as what It is, instead of what the voice
for fear had been telling you it was.

Some old habits will have to be dropped: The habit of ruminating over
the awfulness of the situation here or there or elsewhere, shock at the
boldness of evil. All of this distracts you from noticing how you are
using your mind and keeps you from recognizing the simple step that
needs to be taken.

&ldquo;Oh, there is another way to look at this. I am going to engage in
the two-step. I&rsquo;m going to employ the holy instant with diligence
and dedication. I&rsquo;m going to do that and nothing else. And if I
find myself waffling back and forth, I&rsquo;m going to catch myself and
rededicate myself to doing only that&mdash;only listening for the Voice
for Truth until I hear it. And then I&rsquo;m going to continue to
listen here &hellip; listen here &hellip; listen and hear so that the
way I Be is in perfect harmony with the way the infinite Mind that is
God, Moves and I can see it and recognize God in it, and know my place,
which is always to defer to God. Because in deferring to the way things
are, I experience the way things are without fear and guilt and with a
full comprehension and understanding of the absolute divinity of
everything that is going on right here and right now. And I no longer
suffer from the idea that it&rsquo;s somewhere off after I die.&rdquo;

This is the good news! It may sound as though I was unnecessarily
repetitive tonight but I know that there are going to be many occasions
very often in the middle of the night, in the darkness where fear takes
over, that many will listen to what I have just said. And my constant
elucidation of the Truth will wear down their commitment to their fear
and help release them. And I know that every one of you who has been
listening as I have been speaking&mdash;we will say live&mdash;have
likewise been moved, even if you weren&rsquo;t in the darkness of
despair at this very moment.

I love you all. And I look forward to being with you next time.

