---
title: Jan 15, 2006
ref: "T11.3 The Investment in Reality"
alink: "/acim/text/11/chap1103/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who is joining us on the Internet.

Well, I hope you didn&rsquo;t have too offensive a week, you know,
having to take a look at when you were taking offense at things. It was
a worthy endeavor, and it will continue to be a worthy endeavor.

I&rsquo;m sure you found that there were many, many different kinds of
occasions which gave rise to offense, and not all of them really bad. I
mean, if a mate or a lover comes up feeling truly affectionate,
extending love, but he or she does it just as you sat down to do
something you had been waiting all week to do, it can be offensive.
&ldquo;This is not the time. Don&rsquo;t you care about me?&rdquo;
[laughing] Even though &ldquo;caring about you&rdquo; is what&rsquo;s
being expressed. &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t you care about my wants? I&rsquo;ve
been waiting to do this. I&rsquo;ve been putting this off all week
because I have been being loving to you.&rdquo; You see? So not all
occasions for offense arise out of calls for love&mdash;meaning behavior
that isn&rsquo;t loving but at the bottom line is a call for love.

So it boils down to, as I said, the question, &ldquo;Why are you
choosing to employ offense at that particular moment? What is the
self-serving benefit you are trying to achieve?&rdquo;

Well, you may have noticed that there are some days where something
offends you that wouldn&rsquo;t offend you at all on another day. And
you chalk it up to, &ldquo;Well, I&rsquo;ve had more sleep. I&rsquo;m
more rested. I was a little on edge and exhausted yesterday, or the day
before.&rdquo; You find some reason for the difference, except
it&rsquo;s never the real reason. The real reason that you&rsquo;re less
offended or not offended at all on certain days is because on those days
you have chosen for and valued your peace more than anything else. And
having valued it, you have placed yourself in it. You have allowed it to
be the presence, the underlying spectrum of the way you&rsquo;re looking
at everything.

Now I&rsquo;m going to carry it a bit further. You always are only faced
with two choices, two apparent ways to be. One choice is to choose to
listen to the Voice for Truth, and the other is to choose to listen to
the voice for fear. Okay, now we can take that and redefine
it&mdash;because that&rsquo;s still very general&mdash;and we can
redefine the Voice for Truth as the Holy Spirit, and we can redefine the
voice for fear as the ego. This can still be confusing though, because
you can envision them as &ldquo;things&rdquo; different from you, and
you can either listen to this thing or you can listen to that thing, and
you are something separate from both.

But the fact is, as we&rsquo;ve been discussing, the Voice for Truth,
which is the Holy Spirit, is what? Nothing more than your right Mind.
Well, likewise the voice for fear, which is the ego, is nothing more
than the sense of mind you have made up and identified as yourself,
constituted with definitions that you likewise have made up, and
agreements about definitions that you have entered into with others who
are choosing to operate from the standpoint of a made-up mind
themselves.

So the ego is you, you might say, in your wrong mind, and the Holy
Spirit is you in your right Mind, except&mdash;let&rsquo;s be
clear&mdash;the &ldquo;wrong mind&rdquo; isn&rsquo;t really a mind at
all. It&rsquo;s just a collection of ideas that you say, &ldquo;Well,
these ideas &hellip; &rdquo;&mdash;which it happens aren&rsquo;t true at
all or real, but&mdash;&ldquo; &hellip; these ideas I am experiencing,
and therefore they must be going on in a mind, because I&rsquo;m
conscious of them and they are going on, and therefore they must be
going on in my private, personal mind.&rdquo; You see? So you&rsquo;ve
made this up and you believe it; except that it&rsquo;s all nonsense.
The fact that you believe it, however, means that you make an investment
in everything that you&rsquo;ve made up. And your investment you work
diligently at, so as to make this sense of mind more and more real. And
you have to work at making it real because it is pure fantasy and never
will be anything more.

So, if things get confusing to you as you&rsquo;re thinking about all of
the things we&rsquo;ve discussed and everything that the Course has to
say, if things seems to get too complex and too overwhelming, remind
yourself, remember, you only have two choices available to you in the
state of Being. And these two choices are the Voice for Truth, or the
voice for fear.

The Voice for Truth is your right Mind, which is perfectly cohesive,
perfectly integrated, perfectly singular, perfectly indivisible, but
all-inclusive. And the voice for fear is a conglomeration of definitions
that you have put together which is no mind at all, but with the
investment of your faith in it, it seems to be real. The Voice for
Truth, which is you minus the appendage of an imagined mind, are
perfectly clear, are perfectly at peace, are perfectly able to see
everything that is going on, everything that confronts you as God
appearing, and nothing less. But when you&rsquo;re giving your
allegiance to this appendage, this imagined appendage, it causes
everything that you experience to be offensive, to be that which calls
for you to constantly be in a state of defense, ready to be offended,
ready to magnify the differences between you and everything else.

So we&rsquo;re still talking about getting your own mind straight,
getting your own head on straight, before entering into the, let&rsquo;s
say, arena of being an agent for change for your Brother. Being aware of
when you are offended and examining why it is you&rsquo;re choosing to
be offended, is a form of mental discipline that will enable you to
catch yourself before you express the offensiveness and choose for the
other voice, choose for the other teacher, so as not to seem to
reinforce the appendage, but to, rather, allow that which is your Real
Mind to fulfill itself as you right where you are, in that moment, in
that place, in that circumstance.

Okay, let&rsquo;s go to the book. The next section is called:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*The Investment in Reality*[^1]
</div>

Hmm. [flipping through pages in the book] I don&rsquo;t see anything
here coming up that talks about &hellip; [flipping through more pages in
the book] note we have &ldquo;The Sane Curriculum&rdquo; coming up, that
sounds pretty good&mdash;nothing here though about the investment in
offense; nothing about investment in all the wonderful things
you&rsquo;ve made up. Hmm. Interesting.

Okay.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I once asked if you were willing to sell all you have and give to the
poor and follow me.
</div>

Now we really could put these in a different order that would reflect
the truth a little bit better. And indeed, it is what I meant when I
said it the first time, but I&rsquo;ve been saying it over and over in
every encounter I&rsquo;ve had with any of you. It could say:

I once asked if you were willing to follow me. In other words, abandon
your independence and yield to something other than your so-called
private authority and sell all you have.  Meaning abandon all of the
definitions you&rsquo;ve made up, all the confidences you have about
what everything is and what it&rsquo;s for and who you are.

And, thirdly, give to the poor. In other words, shift from getting to
giving.

And indeed, all of you, I know, would love to get to the &ldquo;giving
to the poor&rdquo; part. That&rsquo;s the fun part, right? Selling all
you have, following me, that&rsquo;s not the fun part, but, oh boy,
giving to the poor. See, the ego, the way you&rsquo;re conditioned, the
way you have conditioned yourself to think, and the way everyone else
has helped condition you to think, is that you and someone else are
different. And of course, it&rsquo;s better if you&rsquo;re in a
position to &ldquo;give to the others&rdquo; than to &ldquo;have to
receive from others.&rdquo; Right? Nothing quite so insulting as to be
the one who is &ldquo;in need.&rdquo;

Well, it&rsquo;s going to be disappointing for you, because in the
process of getting your head on straight, you&rsquo;re going to arrive
at the awareness that &ldquo;there aren&rsquo;t really any poor.&rdquo;
And the recognition that &ldquo;there aren&rsquo;t any poor&rdquo; is
the gift you give.

But it&rsquo;s already given in the recognition. You don&rsquo;t have a
recognition that then allows you to still have poor to give to. The
reason you arrive at a point of recognizing there aren&rsquo;t any poor
to give&mdash;out of your great beneficence&mdash;to, is because you
discover that you and your Brother are both the Christ already, and you
insist upon operating from that standpoint. And so you end up being in a
position of relating to your Brother in acknowledgment of What He
Is&mdash;not in illuminating What He Is to what he isn&rsquo;t. In other
words, the transaction, the communion is complete in the recognition of
What He Is, the acknowledgment of What He Is, because you had no other
agenda on your mind for yourself, or for him, than to see God there from
God&rsquo;s eyes.

So don&rsquo;t jump to the conclusion that, oh boy, now we&rsquo;re
coming to the part here about helping the poor, about being agent for
change for my Brother. No, we&rsquo;re still at the point of getting
your heads on straight.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I once asked if you were willing to sell all you have and give to the
poor and follow me. This is what I meant: If you had no investment in
anything in this world, you could teach the poor where their treasure
IS.
</div>

What&rsquo;s that mean, &ldquo;if you had no investment in anything in
this world&rdquo;? The only thing you could have investment in, in this
world, are the definitions that you have made up about it which have
caused you to be quote &ldquo;like God&rdquo; unquote, and given you in
your independence a credibility that you don&rsquo;t really have. If you
had no investment in any of the definitions you applied to this world,
what? You would be free of your bondage to those definitions. And that
would free you up from the definition you have of yourself. And what? A
miracle could happen. A sudden shift of perception could happen in you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you had no investment in anything in this world, you could teach the
poor where their treasure IS.
</div>

Why? Because you would have found where your treasure was.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The poor are merely those who have invested wrongly, and they are poor
indeed!
</div>

They&rsquo;re without a Birthright, aren&rsquo;t they? Every one of you
is experiencing existing minus your Birthright. Why? Because you do not
believe you are the direct expression of God. You do not believe that
you have a Source outside of yourself, I&rsquo;ll put that way, a Source
other than your own best ideas about yourself or a source that is purely
physical and organismic, like coming from a sperm and an egg. And not
knowing who your Father is, not knowing what your Source is, you
don&rsquo;t know what your Birthright is and you don&rsquo;t know What
You Are. And that is, indeed, poor. Without your Birthright, you are
nothing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The poor are merely those who have invested wrongly, and they are poor
indeed!
</div>

The orphans, [said in a pitying voice] new orphans are merely those who
have no Father and are without a Birthright.

Okay.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Because they are in need it is given you to help them, since YOU are
among them.
</div>

Now it is given you to help them as you are abandoning your devotion to
your orphanhood and are letting God back in, and are choosing to join
with the Holy Spirit and to abandon your absolute, but imaginary,
authority over your life and over your world. Because those who confront
you who don&rsquo;t know of their Birthright are in need, it is given
you to help them since you are among them. You see, don&rsquo;t leave it
up to God. Don&rsquo;t leave it up to the Holy Spirit. Don&rsquo;t leave
it up to somebody else. You&rsquo;re here. You&rsquo;re here to make the
gift of the clarity you are letting in. You&rsquo;re here to be what you
will be when you aren&rsquo;t finding value in offense.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Consider how perfectly your lesson would be learned if you were
unwilling to SHARE their poverty.
</div>

Let me give you an example. Every time Paul sits down at a Gathering, he
turns to me. He doesn&rsquo;t turn to you. He doesn&rsquo;t look to you
to learn of you or of life. He turns to me. He doesn&rsquo;t turn to
himself. He abandons this one he thinks he is; this one with all the
definitions that he uses when he&rsquo;s not joined, when he thinks
he&rsquo;s alone, and when he thinks he&rsquo;s in that marvelous
egotistical position of authority. You see? And so he turns to me, and
with me he is present with you. When any of you asks a question, he does
not assume that he is supposed to answer it. He doesn&rsquo;t assume
that you&rsquo;re asking him. And he listens to me respond.

Now when you turn to your right Mind and ask, you get the same answers.
And you&rsquo;re not making them up. You see? And you&rsquo;re more
interested, you&rsquo;re more devoted to the unity of awareness that you
experience when you are listening for the Truth from your right Mind.
And if you can&rsquo;t quite make that come together and happen, then go
ahead and say that you are listening to the Holy Spirit, because you do
not place any limits conceptually on the Holy Spirit.

No matter what words any of you use to ask your questions, your words
express your ignorance. They do not express clarity, no matter how
clearly you express them, no matter how intelligently you put together
the meaning you&rsquo;re trying to convey so that you might get out of a
problem. So it would be foolish for Paul to listen to you and the words
you are saying in order to grasp what you&rsquo;re trying to mean. But
your meaning is there. You are expressing words about a distress
you&rsquo;re having. But at the bottom line what you&rsquo;re saying is,
&ldquo;Here is the way it is looking to me, and I do not know how to
look at it or see it differently. Can you help me see it
differently?&rdquo; You don&rsquo;t say that because you want the answer
to specifically address the problem &ldquo;as you see it&rdquo; and what
the solution will have to be in order to be a solution. And so
you&rsquo;re still caught in the tininess of your mindset. You see?

So, is Paul going to shift his devotion, his attention, to what
you&rsquo;re saying, and his best interpretation of what you&rsquo;re
meaning? Is he going to honor you enough to be so present with you that
he doesn&rsquo;t bother to join with me? No. That&rsquo;s not the way
Paul works. The devotion has to remain with That which is Singular, That
which is Awake, That which knows the Truth, in order to
speak/communicate/extend the awareness that undoes the confusion that
&ldquo;you asking the question&rdquo; have expressed, so that you are no
longer confused.

Now let&rsquo;s say that Paul has done a weekend workshop, been active
for two full days participating in the &ldquo;question and answer&rdquo;
process that goes on. And at the end of the second day, it&rsquo;s over,
but early the next morning someone who is attending the Gathering is
still there and comes up and says, &ldquo;Can I just ask one more
question? I have a really, really important question.&rdquo; And Paul
says in his mind, &ldquo;God, give a break. I mean, don&rsquo;t you have
any respect for me? Don&rsquo;t you think I deserve any time for
myself?&rdquo; You see? Uh, oh. Offense! Offense! Offense!

Paul obviously is not joined any longer. Paul is there in his own
full-blown right. And what is he engaged in? Self-protection. &ldquo;Oh,
don&rsquo;t get too close and don&rsquo;t ask too much of me. Give me a
break. Don&rsquo;t ask for me to be fully conscious. Don&rsquo;t ask for
me to be in that place where [small laugh] everything flows and
everything is wonderful, and transformation occurs and healing occurs.
Don&rsquo;t ask me to be there. Stand back, you who are different from
me but weren&rsquo;t different from me yesterday.&rdquo;

You see? When he does that or when you do it with each other,
you&rsquo;re both coming from the place of poverty. You&rsquo;re both
coming from the place where you&rsquo;re minus your Birthright. And you
confirm your poverty to each other.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Consider &hellip;
</div>

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Consider how perfectly your lesson would be learned if you were
unwilling to SHARE their poverty.
</div>

And by sharing it, confirm it.

Consider how perfectly your lesson would be learned if you were willing
to find no occasion to not fulfill your function, which is to recognize
God there, and not suffer from seeing less than God there.

See, again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Consider how perfectly &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; whose lesson?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; your lesson &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; we&rsquo;re talking about someone else seeming to have a
problem and needing help and asking for help, expressing their poverty.

But it says:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Consider how perfectly your lesson &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you see, we&rsquo;re still talking about getting your own head
on straight.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Consider how perfectly your lesson would be learned if you were
unwilling to SHARE their poverty.
</div>

In other words, if you were unwilling to abandon your union with the
Voice for Truth. How beautifully would your lesson be learned if you
found no occasion worthy of shutting your ears to the Voice for Truth,
to your right Mind. That would be a grand lesson because it would mean
you would be moving into the Integrity of your Being, the Wholeness of
your Being, the Holiness of your Being, and finding no reason to be
fascinated with anything less.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For poverty is lack, and there is but ONE lack &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; It&rsquo;s the absence of your Birthright.
That&rsquo;s the only lack there is. And what is your Birthright?
It&rsquo;s your inheritance from your Source.

&ldquo;Oh. But I&rsquo;ve spent lifetimes developing my capacity to be
my source. And you want me to abandon all of that? You&rsquo;re telling
me it&rsquo;s nothing but a bunch of illusions? You want me to abandon
that? You&rsquo;re going to have to give me a pretty good reason.&rdquo;
Well, the only reason I can give you is your experience of life right
now. Is it full of glory? Is it full of peace? Is it full of abundance,
wholeness, invulnerability? Or is it far less than that? Now if it being
far less than that, is of no concern to you, fine. Okay. But I&rsquo;ll
be here once you find it to be less than you want.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For poverty is lack, and there is but ONE lack since there is but ONE
need.
</div>

What&rsquo;s the one need? It&rsquo;s for the phone to ring, and God to
pick up the phone and hear you say, &ldquo;Hello. Dad? Hi, Dad. I
remember You. I know who You are and I know Who I am, and I&rsquo;m
yours. And I know I&rsquo;m not You, but I know that You are All There
Is of me. And I want to be the way things are with You from now
on.&rdquo; That&rsquo;s the one need. Annul the divorce. That&rsquo;s
the one need.

Now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Suppose a brother insists on having you do something you think you do
not want to do.
</div>

&ldquo;Hi, sweetheart. Give me a hug. I just love you so much.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Oh, come on. I just sat down to get to work on this thing I
haven&rsquo;t attended to for a week because I was taking care of you so
much.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Suppose a brother insists on having you do something you think you do
not want to do.
</div>

&ldquo;Oh, come on, honey. You can do it later. Just spend ten or
fifteen minutes with me.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Come on. You can&rsquo;t get blood from a turnip. You can&rsquo;t
get water from a stone. Let me just do this. I&rsquo;ve been waiting and
waiting and waiting.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Oh, come on, honey. Come on. I promise if you spend fifteen or
twenty minutes with me, I won&rsquo;t bother you.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Suppose a brother insists on having you do something you think you do
not want to do. The very fact of his insistence should tell you that he
believes salvation lies in it.
</div>

In other words, if there is inflexibility there, it means that
there&rsquo;s a strong intent and that in some way salvation or real
good will come of it.

Now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you insist on refusing &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; if you insist on refusing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and experience a quick response of opposition&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and I&rsquo;m going to add: Within yourself &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you are believing that YOUR salvation lies in NOT doing it.
</div>

And you can understand, at that moment you think your salvation lies in
getting to do this thing you&rsquo;ve been waiting to do all week. And
there&rsquo;s more good in that for you to experience than the
alternative that&rsquo;s being offered.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You, then, are making the same mistake that he is, and are making his
error real to BOTH of you.
</div>

Now, what&rsquo;s the error that you&rsquo;re making real? The error
that you&rsquo;re making real is that you not in your right Mind, you
not in a joined place, have agendas that are real, and which if they are
fulfilled or if they are brought to completion, will constitute
fulfillment for you as an independent agent. And so you are by your act
confirming your independence, your orphanhood, and also confirming the
independence and orphanhood of the one who&rsquo;s inviting you to spend
a little time engaging in affection.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You, then, are making the same mistake that he is, and are making his
error real to BOTH of you. Insistence means investment, and what you
invest in is ALWAYS related to your notion of salvation. The question is
always two-fold; first, WHAT is to be saved, and second, HOW can it be
saved?
</div>

Now again, to simplify things, remember that you only have two apparent
ways in which to be; two choices. One is to listen for, to listen to, to
join with the Voice for Truth, or to listen to the voice for fear. The
answer to &ldquo;What is to be saved, and how can it be saved?&rdquo;
will be different depending upon which of the two voices you&rsquo;re
choosing to listen to.

If you&rsquo;re listening to the voice for fear, what is to be saved is
your pride. What is to be saved is your ass. What is to be saved is your
face. What is to be saved is your position&mdash;the position you have
defined for yourself and that you have spent your life trying to get
other people to agree to and cooperate with. And how can it be saved? By
asserting this so-called private authority with superiority so as to
overcome the other&rsquo;s attempt to meet his or her need, and save his
or her face, his or her pride, his or her feelings of worthiness.

But if you&rsquo;re listening to the Voice for Truth, what is to be
saved? What is to be confirmed? The endless, uninterrupted movement and
expression of Love that is not self-seeking, but embraces all forever
without hesitation or reservation. What is to be saved is the infinite
way things work, the beautiful way things work, that do not fit
definitions, but are themselves that which give meaning to God; that
which embody meanings that God is expressing and being; that which
discloses, uncovers and illuminates the glory of what God is, what Good
is.

So the answers are different depending upon the voice you are choosing
to listen to.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Whenever you become angry with a brother&hellip;
</div>

Oh, wait a minute. Who is this you? Well, if the word
&ldquo;angry&rdquo; is in there, it is obviously the independent one,
the so-called independent one; the one who authorizes things with glee.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Whenever you become angry with a brother, for WHATEVER reason, you are
believing that the EGO is to be saved&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and specifically your ego &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and to be saved by ATTACK.
</div>

In other words, by means of offense. Wow.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If HE &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your brother &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; attacks you are agreeing with this belief, and if YOU attack
you are reinforcing it.
</div>

And you&rsquo;re both caught in the illusion and you&rsquo;re both
confirming a lie. You&rsquo;re both confirming a dream. And you&rsquo;re
both stuck in it, even though &ldquo;you&rdquo; are not really in it at
all, because you haven&rsquo;t stopped being the Christ. You&rsquo;ve
just forgotten that you are the Christ.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
REMEMBER THAT THOSE WHO ATTACK ARE POOR.
</div>

In other words, minus their Birthright, minus the conscious awareness of
who and what they are because of what their Source, their Father is.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Their poverty asks for gifts, NOT for further impoverishment.
</div>

Their poverty asks for you not to come from the same place they&rsquo;re
coming from which will confirm their poorness, their poverty.
That&rsquo;s why you&rsquo;re taught, you&rsquo;re told, that
you&rsquo;re faced with one of two things&mdash;Love, or the call for
love&mdash;so that you might remember that poor behavior is not
something for you to personally react to, but for you to be able to,
from a joined place, respond with love for. You&rsquo;re to remember
that the poor behavior is not an attempt to control private, personal,
authoritative, little you, or to hurt your feelings, but it is a call
for release from the misunderstanding, the misperceptions that are
causing the poor behavior to be expressed.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Their poverty asks for gifts&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that which will replace the poverty, that which will uncover
the fact that the poverty is illegitimate; which they can&rsquo;t see at
the moment and which they&rsquo;re being crushed by.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Their poverty asks for gifts, NOT for further impoverishment. You who
could help them are surely acting destructively if you accept their
poverty as YOURS.
</div>

Like the Monday morning after a weekend Gathering, somebody walks up and
asks for one extra question of me through Paul. They&rsquo;re expressing
a need. They are sharing their experience of poverty. And if Paul says,
&ldquo;I&rsquo;m sorry, but I deserve some time off,&rdquo; he&rsquo;s
responding from his poverty, and both are impoverished more.

You are surely &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You who could help them are surely acting destructively if you accept
their poverty as YOURS. If you had not invested as THEY had, it would
never occur to you to overlook their need.
</div>

Well, the ego&rsquo;s retort is, &ldquo;What do you mean, overlook their
need? What about me overlooking my need? I need some rest from being on
the ball. I need some rest from being clear. I need some time to do
things I want to do, like sleep in, not be at the beck and call of
everything.&rdquo;

Why, friends, the whole Universe, all of Creation calls to you at this
moment to see it for what it is. And from your tininess, you think,
&ldquo;Oh. Overwhelming. Universal demands are being made upon
me.&rdquo; Yes, to come back into your right Mind and enjoy the
effortless, natural experience of being able to recognize God in
everything, and rejoice in the experience, without reservation, without
limitation, as your daily conscious experience.

Now we come to a sentence that is greatly misinterpreted.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Recognize WHAT DOES NOT MATTER, and if your brothers ask you for
something &ldquo;outrageous,&rdquo; do it BECAUSE it does not matter.
</div>

And I&rsquo;ll tell you that very often that sentence is taken and
responded with, &ldquo;Well, of course, the whole world is an illusion.
If my Brother asks me to do something outrageous, like sit in the car
outside the Seven Eleven with the engine running while he goes in and
picks up a little extra cash. Hey, of course, it&rsquo;s outrageous but,
hey, the whole world is an illusion anyway. It doesn&rsquo;t
matter.&rdquo;

I&rsquo;m going to come back to our illustration of when Paul is as he
is right now with you, but being with you from his union with me. When
you say something like, &ldquo;Sit in the car outside the Seven Eleven
while I pick up a little extra cash,&rdquo; which is another way of
saying, &ldquo;Help me find a way to screw my fellowman out of a few
extra dollars by striking a really good deal, a really good business
deal here, Raj,&rdquo; [small laugh] Paul has to make a distinction
between what matters and what doesn&rsquo;t matter.

And what doesn&rsquo;t matter is what you&rsquo;re saying. What
doesn&rsquo;t matter is how you&rsquo;re saying it. What doesn&rsquo;t
matter is whether what you&rsquo;re saying makes any sense or not. What
matters is that you&rsquo;re feeling a need and you need to be free of
it, and for him not to be fazed by the experience of need that
you&rsquo;re talking about, and to stay with me where the answer
is&mdash;whatever it might be, however unexpected it might be to you,
however far from the subject &ldquo;the answer that relieves&rdquo;
might seem to be from the question that was asked. You see?

So Paul has to recognize what does not matter. And if you ask for
something outrageous, do it. Do what? Respond from the place of
Wholeness, respond from the union with me, respond from the union with
the Holy Spirit, because that&rsquo;s what does matter, because
what&rsquo;s happening is not what appears to be happening. What&rsquo;s
happening is a call for love.

It seems to say, &ldquo;Please recognize the seriousness and the reality
of my dilemma. And please give me the answer within the context of my
dilemma and within the context of the mutually-agreed definitions about
how things work in this particular arena of activity that I&rsquo;m
engaged in.&rdquo; In other words, &ldquo;Answer my question from within
the box I&rsquo;m in.&rdquo;

That question doesn&rsquo;t matter. If Paul tries to make it matter, he
will not be able to hear me, and he will not be able to hear the answer
that negates the question by replacing it with what works, by replacing
it with the way things Are, in which the experience of need is not real
and doesn&rsquo;t actually exist, so that a shift of perception can
occur. And &ldquo;you who are asking the question&rdquo; find yourself
free of the dilemma because you have clarity from Wholeness.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Recognize WHAT DOES NOT MATTER, and if your brothers ask you for
something &ldquo;outrageous,&rdquo; do it BECAUSE it does not matter.
Refuse, and your opposition establishes that it DOES matter to you.
</div>

Now who would refuse? Not someone joined. The one who would refuse is
one who is likewise caught up in his or her own sense of independence
and authority, and thereby, necessarily a need for self-protection.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Refuse, and your opposition establishes that it DOES matter to you.
</div>

In other words, that &ldquo;what doesn&rsquo;t matter&rdquo; does matter
to you.

The moment Paul begins to feel empathy for &ldquo;the person&rdquo;
asking the question, &ldquo;the person&rdquo; experiencing the dilemma,
he loses the connection with me and immediately feels his own personal
incapacity to respond, and as a result, goes into a state of
self-protection. And usually the state of self-protection involves a
string of judgments that can explain just exactly to the person with the
problem why they&rsquo;re having the problem. But this solves nothing.
It&rsquo;s not an answer. It&rsquo;s a way of dealing with the situation
so as to bring the interaction to an end swiftly, so that the discomfort
of being confronted with an inability to have the answer can come to an
end, and Paul, or you, or anyone else, can get on with something a
little more pleasant than the close-up awareness of an incapacity to be
the answer all by yourself. And thus, Paul or you, and whoever else is
involved, are further impoverished, because a declaration, an insistence
has been expressed that seals the problem, solidifies it more solidly.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is only YOU, therefore, who have made the request outrageous&hellip;
</div>

You see? The fellow who&rsquo;s been being loving all week and is
finally getting to the thing he&rsquo;s been looking forward to doing
for himself all week, finds his partner&rsquo;s request for a little
loving attention and for him to be the recipient of affection, he finds
that to be outrageous. Outrageous. Offensive.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is only YOU, therefore, who have made the request outrageous&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you see? But not the Divine One that you are. The one listening
to the voice for fear&mdash;the ego&mdash;and who is engaged in
selfishness.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is only YOU, therefore, who have made the request outrageous, for
nothing can BE asked of you&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what does that mean? You might understand it better, because I
know you can see that Paul does not think anything is being asked
&ldquo;of him&rdquo; by virtue of your being here eager to hear. But if
things go normally, ten minutes after this meeting is over, if you come
to ask Paul a question, he will think you&rsquo;re asking it of him, and
he may or may not be happy about answering it. But nothing can be asked
of him, even though all of you find yourself appearing to be
&ldquo;asked of.&rdquo; But it will only look that way and be
experienced that way by you if you are not joined, if you&rsquo;re not
connecting with your Birthright.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is only YOU, therefore, who have made the request outrageous, for
nothing can BE asked of you, and every request of a brother is for YOU.
</div>

I just told you a moment ago that everything in Creation looks to you
for the recognition of God in it. All your Brother can be is present
&ldquo;for&rdquo; you, whether he&rsquo;s whining or whether he&rsquo;s
laughing with joy. Because what&rsquo;s really there is part of Creation
inviting you to see what it really is&mdash;to find God
there&mdash;which you have to make a choice to see. And you make the
choice to see it by choosing which teacher, which voice, you&rsquo;re
listening to. &ldquo;Holy Spirit, what is really happening here? What is
God&rsquo;s Truth here? What is God being here?&rdquo;

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is only YOU, therefore, who have made the request &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; any request &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; outrageous, for nothing can BE asked of you, and every request
of a brother is for YOU.
</div>

It&rsquo;s on your behalf. It&rsquo;s asking you to reflect back what
they aren&rsquo;t able to see yet that is causing them to feel lack.

Have you ever heard anyone who says, &ldquo;Well, I know this is exactly
the way things are,&rdquo; or who speaks in declarative sentences, who
later you find out was using that form of speech as a
question&mdash;which had never occurred to you was a question until
perhaps someone else says, &ldquo;Well, you know, this is the way I have
experienced what you&rsquo;re talking about, and it&rsquo;s a little bit
different from what you&rsquo;re saying,&rdquo; and after this different
view has been expressed, the person who had made this declarative
pronouncement says, &ldquo;I really appreciate that because it never
occurred to me to look at it that way before. Thank you.&rdquo; You had
come to the conclusion that the declaration was a final pronouncement, a
firm position. And it wasn&rsquo;t. It was a way of opening up a
conversation that lacked any invitation to it because it was made as a
statement, as a declaration. You see?

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is only YOU, therefore, who have made the request outrageous, for
nothing can BE asked of you, and every request of a brother is for YOU.
Why would you insist in DENYING him? For to do so is to deny yourself
and impoverish both.
</div>

Now I&rsquo;ve gone over that so many times, it&rsquo;s got to be clear
to you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
HE &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; here it is.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
HE is asking for salvation, as YOU are.
</div>

&ldquo;Well, it sure didn&rsquo;t sound like he was asking for salvation
to me. Sounded to me like he was making an absolute pronouncement of the
immovability of a problem he was in that there was no way out of.&rdquo;
No. Gotta use the art of contrary thinking. It&rsquo;s either love or a
call for love.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
HE is asking for salvation, as YOU are. Poverty is of the ego&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; something which doesn&rsquo;t even exist, and none of you
should be laboring under the domination of.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Poverty is of the ego, and NEVER of God.
</div>

In other words, poverty is of the voice for fear, and never of the Voice
for Truth.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
No &ldquo;outrageous&rdquo; requests can be made of one who recognizes
what is valuable and wants to accept nothing else.
</div>

Now there are times in Gatherings when people speak to me in a
challenging or obtuse way, and Paul may cringe a little bit and have to
take a moment to once again join with me, because that&rsquo;s the only
thing that matters; not the manner in which the question was asked; not
the challenging words that were used in the way the question was asked.
That doesn&rsquo;t matter. And he takes the time to get back to what
matters, and then that which clarifies comes forth. He recognizes what
is valuable and wants to accept nothing else.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Salvation &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; why are we talking about salvation? Because your Brother is
asking for salvation, no matter what he says or how he behaves, just as
you are.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Salvation is for the mind, and it is attained through &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; peace.
</div>

The ego is incapable of being at peace or of experiencing peace. The
only peace it can ever seem to arrive at is drug-induced&mdash;or
ultimately unconsciousness&mdash;or ulta-ultimately death.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Salvation is for the mind, and it is attained through peace. This is the
ONLY thing that can be saved &hellip;
</div>

See, we had up at the top of the page here:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The question is always two-fold; first, WHAT is to be saved, and second,
HOW can it be saved?

Salvation is for the mind, and it is attained through peace. This is the
ONLY thing that can be saved and the ONLY way to save it. Any response
OTHER than love arises from a confusion about the &ldquo;what&rdquo; and
the &ldquo;how&rdquo; of salvation, and this is the ONLY answer. Never
lose sight of this&hellip;
</div>

You see? Still talking about getting your own head on straight.

You &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Never lose sight of this, and never allow yourself to believe, even for
an instant, that there IS another answer.
</div>

Well, you already do believe there is another answer, but you&rsquo;ve
got to start disbelieving it. And the other answer you think there is,
is the one you can come with all by yourself. And sometimes the answer
is to shut your Brother up and be relieved of the problem, so that you
can have some peace to do some irrelevant thing you want to do.
Irrelevant because it&rsquo;s private; it&rsquo;s exclusive; it
doesn&rsquo;t embrace; it doesn&rsquo;t involve.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Never lose sight of this, and never allow yourself to believe, even for
an instant, that there IS another answer.
</div>

And so when I&rsquo;ve said, during the week, watch for the times when
you are offended, it&rsquo;s to help you see that here is an
instant&mdash;where offense is not an appropriate &ldquo;other
answer&rdquo;&mdash;to be enjoined and to be in your peace.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For you will surely place yourself among the poor, who do not understand
that they dwell in abundance and that salvation is come.
</div>

You can&rsquo;t teach what you haven&rsquo;t learned. You can&rsquo;t
grace your Brother with help that you haven&rsquo;t incorporated. And I
promise you that every bit of work you do, so to speak, every bit of
diligence you bring to your week of watching the use to which
you&rsquo;re putting your mind so that it isn&rsquo;t willy-nilly
running in consonance with the voice for fear, will bring you into
better alignment with your Real Nature and your Real Mind and your Real
Being. And as you do that, you lessen the density of the mutual
agreement, you lessen the density of the dream, and it does help your
Brother.

But for now, helping your Brother starts with you. And it starts with
you doing that which spontaneously precipitates sudden shifts of
perception that change you forever.

Another &ldquo;meat and potatoes&rdquo; evening.

I have enjoyed being with you. And I look forward to being with you all
next week. Have an unoffended week.

[^1]: T11.3 The Investment in Reality

