---
title: Jan 22, 2006
ref: "T11.3 The Investment in Reality"
alink: "/acim/text/11/chap1103/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who is joining us on the Internet.

Well, as I said last week, we&rsquo;re sort of in a &ldquo;meat and
potatoes&rdquo; section&mdash;takes a little more effort to digest. And
so we&rsquo;re not going to move through this rapidly, and we will do a
little bit of review.

It is helpful not to read this like a two-dimensional creature which can
only move backward and forward on a line. Don&rsquo;t read it with such
focused attention that you&rsquo;re only letting the sentence
you&rsquo;re reading register with you. As a three-dimensional creature,
you have the capacity to stand back and get an overview. And so from
time to time, it&rsquo;s helpful to take a look at what chapter
you&rsquo;re reading in&mdash;what&rsquo;s the subject of the
chapter?&mdash;because it will help you put into context the sentence
you&rsquo;re reading at the moment.

Now in the paragraph before the one I said we would start with, we have
this difficult sentence that people have trouble with, and which I spent
some time talking about last week. It says:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Recognize WHAT DOES NOT MATTER, and if your brothers ask you for
something &ldquo;outrageous,&rdquo; do it BECAUSE it does not matter. 1
</div>

What&rsquo;s confusing is, what is the &ldquo;it&rdquo; referring to?
And so I&rsquo;m going back to in the Sparkly Book, page 258, the first
full paragraph.

And I want to remind you that the chapter we&rsquo;re in is called,
&ldquo;GOD&rsquo;S PLAN FOR SALVATION.&rdquo; That&rsquo;s what
everything we&rsquo;re reading about is relevant to. It says here:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
How simple, then, is God&rsquo;s plan for salvation. There is but ONE
response to reality, for reality evokes no conflict at all. There is but
ONE Teacher of reality, Who understands what it &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; Reality &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; IS. He does not change His Mind about reality because REALITY
does not change.
</div>

Now mind you, this &ldquo;ONE Teacher of reality&rdquo; is the Holy
Spirit. Again, and I cannot say this too often and I will repeat it over
and over, that &ldquo;ONE Teacher&rdquo; is the Holy Spirit, and the
Holy Spirit is nothing more than your right Mind; you in your innate,
fundamental clarity.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Although YOUR &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; interpretations of reality are meaningless in your divided
state, His remain consistently true. He GIVES them to you because they
are FOR you.
</div>

In other words, it&rsquo;s your Birthright to not only include them, but
to be fully conscious of them.

Now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Do not attempt to &ldquo;help&rdquo; a brother in YOUR way, for you
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and I&rsquo;m going to add: All by yourself &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; cannot help yourselves. But hear his call &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your Brother&rsquo;s call &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; for the help of God, and you will recognize your OWN need for
the Father.
</div>

Now your Brother and your world are always presenting to you the
opportunity to recognize God there. That&rsquo;s the only thing
that&rsquo;s ever being presented to you.

If the Brother, perhaps like yourself, is unconscious of his Birthright,
is unconscious of his Source, and therefore unaware of who and what he
truly is, behaves in an obtuse way, or in a way that calls for
confirmation of what he ignorantly believes, it is still a call for you
to recognize God there. It&rsquo;s still a call for Love.

There is never an occasion for you to function in any other way than
finding God in the middle of what is happening; to find God to be the
center and circumference of what is happening&mdash;no matter what
mumbo-jumbo is coming out of your Brother&rsquo;s mouth. That&rsquo;s
the only thing you&rsquo;re being called upon to do. And interestingly
enough, that&rsquo;s your divine function; that&rsquo;s your Birthright
to be able to do. That&rsquo;s what you should find yourself doing all
the time, and that is what you will find yourself doing all the time as
you forget less and less that that&rsquo;s your function.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Do not attempt to &ldquo;help&rdquo; a brother in YOUR way, for you
cannot help yourselves. But hear his call for the help of God, and you
will recognize your OWN need for the Father.
</div>

When you recognize your own need for the Father, you will turn to the
Father, instead of your opinions, your best judgments; all the
definitions you have already created for everything you&rsquo;re
experiencing. And so you will turn to the Father, instead of your memory
and your beliefs. That&rsquo;s what&rsquo;s being called for.

Now let&rsquo;s go back to page 263.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Recognize WHAT DOES NOT MATTER, and if your brothers ask you for
something &ldquo;outrageous,&rdquo; do it BECAUSE it does not matter.
</div>

If the only thing you&rsquo;re being called upon to do is to be willing
to recognize God right there where something ungodlike seems to be
presenting itself, then you have to recognize that the mumbo-jumbo
that&rsquo;s coming out of your Brother&rsquo;s mouth doesn&rsquo;t
matter. The mumbo-jumbo that&rsquo;s comes out of your Brother&rsquo;s
mouth is inevitably going to be an invitation to you &ldquo;as an
independent authority&rdquo; to respond to him from the same place of
ignorance of your Birthright that he is suffering from. That&rsquo;s
what&rsquo;s &ldquo;outrageous.&rdquo; And that&rsquo;s what
doesn&rsquo;t matter. That is what doesn&rsquo;t mean anything at all.
And so you must recognize that the mumbo-jumbo doesn&rsquo;t matter, and
you must not take the bait and come from your best limited place in
order to respond.

Now if when your Brother comes on to you with something, with an
&ldquo;outrageous&rdquo; request to join him in the belief of
&ldquo;lack&rdquo; of any kind, he usually will do it in a manipulative
and coersive way, and usually in a way that calls your integrity into
question. He will not be treating you well, at least not according to
the agreed-upon definitions of politeness and manners. And if you take
offense at his manner of approaching you, you are then likely to find
that the idea that what is happening is a &ldquo;call for love&rdquo; is
outrageous. &ldquo;How can I respond to this as a call for love? How on
earth can I possibly justify being loving, being in my peace, in the
face of this attack?&rdquo; You see?

And then you must realize that the mumbo-jumbo going on in your mind
doesn&rsquo;t matter, because that is not your function. And you must
make the choice to turn to the Altar, to turn to the Holy Spirit, to
turn to the place of excellence in you in which your inheritance, your
God-derived Birthright is waiting for you to embrace, so that it may
find expression through you because &ldquo;you are letting it through
you&rdquo; is your ultimate divine function, and you must do that. And
you do that because what your Brother is asking for which is different
from that, doesn&rsquo;t matter. That isn&rsquo;t what matters.

Your Brother&rsquo;s &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; poverty asks for gifts, NOT for further impoverishment.
</div>

Not for confirmation of his bad situation. His poverty asks for that
which will uncover his wholeness. You see? It asks for gifts.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You who could help them are surely acting destructively if you accept
their poverty as YOURS. If you had not invested as THEY had, it would
never occur to you to overlook their need.
</div>

You see, something is going on there. There is an experience of need.

What is the need for? The need is for clarity, for understanding, for
the Truth that replaces the belief that he or she is suffering from,
that causes the belief to become so nonsensical and meaningless that it
is immediately dropped in favor for what is meaningful.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Recognize WHAT DOES NOT MATTER&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what does not matter is how he&rsquo;s perceiving himself at
the moment. And what does not matter is how &ldquo;you unjoined&rdquo;
might be perceiving him as well.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Recognize WHAT DOES NOT MATTER&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and do what does.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; hear his call for the help of God, and you will recognize your
OWN need for the Father.
</div>

And recognizing it, you will lean into the Father. And what will result
will be the expression of the answer that heals. Okay.

Don&rsquo;t be tempted by niggling thoughts that say, &ldquo;Well, why
was that written in such an unclear way when it could have been said
clearly?&rdquo; And don&rsquo;t let niggling thoughts come in that say,
&ldquo;Oh, well, because it&rsquo;s difficult to understand, maybe there
is more to understand.&rdquo; No. I have expressed it with perfect
clarity, what the need is. And you will have to agree with me that it is
consistent with everything else we&rsquo;ve been reading as we have been
going through the Course. So be at rest with the Truth. Be at rest with
the answer. Embrace it. And when the temptation comes to practice doubt
or to still remain somewhat ill at ease, dismiss it! [slight pause]
Dismiss it! And don&rsquo;t entertain it further.

I&rsquo;m going to read the whole paragraph that we ended with last
week.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Recognize WHAT DOES NOT MATTER, and if your brothers ask you for
something &ldquo;outrageous,&rdquo; do it BECAUSE it does not matter.
Refuse, and your opposition establishes that it DOES matter to you. It
is only YOU, therefore, who have made the request outrageous, for
nothing can BE asked of you&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in all your little tininess &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and every request of a brother is for YOU.
</div>

Just as every aspect of the Universe elicits from you the recognition of
God in it. It is for you. It is for you coming back into your right Mind
where you&rsquo;re not seeing your interposed imaginations, instead of
Reality, instead of Creation as it is.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Why would you insist in DENYING him? For to do so is to deny yourself
and impoverish both. HE is asking for &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; salvation &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; now that may not be what&rsquo;s coming out of his mouth.
What&rsquo;s coming out of his mouth is most likely to be a request for
you to see the reality of his dilemma and to join him in confirming its
reality. That&rsquo;s what will come out of his mouth.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[But] HE is asking for salvation, as YOU are. Poverty is of the ego, and
NEVER of God. No &ldquo;outrageous&rdquo; requests can be made of one
who recognizes what is valuable and wants to accept nothing else.
</div>

Now if you don&rsquo;t want to accept as valuable the fact that
it&rsquo;s your Birthright to be in a constant state of recognizing and
acknowledging God in everything&mdash;meaning actually having the
experience of God in everything&mdash;then it means that you want to
accept something else. Don&rsquo;t! Stop wanting to accept something
else, and abandon it.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Salvation is for the mind, and it is attained through peace. This is the
ONLY thing that can be saved and the ONLY way to save it.
</div>

In other words, peace is the only thing that can be saved. And the
decision for peace, and the letting of yourself into it, is the only way
it can be saved. It&rsquo;s the only way that you can find that it has
been ever-present with you and is the foundation of your Being&mdash;or
expressed more perfectly, the foundation of Being, of Existing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Any response OTHER than love arises from a confusion about the
&ldquo;what&rdquo; and the &ldquo;how&rdquo; of salvation&hellip;
</div>

You see? The only appropriate response is love&mdash;no matter what is
presented to you, no matter how your Brother is behaving. Love is the
willingness to recognize that which is Real, with a capital
&ldquo;R&rdquo;, in each and every thing. Not only is it the willingness
to recognize it, it&rsquo;s the recognition of it. And the recognition
of it always spontaneously occurs when nothing else is more important to
you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Any response OTHER than love arises from a confusion about the
&ldquo;what&rdquo; and the &ldquo;how&rdquo; of salvation, and this is
the ONLY answer.
</div>

You see how simple it is. It&rsquo;s easy to be devoted to that. It
really is easy to be devoted to wanting to see the evidence of Love and
wanting to be the evidence of Love. You just have to dare to abandon all
other goals, all other intents, and just do the one thing, and to do it
as consistently as you can through the day.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Never &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; strong word.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Never lose sight of this&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in other words, don&rsquo;t lose track of singularity of
purpose.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Never lose sight of this, and never allow yourself to believe, even for
an instant, that there IS another answer.
</div>

You see? Your Brother approaches you with a sense of lack, and mostly
likely with some sort of grievance because he can&rsquo;t help but take
offense at life when he&rsquo;s unconscious of his Birthright and
doesn&rsquo;t recognize himself in each and every thing. And when he
approaches you this way, out of habit you think there is another answer
than the only answer there is. You think the answer is defense, and so
you employ it. And you&rsquo;ve got to begin to be disciplined enough to
recognize when you&rsquo;re doing it so that you can stop, realize that
there is another way to look at this, and then ask for the experience of
how to look at it otherwise. And ask it of One who knows, not of one who
doesn&rsquo;t. Ask of the Holy Spirit. Ask of the Father.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Never lose sight of this, and never allow yourself to believe, even for
an instant, that there IS another answer. For you will surely place
yourself among the poor, who do not understand that they dwell in
abundance and that salvation is come.
</div>

Now, as usual, the ego, the private sense of self that has figured out
everything to the best of its ability without having any connection to
what everything really is, and who, which because it has separated
itself from the Father, sees itself in a state of lack, turns all of the
experiences of lack into something positive&mdash;something that, if
dealt with, will refine your soul; something that, if dealt with, will
strengthen you; something which, if dealt with successfully, will move
you closer to the ultimate of what &ldquo;you on your own&rdquo; can be.
And it has done this with lack, with poverty.

And it has suggested that poverty is valuable. It has suggested, in
fact, that one who devotes his life to poverty, can become so valuable
that he is elevated to sainthood. Many of the great ones in your past
were those who had taken a &ldquo;vow of poverty.&rdquo; And so as a
result of this belief, it becomes difficult for you to justify
experiencing abundance, because you have few people in recent history
who were abundant who were significant in elevating the human condition,
in elevating human thought; in getting past the significant beliefs that
actually block each of you from reconnecting with your Father.

Now poverty and abundance are almost always associated with dollars and
cents. But abundance should be equated with wholeness&mdash;not
accumulations of lots&mdash;but wholeness itself from which nothing is
excluded. Poverty, on the other hand, should be equated with
incompleteness, partialness; not being able to be in your right Mind
wholly aware of everything in all of its infiniteness, in all of its
unlimitedness. Poverty&mdash;in other words, ignorance&mdash;is not your
Birthright.

Now those who took &ldquo;vows of poverty&rdquo; made a decision as to
what they were going to serve&mdash;God, as it&rsquo;s put, or
mammon&mdash;the dollar, the wallet, the bank account, the CD&rsquo;s
[certificates of deposit], the stocks and bonds, and most of all,
position that all the accumulation of these things seem to substantiate.
Those who took a &ldquo;vow of poverty&rdquo; decided not to serve that.
They decided to serve a vision of God that they experienced within
themselves. They devoted themselves to service, not accumulation;
giving, not getting. And they were willing to do that and let the chips
fall where they may, rather than trying to behave in such a way to get
the chips to fall in a certain order, so as to give them a sense of
security, because money means power, money means ability to control,
money means the ability to govern your circumstances. You see? A
&ldquo;vow of poverty&rdquo; has nothing to do with lacking what is
needed. It has nothing to do with having nothing. It has to do with
being devoted to something other than accumulating things so as to
substantiate one&rsquo;s own substance, position, authority and power.

Those who cannot embrace their Brothers with a desire what?&mdash;to be
the evidence of Love, on behalf of his Brother or Sister&mdash;blocks
the flow of the movement of All That God Is that would move through him
in extension to everything. And blocking that flow constitutes an
impoverishment. In doing it, it causes each one of you to forget Who You
Are; to suffer from amnesia. That&rsquo;s &ldquo;the poverty&rdquo; that
we&rsquo;re talking about. It has nothing to do with dollars and cents,
or clean fabric to wrap around your body, or beautiful fabric to cover
your body with, or a comfortable bed to sleep in, and so on.

So, understand that &ldquo;the poverty&rdquo; that&rsquo;s being talked
about here is the poverty of your ignorance of understanding Who You
Are; the poverty that causes you not to reach for, or be open to, or
desire the influx of a clearer understanding of What You Divinely Are.
The poverty is one that disallows you from recognizing or even
conceiving the possibility of the fact that you are the Christ, that you
are the immaculate expression of God right now, and you have never been
anything else. That is &ldquo;poverty.&rdquo; Do not take a vow of that
kind of poverty! But do understand that when you value the ego, you are
taking a vow of that kind of poverty.

Be black and white enough, be clear enough to recognize that so that you
can more easily say, &ldquo;Wow. That&rsquo;s not what I want to
do,&rdquo; so that a change of behavior can occur. So that what? All
that we&rsquo;re reading about ceases to be interesting and stimulating
ideas about the Truth About You, and becomes something that you allow to
transform into actual experience, so that your mental and physical
behavior changes.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To identify with the ego is to attack yourself &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; why is that? Well, we just said it. Because when you&rsquo;re
devoted to the ego, you are devoted to your ignorance&mdash;mental and
experiential ignorance of the Truth.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To identify with the ego is to attack yourself and MAKE yourself poor.
That is why everyone who identifies with the ego feels deprived.
</div>

If you&rsquo;re going through the day feeling deprived of
whatever&mdash;freedom, health, peace&mdash;know that it&rsquo;s because
of one reason only: you have identified with the ego. You haven&rsquo;t
identified with the Truth of You. You haven&rsquo;t identified with the
place of excellence in you that is you in your fullness.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; he EXPERIENCES then is depression or anger, but what he DID is
to exchange his self-love for self-hate, making him AFRAID of himself.
He does NOT realize this.
</div>

You do not realize this.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Even if he is fully aware of anxiety he does not perceive its source as
his own &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what? Ego? No.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; he does not perceive its source as his own EGO
IDENTIFICATION&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; it exists because you have become devoted to the ego. You have
become the worshipper of the ego. It&rsquo;s because you have chosen
poorly. And on top of it, you&rsquo;ve chosen for something that&rsquo;s
purely imaginary.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Even if he is fully aware of anxiety he does not perceive its source as
his own EGO IDENTIFICATION, and he ALWAYS tries to handle it by making
some sort of insane &ldquo;arrangement&rdquo; with the world.
</div>

What does that mean? He tries to manipulate his world. He tries to get
his world to behave in a way that will provide him with a sense of
security and safety that he lacks, that will allow him to release the
anxiety; not realizing that the only thing that will relieve him of the
anxiety is to switch his allegiance from the ego to that which is
nothing more than his right Mind; to switch his allegiance from his
much-revered independence to a &ldquo;state of
dependence&rdquo;&mdash;immutable union with the Father, with his
Source.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He always perceives this world &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that he&rsquo;s going to make insane &ldquo;arrangements&rdquo;
with, through manipulation.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; as OUTSIDE himself, for this is crucial to his adjustment.
</div>

His adjustment to what? His adjustment to his insanity. His adjustment
to wrong devotion.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He does not realize that he MAKES this world, for there IS no world
outside of him.
</div>

You see, the fact is that as the Christ, your mind is the Mind of God
not divided up into bits and pieces, and therefore all that exists is
some aspect of the infinitude of your Being. And none of it is
&ldquo;outside&rdquo; of you. And all that is quote &ldquo;inside
you&rdquo; is unlimited, infinite, unbounded.

Now listen to this.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If only the loving thoughts of God&rsquo;s Son are the world&rsquo;s
reality, the real world MUST be in his mind.
</div>

Does it say there that, &ldquo;If only the loving thoughts of
God&rsquo;s Son are the world&rsquo;s reality, the real world must be an
illusion; the real world must not exist at all&rdquo;? No, it says that,
&ldquo;the real world must be in his mind.&rdquo; The distinction here
is that it is not &ldquo;out there&rdquo; in space as you&rsquo;re
experiencing it at the moment. It is a conscious experience going on in
your own infinite Mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
His insane thoughts, too, must be in his mind&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you see? There just isn&rsquo;t any &ldquo;out there&rdquo; for
any of it to be the illusion or the truth.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
His insane thoughts, too, must be in his mind, but an internal conflict
of this magnitude he cannot tolerate.
</div>

You cannot tolerate.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
A split mind IS endangered&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what&rsquo;s the saying? &ldquo;A house divided against itself
cannot stand.&rdquo; That which is fragmented lacks integrity, and it
must fall. And that&rsquo;s why so much of your existence is taken up
with fixing up that which is falling apart, because you&rsquo;re trying
to hold together something that doesn&rsquo;t really exist.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
A split mind IS endangered&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; glory hallelujah! And I&rsquo;m encouraging you to let it go
ahead and collapse so that in it&rsquo;s absence, you will experience
what&rsquo;s left&mdash;which is nothing more than your right Mind, and
you &ldquo;fully conscious&rdquo; of your eternal Oneness with God, and
therefore with the Conscious Awareness of Being that is characteristic
of the divine (capital &ldquo;M&rdquo;) Mind, in which no illusion is
going on at all; in which your experience of your Birthright is not
obscured.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
A split mind IS endangered, and the recognition that it encompasses
completely opposed thoughts within itself IS intolerable. Therefore the
mind projects the split, NOT the reality.
</div>

The Reality remains untouched, unaffected. Nothing happens to it.

Because it&rsquo;s only the misperception occasioned by fear that is
occasioned by your orphanhood [which] constitutes the conflict
that&rsquo;s intolerable and that must be projected &ldquo;out
there,&rdquo; so that something &ldquo;out there&rdquo; may be blamed,
and then turned into an ethic of overcoming so as to gain a sense of
your own autonomous worth.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Everything you perceive as the outside world is merely your attempt to
maintain your ego &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your ego? No &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; your ego identification, for everyone believes that
identification is salvation.
</div>

Well, if identification, if a self-image isn&rsquo;t your self,
isn&rsquo;t your salvation, what is? If identification is not, what is?
Identity.

&ldquo;Identity,&rdquo; for purposes of illustration, is that which
preexists any conscious thought you can possibly have. Identity is
unalterable, permanent, eternal and unbounded. Identity includes within
itself all of Creation, with nothing left outside of itself, and without
conflict of any kind.

Again if identification is not salvation, what is? Identity.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet consider what has happened, for thoughts DO have consequences to the
thinker.
</div>

Important. Not &hellip; not what&rsquo;s going on &ldquo;out
there&rdquo; in the world; that isn&rsquo;t what has consequences for
you. The thoughts, which you embrace and invest with meaning in your own
mind, have consequences. And it works both ways. Consequences
aren&rsquo;t negative.

When the thought is illuminated in your mind that God is infinite Love
which emanates from you and around you and to you from everything, and
you feel loved, there&rsquo;s a consequence. Fear cannot exist in that
conscious experience. Vulnerability cannot exist in that conscious
experience. The consequence of that idea allowed to be experienced is
Heaven; very simply, it is Creation experienced without distortion.

On the other hand, if you wish to have &ldquo;created ideas&rdquo; that
are pure fantasy&mdash;in other words, having no basis in fact&mdash;and
you wish to make commit to them, devotion to them, there are going to be
consequences. Devotion to &ldquo;that which isn&rsquo;t true&rdquo; is
uncomfortable, because it&rsquo;s you trying to act as though
you&rsquo;re out of your Mind. And yet, you can&rsquo;t actually violate
your divine Sanity. And so, the Sanity of your Being, which is
unalterable, will constantly remind you that your foray into illusion is
not natural, is not Real, is not your Birthright, and that you,
therefore, cannot be comfortable employing that frame of mind. The
discomfort is there to remind you to come back Home into your Sanity.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You are AT ODDS with the world &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; this is important.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; as you perceive it because you think IT is antagonistic to YOU.
</div>

Why do you think that? Because you projected it &ldquo;out there&rdquo;
because it was too hard for you to embrace the full conscious awareness
that you were believing, fully believing opposites. You were fully
believing the possibility of absolute conflict&mdash;which, of course,
is an absolute impossibility.

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You are AT ODDS with the world as you perceive it &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you say, &ldquo;This is me. That&rsquo;s not me. This is me.
That flower is not me.&rdquo; Well, that&rsquo;s not true. All conscious
experiences, all true ideas, are some aspect of the infinitude of your
infinite Mind. It is all you. It is all a Singularity. And none of it is
antagonistic to you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You are AT ODDS with the world as you perceive it &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; as you have given it definition &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; because you think IT is antagonistic to YOU. This is a
necessary consequence of what you have done. You have projected outward
what IS antagonistic to what is inward, and therefore you would HAVE to
perceive it this way. That is why you must realize that your hatred is
IN your mind and NOT outside it before you can get rid of it; and why
you must get rid of it BEFORE you can perceive the world as it really
is.
</div>

Now in many spiritual or metaphysical teachings, the idea is expressed
that you must raise every human condition to the mental level, you must
translate it into ideas, in order for the true idea to be able to, let
us say, have an effect on the false idea. It still posits the idea that
the false idea is something that can be affected by a true idea. That is
not the case.

What happens is that, as it&rsquo;s said, when you bring the darkness to
the Light, or you bring the Light to the darkness, the darkness
disappears. By taking every manifestation of imperfection and bringing
it to the mental level, recognizing that it has to be and can be nothing
other than &ldquo;an idea that is false,&rdquo; you take it out of the
realm of physical cause and effect&mdash;you know, a &ldquo;physical
universe out there&rdquo; that you&rsquo;re in the middle of. You bring
it right into the middle of you &ldquo;as Mind&rdquo; so that you can
look at it as an idea and, we&rsquo;ll say, compare it with the True
Idea, so that in the recognition of what the True Idea is, it becomes
perfectly logical to you to accept that the false idea will simply
dissolve because there&rsquo;s nothing to support it anymore. And you
will not have manipulated matter. You will not have manipulated a faulty
world &ldquo;out there.&rdquo; But your world will no longer reflect
your mental confusion, because you have become unconfused.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
That is why you must realize that your hatred &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; or your ignorance. Your being offended, and the thing
you&rsquo;re offended at.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is IN your mind and NOT outside it before you can get rid of
it; and why you must get rid of it BEFORE you can perceive the world as
it really is.
</div>

Creation as the Father is being it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
We once said that God so loved the world that He gave it to His
only-begotten Son. God DOES love the real world&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; it&rsquo;s the expression, it&rsquo;s the embodiment,
it&rsquo;s the rendering visible and tangible the Love, the movement of
the Love of God. And that&rsquo;s why in moments of illumination, you
have the experience of seeing everything, all that you have called
&ldquo;physical form,&rdquo; in movement radiating/emanating/extending
toward you, Love that you actually feel embraced by and one with. And
then comes the almost instantaneous inevitable realization that the Love
that you&rsquo;re embraced by is the Love that you Are; that it is a
Singularity.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God DOES love the real world, and those who perceive ITS reality cannot
SEE the world of death.
</div>

Not being able to &ldquo;see the world of death&rdquo; is the
consequence of your having no other conscious intent but to see the
evidence of God, to see the evidence of Love, and to be the evidence of
Love.

It&rsquo;s a consequence that you don&rsquo;t have to enact. It
isn&rsquo;t a penalty that is laid down. In the presence of Love, in the
presence of a Singular Mind, in a presence of a Mind that is Sane,
conflict doesn&rsquo;t exist. Conflict is nonexistent. In the process of
Awakening, it appears to disappear. And so the word
&ldquo;consequence&rdquo; can be used.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God DOES love the real world, and those who perceive ITS reality cannot
SEE the world of death. For death is NOT of the real world, in which
everything is eternal.
</div>

Conflict is not &ldquo;of&rdquo; Singularity. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God gave you the real world in exchange for the one you made out of your
split mind, and which IS the symbol of death. For if you could REALLY
separate yourselves &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; by virtue of divorce.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; from the Mind of God you WOULD die, and the world you perceive
IS a world of separation.
</div>

But you can&rsquo;t die, and therefore the world is not truly a world of
separation. It is still the Presence of God, the Movement of God called
Creation, which embodies the meaning of the words, &ldquo;Behold!
&hellip; &rdquo;&mdash;in other words, be alert, be conscious,
watch&mdash;&ldquo; &hellip; I make all things new.&rdquo;

Now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You were willing to accept even death to deny your Father.
</div>

The temptation to be an independent thinker, an independent authorizer,
was pretty tempting, was pretty seductive. And of course, as I&rsquo;ve
said before, at that point you were feeling your omnipotence. And so you
felt no fear around venturing into this experience of autonomy, and so
you did it with gusto. [laughing]

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You were willing to accept even death to deny your Father. Yet He would
not have it so, and so it is NOT so. You still could not will against
Him&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you couldn&rsquo;t change the way things work.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You still could not will against Him, and that is why you have no
control over the world you made. It is not a world of will because it is
governed by the desire to be unlike Him&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; God &hellip;

&hellip; you see? You wanted your independence. You got yourself an
imaginary divorce. Why? Because you desired to be unlike Him. You
desired to be like whatever you wanted to create yourself to be. It was
a tantalizing and fun experiment.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is not a world of will because it is governed by the desire to be
unlike Him, and this desire is NOT will.
</div>

This is very important. Many people think they can coerce others and
coerce life into a different track if they simply desire strongly
enough. But desire is not will. You want a perfect example of the truth
of this? You say, &ldquo;I desire to wake up.&rdquo; And you&rsquo;re
not awake yet. Why? Because you haven&rsquo;t actually made the decision
to do it, and you haven&rsquo;t done it yet. That is an act of will.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The world you made is therefore totally chaotic, governed by arbitrary
and senseless &ldquo;laws,&rdquo; and without meaning of ANY kind. For
it was made out of what you do NOT want, projected from your mind
because you were afraid of it.

Yet this world is ONLY in the mind of its maker, along with his REAL
salvation.
</div>

It&rsquo;s all Mind. And I&rsquo;ve been saying this for a long time,
and it will keep coming up until it finally clicks with you that
everything you&rsquo;re experiencing is an experience of Mind. It is
going on in the state of being Conscious, which is Life. And ideas are
perfectly tangible and experienceable to that which formed them.

But that doesn&rsquo;t mean that they exist in time and space as
&ldquo;physical energy,&rdquo; which as you all know is polarized
energy. You see, the energy of Spirit which is Singular is caused to be
experienced as polarized energy called &ldquo;matter&rdquo; when you
dissociate yourself from all of Creation, and find it to be different
from you, and you different from it, and therefore, not necessarily in
harmony with each other, even though Really, with capital
&ldquo;R&rdquo;, all of Creation is necessarily in harmony with every
other aspect of Creation.

So your foray into the imagination and the realm of insanity causes the
Kingdom of Heaven to appear to you to be polarized, conflicted&mdash;all
because of one thing. You have devoted your attention poorly.
You&rsquo;ve devoted it to your independence, instead of devoting it to
your real and only function, which is to recognize God in every thing,
recognize Good, unconditional, singular, unconflicted Good in every
thing.

&ldquo;Oh, yeah. Unconditional Good and unconditional Love. Wow.&rdquo;
That can mean that you are supposed to unconditionally love everything,
even illusions. Now you tell me where the intelligence is in that.
Because if you&rsquo;re willing to unconditionally love illusions, if
you&rsquo;re willing to unconditionally love poverty, you&rsquo;re never
going to have the presence of mind to distinguish between what is Real
and what is unreal, so that you may set aside that which isn&rsquo;t
Real. And this maintains your insanity. This maintains and confirms your
ignorance.

And I&rsquo;m telling you this is not your Birthright. Stop doing it.
Start devoting yourself to the Truth. Start devoting yourself to the
willingness to at any moment you think of it during the day, looking to
find God right there, no matter what you&rsquo;re looking at.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet this world is ONLY in the mind of its maker&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the one you&rsquo;ve made up &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; along with his REAL salvation. Do not believe it is outside of
yourself, for only by recognizing WHERE it is will you gain control over
it. For you DO have control over your mind, since the mind is the
mechanism of decision. If you will recognize that ALL attack which you
perceive is in your own mind AND NOWHERE ELSE, you will at last have
placed its source, and where it began it must end.
</div>

But it can&rsquo;t end as long as you are leaving it &ldquo;out
there,&rdquo; believing that it is separate from your Mind. It is out of
your reach by virtue of your decision to hold it &ldquo;out there&rdquo;
and see it as different from you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; where it began it must end. For in this same place also lies
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; salvation.
</div>

Your peace. Your capacity to recognize Truth. Your Birthright to be
experiencing Truth, not as a head trip, but as actual experience.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The altar of God where Christ abideth is there.

You have defiled the altar but NOT the world.
</div>

You see, the Kingdom of Heaven, Reality, Creation has not been affected
by your getting a few cans of paint and drawing distracting designs all
over the Altar so that it isn&rsquo;t recognizable.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have defiled the altar but NOT the world. Yet Christ has placed the
Atonement on the altar FOR you. Bring your perceptions &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your perceptions &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; of the world to this altar, for it is the altar to truth.
</div>

Every time I suggest to you that you have a moment of intimacy with a
flower, a moment of undefended intimacy, a moment of willingness to look
at it with innocent eyes, I&rsquo;m asking you to bring that flower to
the Altar.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Bring your perceptions of the world to this altar, for it is the altar
to truth. There you will see your vision changed, and there you will
learn to see truly.
</div>

Meaning without distortion, without the interference of your wanting to
see what you&rsquo;ve made up right where what really exists is sitting
inviting you to recognize what it truly is.


<div markdown="1" class="well book">From this place, where God and His Son dwell in peace and where you are
welcome, you will look out in peace and behold the world truly. Yet to
find the place, you must relinquish your investment in the world
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; as YOU have projected it, allowing the Holy Spirit to project
the real world to you from the altar of God.
</div>

From your undefiable, unchangeable Sanity that is right there, the place
of excellence in the middle of you.

No matter what kind of &ldquo;outrageous&rdquo; request your Brother
places upon you, recognize what doesn&rsquo;t matter, and do this:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; to find the place, you must relinquish your investment in the
world as YOU have projected it&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; or the world as your Brother is projecting it to you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; allowing the Holy Spirit to project the real world to you from
the altar of God.
</div>

You see, God&rsquo;s Plan of salvation is your reintegration, so that no
part of your mind is split off, so that no false sense of conflict can
find any abiding place, and, for lack of better words, so that you might
find Existence/Being joyful, peaceful, full of Life. And I&rsquo;m going
to say, stimulating Life, but not stimulation arising out of conflict.
That&rsquo;s what we&rsquo;re talking about. And as you can see,
we&rsquo;re still talking about getting your own head on straight.

I love you all. And you are getting it. Whether you&rsquo;re getting it
fully or not, you are getting it. I look forward to being with you next
week.

[^1]: T11.3 The Investment in Reality

