---
title: Jan 29, 2006
ref: "T11.4 Seeking and Finding"
alink: "/acim/text/11/chap1104/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who is joining us on the Internet.

Well, is everyone being offended less and less? If you aren&rsquo;t, I
trust that you are beginning to find that taking offense is a reaction
that you don&rsquo;t have to employ, and that there is an option to it.
Because the more clear you become on that fact, the less you will be
governed by the very thing that keeps you from being a truly effective
presence in your world; the more you will find yourself able to be a
practical, concrete agent for change.

And I encourage you to continue to pay attention, because whenever you
find yourself in a state of reaction&mdash;which is another way of
saying &ldquo;taking offense&rdquo;&mdash;you may know that you are not
functioning on all cylinders. And you want to be functioning on all
cylinders; you really do.

I trust that you will more conscientiously make the choice to abandon
the knee-jerk response of taking offense, and replace it with the wish
to see the Truth right there where &ldquo;that which is offensive&rdquo;
appears to be going on. This will, in very practical terms, bring each
of you back into harmony, Singularity of Mind, with a capability of
having singleness of purpose as you pay attention to your conscious
experience of friends, neighbors, world, and so on.

It&rsquo;s very simple. And any of you who are watching television are
aware that there&rsquo;s a great need for what? Peacemakers. But those
who are engaged in reaction can&rsquo;t possibly be peacemakers, because
the experience of peace isn&rsquo;t available within them to convey, to
extend, to put into the air, in terms that will make the possibility of
changing from conflict to peace real. You see, what&rsquo;s needed is
not just people thinking peaceful thoughts, keeping their mind peaceful.
What&rsquo;s needed is those who are willing to abandon reaction in
favor of choosing for their peace. Why? So that they might express it.
So that as it infills you, it spills over into your behavior, so that it
spills over into your words, so that it spills over into the direction
you&rsquo;re taking, and spills over as your ability to encourage others
to take a different direction.

Let&rsquo;s go into the book. This section is called:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*Seeking and Finding*[^1]
</div>

Sounds good, doesn&rsquo;t it?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*Seeking and Finding*
</div>

Now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego is certain that love is dangerous, and this is always its
central teaching. It never PUTS it this way; on the contrary, everyone
who believes that the ego is salvation &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in other words, that their point of view constitutes their
salvation.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is intensely engaged in the search for love. Yet the ego,
though encouraging the search very actively, makes one proviso; do not
FIND it. Its dictates, then, can be summed up simply as: &ldquo;Seek and
do NOT find.&rdquo; This is the one promise the ego holds out to you,
and the one promise it will KEEP. For the ego pursues its goal with
fanatic insistence, and its reality testing, though severely impaired,
is completely consistent.
</div>

Anybody understand what that meant?

Let&rsquo;s go back &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego is certain that love is dangerous&hellip;
</div>

Even humanly speaking, you would have to say that if you dare to become
involved with another with love, that it causes you to be vulnerable.
Right? Love is unprotected. Love is the willingness to simply be
genuine. Love is the willingness to express your deepest feelings. Love
is your comfort level that allows you to honestly share yourself. But,
again, that&rsquo;s interpreted to mean that you are putting yourself in
a position of being vulnerable. So even at a human level, the ego is
certain that love is dangerous.

What you&rsquo;re not aware of is that &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; this is always its central teaching.
</div>

And why? Well, what is the ego? The ego is the ideas, the theories, the
definitions of your world and yourself that you have given yourself
after you got a divorce from the Father and said, &ldquo;I&rsquo;m just
a human being. There may or may not be a God, but I exist.&rdquo; You
see? And when you got this divorce from your Father, you abandoned your
Birthright. You didn&rsquo;t know that was going to happen, but that is
what happened.

So you&rsquo;re now poverty-stricken. You&rsquo;re now an orphan without
an inheritance. You are a presence without a source other than what you
perceive to be your very own mind. You&rsquo;re private, in other words.
And you&rsquo;re separate from everything else. Now you&rsquo;re not
experiencing yourself as you truly are.

And, in that frame of mind as we&rsquo;ve said before, you have taken
this new situation, this new experience of being, with its
vulnerability, with its loneliness, with its isolation&mdash;even though
you&rsquo;re in the middle of an infinite Universe and millions of
Brothers and Sisters&mdash;and you have taken this sense of life as a
challenge to succeed on your own and to build up a sense of yourself, a
picture of yourself, a definition of yourself; one that has increasing,
ever increasing substance and ever increasing respectability. And you
engage in proving to your Brothers and Sisters who are all unlike you,
because they&rsquo;re orphans as well, having no Father, having no
relationship with you other than by association. And you live life
totally alone, totally isolated.

And you have developed theories. You have developed explanations. You
have developed what you could call &ldquo;programs of behavior&rdquo;
and &ldquo;programs of thought;&rdquo; some of them you called
manners&mdash;ways to relate to your Brother that will get the maximum
out of the relationship. And you have found that if you&rsquo;re
relatively kind, you will be met &ldquo;in kind&rdquo; by your Brothers.

And so you have developed a &ldquo;theory of love.&rdquo; But always
what love means, at the bottom line, is whether you&rsquo;re getting
stroked by your Brother; what you&rsquo;re getting from your Brother.
&ldquo;Is my Brother confirming my value? Is he confirming my value
enough? Am I getting enough nourishment from my Brother? And if not, why
not?&rdquo; And all of this develops into what is called &ldquo;social
behavior.&rdquo; You see, that&rsquo;s not love.

And even though you say, &ldquo;Well, what really works well is for me
to be genuine and honest and open and vulnerable, and for the most part
that tends to work well,&rdquo; but what is the reason? The reason is so
that your behavior elicits a confirming response from out there. To the
degree that you develop this skill well, you&rsquo;re able to credit
yourself more and more with being a reasonable and contributive social
creature. And so you are building and substantiating your sense of who
you are. And of course, this is the number one goal, because in your
divorced state, in your orphanhood, you don&rsquo;t experience any self
worth independent of the feedback you get from your world&mdash;because,
of course, your &ldquo;Birthright box&rdquo; is empty.

Now, the fact is, and what all of you are at the threshold of making
sense out of&mdash;I mean I know you know all the words, you know the
theory, and you like it&mdash;but making sense out of it so that it
becomes incorporated into your experience is what you&rsquo;re still on
the threshold of.

At the bottom line, love is when you abandon the ethic of being an
independent authorizer, an independent agent, and you say, &ldquo;I dare
to acknowledge that I am nothing on my own because I did not create me.
And the only way for me to know what I am in the fullness of what I am
is to remember my Creator, and is to invite Him back in; to bring God
back into the picture.&rdquo; But in order to do that, you&rsquo;ve got
to make room for more than numero uno. You&rsquo;ve got to make room for
God as well. And the minute you do that, you are undermining all the
work you&rsquo;ve been doing to create a self that&rsquo;s creditable
and respectable, that has substance and power. That is frightening to
the ego.

True Love is frightening to the ego because it undermines everything
about the ego. In order to truly let love in and through you as a gift
to your world instead of something to get from your world, you are
invalidating this ego creature that you have imagined yourself to be,
and maybe spent lifetimes building up into something significant.

That is why &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego is certain that love is dangerous &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; on the packs of cigarettes it says, &ldquo;Smoking is dangerous
to your health.&rdquo; And in the ego&rsquo;s book it says that,
&ldquo;Love is dangerous to the ego&rsquo;s
existence&rdquo;&mdash;because it undoes it.

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego is certain that love is dangerous, and this is always its
central teaching.
</div>

Why is it &ldquo;its central teaching&rdquo;? Because it&rsquo;s what
must be reasserted and reestablished consistently in order for the ego
not to go up in a puff of smoke.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It never PUTS it this way; on the contrary, everyone who believes that
the ego is salvation &hellip;
</div>

Is the way it goes. Is the way it works. Is what makes life interesting
and stimulating and worth living.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is intensely engaged in the search for love. Yet the ego,
though encouraging the search very actively, makes one proviso; do not
FIND it.
</div>

Now, it isn&rsquo;t that the ego as an entity, as a consciousness
capable of mental movement, decides to give you a proviso. It&rsquo;s
just that the ego itself is the absence of Love. You see? It is the
incapacity to be permeable enough for the Love of the Father to enter
it. And so what the ego is, is the incapacity to find love.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Its dictates, then, can be summed up simply as: &ldquo;Seek and do NOT
find.&rdquo; This is the one promise the ego holds out to you, &hellip;
</div>

It&rsquo;s the nature and way of being in the realm of the ego, in the
realm of orphanhood.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and the one promise it will KEEP.
</div>

And it will keep it because it&rsquo;s incapable of being any different.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For the ego pursues its goal with fanatic insistence, and its reality
testing, though severely impaired, is completely consistent.
</div>

Its &ldquo;reality testing&rdquo; is a matter of constantly checking
&ldquo;out there&rdquo; with your world, with the people you work with,
with your employers, with your mates, with your children, your
neighbors, your friends&mdash;you&rsquo;re constantly looking &ldquo;out
there&rdquo; for confirmation of your worth. That&rsquo;s the only way
it can work.

Because heaven help the ego if for a moment you softened and you let
yourself be filled with God&rsquo;s Love for you so that you felt
it&mdash;which occasionally in moments of weakness you do&mdash;and
then, feeling the Truth of it, couldn&rsquo;t help but extend it to your
Brothers and Sisters and employers, and on, and on, so that you were in
a gift-giving mode; the experience of which, of the gift flowing through
you, demonstrated that you are loved, and that your function is the
capacity to be the Presence of Love that gets given away. And in that is
your Fulfillment&mdash;not fulfillment as a head trip, as nice
ideas&mdash;but as an experience that causes you, at least for the
amount of time you&rsquo;re able to entertain it, to experience your
Wholeness that isn&rsquo;t dependent upon anything anyone else does, or
doesn&rsquo;t do. Ah, an experience of your invulnerability.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The search which the ego undertakes is therefore bound to be defeated.
</div>

It can&rsquo;t succeed because love isn&rsquo;t &ldquo;out there&rdquo;
for you to obtain from your world&mdash;which is exactly where your
ignorance directs your attention.

So, this is important.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The search which the ego undertakes &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; which you undertake from the premise of your ignorance of Who
You Are.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is therefore bound to be defeated. And since it also teaches
that it is YOUR identification&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the ego &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; its guidance leads you to a journey which must end in perceived
SELF-defeat.
</div>

Now this looks and sounds very bleak. And it is. But it&rsquo;s not the
Truth about you because you&rsquo;re not the ego. The ego is nothing
more than current ignorance which you are validating as true.
That&rsquo;s all. But it&rsquo;s not the totality of your mind, and
it&rsquo;s not the totality of you.

Remember we mentioned last week the difference between
&ldquo;identification&rdquo; and &ldquo;Identity.&rdquo; The ego is the
definition you have created about yourself, and it&rsquo;s also the
definition that other people have managed to finesse you into taking on
as the definition of yourself. So the &ldquo;definition of
yourself&rdquo; is that which identifies you to yourself and others.
It&rsquo;s just identification. It&rsquo;s like an identification tag.
But the identification tag is on something Real&mdash;and that&rsquo;s
you. And the proper word for that is &ldquo;Identity,&rdquo; and
Identity is God-derived.

But the ego &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; teaches that it is YOUR identification &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; its guidance leads you to a journey which must end in perceived
SELF-defeat.
</div>

&ldquo;Oh, yeah.&rdquo; How many of you have arrived at a point where
you say, &ldquo;Man, nobody loves me, nobody appreciates me&rdquo;? And
how many of you have experienced it seriously enough that you feel
completely broken, broken down, invalidated, inconsequential, and
enduring great grief and suffering because of it? That&rsquo;s called
&ldquo;self-defeat.&rdquo; &ldquo;Nobody is validating me. I must be
worthless.&rdquo; You see? The ego has sent you on a journey looking for
something Real, but in a place where it doesn&rsquo;t exist.

And you have thought that it was a valid journey to be sent on. And, in
fact, even in the depths of your despair, you are not likely to say,
&ldquo;Uncle.&rdquo; You&rsquo;re not likely to say, &ldquo;Yes, I have
been on a futile journey. Yes, I of myself, can do nothing. Yes, I of
myself, all by myself, am nothing. And I&rsquo;m going stop trying to be
something, become something, and demonstrate it to everyone else and get
their agreement. I&rsquo;m going to go into the emptiness that I&rsquo;m
feeling. And because even without everyone else&rsquo;s approval or
anyone else&rsquo;s approval, I&rsquo;m still here. And I&rsquo;m not
busy creating myself. In fact I don&rsquo;t have enough gumption or
energy to even try to make something of myself. But nevertheless, here I
am, talking to myself. Here I am, conscious. Here I am, experiencing
being. So evidently I&rsquo;m not responsible for myself. Something is.
I&rsquo;m going to reach out to It. I&rsquo;m going to risk the chance
that, indeed, this Something that is responsible for my being in this
deplorable state that I&rsquo;m in with no gumption or courage to take
on the fight any longer, I&rsquo;m going to risk the chance that
It&rsquo;s there and that It will respond.&rdquo;

Ah, now you&rsquo;re at the first stage of prayer. You&rsquo;re at the
threshold of really not giving your total allegiance to your ego.
You&rsquo;re at the point of inviting something else in and breaking the
isolation. This is exactly why &ldquo;the ego is certain that love is
dangerous.&rdquo;

So, the ego &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; teaches that it is YOUR identification &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; its guidance leads you to a journey which must end in perceived
SELF-defeat.
</div>

And you&rsquo;ve got to let that defeat be defeat.

What happens though is, generally somewhere from some reserve way, way
deep inside of you, you say, &ldquo;I&rsquo;m just exhausted. All I need
is a little bit of rest and I can take on the challenge again. And I
will behave a little bit differently. And maybe I&rsquo;ll be a little
bit nicer. And maybe I won&rsquo;t be so overbearing. And I will have a
new modus operandi to operate according to. And we&rsquo;ll see if this
works this time.&rdquo; And you get right back on the ego bandwagon. And
not having given up, not having said &ldquo;Uncle,&rdquo; not having
been willing to step into the emptiness of not being anything all by
yourself, you missed the opportunity for a sudden shift of perception to
occur in which your opportunity to come back into your right Mind slips
through your fingers.

If you understand that in this process of returning Home to the Father,
returning back to your right Mind, is going to feel like defeat to this
independent, self-authorizing entity that you have been creating,
creating, creating&mdash;if you know that, then you will not take the
bait, and you will not get back on the bandwagon, and your sense of
failure will not be interpreted by you as your being on the wrong track.
You will be able, at least intellectually, to say, &ldquo;Wow. If it
feels this bad, I must really be on the right track. And I&rsquo;m not
going to abandon this grievous feeling of self-defeat and being
nothing.&rdquo;

So the ego&rsquo;s &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; guidance leads you to a journey which must end in perceived
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; perceived &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; SELF-defeat. For the ego CANNOT love&hellip;
</div>

Well, how could it? It can&rsquo;t embrace. It holds everything at
arm&rsquo;s length. &ldquo;Nothing is like me. Everything is different.
I am unique. I stand alone in my own right.&rdquo; Then it says,
&ldquo;And it&rsquo;s a God-given right. God gave me the right to stand
alone. God created me to be independent and refine my soul.&rdquo; Blah,
blah, blah, blah, blah.

But &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the ego CANNOT love, and in its frantic search for love, it is
seeking what it is AFRAID to find.
</div>

Now listen to this.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The search is inevitable &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the search for love is inevitable &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; because the ego is part of your mind, and because of its
source, the ego is not wholly split off, or it could not be believed at
all.
</div>

Now what does this mean? I&rsquo;ve mentioned before that you are all
the Christ; you are all at this very moment what God is presencing
Himself as, right there where you are. But you&rsquo;re not believing
it. You are giving preference to your &ldquo;much more limited&rdquo;
perception of yourself. And you are valuing that limited perception of
yourself because it gives you something to build upon and create a
better self out of yourself, all by yourself. That&rsquo;s why you value
it: because in the end you will be able to credit yourself for having
made yourself better &ldquo;all by yourself.&rdquo; And that&rsquo;s the
ego hit that keeps you hooked.

Nevertheless, in spite of your ignorance of what you are, you are What
You Truly Are and Love is the nature of your Being, and so the draw of
Love registers with you. It&rsquo;s just that the ego takes that and
turns it to its own use, and does it in a way that ensures that you will
never become unguarded enough and undefended enough for the Love of the
Father to infuse you as it is its nature to do, and inspire you to the
point where it spills over and you give love, whether you&rsquo;re
getting it or not! You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The search is inevitable because the ego is part of your mind, and
because of its source&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your Mind. The Source of your Mind which is God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; because of its source, the ego is not wholly split off, or it
could not be believed at all. For it is YOUR mind that believes in it,
and &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; gives existence to it. Yet it is also your mind that has the
power to DENY the ego&rsquo;s existence, and you will surely do so
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; by the time I get finished talking to ya. No &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and you will surely do so when you realize exactly what the
journey is on which the ego sets you.
</div>

Well, that&rsquo;s why we must talk about this so that you must see the
idiocy of what the ego is suggesting to you, so that you may see that it
is a faulty trip, that it is a trip that cannot be successfully made,
that it is a dead end, and that as part of the dead end you will have to
find out that you &ldquo;on your own&rdquo; are a failure. Why? Not
because you didn&rsquo;t have what it took, but because you don&rsquo;t
exist on your own, and so you should not be being, as you go through
your day, on that basis. It&rsquo;s a faulty basis that you can&rsquo;t
help but suffer failure from.

Now, another way of saying &ldquo;suffer failure from&rdquo; is to
recognize that what doesn&rsquo;t work, doesn&rsquo;t work. You see?
That&rsquo;s what it means: to become aware that what doesn&rsquo;t
work, doesn&rsquo;t work. That doesn&rsquo;t attack your integrity. It
allows you in your integrity to say, &ldquo;Wow! Yeah. What
doesn&rsquo;t work, doesn&rsquo;t work. And this doesn&rsquo;t work.
Therefore, I&rsquo;m going to stop doing what doesn&rsquo;t work.
I&rsquo;m going to do something else.&rdquo; It empowers you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is surely obvious that no-one wants to find what would UTTERLY defeat
him. Being unable to love, the ego would be totally inadequate in
love&rsquo;s presence, for it could not respond at all. You would HAVE
to abandon the ego&rsquo;s guidance, for it would be quite apparent that
it had not taught you the response pattern you NEED. The ego will
therefore DISTORT love, and teach you that love calls forth the
responses which the ego CAN teach.
</div>

Like a better psychological approach to finessing your good out of your
fellowman. A new set of manners to be taught and to educate the
population with so that their spontaneous, habitual behavior will be
recognizably more harmonious. You see? All of this [is] nothing more
than rules and definitions to abide by that don&rsquo;t cause you to
connect with what Love is at all. Just better behavior that keeps the
ego in place and keeps everybody still ignorant of What They Divinely
Are and of this incredible place every one is in, that is actually
Heaven, but which they&rsquo;re missing because they&rsquo;re busy
finessing love from their Brothers and Sisters, from memory, from habit,
but not from feeling, not from Soul.

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego will therefore DISTORT love, and teach you that love calls forth
the responses which the ego CAN teach. Follow its teaching, then, and
you will SEARCH &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; endlessly search &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; for love, but will not RECOGNIZE it.
</div>

The ego cannot recognize love, because in its busyness to find it
&ldquo;out there,&rdquo; it is defended against letting it in &ldquo;in
here&rdquo;&mdash;in your heart, in your Soul, in your Mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
DO you realize that the ego must set you on a journey which cannot BUT
lead to a sense of futility and depression?
</div>

If you don&rsquo;t realize it, give it a little bit of your attention
this week. Just contemplate this sentence:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
DO you realize that the ego must set you on a journey which cannot BUT
lead to a sense of futility and depression?
</div>

Now, I&rsquo;m going to tell you [small laugh] that it&rsquo;s already
been leading you on a journey which has led you to a sense of futility
and depression, and it&rsquo;s called &ldquo;the human condition.&rdquo;
Because the ego, that private little sense of self that you created for
yourself by saying, &ldquo;But, Father, I&rsquo;d rather see it my
way,&rdquo; it has been causing you to be conscious in the middle of
Kingdom of Heaven, without being conscious of it as the Kingdom of
Heaven. And it has caused you to see yourself as an orphan, when you are
the full-fledged, fully-empowered Son of God, direct expression of God,
in every moment.

And as long as you insist upon going through your day unconscious of God
being in it and unconscious of your true divine nature, you cannot
possibly recognize yourself or the Kingdom of Heaven for what they truly
are. And so you&rsquo;re already in a sense of futility and depression.
You may not believe it fully, but you cannot say that you are in any
ongoing way experiencing bliss, invulnerability, peace, harmony, joy. So
you&rsquo;re already on this journey, and you want to abandon it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To seek and NOT to find is hardly joyous. Is this the promise YOU would
keep?
</div>

Now we&rsquo;ve talked in the past about the fact that you only have two
choices available to you. You could say one of the choices is to behave
as though you are independent, a self-authorized presence having
creative power of your own, or, you are the offspring of God, you are
the embodiment of what capital &ldquo;S&rdquo; Source is being right
there as you. Another way of saying it, is that you can listen to the
voice for fear, or you can listen to the Voice for Truth. There are only
two options: unreality or Reality.

We&rsquo;ve just talked about what &ldquo;seeking and finding&rdquo;
looks like and means from the ego&rsquo;s vantage point; what you will
see and hear in your world if you&rsquo;re listening to the voice for
fear, which is the voice of the ego. Now we&rsquo;re going to talk about
what &ldquo;seeking and finding&rdquo; means when you&rsquo;re aligned
with the Voice for Truth, which is the Holy Spirit, which is nothing
more than your right Mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit offers you another promise, and one that will lead to
joy. For HIS promise is always, &ldquo;Seek and you will FIND,&rdquo; .
.
</div>

And I&rsquo;m going to put another phrase in here for you to abide with:
Be, and you will have. Become, and you will lack.

If you&rsquo;re engaged in becoming something more, then you are moving
forward on the basis of an absence of something that you must obtain.
Emptiness is the motive. Emptiness is the justification. And the
overcoming of emptiness is the goal. But that&rsquo;s what the orphan
feels. And the orphan is just the Christ unconscious of his divinity.

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit offers you another promise, and one that will lead to
joy. For HIS promise is always, &ldquo;Seek and you will FIND,&rdquo;
</div>

Abandon becoming. That&rsquo;s what happens when you get to the depths
of the pits where you realize that you &ldquo;on your own&rdquo; are a
failure. When you get to that point, you have the option to stop trying
to become. And when you abandon becoming, you find, as I said, that you
don&rsquo;t disappear. You still are. And if you will dare to just be,
instead of becoming, you will begin to have revealed to you all that is
yours. And so, by being, you will have. You will be filled with what is
already and eternally yours.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; HIS promise is always, &ldquo;Seek and you will FIND,&rdquo;
and under His guidance you cannot BE defeated.
</div>

Now why is that? Again, the beautiful integrity of Reality is that if
the Holy Spirit is nothing more than your right Mind, then your aligning
with it as you abandon your sense of privacy, means you are aligning
yourself with your Self, which is an integrating event which illuminates
to you at an experiential level the unity of you, the indivisibility of
you, and the complete incapacity you have to experience conflict because
of what you really Are.

So under the Guidance of the Holy Spirit which is nothing more than your
right Mind, you cannot be defeated. You can&rsquo;t be defeated in
waking up.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
His is the journey to ACCOMPLISHMENT, and the goal He sets before you He
will GIVE you.
</div>

If the goal that your right Mind puts before you is for you to
experience your right Mind, then it&rsquo;s the intent of your right
Mind to give your right Mind back to you and, you could say, give
yourself back to your Self.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For He will never deceive God&rsquo;s Son, whom He loves with the Love
of the Father.

You WILL undertake a journey because you are NOT at home in this world.
</div>

This world that you have made up. This world of orphanhood among
orphans.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And you WILL search for your home &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; why? Why would you have a longing, a yearning? Why does
everybody have a longing and a yearning to go Home, whatever those words
mean? Because your divine Being hasn&rsquo;t forgotten Home. Your divine
Being hasn&rsquo;t forgotten what it is. And it is too wonderful to be
able to completely forget.

And so the very Truth about you, the eternal Truth about you,
isn&rsquo;t some spiritual thing out in the ethers. It&rsquo;s right in
the very being of your consciousness every day. The desire is there
because you are there; the True One that you are is there. And this
effect can be described as the Holy Spirit reminding you of the Truth
about you, and inviting you to pay attention to it, and to abandon the
distractions that you entertain and validate all day long.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You WILL undertake a journey because you are NOT at home in this world.
And you WILL search for your home whether you know where it is or not.
</div>

The difference is that you&rsquo;re going to stop looking for it
&ldquo;out there.&rdquo; You&rsquo;re going to stop looking for that
which validates you out there in your Brother&rsquo;s approval, and
you&rsquo;re going to stop judging your competence by, or incompetence
by the lack of approval you get from out there.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you believe it is outside yourself the search will be futile, for you
will be seeking it where it is not. You do not know how to look within
yourself, for you do not BELIEVE your home is there.
</div>

Now many of you have heard the phrase, &ldquo;You see what you&rsquo;re
looking with.&rdquo; And if you&rsquo;re looking from an orphan&rsquo;s
mentality, you will see disassociation; you will see aloneness; you will
see sourcelessness; you will see independent entities struggling on
their own. And you will not be able to see that these individuals are
really the Christ as the Father is being them right there, just as you
are the Christ as the Father is being you right there. You see what
you&rsquo;re looking with. It&rsquo;s all in the center of you, so to
speak.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You do not know how to look within yourself, for you do not BELIEVE your
home is there.
</div>

But I&rsquo;ve just helped you to understand a little bit better how it
could be that your Home is there within you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet the Holy Spirit knows it FOR you, and He will guide you TO your home
because that is His mission.
</div>

You can rely upon that which is nothing more than your right Mind to
lead you into a more and more solid Sanity, a greater and greater
integrity, a clearer and clearer experience of your invulnerability.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As He fulfills HIS mission He will teach you YOURS, for your mission is
the same as His.
</div>

Ah. As you experience the influx of the Truth about you and the Love
that you experience in it, you will discover that it will be almost
impossible not to let it overflow and spill over into your sharing with
your Brothers and Sisters. Oh, what did I just say? Your sharing with
your Brothers and Sisters, instead of your getting from your Brothers
and Sisters&mdash;your gifting them.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; your mission is the same as His.
</div>

To gift them with the acknowledgement of the Truth about them by
remembering it for them, and reflecting it back to them, reminding them,
so that they can&rsquo;t possibly think that the only way there is to
look at things is the ignorant way they&rsquo;re currently looking at
it, at everything; the limited way in which they&rsquo;re looking at
everything.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
By guiding your BROTHERS home you are but following Him.
</div>

The Holy Spirit.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Behold the Guide your Father gave you that you might learn you have
eternal life.
</div>

So that you might learn that indeed you never were an orphan. You never
were limited. You never were tiny. You never were all by yourself any
kind of authority. And any satisfaction that you had been fooled into
believing you would get by being a successful, independent authority,
was nothing but a bunch of hot air, pure illusion, that never could have
satisfied you and can&rsquo;t possibly trick you into going after it
again.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Behold the Guide your Father gave you that you might learn you have
eternal life. For death is not your Father&rsquo;s Will nor yours, and
whatever is true IS the Will of the Father. You pay no price for life
for that was given you, but you DO pay a price for death, and a very
heavy one. If death is your treasure, you will sell everything else to
purchase it.
</div>

If being unconscious of your Birthright is what you treasure, you will
sell your Birthright. And you will commit yourself to this other thing.
And you could say that your unconsciousness of What You Are is a
&ldquo;living death,&rdquo; because it&rsquo;s a &ldquo;living
unconsciousness&rdquo; of What You Are right now.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If death is your treasure, you will sell everything else to purchase it.
And you will believe that you HAVE purchased it BECAUSE you have sold
everything else.
</div>

Because you&rsquo;ve sold everything else, you&rsquo;re impoverished.
You are empty. The fullness of life is not yours. And so you can be sure
that you actually have purchased death. You actually have purchased
unconsciousness.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet you CANNOT sell the Kingdom of Heaven.
</div>

And I&rsquo;m going to add: You can&rsquo;t sell your divinity. You
can&rsquo;t sell your Identity.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your inheritance can neither be bought NOR sold. There can BE no
disinherited parts of the Sonship&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; no orphans &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; for God is whole, and all his extensions are like Him.

The Atonement was not the price of your wholeness, but it WAS the price
of your AWARENESS of your wholeness. For what you chose to
&ldquo;sell&rdquo; had to be kept for you, since you could not
&ldquo;buy&rdquo; it back.
</div>

I&rsquo;ve reminded you before that the Holy Spirit is your right

Mind held in trust while you dally with the ego.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; what you chose to &ldquo;sell&rdquo; had to be kept for you,
since you could not &ldquo;buy&rdquo; it back. Yet YOU must invest in
it, not with money, but WITH YOUR SPIRIT.
</div>

With enthusiasm! With a real willingness to embrace it.

And how do you do that? With conscientiousness you lean into it, even
though you haven&rsquo;t experienced it for a long time, and you begin
to rely upon it and ask of it, &ldquo;What is the Truth here?&rdquo;
before you jump to your well-defined conclusions and your
mutually-agreed-upon definitions of manners, or proper behavior, or how
to finesse the most out of your Brother.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; YOU must invest in it, not with money, but WITH YOUR SPIRIT.
For Spirit is will, and will IS the &ldquo;price&rdquo; of the Kingdom.
Your inheritance awaits only the recognition that you have BEEN
redeemed.
</div>

And I could say: Your inheritance awaits only your recognition that you
never were unredeemed.

You never actually succeeded in becoming less than the fullness of what
God is being right there, because nothing you could imagine, could
diminish what God is being.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your inheritance awaits only the recognition that you have BEEN
redeemed. The Holy Spirit guides you into life eternal, but YOU must
relinquish your investment in death, or you will not SEE life though it
is all around you.
</div>

You seek death. You engage in seeking for something that cannot possibly
be where you&rsquo;re looking for it. And so you&rsquo;re committed to
behaving in a way that will always result in defeat.

You know, I&rsquo;m sure that you&rsquo;ve observed people, not just
people who aren&rsquo;t experiencing incredible success and fullness in
their life because they&rsquo;re not doing it joined with the Father,
but people who, I&rsquo;m going to say, literally seek for love where it
cannot be found. In other words, how many women or how many men look to
get love from someone who cannot give it? How many look for love from
someone who is so self-centered and so self-preoccupied, or so committed
to what they want to do, that they don&rsquo;t even recognize the
presence of anyone else to extend to?

Now, this touches too close to home for almost everyone. Just because
you happen to do it in more subtle ways yourself, or now as opposed to
back when you did it in the grosser way, doesn&rsquo;t mean that you can
be happier with yourself. Because you still need to wake up. You still
need to abandon looking for love where it doesn&rsquo;t exist; trying to
get your sense of your worth from others&rsquo; acceptance of you, from
others&rsquo; praise of you, from others acknowledging that they feel
you are worth a great deal to them. That&rsquo;s not where your worth
lies. What they&rsquo;re appreciating is not what your worth is.

Your worth lies in What You Are, whether anyone is acknowledging you or
not. It lies in your divine relationship with the Source of Being.
It&rsquo;s ever-present with you. It&rsquo;s the inviolable state of
your Being.

Seek and find. Stop becoming, and start being. Become, and find lack.
Be, and find Wholeness. Be, and find. Be, and have. And start today.

And don&rsquo;t get hung up on what others are, or are not, doing.
Don&rsquo;t get hung up on what that says or means about you. And do
what you have to do to be able to be the presence of a gift that will
bless your Brothers and Sisters by illuminating what is true about them
because they can see it in you.

Remember, we&rsquo;re talking about a simple thing: the choice between
the voices you are listening to, the two voices, and the radical
difference between the two ways of experiencing the Kingdom of Heaven
are, depending upon which of the two voices you are listening to. All
this should have done tonight is to make the difference clear enough
that it&rsquo;s easier for you to make a choice as to which way you are
going to be.

Still, we&rsquo;re talking about getting your head on straight.
We&rsquo;re still not talking about being an effective agent for change
for someone else.

Okay.

I love you all.

And I want you to find a little joy this week from what we&rsquo;ve
discussed, and not further difficulty or tension. If you&rsquo;re
feeling incompetent, if you&rsquo;re feeling like nothing you do does
any good, take a look and see what you&rsquo;re using as the measuring
stick. Is it other people? Is it the way they&rsquo;re behaving, or not
behaving? If it is, you may know which voice you&rsquo;re listening to.
And you may know that if you&rsquo;re listening to that voice, you
cannot help but end up failing, having the experience of failing, having
the perception of failing, even though it&rsquo;s a false perception.

If you catch that, if you recognize it, you can turn to the other
Voice&mdash;the Voice for Truth&mdash;so that you might have clearer
experiences of what I&rsquo;m going to call &ldquo;reintegration within
you,&rdquo; where you are less flustered, where you are less
discombobulated; experiencing less chaos, more peace, more harmony, more
integrity.

Decide which voice you&rsquo;re going to listen to and do it. Make a
point &hellip; make a point one or two or three times a day to remember
to lean into the Voice for Truth, even if at the moment you don&rsquo;t
know what that&rsquo;s going to mean. Have the intent. Let there be the
conscious awareness that it&rsquo;s your desire to let in something
other than what you&rsquo;ve already imagined. Let there be moments
where you are desiring a mutual joining, a partnership, where
you&rsquo;re not doing this alone and you are willing to give deference
to the Voice of Wisdom, because you want to experience the Wisdom of
your Being.

Okay. I look forward to being with you next week.

[^1]: T11.4 Seeking and Finding

