---
title: "Feb 12, 2006"
ref: T11.5 The Sane Curriculum
alink: "/acim/text/11/chap1105/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who is joining us on the Internet.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*The Sane Curriculum*
</div>

Well, before we start reading about &ldquo;The Sane Curriculum,&rdquo;
let&rsquo;s refresh ourselves about what the &ldquo;insane
curriculum&rdquo; is. The insane curriculum is the ego&rsquo;s
curriculum which, as we found last week, is summed up in the words,
&ldquo;Seek and do not find.&rdquo; Seek and do not find by looking for
what you&rsquo;re looking for where it can&rsquo;t be found.

And although that does mean that if you&rsquo;re looking for love from
someone who is so self-centered and preoccupied with him- or herself
that he or she is incapable of responding for love, the real meaning of
&ldquo;looking for love where it cannot be found&rdquo; is if
you&rsquo;re looking for it in your own separated sense of being, your
own independent sense of self. If you are looking for it in a state of
isolation and aloneness because you have divorced yourself from your
Source, you are looking where it can&rsquo;t be found. It can&rsquo;t be
found in your very own isolation from the Wholeness of Existence, the
Wholeness of Being.

The only place you can &ldquo;look for love&rdquo; is from your union
with your Source. The only place you can &ldquo;look for love&rdquo; is,
not out there somewhere, but from the place of excellence in
you&mdash;your right Mind. When you are not looking from the unity of
your Being, of your essential Consciousness, when you&rsquo;re looking
for love not from the excellence of you, you will not be able to find
it.

Now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*The Sane Curriculum*[^1]

Only love is strong because it is UNDIVIDED.
</div>

It isn&rsquo;t that it&rsquo;s strong because it has a lot of power.
It&rsquo;s strong because it&rsquo;s not fragmented. It&rsquo;s strong
because in its singularity, in its indivisibility, there is the
conscious experience of invulnerability.

In the absence of chaos, there is peace. Why? Because peace is the
fundamental nature of Being. It is what is Real. And when you have no
other preference on your mind, no other preferred way of looking at
Reality, and you are introducing nothing extraneous to it, your mind is
at peace, and your mind is singular, and the experience of
invulnerability is patently obvious to you.

It is strong because in its presence there is no opposite to exercise
itself upon.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Only love is strong because it is UNDIVIDED. The strong do not attack
because they see no need to do so. BEFORE the idea of attack can enter
your mind you must have PERCEIVED yourself as weak.
</div> 

Happens to you everyday.

When you are roused to attack, or another way of putting it is, when you
are roused to defend yourself, when you are roused to take control, it
is because you are feeling vulnerable&mdash;vulnerable to an assertive
friend, vulnerable to an angry employer&mdash;vulnerable to an assertion
of will that puts you at a disadvantage that you believe is real.

When you feel weak, is it your first spontaneous response to say,
&ldquo;I better get back in my peace, I better get back in my right Mind
as quickly as I can so that I can respond to what is going on
intelligently, without bringing up my habitual use of force&rdquo;? No.
When you feel confronted, you slip back into your habit of doing
whatever it takes to get control of the situation again, so that you
will not feel vulnerable.

It&rsquo;s important to understand this. Your habit of exercising
control is connected to your feeling of weakness, which you inevitably
feel because you have gotten a divorce from your Father. You&rsquo;ve
said, &ldquo;I want to see things my way. I want to give the
definitions. I want to give the meaning.&rdquo; That arena of being, is
one in which you are weak because, as we&rsquo;ve discussed in the last
couple of weeks, your Birthright box is empty. You do not feel your
Birthright. Existence itself is an ever-present statement of your
weakness&mdash;which is, of course, the challenge you&rsquo;ve taken on
to rise above. And of course, the attempt to achieve the equivalent of a
Birthright is one of the processes of &ldquo;seeking and not
finding.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
BEFORE the idea of attack can enter your mind you must have PERCEIVED
yourself as weak. Because you had attacked yourself and believed that
the attack was EFFECTIVE, you behold yourself as weakened.
</div> 

Again, because you had attacked yourself by deciding to get a divorce
from your Source and you believe that you actually accomplished it, you
behold yourself as weakened.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
No longer perceiving yourself and all your brothers as equal, and
regarding yourself as WEAKER, you attempt to &ldquo;equalize&rdquo; the
situation YOU have made. You use attack to do so because you believe
that attack was successful in weakening YOU.
</div> 

Some time back we were talking about the fact that, &ldquo;you are
neither behind the Point of Perfection nor advancing toward it; you are
at that Point and must understand yourself therefrom.&rdquo; Now I want
to point out something about the ego: it does the same thing.

You&mdash;the ego&mdash;you when you&rsquo;re not experiencing your
union with the Father&mdash;create a definition of yourself. You say,
&ldquo;I, on my own, am worthwhile. I have substance. I have character.
I have strength. And if I develop a collection of ideas that reflect
excellent logic so that the truth of the collection of ideas stands
clearly forth as reasonable, I can demonstrate the fact that I have
integrity all by myself.&rdquo; You claim something ultimate about
yourself, and you let that be the bottom line of everything else that
comes forth from you. And then you proceed to nudge and coerce,
browbeat, and enforce your Brothers and Sisters in whatever way you can
to arrive at agreement with you.

You start, the ego starts, with a concept of integrity and then lets all
further actions embody that, in the attempt to make it so, when it
isn&rsquo;t so. I&rsquo;m bringing this out because if you can begin to
see that when I have said, &ldquo;you are neither behind the Point of
Perfection nor advancing toward it; that you are at that Point and must
understand yourself therefrom,&rdquo; this is nothing really foreign to
you. You&rsquo;re already employing it, we&rsquo;ll say, in the
negative. You&rsquo;re already employing it within the domain of
&ldquo;seek and do not find.&rdquo;

Now you know what? When you behave on this basis, you have gotten into
righteousness, self-righteousness. You claim righteousness for yourself,
and then you force your Brothers to agree with you in order to make it
so when it isn&rsquo;t so, all by yourself. Righteousness, because it is
ego-satisfying, is what hooks you when you are attacked or when you
perceive attack, or you experience strong confrontation from a Brother.
Righteousness is what causes you to say, &ldquo;I can handle this. I
don&rsquo;t need to go outside myself. I don&rsquo;t have to join with
something else. In my state of independence, I can handle it.&rdquo;

And so out of spontaneous habit, you respond with attack. You respond
with an expression of force, with an expression of coercion. You become
confrontational so as to bring about equalization between you and the
apparent source of the confrontation.

This is why, even as we are talking about the need to break the
isolation, you find yourselves during the day when stress occurs,
immediately resorting to quote &ldquo;what has worked for you
before,&rdquo; or what you have confidence has worked for you before,
and so you slip right back into &ldquo;being offended&rdquo; and
retaliating through the use of force that you bring up from the bottom
of the puniness of you, instead of doing what will work. Understand that
this is the dynamic, so that you might recognize it and not be caught
off guard so easily, or recover when you&rsquo;ve been caught off guard
more easily, so that you might say, &ldquo;Oop! There I am choosing to
work within the fundamental &lsquo;insane curriculum&rsquo; of
&lsquo;seeking and not finding.&rsquo;&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You use attack to do so &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; to equalize the situation &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; because you believe that attack was successful in weakening
YOU.

That is why the recognition of your OWN invulnerability is so important
in the restoration of your sanity.
</div> 

That&rsquo;s why it&rsquo;s so important to remember that,
&ldquo;you&rsquo;re neither behind the Point of Perfection nor advancing
toward it.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For if you accept your invulnerability, you are recognizing that attack
HAS no effect.
</div> 

If you are really divine and you have never lost your divine status, and
your Birthright is still there in your Birthright box, so to speak, then
any attempt to see things in a confused way has not succeeded in
changing you from what you are right at this moment. It has had no
effect on you. And attack that you feel like employing against your
Brother can have no effect, and the confrontation from your Brother can
have had no effect, because neither you nor your Brother are who you
have imagined yourself to be, and you in your present unalterable
perfection stand with each other in the Truth of What You Are.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Although you have attacked yourself, and very brutally, you will
demonstrate that NOTHING HAPPENED.
</div> 

Of course, when you&rsquo;re offended, when you&rsquo;re blown away by
someone else&rsquo;s aggressive confrontation, or expressed unkindness
toward you, you think that something has happened. And it is an ignorant
perception that&rsquo;s not the truth, but you believe it.

It&rsquo;s just absolutely essential for you, in the process of your
waking up, to constantly remind yourselves during your everyday
activities, that you have never stopped being what God is being right
there where you are, and your Brother has never stopped being what God
is being right there where he is. And desire to have the experience of
that, rather than the experience you are having by virtue of looking at
what&rsquo;s happening through your sense of your own orphanhood, which
is not true either.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Although you have attacked yourself, and very brutally, you will
demonstrate that NOTHING HAPPENED. Therefore, by attacking you have not
done ANYTHING. Once you realize this there is no longer any SENSE in
attack, for it manifestly DOES NOT WORK&hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; when you&rsquo;re in the thick of it, it&rsquo;s very difficult
to shift gears. It&rsquo;s very difficult to let another perception in
because you&rsquo;re so gosh darned convinced that you really are under
threat, and that someone else is responsible for it. And you must remind
yourselves that the threat you&rsquo;re seeing, the feeling of
vulnerability you&rsquo;re having, is not because of what your Brother
is doing, but the fact that you are looking at it and experiencing it
without the calm perspective that your Birthright, embraced and embodied
by you, would reveal to you.

Then you might still see your Brother acting as though he doesn&rsquo;t
know Who He Is, where a shift of perception is needed for him, but you
will not see it as threatening to you. You will not see it as something
that in any way would call for defense, or return attack.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Once you realize this there is no longer any SENSE in attack, for it
manifestly DOES NOT WORK, and CANNOT protect you.
</div> 

Why can&rsquo;t it protect you? Because no protection is called for. You
are invulnerable. What is happening is not threatening to your very
Being.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet the recognition of your invulnerability has more than negative
value.
</div> 

In other words, it does more than show you that attack never worked and
that attack never has caused anything.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If your attacks on yourself have FAILED to weaken you &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; YOU ARE STILL STRONG.
</div>

If your abandonment of your Birthright has not caused you to become less
than what you truly divinely Are, less than what God is being right
there where you are, then you&rsquo;re not the poor, little, piss-ant
mortal that you everyday believe you are, in one way or another. In
other words, you are not the weak one needing to become strong enough to
equalize the situation. You are still at the Point of Perfection. The
Ultimate is the only thing happening right here, right now. And It is
being you in Ultimacy in all that can ultimately find expression and
experience right there where you are.

You&rsquo;ve got to remember you&rsquo;re not working your way back up
the ladder.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If your attacks on yourself have FAILED to weaken you YOU ARE STILL
STRONG.
</div> 

So there&rsquo;s a positive value in it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You therefore have no need to &ldquo;equalize&rdquo; the situation to
establish your strength.

You will never realize the utter uselessness of attack EXCEPT by
recognizing that your attack on YOURSELF had no effects.
</div> 

So you see, before you start straightening out your Brother,
you&rsquo;ve got to get your own head on straight. And you&rsquo;ve got
to find out what you did and didn&rsquo;t do; what you thought you did
but didn&rsquo;t actually accomplish.

You&rsquo;ve got to come to a point where you&rsquo;re willing to
consider yourself as absolutely divine right now, unaltered from what
God is being right there where you are. And you have to let your sense
of yourself be replaced by an infilling awareness of the Wholeness of
you that will happen spontaneously when you are willing to let go of the
idea that you can handle things yourself. And that your
self-righteousness is one of the biggest traps that faces you at any
time during your day, and that your valuing of it and your reinforcing
of it does nothing but keep you blinded to the already existing
perfection of you.

This is the only way shifts of perception are going to begin to be
experienced by you, because you bring a conscientious choice to bear
upon the way you relate to your world, where you are choosing to come
from as you observe everything that is going on. You have to start with
yourself.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You will never realize the utter uselessness of attack EXCEPT by
recognizing that your attack on YOURSELF had no effects.
</div> 

Why?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For others DO react to attack if they perceive it, and if you are trying
to attack THEM you will be unable to avoid interpreting this &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; their reaction to your attack &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; as reinforcement.
</div> 

Reinforcement of what? Reinforcement of the idea that taking control
through the use of force, through the sheer use of will, is valuable and
does accomplish something&mdash;does accomplish something while you are
still a dedicated orphan. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ONLY place where you can cancel out all reinforcement is in
YOURSELF. For YOU are always the first point of your attack&hellip;
</div> 

Like a pilot of a plane once said to a potential passenger who was
afraid of crashing, &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t worry. I&rsquo;m always, the
pilot is always the first one at the scene of the accident.&rdquo;

The ONLY place where you can cancel out all reinforcement is in
YOURSELF. For YOU are always the first point of your attack&hellip;

&hellip; whatever mess occurs, you&rsquo;re the first one to arrive in
the mess.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For YOU are always the first point of your attack, and if THIS has never
been it HAS no consequences.

The Holy Spirit&rsquo;s love is your strength&hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; why? Because it&rsquo;s singular, and it is you in your right
Mind experiencing the Truth. And so there is no confusion in you when
you let that register with you&mdash;which won&rsquo;t happen until you
abandon your so-called &ldquo;right&rdquo; to be an independent agent
for change, an independent creator.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit&rsquo;s love is your strength, for yours &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; as an orphan &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is divided and therefore not real. You could not trust your own
love when you have ATTACKED it. You cannot learn of perfect love with a
split mind because a split mind has MADE itself a poor learner. You
tried to make the separation eternal &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; in other words, your intending getting the divorce was for it
to be permanent.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You tried to make the separation eternal because you wanted to retain
the characteristics of creation with your own CONTENT.
</div> 

[laughing] In other words, with everything you made up, and everything
you would in the future make up.

The nature of Creation is eternal. Creation is eternal. And you want to
maintain that with your own creations.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet creation &hellip;
</div> 

Listen to this.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; creation is NOT of you&hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; you&rsquo;re not God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet creation is NOT of you, and poor learners need special teaching. You
have learning handicaps in a very literal sense.

There are areas in your learning skills which are so impaired that you
can progress only under constant, clear-cut direction, provided by a
Teacher Who can TRANSCEND your limited resources.
</div> 

Transcend your tiny sense of orphanhood.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He BECOMES your Resource, because of YOURSELF you CANNOT learn.
</div> 

You as a tiny, little, piss-ant orphan&mdash;poor little you&mdash;of
yourself cannot learn, because the state of mind which sees itself as
weak and little, cannot look where the Truth can be found, because it
insists on looking and can only look within the narrow confines &hellip;

(PAUL: Just a moment.)

&hellip; of isolation and aloneness.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The learning situation in which you placed yourself &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; when you got your divorce.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; IS impossible, and in this situation you clearly require a
special Teacher and a special curriculum. Poor learners are not good
choices for teachers, either for themselves or for anyone else.
</div> 

Which is one of the reasons that it&rsquo;s not a good idea to take on
your Brother as a student when you have no resource from which to teach
him that&rsquo;s any better than the resource he already has. And if his
resource is tiny, isolated aloneness, and yours is tiny, isolated
aloneness, neither of you can learn anything new from each other.
That&rsquo;s why we&rsquo;re getting our own heads on straight first.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Poor learners are not good choices for teachers, either for themselves
or for anyone else. You would hardly turn to THEM to establish the
curriculum by which they can ESCAPE from their limitations. If they
understood what is beyond them they would not BE handicapped.
</div> 

Now as we read this, it sounds like a rather bleak picture of you. But
it&rsquo;s only a clear picture of the absurd, of the absurdity of the
tiny way in which you&rsquo;re looking at yourself, when you have
another option available to you. And so it is not bleak because
you&rsquo;re not stuck in it.

And it&rsquo;s my task to remind you that there is a larger picture,
that there is Reality, and that you are not what you believe you are.
You are at the Point of Perfection and you must understand yourself
therefrom. And my constant encouragement to you is not to believe this
bleak picture, and not to believe the definitions that you have come up
with on your own, because there is something far greater for you to be
experiencing, which it is your Birthright to be experiencing.

And any of the self-righteousness that you feel as a result of all of
the great effort you put forth in being the best damned independent
orphan that existed, means nothing, accomplishes nothing, has
accomplished nothing. And therefore, you can afford to abandon it, and
question the hit you get from the feeling of self-righteousness.

Now I&rsquo;ve been asking you to be alert for when you are offended.
Next week I want you to give your attention to when you feel
self-righteous. Whether it&rsquo;s offense or whether it&rsquo;s
self-righteousness, there&rsquo;s always inequity in the picture. Any
[in]equality&mdash;someone is less than you; you&rsquo;re more than some
else; you&rsquo;re better than someone else, or someone else is more
offensive than you; someone else is stronger than you therefore
you&rsquo;re weaker&mdash;self-righteously, though, you are better and
greater and stronger than they are. You see? There&rsquo;s always
inequity.

And always you engage in activities of equalizing, which simply means
that the two of you end up in a struggle whereby you arrive at a point
where you&rsquo;re worn out and you abandon the struggle in mutual
agreement to take a rest&mdash;not abandon the struggle, but to take a
rest. Like arm wrestling, so you rest till you get your second wind, and
then you get back to your offendedness or your self-righteousness.

And all the time you&rsquo;re functioning in the orphanage, when
you&rsquo;re not an orphan at all. And you don&rsquo;t need to continue
to be caught in the exhilarating drama of the overcoming of inequity.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You do not know the meaning of love, and that IS your handicap. Do not
attempt to teach yourselves what you do not understand, and do not try
to set up curriculum goals where yours have clearly failed. YOUR
learning goal has been NOT to learn&hellip;
</div> 

I realize you didn&rsquo;t think that was the case.

But &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
YOUR learning goal has been NOT to learn, and this CANNOT lead to
successful learning.
</div> 

The moment you saw yourself as an orphan, you began to experience
yourself as a collection of thoughts, a streaming of ideas, that can be
identified as the ego. And the ego&rsquo;s insane curriculum is,
&ldquo;Seek and do not find.&rdquo;

Therefore &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
YOUR learning goal has been NOT to learn&hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; when you&rsquo;re identified as an orphan &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and this CANNOT lead to successful learning.
</div> 

You see, an orphan can never become a legitimate son or daughter of
anything.

The only thing that will be meaningful will be the realization that you
are not, cannot have been, and never have been an orphan. That is the
answer. And that answer comes from outside the arena of the concept of
orphanhood.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
YOUR learning goal has been NOT to learn, and this CANNOT lead to
successful learning. You cannot transfer what you have not learned, and
the impairment of the ability to generalize is a crucial learning
failure. Would you ask those who have FAILED to learn what learning aids
are what learning aids are FOR? THEY DO NOT KNOW. For if they could
interpret the aids correctly they would have learned from them.

We have said that the ego&rsquo;s rule is, &ldquo;Seek and do NOT
find.&rdquo; Translated into curricular terms, this is the same as
saying, &ldquo;TRY to learn but do NOT succeed.&rdquo; The result of
this curriculum goal is obvious. Every legitimate teaching aid, every
real instruction, and every sensible guide to learning WILL BE
MISINTERPRETED.
</div> 

You know what that means? It means that whatever insight might be
experienced, whatever sense might be made out of what&rsquo;s being
taught, will immediately be translated into the language of orphanhood
in orphanland, and will be put to use for the purposes that orphans
employ&mdash;which is not to get out of the orphanage. You see?

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Every legitimate teaching aid, every real instruction, and every
sensible guide to learning WILL BE MISINTERPRETED.
</div> 

And misused.

It happens everyday with the Course. Something is read, a little light
bulb goes on, and then it gets turned to the advantage of the so-called
ego reading it, and that one believes that now he has some leverage of a
higher nature and a more spiritual quality with which to coerce his
Brother into behavior that is more acceptable to the Course, or than
what it was before.

The purpose of the Course is not to teach you how to be a better orphan,
and how to have a more fulfilling experience of being in an orphanage.
The purpose is to get you out of the orphanage. The purpose is to reveal
to you that the very concept of an orphanage is meaningless, because
there are no orphans.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Every legitimate teaching aid, every real instruction, and every
sensible guide to learning WILL BE MISINTERPRETED. For they are all for
learning facilitation, which this strange curriculum goal &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; the ego&rsquo;s.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is AGAINST. If you are trying to learn how NOT to learn, and
are using the aim of teaching to DEFEAT itself, what can you expect BUT
confusion? The curriculum does not make SENSE.

This kind of &ldquo;learning&rdquo; has so weakened your mind that you
CANNOT love, for the curriculum you have chosen is AGAINST love, and
amounts to a course in HOW TO ATTACK YOURSELF.
</div> 

What is love? Love is what happens when you abandon your isolation and
join with something else; become intimate and with and undefended
against something else, where you share without defense.

But the ego&rsquo;s insane curriculum is intent upon maintaining
boundaries. It is intent upon not joining. It is intent upon constantly
reinforcing and re-substantiating isolation.

Be sure that as you learn from the Course and your association with it,
that you do not take what you are learning to be a better tool for a
higher level of enforcing isolation.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This kind of &ldquo;learning&rdquo; has so weakened your mind that you
CANNOT love, for the curriculum you have chosen is AGAINST love, and
amounts to a course in HOW TO ATTACK YOURSELF.
</div>

Now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
A necessary minor, supplementing this major curriculum goal, is learning
how NOT to overcome the split which made this goal believable.
</div> 

In other words, the goal of the ego is, &ldquo;Seek and do not
find.&rdquo; See separation, see isolation, and learn how to make it a
better and better experience, a less and less uncomfortable
experience&mdash;which, of course, is impossible.

Now that&rsquo;s what the ego&rsquo;s course teaches. The minor that
needs to be added to that for purpose of explanation is that, &ldquo;You
will never look to the real problem to correct it.&rdquo; In other
words, you will stay constantly preoccupied with tension, and offense
against your Brother, and self-righteousness against your Brother,
without ever looking to see the fundamental postulate from which all of
these behaviors arise&mdash;which is that you, which you&rsquo;ve
conveniently forgotten, have a Father that you got a divorce from.

And of course, that&rsquo;s what we&rsquo;re undoing by virtue of
bringing it right out on the table and shining the light on it, so that
even if you don&rsquo;t see how it is that that could have happened, how
you could have done that, at least the idea is there registering with
you for you to explore further, because that&rsquo;s the beginning of
the undoing of the basic mistaken postulate.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
A necessary minor&hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; like a major and a minor in college.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
A necessary minor, supplementing this major curriculum goal, is learning
how NOT to overcome the split &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; the divorce from your Father.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; which made this goal believable. And you can NOT overcome it,
for all YOUR learning is on its BEHALF.
</div> 

Or it all has been on that; on its behalf. Now you&rsquo;re beginning to
weaken it by considering another option.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet your will speaks against your learning as your learning speaks
against your will, and so you fight AGAINST learning and succeed, for
that IS your will. But you do not realize, even yet, that there IS
something you DO will to learn, and that you can learn it because it IS
your will to do so.
</div> 

See, it&rsquo;s not all bad. I&rsquo;ll give you a few strokes.

You need to remember that you&rsquo;re not behind the Point of
Perfection. And so there is a will in you to be what you divinely Are,
no matter how you&rsquo;ve altered your perception of your will to serve
this false goal of &ldquo;seeking and not finding;&rdquo; of being, for
lack of better words, of royal birth but ignoring your Birthright.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You who have tried to learn what you do NOT will should take heart, for
although the curriculum you set yourself is depressing indeed, it is
merely ridiculous&hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; you see, it&rsquo;s really inconsequential. It is not something
to take so seriously. It&rsquo;s merely ridiculous. It&rsquo;s pure
nonsense. And you need to lighten up regarding your assessment of the
curriculum you&rsquo;ve involved yourself in, and the coursework
you&rsquo;ve done and the hours and lifetimes of lab work you&rsquo;ve
done. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Is it POSSIBLE that the way to achieve a goal is NOT to attain it?
Resign NOW as your own teachers.
</div> 

Oh, but that&rsquo;ll put you out of a job! Oh, but that&rsquo;ll you
put out of an identity.

No, it&rsquo;ll put you out of an identification.

Remember we talked about the difference between an identification and
Identity. Identification is a concept; a picture you&rsquo;ve drawn
about yourself. And your Identity is what is, unchangeably.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Resign NOW as your own teachers. THIS resignation will NOT lead to
depression.
</div> 

And I&rsquo;m going to qualify that. This resignation, if it&rsquo;s
genuine, will not lead to depression.

But if you&rsquo;re going to toy with it, if you&rsquo;re going to
resign as your teacher to test the waters, or to look good, and you do
approach it with halfway decent sincerity, your ego is going to become
very depressed, because why? Because it will bring to your experience
the perception of failure that we talked about last week.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
THIS resignation &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; if it is genuine &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; will NOT lead to depression. It is merely the result of an
honest appraisal of what you have taught yourselves, and of the learning
outcomes which have resulted.
</div> 

But you see, it doesn&rsquo;t need to be depressing, because it&rsquo;s
merely ridiculous. You took a lot of time and you had a lot of fun doing
the ridiculous. It caused no actual consequences. It didn&rsquo;t cause
your Father to disown you. So there has been no cost to it, except the
cost of being ignorant of the Truth about you, and believing that your
ignorance was an unpleasant experience that was real, that seemed to
cause you actual suffering. But all that happened was a ridiculous
endeavor.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Under the proper learning conditions, which you can neither provide nor
understand, you will become excellent learners AND teachers.
</div> 

Let&rsquo;s read that again.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Under the proper learning conditions, which you &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; as an orphan &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; can neither provide nor understand, you will become excellent
learners AND teachers. But it is not so yet, and will not BE so until
the whole learning situation, as YOU have set it up, is reversed.
</div> 

Whew. Oh, boy, big project, huh? Until the whole learning situation is
reversed.

To reverse the learning situation is the equivalent of neglecting to
look through the large end of the binoculars, and turning them around to
look through the small end of the binoculars. The reversal of the
learning situation has entirely to do with something real simple: no
longer approaching everything as an independent, tiny, little entity,
all by yourself, isolated and alone.

Abandoning that in favor of doing everything that you were doing alone
joined, so that the isolation is broken that causes your ignorance to
constantly be reinforced. And instead, having the experience of that
which is nothing more than your right Mind&mdash;the Holy
Spirit&mdash;guiding you and teaching you how to see Reality as it
really is, instead of how it looks through the lens of orphanhood. You
see?

A miracle is sudden shift of perception. Not a sudden shift of activity.
Not a sudden shift of endeavors. Not a new way of being with your
Brothers through mutual agreements. Not hard work. But a willingness to
look with innocent eyes; a willingness to look with fresh eyes that are
led in what they see by the loving support of guidance of one who knows
what is really there, who stands on behalf of your seeing what is really
there because it&rsquo;s your Birthright, and who therefore stands in
total support of you&mdash;you who you truly Are.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your learning POTENTIAL, properly understood, is limitless because it
will lead you to God.
</div> 

It will lead you to the conscious experience of That which is infinite.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You can TEACH the way to Him AND learn it, if you follow the Teacher Who
knows it, and His curriculum for learning it. The curriculum is totally
unambiguous because the goal is NOT divided, and the means and the end
are in COMPLETE accord.
</div> 

In other words, &ldquo;seek and you will find&rdquo; is an endeavor [in
which] the goal and the result are in complete accord with each other.
But to &ldquo;seek something and not find it,&rdquo; is for the goal and
the end result to not be in accord. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The curriculum is totally unambiguous because the goal is NOT divided,
and the means and the end are in COMPLETE accord. You need offer only
&hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; UNDIVIDED ATTENTION.
</div> 

Your attention is God&rsquo;s treasure. So to reverse the whole learning
situation that you&rsquo;re caught in is accomplished by a very simple
thing: your undivided attention.

Your attention that is given to your encounter with your Brother or your
Sister, or you&rsquo;re cleaning your house, or you&rsquo;re working on
your car, you&rsquo;re engaging with everything with undivided
attention. A willingness to be totally present, and to be present with
it with whatever you&rsquo;re experiencing &ldquo;hand-in-hand,&rdquo;
we&rsquo;ll say, or we could say, &ldquo;mind-in-mind&rdquo; with your
Teacher, so that you are not spending a single moment interpreting
what&rsquo;s happening.

For your mind to no longer be divided into consciousness and the
interpretation of what you&rsquo;re conscious of, constitutes a
singularity that allows what everything is, to be experienced directly
by you, because you are not exercising a right or a preference to see it
in any way different from what it is; to see it without inserting your
own little bias or torque to it. You see? Where you&rsquo;re willing to
be with something without thinking that you, because of your unique
separateness, can bring something extra to bear upon it that will
&ldquo;add to it&rdquo; in any way.

And when you arrive at that simplicity, you&rsquo;re left with what a
thing really is. You will call it an experience of illumination. You
will call it something of the equivalent of divine illumination. It will
be an obviously holy experience to you; very different from the ones you
had while you&rsquo;re making everything up and you are devoted to your
own righteousness.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You need offer only UNDIVIDED ATTENTION. Everything else will be
&hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; GIVEN you.
</div> 

Damn. Brings you right back to that insulting position of finding that
you&rsquo;re a kept man or a kept woman. Nobody in your own right.
Everything is given to you, with no ability to earn it for yourself.
It&rsquo;s insulting, isn&rsquo;t it?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Everything else will be GIVEN you. For it is YOUR will to learn aright,
and nothing can oppose the will of God&rsquo;s Son. His learning is as
unlimited as HE is.
</div> 

It&rsquo;s as unlimited as the one whose neither behind the Point of
Perfection nor advancing toward it.

You know, another simple way of talking about bringing your undivided
attention&mdash;which is really the key to becoming free of the baggage
of misperceptions&mdash;is to say, &ldquo;Be curious.&rdquo; This is not
heavy-duty, hard work that&rsquo;s going to take heavy machinery to
blast you out of your rut. To bring undivided attention is to be willing
to give up your &ldquo;feeling offended,&rdquo; or your &ldquo;need for
defense,&rdquo; long enough to just simply be really curious. Curiosity
means an invitation to be aware of what you haven&rsquo;t been aware of
before. It&rsquo;s an act of faith with confidence that lets you dare to
be undefended enough to have an experience of delight. And that&rsquo;s
what this is all about.

I love you all. And I look forward to being with you next week.

Two things. Be alert this week for when you employ righteousness. And
also remember to be curious frequently. Abandon all the
self-preservation, abandon the need to be serious, abandon the need to
defend yourself, even if it&rsquo;s just for moments during your day.
But maybe a hundred moments where you just say, &ldquo;Okay, for a
moment I&rsquo;m going to be curious&rdquo;&mdash;&rsquo;cause
that&rsquo;s the key. Okay.

[^1]: T11.5 The Sane Curriculum

