---
title: Feb 26, 2006
ref: "T11.6 The Vision of Christ"
alink: "/acim/text/11/chap1106/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who is joining us on the Internet.

Well, I hope everyone took the occasion of the last week to watch to see
when self-righteousness came into play, because if you did, it provided
you with the opportunity to learn more about it. It seems to be a
positive thing, but at the bottom line, it is vicious; it is demeaning.
It is demoralizing to the one employing it.

And if one pays close attention to the experience of it, it becomes
perfectly obvious that it absolutely inhibits and is the absolute
opposite of miracle-mindedness. The reason is that it is a statement
that miracles can&rsquo;t happen. It is a statement that life is not
fertile soil for miracles. It&rsquo;s fertile soil for inequity.
It&rsquo;s fertile soil for sacrifice. It&rsquo;s fertile soil for the
worst to come to pass.

Self-righteousness only rears its head in the face of threat. It only
rears its head in the face of what I&rsquo;ll call an overt expression
or an overt event of inequity that puts the one who is going to use
self-righteousness at a disadvantage, at a real disadvantage. Now, such
a perception of being, such a perception of life only happens to
orphans, and it&rsquo;s always coupled with the unrighteous.

Self-righteousness. I know you&rsquo;d love to drop the word
&ldquo;self&rdquo; from the front of &ldquo;righteousness.&rdquo; But
I&rsquo;m going to tell you something: only orphans are interested in
righteousness of any kind&mdash;self-righteousness or pure
righteousness. One who is Awake doesn&rsquo;t conceptualize such a thing
as righteousness, and value it and revere it and nourish it and practice
it.

Righteousness is half of a conflicted pair: righteousness and
unrighteousness. When you feel called upon to employ righteousness,
it&rsquo;s because someone unrighteous is behaving in a way that&rsquo;s
putting you to a real disadvantage; one in which actual harm can occur.
Well, think about it. To whom can harm come? It can only seem to come to
one who&rsquo;s forgotten his Birthright. It can only seem to occur to
an orphan. And yet, none of you are orphans.

If you want a miracle, you&rsquo;ve got to abandon the idea that a
miracle can&rsquo;t happen. And in order to abandon the idea that a
miracle can&rsquo;t happen, you&rsquo;ve got to abandon your employment
of self-righteousness. You have to put down both sides of conflict.

Now I&rsquo;m going to give you something new to be with, during this
coming week. It&rsquo;s a statement: God is in His Holy Place and all is
well. Again: God is in His Holy Place and all is well.

This is what orphans have forgotten. And when threat arises&mdash;and
threat can be anything that causes you in your ego state of mind to be
thrown for a curve, thrown off-balance&mdash;the tendency, the knee-jerk
response is to stand in opposition to it; to use force and will power to
bring about equality, still within the orphanage, of course.

And because everyone has forgotten that God is in His Holy Place and all
is well and therefore no real threat has occurred, it is essential to
remember that there is a different arena in which to be; a larger arena
than the orphanage. That is the only thing that will lay the groundwork
for miracle-mindedness. The conviction that each of you has&mdash;and
each of you does have it if your employing self-righteousness&mdash;is
that you are vulnerable, and if you don&rsquo;t stand up for yourself
through the application of will, you will suffer actual damage, whether
it&rsquo;s mental or psychological or physical. That conviction is what
absolutely disallows for a miracle.

Now, there&rsquo;s another aspect to self-righteousness, and that is
that it is mesmeric. Once you get into a self-righteous mode, your mind
when it determines that there is justification for fear because there is
actual threat because you&rsquo;re actually vulnerable, your mind coming
to that conclusion, immediately calls into play in your body, sensations
that support it. Ripping in the solar plexus. Tension. Muscular tension.
And you say, &ldquo;Oh, yes. I&rsquo;m feeling afraid. Ah, fight or
flight is what is called for.&rdquo; And you move right into it.

And if you move into it and you&rsquo;re not successful in equalizing
things, your physical sensations will increase, occupying other areas of
your body. And you will be convinced that if it weren&rsquo;t for the
unrighteous one who&rsquo;s causing you to be defended, you
wouldn&rsquo;t be feeling this. You&rsquo;re feeling it, you say,
you&rsquo;re feeling the physical sensations because your body&rsquo;s
natural instinctive intelligence is telling you a truth. And you get
hooked into a self-fulfilling negative loop. That&rsquo;s what I mean by
&ldquo;mesmerizing.&rdquo;

And you build the case against yourself. But you know what you build it
on? You build it on the sensation that has occurred because, first of
all, you made a mental decision to be committed to the idea that you are
actually a mortal and that you are actually vulnerable; capable of
experiencing irrevocable damage, or damage so severe that it will be
very difficult to recover. And you are committed to that sense of
inability to be whole.

As long as you are committed to an inability to be whole, miracles
cannot happen. That should be very clear and very easy to understand.

And you, if you&rsquo;re going to get out of the trap when it occurs, if
you&rsquo;re going to break free of the mesmerism, you&rsquo;re going to
have to do something like remember that God is in His Holy Place and all
is well. God is in His Holy Place&mdash;place of Wholeness, place of
infinite all-inclusive presence as Wholeness, which you cannot be
outside of. God being in His Holy Place means that every aspect of your
Being is embraced by God being in His Holy Place. And therefore if all
is well because God is in His Holy Place, all is well for you. And the
suggestion that you are vulnerable and susceptible to damage is not
true, and you do not have to validate it. And you do not have to,
thereby, start a mesmeric loop in which you get trapped until something
finally happens where you come back into your right Mind.

Self-righteousness is not your friend. Self-righteousness has no benefit
for you. As with any form of mesmerism, it narrows your attention down
to a very fine point, excluding everything else. And in the absence of
the perspective that whole vision provides, it becomes easy to believe
lies. And to believe them so completely that you cannot see any way out
of it, and therefore it is justifiable to you to bring into play every
ounce of force you can muster up to save yourself, while still being in
the orphanage. And that&rsquo;s the key point.

Okay, let&rsquo;s go to the book.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*The Vision of Christ*[^1]

The ego &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the orphan mindset, in other words.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is trying to teach you how to gain the whole world and lose
your own Soul.
</div>

It isn&rsquo;t that it&rsquo;s really teaching you how to lose your
Soul. The &ldquo;orphan mentality&rdquo; is a denial of Soul itself.

When you said, &ldquo;But, Father, I&rsquo;d rather see it my
way,&rdquo; and you got a divorce, you abandoned your experience of your
connection with your Father and therefore the essential&mdash;and
I&rsquo;m using the word &ldquo;essential&rdquo; there in the context of
the word &ldquo;essence&rdquo;&mdash;the essential Awareness of your
inseparability from the Whole, your inseparability from God, your
inseparability from your Brothers and Sisters, your inseparability from
every aspect of Creation. You could say that your Soul is your innate
capacity to be consciously one with all; recognizing all as inseparable
from your Identity, inseparable from your Being, and you inseparable
from all of it.

When you said you&rsquo;d rather see it your way, you&rsquo;d rather
make up the definitions, you abandoned that. And as long as you stay in
the orphanage, you&rsquo;re in a constant state of denial of it.
You&rsquo;re not letting it in.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit teaches that you CANNOT lose your Soul and there IS no
gain in the world, for OF ITSELF it profits nothing.
</div>

Well, there is no &ldquo;world of itself,&rdquo; but that&rsquo;s the
way you&rsquo;ve defined it as an orphan.

There&rsquo;s no &ldquo;world of itself.&rdquo; There&rsquo;s no
independent universe. There&rsquo;s Creation. And Creation is
inseparable from That which is being It forever.

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit teaches that you CANNOT lose your Soul and there IS no
gain in the world, for OF ITSELF it profits nothing. To invest in
something without profit is surely to impoverish yourself, and the
overhead is high. Not only is there no profit in the investment, but the
cost to YOU is enormous. For this investment costs you the world&rsquo;s
reality by denying YOURS, and gives you nothing in return.
</div>

You could reverse this. By your denying your Reality by saying,
&ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;d rather get a divorce and be an orphan,&rdquo;
it costs you the world&rsquo;s Reality. It costs you the experience of
the Reality of Creation. When you deny your Reality by claiming to be an
independent authorizer, you lose the conscious experience of the
world&rsquo;s Reality as the Kingdom of Heaven. It&rsquo;s that simple.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; this investment costs you the world&rsquo;s reality by denying
YOURS, and gives you nothing in return.
</div>

Except the nothing &hellip; [laughing] the nothing that you get in
return, you haven&rsquo;t had enough sense to realize is nothing. And
you&rsquo;ve decided to make something out of it by making up all kinds
of definitions and mutual agreements.

Now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You CANNOT sell your Soul, but you CAN sell your AWARENESS of it.
</div>

You cannot change What You Are, but you can ignore What You Are. You
cannot change What You Are, but you can believe that you&rsquo;re
something else.

But you can&rsquo;t become something else&mdash;and that&rsquo;s the
whole point. Because you can&rsquo;t become something else, you
haven&rsquo;t become something else. And that&rsquo;s why you&rsquo;re
still neither behind the Point of Perfection nor advancing toward it.

Now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You cannot perceive your Soul, but you will not KNOW it while you
perceive anything ELSE as more valuable.
</div>

Now the reason you can&rsquo;t perceive your Soul is because Soul is not
perceptible. It is not capable of being turned into a perception. Soul
is a direct experience of the nature and substance of your Being, when
you&rsquo;re not preoccupied with anything else.

It&rsquo;s like you can say, &ldquo;I am a man,&rdquo; or &ldquo;I am a
woman,&rdquo; or &ldquo;I am an attorney,&rdquo; or &ldquo;I&rsquo;m a
schoolteacher,&rdquo; or &ldquo;I&rsquo;m a parent,&rdquo; or
&ldquo;I&rsquo;m old,&rdquo; or &ldquo;I&rsquo;m
young&rdquo;&mdash;those are all perceptions. But when you abandon
perceptions that are always the result of thinking, and you go into the
void, when you become still and go into the silence, in that silence
there&rsquo;s one thing that you&rsquo;re perfectly aware of, even if
you don&rsquo;t put words to it.

You find that the experience of Being means &ldquo;I am.&rdquo; That is
not a perception. That&rsquo;s a Knowing, with a capital
&ldquo;K&rdquo;. That is Knowing. Likewise, you cannot perceive your
Soul, but you can &ldquo;Know&rdquo; it in the absence of all thoughts
and all other perceptions.

You see, in the process of waking up, you have a tendency to think that
enlightenment is going to give you new information, new strings of
words, that you can use to think about, or think with, or base your
evaluations and judgments upon through intellectual processes. But when
you take the time to still the &ldquo;thinking mind,&rdquo; to abandon
the opinions and the theories and all the unique little characteristics
of your orphan mindset, and you move into the silence, you don&rsquo;t
find yourself provided with bits of information. You find yourself
provided with experiences that seem to you to be nonspecific. And they
only seem to be nonspecific because there aren&rsquo;t any words
breaking the experience down into bits and pieces that are definable and
usable.

And because it&rsquo;s [the] little bits of and pieces of information
that you have found to be of ultimate value to you, it seems like the
nonspecific experience of, let&rsquo;s say, Peace and Love and Joy are
not valuable and are not particularly meaningful. In other words,
they&rsquo;re relatively useless. And so you don&rsquo;t hang out there
very much, and you don&rsquo;t abide just paying attention to the
experience of Knowing that you&rsquo;re having. You don&rsquo;t pay
attention as though what you&rsquo;re experiencing is, for the first
time, a true experience of you, holding&mdash;within all of its apparent
nonspecificity&mdash;infinite, substantial, meaningful, and illuminating
experiences of Reality.

You like little rests from the trials of the day, and so you&rsquo;ll
meditate and enjoy a little bit of this peace and quiet. &ldquo;Oh, yes.
I&rsquo;m worth twenty minutes a day, taking time out. I will justify
setting everything aside for twenty minutes. After all, I&rsquo;ve been
told that it will reduce my blood pressure and there will be other
physical benefits from it. Therefore, I can afford not to attend to the
emergencies and the real demands of my life, to have a little bit of
quietness.&rdquo; But you have to justify it in your own mind as though
what you&rsquo;re doing is an aside to what&rsquo;s real; something
irrelevant to the &ldquo;real&rdquo; demands of your day.

And yet what I&rsquo;m telling you is that what you&rsquo;re calling the
&ldquo;relevant demands of your day&rdquo; are what are irrelevant to
your conscious experience of What You Truly Are&mdash;so that if you
value the experience, you will opt for the experience more often, paying
closer attention to it without conceptualizing it&mdash;so that the
experience of what Love is and Peace is and Joy is, and so on, might
reveal themselves to you more and more clearly so that what you
experience in that conscious Awareness becomes &ldquo;the means&rdquo;
by which you live in this world.

It&rsquo;s only in this way that the real world is going to be uncovered
to you more and more clearly. It&rsquo;s only in this way that you will
find that the orphanage doesn&rsquo;t exist, and that there&rsquo;s a
larger, unlimited arena of Being that it&rsquo;s your Birthright to be
experiencing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that which is nothing more than your right Mind &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is your strength &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; it is your strength because It is nothing more than your right
Mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit is your strength because He perceives nothing BUT your
Soul as you. He is perfectly aware that you do NOT know yourselves, and
perfectly aware of how to teach you what you are. BECAUSE He loves you,
He will gladly teach you what He loves, for He wills to share it.
Remembering you always, He cannot let you forget your worth. For the
Father never ceases to remind Him of His Son&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and He never ceases to remind His Son &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; of the Father. God is in your memory BECAUSE of Him.
</div>

Because of the Holy Spirit. And because the Holy Spirit is, bottom line,
nothing more than your right Mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You chose to forget your Father &hellip;
</div>

&ldquo;I&rsquo;d rather do it my way. I want a divorce.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You chose to forget your Father but you did not WILL to do so, and
therefore you can decide otherwise. As it was MY decision, so is it
YOURS.
</div>

You see, you couldn&rsquo;t possibly will to forget your Father. You
can&rsquo;t use the only Will there is, which is God&rsquo;s, to
actually successfully deny God. So all you could do was decide to
camouflage your awareness with God by/through the use of your own
definitions, your own fascinations, your own resulting fears. And so you
have forgotten that God is in His Holy Place and all is well.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You do not WANT the world.
</div>

You do not want what is illusion. You do not want what is illusory. You
do not want what you have made up, if what you have made up is nonsense,
meaningless.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The only thing of value in it &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the world &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is whatever part of it you look upon with love.
</div>

Why is that? Because what you&rsquo;re calling &ldquo;creation&rdquo; by
using the words &ldquo;the world,&rdquo; is Creation. And any moment you
choose to look upon what you&rsquo;re calling &ldquo;the world&rdquo;
with love, Creation will light up and be reflected back to you, because
you&rsquo;ve said, &ldquo;I wish to see the evidence of Love.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The only thing of value in it is whatever part of it you look upon with
love.
</div>

You&rsquo;re the key.

The ego says, &ldquo;Seek and do not find.&rdquo; And the reason is,
that from that orphan mindset you are not looking from the place of your
Wholeness with a desire to see Love; you&rsquo;re looking from a place
where you desire to see the definition you have made.

Now it doesn&rsquo;t mean that in the world there is nothing of value.
It means that when you are looking &hellip; [laughing] when you are
looking with your eyes shut, you&rsquo;re not going to see anything
there. But when you say, &ldquo;I wish to see the evidence of
Love,&rdquo; whatever part of Creation you&rsquo;re looking at that you
had called &ldquo;the world,&rdquo; will reveal itself to you because
you will not be blocking what it is from your sight.

Again, you are the key.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This gives it the only reality it will ever have.
</div>

Why? Not because you&rsquo;re &ldquo;giving it&rdquo; the only reality
it will ever have, but because you&rsquo;re not blocking from your
experience the only Reality it ever had, which was that it is the
evidence of the movement of God. It&rsquo;s Creation.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Its value is NOT in itself, but yours IS in you. As self-value comes
from self-EXTENSION&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; making the gift.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; so does the PERCEPTION of self-value come from the projection
of loving thoughts outward. Make the world real unto YOURSELF, for the
real world is the gift of the Holy Spirit, and so it BELONGS to you.
</div>

For you to be seeing the Kingdom of Heaven right here and right now, is
your Birthright. It is what is supposed to be being experienced.

Again, this is another reason it&rsquo;s so important not to say,
&ldquo;There is no world. It&rsquo;s all an illusion.&rdquo; No. What
the orphan has &ldquo;defined it as&rdquo; is an illusion, but what the
orphan has been looking at and defining incorrectly is Creation.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Make the world real unto YOURSELF&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; by looking at it with love and wishing to see the evidence of
Love.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; for the real world is the gift of the Holy Spirit, and so it
BELONGS to you.

Correction is for all who cannot see. To open the eyes of the blind
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; to open the eyes of the orphans &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s mission, for He knows that they have
not lost their vision, but merely sleep.
</div>

What does that mean? It just means that all the while you are
experiencing being conscious, you are, because of the biases you have
applied to your perceptions, unconscious of what everything really
is&mdash;which is why I keep saying that the essential element to waking
up is curiosity; not great deep intellectual studies, but momentary
curiosity brought into play daily. The wish to see more of what is
really there than what you&rsquo;re seeing. That&rsquo;s the way you
break it. That&rsquo;s the way you break the slumber, the ignorance.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; would awaken them from the sleep of forgetting to the
remembering of God.
</div>

And again, let&rsquo;s keep all of this grounded. The &ldquo;remembering
of God&rdquo; amounts to seeing the trees and the flowers and the buds
that are about to spring forth in a context of divinity, rather than one
of materiality. &ldquo;Remembering God&rdquo; is to look and see
Creation, the actual alive Presence of God in everything you are
confronted by every day.

You are constantly confronted with the opportunity to see God. It
isn&rsquo;t as though once a year on the third Thursday of February
there is a ten-minute opportunity to see God and wake up&mdash;where if
you miss your chance, you don&rsquo;t have another opportunity for
another year, and even then you&rsquo;ll only have ten minutes in which
to accomplish it. Absolutely anything that your eyes fall upon at any
moment is the Presence of God, and the opportunity to experience God
right there is what you are confronted with, and the opportunity
doesn&rsquo;t go away. And so you&rsquo;re never at a loss. And every
moment can offer you the promise of delight.

But you need to start taking advantage of it. And you will not take
advantage of it if you &ldquo;love&rdquo; to be self-righteous. Because
at the bottom line, self-righteousness says, &ldquo;I am a vulnerable
mortal who has developed some significant power to survive in this awful
state. And I am committed to existing this way and continuing to
overcome the odds.&rdquo; That is an absolute statement of unwillingness
to recognize God anywhere. No, you need to recognize the simplicity and
the truth of that.

I understand completely that when you are feeling threatened, it seems
absolutely clear to you that there&rsquo;s no redemption [laughing]
possible for this unrighteous one who&rsquo;s causing you the problem.
They are guilty of what they are doing, and you cannot afford to think
any better of them than to acknowledge their mean-spiritedness and their
intent to do you harm. That&rsquo;s why I said that self-righteousness
is mesmeric. I am aware that it seems totally unreasonable to you to
make a shift, to remember that here is one more opportunity, amongst
thousands of opportunities in that very moment with all of the other
things that are there to experience, to be willing to acknowledge the
Presence of God there. I know it seems difficult.

But, you know what? The truth we&rsquo;re talking about is not
irrelevant to your daily lives. It isn&rsquo;t something wonderful to
mull over in your mind and soothe yourself with, while you&rsquo;re
suffering through this existence. It calls for you to be decisive.

To &ldquo;be decisive&rdquo; is not the same as being willful. To
&ldquo;be decisive&rdquo; is to recognize what works and what
doesn&rsquo;t, and to do what works. And if you have been doing what
doesn&rsquo;t work, and something new comes to your attention, try it.
Do the something new, test the spirits, if you will, and find out. Be
willing to abandon the negative loop that you&rsquo;ve created&mdash;by
introducing a new thought, a new idea.

&ldquo;Oh, God is in His Holy Place and all is well.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Oh, I&rsquo;m neither behind the Point of Perfection nor
advancing toward it.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Oh, my Brother isn&rsquo;t behind the Point of Perfection or
advancing toward it. We&rsquo;re at that Point, and that&rsquo;s where I
must be looking from.&rdquo;

You&rsquo;ve got to do it.

The Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; would awaken them &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you, the orphans &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; from the sleep of forgetting to the remembering of God.
Christ&rsquo;s eyes are open, and He will look upon whatever you see
with love if you accept His vision as yours.
</div>

It&rsquo;s important, what I just read.

Some of you might have not understood fully what it means that,
&ldquo;you are neither behind the Point of Perfection nor advancing
toward it; that you are at that Point and must understand yourself
therefrom.&rdquo; You might have thought that I meant that that was to
be the new postulate in your mind, and that you were to think up a new
understanding of yourself based upon that truth that,
&ldquo;you&rsquo;re neither behind the Point of Perfection nor advancing
toward it.&rdquo;

But this has nothing to do with your thinking. The experience of
&ldquo;not being behind the Point of Perfection nor advancing toward
it,&rdquo; is something that you will not experience until you abandon
orphanhood. It is something you will not experience until you abandon
your independence. In order to have the experience and the illumination
and the transformation associated with the truth of that statement, you
will have to quiet &ldquo;your own thinking.&rdquo; You will have to
devalue it and set it aside. And what? Join with one who knows: the Holy
Spirit, or me, or the Father. And your capacity, your divine capacity to
experience the truth of that statement, the meaning of that statement so
that you are &ldquo;understanding yourself therefrom,&rdquo; will be
revealed to you in the partnership you have established by virtue of
having abandoned your independence.

So I am not saying that now, instead of saying that you are a mortal,
you&rsquo;re a physical body that came through physical processes in a
physical universe, blah, blah, blah&mdash;I&rsquo;m not saying that
instead of that, you&rsquo;re now to say, &ldquo;I am a divine Idea. And
I&rsquo;m neither behind the Point of Perfection and I&rsquo;m not
advancing toward it; I&rsquo;m at that Point and from now on I&rsquo;m
going to begin to understand myself therefrom. Let&rsquo;s see now. If
I&rsquo;m not behind the Point of Perfection and not advancing toward
it, well, it must mean this, and this, and this, and this, and
this.&rdquo;&mdash;and listen to the running stream of thoughts, of
thinking. Well, you&rsquo;re still an orphan doing your own good
thinking and your own good reasoning, so that you without ever having to
join, you still firmly ensconced in your independence, can now embody
what I&rsquo;ve been saying and the truth of what the Course is saying,
all by yourself. No. No.

That&rsquo;s what this means.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Christ&rsquo;s eyes are open, and He will look upon whatever you see
with love if you accept His vision as yours.
</div>

If you will invite my Vision in, if you will invite the Holy
Spirit&rsquo;s Vision in, so that you are filled with, for you, a new
experience of Being, different from being an orphan.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit keeps the vision of Christ &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; keeps it. Keeps it intact. Holds it secure for you while you
dally with the ego.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit keeps the vision of Christ for every Son of God who
sleeps. In His sight the Son of God is perfect&hellip;

&hellip; the Son of God &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is perfect, and He longs to share His vision with you.
</div>

Your right Mind longs to share itself with you because it&rsquo;s yours,
and it is actually impossible for you not to be including it, for it not
to be your full conscious experience of Being. And because it&rsquo;s
impossible, then every attempt you make to do the impossible will end up
not working, because What You Are&mdash;since it can&rsquo;t be
annihilated&mdash;will constantly presence itself as you until you
finally let it in, until you finally stop denying it, until you finally
find no value in independent self-righteousness.

This is so important. And it should be encouraging, and it should give
you faith to have enough trust to let go and invite in help.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit keeps the vision of Christ for every Son of God who
sleeps. In His sight the Son of God is perfect, and He longs to share
His vision with you. He will show you the real world because God gave
you Heaven. Through Him your Father calls His Son to remember. The
awakening of His Son begins with his investment in the REAL world, and
by this he will learn to re-invest in HIMSELF.
</div>

What could that mean, &ldquo;re-invest in HIMSELF&rdquo;? What would it
mean for you to reinvest in yourself? It would mean to give your energy
and attention and fascination and love to the Real One that you are, to
the Holy Spirit in you, to that which is nothing more than your right
Mind, which is the Presence of the Mind of God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For reality is one with the Father AND the Son, and the Holy Spirit
blesses the real world in Their Name.

When you have seen this real world&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; mind you, [laughing] this &ldquo;real world&rdquo; that
you&rsquo;re going to see is going to look like the community you live
in. That&rsquo;s where it&rsquo;s going to become illuminated.
We&rsquo;re not talking la-la-land. We&rsquo;re talking about
transformed experience right here and right now.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you have seen this real world, as you will surely do, you WILL
remember us.
</div>

And conversely, when you remember us and invite us in, you will begin to
see the real world.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet you must learn the cost of sleeping, and REFUSE to pay it.
</div>

This exercise this past week of observing when self-righteousness comes
into play, and observing the detrimental effects it has on you, and
observing how it causes your awareness to shut down, excluding almost
everything except the one offensive thing you&rsquo;ve become fascinated
with, you can&rsquo;t help but realize how much it&rsquo;s costing you,
and that it is not useful at all. And that you have an alternative, and
you can decide for the alternative, no matter how unintelligent it
seems, no matter how irrational it seems from within your mesmerized
state of seeing things, to change your mind, to abandon the
self-protection that you&rsquo;re engaged in.

Now, continue to be alert for the occasions of self-righteousness,
because it&rsquo;s really essential for you to find out just how much
it&rsquo;s costing you. You can end up immobilized in your living room
where the TV is playing, with the sun shining outside, life going on in
your community, everyone else you know going on about their
business&mdash;and you, mesmerized by the offensiveness of what&rsquo;s
happening and how unfair it is. It keeps you so focused that you do
nothing, except sit in the middle of what seems to you to be a
self-satisfying expression of disgust at the situation and how unfair it
is. It costs you your capacity to go about your daily activities that
you really want to do. And it costs you your capacity to feel joy. It
costs you your capacity to feel light and buoyant. It costs you your
freedom to even just live a normal, in quotes &ldquo;human life&rdquo;
unquote. That&rsquo;s what it cost you.

But even more, it costs you your capacity to experience
miracle-mindedness. And so, it&rsquo;s completely self-defeating to
everything you say you&rsquo;re interested in, which is to wake up.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you must learn the cost of sleeping, and REFUSE to pay it. Only
then will you decide to awaken. And then the real world will spring to
your sight, for Christ has never slept. He is waiting to be seen, for He
has never lost sight of YOU. He looks quietly on the real world, which
He would share with you because He knows of the Father&rsquo;s Love for
Him. And knowing this, He would give you what is yours. In perfect peace
He &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; I &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; waits for you at His Father&rsquo;s altar&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; where is that? Right in the middle of you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; holding out the Father&rsquo;s Love to you in the quiet light
of the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s blessing. For the Holy Spirit will lead
everyone home to his Father, where Christ waits as his Self.
</div>

Everything about you really, everything about what you really are, is,
at this very moment and at every moment, geared for, for lack of better
words, the reunification of you, the singularizing of you, the
defragmenting of you&mdash;not the defragmenting of the poor little
orphan you are, but the defragmenting of the you that you really are so
that you&rsquo;re experiencing What You Really Are totally, and
therefore without confusion and without conflict.

We&rsquo;ve talked in the past about the fact that you walk with mighty
companions. Being itself, at this moment, has one goal for all orphans,
and that is that they realize there ain&rsquo;t no orphanage, there
ain&rsquo;t no orphans, and you are not alone. You never could be alone.
There&rsquo;s no value in trying to be alone. You&rsquo;re accomplishing
nothing by believing that you are and that you can survive that way. And
that a lot of nothing has been happening. And you&rsquo;ve been missing
out on the real thing, while you&rsquo;ve been in the middle of the real
thing, not seeing it because you&rsquo;ve decided to see it a little bit
differently from the way it really is.

Again, you walk with mighty companions. You are constantly supported in
realization. You are constantly supported in light bulbs going on,
aha&rsquo;s occurring, right here and right now. And it&rsquo;s not
impossible. It&rsquo;s not even hard.

To make commitment to the impossibility of a miracle is silly. But until
you abandon the employment of it, it will seem to be absolutely real,
and it will seem to be frightening, and it will seem to be limiting.

So this week, let there be a little bit of buoyancy, a little bit of
willingness to be curious. Refresh &hellip; refresh your mind with the
intent to be curious to see the more of God that is right here in front
of you, knowing that you have, well, universal support for it. Let the
support in.

Be willing to acknowledge, &ldquo;I am not an orphan who has to lift
himself up by his own bootstraps. And so I&rsquo;m going to abandon that
endeavor, and I&rsquo;m going to invite my Brothers and the Holy Spirit
and all those who are Awake to help me. I&rsquo;m going to let you in.
I&rsquo;m willing to not be so private anymore.&rdquo; And keep this
intent alive in your mind. It will provide you with a brand-new
week&mdash;I mean by that, with new things that haven&rsquo;t happened
before.

I look forward to being with you all next week.

[^1]: T11.6 The Vision of Christ

