---
title: Mar 4, 2006
ref: T11.6 The Vision of Christ
alink: "/acim/text/11/chap1106/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who is joining us on the Internet.

I&rsquo;m going to jump right in with a question. Where do you go to get
information about how you are? The simple fact is that few of you go to
the right spot. Where you do go is to your body. &ldquo;How am I today?
Any aches or pains? Anything acting up?&rdquo; And you give yourself a
little physical exam in order to find out how you are. And how many of
you have felt stuck this week with the information you got when you went
to that source?

Before I continue I want to point out something else. You tend to give
your body a personality, or the parts of your body a personality.
Generally speaking, you might find yourself saying, &ldquo;Oh, I&rsquo;m
afraid my body is giving up on me.&rdquo; Or if you have a rash, you
say, &ldquo;My, that&rsquo;s a very angry rash,&rdquo; as though your
body is expressing emotion, capable of feeling emotion and expressing it
on itself. And when you do that, you make it sound as though your body
&ldquo;in and of itself&rdquo; is something intelligent, just like
you&rsquo;re intelligent. This other thing called your body is
intelligent. And it can, oh, how many of you said, &ldquo;My stomach is
objecting to the meal I just ate&rdquo;? You see? And you create a
picture in your mind of your body having a life and a mind of its own,
capable of making decisions and coming to conclusions, and acting out
its feelings. This is not wise, because you have everything 180 degrees
out of sync.

The fact is, as I&rsquo;ve said before, your body is the visibility and
tangibility of your Individuality. Your individuality, for lack of
better words, is mental, is Mind. Your body reflects whatever word
you&rsquo;re giving. It&rsquo;s always been this way. And so you give a
word, even before you have a physical complaint.

Oh, there&rsquo;s another word: complaint. &ldquo;My body has a
complaint. It&rsquo;s complaining.&rdquo; You see? I mean, you&rsquo;re
very familiar with these words that seem to portray it as having a life
of its own.

But before your body offers a complaint, you have a mindset. Your
mindset might be one of anger. Your mindset might be one of jealousy. It
might be one of self-righteousness. It might be one of offense. And in
that hurt mental frame of mind, what are you doing? You&rsquo;re sending
out messages which, because the body is the visibility and tangibility
of your Individuality, will reflect back to you exactly what you are
embodying by means of the words you are choosing to use in your mind and
the conceptualizations you have built in your mind.

And then, you stupidly say, &ldquo;Why, I don&rsquo;t know what happened
but all of a sudden my body is falling apart,&rdquo; or, &ldquo;All of a
sudden, I have this headache,&rdquo; as though [laughing] wonder of
wonders, it happened without your participation. The fact is that
whatever you&rsquo;re experiencing physically is always secondary to an
originating thought, an originating attitude which you have chosen to
embrace, and by embracing it you have embodied it. You have made it your
own. You have possessed it. And what? It&rsquo;s going to show up. And
so you say, &ldquo;I think my body may be giving up on
me&rdquo;&mdash;like, &ldquo;I did something wrong and I must have
really hurt its feelings, and it&rsquo;s giving up on me.&rdquo;

If you don&rsquo;t remember the order of things&mdash;that the idea
comes first; that you are Mind, not matter; that you are Mind, not body;
and that body is just the visibility and tangibility of your mental
presence, if I may put it that way&mdash;if you don&rsquo;t remember
that, and then you go to your body to find out how you are, you are
going to be fooled, you are going to be confused, and you&rsquo;re going
to believe what you&rsquo;re confused about.

Now truth is useless if it isn&rsquo;t relevant. Everything that
we&rsquo;re reading about is useless if it isn&rsquo;t relevant to your
health. You know that I keep saying that you&rsquo;re the Christ, that
you are the Presence of God, that you are what God is being right there
where you are, and that you&rsquo;re neither behind the Point of
Perfection nor advancing toward it. And yet you will abandon that truth
in favor of an ache or a pain, and the characterization you apply to
that ache or pain, or whatever physical symptoms you might be
experiencing. And so you don&rsquo;t catch &ldquo;the thought,&rdquo;
and correct it. And you don&rsquo;t have healing. You don&rsquo;t have a
reversal, because you have not reversed the thought.

Now when you seem to be faced with a physical condition that is
persisting, you must remember what the solution is. And the solution
does not lie in believing the symptom. The solution lies in remembering
Who You Are. &ldquo;I am my Father&rsquo;s Son. I am my Father&rsquo;s
Daughter. I am the direct expression of God. And His Expression is
perfect. I cannot afford to continue to pay attention to my best
assessment of the situation, based upon the data I have gathered from my
body.&rdquo;

What happens when you have a child running around who is out of sorts,
cranky, whose every act is one that doesn&rsquo;t fit, one that causes
disturbance? You don&rsquo;t just let the child continue. You tell the
child, &ldquo;Go sit down. Sit down and be quiet. And I want you to
think about whether what you&rsquo;re doing is making you happy or not.
And if it&rsquo;s not making you happy, I want you to think about what
you&rsquo;re going to do to change your behavior so that what you do
does make you happy.&rdquo; You need to sit yourself down. You need to
hogtie yourself, to remember&mdash;when you&rsquo;re running away with
the data that your body supplied you&mdash;to remember to shut up, to
shut up your mind, to stop putting it to the use you&rsquo;re putting it
to, and to choose for your peace.

&ldquo;No, I&rsquo;ve done that. I did that for about ten minutes an
hour ago. And I did it for about fifteen minutes the hour before that.
And nothing has happened. There is no use.&rdquo; Again, that&rsquo;s
not miracle-mindedness. And all it is, is a call for you to practice a
little bit of self discipline, and stay with the Truth about yourself
longer than ten minutes. If you have to stay in your peace by engaging
in meditation for four hours, do it!

Because once you change your mind, once the decision as to what source
you&rsquo;re going to be using to gather information about how well you
are, once you make a new decision, you will see the evidence. Not
because you have marvelous control over this &ldquo;physical
body,&rdquo; but because your body and your Mind are inseparable, and
the moment you come into singularity in your Mind, you will have the
evidence of harmony. And whatever the symptom is of distress, will fade,
either rapidly or instantaneously, but it will fade.

Until you&rsquo;re awake, don&rsquo;t go to &ldquo;the effect&rdquo; of
your Mind to find out how you are. Go directly to your Mind and bring it
into alignment, bring it into Peace. And do it with diligence. Persist
in it. Persist in it until you have the evidence. And each time you do
this and you have evidence, each successive time you do it, will take
less and less time, because part of your mind will not as strongly be
saying, &ldquo;This isn&rsquo;t going to work.&rdquo;

Your body can&rsquo;t give up on you, but it can reflect back to you
whether you&rsquo;re giving up on yourself. But then, because
you&rsquo;re eternal, you&rsquo;re giving up on yourself doesn&rsquo;t
really mean much, because it&rsquo;s impossible for you to totally give
up on yourself. So you&rsquo;re really not under any kind of threat,
even if you have given up on yourself.

*God is in His Holy Place and all is well.* It is impossible for you to
be anywhere else than in that Holy Place, because God is All There Is of
you. God is All There Is to you. And that is the transformational fact.
That is the fact that corrects illusions, delusions, ignorance,
misunderstanding, and all suffering. That fact is what you need to turn
to, to gather information about how well you are.

It is a very simple thing. It is not too simple. And it is not so simple
that you can&rsquo;t possibly grasp the transformational experience that
will come from it. You are each capable of doing what it is your
Birthright to do&mdash;which is to glorify God, which is to embody God,
or allow God to embody Himself right there where you are.

And it doesn&rsquo;t matter how impossible the circumstance seems to be.
The impossibility of the circumstance is nothing more than an idea that
you are postulating in your mind, and then substantiating by whatever
means you can, or discrediting by whatever means you can. So get about
the business of discrediting authorizations you have been providing that
are contrary to the perfect nature of your Being and of your existence,
including your body and everything in your world.

Stop &ldquo;the thought&rdquo; you are entertaining in its tracks by
replacing it with the idea that is True. If you&rsquo;re experiencing
some physical condition that is not expressing or embodying health,
stop! Stop immediately and say, &ldquo;God, are You creating
this?&rdquo; The answer, of course, will be, &ldquo;No,&rdquo; because
God is not conflicted, God is not fragmented, and the indivisible Nature
of God&rsquo;s Being must be reflected in the indivisible and perfect
harmony of all Creation, because there is nothing else to be manifest
from That which is Pure.

And then, stay in dialogue with God. And if you can&rsquo;t stay in
dialogue with God, then sit down and meditate until you have come into
your peace. And honor that peace of your Being enough to abide with it
and not find the physical symptoms to be more worthy of your attention
than your peace. And of course, out of that peace, your desire, your
natural desire to see the evidence of Love, and to *be* the evidence of
Love.

So use some discipline. And don&rsquo;t settle for ongoing niggling or
overt distresses. And if you are noticing physical symptoms, say,
&ldquo;Oop! I&rsquo;ve gotten off the track. Where? In my mind.&rdquo;
And then ask for help in coming back into your peace, back into your
capacity to feel and recognize Love, rather than fear.

I know there are those this week who were very happy to consider the
statement, &ldquo;God is in His Holy Place and all is well,&rdquo; and
then found themselves not to be in a place of wonder and amazement and
harmony and peace. &ldquo;Well, maybe God is in His Holy Place and
wherever that is, all is well&mdash;but not here.&rdquo; Why? Because
you went to your body to find out how you were. You went to &ldquo;the
effect,&rdquo; while ignoring the cause, while ignoring the source.

If God is infinite Mind and God is embodying Himself right there where
you are, then you are infinite Mind. And if God&rsquo;s Mind is not
conflicted or fragmented or divided, then neither is yours, although you
can think in conflicted ways, but your Mind is singular.

And the avenue out of the suffering that is the result of conflicted
thinking, is what? To abandon thinking. To take time to, with diligence,
meditate and move back into your natural peace, which hasn&rsquo;t been
affected in any way by the conflicted thoughts you were thinking, and
the fear you engendered in yourself as a result. And then honor that
peace enough not to abandon it until the evidence, the visibility and
tangibility of your Individuality begins to reflect the Singularity of
what your Individuality is when you&rsquo;re not thinking and when
you&rsquo;re not characterizing your body as though it has a personality
or a life of its own.

Let&rsquo;s go to the book.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Every Child of God is one in Christ, for his
Being is in Christ as Christ&rsquo;s is in God. [^1]
</div>

We could read it this way: *Every little orphan is one in Christ, for
his Being is in Christ as Christ&rsquo;s is in God.*

This is how you begin to remember Who You Are in spite of the fact that
you have believed that you&rsquo;re an orphan.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Christ&rsquo;s love for you is His love for His
Father, which He knows because He knows His Father&rsquo;s Love for Him.
</div>

Now this can just as easily be read about me being the Christ as it can
be read about *you* truly being the Christ in spite of your belief in
orphanhood.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Christ&rsquo;s love for you is His love for His
Father, which He knows because He knows His Father&rsquo;s Love for Him.
When the Holy Spirit &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; which you could call your Christhood held in trust while you
dally with the ego.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When the Holy Spirit has at last led you to
Christ &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; to your Self &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; at the altar to His Father, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; listen to this &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; perception fuses into knowledge because
perception has become so holy that its transfer to holiness is merely
its natural extension.
</div>

As you yield to the influx of Truth that dawns in your thought, in your
mind, and it becomes clearer and clearer to you so that it becomes
second nature to you&mdash;and this doesn&rsquo;t have to take a long
time&mdash;there is a resulting &ldquo;Aha!&rdquo; of realization. And
that&rsquo;s when the fusion occurs.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When the Holy Spirit has at last led you to
Christ at the altar to His Father, perception fuses into knowledge
because perception has become so holy that its transfer to holiness is
merely its natural extension.
</div>

&ldquo;Oh! I see!&rdquo; That&rsquo;s the experience of the natural
extension. &ldquo;I see! And now I don&rsquo;t see any differently from
the way things Are.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book"> Love transfers to love without any interference,
for the situations are identical. As you perceive more and more common
elements in ALL situations, the transfer of your training under the Holy
Spirit&rsquo;s guidance increases and becomes generalized.
</div>

Now there&rsquo;s an important point here.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As you perceive more and more common elements in
ALL situations, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that means all the situations you run into every day of your
life. It means that spiritual understanding is not an exclusive
experience that draws you further and further away from daily mundane
experiences.

And this is very important, because you do not want to become
spiritually &hellip; well, let&rsquo;s put it this way, you don&rsquo;t
want to become dysfunctional by virtue of your growing spiritual
awareness. And if you think that spiritual awareness has very little to
do with your daily life, then you are going to arrive at a point where
you&rsquo;re trying to separate or be separate from your daily life so
that you may abide in your spiritual awareness. And that will cause you
to be dysfunctional and you will not perceive more and more common
elements in all situations. As a result, the transfer of your training
under the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s guidance will not increase and will not
become generalized.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Gradually you learn to apply it to everyone and
everything, for its applicability IS universal. When this has been
accomplished, perception and knowledge &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; or, as I have called it, Knowing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; have become so similar that they share
the unification of the laws of God.
</div>

This is very important. Most people die because they believe that their
Spirit and their body are two different things existing in two different
or as two different modes of being; one which reflects the truth and one
which does not. And as a result, they see their body as able to act on
its own; a temporary host to that of you which is spiritual. But not a
permanent host, because after all, all it is, is a host. You see? Now
that&rsquo;s the word that you give.

That&rsquo;s the perception that the orphan has of the visibility and
tangibility of Individuality. It sees it as something different from
visibility and tangibility. As a result, the belief is that there can
never really be a true reconciliation of Mind and body, because they are
two opposing things, fundamentally. Stop letting the Truth, stop letting
God&rsquo;s Truth, stop letting the nature of Reality be something
different from and fundamentally at odds with everything in your human
experience, including your body, including your world.

It is inevitable for you to perceive more and more common elements in
all situations. It&rsquo;s essential for you to.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What is one &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; not separated. Indivisible.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What is one cannot be perceived as separate, and
the denial of the separation IS the re-instatement of knowledge.
</div>

Of Knowing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
At the altar of God, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; which is where? Right in the center of your Being.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
At the altar of God, the holy perception of
God&rsquo;s Son &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; becomes so enlightened that light
streams into it, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the infilling of the awareness of Truth streams in,
illuminating your awareness and uncovering to you that this tiny sense
of orphanhood is absolute sheer nonsense, meaningless, and that it has
been foolish for you to have been laboring under the idea that
it&rsquo;s real and true.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and the Spirit of God&rsquo;s Son
shines in the Mind of the Father &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; why? Why does it shine in the Mind of the Father? It shines in
the Mind of the Father because suddenly you are no longer claiming to be
an orphan. You&rsquo;re no longer claiming a right to be an authority in
your own right. You&rsquo;re no longer wanting to make up all the
definitions yourself and to have disowned your Source.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and the Spirit of God&rsquo;s Son
shines in the Mind of the Father and becomes One with It.
</div>

You might say that the illumination is a two-way street. You&rsquo;re
blessed, but the Father is blessed because you have decided to glorify
God again.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Very gently does God shine upon Himself, loving
the extension of Himself which is His Son.
</div>

You.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The world has no purpose &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; on its own.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The world has no purpose as it blends into the
Purpose of God.
</div>

All the meanings that you&rsquo;ve applied to the world as this
authoritative little orphan fades, dissolves because you&rsquo;re no
longer energizing them. And the world which was Creation all along
becomes illuminated for what it is. And the world you made up that has
no purpose, blends into the Purpose of God. That which you were applying
false purpose to blends back into the Purpose of God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For the real world has slipped quietly into
Heaven, where everything eternal in it has always been.
</div>

Redemption is the uncovering of that which has always been. The
redemption of your body will be the uncovering of what has always
perfectly been. It&rsquo;s not a manipulation of &ldquo;bad
matter&rdquo; into &ldquo;good matter.&rdquo; It&rsquo;s not the
manipulation of &ldquo;matter&rdquo; into Spirit. Redemption is the
remembering and the unobstructed conscious experience of what has always
been.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There the Redeemer and the redeemed join in
perfect love of God and of each other.
</div>

Very important:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and of each other.
</div>

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As you perceive more and more common elements in
ALL situations, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and we could say, all Brothers. All people, places, and things.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the transfer of your training under the
Holy Spirit&rsquo;s guidance increases and becomes generalized.
Gradually you learn to apply it to everyone and everything, for its
applicability IS universal. When this has been accomplished, perception
and knowledge have become so similar that they share the unification of
the laws of God.
</div>

It is very important for you to not continue to make differences between
the things you see.

&ldquo;This is me, and that is not me. That is him, and that is not him.
This is real, and this is unreal. This is matter, and this is Spirit.
This is acceptable, and that is unacceptable. This eyeball is
acceptable; that eyeball is not. This eyeball has something wrong with
it; that one does not. This hip is acceptable; that hip is not. This
knee is acceptable; that one is not. That one needs surgery because
something is wrong with it; it is not acceptable.&rdquo;

You must stop making differentiations. And then you must bring all of
the things which you have made differentiations between under the
purview of God. You must bring it back into the acknowledgment that God
is in His Holy Place and all is well, and nothing is outside Him. Not
this knee; not that knee. Not this hip; not that hip. Not this eye; not
that eye. None of them are outside the Omnipotent Authority of God being
All, without conflict, without dissonance of any kind, because God is
Single, God is Singular. Creation is Pure.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The world &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; of itself &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; has no purpose as it blends into the
Purpose of God. For the real world has slipped quietly &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; where? &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; into Heaven, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; into what it was all along.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; where everything eternal in it has
always been. There the Redeemer and the redeemed join in perfect love of
God and of each other.

Heaven is your home, and being in God it must ALSO be in you.
</div>

The point tonight is for all of you to come back into your simplicity,
and to withdraw the temptation to characterize your body or your world
as though it had a personality, capable of providing self-direction to
it that might not be in your best interest. To remember that the use to
which you put your Mind governs what you experience, either distorting
your perception of what perfectly is, or undistorting it by virtue of
your returning to the proper, sane use of your Mind.

And remember, as I said, when you&rsquo;re experiencing an ache or a
pain, ask God, &ldquo;Are You creating this?&rdquo; And please,
don&rsquo;t indulge in this really insane and perverse question,
&ldquo;God, are You creating this for my benefit?&rdquo; If God
isn&rsquo;t creating it, it isn&rsquo;t happening except in your
imagination&mdash;your troubled imagination. The troubled imagination
that all of you have as long as you believe that you&rsquo;re orphans,
that you&rsquo;re on your own, and it&rsquo;s up to you.

Remember that so that you can pinpoint what it is that you need to
abandon and stop doing. And then ask the Holy Spirit, or ask God, to
correct your mind by causing an infilling of the awareness of Truth that
renders your thinking nonsensical enough to you that you willingly lay
it down. As we said last week, you walk with mighty Companions.
Everything &hellip; everything in its true Light as What It Truly Is,
stands with you in support of and confirmation of your being in your
right Mind. Help is available to you, but you must invite it in instead
of continuing to energize your right to have your own thoughts and
believe them.

Now I trust that you will all have a better week this week than you had
this last week. And if you don&rsquo;t, don&rsquo;t believe your doubt.
Ask yourself, &ldquo;What source are you going to, to gather your
information from?&rdquo; And if it isn&rsquo;t the Holy Spirit, if it
isn&rsquo;t me, if it isn&rsquo;t the Father, then stop going to that
source, and get back into your peace.

I know many of you might be saying, &ldquo;Well, why is he stopping
here? We&rsquo;ve just arrived at the point where it says, &lsquo;The
Guide for Miracles.&rsquo; That&rsquo;s just exactly what I need.&rdquo;
What you need is what I&rsquo;ve shared. Without a grasp of what
I&rsquo;ve shared, &ldquo;The Guide for Miracles&rdquo; is not going to
make sense. And I don&rsquo;t want you grasping for a means to make a
miracle happen. I&rsquo;m never ever going to tell you how to make a
miracle happen, but I am always going to tell you what you need to do to
let a miracle in.

Okay.

I love you all. I love you all, every one of you. And I look forward to
being with you next week.

[^1]: T11.6 The Vision of Christ

