---
title: Mar 11, 2006
ref: T11.7 The Guide for Miracles
alink: "/acim/text/11/chap1107/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who is joining us on the
Internet.

We&rsquo;ll go right into the book.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*The Guide for Miracles*[^1]

Miracles demonstrate that learning has occurred under the right
guidance, for learning is invisible, and what has been learned can be
recognized only by its RESULTS.
</div>

Miracles are sudden shifts of perception. They occur when a willingness
to learn has been present, and the teacher you have sought for the
learning, has been one who can teach you truly. The ego as a teacher
cannot teach you truly, but the Holy Spirit can. And those are the only
two teachers you have available to you.

You can tell whether you have learned or not, when? When you have
results. When you have the evidence of learning. In other words, when
you have healing. When correction of an illusion has occurred. When
correction of a misperception has occurred. When correction of anything
false has occurred.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Its generalization is demonstrated as you use it in more and more
situations.
</div>

Use what? Well, I&rsquo;m going to say &ldquo;miracle-mindedness,&rdquo;
or, we could call it &ldquo;miracle-readiness.&rdquo;

And what is that? It&rsquo;s when you abandon your confidences about the
fact that a miracle can&rsquo;t occur. Miracle-readiness is the frame of
mind you&rsquo;re in when you&rsquo;re willing to abandon the
definitions you&rsquo;ve given to something so that you might look at it
with fresh or, as I&rsquo;ve called it, &ldquo;innocent eyes,&rdquo; and
see it anew; letting it, whatever it is, communicate to you its meaning;
to shine forth to you its act of glorifying God. Miracle-readiness is
something that needs to be brought into play more and more of the time.

And I&rsquo;ve described miracle-readiness as your active curiosity to
see the more of God that is there wherever you&rsquo;re looking than
what you&rsquo;re presently seeing. And of course, in many instances,
you are looking, and what you&rsquo;re seeing is something that you
can&rsquo;t identify as God at all, because you&rsquo;re absolutely
confident that it isn&rsquo;t God. That it&rsquo;s your enemy; not your
ally. And that there&rsquo;s nothing that can be done about it.

I said last week that in every single moment of your day&mdash;no matter
what is in your face&mdash;what is in your face is the Presence of God
inviting you to see It for what It really is. Every single thing you
encounter is a companion whose intent it is for you to see it as it
truly is; whose intent it is to have you see it glorifying God,
exhibiting God, manifesting God, instead of what you imagine it is. And
so you are constantly confronted with this ever-present help, this
ever-present encouragement to recognize God.

Now what if you were recognizing God all day long? What kind of meaning
would it have for you? How would it make life different for you? Well,
right off the bat, you would find that there was no call for fear. And
so you would be experiencing being, fearlessly&mdash;free of all fear.
That&rsquo;s the potential in every single moment, because that&rsquo;s
the invitation from absolutely everything that confronts you. And the
only reason you don&rsquo;t see it is because you are convinced, you
have convinced yourself that God is not there; that something else is.
That is the only reason. I cannot emphasize it enough. That is the only
reason. And if that&rsquo;s the only reason, the answer is equally
simple. The answer isn&rsquo;t complicated.

And miracle-readiness is what lets in the discovery of God right there
in your world, changing your apparent need to be in a constant state of
self-defense, replacing it with peace and the opportunity for
spontaneous joy, and an ability to deal with your Brothers and Sisters
without a façade and without games, and enjoy the pleasure of just truly
and simply being yourself. And finding that being yourself is valuable
for everyone.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You will recognize that you have learned there is no order of difficulty
in miracles when you have applied them to ALL situations.
</div>

You see, as long as you think some situations are more difficult than
others, then you will not make the gift of miracle-readiness in the more
difficult situations. You will justify not giving that willingness
because, &ldquo;The situation is too difficult,&rdquo; or, &ldquo;That
fellow&rsquo;s ego is so full of itself that it couldn&rsquo;t possibly
yield to any gift I might make of an acknowledgment of what is true, or
a willingness to see what is true right there. And so there is no use.
And I will go and find an easier situation to make the gift of
miracle-readiness.&rdquo; And so you make distinctions between this and
that.

And you suffer from the distinctions, not from what is confronting you.
You suffer from the distinction because there are places where you
withhold your willingness to see God, and thus deprive yourself of the
opportunity to see God. And so you suffer from this self-imposed
blindness to the Presence of God. It&rsquo;s that simple.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There IS no situation to which miracles do not apply, and by applying
them to all situations you will gain the real world.
</div>

If you&rsquo;re looking with a conflicted mind, one where you have made
divisions in your definitions of everything into good and bad, right and
wrong, real and unreal, worthy and unworthy, and on and on and
on&mdash;you, by virtue of your conflictedness, will see conflict; not
because it&rsquo;s there, but because that is what you&rsquo;re wishing
to see, that is what you&rsquo;re insisting on seeing. And you insist on
it by an unwillingness to be miracle-minded. You do it by simply
withholding your willingness to see God there.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There IS no situation to which miracles do not apply, and by applying
them to all situations you will gain the real world.
</div>

That means the daffodil that&rsquo;s blooming this morning, or the slugs
that will come shortly, or the traffic on the freeway. Stop making the
distinctions, and where you had been making the distinctions, difference
will disappear, and God will appear. What a thing divinely is and what
its divine intent is will begin to register with you, because you have
neglected to make distinctions. And so the real world will begin to
become illuminated to you. That&rsquo;s the way it works.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you will gain the real world. For in this holy perception you
will be made whole, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; why? Because you&rsquo;re not keeping yourself fragmented with your
capacity to see differences; a supposed capacity you have to see
differences where they do not actually exist.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For in this holy perception you will be made whole, and the Atonement
will radiate from YOUR acceptance of it for YOURSELF to everyone &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and I&rsquo;m going to add: Everything.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; [and everything] the Holy Spirit sends you for your blessing.
</div>

What blessing? Your miracle-readiness. Your willingness to see God where
your conditioned thinking said God was absent. A willingness to see God
where you had neglected to see God before.

Again, because it&rsquo;s so important &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; in this holy perception you will be made whole, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you will see through the lens of singularity &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and the Atonement will radiate from YOUR acceptance of it for
YOURSELF to everyone &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and I&rsquo;m adding: And everything &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the Holy Spirit sends you for your blessing. In every Child of God
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and every Creation of God, I&rsquo;m adding.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; His blessing lies, and in YOUR blessing of the Children of God is
His blessing to YOU.
</div>

Remember? What you give, you get to keep. What you are willing to pass
on to your Brother, or Sister, or daffodil, or slug, as it moves through
you by virtue of your willingness to make the gift, it blesses you and
becomes yours as well. You see?

&ldquo;Well, it would be must easier if I could get it for myself first.
You know, I wouldn&rsquo;t have to deal with the bitch over there, or
the bastard over there, or the stinginess over here. I wouldn&rsquo;t
have to deal with that. Let me get it first so that I&rsquo;m very clear
and not bothered by those things, and then it will be very easy for me
to make the gift of it to my Brother.&rdquo; No.

You see, you can&rsquo;t insist on maintaining the distinctions between
a good place to do it and a bad place to do it, or the right place to do
it or the wrong place to do it, or the best condition to do it or the
worst condition to do it. Because as long as you do that, you withhold
the gift. And when you withhold the gift, it doesn&rsquo;t infill you
and by virtue of its extension become yours.

So you&rsquo;re going to have to work with the situations that confront
you.  And you know what? You can say, &ldquo;Well, the Holy Spirit must
have picked this situation for me because there was so much for me to
learn.&rdquo; No. It just happens that God happens to be presenting
Himself right there in front of you, and you&rsquo;re entertaining a
rather lousy perception of Him that is absolutely unnecessary for you to
employ. And all that&rsquo;s called for is for you to abandon its
employment.

Stop having the misperception&mdash;the biased, unkind perception of the
situation&mdash;and say, or become curious enough to say, &ldquo;I would
love to see the more of God that is here than I&rsquo;m presently
seeing. I would love to see it. I am willing to stop doing whatever is
blocking me from seeing it. And I ask for the Father&rsquo;s Help to let
it go.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Everyone &hellip;
</div>

Everyone.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; in the world must play his part in the redemption of the world,
</div>

&hellip; why? Because the world is such a god-awful place, and it needs
your help? No. Because you&rsquo;re the one who&rsquo;s looking at the
Kingdom of Heaven and claiming that it&rsquo;s something else and
believing yourself. You must play your part in the redemption of the
world by withdrawing the overlay of your definitions upon it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Everyone in the world must play his part in the redemption of the world,
to recognize that the world HAS BEEN redeemed.
</div>

Which really means, to recognize that the world never became what you
imagined it became. It&rsquo;s always been the Kingdom of Heaven.

So be careful about the word &ldquo;redemption&rdquo; and be careful
about how you conceptualize the part you play in redeeming the world,
because you will never be transforming an unredeemed, an actual
unredeemed world into a redeemed world. You will not be coercing an
illusion or an unreality into a clear manifestation of Reality, because
there simply is no such world for you to apply your power to, to bless
it and change it from its awfulness.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the world HAS BEEN redeemed.
</div>

It&rsquo;s already redeemed because from the beginning, it was the Kingdom of
Heaven and nothing else.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You cannot see the invisible.
</div>

And we&rsquo;re not talking here about the world, the real world. We&rsquo;re
talking about the sudden shift of perception. That is what a miracle is.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You cannot see the invisible.
</div>

You cannot see the sudden shift of perception in you when it occurs.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet if you see its effects you KNOW it must be there. By perceiving what
it DOES, you recognize its being.
</div>

When correction of an illusion occurs, when a disease disappears, when
an injury heals very rapidly or instantaneously, and you stand in awe of
it because you know of nothing you did to make it happen, you will in
retrospect discover that there was something you hadn&rsquo;t been doing
that you had been doing before. You will realize that for some reason
you were willing to look with innocent eyes; for some reason you were
willing to be miracle-ready; for some reason you were willing to let
something beyond your confidences about the way things work, happen. And
so you realize that you did play a part in it. But it wasn&rsquo;t a
part of authority and it wasn&rsquo;t a part of personal power. You will
realize that there was a point at which you, for whatever unknown
reason, became humble enough to stand in receipt of a miracle. You were
unguarded enough to let in something other than your awful perception
that you were so sure of.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
By perceiving what it DOES, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; miracle-readiness. Miracle-mindedness. The miracle itself.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you recognize its being. And by WHAT it does, you learn what it
IS.
</div>

What does that mean? Well, it means you realize that it isn&rsquo;t the
result of negative thinking. It isn&rsquo;t the result of your personal
confidence.  And it isn&rsquo;t the result of any personal power you
have. But you recognize, you learn that it is what presences itself when
you stand down from the podium of authority, when you stand down from
self-righteousness.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You cannot SEE your abilities, but you gain confidence in their
existence as they enable you to &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what? &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; ACT.
</div>

Not just walk around in dreamy bliss, but to act. To behave in perfect
concordance with the Singularity of Being, the fundamental nature of
your Mind.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You cannot SEE your abilities, but you gain confidence in their
existence as they enable you to ACT. And the RESULTS of your actions you
CAN see.
</div>

Well, after a miracle has happened, you can look back and you can say,
&ldquo;Wow! For whatever reason, I didn&rsquo;t behave in this
circumstance the way I usually behaved in the past. I didn&rsquo;t
respond with fear like I normally would have in the past. I wasn&rsquo;t
overcome with a sense of aggressive power confronting me where I would
have in the past. And as a result, the ultra-simple answer was clear to
me, and that&rsquo;s what I acted upon. I didn&rsquo;t even figure it
out. I can&rsquo;t even credit myself with superior reasoning power that
brought me to this awareness. Oh! Do you suppose there must be a
God?&rdquo;

There is learning. And with that realization, you&rsquo;re able to go into the
next situation or circumstance, or the rest of your day or the rest of
your week, from an entirely new vantage point, so that the learning from
that situation becomes part of the context of your being present with
your life. And thus your miracle-readiness begins to be applied to
everything much more easily.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit is invisible, but you can see the RESULTS of His
Presence, and through them &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the results &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you will learn that He is there.
</div>

Well, come on. Who is this &ldquo;He&rdquo; that is there? That which is nothing
more than your right Mind.

And so the experience of the Presence of the Holy Spirit begins to
register with you as the Presence of your right Mind&mdash;which once again
significantly defragments your concept of yourself, bringing your mind
into a greater singularity; less conflict. And again, this will begin to
color with new colors, with bright colors, joyful colors, peaceful
colors, all the experiences that follow&mdash;which constitute again increased
miracle-readiness, increased undefendedness against the sudden influx of
a sudden shift of perception.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What He &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your right Mind, the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; enables you to do is clearly NOT of this world, for miracles
violate every law of reality as this world judges it. Every law of time
and space, of magnitude and mass, of prediction and control is
transcended, &hellip;
</div>

How else could there be an instantaneous healing, let&rsquo;s say, of a broken
bone? And don&rsquo;t think that such a thing hasn&rsquo;t already happened multiple
times, many times. What do you think has happened when you&rsquo;ve been in a
traffic situation that there was no way through, and you came through
and there was no impact of any kind? What do you think it is that
happens when something you have been conditioned to experience great
fear about occurred, and you didn&rsquo;t experience the fear and there was no
suffering from it?

Well, every law of time and space, of magnitude and mass, of prediction
and control has been transcended in the littlest miracle. They are
transcended because they aren&rsquo;t what governs. The miracle is what
governs them.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Every law of time and space, of magnitude and mass, of prediction and
control is transcended, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; we&rsquo;ll get to the end of the sentence.

This is what you have to look forward to. This is what you should be
standing in expectation of in every moment you&rsquo;re experiencing.

No, but you&rsquo;re just so damn sure that it takes a certain amount of time
to get to work, and you&rsquo;re going to be late, and in all likelihood all
of the lights will be red that you will run into, delaying you even
further, and blah, blah, blah, blah, on and on you go. And so you&rsquo;re
looking at the Kingdom of Heaven with the potential of experiencing it
with the Holy Spirit in which every law of time and space, of magnitude
and mass, of prediction and control can be transcended, and you&rsquo;re stuck
with what you are confident is true.

Well, stop being so confident, so that your trip to work in the morning
can be miraculous, and so that your perspective and perception of life
might be transformed significantly. Because if that isn&rsquo;t what all of
this is about, then go home and throw this book in the fireplace and
make do with what you have. And stop complaining about what you have;
accept it, and find happiness to the best of your ability.

But if you&rsquo;re going to be reading these things and if you&rsquo;re going to be
claiming to be actually interested in waking up, then start expecting
the laws of time and space, of magnitude and mass, of prediction and
control to be transcended. Start expecting to see matter behave like
Spirit, because you&rsquo;re willing to actually consider the possibility that
it never was matter, that it always has been Spirit, and that it is
always at, I&rsquo;m going to say, the mercy of the beneficent Movement of God
called Creation.

When you wake up tomorrow morning, you wake up to the opportunity to see
the Kingdom of Heaven, because it&rsquo;s the Kingdom of Heaven you&rsquo;re waking
up in. You know, let this sink in. Let this register with you, so that a
truly genuine curiosity begins to come into play. Why? Because a truly
genuine curiosity constitutes miracle-readiness and miracle-mindedness,
and releases you from every confidence you have employed that this or
that situation or circumstance is not amenable to a miracle, including
the cancer you seem to be experiencing, including the headache you seem
to be experiencing, including the awful relationship that you have with
your Brother or Sister because of uncontrollable jealousy.

Let miracle-readiness, let miracle-mindedness be available to every
single experience that presents itself to you during the day, else all
you will experience will be what you expect to happen, and you will
remain bound by your expectation until you abandon it. Again, it&rsquo;s that
simple. That is the crux of the matter.

Now we&rsquo;ll finish the sentence.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Every law of time and space, of magnitude and mass, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; these are all the laws of physics.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; of prediction and control is transcended, for what the Holy Spirit
enables you to do is clearly beyond ALL of them. Perceiving His results,
you will understand WHERE He must be, and finally KNOW what He is.
</div>

That&rsquo;s the wonder of it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Perceiving His results, you will understand WHERE He must be, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; well, where must He be? Right there in you, because it&rsquo;s your
right Mind. And you will &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; finally KNOW what He is.
</div>

You in your right Mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Perceiving His results, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what would that mean? Perceiving or experiencing the miracle that
you realize you played a part in even though you were not behaving as an
orphan, even though you were not behaving with imagined authority, even
though you were behaving without utilizing reason and logic impeccably.
That&rsquo;s how you come back into Singularity. That&rsquo;s how you come back into
clarity. That&rsquo;s how you come back into Sanity.

Now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You cannot see the Holy Spirit, but you can see His manifestations. And
unless you do, you will not realize He is there.
</div>

Well, what&rsquo;s a manifestation of a Holy Spirit? It&rsquo;s a blessing that you
are blessed with that you weren&rsquo;t personally responsible for, and
apparently no other ego was responsible for it either. One of those
blessings that make you think, &ldquo;Hmm. There must be a God. There must be
something in charge here beside me. And there must be something in
charge here beside some other ego.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You cannot see the Holy Spirit, but you can see His manifestations. And
unless you do, you will not realize He is there. Miracles are His
witnesses, and speak for His Presence.
</div>

Miracles are the witnesses of your right Mind, and speak for the
Presence, the capital &ldquo;P&rdquo; Presence of your right Mind. And
you should be having more and more of these experiences every day and
every week.

&ldquo;Oh, yeah. Should. Oh, yeah, you *should* be having. And
what&rsquo;s wrong with you for not having them?&rdquo;

Bullshit! You should be having it because it&rsquo;s your Birthright to
be having it. It doesn&rsquo;t matter why you aren&rsquo;t having it. It
matters that it&rsquo;s your Birthright to be having it. It matters that
it&rsquo;s the Gift of God to you, that no one and no thing can actually
take away. And so it&rsquo;s actually present with you. It&rsquo;s
actually functional in you. And you&rsquo;ve just been so busy with your
little imaginations that it has been escaping your attention. You should
be experiencing them more and more frequently, because every situation
is primed for the event of a miracle registering with you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What you cannot see becomes real to you only through the witnesses who
speak for it.
</div>

An undeserved blessing speaks for something. A real blessing is one that
you feel truly blessed by; a little bit in awe of. It&rsquo;s an out of
the ordinary experience that doesn&rsquo;t escape your attention, and
automatically points you in the direction of asking, &ldquo;Where did
that come from?&rdquo;&mdash;which automatically points you in the
direction of some Ultimate Power or Presence, because the experience of
it is so out of the ordinary. And all of you have these experiences,
even if they&rsquo;re very small.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What you cannot see becomes real to you only through the witnesses who
speak for it. For you can be AWARE of what you cannot see, and it can
become compellingly real to you as its presence becomes manifest THROUGH
you.
</div>

How many of you have been with a friend or an acquaintance who is in the
middle of a problem, and you had no idea what the answer was and you
were willing just to be present with that person without
judgment&mdash;vulnerable, genuine and simply there with them, for
them&mdash;and things came out of your mouth that afterwards you say,
&ldquo;Where did that come from?&rdquo; And what comes out of your mouth
causes the friend or the acquaintance afterwards to say, &ldquo;I
don&rsquo;t know what came over you, but everything you said was
absolutely perfect for me. And I&rsquo;m free of the distress that I was
experiencing. Thank you.&rdquo;

And you sit there and you say, &ldquo;Thank you for what? Ask me to do
it again and I couldn&rsquo;t possibly do it because I don&rsquo;t know
what I did.&rdquo; Well, that&rsquo;s the orphan talking. That&rsquo;s
the one who thinks he has no connection with a Source. No. From that
standpoint, you don&rsquo;t know what happened.

And you know what? From the standpoint of the Holy Spirit which is
nothing more than your right Mind, you don&rsquo;t know what happened
either, in this sense: what happened wasn&rsquo;t reasoned out; what
happened wasn&rsquo;t calculated; what happened involved no
control&mdash;all of the things which you as an orphan value because
they are what cause you to seem to have value and valid presence.

But the experience that occurred that you couldn&rsquo;t duplicate if
you wanted to and which blessed your Brother, or your acquaintance, is
one that you can count on happening again and again and again, when you
get out of the way, as you discover you had gotten out of the way at the
time. And so there is a confidence that begins to accompany you. A
confidence that there is a God; that there is something greater than
this little, tiny, orphan mentality that you thought you were, which
knows how to be perfectly in any given situation.

A way of being that blesses&mdash;blesses the one you&rsquo;re with and
blesses you.  And how does it bless you most? It blesses you most by
uncovering the fact that the apparent need to be personally competent
begins to dissolve. What a relief.

What a relief to discover that it never was a part of the true
experience of Being for you in your own right to be competent, and to
have to be competent in order to be respectable and valid. If you stop
and think about it, you&rsquo;ll discover just how much fear you
experience as a result of this apparently absolute need for you to be
competent in your own right, all by yourself&mdash;meaning without any
underlying justification for it; a competence that comes from you
lifting yourself up by your bootstraps. You see, [laughing] it&rsquo;s a
wonderful picture. The only thing that&rsquo;s going to give you a
feeling of security and confidence is if you&rsquo;re standing on solid
ground. But no, the orphan in you says, &ldquo;I&rsquo;ve got to lift
myself up by my own bootstraps.&rdquo; You know, it&rsquo;s saying,
&ldquo;I have to become ungrounded. I&rsquo;ve got to lift myself
up.&rdquo; Off of what? The ground. Up, up, and away from the immovable,
infinite Presence of you that is what God is being right there where you
are, because you&rsquo;re not an orphan.

Here we come to talk about actions again; the capacity to act.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Do &hellip;
</div>

Do.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Do the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s work, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; not the orphan&rsquo;s work. Stop doing the orphan&rsquo;s work. Stop playing
the orphan role. And stop trying to get charge of the orphanage.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Do the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s work, for you SHARE in His function.
</div>

That sentence was written to orphans who might be able to hear that
there is no orphanage and there&rsquo;s no orphanhood.

You don&rsquo;t really share in the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s function. The Holy Spirit is
nothing more than your right Mind. So the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s function is your
real function. But, you know, we don&rsquo;t have to blast you with it right
off the bat, and so gently it is said:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you SHARE in His function.
</div>

Well, that&rsquo;s a pabulum; meat and potatoes is. His function is your
function. And it&rsquo;s not shared at all. And it&rsquo;s time for you to own up to
it. Claim it and be that way.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As your function in Heaven &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning in Reality &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is creation, so your function on earth is healing.
</div>

As your function in Heaven is creation, so your function in the
orphanage is healing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God shares His function with you in Heaven, and the Holy Spirit shares
His with you on earth.
</div>

Until you stop dallying with the ego, the Holy Spirit which is nothing
more than your right Mind, is held in trust for you. And it seems to be
something different from the orphan you think you are. It isn&rsquo;t, but it
seems to be.

And as long as you think you&rsquo;re an orphan, I have to talk to you in the
language that you&rsquo;re familiar with. And of course, when I&rsquo;m talking to
you in that language, I&rsquo;m undoing the language and I&rsquo;m undoing the
commitment you have to the language, and I&rsquo;m challenging the confidences
you have in the way you&rsquo;re looking at things. But until you let the Holy
Spirit, which is your right Mind, in and don&rsquo;t hold yourself separate
from it, and let the unification or singularity occur, then you&rsquo;re going
to have to behave as better orphans. You are going to have to behave as
though you are orphans graduating from orphanhood; coming back into your
right Mind.

And so this process, as long as you spread it out on a timeline, will
involve your engaging in healing. What? Correction. Correction of
illusion. The willing abandonment on your part of misunderstandings that
you&rsquo;ve thought were real and true. The disciplined willingness to give
your attention to the Truth instead of the illusion. Period.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; your function in Heaven is creation, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; well, even if you think you&rsquo;re in an orphanage,
you&rsquo;re still in the Kingdom of Heaven. And you&rsquo;re still the
Christ, and so your function is still creation. Until you let go of the
confidence you have that you&rsquo;re an orphan, that divine behavior,
that &ldquo;function of creation&rdquo; is going to consistently and
increasingly be manifest as evidences of healing in the world as
you&rsquo;re perceiving it, because that&rsquo;s the way the scales
begin to fall from your eyes; the scales which color and distort your
perception of the Kingdom of Heaven that you&rsquo;re looking at all the
time.

And so this is the sense of the sentence that says:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As your function in Heaven is creation, so your function on earth is
healing.
</div>

It isn&rsquo;t that you&rsquo;re on the earth, and you have a function
while you&rsquo;re on the earth. It&rsquo;s that as long as you&rsquo;re
defining the Kingdom of Heaven as &ldquo;the world and
universe&rdquo;&mdash;a physical entity&mdash;you are going to be
constantly engaged in having your perceptions healed. And therefore,
healing is going to be the name of the game for you and your Brothers,
because whatever healing you allow within yourself is going to be
reflected in the way you treat your Brothers&mdash;which is going to
inspire your Brothers and Sisters to let that in themselves because
they&rsquo;re going to have a new model. They&rsquo;re going to have new
evidences of something invisible to them: their divinity.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God shares His function with you in Heaven, and the Holy Spirit shares
His with you on earth.
</div>

Now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As long as you believe you have two functions, so long will you need
correction.
</div>

You hear that word &ldquo;correction&rdquo;? We hear that word
&ldquo;correction&rdquo; over and over and over again. Correction means
the undoing of something false. It means change.

Spiritual awakening and bliss can be conceived of as something which you
can experience without change actually occurring. And supposedly you can
be in your bliss while your body is ravaged by cancer and you
won&rsquo;t be bothered a bit. Bullshit! Crap! And all of the other
words that could be used, which I won&rsquo;t make Paul use. But you can
use those words and he can use it in his mind. But call it for what it
is. Something that doesn&rsquo;t deserve your recognition or honor.

&ldquo;Correction&rdquo;&mdash;it is the most wonderful word in this
book. Why talk about correction if correction is impossible? Why talk
about correction if correction isn&rsquo;t inevitable? Why talk about
correction if it isn&rsquo;t the most important thing? To not affect the
status quo and to be happy in the misery of the status quo, is absolute
insanity. Have greater expectations than that. I encourage you to even
dare to be demanding of the evidence of correction, because correction
is what you want; not stupid bliss.

You want those teeth that are falling out of your mouth to be whole
again, not subject to decay. You want that heart that&rsquo;s weak or
irregular to embody singularity; perfect harmony of its function of
identifying God and God&rsquo;s Purpose. And you want the evidence of
it. And so you&rsquo;re going to dare to be miracle-minded enough to let
it happen instead of arguing against it with your confidence that here
is a place where God does not reign supreme&mdash;meaning your heart, or
your mouth, or any other part of your body.

Now, it sounds as though I&rsquo;m talking about being assertive. But
I&rsquo;m not talking about engaging will. I&rsquo;m talking about
engaging in an impassioned willingness; not an impassioned willfulness.

As long as you believe you have two functions, so long will you need
correction.

Well, what are the two functions? There&rsquo;s only two functions you
could have. One is to glorify God by listening for the Holy Spirit. Or,
to glorify orphanhood by glorifying the private mind that you think you
have and the private state of being that is truly yours to be. The
latter is a constant state of fear, and the former is a constant state
of Love. Which function is yours? Fear or Love.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As long as you believe you have two functions, so long will you need
correction. For this belief &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; it&rsquo;s just a belief. Remember? A belief is something you
made up.  It&rsquo;s a string of words or ideas that you&rsquo;ve hung
together, and then at the end of it you put an exclamation point. And it
constituted a declaration of independence; a declaration of personal
private authority of your own. A belief is just an imagination.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; this belief is &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; however &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the DESTRUCTION of peace, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your peace &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; a goal in direct opposition to the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s purpose.
</div>

The purpose of that which is nothing more than your right Mind. That
means that for you, it&rsquo;s a state of inner conflict in which there
can be no peace and no real capacity to love, because what you&rsquo;re
committed to is that which is the absence of the capacity to join with
and be present with and involved with someone else.

In this state of mind, in any state of mind:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You see what you EXPECT, and you expect what you INVITE.
</div>

Listen to that again.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You see what you EXPECT, and you expect what you INVITE.
</div>

It doesn&rsquo;t matter whether you&rsquo;re expecting and inviting
disaster. It doesn&rsquo;t matter whether you&rsquo;re expecting and
inviting death or disease.  You will see what you expect, and you expect
what you invite. It also doesn&rsquo;t matter if what you are expecting
and inviting is a miracle. The results of the two are different, but you
must understand that whatever you&rsquo;re expecting and inviting,
you&rsquo;re going to get. No. Whatever you&rsquo;re expecting and
inviting, you have. Always.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You see what you EXPECT, and you expect what you INVITE.
</div>

You get up in the morning and you give yourself a quick physical to see
how you are, expecting to find out. Right? Well, your expectation is the
invitation to what you&rsquo;re looking for.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your perception is the result of your invitation, coming to you as you
sent for it. Whose manifestations would you see? Of whose presence would
you be convinced? For you will believe in what you MANIFEST, and as you
look out so will you see in. Two ways of looking at the world are in
your mind, and your perception will reflect the guidance you chose.

Two ways of looking at the world are in your mind, and your
perception will reflect the guidance you chose.
</div>

What did you choose to look at the world with? What are you choosing to
look at your body with? Are you choosing to look at it with the Holy
Spirit, inviting God&rsquo;s Perspective of what He&rsquo;s being right
there where you are? Or are you asking the orphan&rsquo;s
mentality&mdash;which sees itself as Sourceless and therefore
incompetent and invalid&mdash;which is left with the eternal task of
trying to make something out of the nothing that it is?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; your perception will reflect the guidance you chose.
</div>

Your perception does reflect the guidance you choose.

Now what I want all of you to know is that this skill of expecting and
inviting is one that is well-developed in you. It&rsquo;s absolutely
perfectly developed in you. You are exercising it with perfect skill.
So, what does this mean? It means you aren&rsquo;t lost and you
aren&rsquo;t convicted in and by whatever circumstance you&rsquo;re in.
It means that the circumstance you&rsquo;re in is one you expected and
invited. And because the skill of expecting and inviting is one
perfectly honed in you and perfectly developed in you, you can expect
and invite something else with absolute assurance that you will have
what you expect and invite.

So there&rsquo;s no need for any sense of guilt, because you&rsquo;ve
never gotten beyond the simple practicality of the fact that what you
expect, you invite, and what you invite, you get. And if you want sour
lemons, you can have sour lemons. But if you want sweet lemonade, you
can have sweet lemonade&mdash;just expect and invite sweet lemonade.
Just start doing something new. And ask the Holy Spirit what the
something new might be.  And ask the Holy Spirit to stand with you in
your willingness to be miracle-ready, miracle-minded.

You&rsquo;ve already been practicing the answer for a very long time
perfectly. You&rsquo;ve just been practicing it in the negative. Now
just flip it over and start doing something new with your mind every
day.

And where you might have found, especially after I brought it up last
week, that you give a character to your body and you say,
&ldquo;It&rsquo;s giving up on me,&rdquo; or &ldquo;It&rsquo;s an angry
cut,&rdquo; you probably have found that you characterize nature the
same way. Why, just the other day the forecaster said, &ldquo;Winter is
having a hard time giving up.&rdquo; Absolutely asinine. You see,
you&rsquo;ve simply got to be alert and stop using your mind the way
you&rsquo;ve been using it and start using it a new way.

&ldquo;My body is the visibility and tangibility of my Individuality.
And my Individuality is God presencing Himself right where I am.
Therefore, whatever God is being must be that which my body is intent
upon rendering visible and tangible, in glory, in glorification of what
God is being and intending right where I am.&rdquo;

You see? Give a new word, but listen to the Holy Spirit for what the
words will be, because they will be a declaration of the Truth about
your body, which you will then expect to have the experience of. And the
expectation will constitute the invitation. And the invitation will
necessitate your having what&rsquo;s been invited.

Now you&rsquo;ve already been doing this&mdash;these steps&mdash;but
you&rsquo;ve been doing them negatively. You&rsquo;ve been doing them
with confidence that your body is a temporary host for your
soul&mdash;which isn&rsquo;t going to last forever, and which is
inevitably going to begin to break down and collapse, and finally
abandon you and stop being a host for your soul. Now that&rsquo;s just
another expectation and invitation which, if you have that expectation
and make that invitation, you will surely have as an
experience&mdash;until you die and discover that, &ldquo;Oh! Oh!
I&rsquo;m all still here! I thought something was happening and it
wasn&rsquo;t.&rdquo; And you have the opportunity &hellip; . [laughing]
you have the opportunity to abandon the way the orphan mentality chose
to look at the Christ that you were and the Kingdom of Heaven that
everything was.

So, we&rsquo;re talking about making that shift of choice now.
You&rsquo;re bound to succeed because you&rsquo;re already succeeding.
You&rsquo;re already succeeding by creating sour lemon juice. You can do
it if you want. But want something else. Okay? And just do it without
engaging in guilt and self-criticism and all of the rest of the
&ldquo;orphan mentality&rdquo; crap that you use to reinforce the lie
about you; an orphanhood that couldn&rsquo;t possibly be the truth about
you.

I love you, every one of you.

And I hope you are feeling invigorated in your willingness to be
miracle-ready, miracle-minded. Willing &hellip; willing to have what
your limited perceptions don&rsquo;t allow for. *Willing to have what
your limited perceptions don&rsquo;t allow for.*

I look forward to being with you next week.

[^1]: T11.7 The Guide for Miracles

