---
title: Mar 19, 2006
ref: T11.7 The Guide for Miracles
alink: "/acim/text/11/chap1107/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who is joining us on the
Internet.

We’ll go right into the book.[^1]

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I am the manifestation of the Holy Spirit, and when you see me it will
be because you have invited Him.

I am the manifestation of the Holy Spirit, &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; that doesn’t mean that I’m a product of the Holy Spirit; a tool
that is being used for your benefit.

We can turn it around the other way: When you see me, it will be
because you have invited in the Holy Spirit.

If you haven’t happened to ask to be in touch with the Holy Spirit but
you have reached out to me—in other words, when you have decided to
break your isolation and draw upon a Source beyond your best thinking,
best reasoning, best judgments—and I respond, it means that you have
also connected with the Holy Spirit; that which is nothing more than
your right Mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I am the manifestation of the Holy Spirit, and when you see me it will
be because you have invited Him. For He WILL send you His witnesses if
you will but look upon them.
</div>

If you seek the Holy Spirit, you get me. It is my task, it is my
function to guide you Home when you have decided to abandon the
orphanage.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Remember always that you see what you seek, for what you seek you WILL
find.
</div>

And I will add: And you do find &ndash; it's the way it works.

As we discussed last week:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego finds what IT seeks, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; or, for clarity, the orphan mentality finds what it seeks.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and ONLY that. It does not find love, for that is NOT what it is
seeking.
</div>

“Whoa!” you say. “Even if I am ignorant, I still do seek love. I look
for love everywhere.”

But the simple fact is that the orphan mentality is an unjoined,
independent, unconnected mentality or thing—imagination actually. It
doesn’t seek for joining because its premise, as we’ve been discussing
all along, is that its task is to make something out of itself on its
own. Its success can only be the result of independently validating
itself and proving itself to be real even though it has no Source.

Now, love, on the other hand, is what? Love is the willingness to let
in. Love is the willingness to be undefended, unguarded. Love is the
willingess to not be independent; to not be a sole authority. It’s a
willingness to be joined.

You know, the one thing that the orphan mentality, or the ego—whichever
you want to call it—is outstanding at is being independent. Everything
it does, it does for the purpose of confirming its independence and that
its independence can be accomplished successfully. It avoids being in a
state of need. In other words, it avoids being dependent.

And as we’ve discussed before, it does it with pride. It is proud not to
have to lean on anyone. It is proud to promote the ethic of independent
success. It takes what the Course says and points out to its “brother”
or its “sister”—and of course, those words are very loosely used by an
orphan, because, of course, an orphan can’t really have an actual
brother or sister—but it’s a friendly choice of words to use to cover up
the solitariness of being an orphan; to make it sound like there is
“family.” It takes pride in pointing out to a brother or a sister that
that brother or sister is creating his or her own circumstances, and
that that brother or sister can make a different decision, but it’s up
to that other brother. And there’s a willingness to stand and observe
the brother, and report back to the brother how well or poorly he or she
might be doing.

But you see, there’s never a joining with that brother or sister,
because the minute joining occurs, independence becomes, or, shall I
say, the lines, the boundaries of independence become fuzzy, and that’s
very threatening. That’s very threatening to the orphan mentality. If
the boundaries of independent selfhood become fuzzy, then the potential
for successfully demonstrating independence and validity becomes fuzzy.
And the purpose of being—from the orphan’s standpoint—becomes unclear,
unfocused, and therefore dangerous to its health.

So the orphan mentality is never looking for love, because it disallows
for joining, for being present with and for a Brother.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego finds what IT seeks, and ONLY that. It does not find love, for
that is NOT what it is seeking. Yet seeking and finding are the same,
and if you seek for two goals you will find them, but you will RECOGNIZE
NEITHER.
</div>

You will not find yourself at one with them. Recognition always means
the experience of finding yourself in what you’re recognizing; finding
unity where difference had been experienced.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet seeking and finding are the same, and if you seek for two goals you
will find them, but you will RECOGNIZE NEITHER. For you will think they
are the same because you WANT them both. The mind always strives for
integration, and if it is split and wants to KEEP the split, it will
believe it has one goal by MAKING it one.
</div>

As an orphan, as a solitary alone authorizer, entity, or whatever you
want to call it, you can want something more than what you’re
experiencing. The dissonance and the discomfort of orphanhood drives the
orphan to want more.

And that orphan can arrive at a point where it realizes that maybe there
is another option besides its own struggle to establish its good for
itself. It hears others talk about a God. It even hears others talk
about A Course in Miracles. And so it says, “Ah, I’ll look into that.
Maybe there is some way I can use that too.” But it’s always used that
in addition to “what I’m already employing;” to use it to make the
attempt to be successfully and validly independent easier. And so it
says, “I’ll look into this.” And it reads the ideas, it considers the
ideas, and then incorporates it into the state of orphanhood.

And now where it had talked in the past about “brothers” and
“sisters”—as I said using the terms loosely because there cannot be any
such thing between orphans—it now talks about “fellow Christs,” but
still sees his fellow Christs—just using new words for “brothers” and
“sisters”—but still sees his fellow Christs as quite independent;
capable of being more successful independent agents because of who they
really are—the Christs.

And so this one can get on an elevator, or be in an audience with many
other people, and be there all alone, along with all of the other
Christs who are there all alone, creating their experiences all alone
but together. And so there is an artificial sense of family which never
bears fruit because no one ever really joins with any other one in the
audience or on the elevator. No one ever really lets the other in.
Sometimes one will appear to let another in, but ultimately it will only
be so that he can pontificate to that brother to help set him straight
in his independent task of validating himself because really he’s the
Christ. Still there is no union. Still there is no communion. Still
there is no joining of any sort.

And so this orphan who seems to have two goals—one, to authorize
everything for himself; and the other, to let in some divine wisdom from
apparently outside himself—this represents a split mind, a split
purpose, a split want. But in the orphan’s mind, in your mind, you can
fool yourself into believing that it is one desire, that it is one want,
and that it represents the integrity, the integratedness of you. Because
of this, you never see that the results you get from your attempting to
authorize things on your own, and the things that you get when you try
to incorporate letting in something bigger than you—you don’t see that
those two things are actually different. And you feel that you are
engaging in this split activity from your integrity, from your
singularity.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The mind always strives for integration, and if it is split and wants to
KEEP the split, it will believe it has one goal by MAKING it one.

We said before that WHAT you project is up to you, but it is NOT up to
you WHETHER to project, for projection is a law of mind. Perception IS
projection, and you look in BEFORE you look out. As you look in you
choose the guide for seeing, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; see, that’s how actually independent the orphan is. No matter
which guide it chooses, it always seeks for a guide.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As you look in you choose the guide for seeing, and THEN you look out
and behold his witnesses.
</div>

You look out and you see the messengers returning to you that you sent
out to gather information to tell you how you are, to tell you how your
world is, so that you might better be prepared to defend yourself
against it, or utilize it to your advantage and to the disadvantage of
everyone else, while at the same time attempting to fool the others into
believing that they haven’t been screwed.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As you look in you choose the guide for seeing, and THEN you look out
and behold his witnesses. This is WHY you find what you seek. What you
want in YOURSELF you will make manifest by projection, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that’s a fact. That’s a law.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What you want in YOURSELF you will make manifest by projection, and you
will accept it FROM the world because you put it there BY wanting it.
</div>

Whether you like to acknowledge it or not, you have rules of conduct by
which or according to which you behave, and according to which you
interpret the world you’re looking at. And whatever the rules are that
you hold yourself to in the process of attempting to turn yourself into
a valid independent authority, you will have that experience. Those
rules will govern what you see, whether what you’re seeing is what is
really there or not.

You do not realize to what degree you are bound by your thoughts, your
reasoning, and your justifications. You may not even think you’re bound.
But I’m here to tell you that you are experiencing unjustifiable
discomfort, unjustifiable suffering, and there’s a way out from it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you think you are projecting what you do NOT want, it is still
because you DO want it.
</div>

Now it’s not necessary to get into heavy psychology here. You say, “I do
not want to suffer,” and yet you drive down the road and somebody
screams past you at high speed, driving dangerously—and you look around
for the cop that going to correct the situation, and there is none
there. “Injustice! Injustice!” flashes in your mind. Red letters:
“Injustice! Injustice!” A little further on the road, you happen to go
five miles over the speed limit and “Whoa!!!”—red lights flashing behind
you. Again, “Injustice! Injustice! How come he can get away with it and
I can’t?”

You see, you don’t want, you don’t really want to be able to get away
with it. You don’t really want to break the law. You don’t really want
to drive in a way that’s unsafe or hazardous for others on the road.
It’s not really in your nature.

But you give yourself misery, because you are choosing to look at your
world through the lenses of conflict, through the lenses of polarity,
opposition, opposition which calls for correction. You’re seeing through
the lens of righteousness, ready to see “Injustice! Injustice!
Injustice!” before the event occurs that seems to validate the cry for
justice because injustice has just occurred. And so you have projected
injustice into your world. You’ve sent out the messenger, and a
messenger has come back to you confirming to you your righteous state,
of which you are quite proud. And so you create for yourself suffering,
when you say, “I don’t want to suffer.”

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you think you are projecting what you do NOT want, it is still
because you DO want it.
</div>

Many times you are suffering from something occurring in your world that
your clear reasoning does not allow you to engage in. I’m not just
talking about breaking the law. Sometimes you suffer because other
people are experiencing more freedom and joy than you are, and it’s
because they don’t hold themselves to the same principles you hold
yourself. Ooh! Reeks of righteousness again.

You see, someone else is doing something that your mindset does not give
you permission to do. And some of the things that your mindset does not
give you permission to do, constitute illegitimate bondage—but you are
bound to stay true to your rules, because staying true to your rules is
the way you get to the point of successfully validating yourself as an
independent authorizer.

And so you create for yourself experiences that you don’t want, but you
really do want them—because if you didn’t experience the bondage, you
would have to invalidate some of your pet rules, you would have to
invalidate some of the mindset that you are using—and you don’t want to
do that. You want to continue to see things the way you see them, even
if they bring you experiences of conflict. And so you have experiences
of conflict because you want them, or, below that is the fact, because
you don’t want to release what brings them to you, because what brings
them to you is part of the infrastructure of the successful independent
authorizer that you are striving to become.

Again&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you think you are projecting what you do NOT want, it is still
because you DO want it. This leads directly to dissociation, for it
represents the acceptance of two goals, each perceived in a DIFFERENT
place, separated from each other BECAUSE you made them different. The
mind then sees a divided world OUTSIDE itself, but not WITHIN.
</div>

You see? You say, “My mind is perfectly aligned. My mind is perfectly
consistent. My mind is singular. And I know I have integrity. And I
value myself. I love myself. But it’s a pretty lousy world out there.”

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The mind then sees a divided world OUTSIDE itself, but not WITHIN. This
gives it&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; an illusion of integrity, and enables it to believe that it is
pursuing one goal.
</div>

Singular, in other words.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As long as you perceive the world as split, YOU are not healed. For to
be healed is to pursue one goal because you have ACCEPTED only one, and
WANT but one.
</div>

Now the important thing to understand is that, as an orphan engaged in
the orphan mentality, you really don’t know the difference between what
is true and what is not. You don’t know the difference between Creation
or Reality as it really is and confronts you, and the world you
have made up by applying different definitions to Creation than what it
really is. You don’t know the difference. And so you can’t make a true
choice between them as long as you continue to rely upon the orphan
mentality that you have nurtured and built and continue to strive to
establish as real in its own right.

It doesn’t mean you’re lost because you can’t tell the difference. It
simply means that you have to be willing to accept the idea that what
I’m telling you is true, and that there is indeed a different way of
experiencing everything than the way you’re experiencing it. And then
drum up enough curiosity, enough genuine curiosity to explore what it
might really be by inviting in a perspective greater than the one you’re
currently employing.

Continuing&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you want ONLY love you will see nothing else.
</div>

Now that is not something that the orphan mentality is capable of. It
sees love as skillfully manipulating your Brother to get him to do what
builds you up, and hopefully doing it in such a skillful way that he
doesn’t realize you’ve taken advantage of him and demeaned him in the
process. That’s what the orphan mentality designates. That is what the
orphan mentality practices, calling it “love.”

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you want ONLY love you will see nothing else.
</div>

But I’m telling you that you won’t want only love until you have arrived
at a point where you’re willing to abandon the artificial boundary that
you have placed around your mind, saying, “This little part of the
infinitude of me, is all there is of me.” You won’t abandon what blocks
you from the experience of love until you’re willing to reach out beyond
your current mental state and invite something greater than you in.

However, when you do that, when that is what you want, that is what you
will have. And the messengers will come back to you confirming what love
is, and confirming your capacity to feel it, and to know that you are
feeling it because you are included in something bigger than just tiny,
little, authoritative you. And when you feel it, you can’t help but
extend it to your Brother and Sister. How? Not in beautiful words, but
in actual involvement.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you want ONLY love you will see nothing else. The contradictory
nature of the witnesses you perceive is merely the reflection of your
conflicting invitations. You have looked upon your minds and accepted
opposition there, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; conflict. Polarization.

And you say, “Conflict’s normal. Polarization&hellip; oh, the universe
runs on polarity.” You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have looked upon your minds and accepted opposition there, having
SOUGHT it there.
</div>

You say, “I didn’t think a thing about it. I just looked out at the
world, and it’s a mess. It’s totally polarized. It’s totally
threatening.” But you’ve forgotten that something comes before what you
see. And because you have forgotten that something comes before what you
see, you end up bouncing around off of all of the high points of
conflict that your world presents to you, like a ball in a pinball
machine.

And what do you do to solve the problem of being bounced around? Why you
learn to apply a little torque to the roll of the ball that you are, so
that you can get down to the bottom end of the machine without bouncing
off of high points of conflict. Or you learn to say, “Oh, I’m going to
learn how to stay in my peace while I’m being bounced around. Peace is
the nature of my Being, I’m told. And so I must be able to experience
bliss no matter how many times I’m being bounced off high points of
conflict.” No. You don’t learn how to skillfully not suffer while you’re
still being bounced around by the high points of conflict. You do it by
remembering that there is something that comes before your looking out
at the world and seeing conflict. It is a choice you are making.

You have forgotten you made the choice. And you need to be reminded that
you have made a choice. Why? So that you can feel guilty? No. So that
you might recognize the power you have that you’re already employing
negatively; the power you have to do something different; to send out
different messengers; to want something different.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have looked upon your minds and accepted opposition there, having
SOUGHT it there. But do not then believe that the witnesses for
opposition are true, for they attest only to YOUR decision about
reality, returning to you the message you GAVE them. Love is recognized
by its messengers. If you make love manifest, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; because what love really is, is what you want, and you demonstrate
that love is what you really want by becoming undefended against your
Brother and Sister.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; its messengers will come to you because you INVITED them.
</div>

Because you invited them.

You always get what you want. And so the key is to start wanting
something different from what you have been wanting, either consciously
or unconsciously.

If [you’re] wanting to be a better and better independent authority, a
more and more successful orphan, then you are going to get what comes
along with it. You are going to get what is embedded in the very concept
of being alone. And your world will reflect back to you that you are
alone and, indeed, you are as vulnerable as you believe you are.

But all you need to do is ask yourself: “Do I really want to pursue this
course that I have been committed to, to demonstrate that I am a valid
orphan; that not having a Father and a Mother, not having a Source, does
not mean I’m invalid? Do I want to remain committed to that course,
knowing, as I’m now told, that it is what results in my interminable
experience of polarities in my environment that I must constantly be on
guard against, that for survival I must be able to be afraid of? Do I
want to remain committed to this course, as respectable a course as I
believe it is, when I don’t like the results?

“Or, shall I set a new course? Shall I abandon the orphan mentality?
Shall I let in a perspective greater than mine, which at the bottom line
you all know there is because you know you didn’t create all of this
Universe and all of Creation? Shall I let that in? Shall I let my
boundary become permeable? Shall I become actually undefended, even
though all of my conditioning says it will make me vulnerable to the
worst? Shall I dare to find a way to be fully present with my Brother,
not based upon my best judgments about his character and his personality
and what kind of person he really is? Shall I be undefended against a
better perception of him? Shall I dare to be undefended and let in what
God is being right there?”

See? You have to ask yourselves these questions, because whichever one
you want, you will get. And aren’t you tired of what you’ve been
getting? A new choice is called for.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The power of decision is your one remaining freedom as a prisoner of
this world. YOU CAN DECIDE TO SEE IT RIGHT. What YOU made of it is NOT
its reality, for its reality&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; to you, at this moment, from the orphan mentality.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is only what you GAVE it. You cannot really give anything but love
to anyone or anything, &hellip;
</div>

Your Brother or Sister. The daffodil or the slug.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You cannot really give anything but love to anyone or anything, nor can
you really RECEIVE anything else from them.
</div>

Why? Because of what they really Are, and what they always have been, in
spite of your misperception of them.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you think you have received anything else, it is because you have
looked within and thought you saw the power&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; where? In you&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; to give something else&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; “But, Father, I’d rather see it my way. But, Father, I would
rather say what a thing is. But, Father, I’d rather&hellip; I’d rather be
Fatherless.”

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you think you have received anything else, it is because you have
looked within and thought you saw the power to give something else
WITHIN YOURSELF. It was only this decision that determined what you
found, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; out there&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; for it was the decision of what you SOUGHT.
</div>

“But, Father, I’d rather see it my way.”

That was what you wanted. And that is what you have at the moment. And
your world as you’re experiencing it, is the result of that choice. It
will change in a twinkling of an eye when you change what you want. But
the tough part of it is that you’ll have to give up everything that
you’ve been taking pride in. And you have been taking pride in more and
more clearly demonstrating the validity of your existence without a
Source; made up entirely by you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You are afraid of me because you looked within and are afraid of what
you saw. Yet you could not have seen reality, for the reality of your
mind is the loveliest of God’s creations. Coming only from God, its
power and grandeur could only bring you peace IF YOU REALLY LOOKED UPON
IT. If you are afraid, it is because you saw something THAT IS NOT
THERE.
</div>

You see, as an orphan without a parent, there’s really nothing there.
And as long as you insist that you are an orphan—just the effect of a
sperm and an egg joining; a physical process—you have no reason to see
anything beautiful there. You have no capacity to see anything beautiful
there, because Creation is not what backs up your existence, for you.
And so you look blindly. And what you see is your blindness.

I’m going to read this again.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You are afraid of me because you looked within and are afraid of what
you saw. Yet you could not have seen reality, for the reality of your
mind is the loveliest of God’s creations.
</div>

Of your Father’s presencing of Himself, which you can’t see as long as
you’ve disowned your Father.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Coming only from God, its power and grandeur&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; its present power and grandeur, because your blindness to what it
is, hasn’t caused what it really is to go away.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Coming only from God, its power and grandeur could only bring you peace
IF YOU REALLY LOOKED UPON IT. If you are afraid, it is because you saw
something THAT IS NOT THERE.
</div>

You think you see polarity, because you think you have a personal
private capacity to see polarity.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet in that same place you could have looked upon me and all your
brothers, in the perfect safety of the Mind Which created us. For we are
there in the peace of the Father, who wills to project His peace through
YOU.

When you have accepted your mission to PROJECT peace you will FIND it,
for by MAKING IT MANIFEST you will SEE it. Its holy witnesses will
surround you because you CALLED upon them and they will come to you. I
have heard your call and I have answered it, but you will not look upon
me nor HEAR the answer which you sought. That is because you do not yet
want ONLY that. Yet as I become more real to you, you will learn that
you DO want only that. And you will see me as you look within, and we
will look upon the world as God created it together. Through the eyes of
Christ&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that which I am, and that which you are.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Through the eyes of Christ ONLY the real world exists and can BE seen.
As you decide so will you see. And all that you see but witnesses to &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what? &hellip;

&hellip; your decision.

I’m going to come back to the simple point that your Brother is your
savior.

Your Brother is your savior. The daffodil and the slug could be your
savior, but life doesn’t invite you to be involved with slugs and
daffodils quite as overtly as it calls upon you to relate to your
Brother and Sisters. Your Brothers and Sisters need peace. Your Brothers
and Sisters need not to be afraid. Your Brothers and Sisters need not to
be suffering. And you know what? Your Brothers and Sisters need not to
have to present a good face to the world in order to be embraced.

You need not to be afraid and you need not to be suffering. You need
sin, sickness, and death to be rendered unreal; dissolved from the
experience of Being because they are not valid parts of Being.

You are here to be Brothers and Sisters, not using each other to build
yourselves up independently, but to communicate the embrace of love that
wipes out the sense of threat; that doesn’t confirm threat that your
Brother or Sister has sent messengers out to retrieve news about. Your
Brothers and Sisters are your saviors because they give you the
opportunity to be the Christ. They give you the opportunity, they
actually present a demand upon you to be what you really Are, what you
truly Are.

They demand of you involvement. They demand of you that you care enough
to be present with them in their delusions, in their misunderstandings,
in their misapprehensions, so that you might, without platitudes and
boilerplate, recognize the crux of their misunderstanding so that you
might be in a position to illustrate it so that it can be seen for the
nonsense that it is, and so that that Brother can abandon it. It means
having pitiful patience with your Brother or your Sister, and standing
with them, whether it’s for a long time or for a short time, until the
love that you are expressing registers with them enough to allow them to
abandon the infrastructure of their attempts to be a successful and
valid, independent authority.

It doesn’t mean standing at a distance “knowing the Truth about them.”
Do you see me standing at a distance, “knowing the Truth about you”? The
way you see me be with you, in this fashion is the way I am with each of
you within yourselves when you reach out to me there.

And I’m being facetious here, but talk about “pitiful patience,” I’ve
been with you for two thousand years. It is my joy to be here with you.
It is my joy not to engage in self-righteousness, and wonder if it’s all
worth it because you are so stuck in the love of your current reasonings
that you don’t let go. I witness for you. I will witness for you
forever.

And you know what? When you wake up, I will still witness for you
forever, because it’s my function to see the glory of God right there
where you are. When you wake up, it isn’t as though a job I had will be
over; it’s just that we will join together in the activity, and you will
be happy because you are no longer suffering.

Your willingness to be present with and for your Brother, wishing to
see, wanting to see the Presence of God there, will inevitably cause the
messengers to come back to you confirming what you want to see. Not
because it will make you great, but because you’ve performed your
function of wanting to glorify God, not yourself, and glorify It right
there where your Brother is.

Do I sit back and not interfere or not, I’m going to say, coerce? No, I
definitely coerce. I definitely brother you—like mother you. I am
constantly there for you, presenting to you whatever illuminates your
capacity to become free of whatever is binding you. I do not leave you
to your own devices, because your own devices are “orphan” devices and
they will not get you anywhere.

I must be involved with you. And you must be involved with your Brothers
and Sisters.

And you will be influential. I am influential. I am influencing you. I
am presenting ideas that cause you to reconsider things. I present ideas
that you’re not anticipating. I present ideas that are outside of the
box—the box you very carefully created to separate off the “little part
of you that you’re identifying as yourself” from the Infiniteness of You
that is unbounded because it is the Presence of God being All right
there where you are.

But the one thing I’m not (and the one thing you dare not be) is someone
helping you (is your helping someone) on the basis of your very best,
most highly-developed, orphan mentality, because I promise you that in
every act you engage in, it will be a self-serving act and not a gift at
all. And it will be an act that takes away from your Brother, and
depletes him and keeps you depleted.

Want something new. Decide to want something new. And then abandon
self-reliance. Because I tell you that whatever your sense of self is at
the moment, is not the whole of you. Reach out and invite that which is
True and that which is Real in. Invite God in. Invite the Holy Spirit
in. Invite me in. Invite your guide in. Invite in anyone who is Awake.
And decide never to make any decisions by yourself, alone, again. And
when you’re tempted to, catch yourself and say, “Father, Jesus, Holy
Spirit, help me to see what is really needed here,” so that the joining
occurs. So that the joining occurs.

It’s time to stop pretending&hellip; it’s time to stop pretending that
you’re well on your spiritual path. It’s time to stop presenting a
picture of yourself as successful, but still aloof from your Brother.
You’re not managing to abandon thinking entirely, and you’re not always
comfortable, and you’re not always in your peace. But even so, you
persist in letting God in.

And you need to be more real with each other, because you all need each
other’s support. Again, not your pontificating, not your repeating of
biblical or spiritual boilerplate, but actually being present enough
with your Brother or Sister that he or she can share his or her pain or
hurt so that you, because you have experienced pain and hurt yourself,
can recognize them, recognize yourself in them, and be with them in full
expression of encouragement, because there will be days when you can
encourage, where you are not so discouraged that you can’t muster up
anything in you to encourage with. And there will be days when they are
able to encourage when you are discouraged.

Being willing to genuinely be present with your Brother and Sister means
being willing to be with them when they’re unstable, and not be
frightened by it because you haven’t forgotten when you were unstable.
You all need each other, but you will not be able to be present for each
other until you can abandon this façade of perfection, this façade of
stability, as though you never experienced instability before, and
therefore you have no capacity to really understand them and be
compassionate with them.

Why? Why do any of you get into that place? Because becoming involved
with them in this way will take time—time that someone as “spiritually
advanced as you” should no longer have to take, because you need to be
about your Father’s business of glorifying Him in everything, and being
an inspiration to everyone because you are an example of how well things
can work when you love God. So you must decide what you want, and you
must take a look at whether what you are presently wanting is the very
thing that is keeping you in a state of lack, limitation, suffering, and
on and on, because you’re getting what you’re asking for. And I’m
inviting everyone to come off their high horse and acknowledge that
you’re getting what you don’t want, no matter how easy it might be to
pass off the picture of success to your Brothers or Sisters, Brothers
and Sisters. It’s time to give your Brothers and Sisters your time.

A child can learn to ride a bicycle all by himself, or he can learn a
little more easily with a little bit of help from someone who takes the
time to steady the bike while the child grasps the experience of
balance, because it’s the experience of balance that has to be
discovered in order for him to ride without help. Don’t be too busy
being so spiritual that, like the Pharisee, you pass by on the other
side of the road and you miss out on what the experience is you could
have if you were the Good Samaritan. I said the experience you could
have, because the one the Good Samaritan helped was blessed, but it
wasn’t a one-way street. The Good Samaritan was blessed, because he
recognized himself in his Brother, and he was not employing a façade of
superiority, of uppity-ness, snobbery. Let’s put it straight:
self-righteousness. And humanity was embodied. And humanity always
involves a joining, a unity.

If this world that you see that appears to be so chaotic is going to
change, you/everyone is going to have to participate in its healing. By
what? As we read last week, withdrawing the definitions you have
overlaid upon it, by abandoning the boundary you have created around
yourself making you separate and special, and taking the time to walk
your Brother out of the cave he’s walked himself into; not because
you’re so great, but because on that particular day you can do it. And
on another particular day, someone will do it for you, because you’re
not there yet. And there’s nothing to be proud of yet. There’s nothing
to feed the orphan mentality.

Am I scolding you? No. I’m just being so clear with you, so
down-to-earth clear, so feet-on-the-ground clear with you that it has to
become obvious to you what you need to do to have a better experience,
at the same time that I’m telling you that you’re totally responsible
for what you’re experiencing, and because you are totally responsible
for it, you are doing something skillfully. I’ve just said that the
skill is being practiced in the negative, but the skill is there. It’s a
well-practiced skill. And you can make a new decision and use the skill
for waking up with your Brothers and Sisters.

I love you all very much.

Be with what I’ve said. Be less self-righteous. Be more genuine. Take
the time to be humane in your actions. [said to each individual present]
In your actions&hellip; in your actions&hellip; in your actions&hellip; in
your actions&hellip; in your actions&hellip; in your actions&hellip; in your
actions&hellip; and in your actions, all of you. It will take humility.

Okay.

[^1]: T11.7 The Guide for Miracles

