---
title: Apr 1, 2006
ref: Discussion
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who is joining us on the Internet.

During the past week somebody commented that here we had been talking
about healing for three or four weeks, and then suddenly last week we
moved in an entirely new direction because suddenly we were talking
about your Brother being your savior, and the necessity for involvement,
the necessity of letting down the defenses, the barriers, the boundaries
that keep each of you separate from each other in your mind and cause
you along with everyone else to feel alone even in the midst of a large
crowd. Well, this is part and parcel of the subject of healing. Your
Brother is your savior because he provides you with the opportunity or,
as I said last week, the demand to be What You Truly Are; to perform the
function that it is your purpose to perform, to be.

Well, as I also discussed last week, doing this takes time. Involvement
is messy. Involvement is more than just the experience of lofty
platitudes. It is a dynamic connection between you and your Brother. And
if your Brother finds himself bound by justifications in his own
&ldquo;mindset about existing&rdquo; and is suffering, you must be
willing to not cringe in the presence of that, but to be at peace enough
within yourself to be able to be present with your Brother or your
Sister right there in the muddle, so that you in your non-reaction to
what he&rsquo;s reacting to might gently be the presence that leads the
way out of the muddle.

Now there is an experience that&rsquo;s related in the Bible about a day
when I and my disciples were out in the city, and it was a busy day in
the marketplace and there were lots of people, and I sensed, as I said,
that virtue had gone out from me and I said, &ldquo;Who touched
me?&rdquo; And one of my disciples said, &ldquo;The people throng you
and you&rsquo;re asking who touched you?&rdquo; And I said, &ldquo;Yes,
because I perceive that virtue has gone out from me.&rdquo; I knew I
felt that a connection had occurred in which a union or a unity gelled
where I was present with someone who experienced being present with me.
In other words, the two of us experienced being boundaryless. And as it
turned out, it was a woman who, as the Bible says, was suffering from an
issue of blood. Contemporarily you could say that it was a hemorrhaging.
And in that moment of communion she was healed.

Now it&rsquo;s my intent tonight to encourage you to find ways to get
over the hurdle you feel that keeps you from connecting with your
Brother in a transforming way. You just can&rsquo;t continue being so
lofty in your spirituality that you begin to see it as beneath you to
muck around with those who are still involved in the muddle. The need is
not for more distance, more separation between you and your Brother, but
less, where your defenses dissolve.

Now someone else this week was sharing joy at the discovery of some
literature about healing that went into quite some detail about actual
healings that occurred, and was quite impressed and excited at hearing
of actual experiences of healing. And indeed, hearing of healing, actual
healing, is inspiring. But in the same conversation, this person also
shared that she had received a phone call from someone who shared that
they were going through a problem having discovered that they have an
unhealable disease, and said, &ldquo;I feel so sorry for her.&rdquo;

As you look at what I&rsquo;ve just described, can you see the disparity
between the experience of joy and excitement about healing, and the fact
that in the same time period that this joy was being experienced, she
was experiencing sadness at this friend&rsquo;s predicament?
That&rsquo;s like having, as we discussed last week, two different wants
and being split, but not recognizing that it&rsquo;s split, because in
both cases, I will tell you, that there&rsquo;s an underlying caring, an
underlying love of Truth, an underlying love that is extended both to
the new news about healing as well as the new news about the unhealable.
And this person did not recognize the difference, did not recognize the
polarity between the two views.

And I must ask you all, when you are relating to your Brothers and
Sisters, are you in a place in your mind where you feel virtue going out
from you? To say, &ldquo;I feel so sad about this person,&rdquo; does
not allow virtue to go out because virtue, the consciousness of Truth,
and the unreserved sharing of it, extending of it, cannot occur while
feeling sorry for this friend&rsquo;s predicament prevails or takes up
room in one&rsquo;s mind. Virtue can&rsquo;t possibly go out.

Now the saying is, &ldquo;As ye sow so shall ye reap.&rdquo; In other
words, the messengers you send out are the messengers that will come
back confirming what they were sent out to find. Well, it&rsquo;s not
that simple because the messengers you send out, the seeds you plant,
what you sow in your relationship with others, doesn&rsquo;t just come
back to you, reporting back to you what they were planted to blossom
into or grow into; they affect others as well.

It&rsquo;s sort of like the craziness of biologically changing plants
and fruits and vegetables so that, for instance, they might grow in an
easily packagable size. Because there&rsquo;s no way to keep what
you&rsquo;ve done private, you plant it somewhere, even in a greenhouse,
and try to keep the new strain separate from everything else, and you
cannot guarantee that some ant, or bug, or bee, won&rsquo;t find its way
to the blossom, and then find its way out and spread the new strain
until perhaps the original is no longer available.

You know from reading the *Course* that there are no private thoughts.
There are no seeds planted that are exclusively yours. &ldquo;Oh, I sent
out my messengers, and my messengers came back to me. It was a private
deal.&rdquo; You see? No, you send out your messengers and they meet the
world, and the world is affected, and indeed they come back to you.

Now there&rsquo;s a new way of being, there&rsquo;s a new way of being
in your minds that you need to wrap your mind around, if I may say so,
so that you might see that more discipline is necessary if indeed you
want to be miracle-minded, and if indeed you want to be an agent for
change, if indeed you wish to glorify God and have that glorification
manifest.

We&rsquo;ve talked for a great length of time, years, about healing, but
how many of you know anything about healing? In other words, what do you
do when healing is needed? Could you sit down and write a ten page
explanation? Or have you let the information that I have shared register
with you, inspire you with a little bit of a high and a little bit of
excitement, but have never let it move you to a point of involvement
with your Brother where virtue goes out from you?

To have virtue go out from you means that you have to have an intent to
not be the presence of something else, to not be the planter of the
seeds of disease. How do you plant the seeds for disease? Well, you can
be sure and tell everybody about the bird flu, and what the latest news
is about it, and how afraid they ought to be about it. You can do that.
Or when others are talking about their concerns about the bird flu or an
incurable problem that they&rsquo;re having, you can perhaps not be the
initiator, the planter of the seed, but you can be the one who waters
the seed by neglecting to do anything to correct it. &ldquo;Oh, I feel
so sorry for her, as though I have great compassion for her.&rdquo;
Well, compassion&hellip; that&rsquo;s nothing but bullshit, because
it&rsquo;s a meaningless act of quote &ldquo;caring.&rdquo;

Did this person, in response to the one sharing the bad news, say:
&ldquo;Well, you know what? No matter what the doctors say, here&rsquo;s
where I stand on it and I don&rsquo;t go along with them because I know,
and I know you know, that this is an illegitimate imposition upon you,
and that it is a result of a misunderstanding, a belief that
you&rsquo;re entertaining, and nothing else. And I am going to ask the
Holy Spirit to help you recognize what this belief is, so that you might
release it. In fact, I&rsquo;m going to be willing to be present with
you, listening myself for what that element is, or what it is that it
will take to break the mesmerism of the belief structures you&rsquo;re
bound by. And I will do that until I feel virtue go out from me.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Oh, there&rsquo;s this thing of taking time.&rdquo; And actually
caring enough to be involved, to be present with that person until an
involvement occurs where virtue goes out from you. That&rsquo;s how you
be an agent for change.  That&rsquo;s how you embody miracle-readiness,
and that&rsquo;s how you inspire miracle-readiness in another.

You know, the computer is a wonderful thing, and the internet is
repository of humongous amounts of information. And you can go online
and every ailment that has ever been experienced can be looked up, and
you can find out its description, its stages of development, and whether
it&rsquo;s curable or incurable. You can find out all about it so that
you may know exactly what to expect if you seem to be experiencing that
particular ailment. Well, the gestation period is such-and-such, the
recuperative period is such-and-such, and here are the symptoms that you
will experience at each stage.

Now what if you&rsquo;re the one saying this to another who is having a
problem? You&rsquo;re planting the seeds. You&rsquo;re watering the
belief structure. You&rsquo;re watering, nurturing, confirming the
disease to be real, so real that it can be mapped out. There is a
blueprint for every human ailment.

&ldquo;Oh. Well, here&rsquo;s this blueprint, and you know what? I read
this blueprint under a medical search program, and people who know what
they&rsquo;re talking about and who have examined and researched these
things, have found this is the way it is.&rdquo; And what happens? You
read it and you say, &ldquo;The educated perspective that has been
presented here is justification for me to accept what&rsquo;s being
said.&rdquo;

And I will tell you that whatever you can justify, you will have. And
whatever you justify to another is likely to be taken as justification
and applied to that one&rsquo;s situation, and because it&rsquo;s
justified, it is what that person will have. But it&rsquo;s all crap!
There is another way, always, to look at the situation.

And there are only two ways to look at the situation: one is through the
eyes of the Voice for Truth, and the other is through the eyes of the
voice for fear. One reports the Truth. And one reports illusion; one
reports lies; one reports what is not true.

Be careful, because if you justify a certain period of time from the
beginning to the end of an episode of a virus, and you say, &ldquo;This
is the way it is. And by my telling you the way it is, you can relax a
little bit, knowing what you&rsquo;re going to have to endure and that
you won&rsquo;t have to endure it forever.&rdquo; You know, this
wonderful saying of encouragement, &ldquo;This too shall pass.&rdquo;
The statement initiates or inspires no correction. It just says,
&ldquo;You can count on it being endurable.&rdquo;

&ldquo;This too shall pass.&rdquo; Well, isn&rsquo;t all of human life
made up of, &ldquo;This too shall come to pass, including you. You, too,
will pass, you know.&rdquo; And in fact, don&rsquo;t many of you use
[small laugh] your &ldquo;confidence in passing on&rdquo; to help you
have the strength to live today, because you won&rsquo;t have to be here
forever. &ldquo;Oh, I, you know, reasonably only have five more years,
six more years to live. And it&rsquo;s a little bit rough but, you know,
it&rsquo;s not going to last forever.&rdquo; No, it&rsquo;s going to end
when you end. And where&rsquo;s the enlightenment? Where&rsquo;s the
healing?  Where&rsquo;s the correction of the problem &ndash; now?

You see, the way you think &ndash; &ldquo;this too shall pass, this can
be endured because this too shall pass&rdquo;&mdash;is a frame of mind
that gets applied to everything you look at. It&rsquo;s, you know, the
end of spring, the beginning of summer, the plants are growing
beautifully and the slugs are eating away at it all, and you say,
&ldquo;Yep, well, fall&rsquo;s coming. It&rsquo;s gonna get cold, and
this too shall pass.&rdquo; You see? &ldquo;This won&rsquo;t go on
forever.&rdquo; Or it&rsquo;s a really hot summer, you say, &ldquo;Well,
this too shall pass. Winter&rsquo;s going to come.&rdquo; And then
it&rsquo;s really cold, and you say, &ldquo;Well, this too shall pass,
because spring is going to come and it&rsquo;s going to warm up.&rdquo;
You see? Where&rsquo;s redemption in that? Where&rsquo;s regeneration in
that?  Where&rsquo;s healing? Where&rsquo;s correction? Where&rsquo;s
waking up in that?

And are you not by your very words justifying the situation as it is,
plus the cyclical nature of it? Oh, interesting. S-i-c-k-l-i-c-a-l.
Sicklical. The sicklical nature of problems. &ldquo;But fortunately none
of them last too long to be unendurable and to keep your spirits
completely down.&rdquo; You think like this thoughtlessly. In other
words, not much thought is given to your thinking.

You&rsquo;re not thinking much about what you&rsquo;re thinking about.
You&rsquo;re not paying much attention to the use to which you&rsquo;re
putting your mind. And so since no change is called for, no change is
had. Since nothing new is justified, nothing new is experienced because
what you can justify, you will have. What you *justify*, you *have*.

When Paul was in his early twenties, there was a day that he happened to
notice a rash developing which he recognized as measles. Well, he knew
that there was a blueprint to the development and disappearance of
measles. But that isn&rsquo;t what he gave his attention to. He
immediately gave his attention to the fact that it was illegitimate;
that it wasn&rsquo;t the Truth; that it wasn&rsquo;t God-derived. Well,
someone else could have said to him, &ldquo;Well, you know, it&rsquo;s
going to go through this stage and it will take a certain number of
days. And then it&rsquo;ll go through another uncomfortable stage and
that will take a few days. Blah, blah, blah.&rdquo; But within two hours
all evidence of it was gone.

Now I just reported to you an instance of healing where the blueprint
became meaningless. You have got to begin to let the blueprints become
meaningless to you, because all they are, are a collection of thoughts
or beliefs that had been put together [in] which you have said,
&ldquo;Why, that&rsquo;s completely justifiable to me.&rdquo; And
because you&rsquo;ve justified it, you have it. But you don&rsquo;t have
to justify what isn&rsquo;t true. You don&rsquo;t have to justify
beliefs.

You&rsquo;ve really got to want to begin to know the Truth. And Truth
isn&rsquo;t a collection of beliefs. And after all the time we&rsquo;ve
been together, you know how to get to the Truth. You know that you must
stop thinking, that you must become still, and you must be willing to
devote yourself to hearing God&rsquo;s Truth about you. Not the
doctor&rsquo;s best opinions, but God&rsquo;s Truth about you.

You have to become a devotee of Love and its unalterable movement into
expression everywhere, including right where you are, including right
where the problem seems to be. And you&rsquo;ve got to be willing to
hang out there, perhaps like a monk in a monastery, but as a seeker of
Truth in your own mind, where there&rsquo;s a holy devotion, the purpose
of which is to hear God, to hear the Truth, to experience the Truth, to
experience virtue coming out to you that fragments the justification,
that fragments whatever it was that you were holding on to that said,
&ldquo;Not only is what&rsquo;s happening to me possible, it&rsquo;s
inevitable. And I have no choice about it.&rdquo;

And likewise for your Brother, you see? The Truth or the illusion that
you hold yourself to, is the Truth or illusion that you will hold your
Brother to. Whichever it is, the messengers accompanying it are what you
will send out to your Brother.

Are you going to dare to be in the world in a new way, and stop planting
or watering the seeds of messages of death? Because disease is a message
of death; it&rsquo;s just that some diseases don&rsquo;t get you all the
way to the grave. And if you don&rsquo;t know by now that what I&rsquo;m
talking about with all of you is that which undoes your ever getting to
a grave, well, then I will persist in sharing that with you until it
registers with you, until I experience virtue going out from me and
touching you, and changing you because it&rsquo;s helped uncover a
bondage that, if you had seen it for what it is, you never would have
engaged in.

Your Brother is your savior because he gives you, presents you with the
opportunity to abandon your isolation, and to be present with him
honestly enough&hellip;

(PAUL: Just a moment.)

&hellip; and vulnerable enough to let a Love connection occur, because
it&rsquo;s your goal to see the evidence of Love and to be the evidence
of Love.  Anything less than that involvement, that connection with your
Brother, anything other than that is going to amount to a head trip.

&ldquo;Oh, I&rsquo;m holding you in a ball of light.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Okay, if you want to. I&rsquo;d much rather connect with you.
I&rsquo;d much rather experience your presence here with me. But, hey,
if you want to imagine a ball of light around me, oh, go ahead.&rdquo;

You see? Anything other than &ldquo;the connection&rdquo; becomes
nothing but some form of a mental incantation, like saying
&ldquo;Shazam!&rdquo; and that&rsquo;s supposed to make everything all
right. Well, [laughing] you can sit on a desert island all by yourself,
where nobody knows where you are because you told no one where you were
going, and you can sit there and say &ldquo;Shazam!  Shazam!
Shazam!&rdquo; all day long and all night long for days and weeks, and
the incantation will do nothing. Why? Because you&rsquo;re all by
yourself, and you&rsquo;re all by yourself on purpose. With great
resolve, you&rsquo;re all by yourself. You went to a great deal of
trouble to be all by yourself. You went to a great deal of trouble to be
absolutely sure there would be no involvement.

Well, why do you suppose the idea found form in the words, &ldquo;No man
is an island&rdquo;? Because every single one of you are living as
though you were &ldquo;an island&rdquo; with a very definite boundary
around you&mdash;and everything inside the boundary, you say, is
&ldquo;me&rdquo; and everything outside of the boundary is &ldquo;not
me.&rdquo; It&rsquo;s very distinct. It&rsquo;s very absolute. And
it&rsquo;s not true!

Everything you experience is some aspect of the infinitude of your
Being, of your Infinite Being. And the boundary you hold so close to
you, that you separate yourself from your Brothers with, is absolutely
nothing more than a figment of your imagination. But it is a figment
which you have reinforced so solidly that you believe it&rsquo;s true.
It is, however, nothing more than a belief.

&ldquo;Oh,&rdquo; you say, &ldquo;there&rsquo;s not enough time in
eternity for me to be significantly present with all of my Brothers
going through all of their shit with them and helping them become free
of it. It&rsquo;s an impossible task.&rdquo;

Fortunately, it just takes your dealing with the few people that are in
your experience. To be the one, or the one of many ones who are pushing
the first domino and who, because of the plants you&rsquo;re seeding,
because of the seeds you&rsquo;re planting, are causing the simple gift
of attention and communion to spread without your having to plant every
seed, because the seed that&rsquo;s planted grows and flowers and puts
forth seeds that you don&rsquo;t have to cultivate, and it goes on and
on and on. There are people in your immediate experience who need your
love, who need your willingness to be in the place within yourself where
you&rsquo;re not rehearsing the justifications for death, or near death,
or slight physical inconvenience.

Mind you, that the justifications for illness that you sow by
communicating them to your friends&mdash;which if they&rsquo;re not
alert, will cause them bondage&mdash;you are bound by. Whatever the gift
is that you give, you receive; you get to keep.

Now we have an anesthesiologist in the room who has knowledge about the
blueprint of disease and physical abnormalities, let&rsquo;s say, whose
task is to work with those who are in surgery for the correction of the
problem. Now you are faced with this on a daily basis. But you know
what? If there&rsquo;s someone who&rsquo;s come in because there&rsquo;s
a melanoma on his face and it&rsquo;s going to be surgically removed,
you by virtue of not finding the justification for the disease that the
physicians find and that the patient himself finds, could very well be
the trigger that causes the melanoma to dissolve before the surgery can
begin. &ldquo;Oh, dear!  That might put you out of a job!&rdquo; Well,
it might, but what a wonderful thing.

But that&rsquo;s the kind of changing of one&rsquo;s mind that will
occur. This is the kind of transformation that will occur when instead
of accepting the generally accepted justifications for things, you are
willing to be in that place where virtue may go out from you, because
the justifications everyone else finds valid are nonsense to you,
because you&rsquo;re willing to entertain a different perspective
gathered from the Peace of your Being and your connection with the Holy
Spirit, or me, or the Father&mdash;that which will always and only be
reflecting your right Mind. There needs to be more expectation of
instantaneous healing that occurs without abiding by the physical laws
of matter that seem to justify a particular time period of illness after
which wellness returns, or a particular period of time of illness after
which death occurs.

You&rsquo;ve got to be radical. Otherwise what&rsquo;s the point?
What&rsquo;s the point if actual complete correction of the problem
can&rsquo;t be experienced? Then you&rsquo;re just using this book to
make it a little bit easier to endure the inevitable.

And you may well become very familiar with the words in the book and be
able to espouse them, while at the same time, so to speak, out of the
other side of your mouth say, &ldquo;Well, of course you&rsquo;re
feeling bad. You were exposed to some very potent chemicals.&rdquo; You
see? Wow, what a seed to plant! And if the person hearing that can seem
to justify that in their mind, well, [small laugh] there went
miracle-mindedness! Because what you can justify, you have.

Do you realize the dynamic powerfulness of that statement, &ldquo;What
you can justify, you will have?&rdquo; &ldquo;Well, I can&rsquo;t
justify instantaneous healing.  Look at the damage!&rdquo; Oh, okay, now
the damage, the injury has become the justification for not expecting
instantaneous healing. That&rsquo;s not miracle-mindedness. And that is
not the frame of mind in which a sudden shift of perception can occur,
and therefore no shift of perception, no shift of the conscious
experience of Being can occur. And it won&rsquo;t! *What you can
justify, you will have.*

You know, somebody says to you, &ldquo;Oh, I&rsquo;m having this
condition,&rdquo; and instead of saying, &ldquo;Well, you know, the
gestation period is three days,&rdquo; you say, &ldquo;You know, I know
what everybody says about this, but I can&rsquo;t justify that in my
mind, because the only thing that makes sense to me is that you&rsquo;re
a divine idea. You&rsquo;re the direct expression of God. You are the
presencing that God is making of Himself right there where you stand.
And I can&rsquo;t justify having a conscious experience different from
or less than that. And that&rsquo;s where I&rsquo;m going to stand. And
if you&rsquo;d care to stand there with me on it, that would be
great.&rdquo; And if that one doesn&rsquo;t stand with you on it,
that&rsquo;s okay, because you&rsquo;ve planted a different seed,
instead of planting one that confirms the problem together with its
blueprint, or watering and nurturing the blueprint that that person is
holding in their mind.

You are either planting seeds of destruction, or you are watering them
by neglecting to do anything that will correct them. And the key point
is that each of you &ldquo;in you&rdquo; has the capacity to be that
trigger that undoes the mindset, the belief system that holds the
problem in place.

And if you have that capacity, well, I could throw a guilt trip on you
by saying, &ldquo;How can you go to bed at night without having engaged
that capacity? When you have that gift to give, how can you go to bed at
night and sleep peacefully if you have withheld that gift?&rdquo;

But there&rsquo;s a better way to put it; one that doesn&rsquo;t instill
guilt. &ldquo;If you have the capacity to make that gift and making that
gift brings your mind into greater Singularity that is more reflective
of the Father&rsquo;s Mind, which is what truly constitutes your Mind,
and if you have the capacity to do this and more clearly express your
Birthright, and be able to come back into the truer experience of your
Being in which all of your suffering can disappear, and fulfillment
beyond your comprehension can register with you, then&hellip; &rdquo;
You see, I&rsquo;m not going to say, &ldquo;Why aren&rsquo;t you
engaging in it?&rdquo; Because then that&rsquo;ll send you on a search
for the flaw in you&mdash;the &ldquo;Why is it? Why is it, what is there
in me that keeps me from my Good?&rdquo; You see?

My question is, &ldquo;If you have the capacity to give this gift, to
make this gift,&hellip; &rdquo; No, it can&rsquo;t be a question at all.
&ldquo;If you have the capacity to make this gift, then make the
gift.&rdquo;

I encourage you to be willing to be the oddball. I encourage you to be
one who no longer continues to pass the justifications for sin, disease,
and death on to each successive generation. I encourage you to break the
line of history. You see, part of the justification for illness is that
&ldquo;historically&rdquo; this is the way this disease behaves. So not
only is there a &ldquo;learned one&rdquo; making the statement,
it&rsquo;s being tied in with &ldquo;historical evidence.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Whoa! How can you fight historical evidence. Historical evidence
is even more binding than brand-new evidence that was just discovered
yesterday. At least there you can say, well, I&rsquo;m gonna wait before
I accept that justification because tomorrow somebody may come up with a
different interpretation. I mean, after all, last week they said,
&lsquo;Coffee was bad for you,&rsquo; and this week they say,
&lsquo;Coffee is good for you. Tests have proven it.&rsquo;&rdquo; You
see? Quote: &ldquo;If it&rsquo;s &lsquo;historically provable,&rsquo;
therefore as far back as recorded history is available, this disease
function, this functions this way, well, what can you do?&rdquo;

What you can do is remember that you see what you&rsquo;re looking with.
You see what you&rsquo;re looking with, what you are looking for. The
impetus for the inquiry that causes the messengers to be sent out sets
in motion what the news is that the messengers will bring back.
That&rsquo;s what you must remember. And that has nothing to do with a
history more than a [snap of the fingers] split second long from the
moment the curiosity was there to the moment the confirmation comes
back. That&rsquo;s all the history there is to consider.

I wish to see the evidence of Love in my Brother. I see, I wish to see
the evidence of Love, with a capital &ldquo;L&rdquo;. We&rsquo;re
talking about Divine Love. I wish to see the evidence of Love on my skin
in spite of what history says about what appears to be on my skin.
That&rsquo;s the way you get off the wheel of history. That&rsquo;s the
way you get in the venue, if I may put it that way, of instantaneous
healing. Healing that&rsquo;s not bound by physical laws, or time, or
edified explanations.

Where are you going to go to gather your information about how you are?
To medical documentation on the internet? To your own body? To your
memories about similar conditions or situations in the past? In other
words, [small laugh] are you going to look for what you&rsquo;re already
familiar with? What has already been? Or are you going to inquire of a
more expansive source&mdash;the Holy Spirit which is nothing more than
your right Mind? And your right Mind is the presence of Mind that is God
being All There Is, and so you&rsquo;re absolutely and totally divine in
your actuality right now.

And I&rsquo;m inviting you to shift from the voice for fear&mdash;which
is the voice of history, which is the voice of your beliefs which have
been built around a premise that you&rsquo;re an orphan, isolated,
alone, solitary, and having to demonstrate your validity&mdash;or are
you going to inquire, I&rsquo;m asking you to shift from that to the
arena of your true Birthright where you ask of your Source what the
Truth is. To ask for inspiration that lifts your capacity to perceive
beyond the level of perception you have been currently employing, so
that you might see the world from a different vantage point, and find
that it&rsquo;s the Kingdom of Heaven, and find no evidence of anything
unlike the Kingdom of Heaven, which would be called healing.

Now I&rsquo;m going to suggest something else. If you&rsquo;re in need
of healing, find someone else that you know who is in need of healing,
and be willing to be present for them from that place in you that is
guided and nourished by the Father&rsquo;s Point of View, by the
Father&rsquo;s capital &ldquo;L&rdquo; Love. And be willing to let
virtue go out from you in spite of your condition, because remember what
you give, you get to keep.

Now this coming week, I want all of you to read the next three or four
paragraphs that we would have read tonight, because you will find them
illuminating what I&rsquo;ve talked about. We will still read them with
fresh eyes next week.

But it is truly important for you all to stop thinking that you can read
the *Course* or hear what I&rsquo;m having to say and still straddle the
fence; still walk with one foot in one camp and the other foot in the
other camp, and not recognize that you are expressing two different
wants simultaneously that are contradictory of each other, and
you&rsquo;re making it one. You do not see it as an evidence of lack of 
integrity in you. You do not see it as the confusion it is. And you do 
not see, as we read last week, that when you make the two one, you 
recognize neither one of them. If you recognize neither one of them, 
you don&rsquo;t have either one of them. Healing is when you have one 
or the other.

Now if you try to have the illusion, you can&rsquo;t succeed, so
I&rsquo;m going to give you a little helpful advice. If you want to have
the illusion, go for it! Try to possess it, try to make it your own, so
that you find out that you can&rsquo;t sooner than if you have this
intent, this want that&rsquo;s contrary to this want and you&rsquo;re
going to maintain them both and think that there is perfect consistency
in you.

Somebody who&rsquo;s an alcoholic, or has been an alcoholic but is
trying to break the habit, might say, &ldquo;I cannot conceive of,
let&rsquo;s say, living for five years without having a drink. That
would be an incredibly difficult task.&rdquo; And all of you, like
alcoholics, or addicts, let&rsquo;s say, might say, &ldquo;Wow, it would
really be difficult for me to neglect to reinforce the old
justifications, the old explanations of the physical processes of sin,
disease, and death and to always be free, empty of those justifications
and all the ramifications that they had for me.&rdquo; But I&rsquo;m
telling you it&rsquo;s your Birthright to be empty of those.

And I&rsquo;m encouraging you this week to watch to see what the seeds
are you&rsquo;re planting, and to watch to see when you&rsquo;re
shifting from one opposing side to the other opposing side. And
you&rsquo;ll find, generally speaking, that you&rsquo;ll do the shifting
when it fits the occasion. So if you&rsquo;re with your spiritual
friends, you say it one way. And with your non-spiritual friends,
you&rsquo;ll talk about the inevitability of disease and the stages of
its process, and the process of death. &ldquo;I mean, after all, life is
a terminable disease, isn&rsquo;t it?&rdquo; No, it&rsquo;s not.

And what you&rsquo;re all faced with is the delight of discovering that.
And the discovery of that is &ldquo;the correction&rdquo; of the
problem, in which all evidence of disease, of &ldquo;sin, disease and
death&rdquo; will disappear. So now you are, I hope, a little bit
clearer about what the word &ldquo;healing&rdquo; means and what&rsquo;s
involved.

One additional thing, and it&rsquo;s for you to look at&mdash;and not
for you to report to anyone&mdash;each night when you go to bed this
coming week, ask yourself whether at any point during the day you felt
virtue go out from you. If you didn&rsquo;t, then know that you have
another opportunity another day in which to bring your mind into that
kind of attentiveness where there&rsquo;s a more ever-present
willingness to be the presence of Love in a way with your Brother that
will allow virtue to go out from you with the potential of healing
occurring, because that kind of attentiveness, or self-discipline, is
what will move you out of your old habits, and allow a gradual and
graceful movement into, what I&rsquo;ll call, a new arena of
consciousness, a new arena of being conscious which embodies more of the
Truth of What You Are, which embodies more of and glorifies more of what
God is being right there where you are.

Love each other as I love you.

Now, that sound like hard work? Well, I&rsquo;ll tell you what hard work
would be. If I told you this week, &ldquo;Get out there and be a bad-ass
mother-fucker,&rdquo; now that would be hard. So if you&rsquo;re
inclined to complain or feel that I&rsquo;m&hellip; you&rsquo;re being
put upon to do something not really easy, change your mind &rsquo;cause
otherwise I just might arrive at a day where I tell you.

I love you. I look forward to being with you next week.

