---
title: Apr 15, 2006
ref: T11.7 The Guide for Miracles
alink: "/acim/text/11/chap1107/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who is joining us on the Internet.

Well, everyone had an extra week of going to bed at night with the
opportunity to ask, &ldquo;Did virtue go out from me today?&rdquo; And
let me just suggest that because we&rsquo;re now moving on in the book,
it doesn&rsquo;t mean that it&rsquo;s not an excellent idea to continue
to ask yourself that question each night, because I&rsquo;ll tell you
something, this is what&rsquo;s going to make a difference for you, for
your Brother, for the world.

For you to keep a conscious intent alive in you daily to be willing to
really connect with your Brothers and Sisters, to really be present with
them with the willingness to recognize God there, and to be willing to
be receptive of God&rsquo;s Perspective of them within you, is exactly
what will bring about not only a shift of perception&mdash;a sudden
shift of perception&mdash;it will bring about probably a gradual, rather
than sudden, shift in your Being; a shift in the way you be present in
the world; a shift in which you are not constantly coming from your
memory with knee-jerk responses out of habit. It will remind you that
each moment is the opportunity to be fresh; freshly; in a way
you&rsquo;ve never been before. You see?

If we are going to talk about a goal, what&rsquo;s the goal? The goal is
to not be the way you&rsquo;ve been being; to not be subject to sin,
sickness and death; to not be subject to fear; to not behave out of
fear. You&rsquo;re right in the middle of the Kingdom of Heaven right
now. You&rsquo;re not perceiving it as what it is. It&rsquo;s your
Birthright to be experiencing it exactly as it is. And so the call is
for literally &ldquo;something new&rdquo; to happen in you that allows
you, as I said, to be in a new way so that you begin to neglect to
energize your old habits of thinking, your old habits of perceiving, and
thereby make room for insight, even revelation.

Every day is your opportunity to have this experience. Every day is not
the opportunity to have the experience you had yesterday. So like
Captain Kirk and all those on the spaceship The Starship Enterprise,
&ldquo;Every day is the opportunity for you to go where no man has gone
before.&rdquo; I mean that literally. And I mean that you should expect
to have experiences you haven&rsquo;t had before, and to accept what
I&rsquo;m telling you is the fact that you have the capacity, and you
have the capacity because you&rsquo;re far more than you think you are.

You&rsquo;re not this little piss-ant mortal, this little, physical,
inconsequentially-small, physical body in the middle of a huge universe,
physical universe. You are the Mind, the Conscious Awareness, in which
all of these experiences of body, world and universe are going on. And
this Mind that you are has no boundaries. At this moment, it has no
boundaries.

But you know what? We talked last week about the blueprints for disease.
You have blueprints in your mind that have become like a sieve through
which you look at the Kingdom of Heaven and you see it in the
configuration caused by the blueprint&mdash;the confident concepts you
entertain about what everything is and how everything must work. And you
know what? It&rsquo;s time for you to become released from those
blueprints.

And every time we talk I am helping you realize that you don&rsquo;t
have to abide by the blueprints. And I am reminding you to be curious
beyond them, which means that you necessarily must be willing to
invalidate them. At least to say to yourself, &ldquo;Maybe the way
I&rsquo;m perceiving everything isn&rsquo;t exactly right.&rdquo;

I don&rsquo;t require you to say to yourself that they are totally wrong
or that you must do this all in one giant leap. But I am encouraging you
not to be so damn sure that you know tomorrow basically how everything
is going to be and how everything is going to behave&mdash;and that if
certain events happen, certain consequent events will have to
happen&mdash;so that you might be in each moment of tomorrow with
innocent eyes; with a willingness to see what you&rsquo;re not
expecting; to see something that functions outside the blueprint you
have established in your mind as the basis for perceiving correctly.

So please, continue to ask yourself each night, &ldquo;Has virtue gone
out from me?&rdquo; And if it hasn&rsquo;t, then avail yourself of the
opportunity tomorrow so that you begin to be&mdash;not think about, not
reason about&mdash;but you have reason to be a transformational presence
in your world.

Your world is in need of healing, and the healing isn&rsquo;t going to
arise out of already-established blueprints. And your various countries
are attempting, to the best of their ability, to correct problems
according to existing blueprints&mdash;certain principles of law,
certain principles of order, certain agreed-upon principles of behavior,
even rules of war. You see? Blueprints.

How do you get free of blueprints? You get free of blueprints by being
willing to be present with needs.

Are needs intellectual? Well, you can imagine needs like, &ldquo;I want
to become a successful person in the world. I want to become a
millionaire. I want to be somebody who has enough money to do truly good
works in the world.&rdquo; You&rsquo;ll say, &ldquo;Well, these are
wonderful ideas.&rdquo; But it&rsquo;s a head trip.

How do you do good things in the world? Well, you pay attention to
needs.

For example: You&rsquo;re in the army and you&rsquo;re a potato peeler.
And you realize that there needs to be a more effective way of peeling
potatoes, and so you open yourself up to what the possibilities are. And
in the act of inviting something more than the historical pattern [small
laugh] through decades of military protocols of how to peel potatoes,
you get an idea. And it&rsquo;s a good idea and it meets the need, and
you have been a transformational presence because for one thing
&ldquo;whatever you realized&rdquo; is one day going to end up in the
supermarket for the housewife to use. So it will reach far. It&rsquo;s
the little things that make the difference if you are willing to be
present with the need.

The word &ldquo;need&rdquo; doesn&rsquo;t really mean lack. It
doesn&rsquo;t mean &ldquo;needy,&rdquo; which is something you can have
judgments about. &ldquo;Oh, I don&rsquo;t want to be a needy
person.&rdquo; You see? &ldquo;Needy people are not respectable. Nobody
respects a needy person.&rdquo; And now we&rsquo;ve gotten into ego
dynamics about personality, and your picture of yourself and how you
want the world to see you, and so on. We&rsquo;re not in touch with need
at all anymore.

Need is when you experience an inconvenience, we&rsquo;ll say, that you
don&rsquo;t enjoy, that doesn&rsquo;t need to be. Need can appear as
lack presenting itself to you as a fact to be accepted, and accepting it
is the way to deal with it. That&rsquo;s one way it can be looked at.
But need is always a form of pregnancy, if I can put it that way. Need
is a pregnancy about to be fulfilled&mdash;which means it is an
experience that brings to light the fact that something is incomplete,
but the reason the awareness of its incompleteness occurs to you is
because something is coming to fill it that is new.

So you&rsquo;ve got to stop being afraid of the experience of need and
the willingness to address needs, the willingness to be with a Brother
or a Sister who is in need&mdash;who is interpreting the need as a lack
and something that reflects poorly on him or her&mdash;and to be able to
be with that Brother or Sister in a way that facilitates the birth,
rather than confirming their perception of lack and what it has to say
about them.

Transition from one mode of operation to an improved mode of operation
is a movement of pregnancy and birth. And each day you want to be able
to be present in your day with that kind of frame of mind in which you
are willing to be, for lack of better words, &hellip; [pause] the word
has escaped Paul. What is the name of a woman attending a mother
delivering a child? [audience responses] A midwife. Yes. You have the
opportunity to be the midwife of, in the delivery, the coming forth of
clarification in you.

Some women on a delivery table behave in a way that certainly looks like
there&rsquo;s an emergency happening; that there&rsquo;s a dire need. A
dire need. [laughing] Well, there is, but it&rsquo;s not dire.
It&rsquo;s wonderful. It&rsquo;s birth. And if the mother can become
unafraid of what&rsquo;s happening, if she can relax to the best of her
ability and not tense up, even though the delivery may be strenuous, it
will be more comfortable. It will be more graceful. And I understand
that the majority of the women listening who have given birth will say,
&ldquo;There ain&rsquo;t nothing graceful about it at all!&rdquo; But
you do know what I mean.

Now as a mother, you have no choice but to hang in there with the
movement, right? And what we&rsquo;ve been talking about last week in
terms of healing is that each of you has to be willing to hang in with
the &ldquo;movement of healing,&rdquo; even though in the process, those
you&rsquo;re working with may be gnashing their teeth and may not at the
moment be seeing what is happening as different from the way
they&rsquo;re perceiving it, with a different outcome than the one
they&rsquo;re expecting.

So it&rsquo;s when you&rsquo;re willing to be present with the needs,
the simple human needs; not lofty ones. &ldquo;I need to spiritualize
myself.&rdquo; Well, good luck. But if you want to have the experience
of spiritualization then come down to earth and pay attention to the
human needs. And be willing to be present with them with the Father at
your side, or the Holy Spirit at your side, or me at your side, so that
together we may look upon the need and watch the coming forth of the
meeting of the need&mdash;which because of the perspective that is
available with the Father or the Holy Spirit or me, the movement of need
being met will be so obviously divine that you will feel the divinity of
it and the extension of it, and you will know that virtue has gone out
from you.

You will know that virtue has gone out from you because the experience
will be recognizably holy. And this in itself will be confirmation for
you that, indeed, there is really a God. And you&rsquo;re not Him, and
yet you&rsquo;re inseparable from Him. And your partnership, if I may
put it that way, with Him is enhanced. Your experience of your
inseparability from Him is confirmed to you more firmly than ever
before, which will inspire you the next day to, with more confidence, be
willing to be present with your Brother and your world with actually the
hope, the anticipation of experiencing virtue going out from you again.

The world&rsquo;s needs might seem to you to be something you
couldn&rsquo;t possibly address, but I promise you that each time virtue
goes out from you in your day where simple human needs have been
successfully addressed, no matter how small they are, it is like the
leaven that leavens the whole lump. It makes a difference.

Put a little, yellow sticky-note on your refrigerator with the word
&ldquo;leaven&rdquo; on it. Just remind yourself that that&rsquo;s what
you&rsquo;re here to be: the leaven. The little, inconsequential leaven
that leavens the whole thing, not because it&rsquo;s trying to, but
because what? It does its job in this particular place in the dough.
Give yourself reminders. Ask yourself at night, &ldquo;Did I feel virtue
go out from me today?&rdquo; And in the morning when you get up and you
go in the kitchen and you see the word &ldquo;leaven,&rdquo; it will be
a reminder to you that you&rsquo;re here to be &ldquo;the leaven&rdquo;
during the day.

Keep reminders like this handy, because it&rsquo;s so easy for you to
get caught up in the old blueprints. They are such habits. And the
habits need to be broken. They need to be broken because they constitute
illegitimate bondages that it is not appropriate or fair for you to be
experiencing. When it&rsquo;s not your habit to be present in the world
with the desire for virtue to go out from you, you won&rsquo;t
spontaneously think to do it. So provide yourself with reminders.
Because it&rsquo;s only by doing it&mdash;even if it&rsquo;s only the
intent brought into play many times a day whether there seems to be
success or not&mdash;it&rsquo;s only that act of bringing it into play
consciously everyday that the habit that had been governing you, can
begin to weaken and dissolve and make room for the new experience.

So, yes, use a little self-discipline. Be willing to be conscientious
about it. You close the drawer on your finger real hard and it swells up
and it&rsquo;s very uncomfortable. I bet none of you have any trouble
&ldquo;being conscientious&rdquo; about not banging that finger on
anything. Now if you can be conscientious like that so that you
don&rsquo;t hurt, you can be conscientious in terms of an intent to be
that which brings peace, that which brings transformation. The only
thing is that you don&rsquo;t have pain to drive your conscientiousness.
So it takes a little bit more conscious direction.

You can do it. And I just encourage you to begin to do it. And bring all
of this A Course in Miracles theory, or religious theory, or spiritual
theory, out of your head and into your actions.

Now lots of Christian preachers have said much the same thing to their
congregations. But you know what the difference is? I&rsquo;m telling
you that you&rsquo;re doing this in &ldquo;the here and now&rdquo; not
only meets the human needs that are part of the human experience, what
I&rsquo;m encouraging you to do has the ultimate purpose of moving you
out of the frame of mind you are currently in, into a new one in which
the Kingdom of Heaven can begin to appear to you right here, right now,
today, tomorrow&mdash;not after you die, not for future generations.

Because as I&rsquo;ve said, you&rsquo;ve been behaving as though
you&rsquo;re orphans and you&rsquo;re not. Now you have to bring some of
your own gumption into play and actually begin to do this, because
it&rsquo;s in the doing of it and experiencing the actual healing, the
actual transformation that results, that awakens you to the fact that
what is divinely True about you, is true now, and is experiencable now,
and is worth the effort that you have to bring into play.

Again none of what we&rsquo;re talking about is a means of your finding
bliss that allows you to endure the human condition without it changing.
Correction isn&rsquo;t punishment for wrongdoing. Correction is to
become free of that which was false, but which you had been bound by.

Okay, let&rsquo;s go to the book.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you look within and see me, it will be because you have decided to
manifest truth.
</div>

Very simply, if you look within and don&rsquo;t see me, it&rsquo;s
because you&rsquo;ve gone within to see yourself, to see what you think,
to see what you&rsquo;re confident about, to see what your skills are,
so that you can see what you can do to make things better in the world,
or even at times to make things worse for someone in your world. If
you&rsquo;ve gone in and you&rsquo;ve gone in to see yourself, you
haven&rsquo;t decided to manifest Truth. You&rsquo;ve decided to
manifest your arrogance. You&rsquo;ve gone within because you&rsquo;ve
decided to be the authority here and to do it well.

And yet this one who&rsquo;s going to be an authority and do things
well, thinks it&rsquo;s an orphan; thinks it has no connection with God;
thinks it has no divine Source. It just thinks it is an organism, a
body. &ldquo;Here today, gone tomorrow. While you&rsquo;re here, make
the best of everything that you can.&rdquo; You see?

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you look within and see me, it will be because you have decided to
manifest truth. And as you manifest it you will see it both without AND
within, for you will see it without &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in other words, out there &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; BECAUSE you saw it first within.
</div>

The messengers you send out &ldquo;by your intent&rdquo; will always
come back confirming to you what you sent them out to find, whether
there is something else there or not. It&rsquo;s called
&ldquo;self-deception.&rdquo;

But if your desire is to see Truth, and the messengers you send out are
a willingness to see Truth&mdash;what is Really True&mdash;they will
come back confirming to you what is True, because you saw it first
within, because that was your desire first within.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Everything you behold &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; out there, without having seen it first within.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Everything you behold without is a judgment of what you beheld within.
</div>

If you haven&rsquo;t gone within to ask of God what a thing is,
you&rsquo;ve gone within to ask what your best judgments say a thing is,
or what the educated say a thing is, or what history says a thing is.
And that can only constitute a judgment; an appraisal of what a thing
is; the best appraisal that history or the educated ones or you have
come to. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If it is YOUR judgment it will be wrong, for judgment is not your
function.
</div>

See, judgment is not your function. It&rsquo;s not your function to
assess and come to conclusions about things.

But if you think you&rsquo;re an orphan, you think that is your primary
function, because if you don&rsquo;t get a handle on your world and if
you don&rsquo;t get a handle on your Brother&rsquo;s behavior or his
attitude or what&rsquo;s making him tick, you will be at a disadvantage
because you have no natural safety, you have no inherent
invulnerability. And so your basic function is to engage in constant
judgments to stay abreast of things in this hostile world that this
&ldquo;poor little orphan that you are&rdquo; lives in.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If it is YOUR judgment it will be wrong, for judgment is not your
function.
</div>

Before we go on, what is your function if judgment isn&rsquo;t your
function? Your function is to be conscious. Your function is to be
aware. Your function is to experience what is happening and recognize
God in it. Your function is to recognize God in it and experience the
natural awe that spontaneously arises out of the clear awareness of the
movement of Creation. That&rsquo;s your function.

It is your function to joy in the conscious experience of Reality right
here in Kingston, Washington, right there in Bellingham, Washington,
right there on the east coast, and right there in Iraq. You see?
That&rsquo;s your function and your Birthright&mdash;to have the joy of
recognizing it, truly seeing it, and having it truly represent the
Presence of God in movement.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If it is YOUR judgment it will be wrong, for judgment is not your
function. If it is the judgment of the Holy Spirit it will be right, for
judgment IS His function.
</div>

The Holy Spirit looks and sees God. The Holy Spirit, which is nothing
more than your right Mind, sees everything and recognizes God in it, and
joys in the awesome experience of it. That&rsquo;s what your right Mind
actually is doing right now, even though you are conscientiously
ignoring it because you&rsquo;re giving preference to this little
&ldquo;blueprint of a mind&rdquo; that you&rsquo;ve concocted
that&rsquo;s part of an organism that&rsquo;s here today and gone
tomorrow, and better make the best of everything. You see? Okay.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You share His &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; function only by judging as HE does&hellip;
</div>

Well, you can only judge as He does by choosing not to validate your own
judgments anymore or to engage in making them anymore.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You share His function only by judging as HE does, reserving no judgment
at all unto yourselves.
</div>

Meaning neglecting to bother to exercise a right you think you have to
come to your own conclusions.

Now the way I said that, makes it sound like your right to come to your
own conclusions is, you know, not that big a deal. But as an orphan,
your right to make, to come to your conclusions is your primary
function. It&rsquo;s what ultimately makes you stand out from someone
else. It&rsquo;s what makes you valid&mdash;you think.

So your right to make judgments for yourself is something you place a
very high value on, and you work constantly to increase its value. And
so, to say, &ldquo;Abandon your right to come to your own
conclusions,&rdquo; well, we&rsquo;re talking about abandoning something
that is seemingly of ultimate importance to you. It&rsquo;s like
abandoning yourself. It&rsquo;s like letting yourself slip through the
cracks.

It&rsquo;s like annihilation of you&mdash;when all it is, is a letting
go of &ldquo;a blueprint&rdquo; that you put into place overlaying what
you Really Are, which is therefore covered up to you&mdash;what you
Really Are. It therefore doesn&rsquo;t constitute any real loss at all,
but it does constitute true gain.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You share His function only by judging as HE does&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; which means only as you let Him do it, and let His doing of it
register with you as your own doing of it truly.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; reserving no judgment at all unto yourselves.
</div>

Again, abandoning any right you think you have to come to judgments on
your own.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For you will judge AGAINST yourselves, but HE will judge FOR you.
</div>

The truth of this and the value of it become apparent to you every time
you manage to have even the smallest experience of virtue going out from
you. It confirms you to yourself in a new light, and you begin to
apparently change&mdash;which means you experience healing. You
experience being lifted out of the orphan blueprint, out of the
orphanage&mdash;beginning to realize you have a Birthright that you
don&rsquo;t have to create for yourselves, and it&rsquo;s a wonderful
Birthright, more awesome than anything you could have imagined. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Remember, then, that whenever you look without and react unfavorably to
what you see, you have judged yourself unworthy and have condemned
yourself to death.
</div>

Wow. Where did that come from? This is heavy stuff, right?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you have judged yourself unworthy and have condemned yourself
to death.
</div>

[small laugh] You say, &ldquo;I never did that!&rdquo; No, you did it
but you&rsquo;ve covered up the fact that you did it. And now the fact
that you did it, comes to you in very oblique ways, like in the saying:

&ldquo;There are only two sure things.&rdquo;

&ldquo;What?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Death and taxes. Right?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Oh, wow!&rdquo;

That&rsquo;s deeply ingrained. Everybody, whether they are familiar with
that phrase or not, there is some other phrase or some feeling that
conveys that meaning.

&ldquo;There&rsquo;s only one sure thing and that&rsquo;s death.&rdquo;

And you don&rsquo;t challenge it. You accept and you await it,
don&rsquo;t you? You don&rsquo;t like it, but you think you know that
there&rsquo;s nothing you can do about it.

You see, the minute you pull the cord out of the wall that&rsquo;s
connected to the light bulb, the light goes out. Right? The minute you
unplug yourself from the Father, the Light of the Father apparently goes
out and what&rsquo;s left has no means of supporting itself or of
performing its function. And so, no matter what you imagine you&rsquo;re
doing while you are unplugged, if you aren&rsquo;t doing anything to
become plugged in again, nothing will come of the effort. Zero will be
the result. That&rsquo;s death. Nothing will work. And the fact that
&ldquo;nothing is working&rdquo; will ultimately become apparent.
That&rsquo;s all it means.

So when you&rsquo;ve claimed that &ldquo;you&rsquo;re an
orphan&rdquo;&mdash;and I know you say, &ldquo;I never claimed
that&rdquo;&mdash;but you have claimed that &ldquo;you&rsquo;re just a
physical organism that arose out of physical evolution.&rdquo; That
blueprint, that idea, that concept with all of its ramifications and
your confirmation of them, constitutes an active disconnection from the
plug. And so you are, thereby, making the choice for death, making the
choice for the experience of nothing working, of everything coming to
nothing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The death penalty is the ego&rsquo;s ultimate goal&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and remember I&rsquo;ve referred to the ego as the
&ldquo;orphan mentality&rdquo; in the last few weeks. So the orphan
mentality, the unplugged light bulb has &ldquo;its incapacity to light
up&rdquo; as its ultimate goal to be finally realized&mdash;[laugh]
which means that &ldquo;that which finally realizes it&rdquo; realizes
that &ldquo;its capacity to realize it&rdquo; is nonexistent, and
therefore, even that &ldquo;seeming capacity&rdquo; will be
acknowledged, accepted, and it will be snuffed out&mdash;if such a thing
were possible.

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The death penalty is the ego&rsquo;s &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; or the orphan&rsquo;s &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; ultimate goal, for it fully believes that you &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; are a criminal, as deserving of death as God knows you are
deserving of life.
</div>

You all know, in other words, that you cannot ultimately succeed at
being independent of the Father. The only thing is that while
you&rsquo;re still trying, that&rsquo;s bad news. Once you&rsquo;ve
stopped trying and you&rsquo;re willing to re-embrace your Father,
it&rsquo;s the good news and it supports you in your walk Home.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The death penalty never leaves the ego&rsquo;s mind&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you know, if you had no concept of the things we&rsquo;ve been
talking about, you would walk around and although you wouldn&rsquo;t
think about it, the fact that &ldquo;one day you&rsquo;re going to
die&rdquo; would be present in your sense of your existence today. When
you&rsquo;re eighteen years old or twenty-five years old, or fifty or
sixty years old, and if you don&rsquo;t die a &hellip;
&mdash;isn&rsquo;t it a funny word?&mdash;a &ldquo;natural&rdquo; death
&hellip; if you don&rsquo;t die a &ldquo;natural&rdquo; death, well,
there could be tomorrow an &ldquo;accidental&rdquo; death. Right?
That&rsquo;s how devoted you are &ldquo;to death,&rdquo; or that&rsquo;s
how devoted to &ldquo;things not working&rdquo; the orphan mentality is
(or the ego).

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The death penalty never leaves the ego&rsquo;s mind, for that is what it
always reserves for you in the end. Wanting to kill you as the final
expression of its feeling for you, it lets you live but to await death.
</div>

To endure the experience of living until the inevitable happens.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It will torment you while you live&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what if you woke up in the morning aware that you
couldn&rsquo;t die&mdash;literally truly aware that you couldn&rsquo;t
die&mdash;and the experience of invulnerability was yours? I promise you
your sense of the coming day would be entirely different. And the way
you got out of bed might be [laughing] that you would leap out of bed,
instead of cautiously and sleepily putting your feet on the floor with
your hands still on the bed hoping that maybe you can lie back down and
not face the inevitable. You see?

So that&rsquo;s the torment. When you don&rsquo;t know and you
don&rsquo;t seem to have the experience of invulnerability available to
you, the way you live your days is in torment. It might not be
overwhelming, but it&rsquo;s a drudge. It&rsquo;s not fulfilling. You
are tormented.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It will torment you &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you will live in a tormented state.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; while you live, but its hatred is not satisfied until you die.
For your destruction is the one end toward which it works, and the only
end with which it will be satisfied.
</div>

I tell you that right now your life is eternal. Now it&rsquo;s eternal
whether you seem to put yourself through an experience called
&ldquo;death,&rdquo; or not. But I&rsquo;m saying that you are eternal
and there does not have to be any form of the experience of death. And
remember last week I pointed out that &ldquo;sickness in its various
degrees of seriousness&rdquo; are just &ldquo;lesser degrees of
death.&rdquo; It&rsquo;s your Birthright not to be experiencing any of
that.

You don&rsquo;t have to play the ego&rsquo;s game. You don&rsquo;t have
to play the game of being an orphan. And you no longer have to be
confident, excruciatingly confident that you will die. You don&rsquo;t
have to do it. You hear that? You don&rsquo;t have to do it. You
don&rsquo;t have to be devoted to that idea.

Now why am I saying this? I&rsquo;m saying this because in my telling
you that there&rsquo;s a way for you to experience your eternality and
your invulnerability, you are inclined to say: &ldquo;That&rsquo;s going
to be far too hard for me. You are asking me to stand taller than I can
possibly stand. You&rsquo;re asking me to be something I can&rsquo;t
possibly be without a great deal of energy and effort. And you know
what? I probably don&rsquo;t have enough years left in which to succeed.
I think I would rather stick with my present conviction and let the
process of death come upon me, because that I can make commitment to,
that I can justify.&rdquo; [Raj is laughing] &ldquo;I can&rsquo;t
justify being in the world in a way that no one but you, Jesus, have
managed to be. I can&rsquo;t justify it. I can&rsquo;t fathom it. I
don&rsquo;t believe that I can be only the second one ever to do
it.&rdquo;

You see? And what are you saying? You&rsquo;re saying, &ldquo;It&rsquo;s
easier for me to stay committed to death, and just let this terminal
disease called &lsquo;life&rsquo; play itself out.&rdquo; So
you&rsquo;ve taken the ego&rsquo;s bait, hook, line and sinker.

Again, earlier I said &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you have judged yourself unworthy and have condemned yourself
to death.
</div>

And at that point I said, well, you would say, &ldquo;I haven&rsquo;t
done that!&rdquo; But now you can see that at this very moment
you&rsquo;re willing to do that. You&rsquo;re willing to say, &ldquo;I
can&rsquo;t justify being only the second person in history, ever, to
not die. I can&rsquo;t believe it. It&rsquo;s just too impossible for me
to wrap my mind around.&rdquo; And so you&rsquo;re still condemning
yourself to death right this minute.

Now that&rsquo;s not punishable because [small laugh] the ignorant
experience of torment is hell enough, is punishment enough, but nobody
is laying it upon you. You&rsquo;re laying upon yourself by means of
your unwillingness to conceive of something greater than what you
already believe. That&rsquo;s all. And so, the Father isn&rsquo;t
judging you, and I&rsquo;m not judging you.

And I&rsquo;m not saying &ldquo;you&rsquo;re wrong&rdquo; and
&ldquo;what&rsquo;s wrong with you&rdquo; and so on. I&rsquo;m just
saying here is what you&rsquo;re doing, and you can do something
different. And I am encouraging you to do the something different, even
though it may make you stand out separate and apart from everyone else
until they get it. And they may get it because you stood out and did it
second. You see? But you&rsquo;ve got to stop condemning yourself to
death by being willing to conceive of yourself as being the second,
third, fourth, or fifth one to not apparently go through a death
process.

For many of you on the globe, it&rsquo;s already Easter morning. For
some of you, it&rsquo;s close to Easter morning. You could say that the
Truth that I&rsquo;ve been sharing with you, are the first rays of light
shining on you consciously&mdash;you know, in a way that is registering
with you. And it&rsquo;s a time that you can dare to not reconfirm your
commitment to death, and to come out of the tomb, to come out of the
orphanage, to come out of the ignorance.

Easter is about shifting your operating system. Easter is about you
being willing to conceive of yourself anew&mdash;not making up a
&ldquo;new you&rdquo; yourself, not being an orphan who has a more
creative way of not looking like an orphan&mdash;but you coming into a
&ldquo;newness of Mind&rdquo; which is an ancient or eternal awareness
of what you never really stopped being.

Now if you come out of the [tomb] early this coming morning, don&rsquo;t
worry. You are not going to appear to be an oddball. Nobody will shriek
when they see you, because you will naturally be utterly appropriate in
every situation. But I will tell you something, people will feel your
presence and feel safe. They will find in your presence, without even
being aware of it, that it&rsquo;s easier for them to love themselves.
And that will make them love you, except that they&rsquo;ll just say,
&ldquo;It is such a pleasure to be around so-and-so.&rdquo;

And virtue will go out from you. And the blessing that you give, you
will keep, because you let it in first by being willing to conceive that
you really can be and really are at this moment more than you think you
are. And that the blueprint of definitions, which you have wrapped
around yourselves, isn&rsquo;t true and therefore has no capacity to
bind you, although you have the capacity to hold it tightly to you.

So you can get up and be the meaning of Easter tomorrow morning. You
really can. [speaking to each person present] You &hellip; and you
&hellip; and you &hellip; and you &hellip; and you &hellip; and you
&hellip; and you &hellip; and you &hellip; and you &hellip; and you
&hellip; and you. You no longer have to judge yourself unworthy and
condemn yourself to death.

I think it was probably a surprise to you to realize that tonight you
all have a commitment to death, or you have had, because it has been
inconceivable to you, an overwhelming un-embrace-able idea that you
could be the second one not to die and not to be subject to
&ldquo;accidental&rdquo; death. And therefore, you won&rsquo;t embrace
&hellip; you won&rsquo;t &hellip; you&rsquo;ll play with the idea. Oh,
your minds are the biggest playgrounds that exist, where play and
nothing of consequence happens. You play with the idea, but that&rsquo;s
the way you confirm your commitment to death.

And so I encourage you this Easter morning to be willing to embrace the
impossible, to embrace the thing that you have thought was impossible,
and begin to let it in with some conscious, self-disciplined intent. And
renew that intent every morning by looking at the yellow sticky-note on
your refrigerator: leaven. And by asking when you go to bed at night,
&ldquo;Was there any point in the day where I experienced virtue go out
from me, where I was present in the world in a way that I didn&rsquo;t
use to be present in the world, in which a communion, a transactional
energetic involvement, movement of Love occurred, which blessed them and
blessed me and confirmed to me the divinity of Being?&rdquo; Because if
you have just one incident like that, you&rsquo;ve begun to move
mountains. You have begun to be the leaven that makes a much bigger
transformation than just the little one that it seemed it was for you.
And you begin to topple the first domino.

Happy Easter!

[^1]: T11.7 The Guide for Miracles

