---
title: Apr 29, 2006
ref: T11.7 The Guide for Miracles
alink: "/acim/text/11/chap1107/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who is joining us on the Internet.

Before Paul learned how to meditate he thought that to be conscious
meant to be thinking, and that the only time that thinking
wouldn&rsquo;t happen would be if he were unconscious, under anesthesia,
or asleep. Not having had any other kind of experience beside constantly
thinking while awake, he made the assumption that they were equivalent.
And he had never had any contrary experience. And then he learned how
mediate. And meditation, the practice of meditation took him into a
place where he was perfectly conscious but there wasn&rsquo;t a single
thought streaming through his mind. And so he became free of the idea
that being conscious was identical with thinking; that they were
inseparable and inextricably bound, if not one and the same thing.

Now in a similar manner Paul, along with everyone else, has grown up
having the experience of consciousness being a private experience. After
all, you each are the only ones occupying the experience of awareness
that you call &ldquo;being conscious.&rdquo; You think your thoughts. No
one else knows them. You have your feelings. Unless you express them
verbally, no one else knows what they are. And you never have an
experience, generally speaking, of feeling or experiencing another
presence in this arena of awareness that you&rsquo;re experiencing. And
so you have all assumed that this &ldquo;private experience of being
conscious&rdquo; is normal and is the totality of being conscious.

Now, we&rsquo;ve been discussing for a number of weeks now, the state of
being an orphan, of orphanhood&mdash;the experience of being independent
and private&mdash;and that, in effect, this state of orphanhood is quote
&ldquo;the problem of being&rdquo; unquote, and that the answer to the
problem is to break the privacy, to break the autonomy, to invite
something else in&mdash;the Holy Spirit, me, the Father&mdash;to break
the act of independence that none of you knew you were engaging in. And
we talked also about the experience of having virtue go out from you,
and that the only way you will have virtue go out from you is when you
have broken the independence. You&rsquo;ve negated the independence from
your Father that you set into place, and said, &ldquo;Father,
what&rsquo;s the Truth here? Fill me with what needs to be extended to
my Brother. Help me to care enough to be present with my Brother in ways
that allow virtue to go out from me.&rdquo;

Now all of you have your moments, we&rsquo;ll say, where you can be
really, really sweet and very kind and very thoughtful. And you can
relate to someone else with great care, and the caring is received and
felt by the person you&rsquo;re extending it to and they&rsquo;re
happier for it. But that does not necessarily constitute virtue going
out from you, because you as a well-developed little ego who has learned
exceptionally good manners and how to wrap people around your little
finger and how to cajole them into cooperation and feeling good even,
you can do all of this without abandoning your private state of
independence from the Father. You just are a really skilled, well, P.R.
orphan&mdash;really good at public relations. It&rsquo;s one of those
skills you&rsquo;ve gotten under your belt that makes you feel like you
are doing much better, and you are overcoming the negatives of
orphanhood, and establishing so that everyone else can recognize it that
you&rsquo;re a good person, that you have substance to you, that your
presence is meaningful.

So be alert when you go to bed at night and ask yourself whether virtue
has gone out from you, because if there have been apparently beneficial
interchanges with others during your day in which blessing seems to have
occurred and you had no experience of communion or joining with the
Father, virtue did not go out from you. And you need not to be fooled by
the harmony and sweetness and apparent benefit that occurred during your
day. It&rsquo;s important for you to know that virtue has not gone out
from you if virtue has not gone out from you, even though circumstances
may seem to reflect back to you that something wonderful happened. You
can get caught in behaviors of kindness and thoughtfulness and of
virtuousness that are acts, that are part of your repertoire as an
expanding and growing orphan. You see?

If the Father never came to your mind, if the Holy Spirit&mdash;that
which is nothing more than your right Mind&mdash;never came to your mind
during the daytime when all of these things were happening, virtue could
not have gone out from you. If you&rsquo;re not plugged in, nothing can
come through.

Now, before Paul learned how to meditate, if somebody had said to him,
&ldquo;You know, you can be conscious without thinking,&rdquo;
[laughing] he would have said, &ldquo;That&rsquo;s interesting news, but
it doesn&rsquo;t mean anything because I have never had the experience,
and I don&rsquo;t know how to have the experience of being conscious
without thinking.&rdquo;

And likewise you could all say: &ldquo;Well, it&rsquo;s very interesting
news that I have an eternal link with my Father in which there is
forever communion occurring and that I never have to experience being
alone. It&rsquo;s very interesting news that I have a Guide who is Awake
and therefore fully Christed. It&rsquo;s interesting news to know that
you, Jesus, are available to me and everyone else simultaneously, and
that I can experience you as a presence distinct from me, in the same
space that I experience and have always experienced me being. But
I&rsquo;ve never had the experience. And I don&rsquo;t know how to have
the experience. And I don&rsquo;t know if I want to have the experience
because it means that a lot of my fundamental premises for understanding
my life and the world will have to change. If I let you in, will you
leave? Or are you going to be there when I&rsquo;m sitting on the
toilet? Are you going to be there when I&rsquo;m making love with my
partner? You know, just how undefended, just how far do I have to go in
letting go of my autonomy and my independence and my right to the
privacy that I thought was &hellip; [small laugh] I thought it was a
given. I thought it was the way life is. My mind is private.&rdquo;

You see? Yes, to let the Father in as an experience in the space, for
lack of better words, in which you are conscious&mdash;in other words,
in your mind&mdash;to let the Father in, to let the Holy Spirit in, to
let me in, has significant &ldquo;life changing meaning;&rdquo; as much
meaning as someone who thought they were an orphan and had been raised
in an orphanage, as much meaning as it would have for an orphan who had
grown up in an orphanage to suddenly be confronted by a man who says
that he is that child&rsquo;s father.

&ldquo;But you can&rsquo;t be my father. I don&rsquo;t have a father. I
have been an orphan my whole life.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Yes. But I am your father. And circumstances caused us to become
separated, and I was told that you were dead, and I didn&rsquo;t know
that my son was living, and so I didn&rsquo;t search. But then I
discovered that, indeed, I had a son and he was alive, and so I&rsquo;ve
come.&rdquo;

That kind of news that the aloneness and the isolation of orphanhood
involved, that kind of news causes great reorientation to have to
happen.

&ldquo;Well, you know, I didn&rsquo;t like not having a father, but now
having a father introduces a whole new set of circumstances that I
haven&rsquo;t had to deal with, and now I&rsquo;m going to have to deal
with them. And I&rsquo;m not sure if I&rsquo;m ready to have a father.
What are going to expect of me? Are you going to want to talk three or
four times a week? Are you going to want to get together and go to
baseball games when I don&rsquo;t like to play baseball? Are you going
to expect me to call you? You know, you&rsquo;re showing up is throwing
my life topsy-turvy.&rdquo;

Well, certainly there is a certain amount of inconvenience at
discovering that you&rsquo;re not an orphan, but the experience, the
natural experience of family is returned to you, is returned to the
orphan. Connections that it was appropriate for him to have all of his
life, but which he had learned how to cope without having, are now
present for him. And part of the inconvenience of the adjustment is
going to involve letting that in; embracing it and being willing to
engage in communication, togetherness, relationship. You see?

Now what all of this is leading up to, there is a method to my &hellip;
there is a method afoot here. You hear the word
&ldquo;self-righteousness&rdquo; and &ldquo;self-righteous,&rdquo; and
you also hear the word &ldquo;righteous&rdquo;&mdash;&rdquo;Oh,
he&rsquo;s a self-righteous bastard&rdquo; or &ldquo;He&rsquo;s a very
righteous person&rdquo;&mdash;and I want you to become clearer about the
meaning of those words.

When you as a competent orphan, who is becoming increasingly competent
by the day, acts, makes decisions, authorizes things without ever once
having any conscious awareness of connection with his Source, not even
thinking that he has a Source, he is an unplugged light bulb pretending
to be illuminated. And so he is pretending to be something he
isn&rsquo;t. You are all pretending to be something that you
aren&rsquo;t when you are having no experience of union with your
Source, and are running around this planet with your cord and plug
hanging from your posterior, dragging behind you, thinking that
you&rsquo;re actually running around and doing things, when actually
nothing can be happening because the plug isn&rsquo;t plugged into the
socket. That&rsquo;s &ldquo;self-righteousness.&rdquo; You see?
It&rsquo;s a righteousness that is relative to capacities that you, as a
independent self, are engaged in.

Every act of an orphan who doesn&rsquo;t know of his Birthright, because
he doesn&rsquo;t know of his Father or of his Source, is engaged in acts
of self-preservation. Acts of self-preservation rather than just living
life, because not experiencing any Birthright, not having an experience
of a Father, there is automatically a feeling of vulnerability. An
unplugged light bulb can&rsquo;t help being bothered by the fact that
there&rsquo;s no light coming forth.

And so his experience is seen as one that is hostile, one that is
polarized&mdash;&rdquo;good&rdquo; and &ldquo;bad&rdquo; warring against
each other&mdash;and him learning how to be a better and better
&ldquo;good orphan&rdquo; having to battle against the &ldquo;bad
orphans.&rdquo; And as a result [small laugh] every act is an act of
defense.

If every act is an act of defense whether it&rsquo;s called for or not,
that is offensive, isn&rsquo;t it? It&rsquo;s an expression of arrogance
based upon incomplete information that will not necessarily fit the
circumstances. And there will always be a willingness for everyone that
orphan deals with to be used in a way that puts them at a disadvantage
if it serves the ego, the orphan, who is arrogantly trying to illuminate
himself without being plugged in.

Self-righteousness is unpleasant because it&rsquo;s an act of defense.
Self-righteousness is unpleasant because, at the bottom line, it&rsquo;s
an act of hate. I&rsquo;m putting it strongly. But if it isn&rsquo;t
love, it has to be &ldquo;not love.&rdquo; It has to be the opposite of
love. Now it can&rsquo;t be love because the orphan is incapable of
embrace, because if he were to embrace and include and truly let in and
relate to valuably, he would have to break his isolation. He would have
to abandon his orphanhood.

So, let&rsquo;s go to the word &ldquo;righteous.&rdquo; One might say
that Saint Francis of Assisi was a righteous man, or that Mother Theresa
was a righteous woman.

When one abandons the privacy and the autonomy and the arrogance of
being a self-authorizing presence, and does not lean unto his own
understanding, and does not lean unto his own memory, and does not lean
unto his own personally-developed skills&mdash;and he lets out a sigh
and relaxes, and allows his mind to go silent because he doesn&rsquo;t
want to be filled with himself&mdash;he doesn&rsquo;t want to be filled
with his best thoughts or his best judgments; he wants to be in the
silence so that he can listen because he is interested in letting in
something else, and the something else he wants to let in is the Father,
or his Guide, or the Holy Spirit, or me&mdash;he has or she has provided
the environment in which something new can be experienced. In the arena
of conscious awareness called &ldquo;being alive&rdquo; that each one
experiences, the Father can register with you. The Holy Spirit can
register with you. I can register with you. We can talk. We can relate
to each other.

In the absence of your assertive use of your mind&mdash;to fill it with
activity that covers up what can occur in the silence&mdash;the silence,
if you&rsquo;re willing to let yourself experience it, you will find is
very full. And it&rsquo;s very full of a new way of being with your
world and with your Brothers and Sisters. Paul is doing it right now.
When you do that, you are &ldquo;a righteous man&rdquo; or &ldquo;a
righteous woman,&rdquo; because there is no self-righteousness in it.
There is nothing present as an independent, authoritative,
self-determined agent that can accomplish anything.

And when righteousness occurs, virtue goes out from you and everyone is
truly blessed. Everyone. Not just you. Not just those who can hear my
voice on the internet, or eventually on a recording. Everyone. Everyone
everywhere. Virtue, when it goes out, touches everyone. Love allowed to
move is an infinite movement, and those who are Awake experience it, are
consciously aware of it.

Now, you might say: &ldquo;God, what hope is there for me? Obviously, I
have been taught everything wrong! My whole basis for perceiving
everything is a result of false teaching, incorrect teaching. And it is
so much a part of me that the very idea of actually experiencing someone
else in the same space I&rsquo;m in, in my mind, is inconceivable to me.
And yet you&rsquo;re telling me that that&rsquo;s what is normal, and
that the privacy I&rsquo;ve been experiencing is unnatural, and that the
effort I put to &ldquo;being private well&rdquo; is an attack on God and
is an attack on myself. I have reason to be eternally depressed. How can
I possibly &hellip; how can I possibly overturn everything I&rsquo;ve
ever learned? How can I possibly overturn everything about the way I
experience everything? You have presented me with a real problem. If
I&rsquo;m not going to be mad at myself for being led into this,
I&rsquo;m going to be mad at those who led me into it.&rdquo;

Yeah, you could do that. Or you could say, &ldquo;Wow! If I&rsquo;m
seeing everything incorrectly, if I&rsquo;m not perceiving anything as
it is, that means I have a lot of discoveries in front of me. It means I
have a lot of opportunities to see things in a new way. And every time
there&rsquo;s an improved shift of perception, my experience is going to
change for the better. And I&rsquo;m going to get feedback that confirms
to me that my Birthright really was to be joined, and that what Raj has
been saying is True.&rdquo;

As bad as the news might be, if someone doesn&rsquo;t tell you
you&rsquo;re off the track, you will forever be off the track. And you
won&rsquo;t know it. That&rsquo;s hell.

So the way out of the dilemma of having been taught &ldquo;how to
perceive everything wrong&rdquo; is simple. Remember that there is a
God. Be willing to consider that there is actually a God, and that God
is the Source of your Being. God is what is presencing you right now.
You are not the source of your Being. You are not the creator of you.
You, through your skills, are not what can refine you into something
better. You are not alone and you&rsquo;re not responsible for yourself.
You&rsquo;re not responsible for your existence. You are responsible for
the quality of your existence.

And the quality of your existence will be governed by the degree to
which you are attempting to be an illuminated light bulb without the
plug being plugged in, or the degree to which you are illuminated
because you said, &ldquo;Arhh! Even though I will obviously have a
tether if I plug that plug in, I am going to choose to pull it in so
that I may become illuminated, and therefore fulfill my Purpose for
Being.&rdquo; Because the fact is that when you fulfill your Purpose for
Being, there will be so much more illuminated to you of the infinite
nature of your Being, and that to be joined doesn&rsquo;t constitute a
tethering, but a grounding in the infinite, if I may put it that way. A
grounding in your Wholeness. A grounding in knowing who and what you
Are.

And who and what you Are is that which is one with the Father, and we
can use the word &ldquo;co-creator&rdquo; in the sense that once
you&rsquo;re plugged in, you stand with God, on behalf of what God is
being, without any longer attempting to introduce anything original,
different from what the Father is being, into the Movement of Creation.
Then &ldquo;All that Creation is&rdquo; becomes your conscious
experience, down to the smallest detail, so much so that if you were
Awake right now experiencing yourself infinitely, you would feel the
virtue going out from Paul at this moment. Everyone who is Awake is
experiencing it. That&rsquo;s how untethered you will become if you dare
to plug the plug in. You will be anchored in the Truth of your Being.
You will be anchored in your Sanity.

And that&rsquo;s the good news. And that&rsquo;s why I&rsquo;m going to
suggest that you all keep that little, yellow, sticky paper on your
refrigerator that has the word &ldquo;leaven.&rdquo; I know, you forgot
to put it up. Put it up! You might even put it on the dashboard of your
car, and have it in two places. And you might put it on the wall next to
your toilet, and have it in three places to remind you that you have a
function and that is to glorify God.

And if you are willing to let God in so that many times during the day
you remember not to pick up the glass of water or not to drive down the
road without consciously saying, &ldquo;Hi, Father. Hi, God. Hi, Raj.
Hi, Jesus,&rdquo; and remind yourself that at that moment you&rsquo;re
not alone, and you are acknowledging that you are being companioned with
whether you&rsquo;re having a direct experience of it or not.
That&rsquo;s a good way to begin, with the reminder that, literally, you
are not alone and that a living, active Presence is present with you for
the purpose of loving you out of your illusions, for the purpose of
loving you out of the misperception of you being a little, mortal,
physical body sitting inside of a hunk of rather-interestingly-designed
metal traveling down a road to get some place where you aren&rsquo;t,
even though you are omnipresent. You see?

Those who are companioning with you are there to help you see everything
in a new way. But in order to have the transformation of your mind in
which you are experiencing everything&mdash;the world&mdash;in a new way
that is a closer approximation of the Kingdom of Heaven, you are going
to have to stop valuing your authority and your confidence to handle
this by yourself. Because maybe you can get from here to there with a
fair amount of safety by using your acquired skills and intelligence,
but you are still going to think you are an orphan moving from one point
in space to another point in space. And you will continue not to have
the experience of both points of space being embraced in you, and you
could move from one to the other by a simple shift of attention, because
you are infinite, you are divine, you are invulnerable. You aren&rsquo;t
what you thought you&rsquo;ve been.

As you do this, as you make a point of conscientiously doing this many
times a day, ongoingly, just because, you will find yourself in the
place where I, or the Father, or the Holy Spirit, can address you
directly and guide you through a circumstance or a situation that
you&rsquo;re in where help is needed, or you will find us able to convey
to you a perspective that will help you relate to your Brother in a more
truly helpful way than anything you might have thought up by yourself.
And you will know that you were not alone in the receipt and delivery of
the answer or the remarks you make to your Brother in the middle of that
situation. And in that conscious awareness of union, virtue will be
going out from you and you will feel it. You will feel the holiness of
it. You will feel the wholeness of it. You will feel the way every part
of what happened fit together exquisitely. And you will know that you
are in the flow of the movement of Love&mdash;a co-creator with God.

So don&rsquo;t be depressed because you&rsquo;ve been so badly in the
dark. There is a simple way out and that is to undo the bill of
divorcement that started it all where you said, &ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;d
rather see it my way.&rdquo; And you undo that, as I&rsquo;ve said
before, by inviting the Father in. And now I&rsquo;ve made it clear that
you can do it by reminding yourself while you&rsquo;re driving, or
engaging in any activity, that you&rsquo;re not alone.

Remind yourself that there are those who are companioning with you, who
have your ultimate welfare and interest in mind for you. This will help
break down the confidence you have that you are alone, just like
meditating and having moments of silence, where you are perfectly and
exquisitely conscious without any thoughts, causes the undoing of your
confidence that consciousness and thinking are one and the same thing;
inseparable. And so there is a movement in your Being, you could
say&mdash;an undoing.

You don&rsquo;t have to tackle every single misperception. All you have
to do is undo the one thing that started it all, which was where you
said, &ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;m going this way and doing it my way, and
seeing it the way I want, and calling it what I say it is.&rdquo; You
see? And inviting the Father back in, inviting these Awake Companions
back in.

Let&rsquo;s go to the book.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego is not a traitor to God to Whom treachery is impossible, but it
IS a traitor to you who believe YOU have been treacherous to your
Father.[^1]
</div>

Well, again, what&rsquo;s the ego? The orphan mentality.

It&rsquo;s not a traitor to God to Whom treachery is impossible, but it
is a traitor to you who believe you have been treacherous to your
Father, even though you may not remember having said, &ldquo;Father,
I&rsquo;d rather see it my way,&rdquo; and that you had engaged in a
denial of God and His Fatherhood of you. You do experience being an
orphan, together with all the vulnerabilities that accompany it. And you
don&rsquo;t like it. And the reason you don&rsquo;t like it, is because
down deep you know this is not your Birthright. You know it is not
natural to you, and therefore you cannot embrace it totally.

But, nevertheless, the orphan mentality is a traitor to you, because it
keeps you&mdash;you keep yourself&mdash; distracted from the Truth about
you by continually reinforcing the orphan state of mind. And it always
has a willing ear in you, because you know something is wrong and you
don&rsquo;t know what it is, and the ego says, &ldquo;I know how to make
you feel better. What you need is more power. What you need is more
authority. What you need is more skill. What you need is the ability to
finesse your Brother into behaving in a way that serves you, even if it
costs him everything.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego is not a traitor to God to Whom treachery is impossible, but it
IS a traitor to you who believe YOU have been treacherous to your
Father. That is why the UNDOING of guilt is an essential part of the
Holy Spirit&rsquo;s teaching. For as long as you feel guilty you are
listening to the voice of the ego, which tells you that you HAVE been
treacherous to God and therefore DESERVE death.
</div>

Now as I said last week, the ego isn&rsquo;t always that forthright. It
doesn&rsquo;t say, &ldquo;You deserve death.&rdquo; It says, [whispering
at first] &ldquo;Listen to me. It&rsquo;s impossible for you to believe
that you won&rsquo;t die. You hear that. It&rsquo;s impossible for you
to believe that you won&rsquo;t die. It&rsquo;s impossible for you to
believe that you are eternal and will live forever. It&rsquo;s
impossible for you to believe that you will be only the second one in
all of history who will not die.&rdquo; You see? [small laugh] It
doesn&rsquo;t say, &ldquo;You deserve death!&rdquo; [laughing] But it
convinces you that you don&rsquo;t deserve anything else, so that you
don&rsquo;t resist, you don&rsquo;t resist death. That slippery
character.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You will think that death comes from God and NOT from the ego because,
by confusing yourself WITH the ego, you believe that YOU want death.
</div>

You see? &ldquo;I and my ego are one. I and my ego are one. I are my
ego. My ego are me. We&rsquo;re one and the same, like thinking and
consciousness are one and the same. I and my ego are one.&rdquo; You
see? You&rsquo;re confused. That&rsquo;s all that means. You&rsquo;re
confused.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You will think that death comes from God and NOT from the ego because,
by confusing yourself WITH the ego, you believe that YOU want death.
</div>

Well, [laughing] you also believe that you can&rsquo;t live forever.
That&rsquo;s the flip side of the coin that you believe you want death.
But you don&rsquo;t like to look at it square in the face and see that
the belief says, &ldquo;You want death.&rdquo; It says something a
little bit more pointed and more awful than you can&rsquo;t believe that
you will live forever.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And from what you want God does NOT save you.

When you are tempted to yield to the desire for death &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; when you are tempted to yield to the idea that you can&rsquo;t
live forever. When you are tempted to yield to the idea that you
can&rsquo;t possibly be only the second one in all of history that
doesn&rsquo;t die.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; REMEMBER THAT I DID NOT DIE.
</div>

It doesn&rsquo;t matter what all the justifications are that your ego or
your orphan mentality can come up with for not embracing the Truth.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; REMEMBER THAT I DID NOT DIE.
</div>

You see? And as I&rsquo;ve said before, if you want to look at it this
way, think of the odds I had to overcome when no one had ever done it
before. You see? It is rather nonsensical, but you need to see, you need
to see it with a light heart so that you can just go ahead and dare to
say, &ldquo;I dare to be willing to believe that I can be and will be
the second person not to die.&rdquo;

Now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you are tempted to yield to the desire for death REMEMBER THAT I
DID NOT DIE. You will realize that this is true when you look within and
SEE me.
</div>

Ah! You see, when you&rsquo;re willing to plug your plug back in,
something more than you expected comes. You get to have, for example, a
direct experience of me&mdash;not some idea about some figure in history
that was written about in the Bible that now you can talk about and
think about&mdash;but a direct experience of me.

You get a direct experience of me, and thereby you get a direct
experience of the fact that life is eternal, because I still am, and I
am with you, and I can relate to you and you can relate to me, which
means that whatever this dividing line is between where you think you
are and where you think I am&mdash;having passed on or whatever&mdash;is
not as solid as you thought, is not as valid as you thought.

You see, dominoes are beginning to fall. Other aha&rsquo;s are beginning
to happen. You get more than you bargained for. You get more good than
you were asking for, because all you were willing to do was to say,
&ldquo;I&rsquo;m willing to plug the plug back in and let God back in,
change my behavior enough to invite Him, or Jesus, or my Guide, into my
conscious experience of Being numerous times during the day.&rdquo; Just
a simple willingness to invite them in and you get so much more, that
grounds you for even more.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Would I have overcome death for myself alone? And would eternal life
have been given me of the Father UNLESS he had also given it to you?
When you learn to make ME manifest YOU will never see death.
</div>

How do you make me manifest? You make me manifest in the space that you
thought &ldquo;you alone&rdquo; were occupying. You invite me in. And
you let me respond to you where you have believed no one else could ever
respond because you were the only one occupying that territory, and you
thought that was normal. And so you actually have blocked there being
any experience of any of the rest of the Brotherhood who it is your
Birthright to be experiencing intimately constantly and fully and
wholly.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you learn to make ME manifest YOU will never see death. For you
will have looked upon the deathless &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; where?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; in YOURSELF&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in yourself&mdash;meaning in that place where you thought you
were the only one occupying that place. You are full &hellip; [laughing]
you are full of the infiniteness of the Creation of God, including all
of the Brotherhood, and each of the Brothers in the Brotherhood is full
of the fullness of God, including you.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you learn to make ME manifest YOU will never see death. For you
will have looked upon the deathless in YOURSELF, and you will see only
the eternal as you look out upon a world that CANNOT die.
</div>

Wow! Something else you hadn&rsquo;t bargained for gets added in there.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you will see only the eternal as you look out upon &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what? The world.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; a world &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; everything. The world and universe. Everything that has been
included in your conscious awareness.

You will &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; look out upon a world that CANNOT die.
</div>

And it cannot die because you&rsquo;re going to be recognizing it as
Creation, with a capital &ldquo;C&rdquo;&mdash;the visibility and
tangibility of the Movement of God as Mind, that you are not separate
from, and that, therefore, is the Truth about you in your totality, your
infinite totality that is all-inclusive and not the least bit private.

Again, how do you undo all of this false training that has lead you to
[laughing] almost total misperception of what&rsquo;s really going on?
By breaking the isolation that brought it all on in the beginning. And
you break the isolation by inviting God, or me, or the Holy Spirit, or
your Guide, in. In where? Into the space you thought you had been
occupying totally and exclusively.

You know the saying, &ldquo;I stand at the door and knock. Let me
in.&rdquo; Let your right Mind in. Let God in. Invite us in. Make room
for us. Being willing to entertain us. Being willing to host us in your
space&mdash;in you. You see? And I mean, literally, let us be with you
and converse with you. Let us relate to you in all of the ways that you
already understand relating to another. You know, we can argue. And I
know we will. We can agree. We can discuss. You can tell me the way you
see it, and I&rsquo;ll tell you the way it is. And you can say,
&ldquo;Yes, but &hellip; &rdquo; and I will say, &ldquo;Well, yes, but,
let&rsquo;s look at it this way.&rdquo; And I, we, all of those who
stand in your service, will do this until you are satisfied with the
Truth. Let&rsquo;s begin a conversation. Let&rsquo;s begin a
relationship, or let us continue our relationship with a little more
consistency and little more frequency.

This is the way you overcome death. This is the way you avoid the
ultimate realization that, as a light bulb that is not plugged in, you
have no function, and if you have no function, you don&rsquo;t exist.
What a final revelation that is. Snuff! There ya went&mdash;if that
could happen. But that&rsquo;s where self-righteousness and that&rsquo;s
where the orphan mentality and that&rsquo;s where the ego would lead
you.

I&rsquo;m going to tell you something; I&rsquo;m going to tell all of
you something. Your skill&mdash;and I say it with a broad
smile&mdash;your skill at being a &ldquo;better and better ego&rdquo; is
going to begin to fail. We&rsquo;re getting closer to the time of
Awakening. More and more Brothers are Awakening. The ease with which you
continue to dream is diminishing. And where things used to work real
well because you were so skilled at being the best damn orphan there
ever was, will not work like it used to. And of course, if you persist,
it will get worse, because the ability to maintain a viable, workable,
functional sense of orphanhood won&rsquo;t be able to withstand the loss
in the ranks of orphans that used to hold it together because of group
consensus.

In the absence of power that you thought you had and that you used to be
able to successfully exercise, you will find yourself coming closer and
closer to the point of saying, &ldquo;Help! Is there anyone at the door?
Is there anyone out there? Help! I&rsquo;m willing to try not doing it
all by myself.&rdquo; And some righteousness will have crept into the
picture. And self-righteousness will have diminished. And in the
presence of righteousness, the inflow of God&rsquo;s Love will occur,
and you will receive it and it will overflow from you and virtue will go
out from you and everyone will be blessed.

Righteousness and humility go hand in hand. And humility, true humility
cannot be feigned. It has to be allowed. It cannot be authorized. It
must be allowed.

So, I must add one more thing. You can go to the store and buy yeast and
you can end up with a package that is too old. And you make a loaf of
bread with it and the bread just sogs in the bottom of the pan, because
there is no life. The yeast, the leaven has nothing to &hellip; no
capacity to fulfill a function.

What I want you to know is that those of you who have been listening to
me and who have attempted&mdash; whether you have felt it has been
totally successful or not&mdash;to be the leaven in your day, your
successes have been felt. And I must feed back to you that even though
you, most of you, feel that you failed miserably, you did not fail
miserably. Keep that yellow sticky-note on your refrigerator and
persist, because the way you undo an old habit is to persist, persist,
persist in the motions of a new habit.

Okay.

I love you all. I am persisting with you. And I will forever persist
with you until we can just be together, without your being on your way
Home, because you will know that you are Home and won&rsquo;t be arguing
against it any longer. So, I look forward to being with all of you next
week. And I love you.

Okay.

[^1]: T11.7 The Guide for Miracles

