---
title: May 6, 2006
ref: "T11.8 Reality and Redemption"
alink: "/acim/text/11/chap1108/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

I am&mdash;as I think you&rsquo;re all well aware&mdash;making a point
of bringing what we find in the Course into and relative to
everyone&rsquo;s daily experience; getting it out of the realm of theory
and platitudes and wonderful, blissful thoughts. We talked last week
about the difference between righteousness and self-righteousness. And
so we&rsquo;re going to consider self-righteousness a little bit further
tonight.

Usually when you think of self-righteousness or a self-righteous person,
you think of someone with their nose stuck up in the air, haughty,
self-assured, behaving as though he or she is superior to everyone else,
and letting everyone else know. It is arrogance personified. It is the
orphan attempting to behave as though he or she is not an orphan, with
gusto.

But there&rsquo;s another kind of self-righteousness. And I will say,
first of all, that maybe none of you walk around with your nose up in
the air all the time, but there are many moments when your nose suddenly
comes to attention and struts itself. And so you can relate to what
I&rsquo;m talking about. There&rsquo;s another kind of
self-righteousness that you might not associate with the word
&ldquo;self-righteous&rdquo; and it&rsquo;s depression.

Depression doesn&rsquo;t seem to be arrogant. It doesn&rsquo;t parade
itself like the first examples. It feels like a lack of energy. And
buoyant or active or aggressive actions don&rsquo;t come forth from you
when you&rsquo;re feeling depressed. Sometimes you don&rsquo;t even
identify it as depression. You just say, &ldquo;I&rsquo;m having a down
day,&rdquo; and you don&rsquo;t give it a name. Or you&rsquo;re going
through your day and suddenly it&rsquo;s like all the wind goes out of
your sails and something just came over you; the blues hit you. And you
just sort of flow with it without identifying it. But the fact is that
it is depression. And also the fact is that it is self-righteousness in
action. Just be with that for a minute.

You are never blue for no reason. You&rsquo;re never depressed for no
reason. In one way or another, you are depressed because things
aren&rsquo;t working out the way you want them to work out and you are
pissed. Always accompanying depression is anger. Always.

Now you can be depressed, or you can become depressed, if you&rsquo;ve
been trying to get touch with your Guide and you haven&rsquo;t been able
to. You can be sorry, you can be sad, you can be depressed, because
something that I&rsquo;ve been telling you, you need to do and that all
of you have the capacity to do, you aren&rsquo;t finding the truth of.
You aren&rsquo;t having the experience. And you are frustrated.
Frustration is a lesser form of anger, a more delicate form of anger,
but it is anger nevertheless.

And when you become depressed, what happens? Well, because
depression/anger is a form of defense, you become more private,
don&rsquo;t you? You are willing to extend almost nothing to anyone or
anything. &ldquo;Well, I&rsquo;m feeling so blue I just don&rsquo;t have
the gumption to extend. Nothing seems worth it.&rdquo; And there you are
embodying pure orphanhood. What you don&rsquo;t see is that this is
arrogance also, because you are aggressively defensive by being
ultra-passive, by not being available to extend, by not being available
to participate.

You make a statement of privacy that everyone can feel. And so a
statement has been made. An act has been expressed. In what way is it
self-righteous? It is self-righteous because it is perhaps one of the
purest forms of separation, not just from God, but from your world and
from your fellowman. It is an almost pure act of independence. Again, it
is almost a pure act of independence.

What happens when you&rsquo;re depressed? Nothing looks good; not even a
tree or a bird singing registers with you and makes your heart sing. You
might even want the bird to shut up. The sun shining depresses you
further, because you can&rsquo;t relate to it. Someone calls on the
phone. &ldquo;Oh, I don&rsquo;t want to talk to anybody right now.
I&rsquo;m not going to let them disturb my misery. I refuse to be
distracted from my devotion to my suffering.&rdquo; You see? You see how
private, how independent it is? And how aggressive it is, because it
takes every single stimulus from your world and rejects it; flat out
rejects it? And it&rsquo;s not sloppy about the manner in which it
rejects it; it rejects it all. That is far from passive.

When you are depressed, there is something that goes out of the window
in you, and that something is generosity. There is not only an
unwillingness to be generous, the word doesn&rsquo;t even come to your
mind. You are not willing to be generous in the sense of extending the
benefit of the doubt to a Brother or Sister. You&rsquo;re not willing to
be generous and to acknowledge what a beautiful day it is. You are not
willing to be generous enough to appreciate the generosity of a Brother
or a Sister. In fact, if while you&rsquo;re in this frame of mind
somebody close to you is busy being magnanimously generous, it depresses
you even more. It actually angers you more, because the contrast is
sitting there staring you in the face, emphasizing the awfulness of
where you are.

Now, I&rsquo;m not going to ask you to answer this question out loud,
but I want you to think for a moment and think of one word that
epitomizes the word &ldquo;generous,&rdquo; other than the word
&ldquo;generous.&rdquo; I will say I want you to think of a word that
maximally, totally epitomizes the meaning of the word
&ldquo;generous.&rdquo; It&rsquo;s probably a word you&rsquo;ve never
thought to associate with the word &ldquo;generous.&rdquo; [pause] Okay,
the word is &ldquo;God.&rdquo;

What do you think Creation is? An act of generosity. An extension of
what God is, infinitely, without reservation. An act of generosity that
is eternal, and asks for nothing in return, because the making of the
extension is the fullness of the fulfillment of Being. Creation is
generosity embodied. &ldquo;God being&rdquo; is generosity moving. So
now let&rsquo;s bring it home. If God is generosity moving and if you
are the expression of God, then the fulfillment of your Being is found
in your generosity.

For &hellip; I was going to say months. For years we&rsquo;ve been
reading this book, and the word &ldquo;extension&rdquo; comes up, like I
will extend it to you, I will extend it to you, extension, extension.
You know what? You can pass a glass of water to somebody and extend a
thirst-quencher to them without being generous.

Ah, but you&rsquo;re with someone and you notice them clearing their
throat or behaving in a manner that indicates that perhaps a glass of
water would be helpful. Generosity has already been expressed, because
you&rsquo;ve been willing to pay attention to them and notice the need,
before you even walk to the tap and fill a glass of water and bring it
to them. You have engaged in the act of caring. That&rsquo;s a generous
act. And then you&rsquo;ve noticed a need and then you&rsquo;ve said,
&ldquo;Would you like a glass of water?&rdquo; as you get up to go get
one and bring one. Generosity has occurred because Love has been
embodied in the caring that caused you to notice the need before they
even asked.

On the other hand, if you haven&rsquo;t noticed and they do ask for a
glass of water, you can get it for them and give it to them generously.
Or you can think, &ldquo;Can&rsquo;t he see that I&rsquo;m busy doing
something right now? He could get it himself. But I&rsquo;ll go get
it.&rdquo; And you get it for him and there&rsquo;s nothing generous
about any of it.

Generosity embodies Love. Generosity involves getting outside of your
self. Generosity means getting out of self-righteousness.

You see, self-righteous says, &ldquo;He can get it himself. Can&rsquo;t
he see he&rsquo;s disturbing me. Important me doing important things,
and him having an unimportant need that he could take care of
himself.&rdquo; You see? Well, there&rsquo;s depression for you. Whether
it&rsquo;s recognized or not, there&rsquo;s depression and
self-righteousness.

Now as you think back over the past weeks and months, we have been
talking about shifting your attention outside of your present sense of
yourself; the present boundaries that you think identify you.
We&rsquo;ve talked about stepping outside, reaching beyond those
boundaries, and inviting something else in. This is the beginning of
generosity, because it&rsquo;s the willingness to abandon your privacy,
your autonomy. It expresses your willingness to be inclusive. And in the
willingness to be inclusive, you are extending an invitation to be
joined by something else. And that extension is an act of generosity. It
is a generous, rather than a selfish, thing to do.

And so I want you to give some attention this week to the word
&ldquo;generous.&rdquo; And now when you go to bed at night, instead of
asking whether virtue has gone out from you, I want you to ask,
&ldquo;Has generosity characterized my day? Have I engaged in being
truly generous? Have I let someone else be on my mind? Have I extended
care, caring? And have I responded when a need was recognized?&rdquo;

Sounds like work, huh? It&rsquo;s going to require more attention than
you&rsquo;re used to giving, because it&rsquo;s so easy just to be
private and sort of go through your day on automatic with appropriate
responses that don&rsquo;t really require you to come out of your
privacy; certainly not to the degree where when you are present with
others, you are actively engaged in recognizing their presence,
recognizing what&rsquo;s going on with them, seeing if there is a need,
and fulfilling it to the best of your ability. You&rsquo;re not used to
doing that. You are all much more self-centered. And I promise you that
it is to the degree that you are self-centered that you are miserable.
It&rsquo;s very simple.

&ldquo;Oh, but look at what&rsquo;s happened in my life. Look at the
circumstances I&rsquo;m in. I have reason to be miserable. I have reason
to be depressed.&rdquo; Oh, well, there you are, acting out
self-centeredness, aren&rsquo;t you? &ldquo;I, I, I.&rdquo; But what
you&rsquo;re overlooking is the fact that your misery is inseparable
from your preoccupation with yourself, and your circumstances and how
unfair everything is. And you, in your private silence, are going to
hold the world and everyone in it hostage by not joining with them, by
not being with them, by not participating with them. The epitome of
orphanhood.

If you want to be happy, find that in you which is generous whether you
feel like it or not. Because I promise you, you will not feel like being
generous until you abandon your devotion to your self-righteous privacy.

This is all we&rsquo;ve been talking about as we&rsquo;ve gone through
the Course. Where are we? We&rsquo;re in a chapter called,
&ldquo;God&rsquo;s Plan For Salvation.&rdquo; Whose salvation? Your
salvation. And what is God&rsquo;s Plan for your salvation? God&rsquo;s
Plan for your salvation is that you say, &ldquo;Father, help!&rdquo;
Simple. Invite something in that is beyond your best reasoning, your
best judgments, your pet theories, and your favorite definitions of
everything. God&rsquo;s Plan for your salvation is that you reach out to
the Holy Spirit, which is nothing more than your right Mind, and let in
the &ldquo;more of you&rdquo; than you have been allowing to register
with you; the infiniteness of you that you have been ignoring in favor
of your very tiny well-developed definitions of yourselves that you have
created. That&rsquo;s God&rsquo;s Plan for salvation.

God&rsquo;s Plan for salvation is for you to open up to the generosity
of Being, the generosity of God, and claim God to be your Father, your
Source, so that you might, in letting Him in, find the Truth about you,
which is your generousness that you find yourself infilled with and that
you can&rsquo;t hold on to, that will overflow and be extended because
Love is alive in you.

You see, each week I&rsquo;m turning your attention to your fellowman,
I&rsquo;m turning your attention to the Father, and I&rsquo;m saying
bring the Father and your fellowman into the picture, and let the Father
infill you with that which He would reveal to you about Himself as it
relates to you, which is totally, so that you might thereby have a
spontaneous unwithholdable gift to extend to your Brother in the
acknowledgment of what&rsquo;s True about him to him. We&rsquo;re
breaking the isolation, but it&rsquo;s got to happen right where you
are, with the people you&rsquo;re dealing with. They are your workspace,
you might say, or, in happier terms, they are your playground in which
to play divinity, in which to play what is True, so that it might
register with you and illuminate you so that your illumination
illuminates things for others. Breaking the isolation is what it&rsquo;s
all about.

So this week, the word is &ldquo;generous.&rdquo; Not generosity. You
can talk about generosity, but you must be generous. You get it?
Don&rsquo;t waste a moment contemplating and thinking about generosity.
That&rsquo;s thinking about &ldquo;what it means&rdquo; to be generous.
It doesn&rsquo;t &ldquo;mean&rdquo; anything to be generous because the
focus there is on the meaning. &ldquo;What does it mean?&rdquo;
&ldquo;Mmm. Well, let me see here. I think it means this, or I think it
means that.&rdquo; And you&rsquo;re off the beam. You&rsquo;ve lost the
point.

I want you to be with the word &ldquo;generous&rdquo; relative to you.
&ldquo;Am I being generous? Do I feel generous right now?&rdquo;

And if you don&rsquo;t, you may know that you are engaged in something
that is causing you to be depressed. You are engaged in something that
is at odds with your nature. And you need to get out of it, because you
need to shift into being generous, feeling generous, and engaging
in&mdash;not generosity&mdash;in being, engaging in being generous. And
if you simply find it too difficult to do&mdash;which means if you find
that it is much more satisfying to be pissed off and therefore depressed
than to let in the littlest bit of generosity&mdash;ask the Holy Spirit
for help, ask the Father for help to get you over the hump, to
illuminate in you some little point of light of generosity so that you
may take hold of it and let it be in you and find expression.

Don&rsquo;t go through your days being unable to be generous. Generous
doesn&rsquo;t mean handing out money. Generous means acknowledging the
person that is in front of you or the person that is next to you. Be
aware they are there. You can walk through a grocery store or a checkout
line, where people are all around you, and you don&rsquo;t have the
faintest idea who is next to you, whether they&rsquo;re male or female,
because your blinders are on. And you are thinking about what
you&rsquo;ve got to do after you leave the store, and you&rsquo;re
watching the cashier, and maybe you&rsquo;re watching the person ahead
of you to see if they&rsquo;re delaying you, but that&rsquo;s about it.

To be truly generous means to be experiencing what I&rsquo;m going to
call &ldquo;full open consciousness&rdquo;&mdash;not closed-down
consciousness&mdash;full open, letting it all register with you. Letting
yourself be present with it all. That&rsquo;s being generous.

Being generous is giving the benefit of the doubt. Being generous is
noticing when it is sunny and bright, and a beautiful spring day with
all of the flowers blossoming, and all of the leaves coming out on the
trees, and all of the wonderful subtle shades of green that are there in
fresh spring colors. And letting your heart respond. That&rsquo;s being
generous.

Let&rsquo;s go to the book.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*Reality and Redemption*[^1]
</div>

It&rsquo;s a good choice of words. Reality and redemption are
inseparable from each other.

When something is redeemed, it&rsquo;s brought back to its original
state, its original perfect state. Your willingness to see Reality as it
is, means that you are being generous enough to be undefended against
the experience of what Reality is. You are extending an invitation to
experience it &ldquo;as it is,&rdquo; in spite of what you have believed
it was.

Reality and redemption are inseparable. Not just your redemption, but
the redemption of everything in your experience. Why is it redeemed?
Because it had to go through a redemptive process? No. It is redeemed
because you are allowing &ldquo;what it has always been&rdquo; to
register with you.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Do you REALLY believe that you can kill the Son of God?
</div>

More of these stark terms.

Do you really believe that you can be an orphan? If you do, then, in
effect, you are snuffing out the Son of God by saying, &ldquo;I&rsquo;m
no Son of God. I&rsquo;m an orphan.&rdquo; And apparently then, the Son
of God has been killed because you&rsquo;re so damned determined to be
an orphan, and to be it better and better and better.

Do you really believe that you can do away with or kill the Son of God?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Father has hidden His Son safely within Himself and kept him far
away from your destructive thoughts&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your determination to be the best damned orphan there ever was
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; but YOU know neither the Father nor the Son &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that you really Are &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; because of them.
</div>

Now let me read that again.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Father has hidden His Son safely within Himself and kept him far
away from your destructive thoughts, but YOU know neither the Father nor
the Son because of them.
</div>

Because of your determination to see things your way, you&rsquo;ve lost
your awareness of Who your Father is, and you&rsquo;ve lost the
awareness of what you truly Are. And so the Father and the Son are
unknown to you, because you are going to be the best damned orphan there
ever was.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You attack the real world every day and every hour and every minute, and
yet you are surprised that you cannot see it.
</div>

Well, how do you attack the world? You know. By providing your own
definitions of it, and believing your definitions, and choosing to
ignore what it really is. It&rsquo;s that simple. And yet you are
surprised that you cannot see the real world. &ldquo;Oh, well. In the
sweet bye and bye after you die, you&rsquo;ll see it.&rdquo; Bullshit!
You won&rsquo;t see it until you&rsquo;re willing to see it whether
it&rsquo;s now or after you die. You won&rsquo;t see it until you are
willing to see it.

Now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you seek love in order to attack it you will NEVER find it. For if
love is sharing&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; oh, generousness &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; if love is sharing&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; extension.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; how can you find it except through ITSELF?
</div>

You can&rsquo;t find it until you&rsquo;re being it, in other words. You
can&rsquo;t find love until you&rsquo;re embodying love. You can&rsquo;t
find love until you are willing to be generous.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Offer it and it will come to you because it is drawn to itself. But
offer attack and it will remain hidden, for it can live only in peace.
</div>

Meaning it can live only in an unconflicted mind. It can live only in a
mind which is not insisting on introducing a secondary plan to stand in
its own right along with the Father&rsquo;s Plan; side by side; equal
but different. That&rsquo;s the introduction of conflict. That&rsquo;s
the introduction of polarity. That&rsquo;s the introduction of
difference. You see? Twoness. Duality. Which is impossible.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God&rsquo;s Son &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the one that you really Are &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is as safe as his Father, for the Son &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the one that you really Are &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; knows his Father&rsquo;s protection and CANNOT fear.
</div>

Why does he know his Father&rsquo;s protection? Because he&rsquo;s not
engaging in behaving in a way that causes him to seem to be separate
from the Father, and therefore unavailable to the perfect order of Being
that his Father is embodying right where the Son is.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
His Father&rsquo;s Love holds him in perfect peace, and needing nothing,
he ASKS for nothing. Yet he is far from you whose Self he is&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in other words:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet he &hellip;
</div>

The one that you truly Are, the Christ &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is far from you &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the orphan that you think you are &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; whose Self &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Real You is. You may be acting like an orphan and you may
be ignoring everything that makes you not an orphan, but you don&rsquo;t
ever stop being what you really Are. And so what you really Are is the
Self, the Real Self of the orphan. Right now in your sense of
separateness and lostness, you are absolutely divine. And this divine
one that you Are is the only Self there is. And so it is the
Self&mdash;which we&rsquo;re going to capitalize to identify the Real
You&mdash;it is the Self of the you, you think you are. In other words,
you are the Christ, each one of you, behaving as though you are not the
Christ and believing your behavior.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet he &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; God&rsquo;s Son &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is far from you whose Self he is, for you chose to attack
him&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you chose to dispute him by taking on another character, and
giving preference to the character you took on.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; he is far from you whose Self he is, for you chose to attack
him, and he disappeared from your sight into his Father.
</div>

The Real You disappeared from your sight into your Father.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
HE &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Real You &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; did not change, but YOU &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the orphan mentality that you&rsquo;re so damned sure of and so
proud of.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; did.
</div>

The Real You did not change, but you did.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For a split mind and all its works were not created by the Father, and
could not live in the knowledge of Him.
</div>

You see, you have to disown your Father, you have to divorce your Father
in order to have a sense of yourself that is original and different from
your Father, different from your Father&rsquo;s Son. And so if
you&rsquo;re going to maintain this state of orphanhood, it (the orphan)
cannot live in the knowledge of his Father, in the awareness that he has
a Father, because if he lived in that awareness, he would know that he
wasn&rsquo;t an orphan. They&rsquo;re mutually exclusive.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you made what is NOT true visible, what IS true became invisible.
</div>

When you became devoted to a lie, Truth became invisible, because if you
let any of the Truth in, it would undo the lie that you&rsquo;re
committed to. And so you cannot let the Truth in and still maintain the
lie; which is another way of saying, &ldquo;and still maintain the
façade.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you made what is NOT true visible, what IS true became invisible.
Yet it cannot be invisible in ITSELF&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what God has made cannot be rendered null and void. It
can&rsquo;t become invisible. It can&rsquo;t actually disappear.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; for the Holy Spirit sees it with perfect clarity.
</div>

Your right Mind sees it with perfect clarity, because your right Mind is
It, held in trust while you&rsquo;re having this little drama, this
little playacting episode, pretending to be an orphan.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is invisible to you &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; as an orphan &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; because you are looking at something ELSE.
</div>

And what are you looking at? You&rsquo;re looking at your definitions,
or you&rsquo;re looking at the definitions others have provided to you
and you&rsquo;re not questioning them at all.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet it is no more up to you to decide what is visible and what is
invisible than it is up to you to decide what reality is. What can be
seen is what the HOLY SPIRIT sees. The definition of reality is
God&rsquo;s, not yours. HE created it, and HE knows what it is. You who
knew have forgotten, and unless He had given you a way to remember you
would have condemned yourselves to oblivion.
</div>

You see, you thought you were just having a little fun; got together
with one of your Brother Christs and you said, &ldquo;Hey, what
d&rsquo;ya say we call this embodiment of living Love, &lsquo;a
tree&rsquo;? And what d&rsquo;ya say we say that its defenseless
relationship with what it&rsquo;s standing on is really a dependent
relationship, and that it gets its life not from the Love that it is,
but from what we&rsquo;ll call &lsquo;soil&rsquo;? And let&rsquo;s say
that in order for the soil to be nurturing, it must be watered. And
let&rsquo;s say that in order for there to be water, there must be large
bodies of water which will evaporate and float in the air over the land
(the soil) and fall. Let&rsquo;s make it fall. Let&rsquo;s call it
&lsquo;precipitation.&rsquo; And it will water the soil, which will
nurture the tree that is dependent upon what&rsquo;s in the soil. What
d&rsquo;ya say&mdash;shall we do that? Shall we create this definition
and believe it? To hell with what the Father said. To hell with what it
really is. Let&rsquo;s do this thing.&rdquo;

So you did it, and two of you were duped. Two of you joined together in
an illusion. And what you didn&rsquo;t realize was that this
&ldquo;playing with Reality&rdquo; would cause you to become disoriented
and separated from your Source, because you separated yourself from the
Real Meaning of that which you gave definitions to, and therefore
obscured its Source, and you lost God. God disappeared. And the living
embodiment of Love that what came to be called &ldquo;a tree&rdquo; and
&ldquo;the soil&rdquo; is, was lost to you. You see?

You&mdash;who knew that it was a living, moving, embodiment of
Love&mdash;have forgotten.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and unless He had given you a way to remember you would have
condemned yourselves to oblivion.
</div>

Why? Because the pride of creation is self-righteousness. The pride of
personal private creation is self-righteousness. And self-righteousness
is mesmerizing. And you become addicted to it. And there would be no way
out if God had not given you a way to remember.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[But] Because of your Father&rsquo;s Love you can NEVER forget Him, for
no-one can forget what God Himself placed in his memory.
</div>

Now another way of looking at this&mdash;these words &ldquo;placed in
his memory&rdquo;&mdash;is that the Holy Spirit, which is your right
Mind, can&rsquo;t go anywhere. And if you are not paying any attention
to it, it is, in effect, held in trust while you dally with your
orphanhood. And in that sense, Who You Are is placed in your memory. A
better way of putting it is that it&rsquo;s placed in your Being, which
can&rsquo;t ever actually change.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You can DENY it, but you cannot LOSE it.
</div>

And of course, as long as you&rsquo;re giving preference to the meanings
you&rsquo;re giving to everything, you are denying What Everything Is,
and you are denying Who You Are, together with your already-present
capacity to experience everything As It Truly Is. A capacity you do not
have to work hard to gain. A capacity you do not have to refine yourself
into having available to you.

Listen &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
A Voice will answer every question you ask, and a Vision will correct
the perception of everything you see. For what you have made invisible
is the ONLY truth, and what you have not heard is the ONLY answer. God
would reunite you with yourself, and did not abandon you in your seeming
distress. You are waiting only for Him and do not know it. Yet His
memory shines in your minds and cannot BE obliterated. It is no more
past than future, being forever always.
</div>

His memory shines in your minds. And like the sunshine and the beautiful
day that you can&rsquo;t appreciate because you&rsquo;re in a blue
funk&mdash;you, in your prestigious sense of yourself as an independent
agent, cannot see His memory that shines in you; the Truth of you that
abides in you shining.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have but to ask for this memory and you WILL remember. Yet the
memory of God cannot shine in a mind which has MADE it invisible and
wants to KEEP it so.
</div>

If you love your depression and you hold on to it, everything is going
to look like shit. Everything is going to be colored by your devotion.
And yet &ldquo;Reality perceived Truly&rdquo; is present to be
experienced, just as surely as the beautiful spring day is available to
you to be experienced, but which you&rsquo;re not experiencing because,
at the moment, you&rsquo;re feeling depressed and totally feeling
totally incapable of being generous enough to let yourself have any
other experience but the satisfaction of the self-righteousness that
says, &ldquo;I am pissed off because I can&rsquo;t have things the way I
want them, and therefore I will give nothing.&rdquo; And with all of the
power of the Christ that you Are, your word stands. And yet all that
happens is that you continue to not see what&rsquo;s right in front of
your face. That&rsquo;s all.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet the memory of God cannot shine in a mind which has MADE it invisible
and wants to KEEP it so. For the memory of God can dawn only in a mind
that wills to remember, and that has relinquished the insane desire to
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what? (Key words here.)

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; control reality. You who cannot even control yourselves should
hardly aspire to control the universe. But look upon what you have made
of it, and rejoice that it is not so. Son of God&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; I&rsquo;m talking to you. These words are talking to you right
now.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Son of God, be not content with nothing! What is not real cannot BE seen
and HAS no value. God could not offer His Son what has no value&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; why? Because what He gave you was Love, generously extended.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God could not offer His Son what has no value, nor could His Son receive
it. You were redeemed the instant you thought you had deserted Him.
</div>

You were redeemed the moment you thought you had deserted Him.
&ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;d rather see it my own way. I want a bill of
divorcement&mdash;signed, sealed, delivered bill of divorcement. Final.
I&rsquo;m me in my own right.&rdquo; Well, now it&rsquo;s not the same
&ldquo;me&rdquo; that said, &ldquo;I want a bill of divorcement.&rdquo;
Now it&rsquo;s &ldquo;an orphan.&rdquo; But only in an insane
imagination, and the Christ that you Are has been held intact,
untouched, unchanged. It&rsquo;s called the Holy Spirit now, held in
trust while you dally with the ego. So you were redeemed the moment you
made this insane decision to be on your own.

And again, you do not have to do anything to become worthy of being the
Christ that you Are. You do not have to refine your soul. You do not
have to go through any process. You simply have to do what? You have to
abandon introducing or attempting to introduce something into Creation
that the Father never made, which is your own determination to see
things in your own way, or your own definitions that you apply to
everything. All you have to do is stop doing that.

And how do you stop doing that? By agreeing with God&rsquo;s Plan for
salvation. Reaching out to something beyond your best orphan capacities
and saying, &ldquo;Father, help! Father, I&rsquo;m inviting You
in.&rdquo;

How do you do it? You do it the same way you do if you&rsquo;re
depressed. You notice that you&rsquo;re depressed, and now you have no
excuse for just not naming it and saying, &ldquo;I&rsquo;m having a real
blue funk of a day. Ho hum. I&rsquo;ll just wait for it to lift. And in
the meantime, don&rsquo;t depend upon me for anything &lsquo;cause I
just can&rsquo;t get the energy behind doing anything. And I don&rsquo;t
give a shit whether I do anything or not. That&rsquo;s how bad it
is.&rdquo; You won&rsquo;t be able to say those words or feel those
words without knowing the Truth that I&rsquo;ve shared with you; that
this is really a self-righteous and arrogant position to take, that is
geared to creating a nearly pure state of orphanhood or isolation, and
that it is what is causing your misery.

And it isn&rsquo;t enough to know that. You have to say, &ldquo;I want
out of the funk. And so in spite of the fact that I have no energy for
getting out of it, I am going to find ways to be generous. I am going to
exert the effort it takes to pay attention to where I am, and to
acknowledge who I&rsquo;m with, and be sensitive to their needs.&rdquo;
Does the plant need to be watered? Does the garbage need to be taken
out? Pay attention to the need and be willing to supply the need. That
is the way you get out of the funk.

And it is that same sort of joining with the Father, because
you&rsquo;re putting forth the effort necessary to not be immobilized in
your depression or in your orphan state. And make the connection. Invite
the connection and let it happen, and acknowledge it and own it and
claim it, and be willing to indulge in it more and more frequently.

Being an orphan is basically a lazy activity, because it is so private
that it does not require you to relate to anything at all. That&rsquo;s
not called being alive, much less being awake.

So, this week when you go to bed at night, contemplate your day and find
the places where you were being generous. And if there weren&rsquo;t a
lot of times that you were being generous, because it hasn&rsquo;t been
your habit to, then just acknowledge that tomorrow you will be a little
bit more disciplined and make more occasions for being generous, by
paying more attention, with the attitude of care. For what purpose? To
meet needs. What a simple and wonderful activity to engage in. I promise
you that if you engage in it consciously, your experience of your world
will change dramatically before the end of the first day, before your
first bedtime where you would ask yourself whether you have been
generous. Cultivate being generous.

Yes, it will require you to pay attention. I will tell you that paying
attention is Life. And not paying attention is death. Your inevitable
path is redemption. There really is no other choice. You can create
misery up the kazoo, but you cannot actually accomplish death. Even if
you appear to pass on, you will find yourself still being. You cannot
accomplish death. So give your attention to accomplishing Life, to
letting Life be what it already is, without any of what it is being
obscured from you.

So instead of this being your homework, this is your homeplay. Go play
this week with &ldquo;intent to be generous&rdquo; carried out.

I love you. And I look forward to being with you next week. I look
forward to being with &ldquo;new you&rsquo;s&rdquo; next week.

Okay.

[^1]: T11.8 Reality and Redemption

