---
title: May 27, 2006
ref: "T11.8 Reality and Redemption"
alink: "/acim/text/11/chap1108/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who's joining us on the Internet.

I know many of you had a very interesting week following our
get-together last week. And what may have escaped people's attention
is, that we were talking about Love. We were taking about the fact that
it's everyone's function to be the Presence of Love&mdash;moving. And,
of course, Love moving means involvement, as we talked at some length
about last week.

Now, the issue that started the subject was need that had been expressed
by Paul the week before. Need for what? Involvement. Need for conscious
involvement. Since it revolved around financial support, there was a
spontaneous feeling among most everyone: &ldquo;Well, I hope we can
finally get this problem resolved! I hope we can get this taken care of
once and for all!&rdquo; Why? &ldquo;Well, so that I won't have to be
confronted with it again.&rdquo; Not &ldquo;I Paul,&rdquo; but all of
you.

You know, when you have a child, in the beginning you stand a little bit
in awe of the experience of the appearing of this child, and then, of
finding your capacity to love this child. And as the years go by, the
thought sometimes will occur to you: &ldquo;Boy, I can't wait till they
get to be eighteen or twenty and move away from home. And then I will be
through raising them and then I can get on to other things!&rdquo; Like:
&ldquo;Oh, the excruciating task of expressing endless love will be
over! Can't wait for the time when everything falls into order, and
attention doesn't have to be given to it again!&rdquo; And finally
you're free. What? Free to [small laugh] not have to love is what
you're saying. Free not to have to be as attentive. Free to not be as
conscious.

You know, it's very easy for you to enjoy the concept of God's Eternal
Love. The fact that it's eternal means that you have a guarantee of
always being embraced without fluctuation and therefore, if you're
willing to reach for It and receive It and accept It, you feel secure.

But, oh dear, the minute I or anyone suggests that because you are God's
Self-Expression; thereby embodying everything about God, obviously your
function&mdash;the Movement of Being&mdash;is one of Eternal Love. You
see? Oh dear, eternal involvement? And then it doesn't sound so
wonderful. And it sounds like work. And the orphan says: &ldquo;Well
okay, I'll tell you what: If we are to attend to our brother's need,
let's find a way to organize the attending to our brother's needs. Our
city, like other cities, has what's called a tent-city; A city of tents
put up by the homeless, wherever they can find enough space. Well, let's
form a committee. Let's form a committee to find out what the needs are
of these people as well as what the needs are of the city so that we can
get rid of this scourge, this ugliness that doesn't reflect well on the
city. Let's find out whether we need to raise funds or establish a fund
to help these people get their needs met, so that they won't be messing
up our city anymore.&rdquo; You see?

Do you see that if you try to organize the expression of Love, Love goes
out of the window? To form a committee means that only a small number of
people actually have to be involved with &ldquo;them&rdquo; who live in
this tent city. And everyone else can say: &ldquo;Well, you know what?
We're paying our taxes. And hopefully our taxes will go into a fund that
will clean up this problem. And I don't have to be involved at all. I
don't have to be conscious enough to look into one of my brother's eyes
in tent city and actually care enough to let myself be present enough
with him, as well as present with the Father or the Holy Spirit, so that
I may be led to know what needs to be done, and what will constitute an
extension of Love that will bless my brother and allow me to fulfill my
function.&rdquo; You see?

&ldquo;I hope Paul gets his problem worked out so that I won't have to
think about this anymore. Oh, you know what? Why doesn't Paul just
start charging for everything? Everyone else does and I wouldn't have
any problem with receiving a bill for a copy of a newsletter, or a CD,
or to download something from the Internet. I wouldn't mind at
all.&rdquo;

These are all means of distancing yourself from Paul or
from the need. Sort of take care of the need by remote control. You
know, and then &ldquo;out of sight, out of mind.&rdquo; Well, you know
what? The need isn't for money. The need is for Love. And the need
isn't for any of you to give money. The need is for you to take to
heart what this book teaches, and what I've been teaching and actually
begin to shift within yourself, so that you are being in a new way more
consciously.

Now, because what I'm talking about is not one of the habits that an
orphan engages in, it's going to require effort. It's going to require
conscious persistence&mdash;conscientiousness. Being in a new way is far
different from thinking in a new way, because being means action, and
action takes place in your world. And action means involvement: being in
a new way in the world.

You get up in the morning, perhaps you and your wife get up in the
morning. You both get dressed. You get ready for work. You each take
your own car and you go to your job. And you go through your day
unconscious of each other. And you come home at the end of the day and
you're tired. And so, one of you goes to the computer, the other one
goes into the television. And you sit down and have a quiet evening
together at home, you say. [chuckling] Together? You're not even
conscious of each other.

Now, I&rsquo;ve drawn a stark, negative picture there. Many of you are
much more involved with each other than that. But, I&rsquo;m
encouraging all of you to become more conscious of each other than
that. 

Sometimes you run into people whose constant activity is one of
caring. They&rsquo;ll give you the shirt off their back. And
they&rsquo;ll know when a shirt is needed. And that&rsquo;s the key
point: They&rsquo;ll know when a shirt is needed. Why? Because
they&rsquo;re paying attention&mdash;and they know that they&rsquo;re
there to care. This is part of what is natural and normal to each one of
you. You each have an Infinite capacitybuilt in. It&rsquo;s your
Nature. It&rsquo;s the Essence of your Being. You have an Infinite
capacity to Be Love Moving. And if you didn&rsquo;t know that, now you
know.

I&rsquo;m telling you this so that when it looks that I&rsquo;m
suggesting that you begin to engage in something that&rsquo;s going to
be work because it doesn&rsquo;t come naturally to you in your role as
an orphan, you need to know that I&rsquo;m not asking you to do
something you don&rsquo;t have the capacity to do. The Love in you is
Infinite. The Love in you moves from an Eternal Source&mdash;Eternal.
You have the capacity to be so involved with those in your world and the
things in the world that you notice when the plants need to be watered.
You notice when your husband or your wife or your partner or your
children are needing guidance or direction or a hug. And you notice all
of these things simultaneously because you have the capacity to do
it.

Don&rsquo;t want for needs to go away. Or I&rsquo;ll put it this way:
Don&rsquo;t want calls for love to go away. Don&rsquo;t want for
opportunities to be the Presence of Love to go away. Don&rsquo;t want
to get to a point where you won&rsquo;t have to do it any more.

Some parents don&rsquo;t wait until their kids are eighteen, they get a
nanny when the kids are two weeks old. And the nanny changes the
diapers. And the nanny burps them. And the nanny holds them when
they&rsquo;re fretful. And the nanny massages them when they&rsquo;ve
got some gas that isn&rsquo;t coming out easily. The nanny is the
Presence of Love extended&ndash;extending. And the new proud parents
sleep comfortably in their bed, undisturbed by the opportunity to be the
Presence of Love moving.

&ldquo;Well I justdon&rsquo;t want to have to keep thinking about this.
I&rsquo;d rather get on to happier things.&rdquo; Well there you are, the
Pharisee. Mmm, &ldquo;Well I just don&rsquo;t want to think about or be
conscious of such things as this guy that&rsquo;s been beaten and
mistreated. I&rsquo;d rather give my thought to more holy, more pleasant
things.&rdquo; You see? In your unwillingness to be the Presence of Love,
you secure your orphanhood because, after all, orphanhood is a state of
isolation, of aloneness. Isn&rsquo;t it?

If you want to wake up, if you want to come Home into your right Mind,
you have to be willing to abandon the isolation that you treasure so
much. And in order to do it, it&rsquo;s going to take effort, because
you treasure it so much. It&rsquo;s going to take effort to override
the way in which you treasure your isolation. But, remember that you
have the Infinite capacity to Be Love moving because you&rsquo;re not an
orphan, because you are God Presencing Himself, right there where you
are! And it&rsquo;s God&rsquo;s capacity to Be Eternal Love that
constitutes your capacity. That&rsquo;s why, when you dare to embrace
your capacity to be Eternal Love and you do It and you extend It, you
get to keep It. And you remember God. Because what? You&rsquo;ve
engaged with God, haven&rsquo;t you? You&rsquo;ve had to stand in
receipt of this flow of Eternal Love that is yours because God is Being
It right there where you are, where He Is Being You.

Now you know, the Foundation is a non-profit corporation. Oh, boy,
start thinking in those terms and we&rsquo;ve got an organization, a
wonderful place for committees and a wonderful setup for organizing the
inflow ofmoney. Being a non-profit, it can apply for grants&ndash;free
money, so to speak. And then no one would have to be conscious at all.
You see? And yet Love is what waking up is all about&mdash;discovering
It, letting It flow through you instead of all of the other crap that
you willingly let flow through you &hellip; and letting It transform you
and transform others, because all of you do know, at the bottom line,
that Love does transform, that Love does heal.

This Work simply cannot be transactional.

&ldquo;Oh, yeah. There Raj is talking aboutthe Work. Raj is talking
about the Foundation. Raj is talking about money. Raj is talking about
contributions.&rdquo; No. I am not talking about any of that.
I&rsquo;m talking about the fact that those things do stand as a trigger
for each and every one of you to take a look at the degree to which, as
I said last week, you choose consciously to be the Pharisee, and not
look at need and not bring into play your capacity to Be Love
Eternally. And it serves as a trigger for you to change your mind about
just how much Love you&rsquo;re going to give &hellip; but not quite
give &hellip; hopefully just a little, just enough, because you think
you&rsquo;re an orphan. And because you think you don&rsquo;t have
much and because you think that it&rsquo;s not in the cards for you to
have much unless you become a really good orphan and a really good
manipulator, where you can make things happen without employing Love.

How thoughtful are you of your wife? How thoughtful are you of your
husband? How thoughtful are you of your lovers? How thoughtful are you
of your children? How much of your conscious awareness is allowed to
rest upon and be present with not just yourself, but yourself and your
family, yourself and your neighbors, yourself and your friends? You have
an Infinite capacity to do this.
Thoughtfulness&ndash;involvement&mdash;it&rsquo;s a big word. And I hope
that what I&rsquo;ve been talking about is making you take a closer look
at just how much or how little involvement you are allowing to occur in
your daily lives.

Oh! But you have a holy work to do. I&rsquo;m tattling on Paul a
little bit here. &ldquo;I have a Gathering to master because people are
waiting for it. Sue can wait. She&rsquo;s strong. Basic needs are
taken care of. She doesn&rsquo;t need my attention. And my not giving
her my attention&rdquo; &hellip; is not giving her his attention is not
because he doesn&rsquo;t love her, but because he has partitioned off
this part of his capacity to Love from this capacity to Love and
he&rsquo;s saying it&rsquo;s justified not to be thoughtful and
sensitive fully in this area, because over in this area a truly holy
work is being done. It isn&rsquo;t like he&rsquo;s sitting over there
drinking a beer, watching the fights on the TV. You see? And so
there&rsquo;s a justification that really, in terms of actual life
experience, is no different from the guy drinking the beer, watching
the fights, not giving a thought to his wife. The actual experience is
one of no involvement.

If what we&rsquo;re reading about, and if whatI&rsquo;m teaching
isn&rsquo;t trickling down, let&rsquo;s say, a little bit lower than
your mind into your life and your behaviors, it&rsquo;s not worth
shit! No matter how spiritually precocious and advanced you might think
you are, if you&rsquo;re going to bring the Truth home, it&rsquo;s
going to mean something more than having a realization in your
mind. It&rsquo;s going to mean a realization in your mind that causes
your way of behaving in the world to change.

The last time we were reading from the book, I read this:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Because of your Father&rsquo;s Love you can NEVER forget Him, for no-one
can forget what God Himself placed in his memory. You can DENY it, but
you cannot LOSE it.[^1]
</div>

Well, likewise, God has placed in you an Infinite Eternal capacity to Be
Love, moving. And &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You can DENY it, but you cannot LOSE it.
</div>

Now this is the part I actually want to read:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
A Voice will answer every question you ask, and a Vision will correct
the perception of everything you see.
</div>

That&rsquo;s very important. A simple sentence. You can read it and
run right by it, and not realize that there&rsquo;s depth to it. You
see, it&rsquo;s not enough to have an answer intellectually.
That&rsquo;s not all that was given to you. You weren&rsquo;t just
given a Voice, the Voice for Truth that would give you answers. You were
also given Vision that you might perceive differently. Vision means,
that which is capable of paying attention.

Vision: When the Truth that the Voice shares with you becomes embodied
in the clear perception that Vision gives you, your behavior changes
quote, &ldquo;in the world,&rdquo; unquote. And now Love has moved.
The Voice may say something that will cause you to recognize Love, but
the Vision is what will translate it into movement, so that miracles
happen in the world. And this is really what I&rsquo;ve been talking
about for the last two weeks&mdash;last week and this week. This is
really what I&rsquo;m talking about.

Now the simple fact is, that no-one will implement what I&rsquo;m
talking about until they&rsquo;re ready. And so, I&rsquo;m not gonna
get up on a soapbox and try to force you to do anything, because no
matter what I would do, you will still only do it when you decide to do
it&mdash;when it&rsquo;s important to you. But, I&rsquo;ve made it a
little more difficult for you now, because now you know the Truth.
You&rsquo;re not ignorant of it, even if you opt for not implementing it
yet.

It&rsquo;s important for you to know when you&rsquo;re not implementing
Reality&mdash;when you&rsquo;re not implementing Truth. If you
don&rsquo;t know that you&rsquo;re not implementing Truth because you
don&rsquo;t know there is a Truth to implement, that&rsquo;s one
thing&mdash;that&rsquo;s ignorance governing you. When you don&rsquo;t
choose to implement the Truth, but you know what the Truth is,
you&rsquo;re in a far better place, because now you know you have a
choice. And you&rsquo;re just opting for the lazy choice. But you know
there&rsquo;s a choice, and you know you&rsquo;re not stuck.

Now I&rsquo;m going to use a word I used last week that many of you
didn&rsquo;t like. You didn&rsquo;t like the way I used it. But if you
know what the Truth is and you&rsquo;re opting to not implement it, you
are guilty of not implementing Truth. Ohh, I know... the Course
says that you are the guiltless Son of God. Absolutely you are. But if
you are the guiltless Son of God, choosing not to embody the Truth of
His Being, you are the guiltless Son of God, being guilty of
notfulfilling your Purpose! You are the guiltless Son of God behaving
in a manner that doesn&rsquo;t work. You are the guiltless Son of God
behaving in a manner that does not embody His Heritage, His Real Nature,
His True Character, the very Substance of His Being. Because
you&rsquo;re saying: &ldquo;I&rsquo;m going to opt for being an orphan a
little bit longer. (Thanks for telling me I&rsquo;m not an orphan.)
But I&rsquo;m going to opt for being an orphan a little longer, and
I&rsquo;m going to opt for believing&mdash;continuing to try to
believe&mdash;I am an orphan even though ya got me. And now I
know that I&rsquo;m not an orphan. But you know what? I&rsquo;m not
going to validate that yet. And as an orphan, I have the right to not
validate the Truth!&rdquo; You see?

And so, you are the Christ, behaving as though you are not the
Christ. And trying to believe your behavior. And so you are guilty of
denying your Christhood.

What does that mean, when someone is guilty? Are you guilty of denying
your Christhood? What does that mean? Are you willing to take
responsibility, to own the responsibility for your not behaving as
though you&rsquo;re the Christ? Are you willing to own the
responsibility? That&rsquo;s all. And if you say: &ldquo;Yes,
I&rsquo;m willing to own the fact that I&rsquo;m choosing not to behave
as though I&rsquo;m the Christ,&rdquo; it is the same as saying:
&ldquo;I am guilty of choosing not to behave as though I&rsquo;m the
Christ.&rdquo;

Accepting your guilt can be looked at as shameful. But the fact is that
when you truly own your guilt, when you truly say: &ldquo;I recognize
that I&rsquo;m opting not to behave in harmony with what I truly
am,&rdquo; you are expressing an honesty that does not cause those who
are Awake to feel that you are behaving shamefully. It causes Us to
rejoice, because your willingness to take responsibility for behaving in
a dysfunctional way constitutes a far greater degree of honesty and
truth in you. And in your doing it, you are laying a
foundation&mdash;you&rsquo;re providing a foundation&mdash;for a
different choice to be made. And so you are stronger, you are the
stronger for it and this is good.

My task is to simply encourage you not to delay implementing the Truth
about you, not delay in discovering your capacity to be the Eternal
Presence of Love moving. And it&rsquo;s My task to share with you that
in your willingness to do that, sin, sickness and death will begin to
disappear. Transformation will begin to appear&ndash;occur&ndash;in
you, in your world.

Now, let&rsquo;s say that you&rsquo;ve done this, and all sin, disease
and death in the world, and the materiality of the world has faded, and
you&rsquo;re left with Reality. Now do you get a rest from consciously
being the Presence of Love, the sensitivity, the thoughtfulness, the
glad involvement with each and every thing Infinitely? No!

You know what? Love moving is Creation.

Love moving, moves Eternally &hellip; moves Eternally. Creation is a
forever Movement of Love eliciting that which is new. And all that is
being brought forth by the Movement of Love infinitely needs you. And
you need It because It&rsquo;s part of the infinitude of you. And so,
there will forever be that to which you will have the opportunity to be
sensitive and embrace and be present with and acknowledge yourself in It
and It in you and that together, it&rsquo;s all God. So that every
aspect of your Being is actively glorifying God by not denying God
anywhere, and finding no desire for a respite from being the Presence of
Love that acknowledges God everywhere. It&rsquo;s your Birthright, and
it&rsquo;s not work. It&rsquo;s the sustainer of you. It&rsquo;s the
nourisher of you. And It is the essence of you moving&mdash;moving
infinitely.

Now, you look around you at the things that confront you in your day.
And you are sure that there are things there which don&rsquo;t deserve
your Love. Well you&rsquo;re wrong. And when that thought comes to
you, what it very often means is that what you see that
doesn&rsquo;t deserve your Love is something that you feel will require
more love than you have to give. Using that orphan mentality: Not
enough, not enough, not enough! But the fact is, that you have an
infinite capacity to love. And you&rsquo;re going to have to start
taking hold of It. You&rsquo;re going to have to start embracing It.

It&rsquo;s sort of like a delicious hunk of meat on a turkey leg, you
know. You&rsquo;re going to have to sink your teeth into it and pull it
away from the bone, you know! It&rsquo;s not like pabulum, where you
get it in the spoon and [slurping noise] slurp it into your mouth.
No. You&rsquo;re just going to have to take hold of your capacity to be
the Presence of Love by wanting nothing else&ndash;by not opting
for walking by on the other side of the road.

Hey, if I told you that the experience of waking up was like constantly
being able to eat filet mignon or the chocolatiest, chocolate ice cream
that you could imagine, you might be willing to put forth a little bit
of effort to take a bite. What you&rsquo;re having to take a look at
&hellip; what I am illuminating here so that it&rsquo;s easier for you
to take a look at is, just how much you make judgments and withhold
your Love. And when you withhold your Love, you don&rsquo;t realize
that you&rsquo;re short-changing yourself. You don&rsquo;t realize that
you are squelching your fundamental capacity. You don&rsquo;t realize
that you&rsquo;re squelching the movement of your Being. And so you
say: &ldquo;That&rsquo;s no big deal.&rdquo; But it is! It&rsquo;s the
difference between dreaming a dream and being Awake. It&rsquo;s
experiencing the human condition or the Kingdom of Heaven. It really
does constitute that much of a difference.

Let&rsquo;s go to the book. Referring to you as the orphan, it says
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Everything that you made has never been, and is invisible because the
Holy Spirit does not see it.
</div>

Everything you made up. All the definitions you&rsquo;ve given to, you
know, the people who live in Tent City and the double-amputee on
the sidewalk or the drunk asleep in the gutter who&rsquo;s not even
begging for anything. The Holy Spirit does not see that. And what is
the Holy Spirit? Not the big eye in the sky. That which is nothing
more than your right Mind&ndash;your right Mind. Your right Mind does
not see it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Everything &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your confused mind has made &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; has never been, and is invisible because &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that which is your right Mind &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; does not see it.
</div>

More than that, you can&rsquo;t imagine yourselfas a separate entity
and actually succeed at becoming a separate entity that has a power to
create anything, or make anything. And so, there is nothing to see,
because there is nothing there. And there isn&rsquo;t anything that ever
made it. It&rsquo;s a misperception entertained by a mind that is Real,
but which is in a state of self-denial.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet what He &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit&ndash;that which is your right Mind &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; what He DOES see is yours to behold, and through His
vision your perception is healed. You have made the invisible the only
truth that this world holds.
</div>

Another way of saying this is:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have made the &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; make-believe

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the only truth that this world holds. Valuing nothing, you
have sought nothing and FOUND nothing.
</div>

Now listen:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
By making nothing REAL to you, you have SEEN it.
</div>

You have created the delusion of something there.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
By making nothing REAL to you, you have SEEN it. BUT IT IS NOT THERE.
</div>

In your ignorance of yourself and your brother as the Christ, you look
at the Christs that confront you every day and you identify them as
something less. And you are committed to the definition you&rsquo;ve
given them. But they are not there. The ones you see are not there!
What is there is an overlay of a definition you have applied to
Something that is Real. And all you&rsquo;re allowing yourself to see
of that one is the little, awful definition that you have made up!

Again &hellip; 

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have made the invisible &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the definition you&rsquo;ve applied &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the only truth that this world holds. Valuing nothing&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; valuing nothing itself&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you have sought nothing and FOUND nothing. By making nothing
REAL to you, you have SEEN it. BUT IT IS NOT THERE.
</div>

No matter what you&rsquo;re calling or defining your brother or sister
as, what is there, right here, right here, in each of these seats, is
the Christ&mdash;the full-blown Christ! The Presence of God. That is
What is here, right now. And anything less than that that you are
seeing is not there. But &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
By making the nothing REAL to you, you have SEEN it.
</div>

You&rsquo;re all seeing something right now, but you&rsquo;re not seeing
what&rsquo;s really here. You&rsquo;re seeing what you&rsquo;re sure is
here. What is really here is Really here, and what you&rsquo;re seeing
is not here. And Christ is invisible to you because of what you have
made visible to yourselves!

The Ultimate is the only Thing going on. You are neither behind the
Point of Perfection, nor advancing toward It. Each of you is at that
Point, and you must understand yourself therefrom, which means you have
to abandon your commitment to your best perception at the moment and
dare to assume that the full-blown Christ is right there, across from
you, and then want to see It more than you want to see what you have
been educated to believe is there, and what you have fooled yourself
into thinking is there.

And that&rsquo;s the way you free the Christ that is there, up.
That&rsquo;s the way you free up the Christ that is there from the
bondage of your definitions that you have applied to them, and hold them
to. That is the Gift of Love.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And Christ is invisible to you because of what you have made visible to
YOURSELVES. Yet it does not matter how much distance you have tried to
interpose between your awareness and truth.
</div>

That&rsquo;s the wonder of it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; it does not matter how much distance you have tried to
interpose between your awareness and truth. God&rsquo;s Son CAN be seen
because his vision is shared.
</div>

Another very important sentence.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God&rsquo;s Son CAN be seen because his vision is shared.
</div>

There are no private thoughts. There are no private minds. Only the
orphan doesn&rsquo;t share vision. Only the orphan doesn&rsquo;t share
the conscious awareness of Mind being infinite and all-inclusive of all
Creation. But the Christs that each of you are, sitting here, sitting
in your homes, knows it is not an orphan&ndash;it is not an
orphan. And therefore, at this moment, while each of you thinks you
are separated off from every other thing, you are not. The vision of
reality is shared because that&rsquo;s the nature of Being. It&rsquo;s
the nature of orphans not to be in a state of sharing. And that&rsquo;s
the problem! It is the lot of orphans to be unable to feel their
oneness with anything.

Now, because God&rsquo;s Son&rsquo;s vision is shared,and that cannot
ever change, then, I&rsquo;m going to put it this way, the whole
Brotherhood eternally knows you. And because that shared knowing cannot
be altered even if you&rsquo;re choosing to temporarily ignore It, It
still is the dominant and Eternal fact. And that is what predetermines
the inevitability of your waking up and not forever being caught in this
dream of suffering.

You cannot be forever caught in your current perceptions of reality that
are so unsatisfying. The truth about you remains the truth about you in
spite of the use you&rsquo;re putting your mind to. Very important.
Why is it important? Because it gives you reason for hope! And it
is the reason that healing can occur. There is something eternally
actual about you, whether you&rsquo;re experiencing It or not. And It
constitutes the guarantee of your ability to experience a
miracle&mdash;a sudden shift of perception&mdash;that puts you in
a place, in a way of Being that you did not anticipate!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God&rsquo;s Son &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you, who each of you truly are &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; CAN be seen because his &hellip; 
</div>

&hellip; God&rsquo;s Son&rsquo;s

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; vision is shared.
</div>

Hey, if it could be private and not shared, you could take it off. You
could take it to some far place, you might think, and cause it to be
never, ever found. But because that&rsquo;s impossible, you can&rsquo;t
be lost. And you&rsquo;re not lost, right now.

Talking about God&rsquo;s Son &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit looks upon him, and sees nothing else in YOU. What is
invisible to you is perfect in His sight, and encompasses ALL of it. He
has remembered you because He forgot not the Father.
</div>

Gotta bring this back home a little bit closer again: The Holy Spirit is
nothing more than your right Mind. So your right Mind &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; has remembered you &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; who you truly Are &hellip; 

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; because He &hellip; 
</div>

&hellip; your right Mind &hellip; 

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; forgot not the Father.
</div>

You can pretend to be Fatherless, but you can&rsquo;t be Fatherless.
And you can&rsquo;t ever really forget that you have a Father even if
you torque your perception with all of your might, so that for a time,
it seems as though your Father disappeared.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You looked upon the unreal &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what you made up &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and found despair. Yet, by seeking the unreal, what else
COULD you find?
</div>

When you&rsquo;retrying to find and then you think you find something
that doesn&rsquo;t exist, it has to be a hollow experience&mdash;an
empty experience. And because this empty experience has to be going
right-on, right in the middle of reality of the Kingdom of Heaven,
it&rsquo;s what&rsquo;s really going on there where you are with all
your might, ignoring what&rsquo;s really going on there. The experience
is a strenuous experience and an unpleasant experience because you are
going right against the grain of your Self&mdash;of your Being.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The unreal world IS a thing of despair, for it can never be.
</div>

There can&rsquo;t ever really be an unreal world, even though your great
commitment and highly-focused attention has seemed to createa mirage of
unreality that seems very evident to you, and very real.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The unreal world IS a thing of despair, for it can never be. And
you who share God&rsquo;s Being with Him could never be content without
reality. What God did not give you has no power over you, and the
attraction of love for love remains irresistible.
</div>

Because it remains irresistible, the effort you bring to maintaining
your illusion is very strenuous, is very difficult to maintain, because
you&rsquo;re having to do it in the face of their resistible attraction
of love.

Are you resisting love? No! You don&rsquo;t think you&rsquo;re
resisting love, but just suggest that you have a greater capacity to
express love than you&rsquo;re expressing and that every indication of
need that you&rsquo;re confronted withis an opportunity for embodying
and expressing it. Just see how much you really find love irresistible.
Just pay attention to how willing you are to let love flow.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What God did not give you has no power over you, and the attraction of
love for love remains irresistible. For it is the function of love to
unite all things unto itself, and to hold all things together by
extending its wholeness.

The real world was given you by God in loving exchange for the world YOU
made &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; for the world you made up &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and which YOU see.
</div>

You see, these are words. There&rsquo;s only the Kingdom of Heaven, but
the minute you decided to apply different definitions to the Kingdom of
Heaven and you lost view of the Kingdom of Heaven, then immediately new
words had to be used in order to facilitate your coming back into your
right Mind. And the real world and the unreal world are such examples.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The real world was given you by God in loving exchange for the world YOU
made and which YOU see.
</div>

We have to talk about a real world because Reality is different from
what you&rsquo;re seeing. And the best way for you to understand the
difference is to identify what you&rsquo;re seeing as an
illusion&mdash;as an imperfect perception of Reality. And then we can
speak of the perfect perception of Reality as the real world. The ego
doesn&rsquo;t like the words, &ldquo;unreal world,&rdquo; and it loves
the words, &ldquo;real world.&rdquo; And so you have a natural
attraction to the real world, even though, initially, you don&rsquo;t
know what it&rsquo;s referring to.

And so, by using the terms you can be&ndash;the orphan can
be&mdash;enticed or gently nurtured into a willingness to look beyond
the definitions that it&rsquo;s currently using, which is the way the
isolation is broken and allows you then to begin to have clearer
perceptions of Reality that you identify as healing and beneficial
transformation, which further spurs you onto make greater investments
of love with more consistency and more conscientiousness.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The real world was given you by God in loving exchange for the world YOU
made and which YOU see. But take it from the hand of Christ and look
upon it.
</div>

That&rsquo;s like saying, just &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; take It from the hand of Christ and look upon it.
</div>

That&rsquo;s all you have to do. Let It in. Invite It. Let It be
handed to you. Take It. Receive the Gift that&rsquo;s being given to
you at every moment. Reality&ndash;the Kingdom of Heaven&ndash;is
presenting Itself to you, right here, right now, every moment. The Gift
is being extended and you&rsquo;re not accepting It because you&rsquo;re
so sure of your definitions.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
But take It from the hand of Christ and look upon it. Its reality will
make everything else invisible&hellip;
</div>

Meaning what? Meaning all the things that had been visible to you,
which were your own imaginations, made real by you, for you, even though
they did not exist.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Its &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the real world&rsquo;s &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; reality will make everything else &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; everything you made up &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; invisible, for beholding it &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Real World &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is TOTAL perception. And as you look upon it, you will
remember that it was always so.
</div>

And what you believed was so will never interfere with your vision
again.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Nothingness will become invisible, for you will at last have seen
truly. Redeemed perception is easily translated into knowledge&hellip;
</div>

And you know that I prefer the word Knowing. It&rsquo;s a verb, rather
than a noun. It&rsquo;s an ongoing Conscious Awareness of Truth.

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Redeemed perception is easily translated into knowledge&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; it says here, or Knowing,

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; for ONLY perception is capable of error, and perception has
never been.
</div>

It&rsquo;s part of what will become invisible.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Being corrected it gives place to knowledge&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; or the experience of Knowing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; which is forever the ONLY reality. The Atonement is but the
way back to what was never lost. Your Father could not cease to love
His Son.
</div>

Now this sentence &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Atonement is but the way back to what was never lost.
</div>

&hellip; is very important in light of what we&rsquo;re going to be
reading about for the next few weeks.

The fact that at this present moment, no matter how you are perceiving
yourselves or each other, you are the full-blown Christ. If anything is
here at this moment, it&rsquo;s the fullness of God as God is
manifesting Himself. And anything less than that is just a faulty
perception you&rsquo;re having, which you cannot successfully, forever
be blinded by.

The Ultimate is the governing and present factor at every moment. And
that is your salvation. That is what allows you to experience the
miracle of suddenly being lifted out of your misperception and having it
replaced by the true perception.

But there are steps that have to occur in order for you to get free of
the limitations that you&rsquo;re experiencing, and that you&rsquo;re
committed to and that you value so greatly. You cannot say, &ldquo;I am
the full-blown Christ, right now, because all there is here, right now,
is God Presencing Himself without limit.&rdquo; That&rsquo;s the Truth.
But that&rsquo;s not enough. Because if you, sitting here, are still
insensitive to your wife or your husband or your partner, if you still
are not letting in love and allowing it to be a movement that causes
your behavior to change, you&rsquo;re still the Christ believing
you&rsquo;re something else and committing yourself to that belief.

Something has to happen that causes behavior to change, so that behavior
embodies the truth of you. And if the behavior doesn&rsquo;t change and
you do not begin to embody the truth of you, you can sit there until
you&rsquo;re blue in the face, saying the absolute truth: &ldquo;I am
the Christ, because the only thing going on here, right now, is what God
is Presencing Himself as without limit.&rdquo; It&rsquo;s a useless
acknowledgement if you are still practicing not Being the Christ.

Enough said.

And you&rsquo;re well-prepared for what&rsquo;s to come. And I
encourage all of you before next week, to read the next two pages.
You don&rsquo;t have to go any further than that because we won&rsquo;t
even get that far. But you might even read to the end of the section to
get a sense of an overview.

I love you. I love all of you. I love you in spite of what you think
about yourself. I love you in spite of what you believe you are. I
love you because of what you actually are at this very moment. And I
will continue in whatever ways you can hear, to uncover, to
illuminate what&rsquo;s really here where each of you are, [chuckling]
so that you might dare to change.

And remember, one of the most effective, if not the most effective
promoters of change is your engaging in involvement with the intent to
extend love. I have to make that proviso, because many of you think
involvement is a good fight, or a really great argument. And that is
not involvement. That is the means you use to keep yourselves separate,
to maintain it with vigor.

So this week, on your little sticky sheet that you put on your
refrigerator, put the word &ldquo;involvement.&rdquo; And I look
forward to being with you next week. 

[^1]: T11.8 Reality and Redemption

