---
title: Jun 3, 2006
ref: "T11.9 Guiltlessness and Invulnerability"
alink: "/acim/text/11/chap1109/"
---

Good Evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

Well, I&rsquo;m going to start off the night tonight with something for
a new yellow post-it&mdash;or sticky note to put on your refrigerator. It
is this; THINKING IS NOT THE NORMAL ACTIVITY OF YOUR MIND. Thinking is
not the normal activity of your mind. The normal, the Divinely
Normal activity of your mind is attention. It&rsquo;s what I&rsquo;ve
referred to in the past as the willingness to be present with a thing; to
be present with someone else; to simply be present with, without
pre-conceptions. The normal activity of mind is attention.

Attention is attentiveness, isn&rsquo;t it. Which means that attention
is an expectation&mdash;an expectation of having something to pay
attention to, an expectation of experiencing something. You could say
that attention is an invitation to experience. It is a state of
innocence, if you don&rsquo;t bring into it preconceptions. If you
don&rsquo;t bring into play memory. If you don&rsquo;t bring into play
all of your typical knee-jerk mental responses which means your habits
of thinking. Attention is quiet. It is not an assertion of anything. It
is a receptivity, a willingness to receive; an expectation of standing in
receipt. Because it is not divided up or structured by thoughts or
theories or concepts. It stands unresistant against all of Creation. It
is a capacity to have Infinite Experience.

All of you have the capacity to set aside thoughts. And the most typical
practice for doing that is called meditation. As we&rsquo;ve said
before: Thinking is not synonymous with being conscious. When you
allow your mind to simply be, not in the state of attention, but to be
itself the state of attention, holiness, holiness of Being, holiness of
perception is available to you.

In the silence of Being the state of attention, revelation can occur:
The direct Experience of God Being You; of God&rsquo;s Infinite Mind
Being your Mind becomes available to you. Now mind you, what we&rsquo;re
talking about becoming available to you, is something you originally had.
It&rsquo;s something that you still have, but you cover over by the
busyness of your mind; by the busyness of your thinking, by your habits
of assessing situations and coming to conclusions and then basing
decisions upon those conclusions. And you busy yourself with this all
day long.

But thinking is not the normal use of Mind. It&rsquo;s one of the
reasons I talk so much about listening. Because even if you&rsquo;re
with a friend and there&rsquo;s a conversation going on, if you want to
hear what the friend is talking about and, you have interest in the
subject that is being discussed, you will shut-up so that you can hear.
You will become still enough to pay attention to what your friend is
saying.

So you know how to still your mind and be quiet long enough to hear.
Paying attention to what you hear. All of you do. It&rsquo;s a capacity
you all already have. It&rsquo;s just that you don&rsquo;t realize its
value; it&rsquo;s life-changing significance and importance.

Ultimately all of you are afraid that if you stopped thinking you would
lose your Identity. But it&rsquo;s not true. You think that if you
stopped thinking, you would become unable to function in the world. And
this is not so. Paul is not thinking right now, but he&rsquo;s
functioning in the world. Intelligence is being expressed. But more than
anything, Love is being extended. He is letting Love move through him;
Love that is finding expression in words that allow transformation to
occur in those who are listening. Why? Because what is being shared
stands specifically as a useful means for sudden release from your old
ways of thinking so that an aha! [finger snap] can happen. An insight
can occur that leaves you in a new place so that you can never leave. You
can never really go back to where you were before the insight happened.

You know what? When you let yourself be in the silence, when you value
the absence of thinking enough to allow the silence to occur and you let
yourself be in it without goals, you just let yourself deserve the
experience of Peace and rest in it, sudden shifts of perception do
occur. Insights occur. A new experience of something around you reveals
itself to you. And what happens? You say &hellip; your mouth opens and
&ldquo;Ohh &hellip; oh Wow!&rdquo; comes out. You see?

You&rsquo;re not incapable of speaking. You&rsquo;re not incapable of
communicating that something has happened. But what comes out of your
mouth becomes an expression of some sort of awe: a-w-e. Some sort of
recognition of the actuality of Divinity&mdash;of Holiness. What comes
out of your mouth in Biblical terms can be called, &ldquo;praising
God&rdquo; because it&rsquo;s an exclamation of recognition of something
meaningful. Even now, what is coming out of Paul&rsquo;s mouth expresses
a recognition of something meaningful that he is having.

How much better it would be if, as you went through your days, what came
out of your mouth was some form of an expression of awe, some form of
praising God. Something which, when heard by others, would inspire
them&mdash;would put them at ease&mdash;would make them feel
comfortable, where before they were filled with fear.

Now, I am talking the way I am talking because it&rsquo;s in the context
of A Course In Miracles. But in a different setting, under different
circumstances, I may not say anything about God. I may not say anything
about Brotherhood, I may not say anything about guiltlessness &hellip;
you see. And neither will you. You will always be appropriate in the
setting. And so, you will not stand out like a sore thumb, as I&rsquo;ve
said before.

Now, what makes thinking so damned valuable to you that you invest every
moment of your waking day employing it? Well, you think it gives you your
identity. You think that the thoughts you think define you.

You&rsquo;re a doctor. Your language&mdash;the thoughts you
think&mdash;the way you reason, gives you medical identity and respect,
let&rsquo;s say, within the medical community. If you are a social
worker, your language is expressed in a completely different context.
And again, we will say, wins you happy patients as well as, let us say,
respect among the community of social workers.You&rsquo;re a mother. And
everything your mother taught you about motherhood that was of value and
perhaps even what wasn&rsquo;t of value, but you find valuable, you
embody. And, of course, your grandmother is in there somewhere. And your
great grandmother is in there somewhere as well; and all of the means
you have to elicit the best from your children comes out in the language
you use and it identifies you as a mother&mdash;distinctly different
from a telephone operator or a backhoe operator. You see?

And so you fill your mind with the thoughts that give you identity. And
the clearer you are about who you are, the better off you are. You say:
&ldquo;The clearer I am, the more clearly everyone else can see me. The
more confused I am, the more confused everyone else will be about
me.&rdquo; You see? Well, how did you pick your role? How did you pick what
identity you were going to employ so that you would learn the
appropriate language? Well, I&rsquo;m going to rephrase the question: Why
did you pick a role and then pick a language for expressing that role in
order to give yourself identity?

You did it because you for got that in the silence of your Being, in the
state of Being Pure Mind&mdash;Being Pure Attention, you are that. And the
capacity you have in the silence of your mind allows your mind to be
filled with the Movement of God, that causes you to speak in praise of
God. It allows you to speak in praise of the Good that is obvious to you;
profound Good that is obvious to you, where, when you were active in your
thinking mind, what you saw seemed to be relatively good. Certainly not
awesome. Certainly not smacking of holiness.

You think. Because you&rsquo;ve forgotten Who You Are.

Now, that phrase you&rsquo;re not unfamiliar with: you have forgotten
Who You Are. And the Holy Spirit helps you remember Who You Are. And
it&rsquo;s almost inevitable that you all imagine&mdash;spontaneously
imagine that Who You Really Are will be a new definition; a new role.
You&rsquo;ll just know that you&rsquo;re a holy man or a holy woman.
You&rsquo;ll know that you are &hellip; mm &hellip; let&rsquo;s say, the
Presence of God in the world, whatever that might mean. But you have the
idea that it will be a new definition, which will be accompanied with
new language of expression, that will identify you like the old role did.

But I want you to listen carefully here: What you are, is not a new set
of thoughts. What you are, is the absence of thoughts. What you are, is
the Silence of Mind that is attention undivided, attention&mdash;whole
attention, simple, pure attention.

Well, that sort of throws you out into the deep blue, doesn&rsquo;t it?
Because if you take what I&rsquo;ve just said to be the Truth, you have
no way of anticipating what it&rsquo;s going to mean, do you. You have
no way to peg ahead of time what it&rsquo;s going to be. And you have no
capacity to assume that any of the skills you&rsquo;ve currently been
employing will be employable. Because, after all, they require thinking,
don&rsquo;t they? And if you&rsquo;re not going to be thinking, then what
is going to be happening? You see?

The Course says that teaching what Love is, is beyond the scope of the
Course. Well it&rsquo;s beyond the scope of anything because Love is What
you discover yourself being infilled with when you&rsquo;re willing to
stop thinking and go into the Silence and say:

&ldquo;Father, Thy Will be done. Father, let me be filled with all that
You Are Being&mdash;right here where I see me. Father, I wish to yield to
the Reality of Me that has to be going on right here where I thought I
have been alone, isolated, and constantly in danger. I will listen for Your
Voice. I will stop listening for my voice&mdash;meaning my thinking; my
best practices of reason. I will shut up long enough to hear. Fill me
today with all Thou art.&rdquo;

Now that sounds perhaps a little stilted and formal. I&rsquo;ve said it
many times in a much simpler way. I&rsquo;ve said, bring curiosity into
play so that when you look at a thing or you look in a mirror at
yourself, you say: &ldquo;What is the More that is here than I&rsquo;m
presently seeing?&rdquo; You see? &ldquo;What I&rsquo;m seeing does not
look like the Kingdom of Heaven, but Raj continues to tell me that the
only thing that is ever in my face is the Kingdom of Heaven, so
there&rsquo;s more here than what I&rsquo;m seeing. And I would like to
see It. I would like to feel It. I would like to experience It.&rdquo;

How do you do that? You shut up your mind as though a communication was
occurring so interesting and so full of the unexpected that you
don&rsquo;t want to miss it! Because no matter where you are at this
moment, and no matter what is within your line of sight, It&rsquo;s the
Kingdom of Heaven. It is Ultimate Reality, even though that is not what
you&rsquo;re experiencing of It at this moment. Your use of your mind is
exactly what blocks you from experiencing Reality As It Is. And the use
you put your mind to is not its normal use. You put it to the use of
thinking. And basically, you put it to the use of thinking poorly about
yourselves, and poorly about your brothers and sisters, and poorly about
the world. And on and on and on.

Now, we talked last week about the great value there is to you in your
having a brother that has eyes that you can look into and that your
Function is to look into your brother&rsquo;s eyes and what? Remember
God. To have an insight&mdash;an aha!&mdash;a shift of perception!
It&rsquo;s your Function to look into your brother&rsquo;s eyes and
remember God.

Well now, let&rsquo;s think about it for a moment. Things are not really
complicated here, although thinking makes it so. If your Function is to
look into your brother&rsquo;s eyes and remember God and thus be blessed
yourself, as well as your brother being blessed, what is your
brother&rsquo;s Function, whose eyes you&rsquo;re looking into? His Real
Function&mdash;just as yours, is to look into your eyes and remember
God! The Function the two of you have is to bless each other with
recognizing God in your sight.

Now, if you are busy thinking poorly about yourself, and you&rsquo;re
busy thinking poorly about your brother&mdash;let&rsquo;s say, downright
awfully about your brother, what if your brother is standing there
looking at you and actually remembering God? And you&rsquo;re sitting
there or standing there looking&mdash;not remembering God, but thinking
awfully about him or her! Are you not standing in a position of
condemnation toward your brother? Judgment? And if you are intent upon
validating your perception of him, are you going to be anywhere
near willing to value the &ldquo;Oh Wow!&rdquo;that comes out of
his mouth, because he&rsquo;s seeing God where you are? Are you going to
be able to accept the wonderful exclamations of the Truth about you that
he or she is seeing, as you&rsquo;re sitting there with your awful
thoughts about him which you feel fully justified in having? Is it
anywhere within your capacity at that moment to see the slightest glimmer
of a possibility that this awfully-considered one might have of the Truth
about you, and that you could be standing at that moment in receipt of a
blessing that would turn your head around and change your life?

Is there even the slightest capacity to see the smallest glimmer of Love
that might be coming from there? Or is your awful thought about him one
that says: &ldquo;Impossible! And even if she did have a kind thought
about me, I wouldn&rsquo;t have any truck with it. She is so this, or so
that! Or he is so this, so obstinate, so stubborn, so mean, so
thoughtless! And I can give you example after example after example
after example. In fact, I can show you their whole life history and show
you that it&rsquo;s a pattern that&rsquo;s been going on forever. What
me? think for a moment, [chuckling] that this bitch or this bastard
might be able to give me a gift that would change my life because of What
They Truly Are?&rdquo; No.

Now just for practicality, it may be that&mdash;humanly speaking, that
person does have this history, and the long list that you could spell
off might very well identify behaviors and attitudes that this one has
expressed. Oh Ms. perfect so-in-so you, who can provide the list, are
you really so perfect? Are you not standing there with self righteous
arrogant, awful judgmental thoughts about that person?  Does that embody
good character? Does your behavior reflect a worthiness that comes from
anywhere other than a great smallness of mind? Do you not need someone to
look at you no matter who it might be and see God there and be able to
reflect back to you your Holiness so that you might let go of your awful
thoughts about yourself?

And do they not, even in the midst of their bad behavior, need someone
to recognize that their bad behavior doesn&rsquo;t identify them, and
that their bad thoughts or unintelligent thoughts or incoherent thoughts
don&rsquo;t identify what they really are? Do they not deserve someone
who&rsquo;s willing to look beyond them because in order for there to be
any awful definition there, there has to be something Real
there that&rsquo;s been covered up by their own awful thoughts and the
awful thoughts of others, just like you?

You believe that you are your thoughts and you believe that others are
their thoughts. And you think that idea&mdash;that thought has substance
to it. You think that it is absolutely dependable. And so you hold onto
it as though it were an anchor. You anchor yourself in the thought. When
you need to be anchoring yourself in the Mind in which the thought was
occurring. You need to anchor yourself in the Mind in which that thought
is occurring so you can set the thought down. So that you can be silent and
move back into the state of attention that is the normal activity of
Mind.

Now, let&rsquo;s go into the book.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*Guiltlessness and Invulnerability*.[^1]

If you did not feel guilty, you COULD not attack, for condemnation is
the root of attack. It is the judgment of one mind by another as
UNWORTHY of love and DESERVING of punishment.
</div>

Now, that is the accepted definition of guilt. It is a different meaning
than I was using for the word, guilt, last week. And I just want to make
that distinction.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you did not feel guilty you COULD not attack.
</div>

See, if you didn&rsquo;t feel like you were out of your skin, if you
didn&rsquo;t feel as though you were in an unnatural state, in otherwords,
if you were in your peace and you therefore felt whole, you would never
attack.

But you do feel like you&rsquo;re out of your skin. You do feel like a
stranger in a strange land. You do feel out of place and at odds with
everything and out of sorts with everything and not being able to make
sense out of what everything is and not being able to fit in with it
because it&rsquo;s not like you.

And so you feel at a loss. Constantly at a loss in one way or anther to
one degree or another. I wonder why? Well, do you suppose it might be
because at some point you said, &ldquo;Father I&rsquo;d rather see it my
way. Father I would rather do it my way. Father I want a divorce. I want
to cut off communication with you for awhile and explore my capacities
on my own.&rdquo;

As we&rsquo;ve said over and over again, when you did that, which
you&rsquo;re capable of imagining you can do, you put yourself in a
position of forgetting your Source, because you pushed the Awareness of
your Source, your Father, out somewhere in the back forty of your mind.
And you said: &ldquo;I&rsquo;m just going to pay attention to the part
of the Infinity of my mind that&rsquo;s not behind me; that&rsquo;s not
where I shoved all the things I don&rsquo;t want to look at.&rdquo; And
this caused you to feel alone and isolated.

Now, as I also said last week, when you deny part of yourself, you
can&rsquo;t&mdash;it is something you cannot fully accomplish. You can
ignore Part of yourself, but you can&rsquo;t actually get rid of it in
that state of self-denial. And denying your Father is part of your
denying yourself, you will feel the fact that you are trying to do
something that is impossible and that therefore, your attempt is going to
be a futile attempt, which means that it&rsquo;s unintelligent. Or
we&rsquo;ll put it another way, stupid!

Ah, here&rsquo;s where you&rsquo;re faced with having to make a choice:
Are you going to take responsibility for and acknowledge that you are
doing something that won&rsquo;t work? that you&rsquo;re doing something
that is fundamentally wrong? And in the honesty of that acknowledgement,
stay in your Sanity? Or are you going to deny that you&rsquo;re misusing
your mind and fight for the right to stay in this state of ignorance,
without having to acknowledge that it&rsquo;s a state of ignorance? Are
you going to do something that is wrong, meaning that which can&rsquo;t
possibly be done&mdash;and that which won&rsquo;t work? Are you going to
deny that you&rsquo;re wrong and persist with a confidence that what
you&rsquo;re doing is not only possible because God gave you the right
to do it because He gave you free will and you are going to persist at
the expense of your Peace?

If you choose for that, you&rsquo;re choosing for insanity. And because
you will not be able to get rid of the discomfort&mdash;the dissonance
of being at odds with that which you can&rsquo;t successful being at odds
with, you will have to account for the discomfort in some other way than
owning it. Which means you&rsquo;re going to have to account for it by
disowning it. And you&rsquo;re going to have to blame something or
someone else. You see? You will feel guilty for doing something that
can&rsquo;t be done. And knowing that it can&rsquo;t be done,
you&rsquo;re going to persist anyway!

Now, if you&rsquo;re going to disown it and place it out there, it means
that every time you look into your brother&rsquo;s eyes, you are
not going to remember God. It isn&rsquo;t that you will forget to. It is
that you have decided&mdash;actually ahead of time&mdash;that
you&rsquo;re not going to let your brother look at you and remember God,
and let that have any effect on you! Why? Because if you did that, you
would have to come back into your Right Mind and acknowledge:
&ldquo;Yes, I have chosen to do something that is impossible and I know
it&rsquo;s impossible. But I&rsquo;m insisting on doing it anyway. I am
doing something unintelligent. I am being stupid.&rdquo; You see?
That&rsquo;s what would have to happen if you would let your brother look
at you and remember God, and bathe you in his clear awareness of you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you did not feel guilty, you COULD not attack, for condemnation is
the root of attack. It is the judgment of one mind by another as
UNWORTHY of Love, and deserving of punishment. But herein lies the
split. For the mind that judges perceives itself as SEPARATE from the
mind being judged,&hellip;
</div>

&ldquo;Oh that so-and-so over there, that bitch, that bastard.
[chuckling] They&rsquo;re not like me. We&rsquo;ve got no connection.
They&rsquo;re their own independent soul just like I am.
That&rsquo;s about the only thing we have in common.&rdquo; You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For the mind that judges sees itself as separate from the mind being
judged, believing that by punishing another, it will escape punishment.
</div>

So you blame the other one so that you don&rsquo;t have to look at what
you&rsquo;re really doing. And you think that by blaming the other one,
you&rsquo;ll escape the punishment&mdash;the penalty&mdash;that you will
escape having to pay attention to the ever-present dissonance that you
are actually experiencing because you&rsquo;re trying to do the
impossible, and deny some part of yourself, which is Forever Whole, and
Forever Unchangeable&mdash;Forever Unalterable. And therefore, as long
as you persist in trying to deny Part or All of What You Divinely Are,
you will feel the insanity of the attempt!

And so, no matter how much you project it out and blame everyone else
and everything else, the discomfort&mdash;the dissonance&mdash;will not
disappear. Why? Because you haven&rsquo;t abandoned any of the thinking
and let yourself sink back into the normal use of your mind; the normal
function of your mind, which is not thinking at all, but is pure,
unadulterated attentiveness &hellip; attention.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
All this is but the delusional attempt of the mind to &hellip; what?
deny itself and ESCAPE THE PENALTY OF DENIAL.
</div>

Now, what needs to be clear here is that you usually think of penalty as
something that is assigned some time after the offense has occurred.
Somebody commits an offense.  Oh, he&rsquo;s arrested. He&rsquo;s put in
jail. A court date is set.  Attorneys are hired. They present their
cases. Guilt is decided, and then a penalty is set.

But you see, the only penalty there is here, is the
instantaneous experience of the fact that you can&rsquo;t become insane.
And what I mean by that is, that when you attempt to deny What You Are,
which is an attempt to do the impossible, the energy you bring to bear
upon ignoring some Part of your Self is inseparably accompanied by a
dissonance; the discomfort that comes from using your mind wrongly. It
is simultaneous with the attempt. And it is as strong as the attempt. So
if you push against an immovable object, you could say it presses back
with equal force, because the attempt is an attempt to change something
that can&rsquo;t change. So the penalty is simultaneous, and equal to
the amount of energy you bring to the attempt to be out of your mind.

And what&rsquo;s pressing back against your attempt to be out of your
mind is your innate Sanity, that cannot never be lost!

And so it&rsquo;s always an immediate and equal standoff. You push
against Truth and you experience the impossibility of there being any
effect of your pushing against Truth. And it&rsquo;s equal to the
attempt. And the attempt is thwarted. And, as long as you persist in the
attempt, it will bean on going standoff. Until what? Until finally you
arrive at a point where you say: &ldquo;Whew. It&rsquo;s not worth the
effort. I&rsquo;m not getting where I thought I would be going. This is
too hard.  I&rsquo;m wearing myself out.&rdquo; And you arrive at a
point of giving up pushing against the Truth, or denying Something that
can&rsquo;t be gotten rid of.

And inevitably you stop intellectually or mentally insisting upon doing
what can&rsquo;t be done. And your mind becomes still, and you have a
holy moment&mdash;a moment of holiness because in the absence of the noise
of your thinking, the sounds of Heaven that have always been going in your
attention can register.

So &hellip; 

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
All this is but the delusional attempt of the mind to deny itself and
ESCAPE THE PENALTY OF DENIAL. It is not an attempt to RELINQUISH denial,
but to HOLD ON to it. For it is guilt that has obscured the Father to
you, and it is guilt that has driven you insane.

The acceptance of guilt into the mind of God&rsquo;s Son was the
beginning of the separation, as the acceptance of the Atonement is its
end.
</div>

If you only Knew What You Were. If you only knew Who You Really Are. And
Knowing Who and What You Are is what lies in store for you awaiting your
willingness to let It in. Because It&rsquo;s Awesome. Right now It is
Awesome, as you sit there, as you listen. And the only thing that keeps
you from experiencing It is you think you have your identity pegged. You
think you&rsquo;ve got it down. Why? Because you can explain it.
And then, using other thoughts, you can justify your explanation. And on
and on and on.

Really &hellip; really begin to devalue whatever definition of yourself
you&rsquo;ve been employing, whether it&rsquo;s one that&rsquo;s
excellent or whether it&rsquo;s one that&rsquo;s awful. It doesn&rsquo;t
matter. It doesn&rsquo;t matter what the explanation or the definition
or the justification is. It doesn&rsquo;t matter whether it&rsquo;s a
good one or a bad one. Either way it&rsquo;s a structure of thoughts and
either way they blind you from the experience of the Awesomeness of What
You Are As Mind that is available to you when you abandon the thoughts
and the definitions and the concepts.

We&rsquo;re sort of narrowing down the situation into its fundamental
simplicity. Because as I said, you all know you have available to you right
now the means to be thought-less. You have the means. Even if it&rsquo;s
only been momentary for you at times, you&rsquo;ve had the experience of
Silence &hellip; of Being without thought, beyond thought however you
might want to put it.

What you didn&rsquo;t know was that that silence is the threshold of you
coming back into your Right Mind And that therefore, it is of Infinitely
greater value than any thought you might fill your mind with!

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The world you see is the delusional system of those made mad by guilt.
Look carefully at this world and you will realize that this is so.
</div>

Just look in your own household or turn on the TV and look at the insanity
going on in your world. And notice how the insanity that is being
carried out has its basis in mindsets, whether it&rsquo;s national
mindsets, whether it&rsquo;s racial mindsets, whether it&rsquo;s
military mindsets, whether it&rsquo;s political mindsets, what is being
carried out is occurring because people are not being able to let go of
the definitions and the rules that they have thought up, that they
further think constitutes their salvation.

Notice this when you watch the news. And then, take advantage of its
transfer value, because sometimes it&rsquo;s easier to see about someone
else what you can&rsquo;t see about yourself, but which is absolutely
true about yourself. Recognizing that it&rsquo;s true about yourself is
the beginning of Sanity, because it&rsquo;s the beginning of being able
to take responsibility for what you&rsquo;re doing. And once you take
responsibility for it; once you own the fact that: &ldquo;Hey. Yes, I am
doing that too.&rdquo;You&rsquo;re in a position where you can change
your mind. Or, I&rsquo;m going to say: Change the use to which
you&rsquo;re putting your mind. And practice letting go of thinking. And
practice &ldquo;the Silence.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Look carefully at this world, and you will realize that this is so. For
this world is the symbol of punishment, and all the laws which seem to
govern it are the laws of death. Children are born into it through pain
and in pain their growth is attended by suffering, and they learn of
sorrow and separation and death.  Their minds are trapped in their
brain&hellip;
</div>

or at least that&rsquo;s what they&rsquo;re led to believe

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Their minds are trapped in their brain, and its powers decline if their
bodies are hurt. They seem to love, yet they desert and are deserted.
They appear to lose what they love, perhaps the most insane belief of
all.  And their bodies wither and gasp, and are laid in the ground and
seem to be no more. Not one of them but has thought that God is cruel.

If this were the Real World, God WOULD be cruel, for no Father could
subject His Children to this as the price of salvation and be loving.
Love does not kill to save. LOVE DOES NOT KILL TO SAVE. If it did,
attack would be salvation, And this is the EGO&rsquo;s interpretation.
NOT God&rsquo;s.
</div>

So, here it is:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Only the world of guilt could demand this, for only the guilty could
CONCEIVE of it.
</div>

Got to be careful here because it makes it sound as though there is
someone who could really be guilty. The whole experience of guilt is a
resultof a poor use, an improper useof the mind. Not the normal use of
the mind.

And as long as the improper&mdash;or not normal&mdash;use of the mind is
occurring, the description we just read of your experience of the world
will persist. Not because it&rsquo;s actual, but because you&rsquo;ve made
a commitment to making up definitions about what you&rsquo;re seeing,and
you&rsquo;ve chosen to commit to those definitions and ignore the fact
that you&rsquo;re making them up. Ignore the fact that in committing to
them you are choosing to refuse to see What Everything Really Is. And
you&rsquo;re doing it by means of the thoughts you&rsquo;re thinking.

And the Answer to the dilemma is simple! Abandon the thinking and start
listening. Because when you listen for the Truth, what are you going to
hear the Truth about? You&rsquo;re going to hear the Truth about
everything that you&rsquo;ve been believing a lie about and committing
yourself to.

And so by listening, you won&rsquo;t be transported out of this cruel
world. You&rsquo;ll be transported out of context of thinking about
Reality, in which everything is screwed up, into the Awareness of
Reality As It Is. And thereby, everything you have been seeing in a
distorted fashion, you will now see clearly. It will not constitute a
loss of anything meaningful, but the regaining of the Actual, Divine
Holy Awesome capital M Meaning of everything you had applied an awful,
little, tiny, demeaning definition to, in an attempt to secure an
identity that you could never have privately&hellip; all alone.

Now,the subject tonight is not serious. Nor is it something for you to
become depressed about or worried about. I have expressed the ideas with
excellent logic, which your thinking mind can appreciate. But the logic
and the clarity with which I&rsquo;ve shared it gives you a trigger for
moving beyond your logic, and consider a new way of Being. And,
perhaps, even a curiosity to try to employ listening rather than thinking!

What we&rsquo;ve been discussing tonight is essential to what we&rsquo;re
going to be discussing as we move further on. And so, I encourage you
all to review it, because of the benefit it holds for you between now and
next week.

I have extended to you an Excellent Gift: A Gift of Excellence &mdash;
the Function of Which is to uncover your Excellence, so that you might
consider It a possibility, rather than an impossibility.

I Love You All. And I look forward to Being with you next
week. Don&rsquo;t be afraid of the Truth. &ldquo;Ye shall know the Truth,
and the Truth shall set you free.&rdquo; And let Me just say that
doesn&rsquo;t mean; Ye shall know the Truth that you already know, and
the Truth shall set you free. It means; Ye shall Know the
Truth&mdash;What It Really Is. And in the aha! and the insight and the
revelation that follows, you will be set free.

Let your desire be to know the Truth that&rsquo;s greater than any of your
present concepts of Truth. Okay.

[^1]: T11.9 Guiltlessness and Invulnerability

