---
title: Jun 10, 2006
ref: "T11.9 Guiltlessness and Invulnerability"
alink: "/acim/text/11/chap1109/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

Well, how many of you had an interesting time this week observing your
thinking? Let&rsquo;s say, how many of you didn&rsquo;t succeed getting
thru the week without noticing how you use your thoughts to one degree
or another?

How many of you found out that your thoughts are always from the past?
If you, I&rsquo;m not going to say, &ldquo;think about it&rdquo; If you
pay attention, you&rsquo;ll realize your thoughts are always a rehearsal
of something already known. Not one of you has ever had an original
brand new thought. That which is new is described by the word,
&ldquo;insight&rdquo; or as an &ldquo;aha&rdquo; or as
&ldquo;revelation.&rdquo; That&rsquo;s when something new is
experienced. And once the something new has happened, you can then think
about it. That should be a big eye-opener.

Whenever you are thinking, you are rehearsing something from the past.

If you live in your thinking, you&rsquo;re living in the past.
You&rsquo;re not even living in the present. You are thinking about
whatever is confronting you. You observe it not with your mind, but with
your thinking. &ldquo;Oh, that&rsquo;s a bald-headed eagle, Oh,
that&rsquo;s a swallow, Oh, that&rsquo;s a fir tree &hellip; Oh, it
looks like rain.&rdquo; You&rsquo;re always looking with your thinking.
You&rsquo;re always looking with what you already think you know. Again,
that means that your general method of being or of operating is one
ofliving in the past. That in itself should impel you to question the
way you be presently because you don&rsquo;t want to be trapped in the
past.

You don&rsquo;t want your very existence to be an ever occurring
rehearsal of that which is old. I mean after all, when you have family
members who are getting into their senior years and all they do is begin
to talk about what happened in 1945 or when they met Joe, and what
they did on their first date and every time you get together you hear
some tid-bit about the past, you say, ohhhh they&rsquo;re beginning to
suffer from senility. And you don&rsquo;t feel good about it.

So why feel good about yourselves, when you, even when you think you
arefunctioning in the present, aresimply rehearsing the past?

Now we&rsquo;ve talked and talked and talked about looking at everything
with fresh eyes. Looking at everything with innocent eyes, meaning,
absent the influence of past experience, past concepts, past
convictions,and being curious to seeing the More of what God is being
Right there than what you&rsquo;re presently seeing. It&rsquo;s wise
counsel.

Now, change of subject. Who are rules for? You all know thatrules exist.
But who are rules for? Rules are for those who have forgotten how to
Love. Rules are an artificial means of establishing and maintaining
order and harmony when order and harmony do not naturally occur. Why
don&rsquo;t they naturally occur? Because you have forgotten how to
Love. How did you forget how to Love? By getting a divorce from your
Father. By saying, &ldquo;I&rsquo;d rather see it my way. I&rsquo;d
rather do it my way. I want to be the determiner of what everything is.
I want to be the determiner of what happens. I want to try my hand at
being the authorityin my life.&rdquo; And so in effect you pulled the
plug&mdash;disconnected yourself from your Source. Forgot who you were,
lost the experience of the movement of Love through you that the Father
is Being by Presencing Himself right there where you are. And you found
yourself without natural harmony.

But you had just had the experience of harmony. So quickly, you decided
what you needed to do to re-establish what had disappeared by your own
hand, by your own authority. And the only way you could do it was by
establishing a mutual agreement with someone else as to what good
behavior was constituted of and that everyone had better abide by this,
so that there is a certain degree of peace and security for everyone.

So, structures, ideas were brought together in structures or patterns to
be abided by. They were called, &ldquo;manners&rdquo; They were called
&ldquo;codes of behavior.&rdquo; They were called, &ldquo;Protocols by
which to live.&rdquo; And to date, a certain amount of harmony has been
established. It fluctuates. But a certain amount of harmony has been
established. But you know what? It&rsquo;s a harmony that depends
entirely upon mutual agreements. And if the mutual agreements are
abandoned, harmony ceases. So even when there&rsquo;s a certain modicum
of harmony, it&rsquo;s not really Real. It&rsquo;s simply the current
evidence of quote,&rdquo;good behavior.&rdquo; That&rsquo;s not
security. That&rsquo;s not stability. And it wouldn&rsquo;t do me a bit
of good to point this out to you, because the Truth of what I&rsquo;m
saying is unsettling.

I&rsquo;m saying it in this context: That there is a natural harmony.
There is a natural order. Because there is Love. And there is Love
because there is a God. There is a something beyond whatever tiny
authority each of you has created out of whole cloth, out of imagination
and convinced yourself that you have. And it&rsquo;s your birthright to
be experiencing this Love. It is natural to youfor this Love to flow
through you because you are undefended against it. Because you are
willing to be without limits or boundaries. And it&rsquo;s time for you
to re-access It. It&rsquo;s time for you to stop suffering in ignorance
of what you are and of what your function is.

It&rsquo;s time for you to become free of rules. Oh boy, the ego can
have a hey-day with that. A lot of New Age thinking does revolve around
the idea that rules areopinions,rules aren&rsquo;tReal. And that one
must learn to let go and move freely and just be whatever you feel like
being. But see, that&rsquo;s still doesn&rsquo;t embrace the fact that
there is a God. In other words, there is some Universal Absolute. Some
Universal consistent Movement of Be-ing that is so pure, that it is
without conflict, without opposites, and for this reason, it is Eternal.
And for this reason, there is Something going on for you to have a
misperception of. And you will forever have Something to have a
misperception of because Reality is permanent. Reality is Eternal.

You have to arrive at a point where you stop valuing your perception of
Reality; of This that is forever Changeless, but forever New.

Now, when I&rsquo;m talking to you, I&rsquo;m not talking to who you
think you are. And I&rsquo;m not talking to the patterns of thoughts
that you have adopted in order to define yourself and define your world.
I&rsquo;m talking to the You that you Are. I&rsquo;m talking to the You
that is the Place where the Movement of God is happening. I&rsquo;m
talking to God right there, where each of You Is. You don&rsquo;t think
that&rsquo;s what&rsquo;s there. But I persistin talking to the You that
is there, and telling You that It Is there, and I will continue to
encourage you to stop denying it and to open the door just a crack
through the use of curiosity.

Now, what does this mean? This means that I am standing as an Advocate
for You and You and You and You and You and You and everyone watching. I
am standing as an Advocate for the Real You. I am standing in a Place of
confirming and reconfirming to You a Self that you are inclined to deny
the existence of. A Self that you don&rsquo;t believe that you can
really be. Why? Because you&rsquo;re so damned attached to the
definitionyou&rsquo;ve made up about yourself&mdash;to your thoughts!

And what am I doing? I&rsquo;m setting an Example. What I am doing is
showing You what You need to be doing. You need to be standing as an
Advocate for your Brother and Sister. Being willing to not be deterred
by your Brothersor Sisters insistence that they are nothing but their
accumulated thoughts and their insistence upon operating on the basis of
the past themselves.

How many of you during this past week wanted to not think, but to look
into your Brother&rsquo;s eyes, with innocence and listen for, be open
to, the Revelation or the experience of the Truth about your Brother and
had your Brother, figuratively speaking, spit in your face, or treat you
really badly? And how many of you found, that when a Brother or Sister
was behaving in a totally gross way, that you immediately reverted
tothinking? Immediately reverted to your pre-existing definitions of
them? &ldquo;Well, of course, what could I have expected? Of course
they&rsquo;re behaving this way&mdash;that is the way they are and they
have a history of behaving this way!&rdquo;

What &hellip; what was that? What just happened? You obviously
weren&rsquo;t being still were you? There wasn&rsquo;t silence, was
there? There wasn&rsquo;t a willingness to stand there in the face of
the flack coming toward you. There wasn&rsquo;t in you, in the face of
the flack coming toward you, a state of disbelief, a willingness of not
validate the flack and not validate it with a history to back it up and
convict your Brother or Sister further and solidify the picture.

When a Brother or Sister behaves in a way that seems to threaten your
Peace, you will automatically shift into thinking. You will
automatically shift into the past and join them. They, in their past,
you in your past, thinking that you&rsquo;re present with each other in
the Present, instead of totally embroiled in your own private pictures
and your own private thoughts and definitions.

What&rsquo;s a definition? It&rsquo;s a thought that&rsquo;s been
rehearsed and rehearsed and rehearsed and rehearsed and rehearsed until
its dug a groove so-to-speak. And then it sits there even if
you&rsquo;re not thinking it. You have rules and definitions already in
place about everybody and everything. Even things you don&rsquo;t know
about. I mean, you wouldn&rsquo;t say that that was possible, but the
minute anybody presents something new to you that you haven&rsquo;t
heard about before, watch and see what fraction of a second it takes for
you to have an opinion about it. Just a fraction of a second.
[chuckling]

You know what? If you are sued for one reason or another, and you have
to go into Court, you seek an attorney. What does that mean? You seek an
advocate to stand with you in order to bring out the truth so that
you&rsquo;re not convicted falsely. And that one has to be willing to
stand as an advocate for you no matter how much argument regarding your
guilt is brought forth. No matter how convincingly it is put. No matter
whether the arguments against you are dishonest an evil in intent, or
whether they are not really that bad but are demeaning about you. You
need someone who is not going to be swayed by false arguments stated
beautifully; stated well, stated intelligently, stated logically.

You are not orphans! You are not what you think you are. You are not
bodies getting old, deteriorating. . subject to deterioration. You are
not something that started with a sperm and an egg. You are not a
physical development in process. You are again, Mind. You are the
conscious Awareness in which all experience is going on including the
experience of body. Now I&rsquo;m repeating myself, but you need to hear
the repetition.Because it&rsquo;s so easy for you to slip back into your
thinking.

Now, if thinking is a rehearsal of the past, then it means that thinking
is always a form of habit. You&rsquo;re not inclined to change your
habits. You&rsquo;re not inclined to abandon your habits. You need help.
You need encouragement. That&rsquo;s what I&rsquo;m here for. And
that&rsquo;s what the Holy spirit is here for. That&rsquo;s what, that
which is nothing more thanyour right mind is here for. That which you
divinely are is present and active with you right now on behalf
ofun-rutting you from your thinking.

How many of you during this past week, found your thinking getting you
into trouble over and over and over again? Something would happen, and
instead of staying in that place where you held your Vision innocently,
you slipped into a stream of thoughts, a rehearsal of the past that
always put someone else at a disadvantage. And then, remembering what we
hadtalked about last week, you realized, &ldquo;Oh boy, I did it again!
I abandoned my Peace. I abandoned my valuing the Silence in which Love,
the Vision of Christ, the Father&rsquo;s perfect Vision of everything
could occur. And so, I&rsquo;ve made myself miserable and I&rsquo;m
going to stop now and get back into my peace.&rdquo;

And you got back into your Peace and perspective returned. The situation
that had caused you to lose your mind hasn&rsquo;t changed but
you&rsquo;re able to look at it without getting into your knee-jerk
habitual responses. And in the process of being willing to stay with the
situation from your Peace, something else happened that caused you to
feel vulnerable again (snaps fingers) and just like that, you&rsquo;re
back thinking&mdash;you&rsquo;re back being angry&mdash;you&rsquo;re
back justifying your being angry and convicting the one who caught you
off guard, of guilt. How many of you had this happen multiple
times&mdash;enough times that you&rsquo;re now able to look back without
judgment on yourself but with the clarity that allows you to see how it
happens&mdash;the mechanics of it. So that you can look at it a little
bit more objectively and thereby more easily avoid it when the next
trigger comes?

For many its been a week of a great deal of growth, strenuous as it
might have been. But of course what made it strenuous was, the ease with
which you slipped back into the habit of thinking and valuing and
validating the thinking.

Now, it should have become obvious to you that in the process of
validating your thinking and valuing it, you became an absolute block to
healing. You became an absolute block to Redemption. You became that
which reinforced the problem. And that&rsquo;s not what this is all
about and it isn&rsquo;t what you want. That awareness has value because
it helps you see how unproductive your habit of thinking is. Not only
did your habit of thinking confirm the problem,it caused you to feel
misery. It caused you to feel as though you were in the middle of an
absolutely untenable situation which you had no choice about&mdash;no
authority to do anything about. It caused you to be trapped. It
didn&rsquo;t serve you well. And you need to be willing to look at it.
You need to able to see it so that you can say with genuineness,&rdquo;I
don&rsquo;t want this experience&mdash;I don&rsquo;tvalue this
experience! I am not going to do again what I&rsquo;ve just done that
made me miserable.&rdquo;

Now the likelihood is that you will do it again. But when the resolve is
there from a place of genuineness in you, you&rsquo;re next response,
you&rsquo;re next foray into the habit of thinking won&rsquo;t catch you
as significantly and you won&rsquo;t stay in it as long. And you will
step out of it and you will begin to establish a new kind of experience
where using thinking occurs less and less and each time for a shorter
and shorter duration.

You know what? Mind Itself is a Movement. Mind is a very, for lack of
better words, fluid thing. It&rsquo;s not made out of matter. It
doesn&rsquo;t move in accordance with laws of physics. It moves with
utter Grace and fluidity. Uninhibited. And it always moves as the
manifestation or visibility of the Movement of God which is ineffably
and awesomely beautiful. You are Mind. That&rsquo;s not what you think.
But that is what You Are. And there needs to be, as I&rsquo;ve said
before,a shift from body identification with Mind identification. You
need to start identifying with Mind&mdash;your Mind.

Now you&rsquo;ll find that your thinking, contrary to what I&rsquo;ve
just said, defines everything as an object including your Brother and
Sister. And so you treat them as though they are not a movement of
fluidity. And so, when you take rules&mdash;rules of behavior, rules of
etiquette, protocols, and you apply them to this object that you have
made in your mind of something that is an utterly fluid, uninhibited
movement of harmony and order, you&rsquo;re bringing what I&rsquo;m
going to call, two different orders of reality into play that
don&rsquo;t blend. Because one of the orders of reality that
you&rsquo;re bringing into play, is Reality itself and the other order
of reality that you&rsquo;rebringing into play, is unreality.. is
nothing more than your bad habits..your ignorance that you are committed
to and believe in andmaintain with all your heart and with all your
might.

And so you bring these two things that don&rsquo;t have any means of
interfacing with each other and you try to apply one to the other. And
there can&rsquo;t be any resolution that way. The only way there&rsquo;s
going to be a resolution is when you stop addressing, when you look into
your Brother&rsquo;s eyes, the object you have conceived of him to be.
And instead, you insist upon holding yourself to the goal, I&rsquo;m
going to say, the intent to see nothing less than what is Really there.
So that you don&rsquo;t bind them or convict them to a point that they
couldn&rsquo;t possibly exist at. And then try to enforce it. Because
that isn&rsquo;t standing as an Advocate for them. And that will not
constitute a connection with What they Really Are that can trigger a
sudden shift of perception in which they abandon their commitment to
their ignorant thoughts about themselves.

You think that you look out there and the world is full of what? People,
people, objects, people. Did you ever think that maybe
you&rsquo;re looking out at and seeing, and I don&rsquo;t want you to
hold onto these words, but I&rsquo;m going to put it this way, that you
are seeing works in process, works in progress, movements that are truly
unfettered by things that don&rsquo;t really exist? If you can&rsquo;t
look out at your Brother and Sister and see a Movement in Process and
all you see is an object that you have defined in your mind, and then
you apply rules of behavior that objects are supposed to operate
according to, you will not be a Presence that is an Agent for Change.
Because you&rsquo;re caught in the unreality of your own definitions.
You&rsquo;re caught in the unreality of yourthinking. You&rsquo;re
caught in a freeze-dried frame&mdash;one frame out of a total movement.
A forever unending Movement. And you&rsquo;re saying, &ldquo;This is
what I&rsquo;m seeing. This is what is there!&rdquo; And all the time,
the Movement has continued to identify God.

Now, you do this to your brother. Why? Because you&rsquo;re doing it to
yourself and you don&rsquo;t want to look at the fact that you&rsquo;re
doing it to yourself. You are holding yourselves to your own made-up
definitions. You think a certain way about yourself. And I promise you
that whether the way you think of yourself is good and positive and full
of self-appreciation, or whether you think of yourself in a
self-depreciating way, in a constant state of self-attack, either way is
not valid because you&rsquo;re thinking about yourself. You&rsquo;re
caught in thoughts. Thoughts are pictures. Not the real thing. And the
moment you can begin to see this and then remember, &ldquo;Wait a
minute, I am Mind, not body, not an object&mdash;not a thing to think
about. I am Mind, that which is in forever, constant Movement that is
unfettered and always reflecting the forever newness the Movement of God
because God is Mind.&rdquo;

You&rsquo;ve got to be willing to consciously choose for letting go of
your thoughts about yourself. How many of you have sat down with a photo
album and as you go thru it, you say, &ldquo;Oh, and there I was when I
was sixteen&mdash;you&rsquo;re showing your kids&mdash;And there I was
when I met your Dad&mdash;Oh, and there I am swimming in Lake Tahoe,
I&rsquo;ll never forget that summer&mdash;wow it was really
something!&rdquo; As though you were that object in that picture in that
place when you were the conscious Awareness in which that experience was
going off, when the picture was taken. And right now, as you look at the
pictures, you are that conscious Awareness which is not caught in any of
those freeze-dried frames, still unfettered.

What does it say in the Course? It says, &ldquo;I am not a body&mdash;I
am still free to be as God created me.&rdquo; God created me to be,
Be-ing Movement, unfettered Movement of Grace and Harmony and awesome
beauty and all the Universe, all that is, is embraced in this Movement
ofMe. You see. You are in a process of freeing yourself from your
addiction to freeze-fried frames. You are freeing yourself from the past
that you hold in place by means of thoughts that can reflect nothing but
the past and you think thatthose thoughts identify you when that which
identifies you is the conscious awareness in which all of this is going
on. Right now you are the Ultimate.

&ldquo;Oh yeah, (looking thru the photo album) . yeah, there I am, you
know, waiting for bail to be set &hellip; and there I am with my
bail-bondsman aswe came out of the jailhouse &hellip; and Harriet was
waiting for me in the car and we had to get back with the other guys
because we were trying to divide up the loot before we got caught
&hellip; and, oh yeah, and there I am after I got out of the
penitentiary &hellip;&rdquo;

It doesn&rsquo;t matter whether the pictures are about bad things or
swimming in Lake Tahoe&mdash;having a good time and a wonderful summer.
You&rsquo;re not the picture. You&rsquo;re not any of the pictures. And
neither are your Brothers and Sisters. You know what? You gotta throw
the photo album away. And you gotta say, &ldquo;Hey, look at
me&mdash;what you see is what you get! I&rsquo;m not anything else in
another time. And you know what? I know that what you&rsquo;re seeing
isn&rsquo;t even what you think it is. I know that this is the
visibility and tangibility&mdash;it is what identifies a divine
Movement. I know that this that I call a body, is nothing but an Idea, I
didn&rsquo;t say a thought, it&rsquo;s nothing but an Idea in the Mind
of God which is perfectly intangible but experienceable. And it is not
bound by laws of physics.&rdquo; Just as your body is the same, not
bound by physics. Not waiting for a disease to advance and take its
toll. Not even waiting for healing to occur.

In other words, it isn&rsquo;t a thing waiting for bad things to happen
or for good things to happen. It&rsquo;s not any definition that you
could apply to it. It is right now, the visibility and tangibility of
the moving of intangible Order and Harmony, which although its
intangible, is perfectly experienceable. And it is what you&rsquo;re
experiencing right now. But you are experiencing it through some
definitions. You&rsquo;re experiencing it through some thought patterns
that stand in the way of your experiencing What it truly Is.

Now, I am your Advocate telling you how it is.Even though its very
different from what you have believed it is. And you need someone to be
able to tell you that. Else you don&rsquo;t have a chance of
spontaneously getting out of your habit. And, your Brother has need of
you to stand as his advocate. Your Sister&mdash;everything has need for
you to stand as its advocate illuminating what the truth is even if its
met with disbelieve. Even if its met with argument. Even if its met with
unpleasant responses. So all of this is very important.

Now let&rsquo;s go to the book.

I&rsquo;m backing up a couple of lines:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
LOVE DOES NOT KILL TO SAVE. If it did, attack would be salvation and
this is the ego&rsquo;s interpretation. Not God&rsquo;s. Only the world
of guilt could demand this for only the guilty could conceive of it.[^1]
</div>

The Spirit of the Law saves. The letter of the Law kills. The letter of
the Law does not embody Love, compassion. It&rsquo;s hard-nosed, its
factual, it says, and its absolute. But without Love to temper the
letter of the Law, Law does not fulfill its function.

Well, the argument can be put, if we do not abide by the letter of the
Law, we will be lost. And the Law says, &ldquo;An eye for an eye, and a
tooth for a tooth&rdquo; So pluck out that eye. That one took a life.
Take his. That&rsquo;s the letter of the Law. And because the letter of
the Law is abided by because it is believed that that is one&rsquo;s
salvation, or society&rsquo;s salvation, it expresses the idea that
Salvation expressed as the letter of the Law being carried out, is at
the bottom line, really Love. It&rsquo;s Love because it saves society.
You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
LOVE DOES NOT KILL TO SAVE. If it did, attack WOULD be salvation and
this is the ego&rsquo;s interpretation, NOT God&rsquo;s. Only the world
of guilt could demand this for only the guilty could CONCEIVE of it.
Adam&rsquo;s &ldquo;sin&rdquo;could have touched none of you had you not
believed that it was the FATHER Who drove him out of paradise.
</div>

Ok everybody, let&rsquo;s back up. How many of you believe that? You
know about Adam and Eve right? And you think, if you are a believer,that
there was a beginning to Creation. And there was Adam and Eve and they
were in the Garden of Eden. And certain events occurred and what
happened? One of two individuals said, &ldquo;You know, our Father said
not to do this, but you know what? Let&rsquo;s try it our way.&rdquo;
You see, that&rsquo;s the beginning of getting a divorce from the
Father. &ldquo;I&rsquo;d rather do it my way.&rdquo; But you know what?
It takes two to join together in order to validate it. There has to be
one that says, &ldquo;I&rsquo;d rather see it my way&mdash;I&rsquo;d
rather do what I think I aught to do.&rdquo; Well, that&rsquo;s just a
spurious thought. That&rsquo;s just a thought that hangs in the ethers.
But if there&rsquo;s someone else to entice into joining in that intent,
now there are two believers with a single intent, a joined intent and
the thought can seem to become valid.

Well, its interesting isn&rsquo;t it,that it was Eve who tempted Adam. I
mean, we all know that men tempt women don&rsquo;t we? We all know that
men can lead women down the merry path to oblivion. But its interesting
that it was a women who was a temptress. Right?Well, when that story got
written down, [laughing]who was it written by? It was written by a man,
or men, and these men already believed that they were orphans right? So
they&rsquo;re going to see their world in terms of conflict and
temptation and the need for mutual agreements and so forth. But wait a
minute. That there were objects in time . . somewhere in the distant or
the far reaches of the past, that did certain things, is not true.
It&rsquo;s a thought. It&rsquo;s a thought that hasbeen fleshed out with
details. The fact is, that the Adam and Eve story is like the story
I&rsquo;ve been sharing with you about orphans. And I&rsquo;ve also made
it clear that none of you are orphans even though you believe you are.

Well, likewise, there never was a temptress and there never was a
tempted. Because no one, not even Adam and Eve ever stopped
being&mdash;what God was Be-ing right there even though they believed
differently. So, they believed differently about themselves and they
said, &ldquo;OK, we&rsquo;re going to make a new rule: It&rsquo;s OK to
eat the fruit from this tree. And we&rsquo;re going to do it!&rdquo; And
they did it. Theyunplugged themselves. Right? They said,
&ldquo;I&rsquo;d rather do it my way. Father, you&rsquo;re not governing
things anymore.&rdquo; They pulled the plug out. No more juice&mdash;no
more connection with the Father. And they experienced suddenly, what it
meant to be orphans. &ldquo;Oh, God kicked me out of the Kingdom of
Heaven!&rdquo; See. Totally irresponsibility there. They didn&rsquo;t
say, &ldquo;Oh, we pulled the plug . .and all we need to do is to plug
the plug back in.&rdquo; You see? &ldquo;Or, all we have to do is
remember that at any time we want we can plug the plug back in.&rdquo;

But no. They blocked out the fact that they pulled the plug and
dissociated themselves from the conscious experience of Reality as it
Is. They blockedit out. And then they said, &ldquo;The Father kicked us
out of the Kingdom of Heaven.&rdquo;

Well, that&rsquo;s just an allegorical way of saying what I&rsquo;ve
been saying allegorically by describing you as, well I&rsquo;m going to
call it, naturalized orphans. You know you have naturalized citizens?
Those are citizens who weren&rsquo;t really citizens before. But through
certain processes of the law, they can become citizens of a country. And
so they&rsquo;re called, naturalized citizens. And you&rsquo;ve all
become naturalized orphans. You have granted yourself the right to have
an experience that is impossible for you to have. And you believethe
gift you gave yourself, so completely that you are unwilling to consider
any other possibility. Oh, know you say, I&rsquo;m not totally against
it. But when I sit here and say, right here and right now that you are
the full blown Christ, you can&rsquo;t believe it!

You say, &ldquo;I can&rsquo;t wrap my mind around it!&rdquo; Whatever.
There&rsquo;s an unwillingness&mdash;there&rsquo;s a reluctance &hellip;
you say, &ldquo;an inability&rdquo; &mdash;Bullshit! I&rsquo;m telling
you it&rsquo;s Bullshit! You have the capacity because you are the
capacity.

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Adam&rsquo;s &ldquo;sin&rdquo; could have touch none of you had you not
believed that it was the FATHER who drove him out of Paradise. For in
that belief the knowledge of the Father was lost, &hellip; when the plug
was pulled out, the knowledge of theFather was lostsince only those who
do NOT understand Him &hellip; the Father &hellip; COULD believe it.
</div>

So let&rsquo;s be very clear: That there was an Adam and an Eve who had
an original idea, &ldquo;Let&rsquo;s do it our way, let&rsquo;s eat of
this tree even though we&rsquo;re told not to.&rdquo; Even though you
have that story. and even though it&rsquo;s believed that it&rsquo;s
happened over many, many thousands of years ago at the beginning when
Creation occurred. And centuries and centuries and centurieshave passed,
and everyone has been wandering in the wilderness having been cast out!
Nooooo&hellip; those are just ideas floating around that you&rsquo;ve
taken a-hold of and validated and behaved as though they were true when
Adam and Eve were then, and are now, the full blown Christ&mdash;just as
you are,Mind in which the experience of Universe is going on, and in
which time is not going on.

And so you could say that although the story says they were caught in a
thought, and everyone else down through the centuries has remained
caught in a thought&mdash;and you&rsquo;re caught in a thought,
it&rsquo;s not true! Because they couldn&rsquo;t ever pull the plug. You
know why? Because you&rsquo;re hard-wired to God. You are inseparable!
And what you think you&rsquo;ve done, you haven&rsquo;t accomplished.

But you see how it is? Do you see how it is, that it could be believed
that God drove them out of the Garden&mdash;just the same way you
believe that you are in quote&rdquo;the human condition&rdquo; unquote
and nothing divine is truly true about you? Even though you wish it
could be. The Father has not kicked you out. You have never become
disconnected from the Father. You and your Father are still One. And you
are not bodies, objects, freeze-dried pictures&mdash;material forms. You
are still free to be. . Being. . Movement. ineffable, unrestricted
unfettered Movement of Love&hellip;to Be as God created you&mdash;as God
is Be-ing you right now.

&ldquo;Well, I don&rsquo;t have the evidenceof it. You keep talking
about this and I keep not seeing the evidence of it!&rdquo;

OK. I agree with you. You&rsquo;re still not seeing it. But it&rsquo;s
there to be seen. And it&rsquo;s your birthright to be seeing and
experiencing it. And you&rsquo;ve got to keep inviting it! Because all
that you&rsquo;re not seeing it means is, that you&rsquo;re still caught
in the thought. You&rsquo;re still caught thinking about the Truth of
you. And the Answer is, to take the time frequently to become still so
that you might become, what seems to you to be, a giant emptiness.
Because I promise you something: Emptiness is an invitation to filling.
Emptiness is an invitation. It&rsquo;s an invitationto be filled.
It&rsquo;s a request to be filled. And when you are not introducing
thinking, or definitions or concepts or protocols or rules, what will
fill you is the only thing that&rsquo;s really there to fill you which
is, well I&rsquo;m going to say: The Holy Spirit; that which is nothing
more than your right Mind&mdash;and the conscious experience of God.

Some of you, I know, wonder why I spend so much time talking about you.
This is supposed to be an ACIM study group. We&rsquo;re supposed to be
here learning about &hellip; ta-daa &hellip; A Course In Miracles! Well,
friends [chuckling] this book is about you. And if you don&rsquo;t
realize it&rsquo;s about you, put it down. .or realize it. It&rsquo;s
not a subject. It&rsquo;s not an object called a subject to learn about.
A subject to memorize, a subject to incorporate the knowledge of, within
you. Man, this is about your Mind. This is about you shifting from
ignorance into the concrete experience of knowing the
Truth&mdash;experiencing the Truth and becoming free of sin, sickness
and death.

And I&rsquo;ll say it again, &ldquo;Your Brother and Sister are the
means of your escape from yourbondage!&rdquo; Not the brother or sister
you think your Brother or Sister is, but the Brother and Sister who Are
and have never stopped being the Presence of God. And they are being in
your life, giving you the opportunity to abandon your definitions and
your thoughts and your habitual way&hellip; of embracing them&hellip; around the
neck [said venemously]. They are your opportunity to learn to let go of
them&mdash;to let go of them by abandoning the thoughts that you are
holding them to in your mind. And the only way that you&rsquo;re going
to be able to do that isif you&rsquo;re willing to consider that they
are not guilty of being something less than the Son or Daughter of God.
And inseparably,that is the truth about you. And you must release
yourself from the definitions you are binding yourself with&mdash;the
thoughts.

I&rsquo;m not going to give you something new to put on your
refrigerator this week. Keep that note up there: thinking is not the
normal use of your mind. And then, why don&rsquo;t you say&hellip; like
they do in the South, &ldquo;What the hey, I&rsquo;m going to try, not
thinking.&rdquo;

I love you, every single one of you. And I look forward this week
rejoicing when I see light-bulbs go on in your mind that are the
evidence of insight occurring&mdash;not thinking. Insight that takes you
out of thinking even if its only momentary. Because even if the
experience doesn&rsquo;t last, you cannot return to the place you were
before it happened.

I&rsquo;m full of it tonight, but I must stop. I want you to know that
I&rsquo;m full of it all week. And I&rsquo;m full of it standing with
you and you can invite me to spill over onto you directly. There&rsquo;s
a reason you have an Advocate. And the reason is, that you are the Son
of God believing that you&rsquo;re not. And this is a humungous&mdash;an
universally humungous impossibility. And the impossibility of it
provides you with everything you need in order to escape its bondage.

Goodnight.

[^1]: T11.9 Guiltlessness and Invulnerability

