---
title: Jun 18, 2006
ref: "T11.9 Guiltlessness and Invulnerability"
alink: "/acim/text/11/chap1109/"
---

Good evening, and welcome to everyone who's joining us on the Internet.

Well, the Course says, &ldquo;There is no order of difficulty in
miracles.&rdquo; And I'm going to say, there are not orders of reality.
And what I mean by that is, that as we meet every week and I'm sharing
these ideas with you, I'm aware that it seems to you that my assessment
of each of you&mdash;my definition, if you will, of each of
you&mdash;describes someone you don't know.

I tell you that you are the direct expression of God, right now. And,
therefore, you are each the Christ. But you don't believe me, you don't
think so. At least, for the most part, as you go through your day, you
don't behave like the Christ and you find it very difficult to put into
practice the things I have suggested that you bring into play. It's just
too easy to slip back into your old habits of thinking, and they seem
fully justified. But, the one to whom they seem justified, is not the
one I have described as you. It's the orphan, it's the one who feels
separated from his Father. It's the one who feels isolated and alone.

Well, those words don't describe you, even though you believe they do.
And so, it can seem as though I am describing two different orders of
reality. There's the Kingdom of Heaven and the Sons and Daughters of
God, And I'm talking about you and I'm talking about everything that you
experience&mdash;Holy ones. Awesome &hellip; Awesome because the very
substance of your Being is divine Love, which has not only the capacity
but the intent to bless everything It sees with the Love that It is.

&ldquo;Well,&rdquo; you say, &ldquo;that isn't what I find myself
engaged in as I go through my day. You're describing some ultimate me,
not a here-and-now me. Here's my experience, and I'm very upset about
it. And here's why I'm upset about it.&rdquo; And you can spell off all
the justifications and you are firmly convinced in the picture you draw.
So, you're talking about a different order of reality, and it seems at
times to be something you cannot pull together. And yet, you know what?
As we continue, I am not going to stop confronting you with the truth
about you that stands at odds with the way you perceive yourselves.

Now, part of the problem is that you think that you have to reconcile
the way you see everything, and the way you think of yourself, with what
I'm talking about. And they can't be reconciled. The two will never
meet, because one is Real and one is unreal. One is the direct conscious
experience of Reality as it is and the other is a preoccupation with a
fantasy about what everything is. The fantasy goes on, so to speak, in
your head. To engage in it, you have to withdraw from everything and go
inside to formulate and maintain the picture you have drawn.

In this way, you are not really present with everything or anyone. You
are staying solidly joined to the picture you are maintaining in your
mind. That doesn't constitute a different order of reality. It simply
constitutes a misunderstanding which you're trying to abide in with
great diligence. Because in some way you feel that by staying with the
picture you're maintaining, you are going to manage to survive. And
that's why it is of great importance.

The imaginative description of yourself that you have made up will not
become, or refine itself into the Christ that you are. What will happen
is, that you will finally arrive at a point where you're willing to
withdraw your investment in your imagination and abandon it&mdash;let it
go. And, you want to know something? The reason the Course presents such
difficulty to you is because you read it so that you can get a better
hold on the world by means of your definitions, and the Course is
saying, abandon them.

&ldquo;Oh, abandon them? That will leave me floating, insecure. That
will make me very vulnerable. I cannot afford to lose control, chaos
will follow. I am convinced of it. I am convinced that my very definite
definitions and opinions and judgments are what are keeping me safe. I
live in a hostile world. It's obvious to anyone with half a
brain.&rdquo; And that's an argument in favor of not letting go and
providing yourself with the opportunity to discover that there is a
permanent, eternal, abiding order to the experience of existing that you
are not responsible for, and that you can lean into and rely upon
totally.

Oh, but if you do that, that will put your ego out of a job. You say,
&ldquo;Well, I won't have anything to do, then.&rdquo; But really, it's
saying that your ego will be without a job, and you will have to glean
the value of your presence from some other source than the
&ldquo;excellent effort&rdquo; you bring to getting control of your life
and your world, so that you can fulfill dreams that you have made
up&mdash;the fulfillment of which, if you were to let go, you would find
you have already been gifted with and are part of your intrinsic
wholeness right now.

So, in some ways what I'm here to share with you is the motivation to
let go of control, the motivation to give up trying to improve this puny
little self you think you are. Well, you know, I hear this often:
&ldquo;I've been trying. I have been honestly and earnestly doing my
best, and nothing has changed.&rdquo; And I said this a couple of weeks
ago. And what you're saying is, that you are not finding any real
justification for persisting. But, if you go to the doctor tomorrow and
he examines you and he says, &ldquo;You have a terminal disease,&rdquo;
now you'll have justification. Now you'll have motivation, even if
you're not sure that there really is a God. And even though you're not
sure that if you dare to let go of control and yield into the
underlying, universal order of Being, that there will be an eradication
of the problem that the doctor described&mdash;you'll do it anyway.

I'm suggesting that you do this before you have some ultimate reason for
doing it, when there isn't fear attending it. One doesn't have to end up
being crucified, or &ldquo;on the way to the cross,&rdquo; before trying
something new.

When I describe you as the holy Son or Daughter of God&mdash;right now,
right as you sit here&mdash;and that where you're sitting is the middle
of the Kingdom of Heaven, I'm not talking about some other order of
reality, some other dimension. There is no other dimension. There is no
other thing to be experiencing. Don't let fear be what brings you to the
resolve to look with fresh eyes. Don't let a dire circumstance drive you
to what we might call a &ldquo;negative inspiration,&rdquo; or a
negatively impulsed inspiration to let God in, or let Reality in. Be
willing to accept that Reality and the Kingdom of Heaven&mdash;the only
Kingdom of Heaven there is, and what you have meant whenever you used
those words, &ldquo;the Kingdom of Heaven&rdquo;&mdash;is what you're in
the middle of, right this moment. Hold on to that one conscious thought.

Now, don't hold on to that conscious thought as a mental practice that
will accomplish something. It's only purpose is to help you become so
single-minded that you will dare to let go control, and you will dare to
listen, and you will dare to be receptive to the influx of new vision
that will radically change your perception of everything, uncovering
what is truly present and has always been truly present.

Now, as I'm talking, it must be becoming obvious to you that the
circumstance you find yourself in is really only an experience of mental
aberration&mdash;distorted perception. Another way of saying it is, you
must be beginning to realize that you're having an episode of insanity.

Now, wasn't very nice of me to say that, was it? But, you want to know
something? Insanity is not terminal. Insanity is correctable. To be able
to say&mdash;or think, even&mdash;that you are not seeing things
clearly, and that it is foolish for you to believe what you think you're
seeing, is the kind of simple logic that can be all the impetus you
need, all the push you need, to become genuinely curious to look at
everything you think you're familiar with and see something you haven't
seen before.

Again, if you don't know that you are seeing in a distorted fashion,
there will never be any reason for looking with new eyes, or with new
curiosity, or with a new sense of adventure.

There are not orders of reality. There is only one. You're in It. It
constitutes you, and It awaits your conscious experience of It. It
desires you to be having the conscious experience of It. And, the
function of the Holy Spirit, which is nothing more than your right Mind,
is to reveal It to you. Your very own right Mind desires to reveal to
you what you, in your right Mind, already know.

You simply must stop distancing yourself from the state of being Awake,
the state of being enlightened, by insisting upon reinforcing your
unenlightened thinking. And this means stepping out into unknown
territory. It means, in a way, from your present point of perception,
that you must be willing to think in a &ldquo;new order of
reality,&rdquo; in a different order of reality, because Reality seems
so foreign to you when I talk about It. And so, it will seem to you as
though you're having to move into a new order of reality. It will only
seem that way. I am putting it that way, so that as long as it seems
that way, you will find more reason to pursue It, too lean into It, to
abandon what you're sure of in order to make room for the conscious
experience of what It&mdash;everything&mdash;Is.

Now, let's go into the book:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This world IS a picture of the crucifixion of God&rsquo;s Son.[^1]
</div>

Remember, last week we were talking about pictures and photo albums, and
freeze-dried frames of moments, and then treating those freeze-dried
frames as though they were, in and of themselves, something actual,
you&mdash;you at an earlier time, you doing this, etc.&mdash;when you
are the Mind, the conscious awareness in which the experience of looking
at a picture book is going on.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The world IS a picture &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; a definition &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; of the crucifixion of God&rsquo;s Son.
</div>

H-m-mm. What was the crucifixion? The crucifixion was a penalty, wasn't
it? A penalty for being guilty, right? Now, the crucifixion&mdash;my
crucifixion, if you will&mdash;was an example of being found guilty of
something that hadn't occurred. I was found guilty for doing or being
something I was not, and then penalized for it. Now, when it says that
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This world IS a picture of the crucifixion of God&rsquo;s Son.
</div>

&hellip; it's referring to each one of you, and everyone else you know
and that you run into in the process of your day. And you each crucify
each other, as well as yourself. You crucify yourself, the Son of God
that you Are, by defining yourself in less than lovely terms
[chuckling], self-critical terms, or even falsely positive terms.

The orphan mentality is a mentality unconscious of its divinity,
unconscious of its connection with everything and everyone at, I'm going
to say, a level of divinity, absolute divinity. How many times, during
your day &hellip; and I can safely say that none of you goes through one
day without at least once falsely judging a brother and being upset with
that brother&mdash;claiming his guilt, confronting him with his guilt,
confirming his guilt, not letting him weasel out of his guilt. But, of
course, that's what orphans do. That's not what the Christ does, but
that is what orphans do.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This world IS a picture of the crucifixion of God&rsquo;s Son.
</div>

If each one of you is God&rsquo;s Son or Daughter, you are at this
moment guiltless. You are innocent, pure, right now. You must get this
through your head, because I'm speaking to the pure, innocent one that
each of you are. That's who I'm speaking to, no matter how you're
conceiving of it. And until you let yourself off the hook and dare to
believe that that is what you are and therefore you do not need to
behave the way you've been behaving, you will not find transformation
occurring. You will not find a miracle happening&mdash;a sudden shift of
perception. You won't find it happening for yourself and you won't find
it happening for your brother.

And so, you really have to be willing to take what seems to you to be a
radical position that, in spite of everything you know you've done, and
in spite of the meanness with which you've done a lot of it, that's not
part of your true character. That is not part of your being. And because
it isn't, you cannot be forever influenced by it, and you do not have to
forever embody it.

Everyone&mdash;not everyone, but many&mdash;who have heard me say that
Hitler is Awake, got very incensed. How could he be Awake? He only did
the atrocious things he did 60 years ago. That's not nearly enough time
to suffer for what he did. Well, then, by comparison, how long do each
of you have to suffer?

Probably you don't even deserve to be here listening to me right now.
It's too soon. You haven't paid enough. Some of your indiscretions or
sins just occurred the day before yesterday. Well, are you an orphan or
not? If you're not an orphan, then the rules governing orphans do not
apply to you, and you have the means to step out of that mentality into
your right Mind at any moment. The answer to the problem is not paying
the penalty, but stepping out of the frame of mind in which the penalty
seems to be justified.

Now, does that mean you just say, &ldquo;Well, yes, I did it, but I'm
innocent, I'm innocent, I'm innocent, I'm innocent.&rdquo; No, because
if a shift in you hasn't occurred so that that kind of behavior finds no
abiding place in you ever again, and you are a new man, we might say, or
a new woman &hellip; unless that has happened, then your perfection is
still at a distance from you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The world IS a picture of the crucifixion of God's Son. And until you
realize that God's Son cannot BE crucified, this is the world you will
see.

&hellip; until you realize that God's Son cannot BE
crucified&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; until you realize that you cannot be an orphan and never have
been one, until you realize that your very Being is occurring at what
seems to you to be another level of reality, you will not be in a
position of being able to abandon the perceptions you're currently
employing that cover up Reality to you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; until you realize that God's Son cannot BE crucified, this is
the world you will see. Yet you will not realize this until you accept
the eternal fact &hellip;
</div>

Oh, dear! There we go, stepping into that other order of reality.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; until you accept the eternal fact that God's Son is NOT GUILTY.
</div>

You cannot be guilty for something you have never been. And you cannot
be guilty for something that someone-who-has-never-been apparently acted
out.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you will not realize this until you accept the eternal fact
that God's Son &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is NOT GUILTY.
</div>

&hellip; that God&rsquo;s Son, your brother, your sister, your
employer&mdash;whoever the bloke might be&mdash;is not guilty. None of
you are guilty because none of you are what you are currently defining
yourselves as. But as long as you continue to use the same definitions,
you will not have the experience of your guiltlessness, of your
innocence. And part of the experience of your innocence is the
disappearing of a terminal disease, the disappearance of an injury, the
disappearance of anything and everything that doesn't express the
awesomeness of life, and the beauty and the harmony of being.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you will not realize this until you accept the eternal fact
that God's Son is NOT GUILTY. He DESERVES only love because he has GIVEN
only love.
</div>

Which means, anything that you've expressed that wasn't loving, you
didn't express, and it wasn't expressed. You're like the gentleman in
the institution who says, &ldquo;I am Napoleon, and yesterday I cursed
the water cooler, and it is going to forevermore spew forth black coal
water.&rdquo; Well, should he be penalized for cursing the water cooler?
No, because in the first place he isn't Napoleon to curse the water
cooler. He isn't who he thinks he is. And what he thinks he's done, he
hasn't done.

Likewise, you just have never managed to stop being the Christ, and any
loving thing you have done has been Real and is eternal. And any
unloving thing you have done, you haven't done. You see, this is a
radical position. It seems radical to you, but it's just the difference
between clarity and confusion. That's all it is. It's the difference
between clarity and confusion.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Son of God &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; cannot BE condemned because he has never condemned.
</div>

&ldquo;Well,&rdquo; you say, &ldquo;I sure condemned President Bush
yesterday,&rdquo; or whoever it might have been. Well, if you did, know
that you didn't, because you're not an orphan, you're not Napoleon.
You're not who you think you are.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Atonement is the final lesson he need learn, for it teaches him
that, never having sinned, he has no NEED of salvation.
</div>

Now, you've got to be very clear here. As long as you think you are an
orphan, there is insanity, there is confusion that must necessarily be
replaced by the conscious experience of truth. And until that has
occurred, you are in need of salvation. You are in need of release from
a false bondage. But the reason you can get the release is because you
are not Napoleon. You are not something that doesn't exist, having done
something that couldn't have been done by something that doesn't exist,
that you must pay the penalty for, because, in the Court of Napoleon the
rules are that blah, blah, blah, blah&mdash;whatever the rules
are&mdash;and you did not abide by the rules.

The ignorance, the insanity gets ever more complex and harder to
extricate yourself from if you indulge in believing them. You must be
willing to take this radical position that I'm telling you is your
normality, the truth about you right now, which is that in spite of what
you think, you are the presence of God being expressed by God perfectly,
and it is your Birthright to be experiencing that. Until you're
experiencing that, there is something needed. There is a correction that
is called for.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Long ago we said that the Holy Spirit shares the goal of all good
teachers, whose ultimate aim is to make themselves unnecessary by
teaching their pupils all they know. The Holy Spirit wills ONLY this,
for sharing the Father's Love for His Son, He wills to remove ALL guilt
from his mind that he may remember his Father in peace. For peace and
guilt are antithetical, and the Father can be remembered ONLY in peace.
</div>

Well, once again you must remember that the Holy Spirit is nothing more
than your right Mind. And certainly you're right Mind is intent upon you
not overlooking It [chuckling], not missing out on the experience of It.
It is Its intent for you not to believe things that are absolutely
inconsistent with the truth about you. And It is constantly present,
moving you, moving you, moving you to let It in, to let It register with
you. And most of you do, to one degree or another. The only thing is
that you listen to It as though you're still the orphan, instead of That
which is speaking to you. You see? And so you think you're getting
tidbits of truth, to better be an orphan with, when the fact is that the
tidbits, as you think of them, are realizations that uncover to you the
fact that you're not an orphan at all. You see?

You are God presencing Himself right where you are. You are what God is
presencing Himself as right there where you are. You can't be anything
else. Therefore you can't be guilty of anything else. And therefore no
crucifixion can await you. But, in order to avoid the false experience
of crucifixion, you're going to have to dare to embrace the truth that's
being revealed to you that you're not an orphan. You're going to have to
abandon that stance. You're going to have to let yourself be flooded
with the conscious experience of being the Christ, willing to be and do
what the Christ is and does in the Kingdom of Heaven for his brothers
and sisters.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Love and guilt cannot coexist, and to accept one is to DENY the other.
</div>

And so, when you do find yourself judging a brother, you've got to
realize that that act denies love. It denies love entrance into your
awareness of yourself and your capacity to be. And it denies it to all
that it would be shared with if you weren't denying it in yourself.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Guilt hides Christ from your sight, for it is the denial of the
blamelessness of God's Son.
</div>

If you don't want to feel guilty, you've got to stop employing guilt to
manipulate your brothers and sisters. Because if you find guilt to be a
valuable tool, you will know that there are others who find it a
valuable tool as well, who will use it on you. And guilt is very
attractive&mdash;negatively attractive, but attractive nevertheless. If
you let guilt in, it's very difficult to set it down, because you feel
so guilty. I mean, you feel it in your stomach, you feel it in your
chest, and it's very difficult not to be consumed by it. It's as though
you have a natural proclivity toward feeling guilty.

Because it's very difficult to set down, you and your brothers and
sisters, you and your fellow man need an advocate who will stand there
on behalf of him or her, doing everything possible to demonstrate that
the experience of guilt is invalid, and that it must be seen for what it
is and set down. And this takes education. This takes a willingness to
stand with your brother or sister and present the truth of it. And this
is where involvement comes in. And this is where the messiness comes in,
that I have spoken of, and that all of you would love to
avoid&mdash;hm-m-m, like the Pharisee, walking by on the other side of
the road: &ldquo;Oh, poor soul. If you had followed the rules, you
wouldn't be having this problem. If you had been a &ldquo;good
orphan&rdquo; and you had abided by the rules that all of us have set up
for the purpose of not having this kind of experience, you wouldn't have
had this kind of experience. And I wouldn't have been confronted by an
invitation to be involved. So, work it out yourself. I've got to be on
my way.&rdquo; You see?

Guilt is mesmerizing, just as self-righteousness is mesmerizing. But
guilt couldn't catch you for a second if you knew who you were. People
lay guilt trips on other people. Why? To keep them in their place and to
get them to behave in a way that makes no significant demands on the
person laying the guilt trip on them. Mutual definitions, agreements as
to codes of behavior and conduct, are all means of being in control, and
being as uninvolved as possible, with the least amount of demands being
placed on anybody. And why no demands? Because, &ldquo;That keeps my
independent self undisturbed. That keeps my independent self
independent.&rdquo; Involvement spoils independence.

All of you hate being held in a position of guilt, and yet, in one way
or another, you all employ guilt against others so as not to have to be
outside the box you operate in. Well, your salvation lies in stepping
outside the box, outside the state of orphanhood. You've got to step out
of the box into the experience of your Christ-hood.

How do you do that? There's only one way to do it, and it isn't thinking
about it, and it isn't reasoning about it. The only way is to become
still and listen. For what? The Good Humor ice cream truck? No. For the
Father&rsquo;s voice, for the Holy Spirit's voice, for That which
conveys to you the true perception of everything and of yourself.

Well, again, that's stepping out, isn't it, into the out-of-control
place. Anything outside the box that's truly outside the box is, for
you, an out-of-control place. But that out-of-control place simply means
it's out of the control of an orphan, or it's out of the control of
Napoleon. Big loss, huh? That which didn't exist lost control
[chuckling].

You've got to be willing to step into, for lack of better words, another
order of reality, even though there is no other order of reality, and
the movement constitutes letting yourself back into the only Order of
Reality there is, and the only true experience of yourself that there
is.

If you're a member of a group&mdash;it could be a religious group, it
could be a political group, it could be a group of mothers whose
daughters engage in fashion shows, it could be a chess player who spends
his life engaged with other chess players doing the chess tournament
rounds. Whatever group you might belong to, there are rules of conduct.
There are ways to behave. And if at any point you decide not to behave
according to the rules, the keepers of the rules&mdash;which are all the
other members&mdash;will come down on you and lay a guilt trip on you.
&ldquo;Well, if you don't want to abide by the rules of our church, you
know, you're likely to end up at an insane asylum along with all the
other members of our church who left. Hm-m-m. Well, if you abandon this
chess game, right in the middle of the chess game, you will be banned
forever from participating in any other chess tournament. We'll see to
it that your whole life is taken away from you.&rdquo;

And they make you feel guilty, and pressure you into &ldquo;proper
behavior.&rdquo; And in each case, in each of these groups, the rules
that they abide by are treated as though they are The Rules of
Life&mdash;real, actual rules of life&mdash;when the fact is that the
majority of the world outside of that group doesn't give a shit whether
you left the game in the middle of the game or not, or whether you
abided by this particular doctrine of this particular church. And this
group is not God Almighty. But, oh, if they can catch you with a little
bit of a guilt, they will make you miserable until you realize that the
whole guilt trip is set up, established and maintained by only a handful
of idiots, and that it's absolutely asinine for you to be feeling bad at
all. You see?

But, oh boy, they'll get you one way or another, if they can, with a
little bit of a guilt. And then, of course, once you've felt a little
bit of guilt, then you feed it the rest. You become mesmerized by it,
and caught. And so, what I'm saying is that right now, in one way or
another, you're all caught. But you're caught in the grip of a small
handful of idiots called orphans, who are really the Christ having
forgotten who they are. And so, are you going to avoid being radical
because a group of idiots, of which you used to be a member [chuckling],
are trying to keep you &hellip; from what? From making them grow.

You step outside the box. It doesn't leave the status quo like it was.
And if you end up having a better time, or a better experience, it's
going to be threatening to the cohesiveness of this group. And they do
not want to be faced with it.

Well, isn't this the way it is with each of you? Somebody in your
experience behaves in a way that causes you to have to operate outside
of your code of conduct for yourself. It stretches you, you know?
Involvement. Messiness. A willingness to persist with your brother or
sister while it's messy, conveying the answer in spite of their
resistance, and hanging in there because you love them, and because you
know they don't need to be suffering at the hand of a handful of idiots?

&ldquo;Oh, no. You know, I had my schedule for the day. And, you know
what? If I respond to this, it's not just going to be this day. It's
going to be tomorrow and the next day. It might even be a few months. I
mean, my life will be turned into chaos. My orderly little life that I
have scheduled out, you know&mdash;it's part of my five year
plan.&rdquo; Uh-huh. &ldquo;I can't afford to have any interruptions
during the five-year plan. And, to tell you the truth, before those five
years are up, I will already have the next five-year plan in
place.&rdquo;

Why? Why do you have a five-year plan? Because you do not want to be
faced with the unknown. You don't want to be faced with the
unpredictable movement of a wave that your surfboard is on.

The least you could do would be to say, &ldquo;I don't know why I'm not
guilty. I don't know how to see myself as guiltless. But if my guilt is
false, I have enough justification to become still and ask, of a source
that Knows, what the truth is here. I don't know why my brother isn't
guilty, but I know that there's more to him than what I'm seeing. And
that is justification enough for me to go into the Silence, right here,
right now&mdash;not in the privacy of my home when I'm not confronted
with my brother, but right here, while I'm in the way with him&mdash;to
go into the silence within and listen for the words and the meanings
that will convey his guiltlessness to him in a way that he might
comprehend.&rdquo;

And remember, just because someone comprehends it, doesn't mean they
will immediately appreciate it. And so, you must be willing to be there
the next day, and the next day, and the next day, or whenever the
occasion arises, to re-present that truth, to re-present whatever, in
that moment, is being revealed to you to share.

We've been getting together for what? Over two years. I'm not getting
tired of continuing to tell you the truth, because you deserve not to be
suffering from your ignorance of the truth.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; until you realize that God's Son cannot BE crucified, this is
the world you will see.
</div>

&hellip; the world that's the picture of the crucifixion of God&rsquo;s
Son.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet you will not realize this until you accept the eternal fact &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the eternal fact &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; that God's Son is NOT GUILTY. He DESERVES only love be-cause he
has GIVEN only love.
</div>

&hellip; like the Son of God who thought he was Napoleon and cursed the
water cooler, nothing happened. No curse occurred. The water cooler
doesn't have to worry, because there was no &ldquo;Napoleon.&rdquo;
There was only the Son of God. And whatever the Son of God does, does
occur.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Son of God &hellip; you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; cannot BE condemned because he &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; has never condemned.
</div>

&hellip; because you can't turn into a figment of your imagination and
cause anything to happen that would justify your condemnation.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Atonement is the final lesson he need learn, for it teaches him
that, never having sinned, he has no NEED of salvation.
</div>

And down a little further:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Love and guilt cannot coexist.
</div>

Therefore, they don't coexist. They are like two different orders of
reality, but one isn't real. And what isn't real cannot coexist with
what is Real.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Love and guilt cannot coexist, and to accept one is to DENY the other.
Guilt hides Christ &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your true being &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; from your sight, for it is the denial of the blamelessness of
God's Son.
</div>

So, tonight we're simply illuminating the fact that each one of you, at
this moment, is blameless, and you do not have to wait until you've paid
your appropriate penance before you can have the conscious experience of
what you divinely Are. Guilt says, &ldquo;your freedom cannot be had
until a certain point, and that point follows a certain appropriate
amount of suffering.&rdquo;

If you're going to have an instantaneous healing, or if you are going to
Awaken, you've got to lay down the concept of guilt and your devotion to
it, your validation of it, because your validation of it does one thing
only: It confirms your orphanhood to you a little longer. And yet, you
are not Fatherless. You are not Motherless. You are not absent a Source,
and never have been. So, the idea that you're a separated orphan, on
your own, all by yourself, is pure imagination. It is pure imagination.
Remind yourself of that this week.

Write on your sticky note: &ldquo;Your orphanhood is pure
imagination.&rdquo; Your &ldquo;Napoleon-hood&rdquo; is pure
imagination. You can see it when I talk about the fellow in the
institution who says he's Napoleon. And what you can see about that, you
can apply equally to yourself. And that will help to open the door. That
will help you to, with a little bit more insistence, invite in greater
clarity, greater sanity than you are currently experiencing.

Now, I'm going to finish up with a simple point: What I'm suggesting to
you that you do is not something impossible. And it is also something
that you do not have to do all by yourself. Why? Because that which is
nothing more than your right mind, which is called the Holy
Spirit&mdash;because you couldn't get away from it&mdash;is still
present as your divine Sanity, nudging, pressuring, cajoling you into
recognizing the truth about you. And your Guide is doing the same thing.
And I am doing the same thing. And you could say that the Father, being
the nonexistence of this whole fantasy that you're having, is ultimately
supporting you in your new realizations.

So, how do you let this in? All this help? You just stop being so damned
independent, and stop valuing your independence so greatly.

Want not to be alone, and ask for the Father, or the Holy Spirit or me
to be with you. And then, let us be. It's like you're standing outside
the door of your Home, and unbeknownst to you, all of your friends are
inside waiting for you to open up the door so they can say,
&ldquo;Surprise! We love you and we're having a party for you. We are
welcoming you Home.&rdquo;

I love you all, and I look forward to being with you next week.

[^1]: T11.9 Guiltlessness and Invulnerability

