---
title: Jun 24, 2006
ref: "T11.9 Guiltlessness and Invulnerability"
alink: "/acim/text/11/chap1109/"
---

Good evening, and welcome to everyone who's joining us on the Internet.

We&rsquo;re going to go right into the book. And we&rsquo;ll back up one
sentence.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Guilt &hellip;[^1]
</div>

That&rsquo;s the big word here.	

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Guilt hides Christ from your sight, for it &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; guilt &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is the denial of the blamelessness of God&rsquo;s Son.
</div>

Whom you hold guilty, you hold blameworthy, not blameless. Whom you hold
guilty, you hold blameworthy, not blameless.

This is a very important point, because I&rsquo;m going to tell you
something: The only place that guilt exists, is in the mind of the
observer.

Now, just as when you take any form of matter, any form of substance,
and put it under a microscope and increase the magnification of the
microscope to the max, you will find nothing there, except
energy&mdash;a pattern of energy, an energy form, you might say.
There&rsquo;s absolutely nothing there that you can put your finger on.
There is nothing solid there.

Likewise, no matter who you look at whether it&rsquo;s yourself or any
of your brothers and sisters&mdash;those whom you would deem
guilty&mdash;the closer you look, and the closer you look, and the
closer you look, until you&rsquo;re looking with ultimate magnification,
you will find no one guilty there. Just as matter is a matter of
perception, guilt is a matter of perception. In either case there is
something there, but it&rsquo;s not matter. It&rsquo;s not something
solid. And it&rsquo;s not a guilty one. It&rsquo;s the Christ.

Matter, looked at with ultimate magnification, is pattern of energy. The
energy is Love. Love is the Substance of all things. Likewise, no matter
how guilty you hold your brother to be, if you will dare to look closer
and closer and closer, what you will find there is the Christ, the
embodiment and Movement of Love&mdash;the same thing you find when you
look at what you call &ldquo;matter.&rdquo;

Now, you&rsquo;re all aware that matter seems quite solid to you, that
form seems quite solid to you. And yet the fact is that not only is it
mostly empty space, you carry it further and you find that it is not
empty space with little, tiny pieces of matter whirling around a
nucleus, but pure energy&mdash;what you would call &ldquo;that which is
intangible.&rdquo;

Now I&rsquo;m going to tell you that the moment you allow for the
possibility, or, I&rsquo;m going to say, allow for the fact that matter
is not solid, but is pattern of energy, pattern of the energy of Love,
patterned by the ideas in God&rsquo;s Mind, you will find yourself able
to pass through it&mdash;walk right through a wall or lean upon it, if
that serves your purpose, if that fulfills purpose.

Now that&rsquo;s the potential. That&rsquo;s what you have to look
forward to. You will not have the experience, however, if you hold fast
to the idea that substance is matter&mdash;solid, capable of decay, and
so on. You will not have that experience. And likewise, you will not
have the experience of your brother or sister being the Christ&mdash;the
present, direct expression of God, right here and now&mdash;or of
yourself if you&rsquo;re going to hold that you are a person, an
organism, a body rather than the Mind in which the experience of body is
going on.

As Mind, not confused by thinking it&rsquo;s matter, you are the literal
presence of God. You are the Christ. And you are That right now. I will
keep bringing this up because this shift of attention must take place.
And it&rsquo;s not a shift that you are inclined to spontaneously make.

The shift is from body identification to Mind identification,
recognizing that you are the conscious awareness, the boundless
conscious awareness in which all of God&rsquo;s ideas are being
experienced. And that these ideas pattern the energy of Love&mdash;the
energy of Spirit&mdash;in order to be experienced, recognized, felt,
walked through or leaned against.

We talk about your being the Christ, and we talk about you being the
ultimate right now. You&rsquo;re neither behind the point of
perfection&mdash;you&rsquo;ve heard this over and over&mdash;nor
advancing toward it. You&rsquo;re at that point, and must understand
yourself there-from. Okay! What that means is you&rsquo;re not a body.
You&rsquo;re conscious awareness. You&rsquo;re not a body experiencing
other bodies. You are consciousness, which you already are. You&rsquo;re
already experiencing being conscious or being consciousness. And you
must understand yourself there-from.

You must begin to go through your day without losing sight of the fact
that it is mind moving through ideas, not a body moving through
space&mdash;it is mind experiencing the movement of ideas&mdash;and that
you, identifying yourself as mind, and not any &ldquo;thing&rdquo; going
on in mind, will be you not adding anything extra to Creation. And in
not adding anything extra to Creation, you will find yourself in your
right Mind. You will find yourself healed. You will find yourself
transformed. You will find yourself guiltless.

Only a body can be guilty. Only a body can be guilty for something that
body did. And I will tell you that this body is the
&ldquo;Napoleon&rdquo; that we talked about last week. It&rsquo;s
something that you are not. But if you believe that you are, and there
are others that believe that you are, then you&rsquo;re caught in a
mental miasma&ndash;look it up in the dictionary&ndash;a mental miasma,
from which it becomes difficult to extricate yourself, because it is
confusion itself.

Now, you think your mind is in your head. That is the way most all of
you perceive it. So at the least, you can imagine that the orphan, that
which thinks it is a body, and the Christ, that which is Mind, both go
together through your day. This is helpful. And what you do is, you give
preference to and emphasis to the body part.

I&rsquo;m bringing this out so that you might understand that the
ultimate of you that we&rsquo;ve been talking about, the Christ that you
are that we&rsquo;ve been talking about, is something that is present
with you, because It&rsquo;s your Mind.

You even speak of mind as a possession: &ldquo;My mind.&rdquo; You see?
Well who&rsquo;s the &ldquo;my&rdquo;? The &ldquo;my&rdquo; is the body.
The &ldquo;my&rdquo; is the orphan. You see?

You don&rsquo;t have a mind. You are mind. And you are, we&rsquo;ll say,
using your mind to be the observing self, to be that which is conscious
of every experience you&rsquo;re having of world and universe while
saying, &ldquo;That isn&rsquo;t going on in my mind. My body is having
the experience of world and universe, and of others, and of matter, and
of all form.&rdquo;

And so you pretend that you&rsquo;re not mind experiencing everything,
but that you&rsquo;re a body experiencing whatever is in your immediate
presence, through the use of your mind&ndash;this possession you have
that is supposedly in your cranium.

So, the orphan and the Christ of you walk inseparably at the moment
through your every day. The Christ of you is not at a distance. It is
not afar off. It&rsquo;s not something to work up to. It&rsquo;s not
something to train yourself and refine yourself into being. It&rsquo;s
you, moving though your day, every day, not identifying with It, because
you&rsquo;re identifying with the definition of you, which is your body.

I am narrowing the gap between you, who you think you are, and you, who
you really Are. And I am finding ways to translate spiritual theology
and spiritual concepts into practical ones that have relevance to
you&mdash;every day, here and now! So, to shift into your right Mind is
not so much a matter of shifting out of your wrong mind as it is of
shifting out of your body identification, into mind identification.

If you&rsquo;re riding in a car or on a train, it&rsquo;s easy for you
to sit there and watch the scenery move by, and imagine that
you&rsquo;re stationary, and that the universe is moving past you.
It&rsquo;s a simple shift of perception that can happen easily when
you&rsquo;re sitting still in a moving vehicle. You can shift the
perception so as to have the experience of not moving at all, and
feeling everything else moving past you.

Now, that is relatively close to the experience of Reality, because you
as Mind are immovable &hellip; because you are, Mind is, universal
&hellip; and there is no place for It to move. It is infinite, and there
is no medium through which That which is infinite can move! This
immovability of Mind, that is immovable because It is all, is what
constitutes your eternal safety, your eternal groundedness, if I may put
it that way. And it is in this indivisible, infinite conscious
experience of being that everything is going on.

You visualize It as small, encapsulated in your head, and you take It
along with your body everywhere you go.

So, as you go through this next week, I want you to practice a new
exercise, if you will, that of paying attention to and remembering that
you are Mind, moving through Creation. You are Mind, shifting your
attention to different parts of Creation. And as that shift of attention
happens, legs move, cars move, things are done. But all of those
visible, tangible actions are simply, for lack of better words, the
manifestation or the experienceability of the movement of Mind that you
Are.

This seems a difficult thing to grasp&ndash;everything that we&rsquo;re
reading about. And especially what we talked about last week. The single
most significant definition that you have made up, you might
say&mdash;the one log, which if removed, would unloose the
logjam&mdash;is the definition of yourself as a body. And you define
yourself as a body while forgetting that you are the mind which made the
definition. And that even though the mind made the definition, the mind
never became bound by it. And the mind never became the definition.

The ultimate of you, as ridiculous as it sounds&mdash;and it&rsquo;s
because it&rsquo;s ridiculous that it sounds
ridiculous&mdash;accompanies you everyday, no matter what you&rsquo;re
doing. And it only seems to accompany you because you&rsquo;ve resized
it, in your mind. In your mind, you have resized your mind and placed it
in a physical location&ndash;in a specific circumscribed location.

So where did you hide yourself, from yourself? In a definition you made
up. And then you have built definitions, upon definitions upon,
definitions. But the bottom-line false definition is: That you are a
body, you are an organism, you are a material object that lives while
that material object is alive, and perhaps doesn&rsquo;t exist ever
again when that material object dies. It just ain&rsquo;t so.

And the way the cycle of birth and death is going to be broken is as you
make the shift from identifying with the body to identifying with and
recognizing yourself as pure conscious awareness, Mind&mdash;the
conscious experience of Being&mdash;and begin to observe your world from
that standpoint. You&rsquo;re neither behind the point of perfection,
nor advancing toward it. You are at that point, and must understand
yourself there-from.

You must start being in your life from your Mind instead of from your
body. I can&rsquo;t put it any more clearly than that. And that&rsquo;s
where the delight of life is going to begin to occur for each of you.

Let&rsquo;s go to the book.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Guilt hides Christ from your sight, for it is the denial of the
blamelessness of God&rsquo;s Son.

In this strange world, which you have made, the Son of God HAS sinned.
</div>

Well, what is this strange world that you have made? It&rsquo;s the
world of definitions that you have made up, through the use of
imagination. And how is it that &ldquo;the Son of God HAS sinned?&rdquo;
Because the Son of God has decided to get a divorce from God and look at
everything from his own peculiar slant. He has denied Himself. He has
denied the Son of God. And Self-denial is the mistake&ndash;the sin, if
you will.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
How could you SEE him then?
</div>

&hellip; the Son of God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
By making him invisible, the world of retribution rose in the black
cloud of guilt which you accepted, and you hold it dear.
</div>

Now, you didn&rsquo;t realize that you made the Son of God invisible.
But tell me, are you the Daughter of God? Are you the Son of God? You
don&rsquo;t think so. At least today you don&rsquo;t have the evidence
of it. That&rsquo;s how well you&rsquo;ve made the Son of God invisible.

You say, &ldquo;Well I&rsquo;m just a cranky overworked, exhausted,
impatient, unhappy human being, doing his best, struggling through it
all, with great practice of confidence and faith.&rdquo; You see? Does
that sound like the Christ speaking? No. When you say that about
yourself, you&rsquo;re saying that your Christhood has been made
invisible to you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
By making him invisible, the world of retribution rose &hellip;
</div>

Well, what&rsquo;s the world of retribution? It&rsquo;s the world of
&ldquo;getting even.&rdquo; It&rsquo;s the world in which there is right
and wrong. And the wrong is ferreted out, and disclosed. And a judgment
is made upon it. A judgment is made upon the one who is wrong. And the
verdict is, &ldquo;Guilty!&rdquo; And the penalty is extracted.
Retribution is established.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
By making him invisible, the world of retribution rose in the black
cloud of guilt which you accepted, and you hold it dear.
</div>

&ldquo;Well,&rdquo; you say, &ldquo;I would be irresponsible not to feel
guilty for what I did. I would be irresponsible for not holding him
guilty for what he did. I hold guilt dear, because if guilt isn&rsquo;t
found, and correction by penalty is not put into place, total chaos will
be the result.&rdquo; And so you hold it dear.

Now, the formal definition of guilt is: Responsibility for a
reprehensible act that deserves punishment. If one is responsible for a
reprehensible act that deserves punishment, he is guilty.

But you&rsquo;ve got to remember what I started out with today &hellip;
that if you go to the guilty one and you look closer and closer and
closer, which is another way of saying that you&rsquo;re being more and
more present with him, genuinely present with him or her, the closer you
get, the more clear it will become that what you saw is not there,
because what is there is the Christ.

Taking the time to get closer and closer for a more honest look is
called being willing to be present with your brother. And it is an act
of love. And so, the answer to guilt is not punishment, but the
willingness to be the presence of love that looks beneath the
definitions, looks past the definitions, with a desire to see what is
Real there, and an insistence that comes from within you, that what is
true there is worth finding. It&rsquo;s that simple. The Truth that is
there is worth finding.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
By making him invisible&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Christ, the Son of God &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the world of retribution rose in the black cloud of guilt which
you accepted, and you hold it dear. For the blamelessness of Christ is
the proof that the ego never was and can never be.
</div>

Well, wow! If blamelessness, the blamelessness of Christ &hellip; of you
or your brother &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is the proof that the ego never was and can never be.
</div>

&hellip; then that&rsquo;s the Truth about yourself and your brother
that it&rsquo;s worth persisting in finding. Because, when you find It,
you will find that you are not an ego, along with your brother. That is
the way out of the false identification with body. That is the way out
of the false identification as an orphan.

So, when you claim that you&rsquo;re not blameless, that you are guilty
&hellip; or when you claim that your brother is not blameless, and is
therefore, guilty, you don&rsquo;t move me one bit. What you&rsquo;re
saying is utter nonsense. And believing that you&rsquo;re guilty is the
only thing that causes you to procrastinate in looking for the truth
there. It&rsquo;s the only thing that elicits a reluctance in you. But
I&rsquo;m telling you that if you will dare to adopt the outlandish,
unreasonable statement that &ldquo;You are not guilty,&rdquo; and that
&ldquo;You are the Christ, right now,&rdquo; you will be providing
yourself the stepping-stone out of the confusion and the suffering of
your definitions. Or I could say, of your mis-identification of
yourself, either as a body or as an orphan.

And so it&rsquo;s worth it to engage in this irrational act of claiming
your guiltlessness. More than claiming it; abiding with it, with
whatever feelings guiltlessness arouses in you.

You must be willing to stop condemning, punishing and killing
yourselves. Why? Because, since you are the Christ, no matter how much
effort you put into condemning and penalizing yourself and killing
yourself, no death will occur. It will just be an ongoing state of
tension and suffering. If it isn&rsquo;t going to accomplish anything
ultimately, except to prove to you that it&rsquo;s a useless activity to
engage in, then why not dare to follow my advice and begin to consider
yourself and contemplate yourself as innocent, as guiltless, as the
Christ, as the Son or Daughter of God in whom God is well pleased.
That&rsquo;s how a shift of perception can occur.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Without guilt the ego HAS no life, and God's Son &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; IS without guilt.
</div>

Now, listen to me: This is the truth!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As you look upon yourselves and judge what you do honestly, as you have
been asked to do, you may be tempted to wonder how you CAN be guiltless.
</div>

Guilt tempts you to feel guilty.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you may be tempted to wonder how you CAN be guiltless. Yet
consider this:

You are not guiltless in time, but in ETERNITY. You HAVE
&ldquo;sinned&rdquo; in the past, but there IS no past. Always has NO
direction.
</div>

Infinity has no direction. The Mind that you Are has no boundaries. It
is infinite, and It has no direction. And therefore, everything that is
going on in It, is not going on in time!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Time seems to go in one direction, but when you reach its end it will
roll up like a long carpet which has spread along the past behind you
and will disappear.

Time seems to go in one direction, but when you reach its end
&hellip;
</div>

When you reach the end of time, where will the end of time be&hellip;at
the end of this carpet? The end of time will be when you shift from
identifying as a form to identifying as Mind. As Mind, you will move
from one place to another by a simple shift of attention [snaps finger]
instantaneously!

And that means that that which identifies you, which is called your
body, and which you currently call yourself, will immediately be
wherever your attention has been given. And the Movement will not take
time. And space will not be a part of the experience of the movement of
the shift of attention. So, what you call &ldquo;time&rdquo; will
disappear when you get to the end of time. And the end of time is at the
border between your identification as body and your identification as
Mind. Both of which, at the present time, are constantly with you, and
therefore are not something you&rsquo;ll get to have in the future to
work with.

And actually, when you make that shift of consciousness and you&rsquo;re
identifying as Mind, as Consciousness, body and mind will still
inseparably be, because your body is the visibility and tangibility of
your Individuality. Now, your body will be never sick, never tense,
never tired, never in need. And it will identify the movement of your
mind spontaneously and instantaneously.

Now, how many of you, just as I&rsquo;ve said this, have visualized
yourself being in a different place where this kind of thing happens?
Sort of like a different dimension. Well I&rsquo;m going to tell you
that what I&rsquo;m describing will happen right here. And when you
shift your attention from Kingston to New York, New York is where
you&rsquo;ll be, tonight, a minute from now, tomorrow. The way things
work are the way things work. And they always work.

And therefore, the truth that I&rsquo;m telling you works right now.
It&rsquo;s just that you&rsquo;re not availing yourself of it because
you have this fixation on identifying yourself as a body, and as an
orphan&mdash;certainly not as whatever the words, &ldquo;the
Christ&rdquo; mean.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As long as you believe the Son of God is guilty &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; which is another way of saying: As long as you believe the Son
of God is an orphan and not the Son of God &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you will walk along this carpet, believing that it leads to
death. And the journey will seem long and cruel and senseless, for so it
IS.
</div>

Ignorance is never a pleasant experience. But ignorance never exists all
by itself. It is always paired with, and inseparable from, that which it
is the ignorance of, right? A lie can&rsquo;t stand alone. It&rsquo;s
inseparably tied to the truth that it&rsquo;s the lie about, right? So
what you&rsquo;re ignorant of is something that you are inseparably
linked with, right now, which therefore, is available to you to
experience right now.

And the truth is never withheld from you by God as punishment. The
truth, if it is withheld at all, is withheld by your insistence upon
validating a lie, or your insistence upon validating a definition that
is not true. That&rsquo;s all.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The journey which the Son of God has set himself &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Son of God who thinks he&rsquo;s an orphan &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is foolish indeed&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and I&rsquo;m going to interrupt here. It may be foolish, and
it may be filled with pain and suffering and death, and sorrow and
anxiety and all of the things that all of you thrive on every day. None
of it&rsquo;s the truth. All of it&rsquo;s imagination. All of it is the
result of your opting for your best definition, rather than what a thing
really is.

It&rsquo;s the result of a self-centered exclusive self-appreciation
that doesn&rsquo;t allow for anything else to come into the picture.

Oh yes, the orphan has pride. And the orphan&rsquo;s every act is an act
aimed at demonstrating self-originated integrity that that orphan can be
proud of. And that&rsquo;s part of the shift too. That&rsquo;s part of
the confusion. That&rsquo;s part of the nonsense. And because none of it
is true, you can&rsquo;t be bound by it, no matter how bound you think
you are because you and everyone else has decided that there&rsquo;s no
way out but to face the penalty!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The journey which the Son of God has set himself is foolish
indeed&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and this is where I interrupted, and I&rsquo;m going to add:
but inconsequential, having no real consequences.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; but the journey on which his Father sets him is one of release
and joy. The Father is NOT cruel, and His Son CANNOT hurt himself.
</div>

That&rsquo;s why this trip into fantasyland is inconsequential.

It is of no consequence to the Son of God, who has gone on this fun-ride
through fantasyland, no matter how thrilling and scary it has gotten.
Because it is of no consequence to the Son of God, that has taken the
ride, there is nothing that the Son of God can be guilty of, that he
must pay a penalty for before he can exit the ride.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Father is NOT cruel, and His Son CANNOT hurt himself. The
retaliation he fears and which he SEES will never touch him, for
although he believes in it the Holy Spirit &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that which is nothing more than his right Mind &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; KNOWS it is not true.
</div>

Here I am, talking again about this one that you can&rsquo;t believe is
you. You Know it isn&rsquo;t true.

You have preoccupied yourself so greatly that you have rendered yourself
unconscious of the truth of it, but because you haven&rsquo;t stopped
being the Christ, because you haven&rsquo;t stopped being what you Are,
you still know it. And that&rsquo;s why you can step off the ride any
time you want without any further development or growth or refining of
your soul.

Now, listen to this:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; again, that which is nothing more than your right Mind &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; stands at the END of time, where YOU must be because He is WITH
you.
</div>

If the Holy Spirit stands at the end of time and the Holy Spirit is your
right Mind, then you stand at the end of time at this moment!

The end of time is not off in the future, and you don&rsquo;t have
unlimited time to refine yourselves and grow into something that you
aren&rsquo;t, right now. That doesn&rsquo;t mean that you&rsquo;re out
of time, and there should be a great sense of urgency. It means that
there simply is no time at all to fight against or to overcome, or to be
at odds with, or feel governed by.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit stands at the END of time, where YOU must be, because He
is WITH you. He &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit. Again, not some wonderful Entity afar off, who
loves you greatly, but that which is nothing more, right now, than your
right Mind. Your right Mind

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; has ALWAYS undone everything unworthy of the Son of God, for
such was His mission, given Him by God.
</div>

That was and is the mission of your right Mind!

Your right Mind&rsquo;s mission is to cause you to come Home into your
right Mind. It is to cause you to stop indulging in body identification,
form identification, and identity with and as the Mind, in which the
experience of All of Creation is going on.

Your right Mind&ndash;the Holy Spirit.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He has ALWAYS undone everything unworthy of the Son of God, for such was
His mission, given Him by God. And what God gives has ALWAYS been.
</div>

Mind you, we&rsquo;re not talking about in the Kingdom of Heaven which
someday you&rsquo;ll get to&mdash;or another dimension, or a different
level of reality. We&rsquo;re talking about you right here, right now,
today, in Kingston, Washington, or wherever you might be on the globe.
And wherever you might be on the globe, whatever the name of your town,
whatever the name of the street you&rsquo;re on, that&rsquo;s the town
and the street that you will instantaneously move from and back to with
a shift of your attention.

Right here, in your everyday world, because your everyday world is the
Kingdom of Heaven, misperceived. Why? Because you&rsquo;ve determined
that you are not the Son of God, you are not the direct Expression of
God. You are a physical organism, the current end result of
evolution&mdash;physical evolution.

Don&rsquo;t have so much faith in the scientific community of your
globe. It tells you one week that coffee is good for you, and the next
week, coffee is bad for you. And the next week sugar is bad for you, and
the next week, sugar is good for you. And that if you want to lose
weight, the use of sugar is a very effective and healthy way to lose
weight.

Don&rsquo;t have such respect for the current, best definition of the
Kingdom of Heaven, especially when it says that it&rsquo;s a material
world and a material universe that goes through a cycle from birth to
death.

None of you like to think about that cycle of birth and death because
it&rsquo;s too depressing. But ignoring it won&rsquo;t get you out of
it. And continuing to work with the current definitions will not get you
out of it. But what the Course is teaching and what I&rsquo;m supporting
with you will!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You will see me as you learn the Son of God is guiltless.
</div>

&ldquo;Oh, well, Raj, I believe You&rsquo;re guiltless. Let me see you.
Let me see you.&rdquo;

Oh, yes, but what about Henrietta down the street? What about your
Father that abused you?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You will see me as you learn the Son of God is guiltless.
</div>

What about you&mdash;whom you are so hard upon? What about you, who you
won&rsquo;t let off the hook, but punish yourself daily, in one way or
another? Like doing penance.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You will see me as you learn the Son of God is guiltless.
</div>

Take the radical step of considering yourself to be guiltless.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Son of God &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; has always sought his guiltlessness&hellip;
</div>

Now here&rsquo;s the part you don&rsquo;t want to hear &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and he has FOUND it.
</div>

Remember, the lie is inseparably tied to the truth that it&rsquo;s the
lie about. And the false perception of yourself that you have is
inseparably tied to the reality of you.

[whiny voice] And so when you say &ldquo;I&rsquo;m a poor little
ignorant orphan!&rdquo; It&rsquo;s a lie, and you&rsquo;ve got to stop
believing yourself. And you&rsquo;ve got to say, &ldquo;Well, if
I&rsquo;m an ignorant little orphan, a bastard, then I must really have
a father and a mother. I have a Source. Something makes me real. And
it&rsquo;s not little teeny old me!&rdquo; And you shift your attention
to the truth that is inseparably linked to the misperception&mdash;the
false perception, the lie you&rsquo;re holding about yourself.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He has always sought his guiltlessness, and he has FOUND it. For
everyone is seeking to escape from the prison he has made, and the way
to find release is not denied him. Being IN him, he HAS found it.
</div>

See, I know it sounds like I&rsquo;m talking again about another order
of reality, but I&rsquo;m not!

And the more clearly you can get this in your mind, the more you will
read this and claim it as being the fact, right here, right now,
today&mdash;right here in this world you were hoping to escape from.
Because that lie, that it&rsquo;s a world you want to escape from
because it&rsquo;s full of suffering, is inseparably tied to the truth
which is That right now, in spite of what you see, it&rsquo;s the
Kingdom of Heaven! It is reality Itself!

In other words, It&rsquo;s not at a great distance from you. It&rsquo;s
right here. And that&rsquo;s why it&rsquo;s really valuable to look at
everything with innocent eyes. And to look with genuine curiosity.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
WHEN he finds it is only a matter of time&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; big clue there &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
WHEN he finds it is only a matter of time, and time is only an illusion.
</div>

Now, remember. Let&rsquo;s stay connected here. The end of time is at
the edge, the tied-together point of your identifying yourself as body
or your identifying yourself as Mind. And don&rsquo;t get metaphysical
on me. Don&rsquo;t get into a head trip. All you have to do after
tonight, is go through your evening, and your day, tomorrow, and the
next day, doing your best to be like the person on the railroad train,
who you can grasp has the option to perceive himself moving through
stationary space, or that he is stationary, and that the Universe is
moving past him.

It&rsquo;s that kind of a shift that occurs in your awareness.

The Course says, &ldquo;I am not a body. I am still free to be as God
created me.&rdquo; God created you like Himself and God is Infinite
Mind&ndash;the infinite conscious awareness of Being that constitutes
existence Itself&ndash;ultimate existence. That which constitutes
ultimate existence, you are experiencing every day, except as I said,
you think it&rsquo;s small, and it&rsquo;s stuck inside your head and
your body is carrying it around!

But the reverse is the case. Your Mind is infinite, and It carries
around All of Creation in It forever.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
WHEN he finds it &hellip;
</div>

For clarity, I&rsquo;m backing up.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For everyone is seeking to escape from the prison he has made&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the prison of his definitions &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and the way to find release is not denied him. Being IN him, he
HAS found it. WHEN he finds it is only a matter of time, and time is but
an illusion. For the Son of God is guiltless NOW, and the brightness of
his purity shines untouched forever in God&rsquo;s Mind. God&rsquo;s Son
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you, right now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; will ALWAYS be as he was created.
</div>

As you were created.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Deny YOUR world &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the world of definitions that you&rsquo;ve made up &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and judge him not&hellip;
</div>

Meaning, judge not the Son of God. Shift from your orphanhood to your
place in the Sonship. Exchange your identification with body to
identification with Mind. These are other ways of saying &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Deny YOUR world and judge him &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Son of, God&rsquo;s Son &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; not, for his eternal guiltlessness is in the Mind of his
Father, and protects him forever.
</div>

Protects you forever. It protects you forever by allowing for no means
to exist for you, as I said last week, to become a figment of your
imagination and then act&mdash;be that. And so, because you can&rsquo;t
become a figment of your imagination and be that, you are still in your
Holy Place. No matter how many others egos, other orphans around you try
to convince you that the way they and you in the past have seen things
is correct and you must, therefore, be held accountable for your
indiscretions. And therefore, it&rsquo;s going to take a few more eons
of spiritualizing yourself before you can even think about experiencing
who you really Are.

I&rsquo;m sorry. You can get off the ride through fantasyland any time
you want.

You can get off the ride of the misperception of the Kingdom of Heaven
you&rsquo;re having, right here, any time you want, and experience the
Kingdom of Heaven that&rsquo;s right here. Because It is what is here
for you to be experiencing. And your imaginations are not.

Am I trying to influence you? You bet I am.

I Love You. And, as always, I look forward to being with you next week.

[^1]: T11.9 Guiltlessness and Invulnerability

