---
title: Jul 1, 2006
ref: "T11.9 Guiltlessness and Invulnerability"
alink: "/acim/text/11/chap1109/"
---

Good evening, and welcome to everyone who's joining us on the Internet.

Surprise! God did not give you the capacity to think.

Again, God did not give you the capacity to think. That&rsquo;s enough
to keep you busy for the next week.

As consciousness, as conscious awareness, you have the capacity to what?
Pay attention. Not think. Thinking is not natural to you. And yet you
think that it&rsquo;s not only the most natural thing to you, you think
that it is synonymous with being conscious. You think that thinking is
your function. &ldquo;My God, if I weren&rsquo;t to think, what would I
do?&rdquo; Well, I&rsquo;ll tell you something: In the Silence, you
would learn a whole lot. Because in the Silence, you would be present
with things. You would be present with each other. Not shielded against
each other by means of your thoughts or your demeaning definitions, or
even your loving thoughts and definitions. This is a key point.

Now. I want to back up so-to-speak to the beginning. In the beginning
was the Word and the Word was with God and the Word was God.[^1] And God
being God, infinitely, was called Creation. And God&rsquo;s
Self-Expressions, God&rsquo;s Extension of Himself was only like
Himself. And you are His Self-Expression. You are what God is expressing
Himself as&mdash;right there where you are!

God is not expressing you, God is expressing Himself right where you
are. God Presencing Himself is what you Are. And in the beginning the
Sons and Daughters of God were innocent&mdash;guiltless. And guilt was
an unknown word. And, not any of the Sons or Daughters of God had had a
single thought. They experienced the bliss&mdash;the peaceful joyous
bliss&mdash;of being consciously aware, infinitely speaking, of all of
Creation. Because that which was the Mind of God was what was Presencing
Itself, as what you might call, their Mind.

And so everything that occupied the Mind of God occupied the minds of
the Sons and Daughters of God. And Being was a matter of the conscious
reveling in the awesomeness&mdash;the infinite awesomeness of Creation.
Because all of Creation infinitely speaking, was immediately and
simultaneously available to every Son and Daughter of God to feel and
experience and to be loved by, because as I&rsquo;ve said, Love is the
substance of Being.

And so, Love is the substance of Creation. And if all Creation is what
constitutes the content of the minds of the Sons and Daughters of God,
then the experience is one of being infinitely Loved. And at the same
time, being infinitely Loving.

Now, figuratively speaking, we&rsquo;re going to say that a couple of
the Sons and Daughters of God decided to play a game called,
&ldquo;Let&rsquo;s Pretend.&rdquo; Let&rsquo;s pretend that we are
sea-farers. And let&rsquo;s pretend that as we sail the seven seas, we
come across pirates. And we dedicate our lives to eradicating the seven
seas of pirates and the dastardly deeds that they do to poor innocent
human beings.

And the Father looks at them participating in this game of
&ldquo;Let&rsquo;s Pretend&rdquo; and thinks nothing of it. And as they
play their game, they come across pirates and they fight with them and
they run&rsquo;em thru and they make a little hash mark on the end of
their sword for each one&mdash;each dastardly pirate that they&rsquo;ve
killed. And at the end of the day, they get together and they compare
hash marks. &ldquo;I killed eighteen pirates!&rdquo; &ldquo;Well, I
killed thirty-three. You didn&rsquo;t do quite as good as me. I did the
best!&rdquo;

Of course, all of this is thinking.

Now, here they have gotten really intent upon the game they&rsquo;re
playing&mdash;really caught up in it. And so the one who only killed
thirteen, feels bad. And the one that killed more feels really good.
And so they have a way of measuring themselves and each other. How? By
means of thinking. And one is not as good and one is very good. Thinking
is used for comparisons. Thinking is used for value judgments.

Thinking is used for ascertaining one&rsquo;s value or one&rsquo;s
valuelessness. Thinking is used for determining another&rsquo;s value or
valuelessness. And what happens? It becomes obvious that in this state
of imagination, one has emotions&mdash;good proud feelings and sad,
self-demeaning feelings. And those engaging in these games realize that
these emotions are usable. For what purpose? For the purpose of control.
For the purpose of manipulation. Because thinking amounts to
judgment&mdash;evaluation that is consummated in judgment.

Now, here killing has gone on in the imagination. Assessments of each
other have occurred. Valuations and devaluations have occurred. And acts
of manipulation have developed between these individuals perceiving
themselves to be &ldquo;sailors of the seven seas&rdquo;&mdash;the
vanquishers of pirates, the do-gooders! But even as the do-gooders, they
still can do real well, or not so good. And then feel bad or good
because of where they stand. And they end up hurting each by means of
their judgments.

Now, the Father continues to watch. The Father sees that nothing but
imagination is going on. He sees that no-one has been killed. And He
sees that the &ldquo;sailors of the seven seas&rdquo; who are feeling
good or bad depending upon which end of the stick they are looking from,
are not guilty of anything either because He knows they&rsquo;re not
&ldquo;sailors of the seven seas&rdquo; and He knows that whatever
they&rsquo;re feeling and whatever they think they&rsquo;re doing
isn&rsquo;t actually happening except within the context of this
imaginative scenario that they have built up and played into. And so,
there is no judgment from the Father except, &ldquo;These are my beloved
Sons and Daughters in whom I am well pleased, because they haven&rsquo;t
for a moment stopped being Me expressed&mdash;Me expressing. I have not
been altered by their imagination. And they, the Sons and
Daughters&mdash;My Sons and Daughters&mdash;have not been altered by
virtue of their imagination.&rdquo;

And so, there is still no guilt&mdash;no actual guilt. And the Father,
at no point, sees His Sons and Daughters as guilty. Oh, but they are
denying who they Are. Because they&rsquo;re claiming to be the
&ldquo;sailors of the seven seas&rdquo; and they are ignoring who they
really Are. And isn&rsquo;t that a slap in the face of God? Isn&rsquo;t
that a denial of God? Isn&rsquo;t that an ignoring of their Source?
Well, if God were to say something, He would say, &ldquo;Yes, if they
could actually do it.&rdquo; You see. &ldquo;But they can&rsquo;t
actually do it. And so it hasn&rsquo;t been done. And regardless of the
way they are choosing to perceive themselves at the moment, they are
still My beloved Sons and Daughters in whom I am well pleased.&rdquo;

And so, here you all are, engaged in thinking as you go through your
days and weeks. You use thinking to define yourselves: &ldquo;I&rsquo;m
a nurse. I&rsquo;m a doctor. I&rsquo;m an anesthesiologist. I&rsquo;m a
yoga teacher. I&rsquo;m a housewife. I&rsquo;m a mother.&rdquo; In other
words, I am what I think I am. I am the definition I have arrived at by
virtue of thinking.

But I want you to understand something. We&rsquo;re talking here
&hellip; we&rsquo;re reading about the guiltlessness of the Son of God.
And we&rsquo;re talking about each of you being right now the
Christ&mdash;the Son or Daughter of God, nothing less. The question is,
how do you arrive at the experience of that?

Well, according to thinking: You arrive at that, by perfecting yourself,
by becoming a better and better &ldquo;role.&rdquo; And by overcoming
the negative assessments you make of yourselves and the negative
assessments that others make of you. And by cleansing yourself and
purifying yourself of all of the awful things you&rsquo;ve
done&mdash;all of the shortcomings you have&mdash;all of the things that
affected others negatively because you were not able to fulfill your
role well. That&rsquo;s what you think. That&rsquo;s what you think! Pay
attention to the words.

But we talked last week about the fact that the way to become free of
guilt is to stop thinking. We said that the way to get free of
it&mdash;the way to get in touch with your guiltlessness&mdash;is to
shift from body identification to Mind identification. Simply shifting
your focus of attention from one thing you consciously experience today
to another thing you consciously experience today. Because each of you
does experience Mind and each of you does experience body.

To whatever degree any of you are bound to suffering, sorrow, sickness,
sin and death, it can be attributed to one thing only: thinking. Now I
don&rsquo;t just mean thinking &hellip; your thinking. You think very
specific things, you think: &ldquo;I am a body. I am a mortal. I know
that in the sweet bye and bye I will experience my immortality, but
right now I&rsquo;m a mortal in a mortal body. I&rsquo;m subject to
sickness and death. I&rsquo;m subject to injury. I&rsquo;m subject to
distress others have with me. I&rsquo;m subject to the strongest will
around me.&rdquo; Or, alternatively, arrogantly: &ldquo;I know that I
have the capacity to be at least as strong as the strongest will around
me, and its my learning to learn how to stand up to the strongest will
around me and be equal to it, so that it&rsquo;s a draw&mdash;and there
is balance, equality, and therefore, no more war with that one.&rdquo;

But the fact is that you can look back over the centuries and find that
this line of thinking has not proven to be true. It hasn&rsquo;t brought
peace. It hasn&rsquo;t brought invulnerability to injury, accident,
sickness. The culprit is thinking. And that&rsquo;s why the answer lies
in what we&rsquo;ve referred as the Silence&mdash;the Silence within
you&mdash;which simply means the place where thinking isn&rsquo;t going
on, where you&rsquo;re just being present &hellip; conscious awareness.
You call it Meditation&mdash;it&rsquo;s a specific practice. It&rsquo;s
like a specific use of your mind, a unique and intermittent use of your
mind which even used intermittently, can reduce your blood-pressure and
benefit you physically. Why does it do that? Because even
intermittently, the conscious experience of Silence, the Silence within
you, because it embodies the very nature and function of your
Being&mdash;your divine Being as the Son or Daughter of God that you
are&mdash;it evidences Itself as changed, what you would call, physical
experience, healing in one form or another.

That&rsquo;s how valuable the Silence is. That&rsquo;s how valuable not
thinking is.

Now, I wanted to make one point perfectly clear before we go into the
book. And that is, that even right now, you have not sinned against God.
And in God&rsquo;s Eyes, you are not guilty. And you do not have to
overcome His Perception of you as being guilty before you can be let
back into His Presence, or back into the Kingdom of Heaven. You do not
have to atone to God for something God knows you could never do and
therefore have never successfully accomplished.

Because God does not see you guilty, God has no cause for punishing you.
The very concept of punishment can&rsquo;t come into existence until
guilt is established as a reality. And since guilt is not established in
your Father&rsquo;s Mind, there is no penalty due you. And no penalty
you have to pay. You see, you&rsquo;re already paying a penalty by
thinking. But it&rsquo;s not a penalty laid upon you by anything outside
of you. It&rsquo;s just the experience one has when he or she attempts
to do something that is impossible to do. When you try to do the
impossible, you&rsquo;re constantly faced with the impossibility of it.
And the continued attempt to do what you can&rsquo;t do is not
comfortable. That&rsquo;s all.

Let&rsquo;s go into the book.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you have accepted the Atonement for yourselves&hellip;[^2]
</div>

What would that be? What would be the Atonement that you would accept
for yourselves? The Atonement would be the acceptance of the awareness
that you&rsquo;re not guilty, together with the abandonment of that
which caused you to seem to be guilty which is, thinking, reasoning,
coming to conclusions and treating yourself and others on the basis of
conclusions arrived at as a result of thinking, which the Father did not
give you the capacity to do.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you have accepted the Atonement for yourselves, you will realize
that there IS no guilt in God&rsquo;s Son.
</div>

Either you or anyone else.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And ONLY as you look upon him as guiltless can you understand his
oneness. For the idea of guilt brings a belief in condemnation of one by
another&hellip;
</div>

You see, it takes two to have a difference of opinion, a different point
of view that can amount to condemnation

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; ONLY as you look upon him&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your brother &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; as guiltless can you understand his oneness. For the idea of
guilt brings a belief in condemnation of one by another, projecting
separation in place of unity.
</div>

Or we could say, imagining &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; separation in place of unity.
</div>

Now this next sentence is very important:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You can condemn only YOURSELF&hellip;
</div>

Let&rsquo;s stop right there:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You can condemn only YOURSELF&hellip;
</div>

You [chuckling] you can, with great skill, invite others to condemn
themselves, but they have to engage in the condemnation&mdash;they have
to agree with you. And others can invite you to condemn yourself but
only you can condemn yourself!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You can condemn only YOURSELF, and by so doing you cannot know that you
ARE God&rsquo;s Son.
</div>

How do you condemn yourself? By thinking. In the Silence in you, it is
impossible to condemn yourself. In the Silence and the peace of the
Silence in you&mdash;as full conscious awareness&mdash;it is impossible
for you to condemn.

Well, you know the phrase, &ldquo;The devil made me do it!&rdquo; or,
&ldquo;He made me do it! He&rsquo;s making me feel miserable!&rdquo;
Let&rsquo;s be honest, he may be firmly, enthusiastically and
aggressively inviting you to condemn yourself and to believe that you
are what he sees you are, but you have to take the bait, and YOU have to
agree. And when you agree, you have engaged in condemning yourself.

And you had to arrive at that decision by thinking. And the way out of
the whole mess is to stop thinking! When you have stopped thinking and
are in your peace, you can hear the invitations of others, no matter how
aggressively they&rsquo;re put forth to see yourself as condemnable. But
you see it as nonsense and it clearly stands forth to you as a behavior
reflecting certain thoughts that that one is engaging in about himself
in his world that he is caught by, and that it is illegitimate for him
to be caught by.

And so, it does not call forth defense from within you. But calls forth
the clarity in you about the truth about your brother so that you might
respond to the underlying ignorance that is causing your brother to try
to control you so that you will be in a way that doesn&rsquo;t offend
his definitions. And you become an agent for change. And the way you are
an agent for change is benign, is the embodiment of Love.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You can condemn only YOURSELF, and by so doing you cannot know&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you can not know &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; that you ARE God&rsquo;s Son.
</div>

Why? Because in order to condemn yourself you have to be engaged in
thinking which means that you are still claiming to be an orphan.
You&rsquo;re still identifying yourself as an orphan. And as long as you
are claiming that you&rsquo;re an orphan by means of your employing
judgment, you are consciously denying what you truly are. And are still
experiencing the disconnect from God. And so &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you cannot know that you ARE God&rsquo;s Son. You have denied
the condition of his Being&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; which means you have denied the condition of your Being.

What is your condition? Your condition is, that you&rsquo;re nothing
more nor less than what God is Presencing Himself as right there where
you are. And your function is the function of His Mind that He&rsquo;s
embodying right there where you are, which is Love not guilt, which is
purity not conflict, which is that which cannot be caught in limitation.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have denied the condition of his &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Being, which is his perfect blamelessness.	
</div>

That&rsquo;s the condition of your Being. That is the condition of your
Being.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Out of Love&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning, what the Father is.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Out of Love he was created&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you were created.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip;and in Love he abides.
</div>

You abide right now! There is no judgment upon you from the Father. You
are not guilty in the Father&rsquo;s eyes.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Out of Love &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you were &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; created, and in Love he &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you abide.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Goodness and mercy have always followed him&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; always followed you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; for he &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; has always extended the Love of his Father.
</div>

You see, even though a few of the Sons and the Daughters of God are
swashbucklers on the high seas in their imagination, they haven&rsquo;t
stopped being the Sons and Daughters of God reflecting God, embodying
God. None of you has for a moment ever in the slightest way diminished
the fullness of God that God is Being right where you are. So you have
always extended the Love of your Father, the Being of your Father.

You see, we&rsquo;re still talking about a shift of perception, a shift
from body identification to Mind identification, from orphanhood to the
Sonship, from orphanhood to the conscious experience of having a Father,
of having a Source that is responsible for every aspect of your Being.

Oh, but as a body it seems obvious to you, as an orphan it seems obvious
to you that you&rsquo;re responsible for your well-being, and
that&rsquo;s why you have to think. You have to think so you can figure
out how to be responsible for yourself, you see.

Thinking is always a process of problem-solving. You think in order to
overcome the problem of being. And the problem of being that
you&rsquo;re experiencing is this mad idea that you&rsquo;re an orphan,
that you&rsquo;re on your own, that you are a body instead of the
infinite, boundless, boundaryless Mind in which the experience of body
and Universe, and all of Creation is going on.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As you perceive the holy companions who travel with you&hellip;
</div>

Well, what does that mean so far? Who are these holy companions who
travel with you? Well, it is true that you are companioned by the Holy
Spirit. And you are companioned by those who are Awake. But as you
perceive that everyone that&rsquo;s in your experience, all of your
brothers and sisters are holy companions. Because in actuality,
regardless of how you&rsquo;re seeing them or how they&rsquo;re seeing
themselves, they are and must be right now, nothing more nor less than
the evidence of God Being right now, in the act of Creation right now,
right there where they are and right where you are&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you will realize that there IS no journey&hellip;
</div>

Because becoming equal to the Son of God or refining yourself, or
spiritualizing yourself until you&rsquo;re worthy of being the Son of
God is a bunch of imaginative nonsense. Because all of you on the road
thinking you&rsquo;re moving toward your ultimate, Are the ultimate.

So the journey is meaningless. And the only thing called for is for all
of you to wake up to the truth right here where you are on the road,
which is why I say so many times, bring innocent eyes to your
apprehension of everything so that you might see the more of what God is
Being right here, today&mdash;now. Because right here on the road that
you think you&rsquo;re moving forward on to your ultimate goal is, the
Ultimate simply waiting for you to see it because you&rsquo;ve stopped
ignoring it, thinking that it&rsquo;s somewhere down the road at the end
of time. And remember last week I pointed out that the end of time is
nothing more than the boundary between your identifying yourself as body
and your identifying yourself as Mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Son of God, who sleepeth not, has kept faith with his Father FOR
you.
</div>

Who is the Son of God who sleepeth not, that has kept faith with his
Father for you? The Holy Spirit. What is the Holy Spirit? That which is
nothing more than your right Mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Son of God, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip;the Real You &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip;who sleepeth not, has kept faith with your Father FOR you.
</div>

&hellip; while you pretend to be an orphan. All of what&rsquo;s true
about you is true right now, present right now, active right now and
available to you the moment you stop thinking&mdash;the moment you let
yourself experience Silence&mdash;the moment you express genuine
curiosity. And genuine curiosity is not a matter of saying, &ldquo;What
is that, what is that, what is that, what is that, what is that, what is
that, what is that?&rdquo; &hellip; and never shutting up, just being
aggressively curious, &ldquo;What is that? What is that? And what is
that, and what is that, and what is that?&rdquo; That&rsquo;s not
Silence.

When you have genuine curiosity, what do you do? You shut up and pay
attention!

Ahh &hellip; that is the function of Mind, isn&rsquo;t it. That is your
divine function. And in the absence of all of the jabbering that occurs
that you call thinking, in the Silence that ensues, you end up being
nothing more or less than that which is paying attention, the condition
or state of attentiveness. An attentiveness is an invitation for
Something to enter you, you see.

I&rsquo;ve said before, that there is a place of excellence in you,
divine excellence, ultimate excellence, right here, right now. And
we&rsquo;ve referred to it as the Altar in the very center of you. And
this is the place of Silence, in which, because there is Silence, the
Voice for Truth, the Holy Spirit&mdash;that which is nothing more than
your right Mind&mdash;can begin to register with you and bring you into
the Oneness of yourself. Because in the silent attentive invitation to
know, you&rsquo;ve abandoned orphanhood. You&rsquo;ve stepped over the
boundary between body identification and Mind identification.

You can be curious about anything and everything that confronts you.
It&rsquo;s easy to be curious about a new flower that has just bloomed.
It is equally easy to be curious about a neighbor or a friend or
anything else that is in front of you during your day. All it means
is&mdash;and nobody needs to know that you&rsquo;re doing this&mdash;all
it means is that you&rsquo;re willing to be still and pay attention with
a silent invitation to Know and see the More that is there than what
your definitions have been allowing you to see.

So you do not need to go into a monastery or a cave to wake-up. You have
to be willing to be more present with everything that has been in your
daily experience than you&rsquo;ve ever been before, minus the
definitions you have placed between you and that which you would pay
attention to.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is no road to travel on, and no time to travel through.
</div>

You see, but that&rsquo;s the idea, you&rsquo;ve got to go on your
trek&mdash;your spiritual quest. And you&rsquo;re going to go on it
moving forward in time. No, that is not going to work because time is a
perception. It is a definition that you have a very strong belief in.

The way out of time is to step over the threshold between body
identification and Mind identification.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is no road to travel on, and no time to travel through. For God
waits not for His Son in time, being forever unwilling to be without
him.
</div>

Well, we can put it a little bit more direct than that. God is not
forever unwilling to be without you, God forever Wills to be with you.
And if that is God&rsquo;s Will, that is what is done. And that is the
way it is, no matter what you think.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip;God waits not for His Son in time, being forever unwilling to be
without him. And so it has always been.
</div>

Therefore, so it is now. So not only are you not labeled guilty by God,
with a guilt that has to be paid for, you aren&rsquo;t separated from
Him by time or by anything. And so it has always been.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Let the holiness of God&rsquo;s Son shine away the cloud of guilt that
darkens your mind, and by accepting his purity
</div>

&hellip; Whose? The Son of God

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip;by accepting his purity as yours, learn of him that it IS yours.
</div>

Now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Let the holiness of God&rsquo;s Son shine away the cloud of guilt that
darkens your mind&hellip;
</div>

I want to point something out here. Let&rsquo;s say an injury has
occurred, an illness seems to be occurring. Misfortune has taken place
and the one to whom its happened is suffering. And that one comes to you
wanting healing.

How are you going to heal?

Well, I&rsquo;m going to tell you first of all, that if you hold that
one to be a body, you&rsquo;re not going to heal. If you hold him in
your mind to be an organism that is the current end result of evolution,
you&rsquo;re not going to have healing. If you see him as an entity who
has not followed the rules, and is therefore suffering from having
broken the rules, you are not going to see healing. If you see him as a
body, whatever he&rsquo;s suffering from has to be legitimate because
its part and parcel of being a body&mdash;it&rsquo;s part and parcel of
being an orphan.

If you&rsquo;re going to see healing there, you are going to have to
consider your brother from a different vantage point. You&rsquo;re going
to have to be willing in your mind, to step across the threshold of body
identification to Mind identification. You&rsquo;re going to have to
step across the boundary in your mind of orphanhood to Sonship.

You&rsquo;re going to have to do that yourself because that&rsquo;s the
only place where your brother will be guiltless. And as long as he is
guilty, he has no right not to be suffering because his suffering is
punishment for his guilt&mdash;they are inseparable.

And I&rsquo;m telling you that when you take the time to be present with
your brother who is in need, and you are willing to step over that
threshold from body identification to Mind identification&mdash;from
orphanhood to Sonship&mdash;you&rsquo;re first of all, not going to be
engaging in thinking. And you&rsquo;re going to be quiet, so that you
are receptive to the Vision of the truth about your brother and you will
hold him to be innocent. You will find yourself holding him in his
innocence, in a conscious clear awareness of innocence that is God
derived, and that God never withheld or withdrew from him and that which
is therefore Absolute right now.

You&rsquo;re going to have to take the radical stand, the radical
position, the radical unreasonable position that your brother is
guiltless. Why? Because he&rsquo;s not an orphan. Because he isn&rsquo;t
what he thinks he is. He isn&rsquo;t even what you thought he was, even
with your best thinking. He&rsquo;s more than that. And you&rsquo;ve got
to be willing to step across that boundary and join with the Father.

And when you do, you will see healing. You call such a step of crossing
over the boundary and embracing a completely foreign&mdash;these
aren&rsquo;t the best words&mdash; but a completely foreign mindset, you
see that as not natural, as not normal. But until you begin to do it,
you will not have the opportunity to find out that you are actually
crossing over the boundary into your natural condition, which uncovers
the truly natural condition of others to them.

And I will tell you that every spiritual healing that has ever occurred,
has been the evidence of someone not agreeing with the evidence, the
behavioral evidence, the experiential evidence, or the physical evidence
of sickness, illness, injury and even death. Such a stance has to have
been taken. And in all cases, in order for that stance to become
established in the one being the agent for change, that one has to have
had a love of God first. That one, even if only temporarily, has had to
own his place in the Sonship and love God so much that he wanted what
God is Being to be uninhibitedly manifest, no longer covered up. Because
he loved his brother enough to stop thinking about him and stop
misidentifying him and stop looking at him from the vantage point of
being an orphan himself.

The Agent for change had to abandon his orphanhood and let God into him.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You are invulnerable BECAUSE you are guiltless. You can hold on to the
past ONLY through guilt. For guilt establishes that you will be&hellip;
</div>

&hellip;future tense&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip;punished for what you have done, and thus depends on
one-dimensional time, proceeding from past to future.
</div>

Past to future &hellip; ah-ha &hellip; history! You are all victims of
your history. And you are only victims of your history. You love your
history, you value your history. But history is a two-edged sword we
might say. If you have an excellent history, let&rsquo;s say your work
history is excellent, and you have worked for excellent companies and
each time you move from one company to another it was with a position of
advancement and greater responsibility &hellip; ahhh &hellip; your
history gives you identity. You see. And of course you need a history to
give you identity, because as an orphan, you don&rsquo;t have an
inheritance from your father or mother, you see. Your history tells you
what you are, and it tells you how good you are at what you are.

But you know what? That kind of a history victimizes you, just as much
as the history of the three jail terms you had: The long periods of
unemployment that you had, and the periods of employment you had that
were, humm, not that great&mdash;nothing to indicate substance and
quality to you. You understand that that kind of history can victimize
you. But you don&rsquo;t understand that an excellent history victimizes
you as well. In fact, it almost victimizes you more tightly because
pride is attached to it.

Remember, no matter what the past says about you, it is reflecting and
embodying and seeming to manifest one thing only: The orphan mentality.
And it is embodying the results of your very definite thinking processes
because you had to think in order to come up with the definitions that
say, &ldquo;A succession of good jobs with increasing responsibility
means you are a person of substance, that you are respectable and that
you are valuable!&rdquo; Someone had to think that up. It isn&rsquo;t
true. You see. But because it sounds so good and it&rsquo;s so pleasing,
you know what? It makes you really reluctant to abandon being an orphan.
It makes you really reluctant to step over the threshold into that
natural condition of your Being in which your every need is met because
it&rsquo;s the nature of Being Itself to identify Itself&mdash;to
manifest Itself, to experience Itself wholly, fully, with nothing
withheld from It.

And so everything is, for lack of better words, provided to you. Those
words have meaning for an orphan. But for one who is Awake, everything
is you. You are wholeness from which nothing is left out infinitely. You
don&rsquo;t have to earn it. You don&rsquo;t have to behave in a certain
way in order to experience it. It is your Birthright!

Your history tells you what you are and how good you are at being it. It
tells you whether you&rsquo;re a good person or a bad person, a good
orphan or a bad orphan. But because its only telling you whether
you&rsquo;re a good orphan or a bad orphan, it isn&rsquo;t telling you
anything about you. Do you see that? Because you are the Son or Daughter
of God, the wholeness of Being embodied by God, not by your actions,
right where you are&mdash;right where you are &hellip; Aware.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You can hold on to the past ONLY through guilt. For guilt establishes
that you will be punished for what you have done, and thus depends on
one-dimensional time, proceeding from past to future. No-one who
believes this can understand what ALWAYS means.
</div>

When you hear the word, &ldquo;always&rdquo; you tend to think of it in
terms of time&mdash;endless time. The meaning of the word
&ldquo;always&rdquo; can in a limited way, be understood as synonymous
with wholeness&mdash;infinite wholeness.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
No-one who believes this&hellip;
</div>

I&rsquo;m going to back up&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You can hold on to the past ONLY though guilt. For guilt establishes
that you will be punished for what you have done, and thus depends on
one-dimensional time, proceeding from past to future. No-one who
believes this can understand what ALWAYS means. And therefore guilt MUST
deprive you of the appreciation of eternity. You are immortal BECAUSE
you are eternal, and always MUST be now. Guilt, then, is a way of
holding past and future in your minds to ensure the ego&rsquo;s
continuity. For if what has been WILL be punished, the ego&rsquo;s
continuity is guaranteed. Yet&hellip;
</div>

&hellip;and this is key

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip;the guarantee of your continuity is God&rsquo;s, not the
ego&rsquo;s. And immortality is the opposite of time, for time passes
away, while immortality is constant.
</div>

What are you guilty of? Are you guilty of things you did poorly as an
orphan? Are you guilty for what you thought you did as a figment of your
imagination?

If you&rsquo;re not guilty, why aren&rsquo;t you Awake? Ahh, [chuckling]
see, the ego will stick ya somewhere, &ldquo;If you&rsquo;re not guilty,
how come you&rsquo;re not Awake?&rdquo; Well, you don&rsquo;t have to be
guilty in order to not be Awake. You simply have to be engaging in
something that doesn&rsquo;t work. You simply have to be attempting to
do something that&rsquo;s impossible. But because you can&rsquo;t
accomplish it, you can&rsquo;t be guilty for it. If you are not guilty
for it, there cannot be a penalty for it that is going to take time for
you to fulfill before you will be free.

If you were guilty of anything, we might have to say that you were
guilty of thinking. But remember my opening statement? God did not give
you the capacity to think! If you thought you had the capacity to think
and you could actually accomplish it, then you might be guilty. But to
be thinking is as much an illusion as the pretend role of being a
swashbuckling sailor on the seven seas. You can seem to engage in it,
but nothing is happening. So you&rsquo;re not even guilty of thinking.

Now, let&rsquo;s be grounded here: If you are engaging in thinking, you
are engaging in something you can&rsquo;t accomplish. And in engaging in
something you can&rsquo;t accomplish, does constitute a distraction from
truth.

The answer is to stop engaging in the distraction. That&rsquo;s all!

And so this week, I&rsquo;m going to invite you to go through your day,
doing your best to remember for as long as you can&mdash;which
you&rsquo;ll find won&rsquo;t be very long, but to try to the best of
your ability for as long as you can&mdash;to look at a thing and not
think about it. To look at a thing, to embrace the view whether
it&rsquo;s a wide angle vision or a close-up narrow, focused vision. And
just be present with that thing and pay attention.

So you have a chatty neighbor. And she&rsquo;s a little bit crotchety
and she&rsquo;s always complaining. And it&rsquo;s not much fun to be
around her because everything that comes out of her mouth is some sort
of negative and she happens to be right behind you in the line in the
grocery store while you&rsquo;re waiting for the person with a humungous
order in front of you that&rsquo;s going to take time.

Ordinarily, if you&rsquo;re confronted with this, you place between
yourself and this person a barrier of a definition&mdash;one that will
allow you to discount her or him&mdash;one that will allow you to stand
there without being touched. You will maintain a picture made up of
imaginative thoughts that have, I&rsquo;m going to say, devolved into a
poor definition.

But now, here you are, tomorrow or the next day, after I&rsquo;ve said,
Be willing to be present without thinking. What are you going to do?
Well, a hint: Try listening below the surface. Try being present with
her, or him. Listening for what is underneath their behavior&mdash;his
behavior, her behavior. Listen for their need.

You hear the word, &ldquo;listen?&rdquo; That&rsquo;s how you shut-up
thinking. You listen. Listen many times during the day. Practice being
present with your world without thinking as often as you can. Like I
say, it may only be a fraction of a second before [finger snap] your
mind is racing with thoughts. But your intent to do this, brought into
play repetitively during the day, will bring you to a point where your
being present with another, or being present with a thing without
thoughts, endures a little bit longer.

There&rsquo;s more there of what God is Being than what you&rsquo;re
seeing. Want to experience it enough to be genuinely and honestly
curious and be still &hellip; still the thinking &hellip; still the
awful thinking &hellip; still the malicious thinking &hellip; still the
judgmental thinking! And still the false, syrupy love that you would
embrace them in.

Be still &hellip; knowing that in the Silence where you are crossing
over the threshold between body and Mind identification, you are being
the conscious invitation for the experience of God&rsquo;s Perspective,
which is your true perspective.

That&rsquo;s your practice for this week. Now when we get together next
week, I&rsquo;m not going to ask you how well you did, or how many
notches you have on your sword. It&rsquo;s not a test. It&rsquo;s a
practice at coming back into your right Mind by letting your right Mind
back in by abandoning the orphan mentality.

Guilt is a tool used in the realm of orphanhood only. And the penalties
that it has been decided must be extracted as a result of guilt, only
seems valid in the realm of orphanhood. Step over the threshold, and the
fantasy is gone.

And you become an agent for change&mdash;a beneficent, benign presence
inspiring those still bound by their sense of orphanhood to let go of it
as well.

You&rsquo;re here to be an inspiration. The Real You, the Christ that
you are, is here to be the inspiration that breaks the
illusion&mdash;that ends the dream&mdash;not by doing anything to it,
but by not being in it and knowing that you&rsquo;re not in it. So that
you know that your brother isn&rsquo;t in it either and can show him the
way out.

I love you, I love you, I love you, I love you, I love you, I love you,
I love you, I love you, and I love you &hellip; and I love all of you.

Join me all of you, please, join me in the silence of honest curiosity
and attentiveness so that we might all Be the mouthpiece for
God&mdash;be the mouthpiece for Good, be the mouthpiece&mdash;the Place
where that which inspires healing comes forth and heals.

I look forward to being with you next week.

[^1]: Book of Genesis
[^2]: T11.9 Guiltlessness and Invulnerability

