---
title: Jul 15, 2006
ref: "T11.9 Guiltlessness and Invulnerability"
alink: "/acim/text/11/chap1109/"
---

Good evening, and welcome to everyone who's joining us on the Internet.

Well, we&rsquo;re coming to the end of another Chapter. We are moving
through the book. It might be well or helpful to remember what the
Chapter is called. It&rsquo;s called:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*God&rsquo;s Plan for Salvation*[^1]
</div>

Sometimes when we get into the thick of the human condition and
we&rsquo;re discussing it, it&rsquo;s hard to remember that it&rsquo;s
been done in the context of God&rsquo;s plan for Salvation. And so it
seemed perhaps to be laborious, hard work to implement the things that
we&rsquo;ve been discussing, when you would think that God&rsquo;s plan
for Salvation would be buoyant and uplifting. And indeed, it is. But
your habit is to be serious&mdash;the human condition.

That&rsquo;s what you&rsquo;re being saved from&mdash;the human
condition.

You have all thought that the human condition was the way things are.
And that you must cope with it the best you can. And indeed, in the
process, develop better coping skills.

But we&rsquo;ve made it clear that the human condition is nothing more
than the experience of the state of orphanhood. And we&rsquo;ve
discussed that in light of the fact that you aren&rsquo;t orphans!
Therefore the state of orphanhood and the experience of the human
condition is not, &ldquo;the way things are.&rdquo; There&rsquo;s an
alternative. You&rsquo;re not stuck in it unless you believe that
it&rsquo;s, &ldquo;the way things are,&rdquo; and that&rsquo;s it.

So, you have been provided with a way out of the human condition.
That&rsquo;s what all of this that we&rsquo;ve been discussing is about:
The way out of the human condition.

Now if the human condition is the definition of the state of orphanhood,
and if you aren&rsquo;t really orphans, you have just been convinced
that you are, then the way out of the human condition is the way out of
orphanhood. The solution has nothing to do with improving the human
condition. It has to do with moving out of a mindset into the truth
about you.

The last time we met, we discussed the fact that the way out of
orphanhood is to cancel your divorce from your Father&mdash;from your
Source. And we talked about the fact that that is the equivalent of
shifting from body-identification to Mind-identification&mdash;where you
are not seeing yourself as a small figure/object moving through space.
But rather as the Mind which is boundaryless, in which all of these
experiences are going on.

We also talked about the fact that to step out of time into eternity is
something that happens at the boundary between body-identification and
Mind-identification.

At the bottom line, God&rsquo;s Plan for Salvation is for you to come
back into your right Mind, to come back into that place of excellence
that I have described as being in you. Ultimately, the place of
excellence is not in you, it Is you. The place of excellence is the Mind
that you Are&mdash;that which you really Are.

Now, if you have been attempting to implement the directions I have
given, especially in terms of abandoning thinking, you have become
clearly aware of how addicted you are to your thinking. Not that you
love it, not that you go looking for it, but that you employ it
spontaneously&mdash;like a reflex action that you&rsquo;re not
responsible for. It just happens! And there you are thinking &hellip;
and there you are justifying yourself &hellip; and there you are
evaluating another &hellip; and there you are weighing all the factors
so as to ensure your safety.

If you have been anywhere diligent in trying not to think, you have been
confronted with how difficult it is not to think.

Now, for many of you, you&rsquo;ve had the chance to observe someone
else in your experience who&rsquo;s having a problem. And you&rsquo;ve
been able to look at them and clearly see that they&rsquo;re being
caught in the problem is a result of their thinking and the fact that
they will not abandon their thoughts. You would say, they&rsquo;re
unwilling to abandon what they believe, even though it&rsquo;s clear to
you that what they&rsquo;re believing isn&rsquo;t true.

The simple fact is, that the only thing you can believe are the thoughts
you employ. So, when you look at these friends or relatives who are
literally caught, and you see how easy it could be for them to be
released from what they&rsquo;re caught in, it&rsquo;s obvious to you
that all they have to do to get out of it is to change their mind.

Now, you can see this with others. And then you look at yourself,
especially if you&rsquo;re not in the middle of a crises, and you say,
&ldquo;Well, my thinking is benign. My thinking &hellip; I&rsquo;m not
trapped, I&rsquo;m not feeling trapped, I&rsquo;m not feeling as though
I&rsquo;m in the middle of a crises, therefore there&rsquo;s no call for
me to change my mind.&rdquo;

But if you&rsquo;re thinking, you are still identifying yourself as an
orphan. You&rsquo;re still not Awake! You&rsquo;re still not in that
place of excellence in you where you are automatically joined with the
Holy Spirit&mdash;that which is nothing more than your right Mind.

If you&rsquo;re thinking, you&rsquo;re not in the Silence that is
essential for you to have enlightenment&mdash;for you to have a sudden
shift of perception. Even if you are thinking benign thoughts, you are
still in the middle of an addiction. And you are still sound asleep,
which is not your goal.

You must arrive at a point where you don&rsquo;t value your thinking no
matter how benign or good it is. As long as you are thinking,
you&rsquo;re not listening. As long as you are thinking, you are
projecting your will and you are not receptive.

You cannot stand in receipt of anything when you are thinking. And
that&rsquo;s the way you keep yourself bound in orphanhood. And
that&rsquo;s also the way in which you block the experience of
God&rsquo;s Plan for Salvation&mdash;your salvation.

Now, there&rsquo;s another thing to be aware of when it comes to the
truth about thinking. And that is, that at the bottom line, the reason
you engage in thinking is to establish your righteousness. I&rsquo;m not
talking about any ultimate divine form of righteousness. I am talking
about self-righteousness!

Thinking is always used for the purpose of arriving at a clarity of your
rightness. In other words, that you are not wrong. But you are right
over and against what is wrong. You think to prove that you&rsquo;re
right. And if you&rsquo;re attempting to prove that you&rsquo;re right,
you are in an antagonistic stance. You are in an argumentative stance.
You are trying to prove it to someone.

Only an orphan feels a need to prove righteousness. And the orphan feels
a need to prove his righteousness because he feels unrighteous. And the
reason he feels unrighteous&mdash;at a disadvantage&mdash;is because the
very concept of orphanhood is an illusion. It&rsquo;s not Real. It is
not your Birthright and it is not what you Are. And you feel that, you
Know that.

But the solution does not lie in being an orphan who succeeds in proving
that he&rsquo;s righteous. The solution lies in abandoning the state of
orphanhood itself. It lies in your abandoning your divorce from the
Father&mdash;your declaration of independence. This is not a hard thing
to do. It&rsquo;s just that you have such a strong commitment to trying
to prove that you can be something on your own.

You can stop it at any time. And you can stop it at any time by taking a
deep breath, turning your attention toward God and saying,
&ldquo;Father.&rdquo; Just that word alone said genuinely, breaks the
isolation&mdash;breaks the orphanhood. &ldquo;Father, show me the truth
about me. Reveal to me the truth about me. Fill me with the awareness
that it&rsquo;s my birthright to be experiencing. Help me be in my right
Mind.&rdquo; And then be quiet.

You must invite the experience of your right Mind in. Instead of
automatically going into high gear asserting your
righteousness&mdash;defending yourself against all that is apparently
attempting to get you down.

Now, I realize I&rsquo;m repeating myself&mdash;things I&rsquo;ve said
in the recent past and the distant past. But, as I&rsquo;ve said before,
I will keep doing this until it registers with you. You know that
you&rsquo;re not an orphan. You know it. But you have been claiming to
be an orphan and trying to be the best damn orphan you can possibly be.
Because the suggestion that the state of orphanhood makes, or the
suggestion that the ego gives is, that you actually do have a capacity
to be something significant in your own right, and in fact God gave it
to you. And it is therefore your duty to exercise your free will to be
what God ordained for you to be on your own.

But you know this isn&rsquo;t true. And the ego can&rsquo;t afford for
you to be consciously aware&mdash;fully, consciously, aware&mdash;of
your divinity. And so, it distracts you from your awareness that
you&rsquo;re not an orphan. It distracts you from the truth that as an
orphan, you&rsquo;re nothing. And it says that all of the problems
you&rsquo;re experiencing are not because you&rsquo;re misidentifying
yourself, but because the world is conflicted&mdash;the world really is
polarized. And it is untrustworthy and this is the fertile field that
the Father has given you in which to develop your capacity to practice
self-will successfully.

And so, the flaw in the whole thinking process, which is that
you&rsquo;re misidentifying yourself. And what you&rsquo;re
misidentifying yourself is not the truth about yourself, gets covered up
by projecting the flaw &ldquo;out there.&rdquo; &ldquo;They are flawed.
The world is flawed. The world is polarized and I must address this
flawed world in order to make myself safe.&rdquo;

And that&rsquo;s how you get caught up in becoming a better and better
ego, a better and better orphan. But that isn&rsquo;t God&rsquo;s plan
for Salvation.

You will find that when you abandon this orphan-mentality in favor of
joining with the Father and inviting your right Mind in, letting that
place of excellence in you blossom, if I may put it that way, come into
full expression, that you will never have occasion to defend yourself.
You will never have occasion to assert your righteousness or prove your
righteousness. And the unexpected freebee, if I may put it that way,
that you will get is, the discovery that your world isn&rsquo;t
polarized and that it isn&rsquo;t hostile&mdash;that it is indeed,
Reality or the Kingdom of Heaven.

As you go through this coming week, I want you to be alert and watch how
many times you speak&mdash;you open your mouth and you express your
thoughts. And they are for the sole purpose of demonstrating or
expressing your righteousness. In other words, it is a defense. A
defense is a shield. It is that which confirms separation and disallows
for the unity to occur that is what&rsquo;s really going on, and is what
it is your Birthright to be experiencing without process. I mean by
that, it&rsquo;s your Birthright to experience it without your having to
go through some mental gymnastics or righteous thinking, or correct
thinking.

Your experience can change 180 degrees in a[snaps fingers] split second.
If you will catch yourself the moment you become defensive, the moment
you use your mind to think reasonably, to reason through the situation
and come to justified conclusions, you&rsquo;re going through reasonable
thinking processes means you are going through the past. You are going
through that which is already known, which is exactly what your friends
or family members who are caught in a situation are doing, and you can
see so clearly that they are doing, and that they are binding themselves
by their commitment to their thoughts, no matter how invalid they are.

You have got to come to a point where you find thinking to be so
valueless that you prefer to move into the Silence, even if you
don&rsquo;t have an enlightening answer [snaps fingers] instantaneously.
Because if you move into the Silence with genuine curiosity and an
invitation to the Holy Spirit or the Father to reveal the truth to you,
the healing or transforming truth will unfold, allowing you to behave in
the circumstance you&rsquo;re in without once resorting to
thinking&mdash;without once resorting to your habitual thought-forms or
thought-structures that you had used to make yourself right and thereby
keep yourself safe.

You all think that being right is what makes you safe. No. Being the Son
of God or the Daughter of God which you already Are, is what makes you
safe.

The section we&rsquo;re finishing up is entitled:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*Guiltlessness and Invulnerability*
</div>

You want to be invulnerable. And you&rsquo;re conditioned to believe
that the way to be invulnerable is to be right! And if you&rsquo;re
wrong, heaven help you because you will be at the mercy of circumstances
and mean-spirited individuals and life itself, which isn&rsquo;t fair.

God&rsquo;s plan for Salvation is called, Atonement. Not atonement in
the sense of atoning for your sins, that&rsquo;s an ego concept. But
Atonement in the sense of coming back into your right Mind claiming no
other right use or right to use your mind for a purpose it wasn&rsquo;t
designed. Atonement is shifting from orphanhood to
Sonship&mdash;orphanhood to Brotherhood.

Let&rsquo;s go into the Book.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Accepting the Atonement teaches you what immortality IS&hellip;
</div>

See, atoning for your sins will not teach you what immortality is. It
will just keep you busy longer in the state of orphanhood trying to
improve yourself but still being sound asleep.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Accepting the Atonement &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; shifting from orphanhood to Brotherhood &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip;teaches you what immortality IS, for by accepting your
guiltlessness you learn that the past has never been, and so the future
is needless.
</div>

Can you wrap your mind around that? No. Because you&rsquo;re not used to
thinking in these terms. But it isn&rsquo;t really complicated.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Accepting the Atonement &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; shifting to Brotherhood, shifting to the awareness that you
have a Father &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; teaches you what immortality IS, for by accepting your
guiltlessness you learn that the past has never been, and so the future
is needless.
</div>

Now, we&rsquo;ve already talked about the fact last week&mdash;the last
time we were together&mdash;that when you think about what has been,
when you think and use old information, which is the only thing you can
use to think with, you are confirming your orphanhood, which is
something that can&rsquo;t possibly actually be. And so you&rsquo;re
making a mistake. And committing yourself to a mistake. And you
experience discomfort from it. And therefore, you&rsquo;re obviously
guilty of something. And guilt calls for time to undo it.

And so, it means there must be a future. The past imagined calls the
future into play. If you let go of the past, if you were to let go of
the past completely, you would have no conception of a future because
there would be no need of a future. No need of a future to undo the
past.

This is literal. This is not symbolic. If you stopped thinking, you
would stop bringing all there is to the past into play. And you would be
in the Now of conscious awareness. In other words, of being Mind. You
would have shifted from body-identification to Mind-identification. And
Mind-identification is always a conscious experience of Now, which, when
you, for lack of better words, access it, you find to be Infinite, all
Present&mdash;all Present with nowhere to get to that isn&rsquo;t
present yet. This is literal.

Now, this next sentence is very important.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The future, in time, is always associated with expiation&hellip;
</div>

And I know everyone of you knows exactly what that means, don&rsquo;t
you? Expiation is a word you should understand. Expiation is the setting
right of that which you did that was wrong. Expiation is, for lack of
better words, a cleansing of your sins&mdash;a clearing out.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The future, in time, is always associated with expiation&hellip;
</div>

Now that doesn&rsquo;t mean that you&rsquo;ve always associated it with
expiation. But it is the fact.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The future, in time, is &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; inseparable from, I&rsquo;m going to put it that way instead of

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is always associated with &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; is inseparable from expiation. Because you need time to undo
the awful things that you did.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and ONLY guilt could induce a sense of NEED for expiation.
</div>

Now, expiation can be accomplished in two ways, by definition: One is
through acts of devotion and the other is through acts of penance. Does
this sound very Catholic to you? That&rsquo;s because it is very
Catholic&mdash;literally, very Catholic. Either you can undo the wrongs
through acts of devotion, meaning devotion to God expressed in acts of
one sort or another, or through penance.

Penance &hellip; penance is a penalty you apply to yourself. It&rsquo;s
an act of going through suffering that you place upon yourself as a
means of purifying yourself. But what you need to see is, that whether
you&rsquo;re engaged in acts of devotion or acts of penance, it&rsquo;s
still being engaged in by an orphan. And therefore, they will never
succeed at their imagined intended purpose.

You see, none of this could have any meaning for you if you didn&rsquo;t
have this fundamental concept of yourself, that you are a sinner, that
you are flawed. And that it&rsquo;s a given. It&rsquo;s something that
you can&rsquo;t escape. If you didn&rsquo;t have that fundamental
definition of yourself, you could never be fooled into thinking that you
had to do penance or engage in acts of devotion in order to arrive at
your guiltlessness. Very important.

Now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Accepting the guiltlessness of the Son of God as YOURS is therefore
God&rsquo;s way of reminding you of His Son&hellip;

&hellip; God&rsquo;s way of reminding you of His Son&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you, of His Daughter, you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and what he &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is in truth.
</div>

See, you must be willing to take this radical position of accepting your
guiltlessness in spite of what the state of orphanhood has convinced you
is the opposite.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Accepting the guiltlessness &hellip;
</div>

See, incredible idea of your guiltlessness&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the guiltlessness of the Son of God &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that you are &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; as YOURS is therefore God&rsquo;s way of reminding you of His
Son&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that you are His offspring &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and what he &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; His Son &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is in truth. For God has never condemned His Son, and being
guiltless he IS eternal.
</div>

Well, lets just look at that for a second. Can you see that it truly
could only be if God condemned you &hellip; if God condemned you, that
you could actually could be guilty. I mean, if one of your crazy
brothers condemned you and says you are guilty, are your going take his
word over the Source of your Being? Over your Creator? And you&rsquo;re
going to join with him in his fantasy? And all of a sudden become a
full-fledged orphan and endure all that comes along with it?

Now that is what you&rsquo;ve been doing. But when I put it that way,
you can see how senseless it is.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; God has never condemned his Son&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and therefore&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; being guiltless he &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; God&rsquo;s Son &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; IS eternal.
</div>

Now listen to this:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You cannot dispel guilt by making it real and THEN atoning for it. This
is the ego&rsquo;s plan, which it offers INSTEAD of &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; dispelling it.
</div>

See, the Father, the Holy Spirit, I engage in dispelling your guilt.
Helping you dispel your belief of guilt. We encourage you to shift from
body-identification to Mind-identification. We encourage you to abandon
the belief of being an isolated, separated orphan, by what? Remembering
your Father. Remembering that you have a Father and encouraging you to,
what? Reach out to your Father. Re-embrace your Father.

The answer to guilt is not to correct it, not to do penance for it, not
to engage in acts of devotion to overcome it, but to dispel it by moving
out of the orphan mentality, by moving out of the sinner-mentality. Stop
accepting this outrageous idea that you were a sinner and that you were
born in sin, that you are flawed, after all, you&rsquo;re just human,
you say. When something goes wrong you say, &ldquo;Well, what can you
expect? I&rsquo;m only human.&rdquo; You see, you justify rather than
dispel the suggestion.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You cannot dispel guilt by making it real and THEN atoning for it.
</div>

And you know what? Your brothers and sisters that you&rsquo;re involved
with cannot dispel guilt by making it real or by your helping them make
it real, and then atoning for it &hellip; and then telling them what
they have to do to get into your good graces again, or what they have to
do before you will be willing to love them unconditionally again. You
can&rsquo;t dispel guilt by making it real in your brother and then
atoning for it&mdash;having him atone for it&mdash;any more than you can
dispel guilt in yourself by making it real. &ldquo;Yes, I am a sinner.
Yes, I am a sinner. Yes, I am guilty. Yes, I am a orphan.&rdquo;

No, you are not an orphan! And you must stop thinking like one and you
must stop acting like one. And you must claim the truth for yourself.
How? By declaring it, declaring the thought? No. By turning your
attention toward God and saying, &ldquo;Father,&rdquo; in other words,
&ldquo;Source of my Being, reason for my existing, help me! I reach out
to you. I join with you. I am engaging in an act of
union&mdash;conscious union. I desire not to play into this idiotic idea
that I&rsquo;m alone and that it&rsquo;s a good thing that I&rsquo;m
alone and that You gave me the right to be alone, so that I might learn
to manifest all of the qualities You have instilled in me so that I
might become an excellent example of what You created me to be: An
isolated self-sufficient excellent example of existence. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You cannot dispel guilt by making it real and THEN atoning for it.
</div>

And I&rsquo;m adding the word, &ldquo;However,&rdquo; . .

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is the ego&rsquo;s plan, which it offers INSTEAD of dispelling it.
The ego believes in atonement through ATTACK&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; attack on you! Acknowledge you are a sinner. And the voice for
the ego comes through the churches with all sanctity, &ldquo;My brother,
accept it, you are a sinner. You were born in sin. But there is a way
out of it. And the way out of it is through certain obediences and
through certain penances.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego believes in atonement through ATTACK, being fully committed to
the insane notion that attack IS salvation.
</div>

How many of you when you were youngsters, were sent out by your
&ldquo;friends&rdquo; on a snipe hunt. A snipe, being a bird that only
comes out at night, in fields. And if you take a flashlight and a
gunnysack with you, and you shine the light in the
snipe&rsquo;s&mdash;it&rsquo;s a bird&mdash;in the snipe&rsquo;s face,
it will immobilize it and you can put it into the bag. Well, there are
no such things as snipes and of course if you shown the light in their
face, they would fly off. But all the time you are out there, engaged
with your flashlight, your friends are on the edge of the field,
snickering and watching. And having fun at your expense.

Well, the ego is like that. It&rsquo;s sending you out on a snipe-hunt.
It&rsquo;s sending you out on a wild goose-chase. It says, &ldquo;You
are a sinner.&rdquo; You see. &ldquo;But there are ways for you to
overcome it.&rdquo; And then you, in your ignorance, get out there and
begin to do your penances or your obediences. And the ego sits there and
sniggers at you because it knows it has you by the &hellip; You know
what I mean.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego believes in atonement through ATTACK, being fully committed to
the insane notion that attack IS salvation. And you who cherish guilt
must ALSO believe it, for how else but by identifying WITH the ego could
you hold dear what you do not want?
</div>

Well, you see, you hold it dear because you didn&rsquo;t think you had
any other choice. But what are you learning here? Even if its only
intellectually at the moment. You&rsquo;re learning that your not an
ego. Your learning that you&rsquo;re not an orphan&mdash;and that your
practice of orphanhood, your practice of all the thought structures
around being an orphan, are what keep you bound in insanity.

Now, you know that a lie has been told. And that you&rsquo;ve been
believing a lie and that you have an alternative.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego teaches you to attack yourself BECAUSE you are guilty&hellip;
</div>

The ego says, &ldquo;You must do penances. You must engage in acts of
self-punishment in order to atone for your sins.&rdquo; That&rsquo;s
attack. That&rsquo;s attack upon one who is nothing more, nothing less
than a Son of God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego teaches you to attack yourself BECAUSE you are guilty, and this
must INCREASE the guilt, for guilt is the RESULT of attack. In the
ego&rsquo;s teaching&hellip;
</div>

And this is what must become clear &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In the ego&rsquo;s teaching, then&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; or in the orphan mindset&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; there IS no escape from guilt.
</div>

And that&rsquo;s pretty much where all of you are. You&rsquo;re guilty
and there&rsquo;s nothing you can do about it and all you can do is make
the best of it. And hopefully, you will be able to atone just right. And
receive the grace of the Father and be released. B-u-u-u-t, who knows
for sure? So you make the best of it. You try to be chipper and happy.
But if you don&rsquo;t abandon the concept of being an orphan, you will
not escape from that, because its part and parcel of the illusion that
you can be something that you cannot possibly be.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In the ego&rsquo;s teaching, then, there IS no escape from guilt. For
attack makes guilt real, and if it is real there IS no way to overcome
it.
</div>

And like I said, the only way that you could ever Really, Really be
guilty, is if the Father pronounced you guilty. Which can&rsquo;t
happen! Because you can&rsquo;t stop being or alter in any way what God
is Being, right there where you Are.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In the ego&rsquo;s teaching, then, there IS no escape from guilt. For
attack makes guilt real, and if it is real there IS no way to overcome
it.
</div>

Now, on the other hand &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit dispels it simply through the calm recognition that it
has never been.
</div>

Again, it&rsquo;s a very radical concept, or so it seems. But its simply
and fundamentally true. It&rsquo;s simply and fundamentally true. Before
you had a single thought about it. It&rsquo;s simply and fundamentally
true. The Holy Spirit does the only thing that can be done with guilt:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; dispels it simply through the calm recognition that it has
never been.
</div>

The Holy Spirit dispels the belief in orphanhood simply through the calm
recognition that orphanhood never occurred.

Your right Mind dispels illusion by simply showing that it never
occurred.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As He&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit, your right Mind &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; looks upon
</div>

&hellip; you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the guiltless Son of God, He KNOWS this is true. And being true
for YOU you CANNOT attack yourself, for without guilt attack is
impossible. You, then, ARE saved because God&rsquo;s Son is guiltless.
And being wholly pure, you ARE invulnerable.
</div>

What good news. Difficult to wrap your mind around? Maybe. But now you
have something to try to wrap your mind around, right? Now you have
something hopeful to engage your attention about. Bring your
attentiveness to the truth of this statement. When you say,
&ldquo;Father, give me the experience of the truth of this
statement,&rdquo; you are turning your attention to the truth. You are
bringing your attention to something that is completely and consistent
with the whole way you&rsquo;ve been thinking of yourself and your
world, and the whole way you&rsquo;ve been experiencing yourself and
your world.

If your family or loved ones or friends, who are tightly caught in a
state of crises because they won&rsquo;t let their attention outside of
the thought structures that they are convinced of &hellip;

(Paul: I&rsquo;m sorry I lost it &hellip;)

No&hellip; would dare to give their attention outside of those
structures, they would get their release and you know it! You can see it
as plain as day.

The same thing applies to you relative to the prison you&rsquo;re in as
a result of your benign thoughts. Your benign thoughts still keep you
asleep&mdash;still keep you imprisoned. And you want release. You want
the experience of the promise of God&rsquo;s plan for salvation.

So there are two things this week. The first one is, pay attention to
the thinking that goes on in your mind and notice that in one way or
another, your thoughts are self-justifying. They are an act of
self-defense that makes you right, opposed to something wrong.

Self-righteousness is so opaque, so dense, that you cannot see the truth
through it. If you can&rsquo;t see the truth through inner acts, through
your inner acts of self-righteousness, then your acts of
self-righteousness are your enemy not your ally. And you need to stop
employing self-righteousness just because. Just because, it keeps you
absolutely blinded to your Birthright&mdash;to the truth about you, to
your guiltlessness.

Remember, your guiltlessness is your release from time, the past that
calls for a future in which expiation can take place &hellip; you lucky
dogs!

And the second thing for this week is, to remember numerous times during
the day, to say to God, literally say it to God, &ldquo;Father, I know
that if I exist at all, I must be absolutely guiltless. Please, help me
have the experience of what those words mean.&rdquo;

Express that desire to the Father, not to the powers that be, not to the
Universe, but to your Father, the very Source of your being, That which
is Being Itself/Himself right where you are. It could be sort of
depressing to notice many times during the week, how self-righteous you
are and how spontaneously you employ it.

So, lets balance out the discouragement that might come from that, by
doing something encouraging. And balance it by saying, &ldquo;Father, I
know that if I exist at all, I must be utterly guiltless. Please help me
have the experience of what that means.&rdquo;

It portends for a wonderful week that you won&rsquo;t arrive at the end
of, feeling that it has been nothing but labor. It is not your
Birthright for this to be experienced as laborious.

I love you all you Sons and Daughters of God, and I look forward to
being with you next week. You know the saying, &ldquo;Expect a Miracle!
Expect sudden shifts of perception and know that many sudden shifts of
perception are lined up waiting for you the moment you&rsquo;re willing
to question the validity of your being a sinner who must, through the
practice of expiation&mdash;you won&rsquo;t forget that word for a long
time&mdash;through the practice of expiation, purify yourselves and
someday become worthwhile.

Enough said.

[^1]: T11.9 Guiltlessness and Invulnerability

