---
title: Aug 5, 2006
ref: "T12.1 Crucifixion by Guilt"
alink: "/acim/text/12/chap1201/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

Let&rsquo;s go into the Book &hellip; and I&rsquo;m going to back up
momentarily to the previous paragraph.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Much of the ego&rsquo;s strange behavior &hellip;[^1]
</div>

&hellip; or much of the orphan&rsquo;s &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; strange behavior is directly attributable to its definition of
guilt. To the ego, THE GUILTLESS ARE GUILTY.
</div>

We discussed this at some length last week and so I will not discuss it
at this point. The explanation of this definition is that &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Those who do not attack are its &ldquo;enemies&rdquo;, because, by not
valuing its interpretation of salvation, they are in an excellent
position TO LET IT GO.
</div>

To let what go? The ego. To let go of the state of orphanhood&mdash;the
mindset of orphanhood. And I did talk about the fact that the one thing
the ego cannot defend itself against is disregard.

So, those who disregard the ego are those who aren&rsquo;t hooked by the
orphan mindset. Which means they&rsquo;ve arrived at a point of not
playing into guilt. That&rsquo;s real danger from the ego&rsquo;s
standpoint. And so the guiltless are guilty from the ego&rsquo;s
standpoint.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
They &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; those who do not attack &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; have approached the darkest and deepest cornerstone in the
ego&rsquo;s foundation, and while the ego can withstand your raising all
else to question, it guards this one secret with its life, for its
existence DOES depend on keeping this secret. So it is this secret that
we must look upon calmly, for the ego cannot protect you against truth,
and in ITS presence &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the presence of truth &hellip;  

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the ego is dispelled.

In the calm light of truth, let us recognize that you believe you HAVE
crucified God&rsquo;s Son.
</div>

Again, you don&rsquo;t believe that you&rsquo;re the Christ right now.
Oh, figuratively speaking, you can speak of yourselves as the Sons and
Daughters of God, but you can&rsquo;t own it right now. And you
won&rsquo;t own it right now. It&rsquo;s like admitting your gay or
something&mdash;coming out of the closet! Horror of horrors!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you believe you HAVE crucified God&rsquo;s Son. You have not
admitted to this &ldquo;terrible&rdquo; secret because you STILL wish to
crucify him if you could FIND him. Yet the wish has hidden him from you
because it is very fearful, and you are AFRAID to find him. You have
handled this wish to kill YOURSELF by NOT KNOWING who you are&hellip;
</div>

Now, that doesn&rsquo;t mean that you just decided to do something else.
It&rsquo;s a conscious practice of not knowing. You very specifically do
not know who you are, on purpose. And so, not knowing is something
you&rsquo;re practicing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have handled this wish to kill YOURSELF by NOT KNOWING who you
are&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; who you truly Are. And that&rsquo;s the way you hide what you
truly Are from yourself so that you, whose almighty goal is to be the
ultimate presence of power, cannot find who you really Are and kill it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have handled this wish &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the orphan&rsquo;s wish to be totally something all by itself,
which is the &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; wish to kill &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what you truly Are &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; by NOT KNOWING who you are, and identifying with something
ELSE.
</div>

&hellip; identifying with and as this definition you&rsquo;ve made up of
yourself as an independent autonomous entity&mdash;an orphan.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have projected guilt blindly and indiscriminately, but you have NOT
uncovered its source. For the ego DOES want to kill you, and if you
identify WITH it you must believe ITS goal is YOURS.
</div>

If you are insisting, proudly insisting, upon being an orphan who is
becoming better and better at being an orphan, you are identifying with
that which is a denial of what you truly Are. And you are doing it with
gusto. You are doing it with great conscious intent.

Now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
We once said that the crucifixion is the symbol of the ego. When it was
confronted with the REAL guiltlessness of God&rsquo;s Son it DID attempt
to kill him, and the reason it gave was that guiltlessness is
blasphemous to God.
</div>

Hm-m &hellip; the authorities in Rome thought I was claiming to be a
greater power than him. Those in the church accused me of being equal to
God when I engaged in healing and forgave someone his sins. To be
guiltless was blasphemous.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To the ego THE EGO is god, and guiltlessness MUST be interpreted as the
final guilt which fully justifies murder.
</div>

Do you see that indulging in the idea of being an orphan is utterly
destructive, and therefore, should be recognized by all of you to be
useless, non-productive, and something to abandon? It isn&rsquo;t just
that it&rsquo;s destructive&mdash;sort of like an ongoing nuisance that
undermines peace and order&mdash;it has an ultimate intent. General
dissent, or general dissention, general upheaval becomes tolerable to
you, and you don&rsquo;t realize that in accepting that, and letting
that become tolerable, you are actually accepting the whole ball of wax.
And you become subject to the ultimate of that&mdash;the exaggerated
form of it.

You practice the ultimate form in slow motion, day-by-day &hellip; what?
You get a day older. Day-by-day, you get one day closer to what? Your
grave. Day-by-day, this mindset that isn&rsquo;t challenged, kills you
slowly. And you accept it slowly. You don&rsquo;t like it, but as I said
last week, you don&rsquo;t object to it by doing the one thing that
would undo it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You do not yet understand that all your fear of this course stems
ultimately from this interpretation&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that guiltlessness is blasphemous to God &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; but if you will consider your reactions to it&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; to the Course &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you will become increasingly convinced that this is so.	

This course has explicitly stated that its goal for you is happiness and
peace. Yet you are AFRAID of it.
</div>

You&rsquo;re afraid of this Course. You&rsquo;re afraid of what it
means. And one of the ways you defend yourself against what it means is
to become very intellectual about it. Indeed, the Course refers to
itself as a thought system and you use it as a thought system&mdash;a
way to think &hellip; a way to think, when ultimately the Course is
leading you away from thinking at all.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have been told again and again that it &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Course &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; will make you free, yet you react as if it is trying to
imprison you.
</div>

&ldquo;Well gee, if I not only do what the Course says, but if I do what
you, Raj, are actually saying, it means I&rsquo;m gonna lose the thing
that is most important to me: power, authority, strength. I&rsquo;m
going to lose my capacity to be in charge. You, Raj, tell me that
I&rsquo;m not a puppet without strings. You tell me that I am a puppet,
either of one voice or the other&mdash;the Voice for truth, or the voice
for fear.

&ldquo;This Raj, is not good news. I don&rsquo;t like being told that
I&rsquo;m nothing but a puppet! Yes, I can tolerate the words,
&lsquo;You and your Father are One.&rsquo; I can tolerate them in
theory. It sounds nice, it sounds desirable. But when you tell me that
in order to experience my oneness with the Father, I have to abandon all
false sense of independence, now you&rsquo;re talking hard stuff.

&ldquo;You&rsquo;re saying that this means I have to change. That I have
to change the whole way I&rsquo;ve been being!&rdquo;

Yes I am. Would you like not to die? Would you like to experience
perfection? Would you like to experience invulnerability? Then
you&rsquo;re going to have to change the way you&rsquo;re being.
You&rsquo;re going to have to decide not to continue to play the role of
orphan and the game of orphanhood.

&ldquo;Well Raj, if I do that, how am I going to function in the
world?&rdquo;

I&rsquo;ve said it before, you think that you&rsquo;re going to become
an odd-ball, an outcast, and everyone will reject you.

These are the arguments you have against what the Course is teaching,
against what the truth about you is moving you toward. And it is the way
you kill the Christ. It is the way you keep what you divinely Are hidden
from you. And it is the way you inexorably walk down the path to the
hole in the ground that they will cover over once you&rsquo;re in it.

Is that not justification for changing the way you&rsquo;re being? Do
you really want that?

&ldquo;Oh-h-h, I can deal with it. It&rsquo;s easier to deal with that
because everybody else is doing it. It&rsquo;s easier to do that. And
besides, I have no proof that what you&rsquo;re saying is true, so
nobody is going to think me a fool for not believing you&mdash;for not
believing what the Course is saying. And I&rsquo;d rather die, and in
the meantime have everyone&rsquo;s acceptance of me.&rdquo;

Whew! [chuckling]

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have been told again and again that it &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Course &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; will make you free, yet you react as if it is trying to
imprison you. Most of the time you dismiss it, but you do NOT dismiss
the EGO&rsquo;S thought system.
</div>

Oh-h-h, no.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have SEEN its results &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the results of what the Course is teaching &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and you STILL lack faith in it.
</div>

&ldquo;Oh, I had the most wonderful experience of illumination, in which
the things the Course is teaching became utterly clear to me and for a
week or so after that, it was like I was on Cloud Nine, and I moved
through the world in a whole new way. Ah-h, it was such a wonderful
experience.

&ldquo;But today I have reality to deal with&mdash;a crabby neighbor, a
difficult employer, challenges that I&rsquo;ve got to defend myself
against. But I&rsquo;m sure glad I had that moment of illumination. It
was a high-point in my life.&rdquo;

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You MUST, then, believe that by NOT learning the course you are
PROTECTING yourself. And you do not realize that it is only your
guiltlessness which CAN protect you.

The Atonement has always been interpreted as the release from guilt, and
this is correct if it is understood. Yet even when I have interpreted it
FOR you you have rejected it and have NOT accepted it for yourself. You
have recognized the futility of the ego and its offerings, but though
you do not want the ego you do not look upon the alternative with
gladness.
</div>

You do not look upon the alternative with gladness. Why? Because of your
lust for power. Because of your addiction to the false idea that you can
achieve power and that that is your God-given reason for being, and if
you abandon that, you will become nothing. And you don&rsquo;t look upon
becoming nothing with gladness.

But you see, there&rsquo;s a secret that&rsquo;s being covered up in
this whole dastardly process. And the secret is, that as an orphan, as
what you think you are at the moment, you are nothing. You are nothing,
and you can become nothing, and you never will be anything, because
you&rsquo;re not an orphan!

[Addressing each one in the group] You&rsquo;re not an orphan!
You&rsquo;re not an orphan! You, with your eyes closed on the end of the
couch, are not an orphan! You are not an orphan! You are not an orphan!
You are not an orphan. You, I&rsquo;m not so sure about [group
laughter]. You are not an orphan and you are not an orphan.

Right now, you are not orphans, but you are experiencing a delusion of
being orphans&mdash;being orphans who can become legitimate presences.
That&rsquo;s the false promise. That&rsquo;s the carrot that
you&rsquo;re going after, but you&rsquo;ll never get! And when you get
it, you will have proven that your presence is valid &hellip; but you
will never get it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have recognized the futility of the ego and its offerings, but
though you do not want the ego you do not look upon the alternative with
gladness.
</div>

Until you&rsquo;re able to look at your fascination with being an ego or
an orphan, calmly, in the light of truth, you will not be able to see
that all of the promises of egohood or orphanhood are hollow&mdash;are
empty. There is no fulfillment awaiting you there. And until
you&rsquo;re willing to accept that, you will avoid the alternative. You
will avoid embracing the alternative with gladness, because you will
think there is still hope for you to be what you thought you were going
to be able to become.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You are AFRAID of redemption, and you believe it will kill you.
</div>

That&rsquo;s because you&rsquo;re looking at it from the orphan&rsquo;s
point of view. The minute you discover that you have a Father, and that
you are not an orphan, the concept of being an orphan will suddenly
become invalid&mdash;meaningless. And the orphan, along with all of its
concepts and theories, will disappear. The orphan will become the
nothing that it is at this very instant. Why? Because you will have
regained the direct experience of what you Are.

And so you will not die. You will move from insanity to Sanity, you see,
with absolute continuity&mdash;without interruption of the experience of
conscious Being.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Make no mistake about the depth of your fear. For you believe that, in
the presence of truth, you will turn on yourself and destroy yourself.
</div>

Why? Again, because from the orphan&rsquo;s mindset, the guiltless must
be killed. The guiltless must be annihilated. And so it is inconceivable
to you at the moment, to grasp that the revelation of your guiltlessness
to you will not cause you to be that which must inevitably be
annihilated.

But you see the safety factor here is, that for you to have that
experience, that revelation, that shift of perception, the orphan
mentality which thinks that the guiltless must be killed, will have
vanished, and all that will be left is unalterable eternal life.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Little children, this is not so.
</div>

&hellip; that you will turn on yourself and destroy yourself &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your &ldquo;guilty secret&rdquo; is nothing &hellip;
</div>

It&rsquo;s pure imagination, which you make credible simply by believing
it and being convinced in your belief. But it still doesn&rsquo;t make
it true.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your &ldquo;guilty secret&rdquo; is nothing, and if you will but bring
it to the light the Light will dispel it.
</div>

There&rsquo;s that word again. Dispel. It&rsquo;s like the word,
&ldquo;disillusioned.&rdquo; &ldquo;Oh, I became disillusioned.&rdquo;
And you use the word to describe an experience you&rsquo;re not too
happy about. &ldquo;I thought he was a wonderful guy and I found out
different. I became disillusioned.&rdquo;

Disillusionment is seen as a negative experience, when it means to no
longer suffer from delusion. Dispel, likewise, means that the spell that
you were under has vanished because you withdrew your belief in it. You
dispel guilt. You don&rsquo;t &ldquo;deal&rdquo; with it. You come out
from under the spell of the orphan mentality that determines guilt to be
your natural state and that guiltlessness is not. You come out from
under that spell.

How many of you like yourselves? Oh, you know, year in and out, month in
and month out. I&rsquo;m not talking about at this moment. You might
say, &ldquo;Oh, I like myself pretty well,&rdquo; but month in and month
out do you like yourself very well? Well, let me ask you this: If you
like yourself, why do you keep thinking that you&rsquo;ve got to do
better and better?

&ldquo;Be the best that you can be!&rdquo;

Isn&rsquo;t that a wonderful slogan? Why? Why be the best that you can
be? So that you won&rsquo;t be the worst [group laughter], or less than
what you&rsquo;re capable of being. Why? Because those who are less than
what they can be, are not respectable, are not honored. There&rsquo;s no
payoff in being less than the best.

But I&rsquo;ll tell you something: Trying to be the best that you can be
is going for the carrot, because it is a statement of constant
self-dissatisfaction. You practice constant self-dissatisfaction, and
trying to be the best that you can be is like trying to deal with guilt
by doing penances or devotions. &ldquo;Oh, I&rsquo;m going to be the
best that I can be by doing the best damn devotions with great piety and
religious fervor and sincere desire!&rdquo;

So you&rsquo;re gonna end up being one of the best damned orphans there
ever was, when the only answer to the whole mess is to discover that you
never were an orphan in the first place. And that to try to become
better and better keeps you firmly entrenched in the belief that you
are, when the abandonment of the belief that you are an orphan leaves
your mind clear for the influx of the experience of the Christ that you
are that is already ultimate because God is what constitutes that
Presence, called you.

Now, again, you rely on not being the best that you can be. It keeps you
safe, because [chuckling] who can expect much from someone who is less
than the best that they can be? It&rsquo;s not reasonable is it, to
expect a lot from one who&rsquo;s less than he can be? And so,
you&rsquo;re safe. You&rsquo;re safe from what? You&rsquo;re safe from
having to be clear. You&rsquo;re safe from being dependably on the
mark&mdash;meaning one who others can depend upon. After all, if you can
be dependably right &hellip; what if you&rsquo;re wrong? Everybody will
know it, because they&rsquo;re all depending on you to be right. You
see. And so you&rsquo;re confused. And you fight both sides of the war
&hellip; against yourself.

You are afraid of redemption. To be redeemed is to come back into your
right Mind. To be redeemed is to have the perspective of God because
you&rsquo;re claiming no right to any other perspective. And you think
that that brings with it responsibility, obligation, when being clear is
something there&rsquo;s simply no alternative to. To always know the
truth is something that there&rsquo;s simply no alternative to.

And so you avoid redemption so that you can avoid responsibility for
being utterly right all the time, utterly clear all the time, knowing
the truth all the time.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Little children&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that you will turn on yourself and destroy yourself &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is not so. Your &ldquo;guilty secret&rdquo; is nothing, and if
you will but bring it to the light the Light will dispel it. And then no
dark cloud will remain between you and the remembrance of your Father,
for you will remember His guiltless Son&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and here it&rsquo;s referring to me &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; who did not die because he is immortal. And you will see that
you were redeemed WITH him, and have never been separated FROM him.
</div>

In other words, when the truth about me became clear, the truth about
you became clear. It wasn&rsquo;t that I, by being redeemed, redeemed
you poor souls and some transmogrification occurred, in which you became
something more than you had ever been before. Bullshit! When the truth
about one is demonstrated, the truth about all is demonstrated. And the
only thing that happened was, that ignorance was left behind.

The truth was revealed about all of us.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you will see that you were redeemed WITH him&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; with me &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and have never been separated FROM him.
</div>

&hellip; from me. Meaning, even before this redemption occurred. You
were never separate from me before, and you haven&rsquo;t been separate
from me, after, because it&rsquo;s always been what God is Being.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In this understanding lies your remembering, for it is the recognition
of love WITHOUT fear.

&hellip; it is the recognition of Love WITHOUT fear.
</div>

Why would it say that? It would say that because right now you
don&rsquo;t experience the recognition of love without fear. Always,
love is experienced with fear. Why? Because you think love makes you
weak. You know the saying, &ldquo;Nobody likes a good guy.&rdquo; Nobody
likes someone who&rsquo;s the essence of love either.

Those who are the presence of love are not really very intelligent
because they do not know how to cope with the vicissitudes of life. They
don&rsquo;t have what it takes. They don&rsquo;t have the power and the
authority it takes to stand up against the awfulness of things.
They&rsquo;re sweet, mealy-mouthed creatures. No guts, no substance to
them because they don&rsquo;t know how to cope. You can&rsquo;t cope
with love.

In one way or another, all of you say this in your actions.
&ldquo;You&rsquo;ve gotta take hold of the situation! You can&rsquo;t
namby-pamby around with love. You&rsquo;ve gotta speak up for yourself.
And if you have to, you gotta be down and dirty about it.&rdquo;

So, the thought of being imbued with what love really is, is always
accompanied with fear because you think that it is going to mean
powerlessness&mdash;referring to power of the sort that is important to
the orphan. Personal power. Authoritative presence. Force. The ability
to exert force.

Not to have that is fearful. But again, whatever reinforces the value of
orphanhood keeps you unconscious of what you Are&mdash;keeps you going
for a carrot you will never achieve. And you know what? You&rsquo;re in
hell now or you&rsquo;re in limbo now, where there&rsquo;s never any
forward movement. You&rsquo;re stuck in a repetitive experience of
ignorance. And it&rsquo;s not your Birthright! And all you have to do
to get out of it, is to break the isolation.

&ldquo;Oh, I know. But if &hellip;&rdquo;&mdash;the big word we talked
about last week, Father. &ldquo;Do I really want to say,
&lsquo;Father&rsquo;? Who knows what&rsquo;s going to come if I
genuinely say, &lsquo;Father&rsquo;?&rdquo; See? Fear of redemption.

I have told you that what will come when you say,
&ldquo;Father&hellip;&rdquo; with a recognition that you are speaking to
your Father, will remind you that you are someone&rsquo;s Son or
Daughter from Whom you get your identity.

When you give your allegiance to a concept of orphanhood, you lose the
experience of your identity. And the ongoing mediocrity of your lives,
whether you&rsquo;re wealthy or not, is all the evidence you really need
to prove to yourself that you&rsquo;re not going anywhere. And this is
not a successful avenue to traverse. And that it might be a really
tremendous relief for you to say and mean, &ldquo;Father, I want you
back in my life, together with my awareness that I am Your
Son&mdash;that I am not an orphan&mdash;and that because I am your Son,
I must be something far more wonderful than I thought I could ever be as
an orphan. I must be the Christ, and I&rsquo;m willing to risk whatever
might happen, because I&rsquo;ll tell you, in my no-risk life of
mediocrity, I am not happy, and I&rsquo;m willing to opt for a
change.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There will be great joy in Heaven on your homecoming, and the joy will
be YOURS. For the redeemed son of man &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the orphan &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; IS the guiltless Son of God, and to recognize him IS your
redemption.
</div>

Now, you may have heard what I&rsquo;ve said, or you may go back and
read this &ldquo;in a more grounded way,&rdquo; you would say, a more
sober way, and you might hear it saying awful things about you, and you
might have felt that I have been saying awful things about
you&mdash;that you want to kill the Son of God, that the way
you&rsquo;re using your mind is stupid.

Well, watch out. Because, the tendency tonight may have been, and the
tendency this coming week, if you read this over, may be for you to
throw out your chest and stand tall, and bring all the vigor of your
orphanhood into play and defend yourself. Even if you&rsquo;re saying,
&ldquo;God, what chance did I have to do anything else than what
I&rsquo;ve been doing? I was given this information from the beginning,
so don&rsquo;t stand there and tell me that I&rsquo;m full of
shit!&rdquo;

Oh, there&rsquo;s the proud orphan, reaffirming orphanhood, standing up
for itself, saying, &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t look so poorly on me. If I
could&rsquo;ve done better, I would&rsquo;ve done better. So don&rsquo;t
put me down. Give me enough respect to think that if I could&rsquo;ve
done better, I would&rsquo;ve, because I want to. You think I like this
experience I&rsquo;m in?&rdquo;

[Big laugh] Oh-h, yes, you have liked it. And the very fact that what
we&rsquo;ve talked about tonight might bring this reaction up is
evidence that you like it, and you feel at home with it, and comfortable
with it. And you feel that it is of value because you will be doing this
instead of saying, &ldquo;Ah-h, what a relief this news is. Thank you.
Thank you for telling me I don&rsquo;t have to continue on in this awful
mediocrity, stuck, never moving forward, even though I continuously try.

&ldquo;I am grateful to know there is a way out. I am willing to go
against my inclination to forever defend myself and reassert myself from
my present sense of what I am. And I am willing to allow myself into
this place that feels like I will be totally powerless. And I&rsquo;m
willing to change and to be in a new way.&rdquo;

You see? This book &hellip; it&rsquo;s not about a concept called an
ego. It isn&rsquo;t about ideas of truth and ideas of error. It
isn&rsquo;t full of wonderful intellectual things to contemplate. This
book&rsquo;s about You! You with a capital &ldquo;Y.&rdquo; The You that
You divinely are. The You that it&rsquo;s your Birthright to be
experiencing.

You know what? I asked if you liked yourself. You constantly put
yourselves down, as I said. One example is, that you&rsquo;re constantly
hoping to be better, constantly trying to become better. You&rsquo;re
putting yourself down. And you engage during the day in constantly
putting each other down. And that&rsquo;s the way you keep yourself
locked into the valuable, meaningful experience of guilt. And it&rsquo;s
the way you avoid the experience of guiltlessness.

Stop it!

Be willing to be in your world in a new way. Not so that you can impress
anybody. And do it regardless of how others might react. Do it because
you no longer want to suffer from the ignorance that is inseparable from
this ridiculous idea that you are an orphan, that you are an ego. Do it
because you want to be Sane.

And if you are in an insane asylum, your becoming sane shouldn&rsquo;t
have anything to do with whether or not the other inmates are happy
about it, when their bound not to be happy about it&mdash;when, while
they are insane, they can&rsquo;t possibly grasp what it means.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There will be great joy in heaven on your homecoming, and the joy
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the great joy in heaven upon your homecoming &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; will be YOURS. For the redeemed son of man IS the guiltless Son
of God, and to recognize him &hellip;
</div>

[Addressing each one in the group] &hellip; to recognize him, to
recognize her, to recognize her, to recognize her, to recognize her, to
recognize her, to recognize him, to recognize her, to recognize yourself
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; IS your redemption.
</div>

That&rsquo;s the whole point!

During this coming week, I invite all of you to re-read what we&rsquo;ve
read tonight. In fact, I encourage you to read from the beginning of the
chapter. And be willing to read it with seriousness&mdash;not flighty,
wonderful spiritual thoughts, but in a grounded way where you can calmly
look at the way in which you reinforce your orphanhood. Why? So that you
can beat yourself up? No. So that you can clearly see the things that
don&rsquo;t work, so that you can stop doing them. That&rsquo;s all.

Until you can clearly recognize these things aren&rsquo;t working,
you&rsquo;re still going to value them. But the minute you really see
that they&rsquo;re not working, you&rsquo;re not going to be able to
value them and what you do not value, you let drop away from you.
That&rsquo;s why to read it and not be afraid to look at how these words
describe what goes on in you&mdash;so that you can abandon the things in
you that aren&rsquo;t working. And so that you can, by virtue of letting
them go, make space for the influx of revelation of the truth of You
&hellip; and redeem you.

It&rsquo;s a good news/bad news night. I love you and I look forward to
being with you all next week.

[^1]: T12.1 Crucifixion by Guilt

