---
title: Aug 12, 2006
ref: T12.2 The Fear of Redemption
alink: "/acim/text/12/chap1202/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the Internet.

Well, it&rsquo;s another good news/bad news night. And before we get
into the book, there&rsquo;s something I want to address. During this
past week someone made a comment to the effect that, &ldquo;I cannot
dare to entertain any negative thoughts.&rdquo; And the gist of the
conversation was that it was only valuable to say the
truth&mdash;&ldquo;You&rsquo;re a child of God. You&rsquo;re the
Daughter of God. You&rsquo;re the Son of God.&rdquo;

Well, if that&rsquo;s the case, then last week was my last ACIM Study Group,
because we cannot go any further if I can only say wonderful sweet
platitudes about the truth about you.

To engage in only positive thoughts is one of the most wonderful devices
the ego could have come up with to keep you from waking up, because
I&rsquo;m going to ask you, &ldquo;Who is it, or what is it, that would
be making a point of only expressing positive thoughts and never
expressing negative thoughts?&rdquo;

Well, someone who&rsquo;s in charge of himself. Someone who can decide
what&rsquo;s appropriate and what isn&rsquo;t, and what will get him
into the Kingdom of Heaven or what won&rsquo;t. And obviously,
that&rsquo;s not someone who&rsquo;s listening within. It&rsquo;s the
ego. It&rsquo;s the orphan being the best damned orphan he can
be&mdash;thinking only positive thoughts, never entertaining a negative
thought, and certainly never expressing a negative thought.

But how do you uncover and correct errors that are being practiced if
you don&rsquo;t call them for what they are? I mean, what would you
think of someone who&rsquo;s house you had come over to, and you were
visiting, and an hour before you got there it was a mess, and all of the
dirt and dust was swept under the carpet and the mess was taken and
thrown in a back room where you would never go, and in wonderful,
peaceful equanimity, they invited you in and you spent the time with
them and had this impression that they were very orderly and that they
were clean, and that they lived in a wonderful environment. If you knew
that there was dirt there that was hidden out of sight, but still there,
your reaction would be that they were not a very honest person. All they
were doing was providing an *impression* of cleanliness and order and a
valuing of beauty in their environment.

It&rsquo;s very easy to cover up dishonesty. It&rsquo;s very easy to
cover up error by never expressing a negative thought. It&rsquo;s
dangerous to your awakening because it will block it.

Now, if you&rsquo;re being dishonest, it needs to be stated. It needs to
be said. It needs to be told. Sometimes you are consciously dishonest.
But most of the time you are unconsciously dishonest. And in a way,
it&rsquo;s the unconscious dishonesty which is your worst enemy, because
if you&rsquo;re unconscious of it, you&rsquo;re not going to look for
it, you&rsquo;re not going to know that you need to dig for it,
you&rsquo;re not going to know that effort is going to have to be
brought to bear in order to uncover it, see it for what it is, and
release it because, having seen it for what it is, you recognize its
valuelessness, and you automatically abandon whatever is not of value to
you. It&rsquo;s a spontaneous thing.

So, I will proceed to say things tonight, as I have on other evenings,
that could well be interpreted to be negative, because if you&rsquo;re
doing things that don&rsquo;t work, I need to say, &ldquo;You&rsquo;re
doing things that don&rsquo;t work and here&rsquo;s what they are, and
stop it if you want to wake up. It&rsquo;s getting in your way.&rdquo;
Well, that&rsquo;s not going to be very pleasing to your ego, but I
don&rsquo;t give a shit!

There&rsquo;s another aspect here that is extremely important. And that
is, that if you think that thinking only positive thoughts and never
entertaining a negative thought is a valid principle, then, when you go
within to listen to the Holy Spirit, or when you turn to your Guide, you
are going to provide this bias to your listening. And so when it&rsquo;s
time for your Guide to say, &ldquo;you&rsquo;re being dishonest,&rdquo;
or &ldquo;you&rsquo;re doing what doesn&rsquo;t work,&rdquo; or
&ldquo;to value your ignorance is stupidity, stop it!&rdquo;
you&rsquo;re not going to let it in. You are going to block the very
guidance you need in order to wake up because of this preexisting
mindset that you are practicing. Don&rsquo;t do it. It&rsquo;s not
called unconditional listening. It&rsquo;s not called genuine listening.

Now, we&rsquo;re going to talk a little bit about ways in which
you&rsquo;re dishonest. You go through your day, and as an orphan, you
impersonate the Christ. You do impressions all day long. You do
impressions of *yourself*. And the fact that you&rsquo;re doing
impressions rather than being yourself truly, is dishonest. It&rsquo;s
something that you need to see as dishonest so that you can catch
yourself when you&rsquo;re doing it and stop it.

You have many different impressions of yourself that you do, like an
impersonator. When you&rsquo;re at work, the impression you give, the
&ldquo;you&rdquo; that you impersonate, is the employee&mdash;the good
employee or the bad employee who&rsquo;s trying better and
better&mdash;who&rsquo;s constantly making sure that he or she gives the
messages that will set well with his or her employer and make &hellip;
what? The best impression.

And then, on break, when you go to the coffee room and you sit down with
your fellow employees, boy, you bitch and moan about the boss, and now .
&hellip; what? You&rsquo;re doing a different impression of you.

Then, you come home at the end of the day, and when you&rsquo;re with
your husband or wife, you perhaps do the impression of overworked,
overtired husband or wife that needs help, that needs attention, that
needs support. And *that&rsquo;s* the impression of you that you do.

Now here&rsquo;s the clincher [chuckling]. The phone rings while
you&rsquo;re doing this impression, and the phone&rsquo;s in the other
room. And you go and you answer the phone, and it&rsquo;s your best
girlfriend or it&rsquo;s your best male friend, and all of a sudden, the
poor overworked tired person disappears. &ldquo;Hey, how are ya? How are
things goin? ya know &ldquo;How was your day? Are we still getting
together next week? And your voice has a lilt to it. It&rsquo;s like
&hellip; now where did this other person go to?

And then, the next day on your lunch break, you get together with one of
your high school girlfriends or buddies, who you grew up with, who you
know *really* well, and who you can really be yourself with, where you
can share your darkest secrets, your most serious thoughts, your
concerns or your irrelevant giddy nonsensical feelings and thoughts and
ideas, and now you&rsquo;re doing a different impression of yourself
&hellip; even when you think that you&rsquo;re with somebody you can be
utterly real with. I mean, *really utterly real* with.

My point is, that you&rsquo;re doing impersonations of a different
&ldquo;you&rdquo; all day long&mdash;multiple characters because
that&rsquo;s what serves the purpose. Always the orphan, the ego, is
doing what serves its best interests.

Now, I want you think of something else [chuckling]: You&rsquo;ve been
doing this impersonation of a downtrodden, dedicated worker, we&rsquo;ll
say, who&rsquo;s really trying hard. But the odds are against you.
Everything is going wrong. And you&rsquo;re impersonating this
particular &ldquo;you.&rdquo; And you&rsquo;re at work and you need to
go upstairs to get something from that floor and you leave and go into
the stairwell, and all the way up, [said laboriously] you&rsquo;re
taking one step after another. You are still doing the impersonation.
You&rsquo;re still believing the impersonation. You walk as though you
have no energy because everything is going wrong. *And there&rsquo;s
no-one to see you.*

But I&rsquo;ll tell you something. You do the act&mdash;whether you know
it or not, you do&mdash;you participate in the impersonation because if
someone comes around the corner, or comes down from the upstairs
unexpectedly, you&rsquo;re in character. Now, you may think that
I&rsquo;m putting you on. But if you really pay attention to yourself,
you&rsquo;ll see that&rsquo;s exactly what you&rsquo;re doing.

Now, this gets by you without you&rsquo;re recognizing it because you
believe, as the orphan you think you are, that this is the way you cope
with life. You don&rsquo;t know that there is a You who is the Christ,
who is the direct expression of God, who is what God is Being right
there where you are, which is utterly and absolutely stable, in whom
there is an absolute evenness of temperament and honesty, one who
doesn&rsquo;t have to utilize different impressions for different
occasions, one who, because there is this permanent evenness to, is
always at peace and who never feels an experience of vulnerability
against which he or she must defend himself or herself by means of
impressions.

If you don&rsquo;t know that, then it is understandable that you would
unconsciously employ techniques of dishonesty because, under the
circumstances, this is the best way to cope with life.

Now, if you are never able to express or think a negative thought, you
will not be able to look at what I just said, because the fact is that
if you look at what I&rsquo;ve just said, and if you accept it as the
truth, then you are going to have to acknowledge that you&rsquo;re being
dishonest, even though you don&rsquo;t want to be, and that you have
valued it. And you have always employed it. And because you have yet to
make the persistent consistent effort to connect with the Holy Spirit or
with your Guide, *everything* you&rsquo;re doing is being done in the
context of dishonesty, and therefore very little of what you have been
being, is real. Here&rsquo;s the bad news: That is the good news!

The bad news that is the good news is, that you can&rsquo;t count on
anything you have ever believed. You cannot count on or value the
techniques you have learned in order to cope with life. There is very
little of value that you can draw upon meaningfully. That&rsquo;s bad
news. But it&rsquo;s good news if you will believe it, because if you
will believe it, you will be willing to try something else. And the
willingness to try something else is where you break loose of the
control ignorance has had over you&mdash;the control that your dream has
had over you.

The good news is that the death of your concept of yourself is the birth
of what you really Are in your mind. And so you must be willing to look
at so-called negative thoughts. You must be willing to look at hard
facts and not cringe in the face of them. Stand there and acknowledge
them and accept them, because the moment you stop justifying yourself,
and justifying all of the impersonations or impressions you have engaged
in, and the moment you stop justifying the reason why you&rsquo;ve had
to do that, because *none* of it is valuable, at that moment you will
have come to a place of honesty within yourself.

And at that point you will be very clear that you must reach outside of
your best concepts and your best reasonings and your best theories, and
the best damn mutual agreements that all of you orphans have pulled
together and created for yourself as a menu for successful life.

The bad news is that you have been behaving as though you&rsquo;re out
of your mind&mdash;your right Mind. You have been behaving as though you
are insane. Is that a negative thought? It all depends on whether or
not that threatens your security or your sense of well-being.

It doesn&rsquo;t have to threaten you at all if you truly believe that
there is a God and if you&rsquo;re willing to believe what the *Course*
says, and what I&rsquo;ve been saying. That in spite of the concept, the
image you have made of yourself, you are something entirely different.
You are right now, what God is Presencing Himself as, right there where
you are.

Now, I want to cover a point that there was some unclarity about from
last week. It&rsquo;s two paragraphs above where we&rsquo;re beginning
tonight. The last three sentences:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You are AFRAID of redemption, and you believe it will kill you. Make no
mistake about the depth of your fear. For you believe that, in the
presence of truth, you will turn on yourself and destroy yourself.[^1]
</div>

I pointed out that there&rsquo;s a built-in safeguard as you wake up, as
you have a shift of perception. And the best way I can express it is,
that it&rsquo;s like the example of a werewolf. One who is a werewolf is
normally an everyday human being like all of you, but when the full moon
comes out, an episode begins, and that normal one turns into a wolf-like
hairy creature who spends the night as a predator, killing.

Now, the werewolf is like the orphan. And the orphan believes that in
the presence of truth, he will turn on himself and destroy himself
&hellip; and I&rsquo;m going to add, if he could find himself. But the
normal human being that he is, at times other than the full moon, is
nowhere to be found. He can&rsquo;t find the real &ldquo;him&rdquo; to
kill. But if he could find him, he would. But at the end of the night
when the moon sets, and he gets closer and closer to being the real him
again, the werewolf is disappearing, so that at the point that the real
one that he is, is fully present, there is nothing left of the werewolf
that would attack him.

It&rsquo;s that simple. You are afraid that the closer you get to the
truth of you, the closer you get, through transformation of your mind,
to the experience of the Christ that you are, that you will turn on It
and rend It, except that as that happens, the orphan who values not
knowing who his Father is, and not knowing Who he really Is, is
disappearing. So that at the point that the Christ of you stands forth,
perfectly clear, there is no orphan any more present to accomplish
anything or do anything.

I hope that clarifies it for you.

Let&rsquo;s go into the Book.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*The Fear of Redemption*

You may wonder why it is so crucial that you look upon your hatred and
realize its full extent.
</div>

Now, you couldn&rsquo;t possibly do this if you can&rsquo;t dare to think a single
negative thought.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You may wonder why it is so crucial that you look upon your hatred and
realize its full extent. You may also think that it would be easy
enough for the Holy Spirit to show it to you and dispel it WITHOUT the
need for you to raise it to awareness yourself.
</div>

Believe me, if you haven&rsquo;t already asked the Holy Spirit to take it away
from you without your having to be aware of it, you will arrive at a
point where you ask that. But it can&rsquo;t be done.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You may also think that it would be easy enough for the Holy Spirit to
show it to you and dispel it &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; there&rsquo;s that word again, &ldquo;dispel&rdquo; &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; dispel it WITHOUT the need for you to raise it to awareness
yourself.
</div>

You gotta go back and lift the carpet up and get your broom and get that
dirt out yourself. The dirt you put there, you gotta take out.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet there is one more complication which you have interposed between
yourself and the Atonement which you do not yet realize.
</div>

And you will never realize it if you&rsquo;re not willing to look at, or
consider negative thoughts.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
We have said that no-one will countenance fear if he RECOGNIZES it. Yet
in your disordered state, you are NOT afraid of fear. You do not like
it, but it is not your desire to attack which REALLY frightens you. You
are not seriously disturbed by your hostility. You keep it hidden
because you are MORE afraid of what it covers.
</div>

But before we go onto the more that it covers, let&rsquo;s go back here:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You are not seriously disturbed by your hostility.
</div>

Man, you&rsquo;ve got to be willing to take a look at the degree to which you
do express hostility in one form or another every day. And get
satisfaction from it!

I don&rsquo;t care how nice a person you think you are. And I don&rsquo;t care how
much you hold that in the forefront of your awareness. The fact is,
that the hand behind your back that&rsquo;s out of sight, engages in
unkindness multiple times during the day. And the saintly one you think
you are, doesn&rsquo;t even notice. Dishonesty again.

And you must begin to be honest with yourself. You are all very ready
to be hostile&mdash;even through jokes, through humor. That&rsquo;s a really good
way to disguise hostility &hellip; is to make people laugh. Hm-m, but it
happens every day. I won&rsquo;t say especially on the &ldquo;Tonight Show.&rdquo;
[chuckle] But, it happens there every night.

You are very ready to be irritated by this, that or the other thing.
You have a pre disposition to be irritated, ever-present. You may not
let it out very often, but it&rsquo;s there. Why is it there? Because
you don&rsquo;t believe you are the Christ. You do not believe that you
are the very Presence of God, Himself. You think you are an orphan
coping, who must use every means at its disposal to defend itself
against the polarities of life that are constantly eating away at you.

And you think that your expression of hostility is an expression of
strength. And that&rsquo;s why you value it. And that&rsquo;s why you
don&rsquo;t think too badly of it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You do not like it, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; fear &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; but it is not your desire to attack &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; or to be hostile &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; which REALLY frightens you. You are not seriously disturbed by
your hostility. You keep it hidden because you are MORE afraid of what
it covers.

You could look even upon the ego&rsquo;s darkest cornerstone without fear if
you did not believe that, WITHOUT the ego, you would find within
yourself something you fear even more.
</div>

See, you would be willing to look at the ego and find out that it
doesn&rsquo;t exist, that it isn&rsquo;t real, that it&rsquo;s a
fabrication of the imagination. You would be willing even to look at
that, if you didn&rsquo;t know that in doing that &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you would find within yourself something you fear even more.

You are NOT afraid of crucifixion.
</div>

Which is what we were talking about last week.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your real terror is of REDEMPTION.
</div>

Sounds crazy doesn&rsquo;t it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Under the ego&rsquo;s dark foundation &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in other words, behind the ego, what&rsquo;s being covered up
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Under the ego&rsquo;s dark foundation is the memory of God, and it is of THIS
that you are really afraid. For this memory would INSTANTLY restore you
to your proper place, &hellip;
</div>

You would instantly remember that you are your Father&rsquo;s Son or
Daughter the moment you acknowledge the existence of a Father. The
moment you acknowledge the existence of a Source, that means you are not
the source of yourself. It brings you back into the clarity of a
relationship with your Source that makes you something far different
from the orphan you have believed you are.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; this memory would INSTANTLY restore you to your proper place, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your right Mind, your clarity &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and it is this place you have sought to LEAVE.
</div>

How? By saying, &ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;d rather see it my way. Father,
I&rsquo;d rather do it myself. Father, I would rather give the
definitions to everything myself. I&rsquo;m going to do that for awhile.
See you later, Father.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your fear of attack &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and I want you not to read this as though something else is
attacking you. Your fear of *engaging* in attack is what I want you to
consider &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your fear of attack is nothing compared to your fear of love.
</div>

Your fear of engaging in attack is nothing compared to your fear of
engaging with love.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You would be willing to look even upon your savage wish to kill God&rsquo;s
Son &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning, keeping your true status out of sight &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; if you did not believe that it SAVES you from love. For this wish
CAUSED the separation. You have protected it because you do not WANT the
separation healed, and you realize that, by REMOVING the dark cloud that
obscures it, your love for your Father would impel you to answer his
call and leap into Heaven.
</div>

You would *catapult* yourself back into your right Mind if you would let
the memory register with you.

Now I&rsquo;m going to back up because here&rsquo;s one of the negative thoughts:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you do not WANT the separation healed, &hellip;
</div>

&ldquo;What do you mean I don&rsquo;t want the separation healed?
I&rsquo;m studying the Course because I want to wake up. I&rsquo;ve been
a student of truth for 20 years because I want to wake up. What do you
mean &hellip; ?&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; You do not want the separation to be healed, &hellip;
</div>

What I mean is, that you don&rsquo;t want to lose the right to be the
determiner of your life, because you think that&rsquo;s your purpose.
You think that&rsquo;s your reason for being. And if you&rsquo;re going
to lose that, you don&rsquo;t want the separation to be healed.
It&rsquo;s that simple, and it&rsquo;s that black and white. It&rsquo;s
that stark. Because it&rsquo;s that stark, it&rsquo;s that
simple&mdash;nothing complicated or complex about it at all.

Continuing &hellip;  

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You believe that attack is salvation to prevent you from THIS.
</div>

Attack is an exercise of power, isn&rsquo;t it? It&rsquo;s you standing up for your
rights over and against somebody who&rsquo;s imposing theirs upon you. It&rsquo;s
your salvation. It&rsquo;s your power. It&rsquo;s your opportunity to exercise
authority.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You believe that attack is salvation to prevent you from THIS.
</div>

&hellip; [laughing] from being suddenly catapulted into Heaven.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For still deeper than the ego&rsquo;s foundation, and much stronger than it
will ever be, is &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what? &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; your intense and burning love of God, and His for you. This is
what you REALLY want to hide.
</div>

And you know what? This intense and burning love of God and His for you,
is the evenness of your being, the invulnerability of your being, that I
spoke of earlier, that you may not have been aware was there. And your
ignorance of it was what allowed you to believe that the using of
multiple impressions and being dishonest in various forms throughout
your day was justified because that&rsquo;s what it took to cope with
life as you&rsquo;ve defined it, or as other orphans have defined it for
you. You see?

That evenness in you is your intense and burning love of God and His for
you, that is there in you right now. And this is what you really want to
hide.

This is the bad news that is the good news. You&rsquo;re wanting to hide
your salvation. Oh dear, fifty lashes for you. You want to hide your
salvation. *That means that your salvation is at hand.* That means that
your salvation is presently the truth about you&mdash;actively the truth
about you. And the experience of it is available to you the moment you
stop denying it, the moment you stop objecting to the realization of it
because you want to hold onto to your authority and don&rsquo;t want to
break the separation.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and here&rsquo;s the word, &ldquo;honesty&rdquo; &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In honesty, is it not harder for you to say &ldquo;I love&rdquo; than
&ldquo;I hate&rdquo;? You associate love with weakness &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; as we discussed last week &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You associate love with weakness and hatred with strength, and your own
REAL power &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; love &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; seems to you as your real WEAKNESS.
</div>

Remember I said nobody likes a good guy? And loving people are wimps
who do not have what it takes to stand up to the harshness of life and
take command in the face of threat and harm?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You associate love with weakness and hatred with strength, and your own
REAL power seems to you as your real WEAKNESS. For you could not
control your joyous response to the call of love &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; this sudden catapulting of you back into your right Mind, for you
could not control the happening of it&mdash;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; your joyous response to the call of love if you heard it, and the
whole world you think you control WOULD vanish.
</div>

Would vanish. It&rsquo;s not at all desirable or delectable to the
orphan to have to abandon control over its world. Because whatever
degree of success it has had, is what has given it apparent valid
identity. And it doesn&rsquo;t want to lose the identity it has worked
so hard to establish.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy spirit, then, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that which is nothing more than your Right Mind &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; seems to be attacking your fortress, for you would shut out God,
and He does not will to BE excluded.
</div>

So, have fun trying to exclude Him. If He doesn&rsquo;t will to be excluded,
you&rsquo;re pissing in the wind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have built your whole insane belief system because you think you
would be helpless in God&rsquo;s Presence, and you would SAVE yourself from
His Love because you think It would crush you into nothingness.
</div>

Well, if you don&rsquo;t believe me, believe Paul. When it comes to the
point where you&rsquo;re asked to let the Holy Spirit respond to
everything, or to let me respond to everything, or to let your Guide,
who is fully Christed, respond to everything, the question will arise in
your mind, &ldquo;Well, what about me? I mean, you&rsquo;re just gonna
flush me down the toilet??&rdquo;

And you&rsquo;re not going to be happy at the prospect of not being able
to introduce any of your uniqueness into the mix. And you will think
that if you do, it will crush you into nothingness.

When I say to Paul, &ldquo;Let me respond to everything.&rdquo; The
picture that comes to his mind is a poster he once saw of a tail of a
whale above the water as the whale dove, an exquisite picture. And
underneath the picture, the caption was: &ldquo;Extinction is
Forever.&rdquo; Paul feels as though, if he lets me respond to
everything, he will become extinct.

You, when you arrive at a point of willingness to let your Guide respond
some of the time, like he [Paul] let&rsquo;s me respond some of the time
&hellip; when you arrive at that point, your Guide is going to push for
less and less of you, the orphan.

You&rsquo;re not going to like it. And you&rsquo;re going to feel as
though it will cause the you that you think you are, the only
&ldquo;you&rdquo; you&rsquo;ve ever known, to become extinct. It&rsquo;s
that black and white. Paul ignores the fact that even right now, when
I&rsquo;m speaking, and he&rsquo;s letting me respond, he is fully
present. He hasn&rsquo;t gone anywhere. But his reason for being is not
to make an impression. He&rsquo;s not impersonating anything. He&rsquo;s
not expressing a right to be a little bit of himself &hellip; at least
the self he thought he was.

His experience of being, right now, is very different from his
experience of being when he&rsquo;s on his own&mdash;able to be his cute
little self, an occasional smart-ass (with good connotations), a
pleasant fellow to be around, and one with good morals, and so on. This
is one of the impressions he does.

But right now he&rsquo;s not doing an impression at all. And so he
doesn&rsquo;t recognize himself in it&ndash;none of the triggers that say,
&ldquo;Yeah man, you&rsquo;re doin&rsquo; it, you&rsquo;re doin&rsquo;
it, you&rsquo;re doin&rsquo; it! None of the triggers are happening and
yet he&rsquo;s being it. And the reason for yielding to the Holy Spirit,
the reason for yielding to the Christ, is so that you have the
opportunity to experience what it feels like to be yourself, truly. And
initially, it doesn&rsquo;t feel familiar. You see?

So, that&rsquo;s what it means.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have built your whole insane belief system because you think you
would be helpless in God&rsquo;s Presence, and you would SAVE yourself from
His Love because you think It would crush you into nothingness. You are
afraid It would sweep you away from yourself, and make you little.
</div>

And Paul&mdash;the orphan Paul&mdash;is convinced that it would not only
make him little, it would make him extinct forever. I mean, if the
extinction was only going to be temporary, that would be tolerable.
Okay, maybe he&rsquo;d be willing to try it. But if the extinction is
forever&mdash;meaning that never again would he be inclined to employ
the orphan mindset, never ever again&mdash;now that is like, permanent.
[laughter] Unalterable. Permanent change.

That threshold, and the willingness it takes to move over that threshold
is something each one of you has standing, or waiting for you, right in
front of you. So you see, why waste another moment doing impressions of
you [laughter] tonight or tomorrow, or the next day?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You are afraid It &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; His Love &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
 &hellip; would sweep you away from yourself, and make you little. For you
believe that magnitude lies in defiance, and that attack is grandeur.
</div>

Now wait &hellip; I want you not to think of this in grandiose terms.
Just listen to the news every night, and you&rsquo;ll see that the
popular belief is that magnitude lies in defiance and that attack is
grandeur.

The orphan is a war monger. Piece of bad news: You, if you are choosing
not to be joined, are war mongers. In one way or another, you delight in
conflict and it gives you a feeling of invigoration. At the least it
doesn&rsquo;t bother you enough to stop.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You think you have made a world &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; &ldquo;made up&rdquo; by means of your definitions and mutual agreements with
other orphans&rsquo; definitions.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You think you have made a world which God would destroy; and by loving
Him, which you DO, you would throw this world away, which you WOULD.
</div>

It isn&rsquo;t so much that God would take it away from you, [laughing]
but if you let yourself be moved by the intense and burning Love of God
that&rsquo;s in you, you would throw this world that you&rsquo;ve made
up away.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Therefore, you have used the world to COVER your love, and the deeper
you go into the blackness of the ego&rsquo;s foundation, the closer you come
to the Love that is hidden there. AND IT IS THIS THAT FRIGHTENS YOU.
</div>

How much more negative a thought could be expressed?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the deeper you go into the blackness of the ego&rsquo;s foundation, the
closer you come to the Love that is hidden there. AND IT IS THIS THAT
FRIGHTENS YOU.
</div>

Again, you must not be afraid to look at negative thoughts.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the deeper you go into the blackness &hellip;

&hellip; the closer you come to the Love that is hidden there.
</div>

Don&rsquo;t avoid the dirt under the carpet.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You can accept insanity because you made it, but you cannot accept love
because you did NOT.
</div>

Pretty black and white.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You would rather be slaves of the crucifixion than Sons of God in
redemption. For your INDIVIDUAL death &hellip;
</div>

[Chuckling] Extinction is forever for the ego. Extinction is forever
for the orphan mindset.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; your INDIVIDUAL death is more valued than your living oneness, and
what is GIVEN you is not so dear as what YOU made.
</div>

Not a nice thought, but one you must look at.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You are more afraid of God than of the ego, and love cannot enter where
it is not welcome. But hatred can, for it enters of ITS will and cares
not for yours.
</div>

Now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The reason you must look upon your delusions and not keep them hidden is
that they do NOT rest on their own foundation. In concealment &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you know, in the hazy, misty darkness, &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; they appear to do so, and thus, they seem to be self-sustained.
This is the fundamental illusion on which they rest. For BENEATH them,
and concealed as long as THEY are hidden, is the loving mind that
THOUGHT it made them in anger.
</div>

Listen again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For BENEATH them, and concealed as long as THEY are hidden, is &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Christ that you Are, that you never stopped being&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is the loving mind that THOUGHT &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; imagined &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; it made them in anger. And the pain in this mind is so apparent,
when it is uncovered, that its need of healing cannot BE denied.
</div>

Here&rsquo;s another not-so-nice thought:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Not all the tricks and games you offer it &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; [said facetiously] You slippery dishonest ones that you are &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Not all the tricks and games you offer it can heal it, for here is the
REAL crucifixion of God&rsquo;s Son.

And yet he is NOT crucified. Here is both his pain AND his healing, &hellip;
</div>

Here is the bad news that is the good news.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Here is both his pain AND his healing, for the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s vision is
merciful and His remedy is quick. Do not HIDE suffering from His sight,
but bring it gladly to Him.
</div>

Well, what kind of suffering? Well, let&rsquo;s just say for starters, the
suffering you might find yourself feeling when you&rsquo;re willing to
consider honestly that you are always being dishonest, and that you
don&rsquo;t know what anything really means. And that you really don&rsquo;t have a
sound basis for doing anything constructive toward your awakening all by
yourself.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Do not HIDE suffering from His site, but bring it gladly to Him. Lay
before His eternal sanity &hellip;
</div>

And mind you, we&rsquo;re talking about the Holy Spirit&mdash;that which
is nothing more than your Right Mind. So when you are bringing these
things to the Holy Spirit, you are bringing the attention of your
distorted sense of self to that which is nothing more than your Right
Mind, where adjustment can occur, where redemption can occur.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Do not HIDE suffering from His sight, but bring it gladly to Him. Lay
before His eternal sanity &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; which is your eternal sanity &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; ALL your hurt, and LET Him heal you.
</div>

Invite it in. Don&rsquo;t stand there arrogantly complaining about the
injustice of what&rsquo;s happening.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Do not leave any spot of pain hidden from His light, and search your
minds carefully for any &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; thoughts &hellip;
</div>

Negative thoughts. You see? If you don&rsquo;t dare to think a single
negative thought, you will not be able to do this. And you will remain
in a comfortable dream state of holiness and impractical meaningless
cloud-nine religiosity.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Do not leave any spot of pain hidden from His light, and search your
minds carefully for any thoughts which you may fear to uncover. For He
will heal every little thought which you have kept to hurt you, and
cleanse it of its littleness, restoring it to the magnitude of God.
</div>

This is the good news.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Beneath all your grandiosity, which you hold so dear, is your real call
for help. For you call for love to your Father as your Father calls you
to Himself. In that place which you have hidden &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in the orphanage &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you will only to unite with the Father, in loving remembrance of
Him.
</div>

See? As long as being an orphan is so god-damned important to you, you
are not going to acknowledge there is a God that is your Father. There
will be no remembrance of Him and His Meaning to you as long as you are
valuing the orphanage experience.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In that place which you have hidden you will only to unite with the
Father, in loving remembrance of Him. You will find this place of truth
as you see it in your brothers, for though they may deceive themselves,
like you they long for the grandeur that is in them. And perceiving it
you will welcome it, and it will be YOURS. For grandeur is the RIGHT of
God&rsquo;s Son, and NO illusions can satisfy him or save him from what he IS.
Only his love is real, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that&rsquo;s &ldquo;his&rdquo; with a small &ldquo;h&rdquo; meaning yours.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Only his love is real, and he will be content ONLY with his reality.

Save him from his illusions that you may accept the magnitude of your
Father in peace and joy.
</div>

Now, obviously this is good news. But its talking about actually *doing
it*. And that&rsquo;s the bad news.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Save him from his illusions that you may accept the magnitude of your
Father in peace and joy. But exempt no-one from your love, &hellip;
</div>

See? Don&rsquo;t save a little bit of right to be hateful just here or there.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; exempt no-one from your love, or you will be hiding a dark place
in your mind where the Holy Spirit is not welcome.
</div>

Meaning, where your right Mind is not welcome. And if it&rsquo;s not welcome,
you cannot experience your Sanity&mdash;your whole mindedness.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And you will exempt YOURSELF from His healing power, for by not offering
total love you will not be healed completely. Healing must be as
complete as fear, for love cannot enter where there is one spot of fear
to mar its welcome.
</div>

What&rsquo;s the good news? The good news is that you aren&rsquo;t what you thought
you were. The good news is that you aren&rsquo;t what you think you are. And
separate and apart from whatever you think you are, you exist in an
eternally stable, even environment or state of being, and it&rsquo;s your
Birthright to be experiencing everything from there. And it is present
right now, in you, As you.

Stop wanting to be small. Stop wanting to be small-minded&mdash;picky,
irritable, ready to jump at a moment&rsquo;s notice to disqualify
another, or stand arrogantly above another and minimize his
value&mdash;because you&rsquo;re being as bad as him, because
you&rsquo;re being as much of an orphan as him, and you&rsquo;re
believing your perception of yourself as much as he is. And that
won&rsquo;t get you out of it and it won&rsquo;t get him out of it.

And someone has to change. And you know what? It&rsquo;s you.
[addressing everyone] psssst &hellip; and you &hellip; and you &hellip;
and you &hellip; and you &hellip; and you &hellip; and every single one
of you &hellip; and Paul.

I&rsquo;m going to say this for Paul and everyone: Try extinction!

That&rsquo;s the good news.

I love you and I don&rsquo;t want any of you to suffer a moment longer,
ignorant of the experience of what you truly Are, an experience that is
available to you at this moment. And there&rsquo;s nothing you can do to
prepare for it.

Let go of the preparation. Let go of the use of impressions. Let love
in. Remember your Father.

I look forward to being with you all next week. And I look forward to
your all having an interesting week.

[^1]: T12.2 The Fear of Redemption

