---
title: Aug 20, 2006
ref: T12.2 The Fear of Redemption
alink: "/acim/text/12/chap1202/"
---

Good evening and welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
internet.

Well, did you have an interesting week? I&rsquo;m going to give you a
little practice for this coming week just to extend the learning.

As you go through this week, whenever it occurs to you as you go through
your day, ask yourself the question, &ldquo;Which me am I doing an
impression of now? And be really honest with yourselves in answering
that question.

I am going to tell you, that unless you&rsquo;re joined with your guide
or the Holy Spirit at that moment, you are doing an impression. And the
whole point of this practice is to help you realize that fact. Not so
you can see how poorly you&rsquo;re doing or how much you&rsquo;re
failing at the only thing that counts, but so that you can begin to have
an inner experience of the ease with which you&rsquo;re able to be
dishonest.

Now, some hard things have been said last week and already this week.
To realize that you&rsquo;re being dishonest is not the goal. If it were
the goal, you would just have to sit with it and suffer with it. The
point is, that I am explaining to you that you all have an alternative
to it&mdash;one which you haven&rsquo;t been accessing and employing.

If you can dare to honestly look at yourself many times during the day,
and identify the impression that you&rsquo;re employing at that moment,
you&rsquo;re bringing something into play. You&rsquo;re bringing in
something in addition to the self that you&rsquo;re doing the impression
of. You&rsquo;re bringing in an observer&mdash;you. And if you can look
at yourself and see the impression that you&rsquo;re engaging in, it
will become obvious to you, experientially, that you are something
different from the impression you&rsquo;re giving.

It means that the impression that you&rsquo;re giving is not you, but a
ploy you are using to accomplish something. The moment you can see that
there is a difference between the you who is observing you doing an
impression, you have a different place to be from. You can choose to
continue to be from the place of the observer. And this little practice
helps break the bondage you have to constantly employing impressions,
impersonations and even believing them yourself.

The whole point of this is, to give you a means to escape from, to set
aside a practice you have been engaged in and you didn&rsquo;t even know
it was something you were practicing. You didn&rsquo;t know it was
something you were practicing because you didn&rsquo;t know you had an
alternative.  Awakening to your Christhood is a matter of becoming free
from the bondage of ignorance that you have been under. It&rsquo;s a
matter of actually changing, actually discovering yourself as something
beyond your concept of yourself.

The Course is not here, truth is not here to help make the human
condition more comfortable. &ldquo;Oh, you wouldn&rsquo;t believe it,
when I got hold of the Course, it was incredible! And it has transformed
my life.  Everything is going smoothly now.&rdquo; I&rsquo;m not being
facetious here, there are people who have this experience. &ldquo;My
life turned around and I owe it all to the Course. I owe it all to what
I found in the Course.&rdquo;

But you know what? What they&rsquo;re saying is, that life between birth
and death has become more enjoyable&mdash;less stress, more peace. In
effect, it&rsquo;s like saying, &ldquo;I am being able to enjoy this
ride which ultimately will end in my death. I fully expect to be healthy
right up until the moment I kick the bucket. If everything continues as
it is right now, I anticipate being free of illness and suffering. And
when the time comes, I&rsquo;ll go.&rdquo;

What&rsquo;s wrong with this picture? And what&rsquo;s happened to you?

You&rsquo;ve begun to do an impression of a student of the Course
who&rsquo;s life is wonderful without having been lifted out of the
realm of birth and death&mdash;of real transformation, of getting off
the wheel of history, the cycles of birth and death, and birth and
death, and on and on. I&rsquo;ve mentioned before that there&rsquo;s a
saying that &ldquo;Life is a terminal illness.&rdquo;

You know what? This Course and the truth is not here to make your
terminal illness comfortable&mdash;tolerable. It&rsquo;s here for
healing! It&rsquo;s here to actually lift you out of, or remove you from
all evidences of birth and death, to bring you into the evidences of
Eternal Life. To bring you into the evidence of the Kingdom of Heaven,
here and now where you are. It&rsquo;s not to make you happy, contented
orphans still ignorant that you have a Father from Whom you have an
inheritance. Because your Father is what gives you Identity.

Now, we need to talk a little bit more about impersonations and
impressions to further trigger clarifications. You don&rsquo;t realize
just how impactful and meaningful impressions are to you. They fill your
everyday, not just the impressions you&rsquo;re engaged in performing
but, we&rsquo;ll say, if you&rsquo;re in a gathering of
people&mdash;you&rsquo;ve been invited to a party and you and a friend
go together. And at the party there are people that neither of you have
ever met before and some of them are interesting and some of them
aren&rsquo;t and so on.

Afterwards you leave and you start talking about things that happened at
the party and one of you says, &ldquo;Well, you know that Mary Jo, I
can&rsquo;t think of her last name, but &hellip; &rdquo; &ldquo;Oh Yeah,
I know who you&rsquo;re talking about.&rdquo; &ldquo;What&rsquo;d ya
think about her?&rdquo; &ldquo;Well, she reminds me a lot of
John&rsquo;s cousin.&rdquo;

Hm-m, &ldquo;She reminds me a lot of John&rsquo;s cousin.&rdquo; You
see, the response isn&rsquo;t about her. It&rsquo;s about the impression
you got from her. And the impression you got from her, which was your
impression, caused you to recognize a similarity between her and someone
else. And you don&rsquo;t even stop for a moment to realize that the
someone else that you saw a comparison between, was not someone else you
actually saw and actually connected with. But you&rsquo;re talking about
your impression of the other lady.

&ldquo;The impression I got from her was that she was like the
impression I got from someone else.&rdquo; And right there you&rsquo;re
saying, &ldquo;You know what, I never really connected with either one
of them.&rdquo;

Now, you rely on this. Why do you think you engage in doing impressions?
Because you know everybody is only looking at impressions and
no-one&rsquo;s really seeing you. Just like you&rsquo;re not really
seeing anyone else.

I talked last week about the employee&mdash;the burdened employee, where
things aren&rsquo;t going well, and so on, and he&rsquo;s doing an
impression of someone downtrodden. And he goes into the stairwell and
starts up the stairs and he plods up the stairs because he&rsquo;s so
downtrodden. He continues the impression whether anyone is there to
watch him or not.

Now, you might&rsquo;ve listened to that and thought, &ldquo;That really
is a little bit far-out.&rdquo; But let&rsquo;s bring it into
practicality here&mdash;everyday practicality.  All of you have heard of
body language haven&rsquo;t you. All of you use body language all day
long. And you watch and pay attention to the body language of other
people. Even if they&rsquo;re not talking, you observe to get a feeling
for where they&rsquo;re coming from&mdash;what&rsquo;s going on with
them. Are they happy today or are they not happy today? Are they angry?
Are they uptight? Whatever. You rely on body language for a major part
of your communication with each other. Body language is the means of
conveying an impression, an impersonation.

You&rsquo;ve all heard the example of there being an accident and a
number of bystanders. And the police arrive and they talk to all the
different bystanders and each one gives a little bit different story.
Why?  Because they&rsquo;re giving their best impression of what
happened. Why?  Why all of this impressionism being practiced? Because
none of you are taking the time to be present enough with someone else
or events that are happening, to actually let the actuality of it
register with you.  You rely upon never really knowing the facts. You
rely on, it&rsquo;s not the anonymity, but the cushioning
effect&mdash;the protective effect of never really knowing the truth,
because if you never really know the truth Itself, you can&rsquo;t be
held accountable for anything. No-one will ever rely on you a hundred
percent for anything.  It keeps a distance. It keeps things fuzzy when
all you&rsquo;re doing is living your life based on impressions.
Impressions you&rsquo;re giving. Impressions you&rsquo;re getting.

There is a different experience awaiting you. It&rsquo;s the experience
of Real connection, direct connection, where, when you look at someone,
you don&rsquo;t have to assume anything, you don&rsquo;t have to rely
upon an impression you&rsquo;re getting based upon the impressions they
are practicing. They may appear to be angry. But you have the capacity
to have a direct connection, I&rsquo;m going to say, Mind to
Mind&mdash;because there are no private thoughts and we&rsquo;ve
discussed this before. But the fact that there are no private thoughts
means that you have direct access to actuality where impressions become
meaningless.

And part of waking up means that you&rsquo;re going to abandon
impressions, the ones you give and the ones you rely upon from others.

In a way, all of you are giving each other a snow job all day long by
means of constantly communicating only by means of impressions. And
everyone else is satisfied with that because they&rsquo;re not called
upon to correct anything. They&rsquo;re not called upon to notice: This
is out of line, this is out of order, this is a situation where
correction is called for, this is a situation where some negative
thought needs to be expressed like, &ldquo;Stop what you&rsquo;re doing,
it isn&rsquo;t working for you.&rdquo; Or, &ldquo;Stop what you&rsquo;re
doing because it&rsquo;s hurting. Stop what you&rsquo;re doing because
you&rsquo;re not being nice.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Well, you know, I saw her and I had the impression that she
wasn&rsquo;t somebody I wanted to be around and so I left.&rdquo; So, no
connection, no opportunity for correction, no opportunity for healing,
no opportunity for sharing clarity of vision that would lift you and the
other one out of the realm of impressionism. You see?

Healing can&rsquo;t occur as long as everyone is functioning in this
nebulousness of impressionism. The Course, the function of the truth
that you will find in there, if you&rsquo;ll dare to look at the
not-so-nice things it says, is to unrut you, to shake you out of habits
that you didn&rsquo;t know were habits because you thought that was just
the way life was.

So, something else you can do during this coming week, beside asking
yourself a number of times a day, &ldquo;Who is the me I&rsquo;m doing
an impression of now?&rdquo; is, when you are confronted by another, to
not just off the top of your head make an assessment of them, but take a
moment&mdash;you don&rsquo;t have to do a profound study&mdash;but take
a moment to have the intent to connect with them at a level behind
whatever impression they&rsquo;re giving at that moment. Like,
&ldquo;What&rsquo;s really going on with them? Well, he&rsquo;s acting
like a real bastard, he&rsquo;s, ya know, just suddenly gone off the
deep end.&rdquo; That&rsquo;s the impression.

But a moment of quietness in you and the willingness to see beyond that
impression, might uncover to you that that one is feeling obligated to
be more than he&rsquo;s being. In other words, he&rsquo;s not doing well
enough, or she&rsquo;s not doing well enough, or he or she is not doing
enough, period.  And the behavior is reflecting a feeling of impotence.
But the impotence is a result of the mutually agreed upon definitions of
all the orphans that say, &ldquo;If you&rsquo;re going to be something,
you&rsquo;ve got to do something. You&rsquo;ve got to be doing something
important and well. You&rsquo;ve got to be doing something outstanding
because that&rsquo;s the way you prove your competence.&rdquo;

And if that one is feeling no way to actually accomplish that, it is
very frustrating. The behavior that&rsquo;s coming out is not what needs
to be addressed. And the clarity that you experience by being willing to
stop a moment and abandon your snap judgments and to listen, what that
will uncover, will be the fact that what needs to be addressed is, the
feeling of incompetence and the belief that competence comes from
doing&mdash;instead of competence and wholeness being inseparable from
Being, where nothing more needs to be done because Being itself is
Whole.

The mutual agreements of orphans would say, &ldquo;He is incompetent and
we can help him become competent. And we&rsquo;ll tell him all the right
things to do and we&rsquo;ll tell him how to do them.&rdquo;

But you know what? The Christ, or the Holy Spirit comes and says,
&ldquo;Stop everything you&rsquo;re doing and take a deep breath.
Because all of your Meaning, all of the fullness of the gift of you that
you&rsquo;re here to be the expression of, is already with you. And you
don&rsquo;t have to try harder. All you need to do, is to relax so that
it can come through, because you&rsquo;re not distracted by all of the
plans, all of the theories, all of the protocols that you can abide by
that will get you ultimately where you want to go off in the future.

You also have the capacity to be with events, even if it&rsquo;s a robin
that lands in your yard and spends a little while, while you&rsquo;re
watching, doing what it does. You have the capacity to be present with
these things. Not so that you can gather from the impression you get
that&rsquo;s caused by its behavior, something true about it. You have a
means to ask, &ldquo;What is God being here? What is really going on
here aside from the impressions that its behavior provides me
with?&rdquo;

You have a means for direct connection. If you will dare to look at what
I&rsquo;ve said and look at yourselves and see the degree to which you
operate on the basis of impressions and if you will realize from that
experience that in all of it you&rsquo;re never really connecting with
the one you&rsquo;re having impressions about, it will be easier for you
to say, &ldquo;I want to have a more meaningful experience. I want to
have an experience of actual connection. To hell with basing everything
on impressions anymore. For I&rsquo;m never seeing who they really are,
and the ones I&rsquo;m inclined to compare them with, I never saw
either.  And we&rsquo;ve just been like little balls rolling around in a
humongous pinball machine that has felt pads around each of the
boingers&mdash;you know the things that go boing &hellip; boing &hellip;
boing &hellip; as the ball gets bounced around.&rdquo;

And you all bounce off of impressions which are softnesses,
indefiniteness&rsquo;s. You see what I mean? And you live this life of
softly bouncing off of nothing in particular, nothing specific, you see.
Because you never connect with specifically what&rsquo;s there and
specifically who&rsquo;s there. And so you&rsquo;ve been missing out on
something.  But since everyone has always been doing it, it hasn&rsquo;t
occurred to you that there might be a different way to do things.

That&rsquo;s the way you have been bound by ignorance.  And that&rsquo;s
one of the ways in which you have been unconsciously dishonest. And it
is something for you to become free of.

When someone is in front of you, you are provided with an opportunity to
have a Real experience. Remember that. Every encounter is a potential
threshold of Awakening. It truly is. Don&rsquo;t value impressions.
It&rsquo;s like a soft gauze between you and everything. It assures
isolation. It assures loneliness. It assures lack of connection. Pretty
sad. And it&rsquo;s not your Birthright!

Let&rsquo;s go into the Book.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You who prefer specialness to sanity could not obtain it in your right
minds.
</div>

That&rsquo;s interesting: The use of the word, &ldquo;specialness&rdquo;
with reference to sanity, because specialness is an excellent definition
of insanity.  &ldquo;I&rsquo;m special. I&rsquo;m an orphan. And I love
it &hellip; I love it &hellip; I love it &hellip; I love it! I get to
decide what everything is and even though life is scary as hell, I even
get to figure out how to cope with it successfully. I mean, infinity is
the possibility for me. You see.

If it could say this, it would say, &ldquo;Those who are not orphans
don&rsquo;t have this freedom, they are not free to be whatever they
want to be and do whatever they want to do. And so, I&rsquo;m very happy
in my isolation because, wow, the potentials for success are just
unlimited.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You who prefer specialness to sanity could not obtain it in your right
minds. You were at peace until you asked for special favor.
</div>

&ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;d rather see it my way. Please?&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And God did not give it, for the request was alien to Him, and you could
not ask this of a Father Who truly loved His Son. Therefore you made of
Him an unloving father, demanding of Him what only such a father could
give.
</div>

Demanding what only an unloving father could give.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And the peace of God&rsquo;s Son was shattered&hellip;
</div>

You got your divorce and lost your peace. You didn&rsquo;t know that was
going to happen. But it happened. You lost your peace and in its place
came conflict. And then came the grand idea, &ldquo;I can overcome this
conflict and this is my purpose and I am going to accomplish it.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And the peace of God&rsquo;s Son was shattered, for he no longer
understood his Father. He feared what he had made, but still more did he
fear his REAL father, having attacked his own glorious equality with
Him.
</div>

Like I said before, when you said, &ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;d rather do it
my way,&rdquo; and you got a divorce from your Father, you found that
you were fatherless. And that the experience of being fatherless was the
experience of being an orphan, something you had not anticipated. You
thought that you would still be as infinitely aware and truly aware and
sanely aware as you had been before you got the divorce, except that now
you would simply have the option to do things exactly the way you wanted
to do them. Not so.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In peace he &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the one who asked for specialness &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In peace he needed nothing and asked for nothing. In war he DEMANDED
everything and FOUND nothing. For how could the gentleness of love
respond to his demands EXCEPT by departing in peace and returning to the
Father? If the Son did not wish to remain in peace, he could not remain
at all.
</div>

He could not remain in the conscious awareness of his Sonship. He was
faced with the black and white stark experience of being an orphan.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If the Son did not wish to remain in peace, he could not remain at all.
For a darkened mind cannot live in the light, and it must seek a place
of darkness where it can believe it is where it is not.
</div>

Where? In the orphanage. Now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God did not allow this to happen. Yet you DEMANDED that it happen, and
therefore believed that it was so.
</div>

In other words, it did not happen, but you believe that it did.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To &ldquo;single out&rdquo;&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in other words, to make special &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is to &rdquo;make alone,&rdquo; and thus MAKE LONELY.
</div>

And do you see, that through the use of impressions, you create this
soft, vague, non-descriptiveness? You place this between you and
everything so that you never really connect with it, but just with the
impression you get from bouncing against a soft surface? And it keeps
you alone. And through the practice of impressions, you make yourself
constantly lonely.

Of course, the orphan just simply takes that on too and says,
&ldquo;Well, I&rsquo;m going to find myself a way to be happy in spite
of all of this. And I&rsquo;m going to think just happy thoughts.&rdquo;
You see? Happy, happy, happy thoughts. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m going to think
nothing but happy thoughts.  How can I not be happy then? If nothing
else enters my consciousness but happy thoughts, how can I not be happy
in spite of the fact that I&rsquo;m alone and lonely. Something I
can&rsquo;t seem to do anything about. But I can manage to find a way
for them not to bother me!&rdquo; You see. [chuckles] Oh-h &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To &ldquo;single out&rdquo; is to &ldquo;make alone,&rdquo; and thus
MAKE LONELY. God did not do this to you. Could He set you apart, KNOWING
that your peace lies in His oneness?
</div>

Even more, that your Being lies in His oneness.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He denied you only your request for pain, for suffering is not of His
creation. Having GIVEN you creation, He could not take it FROM you.
</div>

That&rsquo;s not the nature of gift is it. Something that&rsquo;s given
is given forever.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He could but answer your insane request with a sane answer which would
abide with you in your insanity.
</div>

Listen to that again:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He could but answer your insane request with a sane answer which would
abide with you in your insanity.
</div>

I am going to ask, if anyone who wants to raise their hand to answer, I
would like to hear what the answer is: &ldquo;What was the sane answer
that God gave?&rdquo; Yes? (audience response unintelligible) Anyone
else have a different answer?

The answer was the Holy Spirit. Yes, that which is nothing more than
your right Mind. The moment you got your divorce from the Father, that
of you which was utterly divine became to you something different from
you, but because it was you, it remained with you while you dallied with
the ego&mdash;the orphan mentality.

What you divinely Are cannot be separated from you even if you are
indulging in a mad idea that you are an orphan, that you&rsquo;re flesh
and blood and bones, that you came from a sperm and an egg, that
you&rsquo;re part of a process of physical evolution and on and on and
on. While you constantly confirm to yourself this self-perspective, the
Christ that you Are, the divine one that you Are, remains the divine one
that you Are right at this moment. I could say, hidden from you, but
more correctly, which you are hiding from yourself by virtue of an
intense insistence upon giving preference to all of the thoughts and
theories that constitute the orphan mind-set.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He could but answer your insane request with a sane answer which would
abide with you in your insanity. For His answer is the reference point
BEYOND illusions, from which you can look back on them &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the illusions &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and SEE them as insane. But seek THIS place and you WILL find
it, for love is in you and will lead you there.
</div>

It is not valuable to rely upon and value impressions. Impressions
aren&rsquo;t the real thing. If impressions are your stock in trade, if
impressions are your constant companions, if impressions are the way you
communicate with others, you&rsquo;re missing it. You&rsquo;re missing
reality.  You&rsquo;re missing each other.

Be willing to look at this. I don&rsquo;t mean be willing to look at it
intellectually and surmise about it and think about it. I mean, from
time to time during the day each day, ask yourself, &ldquo;Which me am I
doing an impression of now?&rdquo; And then spell it out. &ldquo;Oh,
I&rsquo;m doing the &lsquo;poor me&rsquo; impression, the
&lsquo;poor-put-upon me&rsquo; impression where no-one cares.  And boy,
do I know how to do that one good.&rdquo; Or, &ldquo;I&rsquo;m doing the
&lsquo;superiority&rsquo; impression. I&rsquo;m doing this impression
because I get to play at expressing authority and push people around and
sound strong.  And I don&rsquo;t do this one as good as I do the
&lsquo;poor me&rsquo; but I&rsquo;m getting better at this impression.
I&rsquo;m working on this impression.&rdquo; You see.  Be honest with
yourselves.

And then remember, that the one who&rsquo;s observing the impressions is
not the one claiming to be what the impression states. It is an
impartial observer&mdash;and it&rsquo;s you. You are not your
impressions. Even though you not only fool other people with them, you
fool yourselves with them.  You believe yourself. You&rsquo;re very
gullible! Oops, a not so nice thought.

You know, last week when I brought up the idea that not expressing
negative thoughts was dangerous, I wasn&rsquo;t saying &ldquo;Hey
everyone, go out and think mean thoughts&mdash;go out and think thoughts
that aren&rsquo;t nice.&rdquo; I wasn&rsquo;t giving carte blanch to
thinking negative thoughts.

What I meant was, notice when you are thinking negative thoughts.
Because you do. You think sarcastic thoughts. Somebody will say,
&ldquo;I never can find the bread-knife.&rdquo; And immediately you
think, &ldquo;Well of course not, you don&rsquo;t have enough sense to
put it in the same place every time.&rdquo; Even though generally
speaking, you never say those kinds of things. And you&rsquo;re pleasant
with everyone, even the one who said he couldn&rsquo;t find the
bread-knife.

You think negative thoughts but you ignore them.  Because you&rsquo;re
busy maintaining this impression of being a &ldquo;nice guy&rdquo; of
being a &ldquo;spiritual seeker of truth.&rdquo; It is important, it is
essential not to overlook the negative thoughts that you do employ. And
it&rsquo;s also essential for you to be able to look at the straight
truth. As I&rsquo;ve said over and over, you&rsquo;ve got to be able to
look at the fact that if you&rsquo;re doing something that doesn&rsquo;t
work, you&rsquo;re doing something that doesn&rsquo;t work. Stop it!
You&rsquo;re not Miss Perfect, or Mr. Perfect.

Acknowledge that you&rsquo;re not doing something well. Acknowledge that
you&rsquo;re doing something &hellip; oh dear, terrible word,
&ldquo;wrong&rdquo;&hellip; not so that you can be punished for it, but
so that you can see that you really don&rsquo;t want to continue doing
something that isn&rsquo;t valuable&mdash;so that you can stop.

Now let&rsquo;s come back.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Having GIVEN you creation, He&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Father &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; could not take it FROM you. He could but answer your insane
request with a sane answer which would abide with you in your insanity.

&hellip; which would abide with you in your insanity.
</div>

Not so nice words. If you are conscious but your conscious awareness of
things is distorted and you don&rsquo;t know it and nobody will tell
you, and nobody will show you an alternative, then you are stuck. And
the description of that stuckness is insanity.

Now, you have been stuck. And someone needs to be able to say to you,
&ldquo;You are stuck.&rdquo; But you know what? You&rsquo;re stuck in
something that has no real capacity to hold you. Freedom is available to
you and here&rsquo;s the way to gain your freedom from being stuck.
You&rsquo;re gonna have to think of yourself in a different way. And
part of your stuckness was, that you were thinking of yourself in an
unclear way. But if you will begin to consider the possibility, that
right now, you&rsquo;re the ultimate, right now you are the Christ
because right now, God is Being all there is to you right where you are,
you will be able to begin to abandon your faith in your current
distorted thinking processes.

So somebody has to be able to say, &ldquo;You&rsquo;re stuck and you
don&rsquo;t need to be.&rdquo; And you need to be able to hear that
you&rsquo;re stuck without feeling guilty for it and without feeling bad
about it. Because you need to get on to the next part of the sentence
&hellip;&ldquo;and you don&rsquo;t need to be.&rdquo;
&ldquo;You&rsquo;re stuck and you don&rsquo;t need to be.&rdquo; And you
don&rsquo;t need to be because the sane one that you are, is the one
that you are right now as you see yourself in a limited way.

You see yourself in a limited way, but the self you&rsquo;re seeing is
whole and is divine. And if you will reach for it, instead of believing
your thinking only, and what everyone else has taught you with all of
the other orphans have agreed to, you will find transformation beginning
to occur and you will come out of the distortions that you&rsquo;re
experiencing in your awareness.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He could but answer your insane request with a sane answer which would
abide with you in your insanity. For His answer is the reference point
BEYOND illusions&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; but in you, that is you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; from which &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; if you access it&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you can look back on them &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the illusions &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and SEE them as insane.
</div>

And seeing them as insane, from I&rsquo;m going to say, a newfound
sanity, you will release them like so much nonsense, without fretting
over them or fussing about, &ldquo;How could I ever have been so
ignorant. I was such an asshole!&rdquo;

You won&rsquo;t even get caught up in that because it will be so
nonsensical&mdash;so untrue&mdash;that it doesn&rsquo;t warrant a single
thought about it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
But seek THIS place &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning, all you have to do is to seek this place, just seek
this place &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and you WILL find it, for love is in you and will lead you
there.
</div>

The next section is entitled:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*Healing and Time*

And now the reason why you are afraid of this course should be apparent.
For this is a course on love because it is about you.
</div>

Five key words: Because it is about you. This Course is about you.
It&rsquo;s not about miracles. It&rsquo;s not about truth. It&rsquo;s
not about a new form of Christianity. It&rsquo;s not about a new form of
religion. It&rsquo;s about you. It&rsquo;s about everything about you,
[chuckles] from your orphan beliefs to what you divinely Are.

If it can&rsquo;t address you while you think you&rsquo;re an orphan and
while you&rsquo;re convinced about your orphanhood, if it can&rsquo;t
address you there, then it&rsquo;s not complete. And it can&rsquo;t move
you beyond it. And so it has to talk about things that aren&rsquo;t very
nice. It has to talk about negative ideas.

The Course talks about correction. Correction of what? Negative things.
What wholesome and holy and wonderful things require correction?

The thing is, this Course is about you, illuminating everything to you
about you, so you can see what is meaningful and what is not and have
the experience of the spontaneous release of what isn&rsquo;t of value.
Because when you see what isn&rsquo;t of value, you don&rsquo;t hold on
to it any longer&mdash;it drops away from you. So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And now the reason why you are afraid of this course should be apparent.
For this is a course on love because it is about you. You have been told
that your function in this world is healing, and your function in Heaven
is creating.
</div>

What does that mean? It means that as you&rsquo;re leaving the
orphanage, you will be engaged in healing. Healing of yourself and
healing for the other orphans. What does healing mean? It means
correction&mdash;the undoing of the orphan mindsets that have caused the
bondage to ignorance.

And so, it means uncovering the things that don&rsquo;t
work&mdash;uncovering the negative things. Uncovering the negative
things and illuminating their nonsensical nature.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego teaches that your function on earth is destruction, and that you
have no function at all in Heaven.
</div>

Well, the ego teaches that your function on earth is destruction. Well,
at the least it teaches you that your function on earth is to be
destroyed isn&rsquo;t it? You know, one day leads to another leads to
another leads to another leads to a hole in the ground with you in it.
Life is a terminal illness. That&rsquo;s what the ego teaches.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego teaches that your function on earth is destruction, and that you
have no function at all in Heaven. It would thus destroy you here and
bury you here, leaving you no inheritance except the dust out of which
it thinks you were made.
</div>

You see, this is what is to be undone. And truth is not here to make
that awful journey more comfortable.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As long as it &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the ego&mdash;the orphan mentality &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As long as it is reasonably satisfied with you, as its reasoning goes,
it offers you oblivion. When it becomes overtly savage, it offers you
hell.
</div>

It doesn&rsquo;t promise anything particularly pleasant does it?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet neither oblivion nor hell is as unacceptable to you as Heaven. For
your definition of Heaven IS hell and oblivion, and the real Heaven is
the greatest threat you think you could experience.
</div>

Again, how could that be? Because it&rsquo;s the greatest threat to your
being able to prove all by yourself that you are a valid entity. Not
only that, it deprives you of the ethic that the orphan mentality
created&mdash;the idea that God gave you the right to do that, that God
set that purpose in your heart and soul and being. You don&rsquo;t want
to be just some dumb puppet on the end of the strings held by something
other than you, even if the one holding the strings is the Father. And
the strings are the conduit of His creative Love that fills you with all
that He is, together with His infinite perspective, so that your
Birthright becomes the ever-present conscious experience of universal
creation.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet neither oblivion nor hell &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; which is what the ego offers you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is as unacceptable to you as Heaven.
</div>

Because of course, oblivion and hell that the ego gives you, still gives
you the option to succeed and to overcome and conquer your unworthiness
and prove that you are valid individuality on your own. See, it
doesn&rsquo;t challenge that, it lets you have your sweet desire.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet neither oblivion nor hell is as unacceptable to you as Heaven. For
your definition of Heaven IS hell and oblivion, and the real Heaven is
the greatest threat you think you could experience. For hell and
oblivion are ideas which YOU made up, and you are bent on demonstrating
their reality &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; why? &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; to establish YOURS. If THEIR reality is questioned, you believe
that YOURS is. For you believe that ATTACK is your reality, and that
your destruction
</div>

Listen to this:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is the final proof that you were right.
</div>

It&rsquo;s like saying, you made up the belief that being is a journey
from birth to death and you made this up as part of your own personal,
private act of creation&mdash;the accomplishment of which will
demonstrate your actual creative ability. And so, inevitably your death
will prove that you accomplished it. Do you see the insanity of it? You
have to die to prove you&rsquo;re real, or were real. [chuckles]

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Under the circumstances, would it not be more DESIRABLE to have been
wrong&hellip;
</div>

Even apart from the fact that you were wrong &hellip; you see.

I want you to imagine a huge orphanage. In fact I want you to imagine a
planet full of huge orphanages around the globe &hellip;
beautiful&mdash;a lot of them, large, full of creature comforts. Many
years ago one of the American presidents had fire-side chats over the
radio with the citizens of the United States. And I want you to imagine
that on this planet&mdash;this globe full of orphanages&mdash;every
Saturday and occasionally Sunday nights, there are fire-side chats with
Jesus, fire-side chats with me. And all the orphans gather to listen so
that they might be inspired to be happier with themselves.

We&rsquo;re having one of these fire-side chats right now.  And the
orphans say, &ldquo;But Raj, don&rsquo;t challenge my being in an
orphanage. Don&rsquo;t challenge my being an orphan. Don&rsquo;t say
mean things to me like I&rsquo;m deluded to think that this orphanage
that I&rsquo;m in is really part of the Kingdom of Heaven. I know it
isn&rsquo;t because all of us orphans built it according to our plans.
We figured out what we wanted. We know it doesn&rsquo;t have anything to
do with the Kingdom of Heaven. Don&rsquo;t be mean to us and say that
we&rsquo;re deluded when we think that we could&rsquo;ve raised our
little finger much less built these orphanages without God. Don&rsquo;t
insult us like that. Don&rsquo;t say those kinds of things to us.

&ldquo;But I will listen to the nice things you have to say. I will
listen to the inspiring things that you have to say.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Under the circumstances, would it not be more DESIRABLE &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; I&rsquo;m saying to all of you&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
to have been wrong&hellip;
</div>

&ldquo;Oh no, don&rsquo;t say that to me. That&rsquo;s mean.
That&rsquo;s unkind. That&rsquo;s a negative thought. I didn&rsquo;t
tune in to this fireside chat to hear that.&rdquo;

Nevertheless I must say &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Under the circumstances, would it not be more DESIRABLE to have been
wrong, even apart from the fact that you WERE wrong? While it could
perhaps be argued that death suggests there WAS life, no-one would claim
that it proves that there IS life.
</div>

You see, the reasoning is faulty. You are living out a goal that is
accomplished by your non-existence. You are trying to prove your valid
existence by it coming to an end.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Even the past life, which death might indicate could only have been
futile if it must come to this, and NEEDS this to prove that it was.
You question Heaven&hellip;
</div>

&ldquo;Gosh, I do. This building I live in, this orphanage cannot be
part of the Kingdom of Heaven. We built it. We designed it. Every part
of it expresses our private but mutual intent. We are responsible for
it.  And its on this globe which is a result of a big bang, not God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You question Heaven, but you do not question THIS. You could heal and be
healed if you DID question it. And even though you know not Heaven,
might it not be more desirable than death?
</div>

So what am I doing? I&rsquo;m inviting the orphans to come out of the
orphanage. I&rsquo;m inviting the orphans to come out of the mindset
that keeps them from seeing what they really are. I am inviting you out
of the mindset that keeps you actively engaged in impressionism.
I&rsquo;m asking you to come out of the mindset that requires that you
not look at the negative things you are practicing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have been as selective in your questioning as in your perception.
An open mind is more honest than this.
</div>

If you try to use what I&rsquo;m sharing with you to confirm a state of
ignorance that you&rsquo;re experiencing, I will not let you succeed at
it. I am not here to make you more comfortable in your illusion.
I&rsquo;m not here to let you continue being dishonest with yourselves
while you are saying that you are something that you&rsquo;re not. And
that where you are is not the Kingdom of Heaven. And that there is not
another way to look at it, that its&rsquo; your Birthright to be looking
at it through.

And it will behoove you all to be more willing than you have been to
look for the direct experience of your Brother and Sister and the events
in your daily lives, so that you&rsquo;re not just living on
impressions. So that you might have direct experience, which is what
you&rsquo;re supposed to be having. And so that you might see what is
Really there, because you have let the Father reveal it to you.

There&rsquo;s the rub. And there&rsquo;s the wonderful answer: Because
you have let the Father reveal it to you&mdash;because, let&rsquo;s
bring it home even more, not because you have let &ldquo;The
Father&rdquo; reveal it to you, but because you have let &ldquo;your
Father&rdquo; reveal it to you. Stop thinking of and talking about God
as &ldquo;The Father.&rdquo; Start putting the word, &ldquo;my&rdquo; in
front of Father all the time. There&rsquo;s a radical difference between
talking about &ldquo;the Father&rdquo; and &ldquo;my Father&rdquo;
meaning, God&mdash;a radical difference. When you say, &ldquo;my
Father&rdquo; and you&rsquo;re talking about God, it makes a radical
difference because it&rsquo;s a statement about you as well. A very
important and essential statement about you. And because you&rsquo;re
using the word, &ldquo;my Father&rdquo; you cannot escape the
chemicalization and transformation that the use of those words cause in
you.

So, be with this during this coming week. Be with the awareness that you
are used to functioning in the context of impressions, which means no
direct connection whatsoever with anything. Be aware that that
constitutes an empty and lonely experience that it&rsquo;s not your
Birthright to be experiencing.

Dare to be conscious of that unpleasant and negative thought, because
you won&rsquo;t hold on to something of that sort once you finally
accept it as the truth and you will reach for something else. And you
will dare to be present with whatever&rsquo;s going on in your day
without employing an off-the-cuff, knee jerk response, assessment,
impression. And then hesitate long enough to be with the situation or
the one you&rsquo;re with, with the desire to see behind the impression
they&rsquo;re engaged in presenting. And ask to see what the Father
would show you to see. So that you might say exactly what triggers
healing.  This is the good news. This is the good news: The Gospel.

Be careful, because the voice, not the Voice for Truth, but the voice
for fear, is liable to say, &ldquo;Well this doesn&rsquo;t serve me very
well.&rdquo; Always the orphan mentality, the ego, behaves, thinks and
acts in self-serving ways.

Hearing what I&rsquo;ve had to say tonight and last week, might very
well cause you to have sad feelings or depressed feelings. And have no
idea why you&rsquo;re feeling that way. But its because the orphan
mentality is saying, &ldquo;This doesn&rsquo;t serve me well at all.
This doesn&rsquo;t serve me well at all. I don&rsquo;t want to have
anything to do with what doesn&rsquo;t serve me well.&rdquo;

But there&rsquo;s another part of you that does recognize the truth of
what I&rsquo;m saying. And so you are persisting, hanging in with it.
And you have this conflict&mdash;this tension between that in you which
is recognizing things it hasn&rsquo;t seen before that are clarifying
and are uplifting. And at the same time, what you have called your
normal mentality, is saying, &ldquo;This does not serve me well at
all.&rdquo;

The orphan mentality is not going to find what I&rsquo;m saying useful
or happifying. The habit that you&rsquo;re engaged in, is not going to
dissolve without a struggle, I&rsquo;ll say. It is going to object. But
then you must remember that it doesn&rsquo;t serve you well to believe
that you&rsquo;re an orphan when you&rsquo;re not an orphan. In fact, it
causes you completely unnecessary pain, sorrow,
suffering&mdash;unnecessary.

I look forward to being with you next week. I am aware that
ego-structures are collapsing. I am aware that you are hearing what I am
meaning and it&rsquo;s important for you to know that although these
collapses may cause certain stresses to be felt, they are indicators of
healing. If the ego is complaining, something wonderful is happening.

[^1]: T12.2 The Fear of Redemption

