---
title: Sep 2, 2006
ref: "T12.3 Healing and Time"
alink: "/acim/text/12/chap1203/"
---

PAUL: This is me, Paul. The idea has been expressed on line that there
are those who feel sorry for me when Raj uses me as an example and feels
that it&rsquo;s not really in good taste for Raj to do that. I want to
let you know especially tonight when I know I&rsquo;m going to be the
example, [chuckle] that I&rsquo;m very happy. It doesn&rsquo;t bother me
a bit.

Everything that Raj is teaching and everything we&rsquo;re reading about
in the Course, can very easily be left in lofty terms that aren&rsquo;t
totally relevant. And in every case when he uses me as an example,
[chuckle] he&rsquo;s making it relevant. And if that makes it easier for
someone else to relate to it, I am more than happy for him to do it. It
has never bothered me. So, I just needed to make that clear.

RAJ: Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

I am indeed going to start with a story that began some time ago when
Paul, for righteous reasons&mdash;very good wholesome righteous
reasons&mdash;committed himself to being involved in this work that
we&rsquo;re doing together. He feels that it&rsquo;s very important to
him. He also feels that it&rsquo;s just simply important and its worth
sharing. And so he has devoted himself to it.

But as time has gone by, his devotion to it has caused him to restrict
his attention so it has become smaller and smaller. And in many ways he
has become like a hermit, or like someone in a monastery, apart from
everything, staying in that place where his mind is undisturbed, and he
can attend to me&mdash;attend to whatever he and I are to do together.

Because of this, it has become more and more difficult for him to
actually get anything done, which has frustrated him even further. It
has seemed that life itself has been very demanding&mdash;you know,
irrelevant things like paying bills, and doing the bookkeeping and
things that have nothing to do with enlightenment, nothing to do with
transformation of the mind &hellip; how about just going to the post
office, and going grocery shopping, you know &hellip; family
involvements. He had begun to feel as though no one respected what he
was doing as much as it needed to be respected.

And yet, he did not grasp that he was binding himself unnecessarily. And
when he would come to me and, how shall I put it, in spite of the fact
that he was angry at the situation, he would, in a friendly fashion,
enquire of me how the situation could be changed so that he could
accomplish the things that needed to be accomplished. Meaning, the
things he had decided needed to be accomplished, like proofing the
transcripts so that people could have them and enjoy them. And there was
demand for them.

In his mind he had become very complex and very tight and very
frustrated and very angry. So, last Friday morning, the day before last
week&rsquo;s Gathering, while Susan was taking her shower, I talked with
her. And I told her that it was not only important, it was necessary for
she and Paul to leave and go to Disneyland.

Now Paul has Goosebumps. He is having a personal reaction because now
everybody knows that last Saturday there was no Gathering because he was
playing. He was not attending to business.

And so when she got out of the shower, she said, and she was being
gentle [chuckle] with him, she said, &ldquo;I really don&rsquo;t know
what to make of this. Raj has just told me that we are to leave
immediately, like that day, for Disneyland and not come back until the
following Tuesday.&rdquo; Not just over the weekend, but three days.

Well, Paul had his immediate opinions about it which he didn&rsquo;t
voice. But he knew now that nobody even in his own household really
understood the importance of the work that he is involved in and that
doing something frivolous at the last moment before a meeting, was more
important. And this fueled his already existing frustration. After all,
at this point, there are three transcripts not available on the website
which he was intent upon getting done because it was a right thing to
do&mdash;an important right thing to do.

And of course, the last few meetings that we&rsquo;ve had, have dealt
with the orphan mentality and the fact that the way you get your meaning
is by doing things well--doing important things well. You see. You think
I&rsquo;m just talking to you, but I&rsquo;m talking to Paul too.

Now, Paul found a place in himself that recognized&mdash;kind
Paul&mdash;that Sue was tired and she really did need a break. And that
was the only way he, himself, could justify this. She says, &ldquo;Ask
Raj yourself and let&rsquo;s find out whether I was hearing correctly or
not.&rdquo;

Well, of course, that&rsquo;s a really loaded question for Paul. If the
answer is &ldquo;no,&rdquo; then he&rsquo;s saying she heard
incorrectly. If the answer was &ldquo;yes&rdquo; it meant that I
didn&rsquo;t value what he valued, which was to be dutifully there for
the meeting Saturday night, and that Friday and Friday night to get
those transcripts finished and uploaded onto the website. And to be able
to be accountable with good favor.

Well, I told him that she heard me correctly. You see, [chuckling] he
was not happy with that answer. But, as a pretty talented orphan, he
decided to be as flexible as he could be, and to do his best to feign
willingness, even with a certain lilt to his step. Okay? But as the day
went by, tickets were purchased and packing began, he noticed a
discomfort in his hip. Felt sort of like a pinched nerve or something.
It went from his hip-bone around into the groin. But it wasn&rsquo;t
disabling, it was just bothersome. He figured out for himself, that it
must&rsquo;ve been from something he had lifted in the process of
packing. No big deal.

And so, he let everyone know there would be no Gathering and proceeded
to get everything ready to go, along with Sue. And Saturday morning very
early at 4 o&rsquo;clock they left to catch the plane.

Now, I&rsquo;m not going to go into every detail of the trip. But the
point was that he went with a grudge which he hid.  And he tried to make
the best of a situation that did not fit with his sense of what was
meaningful and important. He knew he, in terms of being a responsible
orphan, was already behind in things that appropriately needed to be
done. And to take this time out, oh, and by the time it finished, it
turned out to be five days gone. Five days of what he interpreted to be,
irrelevant, meaningless activity. He felt disrespected, dishonored and
misunderstood.

Now, I will tie this in with what we&rsquo;re going to be reading
tonight. We were talking last week about, and the week before, about how
the ego uses time. How the orphan mindset uses time. That it uses the
past, which is flawed, to justify a future in which, remember that word?
&ldquo;expiation&rdquo; can occur&mdash;the atoning for one&rsquo;s
mistakes, the doing of penances or holy activities to offset.

Well, Paul saw that his past, and what he perceived to be his
willingness to disrespect what he should be respecting, because
everybody else was disrespecting it, and they had needs too, that he
would then have a future in which to pay for it.

As the days went by, the discomfort in his hip became more severe. And
he was able to cover it up very well until the fourth day. And on the
fourth day when he had to have help to put on his socks and his pants,
and it was obvious [chuckling] that there was a need, and he got to the
park and had to rent a cart to ride in because it was too uncomfortable
to walk, he still didn&rsquo;t make any connection between the grudge he
was carrying, his conviction in the rightness of his perspective, he
didn&rsquo;t see the connection between that and the physical problem
that he was having.

Now, all of you do this in one way or another. You have your pet project
or you have your life work. Or you have something relative to your job
that you must do well on because it is going to be the turning point for
the rest of your career. And so, the rest of your career depends upon
what you&rsquo;re going to do at this immediate point. And you become
fixated on it and anything that doesn&rsquo;t have anything to do with
that is irrelevant and is an intrusion and is an expression of lack of
respect for what you know you have to do. Even though the intrusions
that are coming in are saying, &ldquo;Sweetheart, you&rsquo;re
neglecting the family&mdash;hey, you can&rsquo;t do it this way because
everyone around you is suffering. You&rsquo;re short-tempered. You are
curt and you are actually unkind and you cannot do this. You must find a
way to be able to express love.&rdquo;

And you say, &ldquo;Everybody is simply going to have to understand what
I&rsquo;m going through and let me get past this point and then
I&rsquo;ll be able to be relaxed again.&rdquo;

You see. You all do this. You all get your mind set. You get your mind
set on something and everything else must take second position. Now,
with this in mind, let&rsquo;s go into the Book.

We ended up last week&mdash;last meeting&mdash;illustrating the fact,
that as an orphan, as one who is self-originated, self-created, your one
purpose is to prove your validity. You see, those who are orphans have
fathers and mothers who give them validity. Those who are not orphans
have mothers and fathers who give them validity.

But orphans have no connection to anything, and so they cannot gather
the validity of their existence from anything, and so they must create
it out of whole cloth. And because they are trying to successfully be
something they cannot be&mdash;none of you can successfully be an
independent orphan&mdash;everything you do is bound to fail. And so life
is a struggle. And as we&rsquo;ve talked about, you&rsquo;ve taken on
the challenge of that struggle. But at some point the truth will
out&mdash;the truth will become clear that you cannot be an orphan, that
you cannot be what you&rsquo;re trying to be.

And so, what does the orphan mindset do? What does the ego do? It says,
&ldquo;Okay, if I am bound to fail ultimately, I am going to interpret
that ending on my terms.&rdquo; That ending being the death of the ego.
That event of death is going to be used as the proof that what happened
before it was life&mdash;was real.

And so, although death isn&rsquo;t looked forward to, and no-one is
significantly challenging it in the way that will demonstrate its
nothingness, it is accepted. And so part of the ethic of the ego&rsquo;s
infrastructure, is to embrace death as an ultimate proof that life had
been successfully established and lived.

Now, we read last time &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Even the past life which death might indicate could only have been
futile if it must come to this&hellip;[^1]
</div>

I mean, what&rsquo;s the point of living a life that must end in death
in order for its actuality to be validated? &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Even the past life which death might indicate could only have been
futile if it must come to this, and NEEDS this to prove that it was. You
question Heaven, but you do not question THIS.
</div>

You don&rsquo;t. You know the saying, &ldquo;Only two things are for
sure: death and taxes.&rdquo; No-one actually stands up and says,
&ldquo;I don&rsquo;t intend to die, because I am beginning to understand
that death is an illusory experience that we put ourselves through, that
we don&rsquo;t have to put ourselves through, and I&rsquo;m getting off
the wheel of history. This life I am living now, is the life when
I&rsquo;m going to get off the wheel of history.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You could heal and be healed if you DID question it. And even though you
know not Heaven, might it not be more desirable than death? You have
been as selective in your questioning as in your perception.
</div>

You see. And I want to tie this in with Paul. He has been as selective
in his questioning as in his perception. Because he wants me, when he
comes and enquires of me, he enquires in the context of my changing the
circumstances so that he can do something he feels righteously that he
should be doing. When that isn&rsquo;t what he should be doing, and the
way he&rsquo;s feeling obligated to it, is not the way he should be
feeling.

The next sentence says &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
An open mind is more honest than this.
</div>

When you go to your Guide or you go to the Holy Spirit, and you ask a
question, and you ask the question in a way that requires the answer to
fit your pre-existing values, you&rsquo;re not going to hear an answer
because your mind isn&rsquo;t open.

And Paul couldn&rsquo;t hear the answers. And while he was on the trip,
he would go out on the balcony every morning when he got up. And he
would implore me to explain to him how all of this nonsense, all of this
stimulation that he found everyone else basking in. And of course he had
very negative opinions about it, I mean it was almost as though they
were unable to exist without this artificial stimulation of new
experiences and new things to see and bright colors and things that had
nothing to do with teleportation, had nothing to do with physical
healing as his hip [chuckle] gets more and more uncomfortable.

See, he didn&rsquo;t realize that what he was choosing to do was
disabling him in his denial of what confronted him because it
didn&rsquo;t fit his current value system.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
An open mind is more honest than this.
</div>

Now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the orphan mentality &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; has a very strange notion of time, and it is with this notion
that your questioning might well begin. The ego invests heavily in the
past, and in the end believes that the past is the ONLY aspect of time
that is meaningful.
</div>

All of Paul&rsquo;s thoughts were out of the past&mdash;commitments he
had made long ago, circumstances that made it impossible for him to
fulfill those commitments, the fact that things that should have been
done weren&rsquo;t done and were still waiting for him to do while he
did irrelevant things. All of these past memories, issues and
experiences were what he was valuing. It was impossible for him to be
present in the moment at Disneyland.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego invests heavily in the past, and in the end believes that the
past is the ONLY aspect of time that is meaningful. You will remember
that we said its emphasis on gilt enables it to ensure its continuity by
making the future LIKE the past, and &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; thus avoiding the present.
</div>

If you want to imagine time correctly, it is a line that comes from the
ancient past up to the present moment, and you see that present moment
as a transition point in the line to what will come, the future.  But
the fact is, what the ego sees as a transition point, is a gap in the
line. The past is memory and the future is imagination. And
there&rsquo;s a gap between the two. They are not connected. And that
gap, if that&rsquo;s where you will bring your attention, is where your
escape from time can occur.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You will remember that we said its emphasis on guilt &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the ego&rsquo;s &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; enables it to ensure its continuity by making the future LIKE
the past and thus avoiding the present. By the notion of PAYING for the
past in the future the past becomes the DETERMINER of the future, making
them continuous WITHOUT an intervening present.
</div>

You see, [chuckling] five days, Paul was never in California. [laughing]
He was in the past forecasting the future, and letting the past color
the present. So that everyone around him who was tickled to death and
happy and laughing and enjoying themselves, were all insane.
Misunderstanding what was meaningful and distracting themselves from
what was meaningful by silly stimulation.

He saw himself. He saw his mind-set. And, all the time he was being
there having to observe these people being insane, he was feeling the
weight of the future beating him down, putting him further behind,
putting him at further disadvantage and ultimately, demonstrating to him
his powerlessness. It was very insulting.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
By the notion of PAYING for the past in the future the past becomes the
DETERMINER of the future, making them continuous WITHOUT an intervening
present. For the ego uses the present ONLY as a brief transition to the
future, in which it brings the past TO the future by interpreting the
present in PAST terms.

NOW has no meaning to the ego. The present merely reminds it of past
hurts&hellip;
</div>

&ldquo;Yeah, can&rsquo;t you so-and-so&rsquo;s see that what
you&rsquo;re having so much fun at and what you insisted on dragging me
along with you to experience is like rubbing salt in the
wound&mdash;just making the problem worse? Don&rsquo;t you understand me
at all? Don&rsquo;t you understand what this work is that Raj and I are
doing?&rdquo;

That&rsquo;s what the ego says.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The present merely reminds it of past hurts, and it reacts to the
present as if it WERE the past. The ego cannot tolerate RELEASE from the
past&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; why not? Because it must have the past in order to secure a
future for itself in which you can pay for what you&rsquo;ve done wrong
and improve yourself, refine your soul, bring yourself closer to God.
Which really means, be an orphan who manages, let&rsquo;s say, to get up
to the top floor of the orphanage with the best view. [sigh]

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego cannot tolerate RELEASE from the past, and although the past is
no more, the ego tries to preserve its image by responding AS IF it were
present. Thus it dictates reactions to those you meet now from a PAST
reference point, obscuring their present reality.
</div>

You remember last time we were talking about someone going to a party
and meeting somebody and the upshot of it was, that that person reminded
them of another person they knew.  In other words, the impression they
got from this person was like the impression they got from another
person. The impression was something they got and had nothing to do with
either of these individuals. And so connection never occurred.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; it dictates reactions to those you meet now from a PAST
reference point, obscuring their present reality.
</div>

Paul&rsquo;s mindset dictated his reactions to those around
him&mdash;the stupid ones who aught to know what&rsquo;s important but
obviously didn&rsquo;t, and that included his wife, Susan. And
that&rsquo;s exactly how malicious the ego can be when its will is
violated, because Paul, in his right Mind, knows that Susan is his
partner. She is part of the team that he and she constitute. And he
knows that her entire motivation is one that is in support of this work
and of his relationship with me and [chuckle] most of all, she looks
forward to his experiencing the real benefit of our collaboration
&hellip; which can be better stated, our friendship.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In effect, if you follow the ego&rsquo;s dictates, you will react to
your brothers as though they were someone ELSE, and this will surely
prevent you from perceiving them as they ARE.
</div>

Paul goes to Disneyland every day and not only having negative thoughts
about those close to him, but noticing how people tend to be led around
by very subtle controls. Noticing how well designed
[chuckling]&mdash;you can hear how silly this is&mdash;noticing how well
designed and laid out the park is so that people can be moved with the
greatest ease. See. So that people can be moved with the greatest ease.
Rather than so that people can move where they wish to go with the
greatest of ease. It is designed so that people can most easily do what
they feel invited to do by the circumstances and their desires.

But Paul interpreted it as control, and that these people were all like
sheep being herded from one land to another.

The orphan mindset is delusional. And that&rsquo;s what it&rsquo;s
important to understand. And it is also mesmeric. It is like getting
caught in an eddy in a stream or a river. Like a leaf getting caught in
an eddy off to the side where the current flows in a circular motion and
the leaf is trapped there away from the movement of the stream.

The mindsets you employ and the values you employ can become mesmeric.
Another word you might find more palatable is, obsessive. And the answer
isn&rsquo;t for the details of the obsession to be altered, but for the
inclination to be obsessive, to be abandoned. And Paul was caught in an
eddy. He was mesmerized. So that he saw everything in very stark and
negative terms. Because why? Because his important and valuable work was
being honored less than the wild stimulation provided by Disneyland.

Now, you all can laugh, but your own obsessions are just as silly.

Let&rsquo;s continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In effect, if you follow the ego&rsquo;s dictates, you will react to
your brothers as though they were someone ELSE&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; [chuckling] the jerks you think they are &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and this will surely prevent you from perceiving them as they
ARE. And you will receive messages from them out of your OWN past
because, by making it real in the present, you are forbidding yourself
to LET IT GO.
</div>

Oh boy, Paul held on to it and held on to it, tighter and tighter, until
his leg wouldn&rsquo;t move and he had to ride in an elderly
person&rsquo;s cart.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You thus deny yourself the message of release that every brother offers
you NOW.
</div>

Meaning, in the gap between the past and the present, the past and the
future. Yes, there was wonderful stimulation constantly provided at
Disneyland. That, if allowed to register, would have served to let Paul
slip off the line of time and become unbound to what he had become
fixated on. Which was the whole reason I insisted that they go.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The shadowy figures from the past &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; these are memories, these are impressions that you&rsquo;re
giving preference to rather than the experience of actual contact with a
Brother.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The shadowy figures from the past are precisely what you must ESCAPE.
</div>

In other words, it isn&rsquo;t the reconfiguration of the shadowy
figures from the past that needs to occur, it is escape from them that
must occur.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For they are not real, and have no hold over you unless you bring them
WITH you.
</div>

And can you see what Paul took with him to Disneyland? He took the past.
He took a whole way of thinking and he took it with him into an
environment that tried to suck his attention away from his obsession.
And he held onto it for righteous reasons.

He cannot use my presence or his willingness to be connected with me.
And no-one else can either.  And he also cannot hold his connection with
the Holy Spirit&mdash;that which is nothing more than his right
Mind&mdash;as a proof of his value, of his meaningfulness, or of his
excellent position as a spiritualizing orphan, an image. It isn&rsquo;t
something to capitalize on because that&rsquo;s just an impression as
well.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The shadowy figures from the past are precisely what you must ESCAPE.
</div>

You know, the impression about so-and-so that is like the impression you
got from her tonight. That&rsquo;s a shadowy figure from the past that
colors your experience in the present and completely cuts you off from
what&rsquo;s really happening tonight.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The shadowy figures from the past &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and I&rsquo;m reading this over and over because it&rsquo;s a
significant sentence.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The shadowy figures from the past are precisely what you must ESCAPE.
For they are not real, and have no hold over you unless you bring them
WITH you. They carry the spots of pain in your minds, directing you to
attack in the present in retaliation for a past that is no more.
</div>

And talk about attack. Paul was smooth at it and not too cutting, but in
all righteousness, he let it be known that what everyone was engaged in,
wasn&rsquo;t in his opinion, really valuable and therefore he
couldn&rsquo;t let himself fully embrace it.  And the words that came
out of his mouth were not nice.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
They carry the spots of pain in your minds, directing you to attack in
the present in retaliation for a past that is no more. And this decision
is one of FUTURE pain.
</div>

This decision sets into motion the continuation of the past. It is
therefore a decision of future pain.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Unless you learn that past pain is delusional, you are choosing a future
of illusions and losing the endless opportunities &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that Disneyland provides which you could find for release in
the present.

It actually says &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Unless you learn that past pain is delusional, you are choosing a future
of illusions and losing the endless opportunities which you could find
for release in the present.
</div>

Doesn&rsquo;t have to be Disneyland. You can be caught up in a sense of
loss or of failed purpose, and go out and work in your garden and find
in the garden, endless opportunities for release in the present.
Everything is stimulating if you don&rsquo;t mind your uptight red-ass
attitude being unsettled, unrutted, kicked out!

You are confronted at every moment, whether it&rsquo;s Disneyland or
whether it&rsquo;s your garden, by the Kingdom of Heaven. If you
don&rsquo;t think that reality is stimulating, then you have some
wonderful discoveries to make.

Being Awake does not mean experiencing a mind so full of peace,
[whispering] that there&rsquo;s no movement&mdash;that nothing happens
that might distract you from the quiet. Doesn&rsquo;t that sort of sound
like the experience you&rsquo;ll have in that box six feet under?

That&rsquo;s not life. That&rsquo;s not Reality and that&rsquo;s not the
nature or the experience of a holy Mind&mdash;a whole Mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego would PRESERVE your nightmares&hellip;
</div>

You see, it&rsquo;s so easy to say, &ldquo;Well what in the hell is an
ego anyway? The Course talks about the ego &hellip; the ego &hellip; the
ego &hellip; the ego.&rdquo;  The ego&rsquo;s nothing more than your bad
habits that you employ and won&rsquo;t let go of. Just like Paul was.
And it would preserve your nightmares, reestablish daily, momentarily,
everything that happens.

All of the intricate creativity and artwork of all the rides and grounds
at Disneyland, are just tantalizing tidbits of nonsense that, like the
fire draws the moth into the flame, draw you into your forgetfulness of
what&rsquo;s important. Paul defined what was important to him as a holy
work. Others might define it as a turning point in their career. Others
might define it as obtaining emancipation as a woman.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego would PRESERVE your nightmares, and PREVENT you from awakening
and understanding that they ARE past.
</div>

Every morning Paul could have gone out on that balcony and looked around
and let the present jar him out of the mesmerizing eddy of his thoughts
that he was caught by. You see, it isn&rsquo;t the circumstances with
the transcripts or the demands of daily life that needs to be gotten
away from, it&rsquo;s this insane use of the mind by becoming
preoccupied and fixated and obsessed upon a way of looking at things
that doesn&rsquo;t represent the facts, but which are so compellingly
obvious to you in your distorted frame of reference, that you believe
it.

Now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Would you RECOGNIZE a holy encounter if you are merely perceiving it as
a meeting with your own past?
</div>

See, that doesn&rsquo;t mean that you would perceive it, you&rsquo;d
say, &ldquo;Oh, this is a meeting from my past.&rdquo; That isn&rsquo;t
what it means. If you are merely perceiving something going on in the
present, from a prior reference point, if you meet a new person who
reminds you of a person you used to know, you&rsquo;re meeting with your
own past, not with the individual in front of you.

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Would you RECOGNIZE a holy encounter if you are merely perceiving it as
a meeting with your own past? For you are meeting no-one, and the
SHARING of salvation, which MAKES the encounter holy, is excluded from
your sight.
</div>

The last thing Paul wanted to do during those five days was share
Salvation. [laughter] He wanted to nurse his wounds and let everybody
know how insensitive they were.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit teaches that you always meet YOURSELF, and the encounter
is holy because YOU are. The ego teaches that you always encounter your
past, and because your dreams  WERE not holy &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; were, past tense &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; not holy the future CANNOT be, and the present is without
meaning. It is evident that the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s perception of time
is the exact opposite of the ego&rsquo;s.
</div>

Oh, yeah, The Holy Spirit, yeah&mdash;that which is nothing but your
right Mind.

I want to introduce something here. The Course talks about the Voice for
Truth and the voice for fear. Right?

Well, I&rsquo;m going to tell you something. The Voice for Truth is the
Holy Spirit, right?&mdash;nothing more than you&rsquo;re right Mind.
Well, the Voice for Truth and the voice for fear are both your voice,
you know, speaking out of both sides of your mouth. You give voice to
one teacher or the other. Without you to give voice to it, neither
teacher would be manifest.

When you give voice, as Paul did for those five days, to the voice for
fear, you are speaking from a state of inner delusion. You are speaking
from a mind-set that cannot get out of itself and insists upon
magnifying itself. It is a form of insanity. It is an experience of
mesmerism&mdash;of being mesmerized.

But when you make a point of becoming still and listening for the Holy
Spirit, or me, or your Guide, and you hear and you give voice to that,
you are giving voice to that which is nothing more is your right Mind.
And that which you truly Are blossoms, blooms, begins to come forth and
fill you with a new experience of yourself which, if it is entertained,
if it is allowed to remain, will slowly and even rapidly, cause your
frame of mind, your perspective to shift so that to entertain the voice
for fear and give it voice will become less and less attractive to you.

And that&rsquo;s the way you step off the wheel of history. That&rsquo;s
the way you slip through the little gap between the past and the future.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is evident that the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s perception of time is the
exact opposite of the ego&rsquo;s. The reason is equally clear, for they
perceive the goal of time as diametrically opposed.

The Holy Spirit &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your right Mind &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; interprets time&rsquo;s purpose as rendering the need for it
unnecessary.
</div>

Paul could not have been miserable if he did not value time. Because the
past had put him in a bad position that would cause his future to be
more and more problematic. And that was his justification for not being
present in the now, no matter what the stimulation was in the now.

The stimulation could have been when he was standing out on the
balcony&mdash;a bird dropping falling and hitting the ground from a bird
up in the pine tree&mdash;that could&rsquo;ve been the point of
stimulation that brought his attention into the Now and cleared his
head. Because it wasn&rsquo;t the subject matter of his attention. It
was, I&rsquo;m going to say it this way, the timeliness of his
perception. Was his perception really in the Now, uncolored by the past
and uncolored by his projections of the future? You see? It
doesn&rsquo;t matter what the subject matter is.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit interprets time&rsquo;s purpose as rendering the need
for it unnecessary. Thus does He regard the function of time as
temporary, serving only his teaching function, which is temporary by
definition.
</div>

The teaching function of your right Mind, is to bring you back into your
right Mind. Well, that isn&rsquo;t going to take eternity. It
isn&rsquo;t going to take forever. It is going to happen. And so, the
time it takes means that the function is a temporary function. And when
you finally yield into the moment, into the Now, and let your attention
be there without the coloration of your memory or your anticipative
imagination, you will wake up.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
HIS emphasis &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is therefore &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; listen to this &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; on the only aspect of time which CAN extend to the infinite,
for NOW is the closest approximation of eternity which this world
offers.
</div>

Why? Because it is as though the little gap between the line of the past
and the line of the future, the little gap is sitting in the middle of
eternity. It is happening now. It&rsquo;s the only thing that&rsquo;s
present. And if the line that constitutes the past, and the line that
constitutes the future were snuffed out, what would happen to the little
gap?  Well, the little gap only appeared to have size because of how
close the line of the past and the line of the future were together. You
drop them out and now that little space can&rsquo;t be identified
between endlessness&mdash;eternity.

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
HIS emphasis is therefore on the only aspect of time which CAN extend to
the infinite, for NOW is the closest approximation of eternity which
this world offers. It is in the REALITY of now, without past OR future,
that the beginning of the appreciation of eternity lies. For only now is
HERE, and IT presents the opportunities &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; Oh, dear, that awful thing called stimulation &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; IT presents the opportunities for the holy encounters in which
salvation can be found.
</div>

You see, you take your weekends like Paul took his vacation. You take it
with a grievance. You know, your life at work is stressful. But you get
two days off. And you get a little relief where you can do a few things
you would like to do. But the next week is gonna come and it&rsquo;s
going to be like last week.

And you don&rsquo;t realize that last week was nothing more than a week
of impressions you had about last week, and thoughts you had about those
impressions. And what you&rsquo;re anticipating for next week, is built
upon the impressions, not the actual experience with reality, but the
impressions of reality which you took in the week before that you expect
to happen. And so you set the stage. And you value this. You think you
have to do it.

And like Paul discovered after the fact, he didn&rsquo;t have to do it
and you don&rsquo;t have to do it. You don&rsquo;t have to get caught in
an obsessive pattern of insane thinking. And thinking isn&rsquo;t even
really a good word for what&rsquo;s happening. An obsessive,
unintelligent discordant movement of disconnected, unreasonable thoughts
which you think are totally reasonable. And because you believe them,
when they are all impressions, and not an experience of reality at all,
you need a means of escape. From what? Not the job, but from the fact
that you are operating on the basis of impressions that you gather for
whatever righteous reasons you&rsquo;ve come up with, and which you use
to refuse to experience the moment you&rsquo;re in&mdash;the Real
moment. That is what you need freedom from. And that&rsquo;s where
healing occurs.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego, on the other hand, regards the function of time as one of
extending itself IN PLACE of eternity, for, like the Holy Spirit, the
ego interprets the goal of time as its own. The continuity of past and
future, under ITS direction&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; sound like control to you?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The continuity of past and future, under ITS direction&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and doesn&rsquo;t it sound like Paul was trying to be in
control the whole time everyone else was letting themselves be
stimulated out of their gourd with good stuff that was irrelevant.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The continuity of past and future, under ITS direction&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the ego&rsquo;s direction &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is the only purpose the ego perceives in time, and it closes
over the present so that no &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; gap in its OWN continuity can occur. ITS continuity,
then&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the continuity of insane thinking, insane preoccupation with
that which distracts you from reality &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; would KEEP you in time&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; so that someday you do ride around in an old people&rsquo;s
cart!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
ITS continuity &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; which you maintain, there&rsquo;s no ego apart from you
inflicting itself on you, you&rsquo;re maintaining it. It&rsquo;s a
habit, it&rsquo;s the orphan mentality.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
ITS continuity, then&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; if you reinforce it &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; would KEEP you in time, while the Holy Spirit would release you
FROM it. It is HIS interpretation &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; of the means of salvation which you must learn to accept, if
you would share His goal of salvation for you.

You, too, will interpret the function of time as you interpret yours.
</div>

As you interpret your function.

Well, hopefully Paul won&rsquo;t get caught up again in the righteous
function of relaying the truth to the world that he and I together are
sharing. He will be active in that function, but not as a righteous
function, not as something that he must do in a way that impresses
everyone else so that they will honor the truth that&rsquo;s being
shared. I mean, to not be &hellip; or to cancel a meeting twenty-four
hours before it happens for no good reason at all, except to jump on a
plane and go to Disneyland, is not something that deserves much respect,
is it?

And of course, he&rsquo;s not really interested in making a good
impression. And he really isn&rsquo;t. But you know what? The ego gets
in the other way around as I&rsquo;ve mentioned before. He doesn&rsquo;t
want to make a bad impression. And it&rsquo;s the same hook either way.
Someone who&rsquo;s caught up in making a good impression is caught in
the eddy just as much as the person who doesn&rsquo;t want to make a bad
impression.

When being the Christ, giving voice to the Voice for Truth, isn&rsquo;t
about looking good or looking bad, it&rsquo;s just about being in the
now. It&rsquo;s about being in the gap. And while any of you are being
in the gap, you help to pull others into it and make it easier for them
to find it. And to value it more than what their history is telling them
they are bound to experience in the future in which they must either
defend themselves against, or use to undo the faults that they&rsquo;ve
engaged in, in the past.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you accept your function in the world of time as healing, you will
emphasize ONLY the aspect of time in which healing can occur.
</div>

Well, you think Paul was interested in healing [chuckling] anybody? No,
they were all inflicting the irrelevant upon him. He wanted to protect
himself. Do something to make his future not as bad as it was going to
be if he continued to let himself be in this place&mdash;this activity
that had no Meaning to it at all.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you accept your function in the world of time as healing, you will
emphasize ONLY the aspect of time in which healing can occur. For
healing CANNOT be accomplished in the past, and MUST be accomplished in
the present to release the FUTURE. This interpretation ties the future
to the PRESENT&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and I&rsquo;m adding, instead of the past &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and extends the present rather than the past. But if you
interpret your function as destruction, you will lose sight of the
present and hold on to the past to ENSURE a destructive future. And time
WILL be as you interpret it, for of itself it is NOTHING.
</div>

When you find yourself beginning to feel incensed at others&rsquo; lack
of appreciation for what you value, and when you begin to see yourself
as put upon by people or by circumstances, where what you value is
constantly foiled, you may know that you have gotten caught in an eddy
of, well, I&rsquo;m going to call them, morbid thoughts swirling around
a central point of attention that you are bringing to it and which you
insist upon magnifying, which will ensure that you will be even more
obsessively committed to it and it&rsquo;s the whole miasma of confusion
that feels like intelligence that isn&rsquo;t real and that you
don&rsquo;t have to honor and that you can escape by watching a
bird-dropping fall, or watering a plant, or noticing a bloom, or daring
to genuinely feel happy when everything from your memory says,
&ldquo;you have no choice but to be miserable. You have no reasonable
choice but to feel miserable.&rdquo;

It&rsquo;s a lie. It&rsquo;s a mesmeric lie. It&rsquo;s a
self-perpetuating confusion that will exist only as long as you give
your attention to it and will vanish the moment you bring your attention
into the little gap between memory and imagination&mdash;the past and
the future.

[Addresses audience] I love you. I love you. I love you. I love you. I
love you. I love you. I love you. I love you. I love you and I love
everyone watching. This is not an advertisement: Get into the gap!

And I look forward to being with you next week.

[^1]: T12.3 Healing and Time

