---
title: Sep 9, 2006
ref: "T12.4 The Two Emotions"
alink: "/acim/text/12/chap1204/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

Welcome to another Saturday night fireside chat in orphanland. And, as
usual, I&rsquo;m going to say things that will not make you comfortable,
that will dispel mindsets, concepts that are bondages to you when you
are in an absolute state of freedom.

You are not who you think you are. None of you are who you think you
are.

Now, there&rsquo;s some unfinished business from last week. All of you
were able to grasp the meaning of the Text because you had such a
wonderful visual aid in Paul. All of you were able to see that at
various times you&rsquo;ve done the same thing. You have established a
goal, you have become committed to it, you have focused your attention
down upon it, and you have become obsessed with it to the exclusion of
your capacity to see anything around you clearly.

As I said, you could all see that from time to time you do this. But
there is a larger lesson here, a larger learning. And to simply spit it
out succinctly, you all&mdash;every single one of you, and there are no
exceptions, even if, on your spiritual path you have moments of
insight&mdash;you are, all of you, in an obsessive state twenty-four
hours a day, seven days a week, fifty-two weeks a year ad infinitum.

It isn&rsquo;t just, from time to time, you have become obsessed and
tiny. The very fact that you think you&rsquo;re listening to me from an
orphanage, [chuckling] from an orphan mindset or as a physical human
being who&rsquo;s learning more about what he truly is, you are doing
exactly what Paul did while he was at Disneyland.

Now, the fact that it was Disneyland, helped the illustration be obvious
to you. Because you know that what goes on in Disneyland, the Magic
Kingdom, is very different from what you&rsquo;re confronted by every
day of your life. It is a place of joy, it is a place of creativity, it
is a place of, well I will say, mind-bending originality. And the bottom
line purpose of it is pleasure. You can&rsquo;t say that about your
workplace. You can&rsquo;t say that about your home. But you can say it
about Disneyland.

Paul went to this place, carried with him his miserable mindset, took it
with him everywhere he went and lived in his own little world which was
not where he was &hellip; was not Disneyland. Oh, like all of you, he
had his moments of, you might say, enlightenment. He had his moments of
release from his mindset when something he was experiencing caught him
off-guard and a little bit of awe and joy spontaneously emerged and he
was caught in the now. But after that moment was over, he quickly
reinstituted his mindset.

You all, like Paul in Disneyland, are in the middle of the Kingdom of
Heaven right now. Now, did Disneyland have to change? Would Disneyland
have to change from what it is in order for Paul to be able to enjoy it?
No. Paul would have had to change, and I say would have had to, because
throughout the entire trip he didn&rsquo;t change. But Paul would have
to change in order to experience it for what it was.

And likewise, does anything you&rsquo;re experiencing right now: homes,
apartments, buildings, traffic, trees, sky, stars, planets, does any of
that have to change in order for you to be able to see it as the Kingdom
of Heaven? No. You have to change. And when you change, you will see
homes, apartments, traffic, trees, sky, stars, planets with entirely,
for lack of better words, new eyes. The fact is you will experience
them all with Vision.

Your eyes will still see basically what you&rsquo;re seeing. But that
is not going to be the source of your experience. Your Vision&mdash;how
can I put it?&mdash;Vision is a Mind innocent of preconceptions &hellip;
Vision is Mind innocent of agendas of its own &hellip; Vision is pure
Mind which is what each of you Are, right now. And everything that you
say you&rsquo;re experiencing out there is an experience going on in
this Mind. And every object you see, every thing you see is an idea
without material accompaniments. I mean by that, the drag of
gravity&mdash;the tendency to experience inertia&mdash;that keeps you
from shifting directions, being flexible, spontaneous. It is without the
tendency to run down, deteriorate, and finally die. That&rsquo;s what
ideas are minus the material accompaniments. That&rsquo;s what walls
are, that&rsquo;s what fingernails are, that&rsquo;s what skin is,
that&rsquo;s what flowers are.

So please understand, that to become enlightened, to Wake up, to come
back into your right Mind is not going to constitute a loss of
everything you&rsquo;re experiencing. It is going to constitute a loss
of a veil of misperceptions and tiny small mindedness and judgment and
commitment to ideas that aren&rsquo;t true, and commitment to [chuckle]
your impressions of each other instead of your direct experience of each
other. In other words, an absence of your commitment to the impression
you have of another. So that you might not have this veil between you
and your Brother, and can experience him as he Is.

Disneyland did not have to change the layout of the paths that people
walked on in order for Paul to become free of the idea that these paths
were there for the purpose of making people move where it was desired to
have them be as though they were just sheep being led, manipulated, and
in the process, Disneyland is making a great deal of money from these
followers&mdash;these sheep that could be led.

Mind you, that isn&rsquo;t what&rsquo;s going on at Disneyland, but that
is the mean-spirited perception that Paul or his orphan mindset created
and held between what it really was, what Disneyland really was, and
what Paul was experiencing.

You know what? Everyone that comes into your day, everyone you
encounter, as well as every thing, comes into your experience or is in
your experience for one purpose: to have its divinity recognized. Mind
you, their behavior might not seem divine. And the things that you see
may seem to be dying, a favorite rose-bush, or a treasured tree in your
yard might appear to be dying. It doesn&rsquo;t mean that the way you
are seeing things from your current limited perspective are asking to
have their divinity recognized. It means that in spite of the way
you&rsquo;re seeing them, they are already divine and the call is for
you to be willing to abandon what you are convinced about or convinced
of about those things.

Ultimate reality is facing you at this moment. Everything is a constant
opportunity to be willing to see more than what you&rsquo;re convinced
is there. More than what you are convinced is there. Why? Because what
is there is Real, is God Presencing Himself right there and the
opportunity is stimulating.

If there&rsquo;s one thing I mean to convey to you last week and this
week, it is that Reality is not something you will experience in a
doldrum of peace, a state of even inactivity. Reality is awesome! What
you are in the middle of is awesome, whether it&rsquo;s walls you think
are static and not alive, or whether its an orchid that you think is
alive. The substance of both is Love, living Love&mdash;loving. And in
its act of loving, is conveying all that it is, divinely, for you to
experience.

But no, you&rsquo;re so damn sure it&rsquo;s just plaster and nails or a
living organism, that you don&rsquo;t let go, you don&rsquo;t let
yourself stand ready to experience what you&rsquo;re not expecting,
because you are so sure of what&rsquo;s there. And your assurance of
what everything is, is what constitutes your being in a constant state
of denial of Reality. Not because you want to be denying it, but because
you don&rsquo;t know and you haven&rsquo;t thought that there was an
alternative.

You think you&rsquo;ve always been an orphan and that life is a state of
living in an orphanage where you have all of these mutual agreements
with each other: you know, the dangerous ones that all of them are,
because they&rsquo;re not any more dependable than you are, and
you&rsquo;d better protect yourself and you&rsquo;d better negotiate
with them carefully so as to ensure the greatest amount of peace. You
see. None of this is going on. But twenty-four/seven, this is the way
you are living.

Now, some of you orphans may have already trudged off back to your room
because what I&rsquo;m saying is so depressing&mdash;twenty-four/seven
uninterruptedly? &ldquo;I&rsquo;m not doing well? There&rsquo;s
something more I could be doing? I can&rsquo;t take this.&rdquo; Well,
that&rsquo;s the impression of being an orphan. That&rsquo;s doing the
impression [lowered sympathetic voice] of a poor mistreated,
misunderstood orphan &hellip; poor thing &hellip; bye-bye &hellip; when
you feel like coming out of your room, I&rsquo;ll still be here loving
you, [resumes normal voice] and pointing out to you that you are not who
you think you are and you are not what you think you are and the
orphanage you are in is not an orphanage and those who occupy it are not
orphans because it&rsquo;s all the Kingdom of Heaven, just as Disneyland
was always Disneyland, even though for five days Paul [resumes
sympathetic voice] went off to his room and hung out in the past, in his
head and forecast a miserable future in his head and occupied himself
with the tension and misery of such a mindset.

But you see, you have what it takes to grasp that Paul was out of his
mind. That what Paul was experiencing wasn&rsquo;t valid. It was
temporary insanity, we&rsquo;ll say. Likewise, it is very valuable for
you, if you are not experiencing in your day that which is awesome, to
assume that you might likewise, be experiencing a form of insanity,
which you are preoccupied with and committed to because it&rsquo;s hard
to believe that there&rsquo;s really anything else&mdash;really any
other way of seeing and experiencing everything.

Now, you could toy with the idea of exercising a little bit of positive
thinking even though I have pooh-pooed the power of positive thinking.
You could dare to say, &ldquo;Wow, if there really is so much more for
me to be experiencing, I&rsquo;m going to become a little bit
conscientious about getting into that little gap between the past and
the future&mdash;between memory and imagination.&rdquo; You see,
it&rsquo;s easy for you to see that imagination is not memory, and
memory is not imagination and so that they never could possibly connect.

Now, if everything and everyone in your experience every day is there
for the purpose of having its divinity recognized, then you could
reasonably say that you&rsquo;re here to be a healer. You are here to
engage in the healing of whatever is imperfect. Now, to ego orphans,
that sounds great. &ldquo;Oh, put up my shingle, I&rsquo;m a healer,
&lsquo;Hey fellow orphans, hey fellow orphans, I am dedicated to healing
you.&rsquo;&rdquo; No, remember Disneyland doesn&rsquo;t have to change
in order for Paul to experience it as it truly is and the Christ&rsquo;s
that are your Brothers, and the Kingdom of Heaven that you are actually
in, do not and does not have to change in order for you to experience it
without flawed perception.

So where does the change lie? It has to lie in your willingness to
abandon the way you&rsquo;re using your mind. And without getting
terribly psychologically complicated, the one thing, the one basic thing
that you&rsquo;re doing that constitutes a wrong use of your mind is
that you think you know what everything is.

Now, if that is false, that you do not know what everything really is,
then all you have to do is to bring one thing into practice: Curiosity,
a simple solution. But curiosity about what? To get the goods on your
Brother, to know the truth about what&rsquo;s really going on in his
mind or her mind, what they&rsquo;re really up to, like a psychic, so
that you understand the motivations that are causing him to behave so
poorly, or to engage in activities that are illegal so that you can be
one jump ahead and get&rsquo;em into prison because you&rsquo;ve been
able to psyche them out? No.

Remember, every one and every thing that comes into your experience,
comes in to your experience for the purpose of having its divinity
recognized. Why? Because all that is actually coming into your
experience is the Real Disneyland or is the Christ that your Brother is,
is the Kingdom of Heaven that is what really is. It invites you to see
it for what it is. And in your willingness to see it for what it is, you
dispel by your will to see the truth, your willingness to see beyond
your present sense of sight and leave your insanity behind.

But you&rsquo;ve got to remember, not only that you&rsquo;re here to
recognize the divinity of everything, but to actually engage in
attentiveness. Instead of getting back in your mind where you&rsquo;re
rehearsing all of the known facts about so and so or about such and
such. Known facts are memory. They are not facts. Facts are always
experienced from the little gap between the past and the future in the
now.

[addressing an audience member] So, you&rsquo;re leaving shortly to
visit an aging step-mother, are you? And are you going to see her in
&ldquo;an old-folks home&rdquo; with plaster wall boards and paint, dead
inanimate matter put together in an attractive way? Or are you going to
move through the Kingdom of Heaven to see someone who is the perfect
expression of God, with an insistence not to be sidetracked by your
memory or even hearsay about the current situation from other orphans
who also do not know to look for the purpose to recognize the divinity
of a thing? Your trip can be transformational for you and inspiring for
you and likewise for her, if you will be willing to let something more
in than what you&rsquo;re confident about already, and what the past has
proven to you.

Each of you, if you&rsquo;re going to work, or to the grocery store or
into the kitchen to cook, can ask yourself if all of the feelings and
ideas you had associated with that activity is what&rsquo;s really going
on, or is there something awesomely more significant there. You&rsquo;re
going to, in effect, have to express some intent to Wake up. It&rsquo;s
so very easy to just continue down the road that memory has laid before
you, predicted for you, because that&rsquo;s what everyone does and you
don&rsquo;t really know of many people who are doing it differently and
most of all, it&rsquo;s your habit. And even more than that, you think
that its more than a habit, you think that it simply is life. And
it&rsquo;s not! It&rsquo;s not! It&rsquo;s just a mindset&mdash;a frame
of reference like a pair of glasses, colored glasses that lets you see
only one color&mdash;even though the full spectrum is out in front of
you to be experienced.

So remember, you could identify with what Paul went through, because
from time to time, you have become that focused as an orphan, I&rsquo;ll
say. And then from time to time, you&rsquo;ve been more flexible and
more open. But what I want you to understand is, that whether
you&rsquo;re sleeping at night or awake in the daytime, you are in a
mindset, you are in an eddy at the edge of the river, circling around
constantly rehearsing what has been before, where you have been before.

I want to point out something though, this movement in a circular motion
in the eddy, you aren&rsquo;t even responsible for. Whatever motion
there is, is the effect of the river. And so you, even when you&rsquo;re
in the eddy, are not free of or independent of or separated from the
movement of Being&mdash;Reality.

Please, let there be growing dissatisfaction with repetition. Let there
be growing dissatisfaction with the awful perceptions you&rsquo;re
having about your life and your world. I know, I said that when you look
out at the Kingdom of Heaven, it doesn&rsquo;t seem to report back to
you that it&rsquo;s the Kingdom of Heaven. And you turn on the news and
it&rsquo;s obvious to you it&rsquo;s not the Kingdom of Heaven and the
news is distressing. Well, what do you expect? It&rsquo;s news about
orphans, put on by orphans who lack the Vision necessary&mdash;the
Vision that I was talking about that has answers. And for you to listen
to what&rsquo;s coming over the media, the news media, and believe it
and get upset or depressed because of it, is not the gift built into you
that you have to give.

Don&rsquo;t get upset or depressed about it. As I&rsquo;ve said before,
put a thing across the top of your TV that says, &ldquo;Today&rsquo;s
best perception of Reality,&rdquo; so that you&rsquo;re reminded this
isn&rsquo;t Reality, it&rsquo;s just a perception. Just like
Paul&rsquo;s perception that he kept in place between him and the
experience of Disneyland.

Whatever is coming across that tube or that radio or that newspaper or
that magazine, is an invitation for Vision, which it is your function to
be providing because of who you really Are. But you&rsquo;re going to
have to start acting like what you&rsquo;re really are and stop behaving
and doing the impression of an orphan.

Great statesmen throughout history have changed the course of history it
appears, because they didn&rsquo;t accept the status quo and they
didn&rsquo;t believe the stories that those in power and distress were
telling&mdash;the sob story, the sad story about the injustice between
this country and that country and their behavior and their ideologies
and on and on and on. They had a Vision. And because they were
diplomats, they found a way to express the Vision in which those who
were in distress could see a new way.

What&rsquo;s needed today is Vision&mdash;inspired perspective that
blesses everyone. Well, how can inspired perspective bless everyone if
that perspective doesn&rsquo;t arise out of one&mdash;meaning any and
all of you&mdash;who dared to step off the wheel of history, abandon the
past and the future and be present in the &ldquo;now&rdquo; with the
desire to recognize the divinity, the Reality, the Kingdom of Heaven
that is actually going on.

&ldquo;Well, the world is going to hell in a handbasket. And what can I
do? I can&rsquo;t do anything.&rdquo; Poor little orphan, tch, tch, tch,
no power to do anything. I guess you&rsquo;re just gonna have to be sad
in your orphanage, miserable and die out your days until the bitter end
so that by dying you can prove that you actually lived. It is insane,
isn&rsquo;t it? Yes, just as Paul was the only one who could do anything
to change his experience at Disneyland, each one of you is the only one
who can do anything to change your experience of the world. And you have
the capacity built in. It&rsquo;s already established as your function.
But as I&rsquo;ve said, it&rsquo;s going to mean that you&rsquo;re going
to have to use a little bit of self-discipline and not just willy-nilly,
follow like sheep along with that which all of the other orphans are
putting forth, and which they don&rsquo;t have the capacity to see
beyond.

Everything we&rsquo;re talking about is full of promise, not false
promises, but real promise. Because everything is uncovering to you
capacities, they&rsquo;re not even latent capacities, they&rsquo;re full
blown capacities which at the moment you&rsquo;re consciously and
conscientiously choosing not to employ. Why? Because you are consciously
and conscientiously employing the orphan mindset. Because at the bottom
line, in one way or another, you really do think that you came from, let
us say, a physical explosion marking the beginning of physical
development: when a sperm entered an egg and conception occurred. A
physical thing occurred. And therefore, you can&rsquo;t possibly have
any other source and therefore, you must of necessity be a lonely
isolated physical entity sprung up in a physical world that has nothing
to do with you and which you must cope with.

That&rsquo;s the story. That&rsquo;s the myth. That is the myth. Reality
and the Kingdom of Heaven, which everyone thinks is a wonderful and
potentially real myth that will be fully realized after you die,
that&rsquo;s where the flaw is. That&rsquo;s where everything&rsquo;s a
hundred and eighty degrees out of sync. And that is where what is not
true is taken as truth. And that is where insanity sets in. And you
don&rsquo;t need to be committed to insanity. You don&rsquo;t have to
be. No-one is holding you to it.

I&rsquo;ve said so many times: Be willing to look at everything with
innocent eyes. Well, [chuckle] don&rsquo;t just be willing to do it. Do
it! Because you deserve not to be suffering from ignorance.

Let&rsquo;s go into the Book. The new section is entitled:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*The Two Emotions*[^1]

We have said that you have but two emotions, love and fear.
</div>

Love is what spontaneously flows from you when you&rsquo;re in the gap.
When you&rsquo;re in time, fear is what you experience and what you
broadcast, what flows from you. Paul&rsquo;s miserable experience was a
result of fear and fear was secondary to his commitment to his own
definitions of how things work and what is important and what
isn&rsquo;t important. And the minute he or any of you gets caught in
that mental trap, fear emerges and it governs behavior.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
We have said that you have but two emotions, love and fear. One is
changeless but continually exchanged, being offered BY the eternal TO
the eternal.
</div>

If everyone and everything comes into your experience for the purpose of
having its divinity recognized, then your function is to recognize it.
And so you extend that recognition. And the extension of that
recognition is the act of Love. The Love is changeless but it gets
exchanged between that which is eternal and that which is eternal.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In this exchange it is extended, for it INCREASES as it is given.
</div>

In exactly the same way, that in a large crowd, each member of which has
a candle, if one person lights his candle with it, he can light the
candle of the person next to him without his candle going out.
It&rsquo;s the same light. It&rsquo;s the same energy. And by exchange,
it is extended and increased.

So when you hear that everything about God is unchanging, and therefore,
any kind of change that you&rsquo;re experiencing must be an illusion,
recognize the falsity of that thought. Because through the exchange of
that which is changeless, it is extended and it increases. And the
increase can best be described by the word, Movement.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; it INCREASES as it is given.
</div>

Now that&rsquo;s the description of one of the two emotions.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The other has many forms&hellip;
</div>

And you&rsquo;ll recognize this as you remember Paul&rsquo;s experience.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The other has many forms, for the content of individual illusions
differs greatly. Yet they have one thing in common; they are all insane.
</div>

You see. Paul can be obsessed with things associated with his work. You
can be obsessed with entirely different things. But &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; they have one thing in common; they are all insane. They are
made of sights which are NOT seen and sounds which are NOT heard.
</div>

Do you think while Paul was at Disneyland, the sites that he saw were
the actual events, or his biased perception of them? Or the sounds that
he heard, were the sounds really happening? He even got to the point
when there were live bands playing for the enjoyment of everyone, to
have judgments about the kind of music that was being allowed in
Disneyland. It was not enjoyable to him. He was not hearing the sounds
that were being made.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
They are made of sites which are NOT seen and sounds which are NOT
heard. They make up a private world which CANNOT be shared. For they are
meaningful ONLY to their maker, and so they have no meaning at all.
</div>

You see, in order for something to have meaning, it has to be something
that not only can be shared, but is shared. Can&rsquo;t share if
you&rsquo;re insistent upon being absolutely private&mdash;solitary,
separate, different.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In this world their maker moves alone&hellip;
</div>

[chuckling] And believe it or not, Paul was surrounded by thousands of
people for four days, not to mention his wife and family. And yet he
wasn&rsquo;t with them. And he was alone. Literally, the experience was
a lonely experience.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In this world &hellip;
</div>

The one we make up&mdash;you make up &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; their maker moves alone&hellip;
</div>

Why?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; for only he perceives them.

Each one peoples his world with figures from his individual past&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in other words, memory &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and it is because of this that private worlds DO differ.
</div>

Each of your memories, even of the same events, are different. Why?
Because you depend upon not a direct experience of the event, but an
impression you got from the event. [whew!]

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet the figures that he sees were NEVER real, for they are made up only
of HIS reactions to his brothers, and do not include their reactions to
HIM. Therefore he does not SEE that he made them, and that they are not
whole.
</div>

What makes them not whole? The fact that there&rsquo;s not any
connection between the one perceiving them and the one perceived.
That&rsquo;s why its not whole. There isn&rsquo;t wholeness without
connection. And there cannot be connection between orphans because
orphans are holding themselves as uniquely alone and it is absolutely
necessary for their aloneness to be unaltered else every effort they
make, or every effort he makes to prove his existence will not be pure
and therefore will not be absolutely valid.

If any part of one&rsquo;s worth is gathered from some other source,
then his worth is not pure and he cannot have succeeded in demonstrating
that by his own effort that he could create himself and prove his
existence.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Therefore he does not SEE that he made them, and that they are not
whole. For these figures have no witnesses, being perceived in one
separate mind only.

It is THROUGH these strange and shadowy figures that the insane relate
to their insane world. For they see ONLY those who remind them of these
images, and it is to THEM &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the images &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; that they relate. Thus do they communicate &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; ha-ha &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; with those who are not there, and it is THEY who answer them.
</div>

You perceive someone &hellip; Paul perceived members of his family at
Disneyland as those who aught to be able to communicate with him on the
level and in the nature of his distorted mindset because it seems so
obviously reasonable to him. And so, when he talked to them about the
meaninglessness of being where they were, and they couldn&rsquo;t agree,
and even extended Vision of what was really present to be experienced,
he did not hear that. He heard himself speaking back saying, &ldquo;You
are misunderstood Paul, you are not appreciated Paul. They do not
understand the gravity of the disobedience you&rsquo;re engaging in by
not honoring the work that you&rsquo;re doing.&rdquo; And following
along with them because they were tired and needed a break. You see. So
no matter what was said, he heard what he wanted to hear.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Thus do they communicate with those who are not there, and it is THEY
who answer them. And no-one hears their answer save him who called upon
them, and he alone believes they answered him. Projection makes
perception and you CANNOT see beyond it.
</div>

As long as you&rsquo;re operating on the basis of your definitions of
everything&mdash;your best definitions of everything, and you are not
allowing for there to be more, and you&rsquo;re not curious for there to
be a larger picture to experience and to be open to it&mdash;you will
see what you&rsquo;re projecting and you will not be able to see beyond
it. You simply won&rsquo;t.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Again and again have men attacked each other because they saw in them a
shadow figure in their OWN private world. And thus it is that you MUST
attack yourself first, for what you attack is NOT in others.
</div>

Paul&rsquo;s apparent judgment upon Disneyland itself, and all of the
beauty there and all of the creativity there and upon those who were
with him, were really an attack on his undeviating choice as to how to
see them, how he chose to see them. And so he was attacking himself, not
them. He wasn&rsquo;t even in touch with them. He had no capacity in his
moment of insanity to even be able to appreciate the joy that they were
experiencing and the sense of family and brotherhood and togetherness
that they were experiencing. He wasn&rsquo;t in their world at all. And
his insistence upon sticking to his guns and judging them, constituted a
judgment upon himself which is what made his misery. It is what makes
your misery.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And thus it is that you MUST attack yourself first, for what you attack
is NOT in others. Its only reality is in your OWN mind, and by attacking
others you are literally attacking what is NOT THERE.
</div>

Now what this world needs now is you willing to have and desiring to
have Vision, which can be experienced only in the now, in the gap
between past, memory (and of course its your memory) and future,
imagination (and of course is your imagination). So its entirely a head
trip, its entirely private and its entirely yours. And you&rsquo;ve got
to break the isolation in order to become free of your insanity, in
order to become free of your miserable and demoralizing imaginations.

I&rsquo;m sorry orphans, but I must say this.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The delusional can be very destructive, for they do not recognize that
they have condemned THEMSELVES.
</div>

You hold yourselves in a miserable state. A state of birth, growth,
aging, death, struggle, and on and on. You hold yourself in that
apparent process because you are not willing to get into the gap and
dare to look with innocence. In other words, without
preconceptions&mdash;without the past and without an anticipation of the
future. A capacity each of you, perfectly, already has.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The delusional can be very destructive&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and indeed Paul&rsquo;s behavior was not pleasant for those
around him &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; for they do not recognize that they have condemned THEMSELVES.
They do not wish to die, yet they will not let condemnation GO. And so
they separate into their private worlds, where everything is disordered,
and where what is within appears to be without. Yet what IS within they
do not see&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in other words what&rsquo;s really within &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; they do not see, for the REALITY of their brothers they CANNOT
see.
</div>

And why can they cannot see the reality of their brothers? Because
they&rsquo;ve not known or have forgotten that it&rsquo;s their function
to recognize the divinity of everything that comes into their
experience. And so rather than engaging in
acknowledging&mdash;recognizing a Brother&rsquo;s divinity, they are
engaging in condemnation of them. Why? Because they remind them of
something from their past that they&rsquo;re stuck on. And so they
respond from their memory, totally avoiding the opportunity for
connection in the now.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have but two emotions, yet in your private world you react to each
of them as though it were the OTHER. For love cannot abide in a world
apart, where when it comes it is not recognized. If you see your own
hatred &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; if you see your own hatred, if you see your own distress, if
you see your own bitterness &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; AS your brother&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; or as your world &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you are not seeing HIM. Everyone draws nigh unto what he loves,
and recoils from what he fears. And you react with fear to love, and
draw away from it.
</div>

Yeah, Paul sure did. Susan was very loving, firm at times, objecting to
his behavior, but nevertheless, truly loving. His daughter and his
grandson of course, were constantly being present in a loving fashion
and inviting participation in the fun. And yet he reacted with fear to
it. Which means that he reacted to it based upon the fear he was
embodying because he was choosing not to be present, and to rehearse and
stick with the dilemma that his past that was presenting, of his falling
short of everything that he needed to be doing. And couple that with the
fact that his absence from attending to that was going to cause for him
a more horrible future, he responded to the love with fear.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And you react with fear to love, and draw away from it.
</div>

Oh yes, and you don&rsquo;t know how many times he went out on that
balcony and withdrew from the group to have his private time of misery
in which he did approach me, he did approach me, but he wanted to know
how to correct the problem of his having to be somewhere that
didn&rsquo;t fit his preconception of what was principled, orderly,
productive and truly Meaningful.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet fear ATTRACTS you, and believing it IS love, you call it to
yourself.
</div>

Not really so hard to understand. Paul embodied it perfectly. Paul felt,
with all righteousness, that his not attending to the important aspects
of the work he was doing with me, which was causing him to be fearful,
was an act of love because he was giving honor to that which no-one else
was. You see? So he saw that his dilemma was a result of real love that
he was intent upon expressing, wanting to express, wanting to share.
That&rsquo;s how it can happen.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet fear ATTRACTS you, and believing it IS love, you call it to
yourself. Your private world is filled with the figures of fear you have
invited into it, and all the love your brothers offer you YOU DO NOT
SEE. As you look with open eyes upon your world, it MUST occur to you
that you have withdrawn into insanity.
</div>

Now there really is no good place to interrupt this, and so we will
interrupt it now and continue next week.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As you look with open eyes upon your world, it MUST occur to you that
you have withdrawn into insanity.
</div>

Now, such words again cannot appropriately be used to judge yourself,
condemn yourself, or depress yourself. You haven&rsquo;t known you were
doing it. And you haven&rsquo;t known that there truly is an
alternative. And even though we&rsquo;ve been talking for many, many
months about alternatives, it isn&rsquo;t until now that it could be
brought into clearer focus for you so that you could see just exactly
how you do it. But once you know that there is an alternative, and once
you could see that hey, yes, you really do do this, until that happens,
you&rsquo;re not in a position to change your mind.

And so this information is here to confront you with the fact that you
can change your mind and have a new experience. Not because your mind is
powerful enough to make new experiences for you, but because your mind,
not used incorrectly, is a mind that&rsquo;s in the gap. And the gap is
part of infinity, is part of eternity&mdash;the wholeness of you. And so
you have a point of escape. It&rsquo;s wonderful. It&rsquo;s simple.
There is a point of escape from dreams, from illusions, and it&rsquo;s
in the now. And the act that you are called upon in order to make that 
escape in the now, is to remember that everyone and every thing comes
into your experience for the purpose of what? Your making a gift. Ah-h
breaking the isolation. Making the gift of acknowledging the divinity
of that thing. You do everything else. You always have been doing
everything else instead of that. Because the simplicity of it
hasn&rsquo;t been made apparent to you.

So, I&rsquo;m not saying to everybody: &ldquo;The orphanage you&rsquo;re
in is an evil place and you orphans are evil things.&rdquo; What
I&rsquo;m saying is, that the building you are calling an orphanage, and
the individuals you are that you are calling orphans, are Christs and
the Kingdom of Heaven&mdash;part of the Kingdom of Heaven. It&rsquo;s
all the Glory of God&mdash;the awesomeness of Creation that you&rsquo;ve
missing the experience of because you&rsquo;ve been so sure of what
everything is.

Now, your assurance is being weakened. And as it is weakened,
light-bulbs are going to start going on. Insights are going to start
occurring. And instead of attempting to change Disneyland, instead of
trying to change everything you&rsquo;re experiencing&mdash;the Kingdom
of Heaven in other words&mdash;you will catch the mental habit of
insanity and let it be dispelled by bringing your attention into the now
with the conscious desire to recognize the divinity of each and every
thing. Make the gift of the willingness to join in acknowledgement of
what is true, for your brother and for every thing in your world.

[addressing an audience member] You have a really wonderful trip, one
that you weren&rsquo;t anticipating going on. And all of you have a
truly wonderful week by letting something more than what you&rsquo;ve
been anticipating in.

And I look forward to being with you all next week.

[^1]: T12.4 The Two Emotions

