---
title: Oct 7, 2006
ref: "T12.5 Finding the Present"
alink: "/acim/text/12/chap1205/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

And welcome to another Saturday night chat in orphanland&mdash;Saturday
night fireside chat. Or, welcome to another Saturday night where there
are no orphans and all who are gathered and all who are listening are
Christs. And there are no orphanages, there are just structures of love
that are exquisite manifestations of Creation&mdash;this moment&rsquo;s
creation. And instead of orphanland, it&rsquo;s the Kingdom of Heaven.
Two different ways of describing one event.

And you must remember, that although I&rsquo;ve been talking at some
length about being orphans, it has always been linked with the
mind&mdash;an orphan mindset, a mental bias applied to the mind. So that
you experience being conscious differently than you would find yourself
experiencing everything if you were identifying yourself right at this
moment as the Presence of God&mdash;God manifesting Himself right now,
right where you are. And that literally, the only correct definition of
you each is the Christ&mdash;the full blown, fully manifested Christ at
this moment.

Now that&rsquo;s the truth about you. It&rsquo;s because you don&rsquo;t
believe it&rsquo;s the truth about you, that when I describe the nature
of the beliefs that are to the contrary, that I must give them a
practical description. And I do that by describing an orphan. It&rsquo;s
just a behavior pattern&mdash;physical behavior pattern and mental
pattern. It is a pattern applied to something that is patternless.

Mind isn&rsquo;t patterned. It isn&rsquo;t something to be
compartmentalized and categorized and filed in this order and that order
and another order so as to present some structure, some characteristics.

But you know what? As long as you think your mind is for thinking, that
is what you will do. Because you will have thoughts, you will analyze
the thoughts, you will validate the thoughts, you will evaluate the
thoughts, you will categorize them and file them accordingly.

All of this is an artificial overlay on what your mind is. Because your
mind is, literally, the light that illuminates all that Is and is
thereby, the conscious awareness of all that Is. The function of your
mind is to be aware and not do anything with the awareness&mdash;to be
aware in full embrace of what&rsquo;s being experienced.

If you&rsquo;re on a trip and you come around the bend in the road to a
site that is unexpected and awesome, all you can do is gasp &hellip;
just ah-h-h. You don&rsquo;t know what to think. And you&rsquo;re not
required to think anything. The point is to be fully present with
what&rsquo;s being experienced as you are when you&rsquo;re surprised
beyond thinking.

Now, we read last week &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You who know not what you do CAN learn what insanity is, and look beyond
it.[^1]
</div>

Does anybody know what that means?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You who know not what you do CAN learn what insanity is, and look beyond
it.
</div>

If I were to ask you to answer me right now, what is insanity? Do you
have the answer on the tip of your tongue? It is a simple answer.
Insanity is whenever your mind is engaged in an activity all by itself.

Let me ask you something: If you&rsquo;re married or in a partnership of
any sort, but I&rsquo;m speaking more specifically about marriage where
there is a vow of commitment that is supposed to come from the heart
which, we&rsquo;ll say, isn&rsquo;t always the case in a business
relationship. If you are in a relationship, in a marriage, and one of
the partners in the marriage is constantly engaging in activities
without clueing his partner in about it&mdash;doing things without
consulting or discussing what he is going to do, if he is acting quite
independently without giving thought to or about his partner or what
effects his actions will have&mdash;how would you describe that
relationship? You would have to describe it as no relationship.

Now, whether you have known it or not, whether you have been taught it
or not, whether you have believed it or not, you are and always have
been part of a partnership. You have had no capacity to exist, act, or
do anything all by yourself. But like a partner in a marriage who does
not take into consideration the other partner, you can forget that not
only is there something called for that&rsquo;s missing from the
relationship for the other partner, there&rsquo;s also something called
for that has its effect upon you, or the absence of it has its effect on
you. What&rsquo;s missing is the joining.

Now, all that we&rsquo;ve been talking about, basically, is the call to
break the isolation. Over and over and over in many, many, many ways,
this need has been described. And the antics you go through to act
independently and to justify the independence, have been uncovered and
shown for what they are, as that which keeps you from experiencing a
wholeness&mdash;a union that already exists and which defines you.

Again, insanity is when your mind is engaged in any activity all by
itself with not no thought for, care for, or awareness of
another&mdash;another whom you have an obligation to be relating to. Now
whether you want to call it God or the Holy Spirit, the fact is, that
the Answer to the human condition, the Answer to every single problem
you&rsquo;re having, lies in breaking this isolation and reuniting,
re-embracing with that which constitutes the Source, the energy, the
vitality, the very movement of you, of your existence, of your being,
without which you could not exist at all.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You who know not what you do CAN learn what insanity is, and look beyond
it.
</div>

Well, if you didn&rsquo;t know before, you now know what insanity is.
And so now, you can look beyond it. And you&rsquo;re not confused and
you&rsquo;re not inclined, or you will not be inclined to think it that
it&rsquo;s a process, a complicated process, a complicated intellectual
process that you, through the skillful use of your mind, can succeed at
bringing to its ultimate conclusion.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is given you to learn how to DENY insanity&hellip;
</div>

Now last week when we read this, you could have said, &ldquo;Hm-m
&hellip; &lsquo;It is given you to learn how to DENY insanity&hellip;
&rsquo; Oh, it is? Uh, well I wonder when that happens? Uh &hellip;
&lsquo;It is given you,&rsquo; &hellip; Okay, well that must mean I
don&rsquo;t have to figure it out. Maybe then it comes from God. So I
wonder when God will give it?&rdquo; Well, &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is given you to learn how to DENY insanity&hellip;
</div>

The way to deny insanity is to stop attempting to do anything
independently. Nothing to wait for. Don&rsquo;t have to wait for the
waters to move so that you can step into it and be healed. No need to
wait for the beneficent Hand of God to come down and touch you and be
ready for it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is given you to learn how to DENY insanity&hellip;
</div>

Again, which is, to abandon attempting to do anything all by yourself.
And what? And come forth from your private world. In other words,
abandon the state of independence, which is the meaning of insanity. And
come forth from your private world. How? In peace. And as I said, with
Grace.

Please, these words are more than intellectual tidbits stimulating
little pieces of truth that make light bulbs go on in your mind and give
you a momentary high. These words here, are the basis for each one of
you to pay attention to how you&rsquo;re using your mind every single
day in a way you&rsquo;ve never done before. And when you hear these
things, you need to ask, &ldquo;Well, if it&rsquo;s given me to learn
how to deny insanity, when is that going to happen?&rdquo; &hellip; if
you&rsquo;re not already aware. And then listen. And if you say,
&ldquo;Well, I haven&rsquo;t gotten in touch with my Guide yet, but oh
boy, all of this information is just marvelous! Just marvelous!
It&rsquo;s making a terrific difference in my life.&rdquo;

If you&rsquo;re not in touch with your Guide yet, keep asking the
question. Why? Because, the fact is, that you are the Christ right now
in the middle of the Kingdom of Heaven, dreaming, believing, insanely
calculating a story of not being in the middle of the Kingdom of Heaven
and not being the Christ.

We&rsquo;re talking about you waking up. Now mind you, not you waking up
out of the world and flashing out, we&rsquo;re talking about you, here,
waking up, having a sudden shift of perception&mdash;a new way of
seeing.

Do you want to wake up or not? How much longer do you want to, you know,
suffer your way through? Why do it if you have an alternative? Why
suffer through it if you have an alternative? And if the alternative is
your Birthright and represents you in your true Mind and you in your
true stature, then that&rsquo;s all the justification you need for going
ahead and being more diligent each day, each moment to remember,
&ldquo;I don&rsquo;t want to look at this by myself!&rdquo;

The Christ&hellip; we read last week &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; sees God&rsquo;s guiltless Son within you, shining in perfect
radiance which is undimmed by your dreams.
</div>

&hellip; insanities &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And this YOU will see as you look with Him&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; for what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; for His vision is His gift of love to you, given Him of the
Father FOR you.
</div>

Right now the Christ in you is the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit is
nothing more than your right Mind. And its whole function is to reveal
to you and remind you of what you really Are. And every Son of God who
is Awake, has that very same function relative to each and every one of
you.

Ask: &ldquo;I wish to look through your Vision. I wish to see everything
through your Vision.&rdquo;

Well, what does that mean? It means you have to defer to Someone
else&rsquo;s point of view. Someone else&rsquo;s perspective. A
perspective other than the one you have been doggedly employing for
eons. That&rsquo;s all. But you have to persist. Because as you persist
in a goal, the goal becomes more unified. Do it just because. Just
because it&rsquo;s worth it to find out if there really is a different
way to see everything. Because the way you&rsquo;re seeing it at the
moment, even though it is semi-tolerable, is not a heck of a lot of fun.

This book goes back and forth between describing the insanity and
describing the Answer. And in that sense, once you begin to see that,
the book almost becomes monotonous, almost predictable. But each time it
does it, it does it from a little bit different vantage point, and so
there&rsquo;s a little bit of further intellectual clarification. And
it&rsquo;s like, &ldquo;Oh boy, it&rsquo;s gonna be interesting to see
what comes on the next page, and on the next page and in the next
Chapter &hellip; &rdquo; And nobody stops and says, &ldquo;I wish to see
everything through Your Vision. I wish to defer all of my perceptions to
Your Vision.&rdquo; And then stay with that intent as persistently as
you can, whether you see immediate transformation or not. Because
remember, that the persistence in a goal unifies the goal&mdash;unifies
the intent. I don&rsquo;t like this word, but I will say,
&ldquo;solidifies&rdquo; the intent, strengthens the intent, establishes
it as having staying power&mdash;not wobbly, not weak, not easily
affected by circumstances.

As long as you enjoy further intellectual stimulation in having insanity
disclosed a little bit more clearly from a different angle,
there&rsquo;s a lot more for us to go through and have that satisfied.
But please don&rsquo;t think that&rsquo;s the goal. It is not necessary
to understand anything in order to Wake up, except that you have
apparently two choices: the choice to think you&rsquo;re an orphan, or
the choice to abandon orphanhood and join, not only with your Maker, but
with your Brothers and Sisters and all of Creation. And you can do that
without reading another page in this book. No, this is not our last ACIM
Study Group.

Let&rsquo;s go into the book.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*Finding the Present*

To perceive truly is to be aware of ALL reality through the awareness of
your own.
</div>

Well, that&rsquo;s nice &hellip; hm-m &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To perceive truly is to be aware of ALL reality through the awareness of
your own.
</div>

Simple statement, but one that in order to be experienced, you will find
is an all consuming activity. How do you have the awareness of your own
reality? Yeah, monotonous&mdash;by abandoning your orphanhood, by
consciously joining with the Holy Spirit. By consciously joining with
One who is Awake&mdash;your Guide. You must go to that Place, that
Source, you must be serious enough about abandoning all of your thinking
and all of your preconceptions long enough to hear a different Point of
View. And let that different Point of View in. Because until you let
that different Point of View in, there is no opportunity for learning.
Nothing can change if there&rsquo;s nothing present that can alter the
status quo.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To perceive truly is to be aware of ALL reality through the awareness of
your own. But for this NO illusions can rise to meet your sight, for ALL
reality leaves no room for ANY error. This means that you perceive a
brother only as you see him NOW.
</div>

Mind you, this does not mean that the way you&rsquo;re seeing your
Brother now, is a true experience of him. You will perceive your Brother
correctly&mdash;truly&mdash;only as you see him, and I&rsquo;m going to
add the words, in the now, in the present, in the gap between memory and
imagination.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
His past has NO reality in the present, and you CANNOT see it. YOUR past
reactions to him are ALSO not there&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in the present &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and if it is to them that you react NOW, you see but an image
of him which you made and cherish INSTEAD of him.
</div>

Now, it is very difficult for you to see your Brother or anything, with
innocent eyes. In other words, free of the past and free of your
imagination. That&rsquo;s why you must ask for help:

&ldquo;Help me see my Brother through Your Vision, which is Your Gift to
me.&rdquo;

And persist in this. Do it over and over. Because you want to become
free of any bullshit baggage that you&rsquo;re carrying along with you
that&rsquo;s standing in the way of your being able to be
present&mdash;conscious in the now. And you want to be free of what
it&rsquo;s not your Birthright to be carrying around and to be foiled by
in your divine purpose.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In your questioning of illusions, ask yourself if it is REALLY sane to
perceive what WAS NOW.
</div>

Now most of you cannot really agree with that statement. Even though
intellectually you can say, &ldquo;Well, yeah &hellip; I guess I aught
to ask.&rdquo; You believe that it really is sane to perceive what was,
now. Else you&rsquo;re going to be taken for the same ride that you were
taken for before. And you will end up being abused, just as you were
before, because if you are present in the now with that person without
bringing memory forward, you will not know that you had better be
defended.

Or, if you had a bad financial dealing and it&rsquo;s necessary to have
a new one, you feel that it is absolutely essential for you to go into
the new dealing with all that you learned from the last one. And
fortunately, you made a list of all the things you should&rsquo;ve done
that you didn&rsquo;t do so you can be sure you do them this time. And
yet this time, you may not be dealing with anyone unscrupulous at all,
and all of this practice of preparedness out of the past will not only
have been useless, but it will likely create in the mind of the person
you are working with, who this time is benign, of being off-putting, of
being unfriendly and causing that one to wonder just how trust-worthy
you are and bring elements into what would have been a perfect
negotiation that didn&rsquo;t need to be there.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In your questioning of illusions, ask yourself if it is REALLY sane to
perceive what WAS NOW. If you remember the past as you look upon your
brother, you will be unable to perceive the reality that is NOW.
</div>

You see, when you&rsquo;re in this whole mind-set, you could be with a
real sharpster, engaging in this negotiation, who is able to recognize
your feeling of vulnerability, and while you are scrambling to secure
that vulnerability, he is able to pull off another aspect of the
negotiation&mdash;pull the wool right over your eyes because
you&rsquo;re not conscious enough to know it, because you&rsquo;re so
preoccupied with putting into play what you learned before.

But, if you&rsquo;re present in the now, what does that mean? Being
present in the now. There&rsquo;s only one way to be present in the now,
and that&rsquo;s to be joined. If you are not joined with the Father, or
the Holy Spirit, or your Guide, you&rsquo;re not in the now, because
you&rsquo;re not joined. Isolation is the absence and the apparent
incapacity to be present in the now.

If you are in the now, you will be joined. If you are joined, and you
have said, by virtue of wanting to be being joined, &ldquo;I wish to see
through Your Vision, which is your gift to me,&rdquo; you will be
absolutely pertinent in every aspect of the negotiation whether you have
any understanding at all of all of the potential pitfalls. And you will
not find yourself in the position of having been abused and you will not
have behaved in a way that confirms the other one to be the abuser that
he so smartly thought he wanted to be. A win-win solution. In other
words, a unified solution. A unified event.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You consider it &ldquo;natural&rdquo; to use your past experience as the
reference point from which to JUDGE the present.
</div>

I would say, you consider it utterly natural to use the past as the
reference point from which to judge the present.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet this is UNNATURAL because it is delusional.
</div>

At this moment, does that make any sense &hellip; I hope? It makes no
sense to engage in any activity at any moment without being conscious in
that moment. Doesn&rsquo;t that make sense? If you&rsquo;re not being
conscious in that moment, then you are being from an unconscious state
that&rsquo;s filled with nothing but memory as well as imagination.
It&rsquo;s disconnected. It&rsquo;s not connected.

Bringing the past forward by means of memory is not the only solution to
your problems. The only solution to your problems is learning to be
conscious of the now, in the now. The solution is consciousness. Not a
rehash of old tapes.  Get it? It&rsquo;s so simple. Intelligence is
utterly clear in the awareness that, to be nothing other than conscious
in the now, is the only way to be. It is the way you were created to be.
It&rsquo;s the way things really work.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you have learned to look upon everyone with NO REFERENCE AT ALL to
the past, either his or yours as you perceived it, you will be able
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; to learn &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; have a new experience &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you will be able to learn from what you see NOW.
</div>

Illuminated by what you see now. Because you will see God in what
you&rsquo;re viewing. You will see order in what you&rsquo;re looking
at. You will know how to be appropriately, relative to what is evolving
even if those you&rsquo;re dealing with are still insisting on being
orphans. It doesn&rsquo;t matter what they&rsquo;re insisting on being.
It matters whether you are choosing to be conscious or unconscious.
Unconscious like them. Unfortunately you&rsquo;re more experienced at
being unconscious like them, and you already have your rules established
at how to make the best of a situation where everyone is bumbling around
in the dark with no real sense of what&rsquo;s really going on.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you have learned to look upon everyone with NO REFERENCE AT ALL to
the past, either his or yours as you perceived it, you will be able to
learn from what you see NOW. For the past can cast no shadow to darken
the present UNLESS YOU ARE AFRAID OF LIGHT.
</div>

We have read earlier that your minds are lit by God, and that your Mind
is Light, as I shared at the beginning of the evening here.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And only if you are &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; afraid of light &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; would you choose to bring this darkness WITH you, and by
holding it in your minds, see it as a dark cloud that shrouds your
brothers and conceals their reality from your sight.
</div>

The only reason you insist on holding your brother or sister to your
past perception of them, or their past behavior, is because you
don&rsquo;t want to have to be conscious yourself. Because you have the
way out of the problem. You have the way out of the human condition. And
that is to be conscious fully in the now. If you&rsquo;re choosing not
to do that and giving preference to coping with your orphan brother as
an orphan yourself, then there is a pay-off for you.

Well, okay. Do it. You can&rsquo;t change Reality. Doing it will not
kill you. It&rsquo;ll just be the human condition on and on and on. So I
can&rsquo;t scold you for it. But if you&rsquo;re not having a good
time, I&rsquo;m here to show you the way out. And I&rsquo;m here to show
you that the way out is not as complicated as the orphan mentality would
project that it aught to be.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; only if you are &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; afraid of light &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; would you choose to bring this darkness WITH you, and by
holding it in your minds, see it &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; where? Not in your minds, but &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; as a dark cloud that shrouds your brothers and conceals their
reality from your sight.
</div>

Now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; THIS DARKNESS IS IN YOU.
</div>

You&rsquo;re bringing it. You&rsquo;re spreading it around. You&rsquo;re
laying it over everything so that it alters your perception of
everything.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Christ revealed to you NOW has no past for He is changeless, and in
HIS changelessness lies YOUR release.
</div>

Now there&rsquo;s two ways you can read this correctly. The Christ,
meaning the Holy Spirit&mdash;that is nothing more than your right mind,
the divinity of you held in trust while you dally with the ego&mdash;has
no past for it is changeless, and in its changlessness lies your
release. The changelessness of your Christhood is that in which lies
your release, right there in the middle of you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For if He is as He was created, there is no guilt in Him.
</div>

Which means there is no guilt in you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
No cloud of guilt has risen to obscure Him, and He stands revealed in
everyone you meet because you see Him through HIMSELF.
</div>

&ldquo;Holy Spirit, help me look at my brothers through your Vision,
which is really my Vision. So that in my seeing Him though your Vision
and my extending it to Him, I can have the moment of A-ha, when I
realize that this isn&rsquo;t your Vision, Holy Spirit, but is mine, the
Christ that I am.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To be born again is to LET THE PAST GO and look without condemnation
upon the present. For the cloud which obscures God&rsquo;s Son to you IS
the past, and if you would have it past AND GONE, you must not see it
NOW.
</div>

And the only way not to see it now, is not to bring it into the now
through the use of your commitment to your memory.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you see it now in your delusions it has NOT gone from you, although
it is not there.
</div>

It is not there because it is simply an evidence of insanity. And what
is insanity again? The mind engaged in an activity all by itself.

Now, you are all very well conditioned to accomplish things. You go to
school to learn how to accomplish various kinds of things and the
techniques for accomplishing the various things. You are conditioned to
accomplish things and arrive at a point of feeling some authority over
your world. Therefore, the greatest likelihood is, that when you say,
&ldquo;I wish to see everything through Your Vision because it is Your
gift to me, because it is Your function to extend that to me, even
though I don&rsquo;t know how the event will be experienced, I&rsquo;m
pretty sure that it will come as more tidbits of information, really
practical information, information that is, let&rsquo;s say,
earthmoving, information that has power, so that the dilemma I&rsquo;m
experiencing which is causing me to say, &lsquo;I wish to see everything
through your Vision&rsquo; can be dealt with.&rdquo;

And I will tell you right now, that&rsquo;s a mistake. Don&rsquo;t think
you are asking for information. &ldquo;I wish to experience everything
through your Vision, which is Your gift to me.&rdquo; Don&rsquo;t try to
fantasize what the experience will be like. Be simple minded. Be
unified, not fragmented and complex. Because I will tell you something:
My Vision will be extended, whether fast or gradual, and you will find
yourselves seeing differently. And you will find yourselves not
interpreting what you&rsquo;re seeing the way you had been seeing it
before. And you will find that what you wanted to become free of has
gone.

Oh dear, but not much help to you, because you don&rsquo;t know how you
did it. So now you can&rsquo;t repeat it in the future, you see. You
didn&rsquo;t get any little addendum to the manual&mdash;the instruction
manual. And yet, in order to have the experience in the future, it
requires not a remembrance of how the present happened, it has entirely
to do with being in that same place. &ldquo;I wish to see everything
&hellip; I wish to experience everything through Your Vision.&rdquo;

You&rsquo;re all trying to make things perfect. When you really allow
yourself to see through My Vision, you will find that it is already
perfect, requiring you to do nothing to make it so. And you&rsquo;re
going to find that your reason for being is something entirely and
wonderfully different from what you have thought it was.

Good question for all of you: Are you willing to have a teacher? Not
someone who&rsquo;s full of facts and data and who has a great
personality and a great rapport with students and being around him is a
joy and in the process you have so much more data to consider that makes
things work more easily? No. I&rsquo;m talking about a teacher who you
become reliant upon, a teacher in whom you are willing to give trust and
faith. Now we&rsquo;re talking in a different order of things
aren&rsquo;t we.

Are you willing to let the Holy Spirit in you be your Teacher&mdash;That
which you are willing to, as fearlessly as possible, lean into and
depend upon and defer to? Well, that&rsquo;s quite a bit of involvement
isn&rsquo;t it? Sure glad you didn&rsquo;t have to do that with every
teacher and when you were going through graduate school. Right? Whew!

A teacher isn&rsquo;t disposable&mdash;not a valuable teacher. It
isn&rsquo;t someone to listen to when you feel like it, and not listen
to when you don&rsquo;t feel like it. If that&rsquo;s the case, that one
is not a teacher to you in your mind, and your approach to that teacher
is not sincere, genuine, or committed. Well, when we&rsquo;re talking
about serious, genuine and committed, we&rsquo;re talking about really
being involved, aren&rsquo;t we.

Well, I&rsquo;ll tell you something: All of you are willing to get
committed when you&rsquo;re brought down to the wire. When you&rsquo;re
on your death&rsquo;s bed, or you&rsquo;ve just gotten notice of a
terminal illness, or your partner has walked out on you totally
unexpectedly, or when, for whatever reason, your self-esteem has been
knocked out from under you, now for a little while, you will be willing
to be genuine and committed to a Teacher and lean into that One.

Now what makes all of this somewhat amusing in a sick sort of way, is
that this Teacher that we&rsquo;re talking about&mdash;that I am talking
about you&rsquo;re making this commitment to, and giving this allegiance
to, is that which is nothing more than your very own right Mind, the
place of excellence in you that is already immovably there and never
went anywhere. So there is no risk of any kind involved.

I encourage you this week to make more commitment to your sanity than
you ever have before. &ldquo;Oh my God, how do I do that? Oh my sanity,
where&rsquo;s my sanity?&rdquo; Well, where&rsquo;s your insanity? Your
insanity is in the use you put your mind to in which the activity occurs
independently.

Sanity, therefore, that you make commitment to is your decision to do
nothing alone. In other words, to do everything joined whether
you&rsquo;re able to maintain it consistently or not to begin with, and
to persist in it. Remembering, that this is not so you will gain
information with which to get a better hold on your problematic life.
But so that you can break free of unconsciousness into a fully conscious
experience of the moment you&rsquo;re in. Which is in the little gap
between the past, between memory and the future imagination in which all
of Creation stands unaffected by as it always has been, unaffected by
whatever was going on in memory and whatever has been going on in
imagination.

Have a good week. And I look forward to being with all of you next week.

[^1]: T12.5 Finding the Present

