---
title: Oct 21, 2006
ref: T12.5 Finding the Present
alink: "/acim/text/12/chap1205/"
---

How many of you are mean-timers? Do you know what a mean-timer is? A
mean-timer is someone who says, &ldquo;I know that the second coming is
imminent, but in the meantime, I&rsquo;m going to blah, blah, blah
&hellip; I&rsquo;m going to be the best spiritual person, or the best
spiritual student I can be, or in the meantime I&rsquo;m going to have
the rowdiest, the most lascivious, the most physically satisfying
experiences I can come up with because it&rsquo;s going to be my last
chance.&rdquo;

Mean-timers are those who listen to what I&rsquo;m saying and hear me
say that the way out of illusion&mdash;the way out of the dream, the way
out of time&mdash;is to be found in the space, in the gap between
thinking &hellip; meaning memory and thinking, meaning imagination, past
and future. And they hear me say &hellip; you hear me say, that help is
available to you and you can&rsquo;t do it all alone because after all,
the dream you&rsquo;ve been in has been a dream of being alone and
insisting on doing everything alone.

And so you say, &ldquo;Wow, I know Paul is in touch with his Guide. And
I know a few other people who are in touch with their Guide. And every
once in awhile, I think I hear my Guide &hellip; but not yet. And
I&rsquo;m going to keep trying. But in the meantime until that happens,
blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. Oh, I&rsquo;m going to Google the internet
and find out if any other teachers are saying what Raj is saying.&rdquo;
Or, &ldquo;I&rsquo;m going to Google the scientific community to see
whether anyone in the field of science is beginning to confirm what Raj
is saying.&rdquo; You see?  [chuckle] Or, &ldquo;I&rsquo;m going to go
to the library and check out the latest spiritual growth books and see
what further support I can get for feeling confident that I&rsquo;m not
lost. I&rsquo;ll do this in the meantime until &hellip;&rdquo; Until
what? &ldquo;Until I take *my intent* to be conscious, until I take *my
intent* to not be distracted by the past thinking and the future
thinking, and make commitment to the now, make commitment to the moment
between the past and the future, which is silence.&rdquo;

All of you mean-timers are trying to make the best of the period of time
you&rsquo;re choosing to take until you decide to get serious and
actually do it.

Mean-timers are dawdlers &hellip; sorta standing there, moving &hellip;
um-m &hellip; moving your toes through the sand and inching forward and
&hellip; um-m noticing a sea-shell over there. You know it&rsquo;s time
to go! [said emphatically] But you don&rsquo;t want to go yet. So you
just sorta dawdle.

You waste your opportunities to be conscious. Why? &ldquo;Well, it takes
too much of my attention. It&rsquo;s too hard. I&rsquo;m not used to
being intelligent. [chuckle] I&rsquo;m used to just letting my thoughts
flow and experience what I&rsquo;m feeling and pay attention to my
feelings and magnify them and imagine what they mean, and just be crazy,
disorganized, confused. I&rsquo;m used to that.&rdquo;

How many of you listen to what I&rsquo;m saying on Saturday nights? And
while you&rsquo;re listening, you feel the meaning of what I&rsquo;m
saying and you are inspired. And after we&rsquo;re through, you are in a
different place than you were when you came in or started listening? And
then you go home and for the intervening week, your life is so different
from what we&rsquo;ve talked about that you actually really get
frustrated, because it seems as though what I&rsquo;m talking about
bears so little relationship to what you are experiencing.

Well, I&rsquo;m very glad if you&rsquo;re getting frustrated about it.
Because if you&rsquo;re getting frustrated about it, it means that
you&rsquo;re actually feeling the difference between the mental state in
which all you&rsquo;re doing is thinking and the mental state in which
thinking isn&rsquo;t going along, isn&rsquo;t going on. And in that
silence and in the attentiveness that is there, you are learning
something that&rsquo;s very different from what you have believed.

If you stop and think about what we&rsquo;ve talked about for the last
few years, you will realize that we&rsquo;ve said that your experience
of your world and your experience of your body, is that it reflects the
messengers you are sending out. It reflects back to you the use to which
you are putting your mind.

It isn&rsquo;t that there really are objects like a body and a flower
and a tree&mdash;physical objects sitting separate from each other in
particular places in space and time. You see? That&rsquo;s the way it
seems to you when you&rsquo;re thinking because you always think in
terms of space-time coordinates.

No. There is Creation: Trees, flowers, legs, arms, torso, head, glasses,
water. There is infinite conscious experience of the ideas in the Mind
of God that constitute the Movement of Creation and they are not
separate from each other and they are not hard physical objects in
space. They are, as I&rsquo;ve said before, pure Spirit. And they really
manifest and reflect their Source, which is God.

If you&rsquo;ve gotten a divorce from the Father, God, then you&rsquo;re
going to look at them with quite your own personal bias, with the
definitions you&rsquo;ve given to it and you will have lost the
experience of what they truly are. You have lost the experience of what
they truly are. And they reflect back to you exactly the definitions you
are sending out to them.

In this day and age, it&rsquo;s easy for you to &hellip; or it&rsquo;s
relatively easy for you to recognize that the health, or lack of health
of your body pretty well is coordinate with the use you&rsquo;re putting
your mind to. If you&rsquo;re angry and miserable and you keep yourself
in a constant state of tension by means of your thought processes and
your reasoning&rsquo;s and your logic, no matter how imperfect it might
be, you know, you&rsquo;re likely to have high blood-pressure,
you&rsquo;re likely to have ulcers, you&rsquo;re likely to have any
number of physical experiences (you call them) of dissonance.  And
anyone who dares to take enough time to notice, will recognize that this
is a fact. Your body reflects back to you the messengers you are sending
forth to it.

Now, you notice this because you say, &ldquo;This is my body. This
particular set of arms, and this particular set of legs and this
particular head is my body.&rdquo; And so, if it&rsquo;s not
comfortable, you pay attention, and you doctor it without solving the
problem or you recognize the use to which you&rsquo;re putting your mind
and you correct that use and have healing.

Now what you don&rsquo;t recognize is, that the glass and the water and
the table and the chairs and the trees and the flowers, because of the
continuity on the uninterruptible connectedness of everything, is also,
for lack of better words, your body. But since you don&rsquo;t claim it
as yours, then when this world that you are saying is out there separate
from you, reflects back to you the messages you&rsquo;re sending out,
and you hear of war, and you hear of riots and you hear of murders and
you hear of kidnappings and so-in-so who died, you say, &ldquo;Well,
that&rsquo;s the world&mdash;that&rsquo;s life!&rdquo; And you
don&rsquo;t realize that the messages you send out by virtue of
thinking, get applied to absolutely everything equally&mdash;the reason
being, the continuity of All That Is.

Oh, somebody says, &ldquo;Wha-a? You mean I&rsquo;m responsible for the
war in Iraq?&rdquo; Guilt, blame, which will necessarily lead to
judgment and punishment, that&rsquo;s the orphan mindset&rsquo;s frame
of mind. But we don&rsquo;t have to go there.

Yes, the messengers you send out will come back confirming their
purpose. But, the real question is: Are you willing to look at
what&rsquo;s happening and recognize that it&rsquo;s all reflecting back
to you the use to which you are putting your mind? Not so that you can
take blame or responsibility, but so that you can change your mind and
use it a different way&mdash;not just any old different way.

You are all familiar with the statement: &ldquo;There is another way to
look at this,&rdquo; whatever it might be, there is another way to look
at this.  Here&rsquo;s the simplicity again. There aren&rsquo;t
thousands of different ways to look at everything. There are only two.
One is, all by yourself.  And the other is, joined. If you&rsquo;re
looking at everything all by yourself through the orphan mentality, then
because that mentality is itself based on a false premise, everything
that follows will not exhibit truth. It&rsquo;s just that simple.

So, if there&rsquo;s a different way to look at things, when you look at
your world and say, &ldquo;Hm-m, if the world is reflecting back to me
the use to which I&rsquo;m putting my mind, if my body is reflecting
back to me the use to which I&rsquo;m putting my mind, then because
it&rsquo;s obviously not harmonious, not pleasant, apparently
destructive, undesirable&mdash;far from Heaven&mdash;then I better take
advantage of the other way to look at this.  And the other way to look
at this is joined.

What does that mean? It means not spending another moment looking at it
all by yourself. It means inviting the Holy Spirit or me or the Father
back in. And ultimately it&rsquo;s your Father that you need to invite
back it. Because it&rsquo;s your Father, who, by virtue of being your
Father, gives you your identity&mdash;tells you who you Are, tells you
what your Birthright is. Um-m, better than telling you what you&rsquo;re
Birthright is, imbues you with the experience of what your Birthright is
so that you no longer even entertain the fantastic idea that
you&rsquo;re an orphan.

Mean-timers are caught in eddies along side the edge of the river, not
in the flow, not inseparable from the movement and power and the
purpose. If you&rsquo;re not in touch with your Guide yet, or if
you&rsquo;re only occasionally in touch with your Guide, then gather
some more resolve than you&rsquo;ve been bringing into play so that you
stop being the mean-timer who finds interesting things to do until
&ldquo;Jesus comes again.&rdquo; Because the only thing you&rsquo;re
doing in the meantime until something, is until you stop being a
mean-timer until you actually take the plunge with resolve and with
commitment. Why? Because you don&rsquo;t want to be unconscious of the
moment you&rsquo;re in. You do not want to miss what&rsquo;s going on in
the moment you&rsquo;re in. You don&rsquo;t want to miss it because
you&rsquo;re distracted with the past and the future and all the
thinking you can do about it.

What a silly engagement of your mind. And all it takes is decision.
&ldquo;Well, ya know, I hear what you&rsquo;re saying and I like what
you&rsquo;re saying, but I just can&rsquo;t get any willingness behind
doing it. And I can&rsquo;t figure out why.&rdquo;

I&rsquo;ll tell you something: Don&rsquo;t waste your time trying to
figure out why you&rsquo;re not willing. Just do it! That&rsquo;s what
mean-timers do, they try to figure out why things aren&rsquo;t going
right. They try to figure out what it is they&rsquo;re doing wrong, what
deep-seated psychological block there is. And as a result, they busy
themselves without ever going into the gap&mdash;without ever going into
the silence&mdash;and being in the place where you don&rsquo;t know and
letting it be absolutely perfect that you, as an orphan mentality,
don&rsquo;t know.

Let&rsquo;s go into the book. We ended up last time with the sentence:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Now is the time of salvation, &hellip;[^1]
</div>

&hellip; Now, the little gap, the silence, the presence of Mind &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is the time of salvation, for now is the RELEASE from time.
</div>

Literally. In the release from time, healing doesn&rsquo;t need to take
time. Healing can be instantaneous. In the absence of time, you can be
here and then there instantaneously. Here and there will still be
present to be experienced. You just won&rsquo;t have to traverse the
distance between this space and that space, which according to the laws
of physics, show that it will take certain amount of time to get from
one place to the other and that&rsquo;s your limitation, just accept it.
Ultimately you can&rsquo;t go faster than the speed of light, it&rsquo;s
said. And that&rsquo;s a limitation if you have huge distances to go.
There is no such limitation. But if you believe it, that&rsquo;s the
messenger you will send out and you will get confirmation back
confirming it&mdash;proving it. Doesn&rsquo;t make it true, because
there is release from time.

Again, time and thinking are synonymous, whether its thinking, called
the past, or it&rsquo;s thinking, called the future. Time is not your
natural habitat. The gap is your natural habitat in which the
inseparable continuity of all of Creation is everywhere present&mdash;I
can&rsquo;t put it any differently than that&mdash;and is available to
you with a shift of attention to experience directly, whether its twenty
thousand par secs[^2] away, or five feet away.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Now is the time of salvation, for now is the&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; actual &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; RELEASE from time. Reach out to all your Brothers, and touch them
with the touch of Christ.
</div>

Reach out to your Brothers from the gap. Pay attention to your Brothers
from the silence. Pay attention to your Brothers from the absence of
thinking. When you are thinking, you are like one big mouth. And when
you are in the gap, you are like one big ear. It is a state of attention
without expectations, without preconceptions, it is what I have referred
to as looking at everything with innocent eyes, an innocent mind, a
silent mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Reach out to all your Brothers, and touch them with the touch of Christ.
</div>

That is what you cannot help doing when you choose to look out at your
Brother from the silence. You reach out with the only thing that is
there, which is the Christ of you, and you touch your Brother and
because, from that place, there is perfect continuity&mdash;you touch the
Christ in him and he recognizes it and illuminates the Christ in you by
expressing his joy at the communion.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In timeless union with them is YOUR continuity, &hellip;

In timeless union with them &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your Brothers &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Is YOUR continuity, &hellip;
</div>

As long as you are looking at anything from the orphan mentality, it is
impossible to experience your continuity&mdash;you&rsquo;re inseparable, indivisible
unalterable oneness with all of Creation. Because the very premise of
the orphan mindset is that you are alone and that you are alone by
choice so that you might exercise your personal private will for the
purpose of establishing yourself in your own right and ultimately
proving that you, on your own, are a success. Simple black and white.
But &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In timeless union with them&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your Brothers &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is YOUR continuity, unbroken.
</div>

Why?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; because it is wholly shared. God&rsquo;s guiltless Son is ONLY
light.
</div>

Isn&rsquo;t that something. Your mind, your attention is an illuminator.
Your attention illuminates what it is given to.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God&rsquo;s guiltless Son is ONLY light. There is no darkness in him
anywhere, for he is whole. Call all your Brothers to witness to his
wholeness, as I am calling you to join with me.
</div>

There&rsquo;s your task&mdash;there&rsquo;s your purpose. It&rsquo;s not
a selfish purpose.  It&rsquo;s not proving that you, in your own right,
are actual and successful.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Call all your Brothers to witness to his wholeness, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your Brother&rsquo;s wholeness. You&rsquo;re there to send out
messengers of the reality of your Brothers. And you&rsquo;re to invite
your Brothers to acknowledge the same thing in the Brother that
you&rsquo;re acknowledging.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; as I am calling you to join with me.
</div>

You see.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Every voice has a part in the song of redemption, the hymn of gladness
and thanksgiving for the light to the Creator of light.
</div>

You see, you invite the Father in. You let the Father in. You
acknowledge the Father. And in the acknowledgement, you can&rsquo;t help
but be overflowing with what you&rsquo;re experiencing and the overflow
extends to your Brother spontaneously and embraces and illumines him.
And by virtue of your giving it and his receiving it, it is confirmed
that it is yours. Because you have one purpose only and that is to
confirm Reality, to confirm truth, to confirm the Father in everything
your attention falls upon, instead of what you engage in every single
day&mdash;which is a far cry from that.

Again, it takes some discipline. Not a discipline of your thoughts,
[chuckle] but a discipline of your mind where you vacate the arena of
thinking itself. So that you do become a big ear, a big eye, in the gap
whose function is to pay attention and recognize and see. You see. And
when you let that be your function, which of course, takes you out of
the driver&rsquo;s seat, because you can&rsquo;t decide what to hear or
what you want to see. You&rsquo;re there to hear and see whatever is
there to see.  And what is there to see is Creation, undistorted.

It constitutes a different way of being, right where you have been being
all along. It is different. And you&rsquo;ve got to be willing to let it
be different. And you&rsquo;ve got to stop trying to make it interface
with the orphanage, or orphanland. Because the orphanage and orphanland,
as I&rsquo;ve said over and over, is nothing but a misperception of what
is really there.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The holy light that shines forth from God&rsquo;s Son &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is the witness that his light is of &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what? &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; his Father.
</div>

Remember, I said awhile back that it&rsquo;s a good idea to stop talking about
&ldquo;the Father&rdquo; and start saying, &ldquo;my Father?&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The holy light that shines forth from God&rsquo;s Son is the witness that his
light is of his Father.
</div>

Your light is of your Father. You are whole by virtue of being
inseparable from God and incapable of even approximating separation of
any sort no matter how creatively you have imagined it to be an absolute
separation.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Shine on your Brothers in remembrance of your Creator, &hellip;
</div>

&ldquo;Oh yeah, shine on my Brothers&mdash;shine on my Brothers, poor
bastards!  Shine on my Brothers. It&rsquo;s so very hard for me to feel
like shining on my Brothers. They&rsquo;re not &hellip; they&rsquo;re
not &hellip; they&rsquo;re just too difficult to be with, they&rsquo;re
too difficult to cope with &hellip; shine on my Brothers &hellip;&rdquo;

Well, what you&rsquo;re saying is, &ldquo;It&rsquo;s more important for
me not to be in my right Mind, than it is for me to be in my right Mind.
It&rsquo;s more important for me not to perform my function&mdash;my
divine function&mdash;than it is to perform my divine function. It is
more important for me to be conflicted than it is for me to be at
peace.&rdquo;

Hell, forget about having pity on your Brother and have pity on
yourself. Because until you care enough about yourself to invite the
Father in, or to get into the little gap and willingly stay there and
avoid thinking, you will not get out of your misery, you will not get
out of your confusion and you will not have any light to shine on your
Brothers.

It doesn&rsquo;t matter whether your Brother deserves you shining on
him, it matters whether you want to be crazy or not, whether you enjoy
being insane, or whether you would like to experience what your natural
irrevocable sanity is.

So, &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Shine on your Brothers &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what? &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; in remembrance of your Creator, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you see, until you have said, &ldquo;Father, help!&rdquo; Until
you&rsquo;ve said, &ldquo;Holy Spirit, help!&rdquo; Until you&rsquo;ve
said &ldquo;Jesus, help!&rdquo; and you&rsquo;ve meant it, there
won&rsquo;t be any influx of conscious experience of your Father and
therefore, your identity, and therefore, an overflowing influx of
awareness of truth that you can shine on your Brother, and thus own
because you&rsquo;ve performed your function.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Shine on your Brothers in remembrance of your Creator, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and therefore your remembrance of yourself, and therefore your
remembrance of your Brother&mdash;who you are, who he is&mdash;so that
you&rsquo;re not fooled by his orphan behavior or your memories of and
pictures of him as an orphan that you have cultivated and held.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Shine on your Brothers in remembrance of your Creator, for you will
remember Him &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your Creator &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; as you call forth the witnesses to His &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your Creator&rsquo;s &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; creation.
</div>

See, there&rsquo;s where the unity is brought into focus. There&rsquo;s where the
continuity is undisturbed, because you&rsquo;re not engaged in dismembering
the unity of Creation by virtue of insane thinking.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Those whom you heal bear witness to YOUR healing, &hellip;
</div>

When you see the truth, not just an idea, but when you feel and know the
truth that God is all there is to what you or a thing [is], you can
share it in a way that others will hear. And when they hear it, because
it&rsquo;s not intellect, and it&rsquo;s not thinking, and it&rsquo;s
not an orphan ploy of manipulation to get the best of a situation, your
Brother is healed and his healing gives proof of your healing. His
clarity gives proof of your clarity.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Those whom you heal bear witness to YOUR healing, for in their wholeness
you will see your own.
</div>

You see, you will feel the continuity, you will experience the
inseparability. You will know that oneness is the fact of the two of you
as one without the two of you melting into each other and losing all
identity whatsoever.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And as your hymns of praise and gladness &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; yours and your Brother&rsquo;s &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; rise to your Creator, He &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your Creator &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; will return your thanks in His clear answer to your call. For it
can never be that His Son called upon Him and remained unanswered.
</div>

The continuity has always been there. The oneness has always been there.
The Christ that you are, is the only thing that has ever been there, and
the Christ that you are is the Son of God which constitutes and gives
you your identity, and it&rsquo;s always been there. The truth has
always been there. Every request you have made has always been answered.
But you don&rsquo;t hear the answer because you&rsquo;re so sure of the
context in which the answer must come and it must come in the context of
orphanland and orphanages, and the miserable way in which orphans do
their best to deal with each other, to their own advantage without in
the process, killing each other off.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
His call to you is but your call to Him.
</div>

It&rsquo;s one thing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And IN Him &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Father &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you are answered by His peace.
</div>

You know what? You say, &ldquo;It&rsquo;s too hard for me to find time
to get into my peace because everything is so unsettled and demanding,
that it must be taken care of or everything &hellip; everything will be
destroyed, everything will collapse, everything will fall to
pieces.&rdquo;

Well, people, think a little &hellip; uh-h-h&mdash;no&hellip; pay
attention! For centuries you&rsquo;ve been thinking and for centuries
things have been chaotic but existence hasn&rsquo;t been wiped out.
Destruction has not occurred. If you decide not to cater to the
suggestion that you had better take care of the problem before you get
into your peace because if you don&rsquo;t the results will be
disastrous, if you don&rsquo;t play into that ploy and you do choose for
your peace instead, with disregard for the invitation to be in conflict,
everything will not collapse. And if you move into your peace, your
perspective will shift. Your perceptions will shift. And without your
exercising any power whatsoever, your world will begin to reflect back
to you the new messengers you are sending out&mdash;the messengers of
peace. And it will not require time for peaceful adjustment to occur.

This is very important. It&rsquo;s very important because it&rsquo;s so
fundamental.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Children of Light, you know not that the light is in you. Yet you will
find it through its witnesses, for having GIVEN light to them they will
RETURN it.
</div>

That is, if you&rsquo;ve given light to them. If you&rsquo;ve decided
not to let your mind run off half cocked insanely, but choose the
messengers you would send out.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Everyone you see in light brings YOUR light closer to your OWN
awareness.
</div>

It&rsquo;s inevitable. It&rsquo;s a law. But if you don&rsquo;t bother
to see in light, then there will be nothing to bring your light closer
to your own awareness. It&rsquo;s just that simple.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Love always leads to love. The sick, who ask for love, are grateful for
it, and in their joy they shine with holy thanks. And this they offer
you who GAVE them joy.
</div>

&ldquo;Oh, yeah, that&rsquo;s my Brother I&rsquo;m supposed to shine
on.&rdquo; Yeah, well if you do shine on your Brother, that&rsquo;s what
will happen.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The sick, who ask for love, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the ones who don&rsquo;t deserve it, the ones that&rsquo;s so
hard for you to get along with, when looking at them through the orphan
mentality, &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; are grateful for it, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the love they&rsquo;ve asked for when they receive it &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and in their joy they shine with holy thanks. And this they offer
you who GAVE them joy.
</div>

Well, if that&rsquo;s going to be the result, then what value is there
in saying, &ldquo;Oh yeah, I gotta shine on my Brother?&rdquo; What
value is there in it? None.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
They &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the sick, who ask for love &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; are your guides to joy, for having received it of you they would
keep it. You have established them as guides to peace, for you have
made it manifest in them. And seeing it, its beauty calls YOU home.
</div>

Everything you do as an orphan&mdash;everything you do as an independent
agent&mdash;will establish independence and the awfulness of it more and
more definitely, more and more uncomfortably. But everything you do as a
gift, a willing extension of an excellent use of your mind, will reflect
back to you increased unity, increased experience of continuity, and the
joy that comes from the actual experience of not being alone.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is a light which this world &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that you have made up, I&rsquo;m adding that &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is a light which this world &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; which you thought up&mdash;which you gave definitions to &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; cannot give. Yet YOU can give it, as it was given you.
</div>

Or we could say,

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet YOU can give it, as it &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; is &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; given [to] you.
</div>

But of course, you won&rsquo;t receive it even though its given. You
won&rsquo;t receive it, if you&rsquo;re maintaining a staunch
independent stance. &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t need anything. I have
everything I need. God gave me free will. God gave me intelligence. God
gave me a mind to use. And He gave it to me to use well. And so I have
the capability of using it well. I don&rsquo;t need anything more. I
don&rsquo;t need a gift. I don&rsquo;t need any light.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is a light which this world cannot give. Yet YOU can give it, as
it was given you. And as you give it, it shines forth to call you from
the world and follow it.
</div>

Right out of the orphanage. Right out of the orphan mind-set. Right out
of suffering. Right out of conflict.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For this light will attract you as nothing in this world can do. And
you will lay aside the world and find another.
</div>

You see, there is a different way to look at this. You don&rsquo;t have
to look at it all by yourself. You can look at it joined and you will
see another world. You will see the same world with such beautiful
clarity that it doesn&rsquo;t look like what you thought it was, and you
are no longer confused into believing that the world and universe is
polarized and subject to decay. And that birth always means death.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And you will lay aside &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; orphan-land &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you will lay aside the world and find another.
</div>

Reality.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This other world is bright with love which &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what? &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; YOU have given it.
</div>

Why? Because you&rsquo;ve shown on your Brothers. You&rsquo;ve shown on
your Brothers because you&rsquo;d rather be in your right Mind.
You&rsquo;ve shown on your Brothers because you didn&rsquo;t want to be
conflicted anymore. You&rsquo;ve shown on your Brothers because you
wanted to be conscious rather than unconscious right in the middle of
the Kingdom of Heaven.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This other world is bright with love which YOU have given it. And here
will everything remind you of your Father &hellip;
</div>

You see, you won&rsquo;t be estranged from Him anymore and it will be Okay
with you for everything to remind you of your Father. Because anything
that reminds you of your Father reminds you of You, Who you really Are.
And Who it has been your Birthright to be conscious of all along. Even
when you were having so much god damned fun being miserable, thinking
for yourself.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And here will everything remind you of your Father and his Holy Son.
Light is unlimited, and spreads across this world in quiet joy.
</div>

Literally, the movement of the experience of joy&mdash;not the idea of
joy&mdash;the experience of joy quietly moves across your world because
joy is not exciting. Joy is full of peace. It&rsquo;s full of peace
because there is no conflict in it. As a result, there is no edge to it,
no excitement to it, no fear to it. It&rsquo;s full blown joy like a
blanket rolling across the world, not an object but an energy you, might
say, that everything and everyone&mdash;you, the trees, the squirrels,
the ants&mdash;feel and are not unconscious of.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Light is unlimited, and spreads across this world in quiet joy. All
those you brought with you will shine on you, and you will shine on them
in gratitude because they brought you here.
</div>

You see, you did it together. It was an act and a conscious experience
of unity&mdash;of continuity.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your light will join with theirs in power so compelling that it will
draw the others out of darkness as you look on them.
</div>

Mind you, we&rsquo;re discussing this in the context of finding the
Present.  You might say, &ldquo;Well, what will it be like if I do
it?&rdquo; Well, there it is spelled out for you. But don&rsquo;t do it
for the goodies. That&rsquo;s not the point. Do it because you
don&rsquo;t want to be insane one more moment.  Do it because you
don&rsquo;t want to be unconscious of what&rsquo;s really going on one
more moment. You don&rsquo;t want to dawdle one moment longer.

The rest will come because the rest is a gift. It&rsquo;s a gift that
was given since the beginning, if I may put it that way. It is a gift
that is given new each moment. It&rsquo;s the Movement of Creation.
It&rsquo;s the Movement of God. And it&rsquo;s your function not to miss
it! It&rsquo;s your function not to miss it. It&rsquo;s not your
function to get satisfaction out of cursing the President or cursing the
politicians or running down the school-board, or any of the righteous
activities you engage in mentally.

I am telling you, and we&rsquo;ve been reading, that the release from
the past and the future occurs by what? Not dealing with the past and
not dealing with the future but by abandoning them in favor of the
little gap of silence in the middle of the two. And becoming one big ear
and one big eye.

You know that if you are physically not well, and you change your
attitude&mdash;you watch what the use that you&rsquo;re putting your
mind to and what messengers you&rsquo;re sending out and you change the
messengers you&rsquo;re sending out&mdash;you have experienced
healing, whether it was instantaneous or whether it was gradual. Most of
you have had this experience. That&rsquo;s all the proof you need to
grasp the value of paying close enough attention to your mind, to bring
your attention out of the realm of thinking into the silence of the
moment and listen so that new messages received from that place of
excellence in you, the divine one that you Are or so that clarity coming
from your Guide, or revelation coming from the Father, can fill you up
with new messengers to send out because it will make a difference.
It&rsquo;s a law.

See? I said the book&rsquo;s predictable. It talks about the things that
you&rsquo;re practicing that aren&rsquo;t working for you so that you
might look at them squarely, so that you might look at the illusion or
the beliefs squarely, so that you can specifically release them, and it
talks about the truth and illumines the truth. And it goes back and
forth.

Now I may have been speaking enthusiastically tonight but everything
that we have read about tonight, you could say, is the good news. We
weren&rsquo;t having to take a look at the insanity and talk about the
insanity. We&rsquo;ve talked about how things work&mdash;how Creation
works&mdash;and your inseparable part in it, and your inseparability
from it, and your absolute incapacity to engage in any activity alone.
And this is good news.

I love you all. And you know what? You love you all too. Really. And if
you find during the coming week that it&rsquo;s difficult to be willing
to love yourself, or its difficult to be willing to love another,
don&rsquo;t try to find out why you&rsquo;re unwilling. Oh, the orphan
mentality will give you a whole string of reasons that have nothing to do
with anything but they&rsquo;ll keep you occupied in the meantime, until
you just do it!

Okay. Have a wonderful week.

[^1]: T12.5 FINDING THE PRESENT
      {: .omit}

[^2]: Par secs &ndash; A unit of measure for interstellar space that is equal to
      3.26 light-years and is the distance to an object having a parallax of
      one second as seen from points separated by one astronomical unit.
      {: .omit}

