---
title: Oct 28, 2006
ref: T12.5 Finding the Present
alink: "/acim/text/12/chap1205/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the Internet.

We&rsquo;re going to go directly into the book tonight.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Awakening unto Christ is following the laws of love of your free will,
and out of quiet recognition of the truth in them. [^1]
</div>

Key words &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; quiet recognition of the truth in them.
</div>

There&rsquo;s nothing quiet about your thinking and there&rsquo;s nothing quiet
about your expression of your thoughts.

You speak to be heard. You speak always, for a purpose. You speak to
make an impression. Sometimes it&rsquo;s a bad impression, &ldquo;Poor
me.&rdquo; It&rsquo;s an impression of somebody helpless in need of
help. And yet, there&rsquo;s nothing namby-pamby about the delivery of
the poor soul impersonation.  Sometimes it is for self-protection,
sometimes it is for control, but always it is a very definite assertion
of *you* calculated to make an impression&mdash;calculated to accomplish
things. And there&rsquo;s nothing quiet about you or about the act of
the delivery of your thoughts. There&rsquo;s no peace in it &hellip;
there&rsquo;s no peace in it.

It&rsquo;s also never an expression of love or the embodiment of an
understanding of what love is because always, as the orphan, everything
you do is for manipulative purposes.

Inclusion, embrace, doesn&rsquo;t allow for manipulation. Embrace comes from
an absolutely opposite place&mdash;the willingness to extend. The willingness
to give, if it is genuine, cannot be manipulative. It&rsquo;s always benign.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Awakening unto Christ &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; um-m, that&rsquo;s the thing that happens in the gap. That&rsquo;s the thing
that happens in the silence. Because in the silence you are infilled
with the awareness of truth. It&rsquo;s unavoidable. It&rsquo;s spontaneous.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Awakening unto Christ &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; coming from the gap, coming from the silence in which the
awareness of love can fill you up &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is following the laws of love of your free will, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; not of your willfulness &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and out of quiet recognition of the truth in them. The attraction
of light must draw you willingly, and willingness is signified by &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; big word &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; GIVING.
</div>

The opposite of getting. Orphans are incapable of giving. It&rsquo;s against
their religion. It&rsquo;s against their bottom-line rules for being.
Because giving means involvement, giving means embrace. And I promise
you that manipulation is not involvement &hellip; it&rsquo;s attack. And a fight
is not involvement because communion cannot occur in the midst of
conflict, especially purposeful conflict.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Those who accept love of you become your willing witnesses to the love
you gave them, and it is THEY who hold it out to YOU.
</div>

Their receipt of it is acknowledgment of it in you. And so they send
out a messenger to you confirming the truth about you and the gift you
have given, because you have received it in the silence&mdash;in the
gap&mdash;becomes truly yours. And, as the saying goes, &ldquo;What you give, you
get to keep.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In sleep you are alone, and your awareness is narrowed to yourself. And
that is why the nightmares come. You dream of isolation BECAUSE your
eyes are closed. You do not SEE your brothers, and in the darkness you
cannot look upon the light you gave to them.
</div>

You are the light and your very being is constantly extending light to
everything. But when you are preoccupied with your thoughts and your
definitions and your rules and your great attempt to become something
Real on your own, in your own right, absolutely blinds you to the light
you are extending by simply being. And so you do not see it. And
because you are not consciously extending it, the messengers are not
recognized by you that return in confirmation of the light you have
sent. And even if others do recognize the light in you and they feed
back to you the good they see in you&mdash;the light they see in you&mdash;you will
be suspicious, you will be untrusting. You will wonder what kind of
underhanded ploy they are engaging in by feigning friendliness.

Those will be the messengers you will be consciously sending out. And
when they return with confirmation of their purpose for being sent out,
you will hear them.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You dream of isolation BECAUSE your eyes are closed. You do not SEE
your brothers, and in the darkness you cannot look upon the light you
gave to them.

And yet the laws of love are not suspended because you sleep.
</div>

Likewise, you do not stop being the Christ just because you&rsquo;re insisting
on believing you&rsquo;re an orphan and basing all your actions on that false
premise. And this is important to understand because you are not a poor
orphan somehow working his or her way back to a divine status. It is
present right now. It&rsquo;s your environment right now.

Although you may be caught in an eddy at the edge of a river, the water
in the eddy is the water in the river. And whatever circular motion is
occurring in the eddy is being caused by the energy of the movement of
the river. And so, no matter how stuck you think you can get yourself,
you never escape the fundamental environment and state of Being, that of
your Christhood.

And so it says &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And yet the laws of love are not suspended because you sleep. And you
have followed them through all your nightmares, and have been faithful
in your giving, for you were NOT alone. Even in sleep has Christ
protected you, ensuring the real world for you when you wake.
</div>

I&rsquo;ve said many times, the Holy Spirit is your divinity held in trust
while you dally with the ego.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Even in sleep has Christ protected you, ensuring the real world for you
when you wake. In YOUR name He has given FOR you, and given YOU the
gifts He gave.
</div>

What gifts? The gifts of acknowledging God right where you are. The
gifts of recognizing that all there is to you is what God is Being right
there. The gift of glorifying God right there where you are in spite of
what you&rsquo;re believing and dreaming and compelled to imprison yourself
with.

What gift? The gift of His Vision, which it is your Birthright to see
and experience everything through, because it is truly your real
capacity to see and grasp the meaning of everything as it truly is.
That gift, the Christ in every single brother who is Awake, extends to
you. And it is the gift that the Christ of you, called the Holy Spirit,
extends to you. And it is a gift you will receive when you abandon your
addiction to trying to become something or someone in your own right by
pulling yourself up by your own bootstraps&mdash;something you believe you
have to do because you believe you are alone, an orphan, having no
Source.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God&rsquo;s Son &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is still as loving as his Father.
</div>

God&rsquo;s Son is still as everything as his Father&mdash;loving, creative,
embracing, extending, uninhibitively Being Present with every aspect of
your conscious experience, even that which seems to be beyond your
conscious experience at the moment.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Continuous &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; there&rsquo;s that word again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Continuous WITH his Father, he has no past apart from Him. So he has
never ceased to be his Father&rsquo;s witness AND HIS OWN. Although he slept,
Christ&rsquo;s vision did not leave him.
</div>

Although you are sleeping, Christ&rsquo;s Vision has not left you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And so it is that he can call unto himself the witnesses that teach him
that he never slept.
</div>

Oh dear, there we go &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; call unto himself the witnesses &hellip;
</div>

&ldquo;I don&rsquo;t need any witnesses. God gave me the capacity to think and
reason and be intelligent and I&rsquo;m supposed to do that &hellip; blah &hellip;
blah &hellip; blah &hellip; I can handle it myself. I&rsquo;m supposed to handle it
by myself!&rdquo;

But no &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And so it is that he can call unto himself the witnesses that teach him
that he never slept.
</div>

Oh, gotta invite something else in, gotta abandon the isolation, gotta
abandon the pride found in self-sufficiency and invite something else
in&mdash;an actual relationship, an actual involvement, an actual dynamic in
which you could say there&rsquo;s a mutual yielding like a dance, a give and a
take, a movement together that is full of meaning, because the movement
arises out of the rhythm of the movement of Creation itself, the
Movement of God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And so it is that he &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; can call unto himself the witnesses that teach him that he never
slept.
</div>

An interesting new section &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
ATTAINMENT OF THE REAL WORLD
</div>

Could be a little misleading&mdash;appeals to the ego.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
ATTAINMENT OF THE REAL WORLD
</div>

Oh-h, an accomplishment. But no. Attainment of the real world is
accomplished by abandoning acts of getting, by abandoning acts of
accomplishing, by abandoning clear thinking&mdash;manipulative clear
thinking&mdash;clear thinking that goes directly from A to B to C to D to E,
the final destination that was planned for when Step A first occurred.

No. Attainment of the Real world is something that happens in the
silence. It is something that happens in the absence of thinking. It
is something that happens in the middle of peace which you have desired
to experience and have taken steps to get into through meditation, for
example.

Attainment of the Real world occurs in the little gap where you have
dared to say, &ldquo;I yield, I yield.&rdquo; Attainment of the Real world is
what&rsquo;s left when you abandon all attempts at willfulness, at
accomplishment, at power and control. It&rsquo;s what is present in the peace
of your Being.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Sit quietly and look upon the world you see, and tell yourself,

&ldquo;The real world is not like this. It has no buildings, and there are no
streets where people walk alone and separate. There are no stores where
people buy an endless list of things they do not need. It is not lit
with artificial light, and night comes not upon it. There is no day
that brightens and grows dim. There is no loss. Nothing is there but
shines, and shines forever.&rdquo;
</div>

Now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&rdquo;It has no buildings, and there are no streets &hellip;&rdquo;
</div>

It&rsquo;s easy to take that part of the sentence and home in on it: &ldquo;Oh,
right, so all the buildings, all streets, all structures, all form is
illusion.&rdquo; No. Creation is Creation.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&rdquo;It has no buildings, and there are no streets &hellip;&rdquo;
</div>

&hellip; and here&rsquo;s the key part &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip;&rdquo; where people walk alone and separate.&rdquo;
</div>

You use Creation. You use the ideas of Mind that are experienced as
form for ulterior and negative reasons. You believe that because you
are alone, you are vulnerable. And so, even a tree becomes a place to
hide from threat, rather than an idea, the beauty of which it&rsquo;s your
privilege to enjoy and feel and see the Presence of God in.

You know it says &hellip; you&rsquo;ve heard the saying that, &ldquo;The
time will come when the lion and lamb will lie down together?&rdquo;
Well, it doesn&rsquo;t say the time will come when the lion and lamb
will disappear because they&rsquo;re illusions. The time will come when
the lion and the lamb will lie down together because neither you nor
they will be governed by a fundamental misperception that survival is
fundamental to being, but it is not natural to being. You get it?

If survival was not a factor, the need to survive was not a factor,
because survival was a given, an eternal unalterable given, the lion and
the lamb would behave entirely differently and you would behave with
each other on an entirely different basis.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&ldquo;There are no stores where people buy an endless list of things they do
not need.&rdquo;
</div>

True. Trying to fill up an emptiness that isn&rsquo;t even real. You know
what? It takes a whole universe to hold all of your infinite wealth&mdash;to
hold all of Creation that you have participated with the Father in
Being, in bringing forth. Structure is not going to disappear.
Creation is identified by outline, form and color, by apparent
structure, by characteristics that are recognizable. And when you Wake
up, characteristics will not fade, Creation will not become
unrecognizable because there&rsquo;s nothing distinguishable about it.

If I asked you to take ten minutes to think of the ten most beautiful
things that you have ever experienced&mdash;the ten most beautiful things
you&rsquo;ve experienced&mdash;you could do it. Well, are those things taking up
space somewhere? Can your mind get too full of the experiences of
beautiful things? No. Ideas don&rsquo;t take up space. They don&rsquo;t occupy
space. But they are recognizable in outline, form, color and detail.
And what you call a physical, material world out here, is not a physical
material world. It is all ideas held in the continuity of conscious
experience&mdash;of Mind. It&rsquo;s all Mind.

And so, when you are Awake, you will not use &ldquo;structures&rdquo; for the
self-protective, sometimes mercenary and always fearful meanings that
you employ them for. To have a building, to have a structure in which
you enjoy being, does not require you to use it for self-protection,
either as a fortress against others, or a shelter against the elements.

To find that you exist in a benign world&mdash;an infinitely benign
universe&mdash;will not mean that you will not have structures, recognizable,
identifiable conscious experiences. But imagine, (only for a moment,
please) imagine what it would be like and what it would do and how you
would create a structure that was in no way a form of defense, and one
that did not keep you safe because you&rsquo;re invulnerable. Well, for one
thing, you would probably give your attention to the, for lack of better
words, the organizing of structures of incredible beauty, just because
it&rsquo;s a gloriously wonderful thing to experience love in the form of
beauty.

I&rsquo;ve said before, that everything you see and can touch, is not matter,
it is Spirit. And the substance of Spirit is Love. And so, whether it
looks like a rock, whether it looks like a piece of tar-paper, whether
it looks like a beautiful Japanese vase, it isn&rsquo;t the name you give to
it, it&rsquo;s the Substance of it which, when you&rsquo;re Awake, you experience
without reservation, you experience fully. And you find that even what
seems to be inanimate, is truly living, moving Love&mdash;the presence of the
Father. And it is loving being the form or structure that it appears to
be and it is loving extending the love that it is to you. And it causes
you to respond with that kind of love as well. And many of you have had
experiences of illumination just like that. You have had glimpses of the
way things truly are.

So as you read this, understand that it is not making reference so much
to form and structure, as it is to the use you are putting it to and the
foundational premises that cause you to approach them and see them the
way you are seeing them.

Now, it is true &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&ldquo;It is not lit with artificial light, and night comes not upon it.&rdquo;
</div>

As you become less and less defended against joining, and more and more
insistent upon looking at everything through Christ&rsquo;s Vision&mdash;which is
His gift to you&mdash;all of this living substance called Love that appears as
all the various structures that you&rsquo;re experiencing, will also be
recognizable as Light. Light illuminating everything so that there is
no place of darkness&mdash;never a place of darkness. And the Light that
lights it all is a palpable Love.

There is so much awaiting you. And that&rsquo;s why I encourage all of you
not to quibble over, &ldquo;Is this real, is that not real? Will this be here
after the shift? Is it all illusion?&rdquo;

Don&rsquo;t waste your time doing the mental gymnastics of thinking in order
to come to a conclusion that you have no experience to base it upon.
And get to the point of doing that which will bring you the experience,
which is, daring to get into the little gap, daring to be present in the
world, daring to be present in a relationship minus your spontaneous
habit of trying to think it through and deal with it on the basis of
your thinking, so that you might be present in that moment innocently,
silently, empty so to speak. So that you might experience Reality as it
is, that has always been present in that silent place for you to
experience.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The world YOU see must be DENIED, for sight of it is costing you a
different kind of vision.
</div>

Everything that you have determined the meaning of is blinding you to
the experience of what it really is. And so you must devalue the
definitions you&rsquo;ve given it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The world YOU see must be DENIED, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; invalidated. Why? Because in the presence of [chuckling] the
nothingness that will be there when you&rsquo;ve invalidated it, you will be
standing clear of all distraction from seeing it as it truly Is. Don&rsquo;t
deny the trees, don&rsquo;t deny the bunnies, don&rsquo;t deny the yellow jackets,
don&rsquo;t deny the birds, don&rsquo;t deny your body.

Choose to get out of that environment&mdash;that mental environment&mdash;and go
into the silence so that you might begin to look at everything from
there with the desire to see and experience everything through Christ&rsquo;s
Vision, which is His gift to you from the Father.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The world YOU see must be DENIED, for sight of it is costing you a
different kind of vision.
</div>

Christ&rsquo;s Vision&mdash;your Sane recognition of everything.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
YOU CANNOT SEE BOTH WORLDS, for each of them involves a different kind
of seeing and depends on what you cherish.

[Repeats] &hellip; each of them involves a different kind of seeing &hellip;
</div>

Yes, one of them involves seeing alone, and the other involves seeing
joined.

Each one of you is going to have to get passed the fearsome point of
being willing to yield to and be involved with something other than
yourself. The orphan mentality says, &ldquo;Anything else other than myself
is dangerous. Anything else other than myself is as unscrupulous as me.
But of course, I&rsquo;m learning to use my unscrupulousness to my best
advantage. And sometimes even to the advantage of my brother because it
helps me get what I want and makes my brother happy too.&rdquo; But you see,
it&rsquo;s still manipulation. It&rsquo;s still private.

You have to get past this fear of letting something else, let&rsquo;s say, be
equal to you and honor equally as yourself. &ldquo;You don&rsquo;t want to do that.
It&rsquo;s too dangerous,&rdquo; your ego says. What? More dangerous than the life
you&rsquo;re already living?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The sight of one &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; world &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is possible BECAUSE you have denied the other.
</div>

&ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;d rather see it my way.&rdquo; So you deny the
Father&rsquo;s point of view. You deny the perspective that it&rsquo;s
your Birthright to experience.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The site of one is possible BECAUSE you have denied the other. Both are
not true, yet either one will seem as real to you as the amount to which
you hold it dear.
</div>

Just how much do you hold your own private perspective dear? And how
much do you assume it&rsquo;s going to cost you to abandon it? Oh I know, it
will cost you dearly.

What you value, you will have. And I continually say: Risk the chance
that something incredibly healing and something incredibly
transformational will happen if you stop holding your right&mdash;your
so-called imaginary right&mdash;to have your own thoughts and create your own
reality. Risk the chance.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Both are not true, yet either one will seem as real to you as the amount
to which you hold it dear. And yet their power is NOT the same because
their real attraction to you is unequal.
</div>

The attraction of Reality is Real, because it has the presence of God
behind it, it has the presence of God in it, and most accurately, it is
the presence of God. The other world is purely imaginary, imagined by a
so-called entity that doesn&rsquo;t even exist. The entity itself is
imaginary&mdash;the orphan. It has no substance to it, no presence to it and
therefore can have no attraction whatsoever. A misperception of a tree
cannot attract you. But what a tree divinely is can attract you because
its substance is Living Love that is loving you.

If you are feeling lonely at any time, I want you to remember that you
are not alone because every tree, every flower, every chair, every
lampshade, every houseplant, every carrot in the refrigerator, is Living
Love, recognizable in that form and is loving you with a love that goes
through your very Being and inspires you, and you are being loved at
every moment by everything because it&rsquo;s not matter and it&rsquo;s not the
result of a big bang, and it&rsquo;s not an illusion.

And as long as you hold to definitions that say it is the result of a
big bang and it is matter, you will deny yourself the possibility of
experiencing it for what it is and you will feel lonely. The loneliness
will not be real, but you will feel it nevertheless, because your
mindset&mdash;the use to which you&rsquo;re putting your mind
itself&mdash;constitutes a denial of your capacity to experience
everything for what it is.

You must dare to go through every day with what might seem to you to be
a fantastic and unreasonable desire, to see the more of God in
everything than what you&rsquo;re currently seeing, so that you
don&rsquo;t use all of Creation for purposes for which it wasn&rsquo;t
intended.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You do not really want the world you see, for it has disappointed you
since time began.
</div>

You should write that down on a piece of paper and put it on your
refrigerator to remind yourself that you don&rsquo;t want to be addicted to
something that has never worked. You don&rsquo;t want to be addicted to
something that has never satisfied. You don&rsquo;t want to be addicted to a
way of being that is insane, that brings no fruits, that brings no
transformation, that constitutes an eternal eddy.

Remember, the eddy is always at the edge of a river. It&rsquo;s always
at the edge of a moving body of water. It&rsquo;s at the edge of the
Movement of Creation, not separate from it but temporarily isolated from
it. And it&rsquo;s not your Birthright to be in that eddy forever and
ever and ever.  But you&rsquo;ve got to stop accepting it. You&rsquo;ve
got to stop saying, &ldquo;This is life.&rdquo; How many lifetimes are
you going to say, &ldquo;This is life &hellip; this is life &hellip;
this is life &hellip; it&rsquo;s not much, but this is life .  &hellip;
yeah, I recognize this &hellip; yeah, not much fun &hellip; but this is
life.&rdquo;

Bullshit! It&rsquo;s time to get up on your haunches and try using your mind
in a different way for a different purpose. Instead of using it to
confirm aloneness, use it to invite and establish joining, involvement,
letting someone and something else be equally of value as you&mdash;that you
are required to honor rather than ignore or disdain or stand superior
to.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The homes you built have never sheltered you. The roads you made have
led you nowhere, and no city that you built has withstood the crumbing
assault of time.
</div>

Is that because they were all material? No. It&rsquo;s because in your
mindset you are confident that life is conflicted&mdash;that life is
polarized. You&rsquo;re all so convinced that time is actual, and yet last
week we talked about the fact that you can become free of time. You can
become free of the destructibility, the decadence, or the capacity to
decay of all form including your body. And you can see things as they
really are, eternal &hellip; you can. You can become free of the
conviction you carry with you that what I&rsquo;ve just said isn&rsquo;t so.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Nothing you made but has the mark of death upon it. Hold it not dear,
for it is old and tired, and ready to return to dust even as you made
it.
</div>

What did you make? A distorted perception of it. A false
interpretation of it that served your ego and your sense of what gives
you power. What did you make? You made a fundamental decision to adopt
a fundamental belief, not a fact, a fundamental belief that you exist on
your own and you can make something out of yourself. And that that is
your purpose for being. That&rsquo;s what you made.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Hold it not dear, for it is old and tired, and ready to return to dust.
&hellip;
</div>

[chuckling] &hellip; ready to evaporate.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This aching world has not the power to touch the living world at all.
</div>

This aching world that you&rsquo;ve made up.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This aching world has not the power to touch the living world at all.
You could not give it that, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you simply can&rsquo;t make what isn&rsquo;t real actual. You
could not give it that.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and so although you turn in sadness from it, you cannot find in IT
the road that leads away from it into another world.
</div>

And yes, you will turn in sadness from it. You&rsquo;ve held it dear. You&rsquo;ve
thought it kept you alive. You thought it gave meaning to your
existence and it hasn&rsquo;t. Nothing you can attempt to do to give your
existence meaning can give it Meaning. Because before you had the most
insignificant thought about somehow personally giving your life meaning,
your life was and still is God Moving, Meaning, unthrottled Being,
uninhibited Creation.

Don&rsquo;t let these words just drip over your mind and run off like water in
a shower, down the drain. These words are truth. And they are shared
for the purpose of moving you to the point of taking hold of the use to
which you are putting your mind, so that you will put it to a different
use.

And again, there are only two uses: One is to use your mind as though
it&rsquo;s isolated, solitary, independent. And the other is to use it for
the purpose of joining: Joining with the Holy Spirit&mdash;that which is
nothing more than your right Mind&mdash;joining with the Christ, joining with
Me or joining with the Father. And as I said last week, ultimately,
whether you&rsquo;re joining with the Holy Spirit or joining with Me, you are
ultimately joining with the Father. Because in the joining, in the
letting down and the letting in, that which the Holy Spirit&mdash;that which
is nothing more than your right Mind&mdash;will remind you of and disclose to
you, is your Sonship, your Daughtership. It will reveal to you your
Source and return to you the full conscious experience of your identity.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This aching world has not the power to touch the living world at all.
You could not give it that, and so although you turn in sadness from it,
you cannot find in IT the road that leads away from it into another
world.

Yet the real world has the power to touch you &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; why? Because its Substance and Meaning is Love that embraces you
and imbues you with all that it is. And illuminates in you the truth
about you that brings you back into your right Mind so that you feel
whole and invulnerable.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the real world has the power to touch you even here BECAUSE YOU
LOVE IT. And what you call with love WILL come to you.
</div>

It&rsquo;s just that you have to call for something different from what you
have been calling for. &ldquo;Oh, but if I do that, then I&rsquo;ve got to give up
my will. I&rsquo;ve got to give up my willfulness. I&rsquo;ve got to give up my
whole life ethic to try to become something since I&rsquo;m nothing!&rdquo; Yeah,
it does. No need for you to try to duplicate what God has already
accomplished.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Love always answers, being unable to deny a call for help, or not to
hear the cries of pain that rise to it from every part of this strange
world you made but do not want.
</div>

Well, you could say that&rsquo;s stretching a point but it&rsquo;s not &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; this strange world you made but do not want.
</div>

This strange world you made you do want and you find out exactly just
how much you do want it when you are reluctant to open up to the world
that you didn&rsquo;t make.

&ldquo;I&rsquo;d rather stick with what I&rsquo;m familiar with.
I&rsquo;ll go around this eddy a few more thousand times &hellip; yeah,
whew! No telling what I&rsquo;ll find out in the main current.&rdquo;
No.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The only effort you need make to give this world away in glad exchange
for what you did not make is willingness to learn THE ONE YOU MADE IS
FALSE.
</div>

Oh-h &hellip; bad news for the ego. But hey, there is no ego. So you
don&rsquo;t have to feel bad if the one you made is false. All you have
to recognize is, &ldquo;Oh yeah, I&rsquo;m doing something that
doesn&rsquo;t work. I&rsquo;m going to do something that does work. I
thought it was working but I see now that lifetime after lifetime after
lifetime, or even this one long lifetime I&rsquo;ve been living,
nothing&rsquo;s changed. I&rsquo;m still stuck.  I&rsquo;m still going
through the same historical processes that my parents and my
grandparents and &hellip; everybody has babies and the babies grow up,
and when they grow up they have babies &hellip; and the babies grow up,
and when the babies grow up, they have babies.&rdquo;

A little monotonous don&rsquo;t you think? Transformational? No. Stuck in
an eddy is what it is. You don&rsquo;t want to perpetuate that. It&rsquo;s not
your Birthright.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You HAVE been wrong about the world because you have misjudged YOURSELF.
</div>

&ldquo;But Father, I&rsquo;d rather see it my way &hellip; I want a divorce!&rdquo;

And so you imagined you got a divorce and you created a sense of
yourself as an orphan. And that constituted a misjudgment of yourself&mdash;a
false perception of yourself&mdash;and you&rsquo;re stuck in it at the moment and
you don&rsquo;t need to be. And I won&rsquo;t let you be without constantly
reminding you that you don&rsquo;t need to be, so that you&rsquo;ll get enough
gumption to do something new.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You HAVE been wrong about the world because you have misjudged YOURSELF.
From such a twisted reference point what COULD you see? All vision
starts WITH THE PERCEIVER, who judges what is true and what is false.
And what he judges false HE DOES NOT SEE. You who would judge reality
CANNOT see it, for whenever judgment enters reality has slipped away.
</div>

&ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;d rather name these things&mdash;I&rsquo;d rather
define what they are.  &hellip; Oh, gee whiz, where did everything
go?&rdquo; [soft chuckle]

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The out of mind is out of sight because what is denied is there, but is
not RECOGNIZED. Christ is still there, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; who you really Are &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is still there, although you know Him not.
</div>

But here&rsquo;s something wonderful:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
His Being does not depend upon your recognition.
</div>

Your Christhood does not depend upon your recognition.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He lives within you in &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; Oh, what? &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the quiet present, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the little gap, the silence.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He lives within you in the quiet present, and waits for you to leave the
past behind and enter into the world He holds out to you in love.
</div>

You know what? There really isn&rsquo;t a problem to solve. There
isn&rsquo;t anything to work out, even though as we go through the book
it seems to give you lots of little details and things maybe to work
out. There&rsquo;s nothing to work out. There&rsquo;s just a call for a
simple willingness to see things differently, a call for a simple
willingness to abandon your commitment to your very definite mindset, a
willingness to abandon that you aren&rsquo;t here to do everything on
your own and a willingness to reach out to the Father&mdash;to your
Father, to the Holy Spirit, or to the Christ&mdash;and invite them in
and really mean it! It&rsquo;s like a single person arriving at the
point where he says, or she says, &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t want to be alone
anymore. I want to get married. I want to live in relationship to
someone else twenty four hours a day, seven days a week, fifty two weeks
a year.&rdquo;

Much to contemplate. Much to be with. But notice I did not say, much
to think about. Learn to be present with things without thinking.

I love you all. And I look forward to being with you next week.

[^1]: T12.5: Finding the Present

