---
title: Nov 11, 2006
ref: "T12.6 Attainment of the Real World"
alink: "/acim/text/12/chap1206/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

Your days are full of stimulation, and the stimuli usually elicit
conditioned responses. In other words, habitual responses, whether
it&rsquo;s a habitual thought, whether it&rsquo;s a habitual boilerplate
statement, it&rsquo;s always something that comes from your memory. It
is always a past behavior that spontaneously comes into play actually
without your even thinking.

Now, everything we are uncovering here has as it&rsquo;s
point&mdash;it&rsquo;s purpose&mdash;to move you off of your ingrained
tendency to respond out of habit. Because when you&rsquo;re responding
out of habit, you are not responding to the actual moment you are in and
the actual dynamics of it. And so, your response can&rsquo;t ever really
be in touch with what the stimuli are calling for.

The fact is, that the underlying ground belief or habitual response or
style of habitual response is, that no matter what the stimuli has been,
it&rsquo;s up to you to know what to do. It&rsquo;s up to you to have
the answer. It&rsquo;s up to you to find out how to cope with whatever
the stimulus is. It&rsquo;s all me &hellip; me &hellip; me. It&rsquo;s
all orphan &hellip; orphan &hellip; orphan.

What we are in the midst of promoting transformation about, is that you
remember that it&rsquo;s not all up to you. In other words, that there
is a God.

I don&rsquo;t care how spiritual you are or how spiritual you think you
are or how well developed you think you&rsquo;ve
become&mdash;spiritually speaking&mdash;you very seldom consistently
respond to the events in your day from a conscious awareness of your
partnership with God. You forget there&rsquo;s a God. And you forget
what the portent is of what God is relative to you. And so you lose, or
perhaps, have never experienced the inspiration, the uplift, the
inspiriting of Revelation and spontaneous clarity and the ever-present
support there is for you to have an experience very different from the
hum-drum, repetitive scenarios that unfold in your day, where: Something
happens, you respond on your own &hellip; something happens, you respond
on your own &hellip; somebody reacts to your response and you react to
their response &hellip; you react to their reaction. And there you are
in the eddy that we&rsquo;ve been talking about, caught in just a mental
habit of being unconscious.

The whole point is to remember that there is a God and to remember that
God is your Father. It&rsquo;s not that there is a God that created the
Universe, and you are enjoying the effect of His Creation. It&rsquo;s
not that there is a God Who somehow maintains an underlying order to
things so that no matter how bad they get Creation doesn&rsquo;t
collapse, but you&rsquo;re just left to cope. It&rsquo;s that God is
infinite intelligence and you, for lack of better words, are the
reflection of that infinite intelligence.

This intelligence that God is, is your intelligence. It&rsquo;s His gift
to you by virtue of creating you in His image and likeness as His
Offspring. It&rsquo;s your Birthright to be experiencing the inspiration
and inspiriting of this conscious experience of intelligence that goes
far beyond your being able to sort and gather data from your memory
banks to pull together to respond to life because it all depends on you,
and how good a brain you have and how effective your synapses are, and
so on and so forth &hellip; you unfortunate &ldquo;hunk of meat.&rdquo;

You forget that there is a God. And so you don&rsquo;t reach out. And if
you do reach out, it&rsquo;s generally a reaching out to a sort of blind
God that may or may not see you, may or may not hear your plea because
He&rsquo;s very different from you. You are just His manifestation. You
are just His effect, an effect of a Movement of Creation far in the
past. And so, in your mind, it&rsquo;s a hit or miss process&mdash;this
reaching out to God, that&rsquo;s called prayer.

Now, before we go into the continuation of what we were reading last
week, I am going to read Lesson 130 in the Workbook without comment.

The subject is:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&ldquo;It is impossible to see two worlds.&rdquo;[^1]

Perception is consistent. What you see reflects your thinking. And your
thinking but reflects your choice of what you want to see. Your values
are determiners of this, for what you value you must want to see,
believing what you see is really there. No-one can see a world his mind
has not accorded value. And no-one can fail to look upon what he
believes he wants.

Yet who can really hate and love at once? Who can desire what he does
not want to have reality? And who can choose to see a world of which he
is afraid? Fear must make blind, for this its weapon is; that which you
fear to see you cannot see. Love and perception thus go hand in hand,
but fear obscures in darkness what is there.

What, then, can fear project upon the world? What can be seen in
darkness that is real? Truth is eclipsed by fear, and what remains is
but imagined. Yet what can be real in blind imaginings of panic borne?
What would you want that this is shown to you? What would you wish to
keep in such a dream?

Fear has made everything you think you see. All separation, all
distinctions, and the multitude of differences you believe make up the
world. They are not there. Love&rsquo;s enemy has made them up. Yet love
can have no enemy, and so they have no cause, no being and no
consequence. They can be valued, but remain unreal. They can be sought,
but they can not be found.

Today we will not seek for them, nor waste this day in seeking not what
can be found. It is impossible to see two worlds which have no overlap
of any kind. Seek for the one; the other disappears. But one remains.
They are the range of choice beyond which your decision cannot go. The
real and the unreal are all there is to choose between, and nothing more
than these.

Today we will attempt no compromise where none is possible. The world
you see is proof you have already made a choice as all-embracing as its
opposite. What we would learn today is more than just the lesson that
you cannot see two worlds. It also teaches that the one you see is quite
consistent from the point of view from which you see it. It is all a
piece because it stems from one emotion, and reflects its source in
everything you see.

Six times today, in thanks and gratitude&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in thanks and gratitude &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; we gladly give five minutes to the thought which ends all
compromise and doubt, and go beyond them all as one. We will not make a
thousand meaningless distinctions, nor attempt to bring with us a
little part of unreality as we devote our minds to finding only what is
real.

Begin your searching for the other world by asking for a strength beyond
your own, and recognize what it is you seek. You do not want illusions.
And you come to these five minutes emptying your hands of all the petty
treasures of this world. You wait for God to help you, as you say:

&ldquo;It is impossible to see two worlds. Let me accept the strength
God offers me And see no value in this world, that I May find my
freedom and deliverance.&rdquo;

God will be there. For you have called upon the great unfailing Power
Who will take this giant step with you in gratitude. Nor will you fail
to see His thanks expressed in tangible perception and in truth. You
will not doubt what you will look upon. For though it is perception, it
is not the kind of seeing that your eyes alone have ever seen before.
And you will know God&rsquo;s strength upheld as you made this choice.

Dismiss temptation easily today whenever it arises, merely by
remembering the limits on your choice. The unreal or the real, the false
or true is what you see, and only what you see. Perception is consistent
with your choice, and hell or Heaven come to you as one.
</div>

As one or the other.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Accept a little part of hell as real, and you have damned your eyes and
cursed your sight, and what you will behold is hell indeed. Yet the
release of Heaven still remains within your range of choice, to take the
place of everything that hell would show to you. All you need say to any
part of hell, whatever form it takes, is simply this:

&ldquo;It is impossible to see two worlds. I seek my freedom and
deliverance, And this is not a part of what I want.&rdquo;
</div>

As you go through your day are you doing it in a lazy sloppy way? Things
happen that you don&rsquo;t like and you say, &ldquo;Well that&rsquo;s
life,&rdquo; and you do your best to cope with it. Or, are you alert
enough and unconfused enough in your own mind that you are willing to
look at it and say, &ldquo;This is not a part of what I want!&rdquo;
Taking a stand, as it were, taking a position on your behalf.
&ldquo;This is not a part of what I want. I want freedom and
deliverance. This is unacceptable.&rdquo;

You will have the experience that you stand on the side of. You will
have the experience that will reflect the belief that you stand on the
side of. And so it calls for some self-discipline. Your experience will
be as fuzzy or as clear as what you insist upon having for your
experience.

Now, let&rsquo;s go into the book. And I&rsquo;m going to back up a
couple of sentences.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The out of mind is out of sight because what is denied is there, but is
not RECOGNIZED. Christ is still there, although you know Him not.[^2]
</div>

And we could say God is still there, although you know Him not. Because
it didn&rsquo;t occur to you to let Him in, it didn&rsquo;t occur to you
to include Him, because you&rsquo;re so damned busy taking care of all
the stimulating events that are going on in your life which you think
call for your habitual responses.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Christ is still there, although you know Him not. His Being &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and God&rsquo;s Being &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; does not depend upon your recognition. He lives within you in
the quiet present, and waits for you to leave the past behind and enter
into the world He holds out to you in love.

No-one in this distracted world but has seen some glimpses of the other
world about him.
</div>

You&rsquo;ve all had moments of inspiration. You&rsquo;ve all had
moments of insight. You&rsquo;ve all had moments of clarity that let you
know that there literally is another way to look at this&mdash;another
way to be with everything.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
No-one in this distracted world but has seen some glimpses of the other
world about him. Yet while he still lays value on his own, he will DENY
the vision of the other world, maintaining that he loves what he loves
not, and following not the road that love points out.
</div>

Um-m &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; maintaining that he loves what he loves not.
</div>

Well, you don&rsquo;t love doing what doesn&rsquo;t work. And yet you
insist on doing what does not work. And to make it even more practical,
you insist on doing things by yourself, which has never ultimately
worked. You insist on doing things without including anything outside
your puny little memory banks and the habitual ways of processing the
data that&rsquo;s there.

Listen to this:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Love leads so gladly!
</div>

Now, when you&rsquo;re caught up in looking at everything through your
particular biases and your particular interpretations that you&rsquo;re
so absolutely sure of and you are unwilling to gather data from anywhere
outside of your memory banks, existence is a struggle. There&rsquo;s no
joy to it, because in one way or another, it&rsquo;s a constant
unfoldment of failure.

And you know that wears you down. You really do know that it wears you
down and discourages you&mdash;depresses you. But you say, &ldquo;What
can I do?&rdquo; [slight chuckle] You can remember that there is a God.
You can remember that there is a Source that is a Resource that goes far
beyond whatever you have stored in your memory banks.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Love leads so gladly!
</div>

You, each and every one of you, are constantly surrounded by, imbued by,
and supported by a love that extends itself to you gladly. And
inescapably conveys the gladness to you that causes you to feel
inspired. Inspiration is available to you even in your darkest moments,
even in your lousiest attitude that you seem not to be able to shake
yourself free from.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Love leads so gladly! And as you follow Him&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Christ that&rsquo;s still there, although you know
I&rsquo;m not&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; And as you follow Him, you will rejoice &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; ah-h . . the joy will come through &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you will rejoice that you have found His company, and learned
of Him the joyful journey home.
</div>

Specifically tonight, we&rsquo;re homing in on the need for you to
realize that when you feel absolutely stuck in a frame of mind or a
mental attitude of negativity that seems absolutely justifiable to you,
and which, because it seems totally justifiable to you, there can be no
escape from &hellip; there is escape.

There is escape.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And as you follow Him, you will rejoice that you have found His company,
and learned of Him the joyful journey home. You wait but for YOURSELF.
</div>

&hellip; not Him. And you don&rsquo;t wait for God, although you say
your prayers to God, and then you wait in hopes that He will answer you,
as though He might not.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You wait but for YOURSELF.
</div>

&hellip; you wait but for yourself to shift your focus of attention
from the past to the now, from memory to the little gap&mdash;the place
of silence in you&mdash;where you are not confirming and reconfirming
old bad habits and old thinking processes that accomplish nothing and
keep you in a repetitive state of failure.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To give this sad world &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your depression, your consternation. Ah-h, your hopelessness.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To give this sad world over and exchange your errors for the peace of
God is but YOUR will.
</div>

&hellip; or to hold on to this sad world and mull it over and sit on the
pity-potty is but your will. But it isn&rsquo;t the will that&rsquo;s
established in your Being. It&rsquo;s a will that&rsquo;s established in
sloppy, bad, mental habits.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To give this sad world over and exchange your errors for the peace of
God is but YOUR will.
</div>

That is your true will. Because of what you truly Are. It&rsquo;s not
the will of the orphan, but it&rsquo;s the will of the divine Being that
you Are that is being obscured by your preoccupation with negativity.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And Christ will ALWAYS offer you the Will of God, in recognition that
you share it with Him.
</div>

You share the Will of God with God because all there is to you is God
Being all there is to you. But you&rsquo;ve got to remember this right
in the middle of your stimulating day, and your habit of responding out
of habit, out of the past, out of your memory, out of what you are so
independently confident about without ever asking for a second opinion
and turning to God or the Holy Spirit or your Guide or Me, and saying,
&ldquo;How else could I be seeing this? I need a second perspective. And
I want a perspective that reflects the truth, not beliefs.&rdquo; And
say your prayer, &ldquo;I wish to see and experience everything through
your Vision, which is your gift to me from God.&rdquo;

Ask Me to share My Vision with you because that is what I&rsquo;m here
for, not just on Saturday nights, but every moment of your day. Start
engaging with Me more consistently. Start asking for Me to share My
Vision, so that you might look at everything through It. Why? Because
it&rsquo;s your Birthright to be seeing everything that way, and not to
be confused, and not to be depressed and not to be caught in a
repetitive eddy.

Clarity of Vision &hellip; the Father&rsquo;s Perspective &hellip; the
capacity to look at everything from your innate divine sanity is a
promise held out to you as long as you&rsquo;re denying its existence.
It is an unfailing promise that stands there to be implemented, or
activated by your conscious choice to access it in favor of, or in place
of your stupid intent to value whatever your current way of seeing
things is.

Now, it certainly is my hope, that you don&rsquo;t just tune in on
Saturday nights and listen for a little bit of inspiring stimulation and
then, perhaps, draw from it occasionally. It&rsquo;s my hope that when
you become discouraged for whatever reason, you&rsquo;ll pick up this
book and read what we&rsquo;ve been talking about. You need the support
when your strong habits are in full force. You need to be able to sit
down and read something like this:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is God&rsquo;s Will that nothing touch His Son except Himself, and
nothing else comes nigh unto him.
</div>

Now you&rsquo;re likely to read that and say, &ldquo;Well that sure as
hell isn&rsquo;t my experience!&rdquo; But the fact is that you&rsquo;ve
read it. And there&rsquo;s something that you now are aware of that
contradicts what you are so sure of. And you need that reminder to be
present at the same time that you are, out of habit, reinforcing your
negative frame of mind or your independent stance that necessarily means
that your experience cannot be the fullness of fulfillment.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is God&rsquo;s Will that nothing touch His Son except Himself, and
nothing else comes nigh unto him. He is as safe from pain as God
Himself&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; why? What ultimately could cause you to be as safe from pain as
God Himself? Well, the very simple fact that all there is to you is what
God is Being of Himself right there where you are. And you were never
created and allowed to become a separate independent entity by God. You
are always the current inspirited presence of the Mind of God&mdash;of
the Being of God. And that is why:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He is as safe from pain as God Himself, Who watches over him in
everything.
</div>

You need the reminder that you are not alone. Because your suffering is
caused only and entirely by the belief that you are alone, independent,
separate, an orphan, a living being set into motion and left to fend for
itself all by itself.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The world about him &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the world about you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; shines with love because God placed him in Himself where pain
is not, and love surrounds him without end or flaw.
</div>

We&rsquo;re talking about Reality here, the other world, so to
speak&mdash;one of the two choices that you seem to have available to
you. When you seem to be confronted with the other world of pain and
sorrow, you can do what you&rsquo;ve always done and suffer through it,
or you can say, &ldquo;Wait a minute! I have a choice. Not a lot of
choices. I only have two choices: I can choose for what I&rsquo;m
experiencing, which is not Real and is a suffering experience, or I can
opt for the other choice for that which is Real in which no suffering is
going on, no misperception of Reality is going on that seems to
hurt.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Disturbance of his peace &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; God&rsquo;s Son &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; can never be. In perfect sanity he looks on love, for it is all
about him &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; all about him, everywhere &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and within him. He &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; MUST deny the world of pain the instant he perceives the arms
of love around him.
</div>

The moment you let them in&mdash;the arms of love&mdash;and experience
them, you will without thought, immediately let go of the world of pain
that you were experiencing because you will have experienced the other
option &hellip; the other choice. And you cannot see two worlds at the
same time. It&rsquo;s black or white.

That&rsquo;s how simple it is. And that&rsquo;s how Absolute it is. But
it boils down to your making a choice.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He MUST deny the world of pain the instant he perceives the arms of love
around him. And from this point of safety he &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; looks quietly about him, and recognizes that the world is one
with him.

&hellip; is one with him.
</div>

&hellip; continuous, not segregated, not separated into this, that and
the other thing that are different from you. This world that
you&rsquo;ve been educated to think came from a big bang and it&rsquo;s
just a matter of physical processes going on, is the Kingdom of Heaven
misperceived as that. And so&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; from this point of safety he looks quietly about him, and
recognizes that he world is one with him.
</div>

That the world is the Kingdom of Heaven.

Now, this book uncovers error for what it is and it illuminates the
truth. In the process of uncovering error, it can begin to look as
though you and your thinking are responsible for all of your bad
fortune, your suffering, your illness, your distress, and so on. And it
can seem to call for you to get a better hold on your mind. In other
words, a call for the orphan to become more efficient in the proper use
of his mind, or her mind. And this can create a tremendous burden. And
you say, &ldquo;Oh-h, well, it&rsquo;s in the Course and so this burden
must be appropriate and I must endure it!&rdquo; And all the time that
you&rsquo;re going down this fantasy lane, you&rsquo;re forgetting one
thing: There is a God.

You see, the orphan has been so used to solving its own problems, and it
has been taught that it&rsquo;s up to him or her to do all the problem
solving and to find ways to do it better and better, which has never
solved the dilemma of being an orphan.

And so I want to remind you, that although it can become very easy to
use what we&rsquo;ve been reading and everything that&rsquo;s in the
rest of the book to burden yourself with a false responsibility to do
things better all by yourself, you must not succumb to it.

You must not forget, that the whole point is to cause a realization in
you that there are two vantage points&mdash;only two&mdash;and you can
choose for one or the other, meaning, you can stop choosing for the one
that doesn&rsquo;t work. And you can start choosing for the one that
heals, and regenerates, and transforms your perspective, your mind, so
that you do come back into your sanity. And then, recognizing that you
have a choice, make the choice and be diligent about it. And especially,
be diligent about it when you are caught in an eddy, when you are
depressed, when you are discouraged. That&rsquo;s when it&rsquo;s needed
most. And that&rsquo;s when you feel least like doing it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Love leads so gladly!
</div>

When you make the choice for what&rsquo;s Real&mdash;for Reality, for
something beyond your memory banks&mdash;what responds is love that
leads gladly, and as I said, embraces you and imbues you with the
experience of that gladness, causing you to be inspired in spite of the
awfulness of your perspective that you seem to be caught in irrevocably.

When you are caught in the so-called awfulness of the human condition,
get this book out and read. So that even though it seems to you in your
current mental frame of mind, that what you&rsquo;re reading is the
furthest thing from the truth&mdash;because you know what the truth is
and it&rsquo;s the awfulness of the human condition&mdash;you are
confronted with an intelligently expressed alternative point of view
that makes it easier for you not to believe that your current point of
view is the only point of view and absolutely valid. Because
that&rsquo;s the way you undo the commitment that you&rsquo;re bringing
to your loving, to hold to and affirm and reconfirm your awful negative
frame of mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The peace of God passeth your understanding ONLY in the past.
</div>

Well, it has in the past, because you&rsquo;re not Awake.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet here it IS, and you can understand it NOW. God loves His Son
forever, and His Son RETURNS his Father&rsquo;s Love forever.
</div>

But his Son does not return His Father&rsquo;s Love until he let&rsquo;s
his Father in, until he lets the awareness that he has a Father be
present in his mind. If he doesn&rsquo;t do that, he&rsquo;s all caught
up in self-preservation, his tiny little self having to solve every
problem against the greatest of odds and a world and universe that are
conflicted and tends to cause suffering and ultimately, death.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The real world is the way that leads you to remembrance of this one
thing that is wholly true and wholly YOURS. For all else you have lent
yourself in time, and it will fade. But this one thing is ALWAYS yours,
being the gift of God unto His Son. Your ONE reality was given
you&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and I would say, is given you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and by it God created you &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; as one with Him.
</div>

All there is to you is what God is Being of Himself, right there where
you are.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You will first dream of peace, and then awaken to it.
</div>

You know what? When you are as caught up in the fullness of your
problems and the arrogance you have to think that it&rsquo;s up to you
to solve it, and that God gave you the capacity to solve it without
consulting God, all by yourself, you don&rsquo;t dream of peace.
You&rsquo;re fulfilling a purpose which is to your credit to fulfill or
will be supposedly. And you don&rsquo;t dream of peace. You dream of
conflict and surmounting it. You&rsquo;re on a crusade and you&rsquo;re
loving it because you know right will win out.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You will first dream of peace, and then awaken to it. Your first
exchange of what you made for what you want is the exchange of
nightmares for the happy dreams of love. In these lie your true
perceptions, for the Holy Spirit &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that which is nothing more than your right Mind&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; corrects the world of dreams where ALL perception is. Knowledge
needs no correction. Yet the dreams of love lead UNTO knowledge. In them
you see nothing fearful, and because of this they are the welcome that
you OFFER knowledge.
</div>

When something is not fearful, you spontaneously embrace it, you
spontaneously welcome it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Love waits on welcome, NOT on time, and the real world is but your
welcome of what always was. Therefore the call of joy is in it, and
your glad response is your awakening to what you have not lost.
Praise, then, the Father for the perfect sanity of His most holy Son.
</div>

&hellip; meaning yours.

Put a marker on this page so that you can come back to it because you
need the reminders that are here. And come and read it when you least
feel like it, when there seems to be no point, when you&rsquo;re sure it
won&rsquo;t do any good. You might say, level out the playing field by
providing another perspective than the one you&rsquo;re engaged in that
is causing your suffering.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your Father knoweth that you have need of nothing.
</div>

It&rsquo;s the Father&rsquo;s good pleasure to give you the Kingdom. And
that&rsquo;s what God, Being Himself right where you are, as what
appears to be you, Is. It&rsquo;s you having the Kingdom.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your Father knoweth that you have need of nothing. In Heaven this is so,
for what could you need in eternity? In YOUR world &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the one you made up &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you DO need things because it is a world of scarcity in which
you find yourself BECAUSE you are lacking. Yet CAN you find yourself in
such a world?
</div>

&hellip; the world in which you need nothing?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Without the Holy Spirit the answer would be no. Yet because of Him the
answer is &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; a joyous YES!
</div>

Not just a matter of fact, so-be-it sort of thing. It&rsquo;s a &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; joyous YES! As Mediator between the two worlds, He knows what
you have need of and what will not hurt you.
</div>

And again, you&rsquo;ve got to remember that the Holy Spirit is nothing
more than your right Mind. And so we&rsquo;re talking about, in the
process of waking up, you&rsquo;re not being the beneficiary of some
&ldquo;out there benefactor,&rdquo; not an orphan being given the
equivalent of an inheritance, you are &hellip; it is you coming back
into your right Mind where wholeness and integrity and cohesiveness and
continuity&mdash;unbroken continuity&mdash;is your experience.

Now, there are many of you who have, during the last few weeks, been
caught in an eddy of negativity&mdash;in a circular thought
pattern&mdash;in which you have been incapable of experiencing insight
or revelation or the infilling of the Spirit where it has seemed to be
impossible to have any lift, any reason to experience the slightest bit
of joy or even let&rsquo;s just say, pleasantness.

And some of you have said, &ldquo;Well, after what we&rsquo;ve been
learning in the Course, my orphanhood must be in full blossom, and what
can I expect? And there is so much about my thinking that is
wrong&mdash;that I don&rsquo;t even know of&mdash;that it&rsquo;s going
to be impossible for me to get out of this eddy.&rdquo; And you use what
we&rsquo;ve been reading to justify staying stuck.

That happens because it coincides with your lifelong habit that
you&rsquo;ve been raised to believe: That everything is up to you and
that you are independent and that you do have intelligence of your own
and you do have capacities that it&rsquo;s up to you to exercise. And
not only that, if you have to lean on someone else, that is insulting!
If you have to be in relationship with someone else or something else,
and let&rsquo;s say, let there be shared responsibility for getting out
of the problem, it undermines and disqualifies any hope you thought you
had to fulfill your purpose&mdash;your so-called purpose to become a
successful entity on your own&mdash;a false purpose that has been
dangling in front of you like a carrot in front of a horse that you have
been trying to get, and which you will never be able to get because
it&rsquo;s part of the setup that you never get it. Why? Because if the
horse got it, the horse would stop moving forward. And so the
paraphernalia is set up so that the horse can&rsquo;t get it, but it
will be just out of range so that it feels like it&rsquo;s worth trying
for.

Please, remember that you have two choices, not just the one
you&rsquo;re caught in and suffering from. And then, do whatever you
have to do to make the other choice, even if it means picking up this
book and going to his marked page or any other place where you can read
about the truth about you, so that you have a &ldquo;second
opinion&rdquo; side by side with the first. In the presence of the
second opinion that is different, the first opinion cannot appear to set
there as an absolute fact, and you cannot be duped as easily.

Okay. Have a rousing good time this week challenging your habitual
thinking, not by doing anything to it, but by opting for giving your
attention to and letting in a second opinion&mdash;the other point of
view&mdash;in whatever way works.

And I look forward to being with you next week.

[^1]: Workbook Lesson 130
[^2]: T12.6 Attainment of the Real World

