---
title: Nov 18, 2006
ref: "T12.6 Attainment of the Real World"
alink: "/acim/text/12/chap1206/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

I know all of you are completely familiar with the idea that you come
into this world with nothing and you take nothing with you when you
leave. You come into the world with nothing, you leave with nothing.
It&rsquo;s like from dust to dust, from nothing to nothing. But glory of
glories, you have this opportunity you believe in the interim, to gather
things&mdash;possessions&mdash;to get and to have. Not only that, but to
get and to have that which is mutually agreed upon as having value so
that your accumulation constitutes your wealth or what you imagine to be
wealth. And how much you accumulate and how much you have when you leave
and take nothing with you, is a mark of your success&mdash;your worth,
literally.

This is such a strong belief that you believe, that what you possess is
your only worth and is the only proof of your worth. It is a miserable
idea, but it is one that is deeply engrained and not easy to abandon.

Now we&rsquo;ve been talking about the two worlds, and the fact you
cannot see two worlds at the same time. One precludes the possibility of
seeing the other. And the other precludes the possibility of seeing the
former.

What I just described about entering the world with nothing and leaving
it with nothing is the description of orphanhood. This is the one you
need to abandon because it completely blocks from your view, the Real
world, the truth about you that it is the Father&rsquo;s good pleasure
to give you the Kingdom, that the Father has withheld nothing of what He
is from you&mdash;a state of being in which there is no lack of any
sort.

Now, it&rsquo;s an interesting thing: In orphanland&mdash;the other
world&mdash;it is a state of mind of scarcity, which means that there
isn&rsquo;t enough for everyone. And that&rsquo;s the reason for the
struggle to possess so that you can secure for yourself something that
is meaningful and of value to you that there isn&rsquo;t enough for
everyone to have.

And the means by which you secure a possession is through the idea or
concept of ownership. The very word, &ldquo;ownership&rdquo; truly is
meaningless and needs to be seen as meaningless, and needs to be
invalidated. Because you know what? You can&rsquo;t take that with you
into the conscious experience of the other world or of Reality. And this
is a tough nut to crack.

How would you behave &hellip; and I want you to think about this from
time to time this week: How would you behave if you didn&rsquo;t own
anything and you didn&rsquo;t need to own anything? How would you behave
if everything you needed was yours? And then, I want you to contemplate
how you could transfer that experience&mdash;that way of
being&mdash;into your daily lives here in what you think is orphanland.

Now you may think this is going to take a tremendous stretch of your
mind, one that will be impossible. But it&rsquo;s not. And I am pointing
you in a direction without giving you an explanation of what you will
experience, because you have to feel for it yourself and you have to
begin to look at yourself and everything in your day&mdash;as you go
through your day&mdash;with a willingness to see it in a different way.
And you need to ask me or the Holy Spirit or the Father, to help give
you the new perspective&mdash;the fresh perspective. And don&rsquo;t be
afraid of what you will find.

You see, you&rsquo;re all afraid of loss. Loss of what? Loss of
possessions. Even your good you think of as a possession. You are afraid
of loss because your fundamental mind-set says nothing is truly yours to
begin with and none of it will be truly yours to end with, therefore,
you must do something unnatural, at odds with this state of nothingness,
so as to have substance yourself, wealth, respect that comes from it and
so on.

Now, are you the Christ. Now, are you each the direct expression of
God&mdash;the current direct expression of God&mdash;in Whom all that
God is, is Being embodied currently.

As I&rsquo;ve said many times, you are neither behind the point of
perfection, nor advancing toward it. You are at that point and must
understand yourself therefrom. And that&rsquo;s what we&rsquo;re talking
about.

&ldquo;Well, you&rsquo;re speaking in rather general vague terms.
Can&rsquo;t you be a little more specific?&rdquo; No. Because you have
to want the new experience. And you have to want it enough to opt for
it&mdash;to give your attention to the experience of it&mdash;and by
doing that actually within yourself, setting aside the devotion and the
commitment you have to your old mind-set.  I could tell you things, yes
&hellip; I could tell you things, yes &hellip; but then you would think
about what I told you. And I don&rsquo;t want you to think. I want you
to let yourself into the void of not-knowing and pay
attention&mdash;listen innocently&mdash;meaning, without preconceptions
or expectations.

At the beginning of the paragraph that we are going to start reading in,
it says,

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your Father knoweth that you have need of nothing.[^1]
</div>

&ldquo;Oh yeah, in the sweet bye and bye, that will be the truth. When
I&rsquo;m Awake, that will be the truth.&rdquo; Well, Wake up! Wake up
here &hellip; now &hellip; today &hellip; tonight &hellip; this moment!
It&rsquo;s the truth now! Don&rsquo;t distance yourself from it by
saying, &ldquo;Yeah, yeah, in the sweet bye and bye &hellip;&rdquo;
after you die or when you&rsquo;re further down your spiritual path.

You have to dare to start behaving and being conscious as though you
truly are not behind the point of perfection, that you&rsquo;re at the
point of perfection, and that you are capable of comprehending or
understanding yourself from that point right here, right now. Where? In
orphanland? No. In the Kingdom of Heaven that you&rsquo;re currently
calling orphanland. And all I&rsquo;m saying is, here is a way to stop
reinforcing that where you are is orphanland.

Pay attention this week to how much you value your possessions&mdash;how
devoted you are to them and how owned you are by them. You see,
ownership&mdash;the things you own&mdash;end up owning you, because as
you serve them, because they are serving you by giving you validation
and respectability, you lose sight of your capacity to love. It becomes
more important to you to protect your possessions than it does to care
about your brother or to do the inner work necessary to cut through the
definitions you have about your brother, so that you might connect with
what your brother truly Is, right there in front of you in spite of your
definitions.

&ldquo;Oh,&rdquo; you say (I&rsquo;m changing the subject slightly)
&ldquo;I have a body. This is my body. I have blue eyes&mdash;good
looking blue eyes. I am this or that. I have a pleasant smile. And my
body is nobody else&rsquo;s body. It&rsquo;s mine.&rdquo; Well,
isn&rsquo;t that as silly as an ingot of gold saying, &ldquo;Ah-h, this
gold color is mine,&rdquo; as though it&rsquo;s a possession rather than
an inherent quality that could never be absent for a moment without
gold&mdash;the ingot of gold, ceasing to be gold.

You don&rsquo;t have a body. That which you are&mdash;consciousness,
Mind&mdash;always has present that which identifies it. There&rsquo;s no
choice. You can&rsquo;t possess what you are. You can&rsquo;t possess
what is you. But since you think your body is your possession, you take
great care to protect it as though you could lose it. And I promise you,
that the moment anyone passes on they find that they haven&rsquo;t lost
their body. [slight chuckle] How can the visibility and tangibility of
you be lost or possessed or in need of protection&mdash;only if it
isn&rsquo;t truly yours, but you must make it yours&mdash;pure orphan
mentality.

Now, let&rsquo;s continue in the book.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Ownership is a dangerous concept &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and notice it uses the word, concept. It didn&rsquo;t say, a
dangerous thing, as though it were something actual.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Ownership is a dangerous concept if it is left to you. The ego wants to
HAVE things for salvation, for possession is its law.
</div>

Why is possession its law? Because without possession, it&rsquo;s
nothing. From dust to dust. Possession proves that it is something
according to its idiotic mindset.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego wants to HAVE things for salvation, for possession is its law.
Possession for its OWN sake is the ego&rsquo;s fundamental creed&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; possession just for the sake of possession &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is the ego&rsquo;s fundamental creed, a basic cornerstone in
the churches that it builds unto itself.

&hellip; in the churches that it builds unto itself.
</div>

Don&rsquo;t mistake and think it&rsquo;s talking about churches in the
world. The ego turns the body into a temple of its own &hellip; you
know, it sees it as a possession and it claims it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And at ITS altar &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; somewhere right in the center of what you call you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; it demands you lay ALL of the things it bids you get, leaving
you no joy in them.
</div>

How does it do this, or how does this translate in the human experience?
It translates this way: You gain something, you gain possession of
it&mdash;you get it. And then you establish ownership of it. And forever
more, you must protect yourself against its loss. And that&rsquo;s what
insurance companies thrive on. And the fact that you believe that it
still truly is not yours, is what causes you to be sucked into buying
insurance.

And so, daily, as you gain possession of something, you also gain the
inevitability of its loss or the extreme likelihood of its loss, and you
must do something to secure it further. The ego says, &ldquo;You will be
happy with this.&rdquo; And you get it. And it says, &ldquo;Lay it on
the altar, it&rsquo;s not really yours. You can&rsquo;t really have it.
You&rsquo;ve got to protect it, and in protecting it, constantly remind
yourself that you don&rsquo;t really have it!&rdquo; And so the joy of
having it is never truly experienced. That&rsquo;s what that means.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; at ITS altar, it demands you lay ALL of the things it bids you
get, leaving you no joy in them.
</div>

So, you compensate and you accumulate things&mdash;things of value, and
hopefully things of great value. And then, knowing that you will not be
able to forever hold on to it, what do you do? You turn it into&mdash;in
your mind&mdash;a (isn&rsquo;t this is a great word) into a legacy,
which you can hand down to your offspring. Not just something that
allows them, who were born with nothing and will die with nothing, a leg
up, but also as a monument to the power that these accumulations give
whoever owns them, to do good in the world, you see.

So built right into the fact that you can&rsquo;t really own anything
forever, the miserable mindset is given a little bit of awesomeness by
being provided with a larger purpose. And so the offspring, not only
seem to get a leg up in terms of possessions, they also find handed to
them an obligation to do good in the world because they have the means
to do it, whether they wanted it or not, which many of them experience
as burden.

And so, the sense of accumulated wealth and of a legacy being handed on
continues to be a miserable mindset. And I&rsquo;m spelling it out
clearly here for you, so that you might more easily say, &ldquo;Wow
&hellip; yes, how come I didn&rsquo;t see that? Wow &hellip; how come
I&rsquo;m making myself so miserable because I think I don&rsquo;t have
a portfolio or I don&rsquo;t have accumulated wealth?&rdquo; This misery
is as invalid as the misery that accompanies apparently having wealth
that you don&rsquo;t really have.

I&rsquo;m spelling it out so that you might say inside of you that you
have justification for exploring the other world, for abandoning
orphanland, for abanding isolation, self-sufficient independence and
join with your Father and with the Holy Spirit&mdash;which is nothing
more than your right Mind&mdash;so that you might begin to relate to
your brother, not as fellow orphans but as fellow Christs who have not
an inheritance passed down out of the past but a Birthright that is a
result of a current Movement of God right where you are, in which all
that God is, is being embodied for you to be consciously aware of right
here in what appears to be just the world, and which I keep reminding
you is the Kingdom of Heaven.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Everything that the ego tells you that you need will hurt you.
</div>

Every carrot that the ego has you chase after will hurt you because one
way or another, you will never really be able to get it. Even if you
managed to get it for a moment, the ego would demand it from you and let
you know that it is not yours, really.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Everything that the ego tells you that you need will hurt you. For
although the ego urges you again and again to GET, it leaves you
nothing, for what you get it will DEMAND of you.
</div>

Well, what happens? Most of you say, &ldquo;Well Okay, I accept the fact
that I can&rsquo;t take it with me. And I accept the fact that even if I
get it, I might lose it before I arrive at a point of dying, where I
can&rsquo;t take it with me. But, I will narrow down my attention and I
will enjoy whatever brief span of time I have in possession of this. And
I will simply hope that I have brief ownership of many things so that
while I give my specific attention to the having of them, I can feel
good about it and hopefully there will be enough short-lived happiness
that I know isn&rsquo;t true happiness, so that I can manage to tolerate
the time I have until I die and can&rsquo;t take anything with
me.&rdquo;

Not a happy thing to contemplate that I&rsquo;m talking about. But I
want you to see &hellip; I want you to see that you are managing to
gloss over misery. And you don&rsquo;t need to gloss over misery because
there is another way to look at this. There is another world &hellip;
right here. There is another way to see and be right here &hellip; right
now without dying.

Again:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Everything that the ego tells you that you need will hurt you. For
although the ego urges you again and again to GET, it leaves you
nothing, for what you get it will DEMAND of you. And even from the very
hands that grasped it&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning yours &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; it will be wrenched and hurled into the dust.
</div>

Nobody likes to think about it. But there are people who accumulate
things their whole life&mdash;treasures&mdash;maybe not to exhibit great
wealth, but to have in their possession things that they love. And one
night their houses catches fire [snaps fingers] and it&rsquo;s gone.
Where&rsquo;s the permanence? Did you have to die to not be able to take
something with you into the next day? No. I&rsquo;m saying be willing to
take a realistic look: The orphan&rsquo;s world is a miserable world
today, and it&rsquo;s not your Birthright to be experiencing everything
that accompanies its perspective.

If you will stop glossing over the miserable life and acknowledge it as
it is, it will be so much easier for you to say to me&mdash;to the
Christ&mdash;&ldquo;I wish to see and experience everything through your
Vision, which is your gift to me from the Father.&rdquo;

In honest sincerity of being willing to look squarely at misery and call
it misery and not bother to gloss it over, you will find that the energy
and the motivation and the ability to commit is there when you say,
&ldquo;I want to see the Real World, and what I&rsquo;m experiencing now
is not what I want to see!&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For although the ego urges you again and again to GET, it leaves you
nothing, for what you get it will DEMAND of you. And even from the very
hands that grasped it, it will be wrenched and hurled into the dust. For
where the ego sees salvation it sees SEPARATION, and so you lose
whatever you have gotten in its name.
</div>

That&rsquo;s just the way it works in orphanland, in the illusion.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Therefore ask not of yourselves what you need&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning, you as the orphan you think you are, you as the
isolated, separated, independent, autonomous entity that you think you
are &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; ask not of yourselves what you need, for YOU DO NOT KNOW, and
your advice unto yourself WILL hurt you. For what you think you need
will merely serve to tighten up your world AGAINST the light, and render
you unwilling to question the value that this world can really hold for
you.
</div>

And that&rsquo;s exactly what I&rsquo;m intending and attempting to do
tonight, is to cause you to be willing to question the value that this
world&mdash;orphanland, separation&mdash;can really hold for you. If
you&rsquo;re satisfied with it, there won&rsquo;t be any motivation,
nothing in you, no desire to experience a sudden shift of perception.
And that desire in you needs to be nurtured and nourished and
illuminated and enlarged.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Only the Holy Spirit &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; again, that which is nothing more than your right Mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Only the Holy Spirit KNOWS what you need. For He will give you all
things that do not block the way to light. And what else COULD you need?
</div>

What else could you need besides an unblocked way to the light, to
awakening, to revelation, to realization, to coming back into your right
Mind?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; what else COULD you need? In time, He &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; gives you all the things that you need have&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in other words, while you&rsquo;re still not totally Awake and
clear.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In time, He gives you all the things that you need have, and will renew
them as long as you have need of them. He will take nothing from you as
long as you have ANY need of it. And yet He knows that everything you
need is temporary, and will but last until you step aside from ALL your
needs, and learn that all of them HAVE BEEN fulfilled.
</div>

In other words, they never were needs. You will arrive at a point where
you will discover that what you thought you needed has always been
permanently, eternally yours&mdash;inseparable from you. And all that
kept you from experiencing it was that you thought you didn&rsquo;t have
it. You thought it wasn&rsquo;t yours, because you thought you were an
orphan. You thought you had no connection to the eternal and the
infinite. You thought you were just a puny piss-ant little mortal and
you believed what you thought.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Therefore He &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; has no investment in the things that He supplies except to
make certain that you will not use them on behalf of lingering in time.
He knows that you are not at home there, and He wills no delay to wait
upon your joyous home-coming.
</div>

So even if you misinterpret what the Holy Spirit reveals to you and you
use it for delay, the Holy Spirit will not allow it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Leave, then, your needs to Him.
</div>

If you have a need within yourself say, &ldquo;Holy Spirit, it&rsquo;s
going to be really interesting to see how you unfold this &hellip; the
fulfillment of this need as my experience. And it&rsquo;s going to be
even more interesting to find the fulfillment of needs that I
didn&rsquo;t imagine that I had.&rdquo; Needs like, peace of mind that
doesn&rsquo;t hinge on events or circumstances or the behaviors of other
people. The need to be able to abide unswervingly in an experience of
true love&mdash;a real love that isn&rsquo;t dependent upon
circumstances or whether people have earned it, a love that is there
imbuing everything you look at with what it is, in which you never feel
vulnerable, threatened.

It will really be interesting to experience the fulfillment of needs you
didn&rsquo;t know you had. How about the need to simply never be in
fear? You probably wouldn&rsquo;t think to ask for that because
you&rsquo;ve learned to cope pretty damn well with life. But you have a
need to never experience fear, because it is foreign to what you
divinely and truly Are. And therefore, it has never abided in you. It
has never really found a foothold in you. And you, right here in this
lifetime, can live year after year without once experiencing fear.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He will supply them with no emphasis at all upon them.
{: .omit}

What comes to you of Him comes safely, for He will ensure it never can
become a dark spot, hidden in your mind, and kept to hurt you. Under His
guidance you will travel light and journey lightly, for His sight is
ever on the journey&rsquo;s end, which is His goal.
</div>

Now let&rsquo;s not get confused here. The Holy Spirit doesn&rsquo;t see
the journey&rsquo;s end as somewhere down in the future. He sees the
journey&rsquo;s end as the point of perfection that you&rsquo;re already
at&mdash;the actuality of which it&rsquo;s His goal to uncover to you.
So the journey&rsquo;s end is to see yourself as you already
Are&mdash;divinely. And that which is nothing more than your right Mind
is never confused about this, which is why you can dare to lean into It
and give permission for It to guide you, and yield to It a hundred
percent.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God&rsquo;s son is not a traveler through OUTER worlds. However holy his
perception may become, no world outside himself holds his inheritance.
Within himself he HAS no needs&hellip;
</div>

When you stop using your mind to partition conscious experience off into
separate areas, giving those areas definitions for your own ignorant
purposes, you will find that your Mind is infinite&mdash;I mean, all
inclusive&mdash;that your Mind is that, in which all of Creation is
present to be experienced. You are whole within yourself in that sense.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Within himself &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; yourself &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; he HAS no needs, for light needs nothing but to shine in peace,
and from itself to let the rays extend in quiet to infinity.
</div>

Illuminating infinity as indivisible and inseparable from you and
therefore the whole of you&mdash;the Kingdom, that it&rsquo;s the
Father&rsquo;s pleasure to give you all of.

Now that&rsquo;s a very broad grand idea. Something that there&rsquo;s
no way to imagine embracing instantaneously. But you know what? You can
turn your mind around, so to speak, by taking any object, as I&rsquo;ve
said before, anything that confronts you in your experience and saying,
&ldquo;I would like to see the more of what God is Being right here than
I&rsquo;m seeing right now.&rdquo; And you can be looking squarely at a
dandelion or a hummingbird or a fingernail&mdash;anything.

You have to be willing to bring your attention to something other than
the world you&rsquo;ve been committed to&mdash;the mindset you&rsquo;ve
been committed to, the orphanland and the orphanage and the sense of
being an orphan yourself. You&rsquo;ve got to bring your attention to
something beyond that, else there will not be a sudden shift of
perception. There will not be the miracle.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Whenever you are tempted to undertake a foolish journey that would lead
AWAY from light, remember what you really want, and say,

&ldquo;The Holy Spirit leads me unto Christ, and where else would I
go?
</div>

&ldquo;Oh yeah, right. I gotta go down to fourth street and beat up Joe
who insulted my mother last night. Gotta put him in his place,
he&rsquo;ll never learn otherwise.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&ldquo;The Holy Spirit leads me unto Christ, and where else would I
go?
</div>

&ldquo;Oh, I gotta go down and close this deal today&mdash;it&rsquo;s
going to add millions to my portfolio and it&rsquo;s going to allow me
to set up a program for my children and their children that will be the
envy of all the wealthiest men in the world.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&ldquo;The Holy Spirit &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that which is nothing more than your right Mind &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&ldquo; &hellip; leads &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&ldquo;&hellip; unto Christ, and where else would &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&ldquo; &hellip; go?&rdquo;
</div>

What it actually says is:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&ldquo;The Holy Spirit leads me unto Christ, and where else would I
go? What need have I but to awake in Him?&rdquo;
</div>

What need do any of you really have except to Wake up out of the dream,
out of the orphanage, out of orphanland, out of a material world into
the sane conscious experience of Reality that is what you are
misperceiving and calling the orphanage and orphans and orphanland and a
material world.

It&rsquo;s a matter of getting your priorities straight. Because once
your priorities are straight, the energy in you will move toward that
which has the highest priority effortlessly. You won&rsquo;t have to
argue on behalf of moving in that direction. You always move in the
direction of that which has value for you, that which has meaning for
you. It&rsquo;s natural&mdash;it&rsquo;s inevitable.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Then follow Him in joy, with faith that He will lead you safely through
all dangers to your peace of mind that this world sets before you.
</div>

That the orphan mindset sets before you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Kneel not before the altars to sacrifice, and seek not what you will
surely lose. Content yourselves with what you will as surely KEEP, and
be not restless, for you undertake a quiet journey to the peace of God,
where He would have you be in quietness.
</div>

And I&rsquo;m going to add the word, &ldquo;alive.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; where He would have you be &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; alive &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; in quietness.
</div>

Fully conscious in quietness, in peace, in the absence of fear and
anxiety and even excitement. But not in the absence of awe.

You could read this:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Content yourselves with what you will as surely KEEP, and be not
restless, for you undertake a quiet journey to the peace of God, where
He would have you be in quietness.
</div>

You could very well read that to mean: There you are on a slab of marble
&hellip; peaceful, quiet, and I&rsquo;m going to say,
&ldquo;dead,&rdquo; or &hellip; peaceful, quiet, in a state of eternal
bliss in which there is no distinction of anything&mdash;where
it&rsquo;s one infinite amorphous blob of light. But that&rsquo;s not
Creation and that&rsquo;s not being alive to Creation. So I do not want
you to misconstrue what&rsquo;s being said here.

We&rsquo;re talking about arriving at an experience of being alive in
quietness in peace, standing in awe of the Movement&mdash;the current
Movement of Creation&mdash;in which everything is made new without
apprehension, without reluctance, without reservation, without being
on-guard. To be present there in quietness means to be present there in
full open consciousness, truly alive.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In me you have already overcome EVERY temptation that would hold you
back.
</div>

If I have done it, I have done it for you. If I have done it, it has
been done for you. When I did it, the illusion collapsed even though
you&rsquo;re holding on to it. You don&rsquo;t have to do it from
scratch. You don&rsquo;t have to do it over again. All you have to do is
to be willing to acknowledge the possibility that it&rsquo;s already
done and therefore you are not bound like you think you are, and that
the bondage can be abandoned [snaps fingers] now, at any point that
you&rsquo;re willing to abandon it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
We walk together on the way to quietness that is the gift of God.
</div>

Remember that the quietness means such peace that your mind is full
open, embracing infinity without reluctance. The quietness here refers
to an integrity of consciousness or Mind that constitutes
invulnerability&mdash;the absence of anything that could pose or even
suggest the existence of threat.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Hold me dear, for what except your brothers CAN you need? We will
restore to you the peace of mind that we must find TOGETHER. The Holy
Spirit &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your right Mind &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; will teach you to awaken unto us and to yourself. This is the
only REAL need to be fulfilled in time. Salvation FROM the world lies
only here.
</div>

Salvation from the world you made up in the privacy of your solitary
isolated mind. Salvation from that lies only in the joining and letting
someone else into your space.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
My peace I GIVE you. TAKE it of me in glad exchange for all the world
has offered but to take away.
</div>

I have a gift for you: My Vision which God has given me to give to you.
That is my purpose. Ask for my Vision of me. Invite It.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
TAKE it of me &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; my peace &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; in glad exchange for all the world has offered but to take
away. And we will spread it like a veil of light across the
world&rsquo;s sad face&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; orphanland &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; in which we hide our brothers FROM the world, and it from them.
</div>

See: The two worlds&mdash;one of isolation, one of union.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
We cannot sing redemption&rsquo;s hymn alone.
</div>

Therefore, redemption will never be the result of a song you sing in the
orphanage or from the highest mountain peak in orphanland all by
yourself. You&rsquo;ve tried it. You&rsquo;re trying it. It&rsquo;s not
working. Try something new.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
We cannot sing redemption&rsquo;s hymn alone. My task is not completed
until I have lifted every voice with mine. And yet it is NOT mine, for
as it is my gift to you, so was it the Father&rsquo;s gift to me, given
me through His Spirit. The sound of it will banish sorrow from the mind
of God&rsquo;s most holy Son, where it cannot abide. Healing in time IS
needed, for joy cannot establish its eternal reign where sorrow dwells.
You dwell not here, but in eternity. You travel but in dreams while safe
at home.
</div>

You are neither behind the point of perfection nor advancing toward it,
you are at that point and must understand yourself therefrom.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You travel but in dreams while safe at home. Give thanks to every part
of you that you have taught how to REMEMBER you. Thus does the Son of
God give thanks unto his Father for his purity.
</div>

Now there&rsquo;s something that has been shared about the experience of
the state of being when you&rsquo;re not in orphanland, and
there&rsquo;s not a lot you can do with it, is there? Sounds nice, but
what in the heck does it mean? So you see, in a way, it doesn&rsquo;t
really do any good to express a vision of being Awake before
you&rsquo;ve gone into the place within yourself where there is a
willingness to turn your attention away from your current mental habits
of isolation and miserable poverty (even if you&rsquo;re wealthy) to an
act of joining&mdash;an act of invitation to the Christ or God or the
Holy Spirit, and lean into that and be willing to yield into that
&hellip; yield into it like falling into a net. Yield means abandoning
self-directed, autonomous, authoritative thoughts or actions.

Waking up is about reestablishing relationship where autonomy and
independence had held reign before. This is very important. And although
it is very important, it is at the same time very simple.

So this week, I encourage every one of you, as frequently as you can
remember to do it, to say this prayer:

&ldquo;I wish to see and experience everything through your Vision,
which is your gift to me from God.&rdquo;

That prayer is a unifying prayer &hellip; a joining and unifying prayer.
And let that be more important than beating up Joe because he insulted
your mother, or any of the other important things you think you have to
do. Whatever you have to do, do it in the context of wanting to see and
experience it through my Vision which is my gift to you from God. Then
you will bring whatever that event is into the unity and the
relationship which undoes all of the elements of orphanhood and all of
the accompanying illusions.

I do not mean to sound serious, but I am telling you the truth in a
matter of fact way, grounded in my experience of the truth of it that
comes from letting the Father in and yielding to Him.

And lastly, doing this will not lift you into some otherworldly
experience. It will lift you into a transformed experience of everything
you&rsquo;re already familiar with. You will have new eyes and new ears.
And this is a promise.

I look forward to being with you next week, and I love you all.

[^1]: T12.6 Attainment of the Real World

