---
title: Dec 2, 2006
ref: "T12.6 Attainment of the Real World"
alink: "/acim/text/12/chap1206/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

We&rsquo;ve been covering some extremely fundamental important points in
this last chapter and even though we&rsquo;re moving on, I encourage all
of you to bookmark this chapter&mdash;the one we&rsquo;ve just
completed&mdash;and refer to it often. Might I say, study it, refresh
yourself, because as you may well have noticed, it takes everything
we&rsquo;ve been discussing up to this point and translates it into
behavior&mdash;not just a head trip, not just thoughts, not just a
thought system, not wonderful ideas to mull over, but to embody.

If the truth that you are learning about doesn&rsquo;t become embodied
here, now, today, in your life, then you&rsquo;re missing the point. And
I&rsquo;m not going to let you miss the point. Either truth means
something practical, tangible, relevant to your life now, or it is
useless&mdash;it is meaningless. And if you are not insisting in one way
or another upon bringing it into your daily experience so that your
experience is transformed, then what are you doing? What&rsquo;s it all
about?

&ldquo;Oh, I study the Course. Oh, I&rsquo;ve read the Course three
times and it says this and it says that and it says the other
thing.&rdquo; And many of you can talk the Course at length. But you
know what? Until somebody starts talking about the inner shifting that
has occurred, until transformation that has been experienced begins
finding voice rather than just a rehearsal of ideas and quotes, the
function and purpose of the Course is lost&mdash;isn&rsquo;t tapped.

Now, there was a significant statement in what was read last week:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your Father knoweth that you have need of nothing.[^1]
</div>

It is very important for this statement not to be misused.

I want all of you to be willing to consider the degree to which you have
adopted an attitude of lack with a wonderful positive sense:
&ldquo;I&rsquo;m not a millionaire. I don&rsquo;t earn a lot of money. I
struggle &hellip; but you know what? I&rsquo;m happy. I have found a
way to be content without having everything. I can be comfortable in a
relative state of lack. Why gripe about it? It&rsquo;s the way it is. I
know others really go out there and strive to get &hellip; get &hellip;
get &hellip; and acquire wealth and acquire substance and acquire
respect as a result of it! But I&rsquo;m not fooled. I know that&rsquo;s
not where it&rsquo;s at. I know that where it&rsquo;s at is learning how
to be at peace with whatever life gives me, with whatever God decides I
aught to have or not have.&rdquo;

Then there are others who adopt the life of an aesthetic and consciously
renounce&mdash;get this&mdash;renounce the things of the world.
It&rsquo;s a religious act. Lack has become &ldquo;holified,&rdquo;
justified, and &ldquo;not having&rdquo; becomes the possession that
gives the aesthetic worth, because he is doing something worthwhile. You
see how crazy it is?

There are others who live their life on the basis that less is more.
Minimalism would describe that frame of mind. So that you only have
around you essential things, so that you get down to
&ldquo;essence.&rdquo; And essence does not include clutter.

Do you see that to one degree or another, all of you have a basic
mindset in which unlimited abundance holds no promise for you. And not
having unlimited abundance doesn&rsquo;t bother you either.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your Father Knoweth that you have need of nothing.
</div>

&ldquo;Oh, I don&rsquo;t need those trees. I don&rsquo;t need to have a
lawn in my yard. I don&rsquo;t need the stars. I don&rsquo;t need a
beautiful view out my window.&rdquo; You see, it&rsquo;s a process of
denial of everything. &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t need this. I don&rsquo;t need
that.&rdquo; It even gets to the point of saying, &ldquo;It&rsquo;s all
illusion anyway.&rdquo; It&rsquo;s a process of discounting everything
and somehow finding peace and satisfaction in the emptiness&mdash;except
that it&rsquo;s not called emptiness, it&rsquo;s just called bare
essentials.

It&rsquo;s the Father&rsquo;s good pleasure to give you the Kingdom.
[^2] Nothing of what the Father is has He withheld from His
self-expression&mdash;meaning you and all of Creation. Abundance,
wholeness, the absence of lack is characteristic of Creation, it&rsquo;s
characteristic of Being, it&rsquo;s characteristic of existing.

So, let&rsquo;s not honor lack and let&rsquo;s not tolerate lack.

Well, this sort of brings me to the second point I need to bring up. And
that is: What do you do when a problem confronts you? What do you do
when an illness presents itself? Do you just say, &ldquo;Well, I&rsquo;m
going to turn this over to the Holy Spirit &hellip; well, I&rsquo;m
going to turn this over to the Holy Spirit &hellip; tch, tch, Oh,
I&rsquo;m going to turn this over to the Holy Spirit.&rdquo; Do you
think you have no part to play? Even more important, do you think you
had no part to play in the situation you find yourself in, that&rsquo;s
called illness or abuse or depression?

If you find yourself experiencing a pain in your side, does your mind
immediately go to work at the level of thinking and imagine what it
might be or what caused it? Do you behave as though you&rsquo;re an
orphan&mdash;just a hunk of flesh, a body having no source but evolution
and a sperm and a egg? And then do you doctor it, medicate it, treat it
through diet&mdash;in other words, manipulate matter with matter?

After all that we&rsquo;ve been learning, it should be becoming clear
that you have something to do, and it has nothing to do with your
imagination or your thinking. It has to do with your taking steps to
abandon the orphan mentality&mdash;the frame of mind that makes up
things and then believes what it has made up and then binds itself to
whatever the rules are that became involved in the making up of the
situation.

Now, we&rsquo;ve been reading that there are two worlds and one excludes
the other. Well, if the world you&rsquo;re operating in is orphanland,
and you&rsquo;re going around in orphanland, and every Saturday night
you tune into the fireside chat here, and after it&rsquo;s over you go
back to orphanland and bring with you a little bit of inspiration that
makes you feel good but hasn&rsquo;t caused you to abandon the mindset,
then why did you tune in? &hellip; why did you come &hellip; why did you
listen in the first place? &ldquo;Oh, well, if I do something,
that&rsquo;s going to be an assertion of my will. We can&rsquo;t have
that, because that just reinforces the ego&mdash;the orphan
mindset.&rdquo; And so, you sit there immobilized&mdash;stuck.

When you find yourself immobilized through fear or depression or abuse
or an event that has shocked you and insulted you, then you may know
that there is a call for you to get your ass in gear. It is a call to do
something. Just as a nightmare is a call for you to rouse yourself up
out of the dream, and wake up in your bed so that you&rsquo;re free of
the nightmare. Your immobility is the same call for you to bring,
I&rsquo;m going to say this very carefully: The force of will into play
on behalf of the truth about you.

Just because willfulness is a characteristic of the orphan mentality and
it is not an act to engage in if you want to wake up, the will that is
in you that was placed there by the Father&mdash;that will being His
Will, forever His Will, not one that becomes your private possession to
deal with as you choose&mdash;that Will is there for you to act out
from, so that when you are depressed you have the capacity and the
willingness to put forth the effort that it takes to what? Change the
situation? No. To abandon the orphan mentality.

And how do you abandon the orphan mentality? Simple. By choosing for
your peace.

Now, if you find yourself ill, so ill that you can&rsquo;t engage in any
activities, what do you do? Well, even thought it&rsquo;s inconvenient
and it affects your job and it effects your family, you go to bed
don&rsquo;t you&mdash;and you rest and you nurture and care for yourself
kindly in that way. Well, likewise, when you are confronted with
something that is immobilizing you, you must stop your other activities
and sit down and choose for your peace. You must sit down and actively
meditate. You must sit down and do whatever works for you to get you
into the Silence.

Whether there is a throbbing pain in your tooth and jaw, or whether
you&rsquo;re overcome with grief because someone has abandoned you,
whatever it might be, the call is for you to shift and abandon the
orphan mindset&mdash;abandon the isolation, the privateness and the
great personal authority that you&rsquo;ve thought you had &hellip; and
what? Reach out! &ldquo;Oh-h, well, it doesn&rsquo;t do any good&rdquo;
Well? &ldquo;Oh-h, I&rsquo;ve been in bed for five days and I&rsquo;m
not getting any better.&rdquo; See, the argument doesn&rsquo;t stand up
either way. Do it like an orphan does and go to bed, and maybe it
doesn&rsquo;t change right away, but as an orphan, you&rsquo;ll persist.

Well, as a divine Being, you need to persist in choosing for your peace.
Because until you get into your peace, you know what&rsquo;s absent? The
one thing that&rsquo;s causing the problem: Love.

When you&rsquo;re in pain, when you&rsquo;re in grief, when you&rsquo;re
in shock, when you&rsquo;re in depression, always the same element is
there: You don&rsquo;t feel loved. Love is absent from your experience.
Your attention is drawn down to the one focus of whatever the problem
is, and in spite of that fact, if you stop and think about it, you have
had broader experiences in which you know Love has been present and you
know you have expressed Love. Wow, at this moment Love is nowhere around
&hellip; Love is nowhere around for you to receive and certainly you
don&rsquo;t feel like being the presence of Love. And that&rsquo;s the
problem. That is what is causing the hurt.

Now, I haven&rsquo;t said this before, but orphanland is a loveless
land. Privacy, autonomy, is the antithesis of love. Love cannot exist in
that environment. Love doesn&rsquo;t exist in that environment.

Well, don&rsquo;t you suppose that if you are bothered by whatever the
circumstance is, to the point of being immobilized, willing to take no
action and even justifying taking no action because obviously it will be
an exertion of will, don&rsquo;t you think this is exactly the time in
which you need to light a fire under you on purpose, and begin to rouse
yourself to a different point of view&mdash;starting with peace and
it&rsquo;s Silence?

Of course, in order to do that you have to abandon your knee-jerk
response of self-protection. But again, self-protection is an isolated
shielded circumstance in which love can&rsquo;t be given and love
can&rsquo;t be received.

Now, the reason for becoming clear about the miserableness of the orphan
mindset is so that you will have the justification to get a fire under
your ass and do something about it! Again, not in the manipulative way
that orphans do, but in the simple step of abandoning the isolation by
choosing for your peace first. And then reaching out. Because until you
reach out genuinely, you will not experience the influx of Love that
flows to you and through you and beyond, forever, uninterruptedly. And
until you feel that influx, you will not be able to extend It. And
that&rsquo;s the threshold that has to be crossed. And that is, for lack
of better words, the one right use of will that exists.

What? To choose for your peace and reach out and ask for help:

&ldquo;I wish to see and experience everything through your Vision,
Jesus, which is your gift to me from God. I want to abandon the narrow,
tiny, selfish orphan mindset that blinds me completely to the real
world, which is going on right where something else seems to be going on
according to me.&rdquo;

And then you persist.

The immobilization is nothing more than a mesmeric state of
mind&mdash;an obsession with being stuck. And when you&rsquo;re in it,
pay attention. All that goes on in your mind is a rehearsal &hellip; a
rehearsal &hellip; a rehearsal of how bad things are. It almost becomes
automatic, so that even if you give your attention to something else,
the words continue on in your mind in spite of the fact you&rsquo;re
trying to think about something else.

You&rsquo;re not going to break an obsession with immobility by not
doing anything about it. &ldquo;Oh, well, gee, the Course doesn&rsquo;t
say anything about making things happen?&rdquo; Really? What did I say?
Listen. Go into the silence. Reach out beyond your tinyness&mdash;your
tiny frame of mind&mdash;and listen. Listen, learn and do. I promise
you, that not anyone who is Awake, not even God, is going to step in and
change your mind for you. And you are having exactly what you&rsquo;re
choosing to have.

Doesn&rsquo;t the Course constantly talk about &ldquo;The call for
correction?&rdquo; Oh, oh dear, that means something&rsquo;s gotta
happen: Correction. Something is going to happen, something is going to
change. But I promise you, it&rsquo;s not going to change if you
don&rsquo;t make a choice for it.

And what engine or source of energy or power do you have for making a
choice? The power placed in you by God, by virtue of His Being all
there is of you. And when, even though you think you&rsquo;re still a
private orphan, you set your mind to a commitment to joining with the
Holy Spirit or with me, or with the Father, you&rsquo;re making a choice
and it&rsquo;s an act that is perfectly consonant with the will of your
Being that God has placed in you by virtue of His Being all there is
right where you are.

And so you had better bring it into play. Again, not to change the
world, not to change the pain in the side, not to change the abuse, not
to change the depression, but to change the way you&rsquo;re looking at
things&mdash;to change the point of view. And if you don&rsquo;t do
that, you will be caught in an eddy, and you will stay there &hellip;
and stay there &hellip; and stay there &hellip; until finally you do do
something that wrenches you free. So don&rsquo;t waste time.

I&rsquo;ll tell you something: Whether it&rsquo;s a feeling that comes
over you, or a negative attitude that just seems to pop in, or a pain in
your side, whatever it is&mdash;listen to this&mdash;whatever &hellip;
however it presents itself, it&rsquo;s an invitation, not a declaration.
A pain in the side is not a declaration of a fact that you&rsquo;re ill.
It&rsquo;s an invitation to believe that you&rsquo;re ill or that there
is an actual physical problem in a physical body that orphans have
because they&rsquo;re just mortals. And you&rsquo;ve got to challenge
that when it happens and decline the invitation.

First of all, be willing to acknowledge that it is not a declaration of
a fact. It&rsquo;s an invitation to believe something. And then,
decline the invitation. And then, immediately find ways and means to
get into your peace. And once in the quietness of your peace, ask for
help&mdash;not plea&mdash;but simply let the need be known.

Say, &ldquo;I need help!&rdquo; And then expect the resolution to
present itself. And then be willing to act on the basis of the
resolution that has happened, instead of saying, &ldquo;Wow, that was
wonderful but it was a fluke, cause I&rsquo;m still a mortal and I still
have a physical body and some other physical declaration, which is
really only an invitation, can present itself.&rdquo; You see?

And so you have to be careful. You&rsquo;ve got to let everything that
we&rsquo;re talking about budge you off&mdash;move you off your
confidence that you&rsquo;re an orphan, that you&rsquo;re just a human
being, that you&rsquo;re just a body, that you&rsquo;re just an
organism&mdash;so that that is no longer the bottom line basis for all
of your reasoning and thinking and the way you behave, and the way you
respond.

Now this is very important. Because you know, I see very little
movement&mdash;I am not addressing specifically, those of you here or
those of you listening&mdash;but generally speaking, I see very little
actual movement occurring as a result of the study of the Course. Very
little inner transformation. Why? Because no choice is being made for
inner participation in and willingness to acquiesce to the correction
that will follow a genuine request for help.

&ldquo;Oh, well I didn&rsquo;t know that that was what I supposed to be
doing &hellip; Oh, I didn&rsquo;t know that that was the way it worked.
I thought if I sort of submerged myself in the sentences that I was
reading and the truth and bathed in it, that that would do it. You know,
and I could walk through the orphanage at peace experiencing my
divinity.&rdquo;

I&rsquo;m sorry, you can&rsquo;t walk through an orphanage experiencing
your inseparable oneness with the Brotherhood and with the Father and
with the Holy Spirit, which is nothing more than your right Mind.
It&rsquo;s all about leaving the orphanage. It&rsquo;s all about
abandoning the definition&mdash;orphan. It&rsquo;s all about abandoning
the mindset and all of the mutually agreed-upon definitions that have
been established and which you keep in place. You keep them in place by
doing nothing to contradict them at an inner level within you, not
intellectually but, for lack of better words, in your heart, in your
Being.

And so how does this apply to lack, and how does this apply to, you
know, not needing your world? And how does this apply to asceticism, and
how does this apply to satisfaction with &ldquo;little?&rdquo;

Well, any experience of lack is not evidence of the Father&rsquo;s Will.
Therefore, it is not evidence of your Birthright. And you should not be
happy with it, and you should not assume that there is no other choice.
And you must begin to see it as a call for correction. And then, instead
of justifying lack, instead of rehearsing in your mind all of the
reasons for lack, even the lofty reason that God knows what you have
need of and you don&rsquo;t have need for the things you think you do,
all these things are a call for correction. Which means getting up on
your haunches, disagreeing with the presentation, the invitation that
you spontaneously take as a declaration of fact, and then reach beyond
it.

Waking up, coming back into your right Mind, is a call for a change in
your mind. Not you changing your mind according to already existing
criteria, but you willing to be mindful in a new way&mdash;a
non-isolated way. No matter how extreme the justifications seem to be
for maintaining that isolation, the fact is, that the more extreme the
inclination to be isolated, the more will it takes, the more conscious
intent it takes on your part to wrench yourself free from it by reaching
beyond it&mdash;by choosing for something that seems totally
unreasonable in the midst of what seems to be happening. That one first
thing being, choosing &hellip; choosing &hellip; choice &hellip; choice
for your peace, letting your peace be more important than the pain or
the hurt or [said in strained voice] the lack of energy to do anything
at all.

You have to participate in changing your mind by abandoning the use you
have been putting your mind to in favor of putting it in the place of
joining from your peace. &ldquo;Oh, it doesn&rsquo;t work. I&rsquo;ll
just go to the doctor and they&rsquo;ll take out whatever it is and
I&rsquo;ll be done with it!&rdquo; Well, that&rsquo;s a really insane
statement isn&rsquo;t it. I mean, after all, does everybody go into the
hospital and come out on their feet &hellip; alive? &ldquo;Oh, well, no
&hellip; no &hellip; no &hellip; but &hellip;&rdquo; You&rsquo;ve got
all kinds of silly justifications. But it&rsquo;s what everybody does.
It fits into the mutually agreed upon definitions of how to cope with
being a physical body.

Again, there is another way to look at this. There&rsquo;s another way
to respond. There&rsquo;s another basis upon which to act. But until
you adopt that other basis upon which to act, and then act, I promise
you nothing will change.

And when you do, everything will change&mdash;correction will be
embodied. Or, correction will be revealed where the false picturing you
were practicing had seemed to be overlaid upon the visibility and
tangibility of your individuality, which is called your body, and
renders visible and tangible the Movement of God because it is not
material, it is all divine.

How much lack are you going to continue to tolerate without doing
anything? Meaning, without taking steps to abandon the very thing that
is causing your misperception of your body and the Kingdom of Heaven,
which is that you think you are an orphan. You think you are a human
being and that a human being is very different from a divine being, like
angels and ark-angels and Sons of God.

There&rsquo;s always one element present in all problems and that is,
immobilization. You don&rsquo;t feel like challenging it, you
don&rsquo;t feel like having a different point of view than the
distressed one you&rsquo;re having. You don&rsquo;t want to stop
thinking about how awful it is, and how poorly treated your were and how
thoughtless everyone is and then, like I said, the underlying single
element: The absence of love.

You know what? It&rsquo;s a lot more work to try to be an orphan, than
it is to be Who and what you really Are. &ldquo;Oh, I don&rsquo;t know
about that. It&rsquo;s real easy being an orphan. I&rsquo;ve got it
under my belt. But oh, being in my peace no matter what&rsquo;s
happening, now that is not normal&mdash;that is not natural &hellip; at
least not to me.&rdquo;

Well, you just made your choice didn&rsquo;t you? Make a different
choice &hellip; make a different choice. Until you make a different
choice, correction cannot occur. And, nowhere in the Course can you find
a place where it says that correction is not necessary in order to
become free of the dream. What does that mean? It means that correction
is a promise sitting in front of you if you choose to do what opens the
doors to your receiving a new way of seeing things&mdash;a sudden shift
of perception, a M-i-r-a-c-l-e. It&rsquo;s a promise. It&rsquo;s the
way it works. When you&rsquo;re in your right Mind, everything looks
good because it is. When you&rsquo;re not in your right Mind, everything
looks bad even though it hasn&rsquo;t changed from being what it
divinely is: Good.

Now, tonight I certainly haven&rsquo;t said, &ldquo;Get off your ass and
whoop the world.&rdquo; No. I&rsquo;m saying, get a fire under your ass
in your motivation and willingness to make commitment to doing what? The
only thing you have available to you to do and that is change from the
orphan mentality of isolation and autonomy to that of
joining&mdash;letting yourself feel your need for the trees and the
stars and every good thing without limit. And most of all, your brothers
and sisters&mdash;each other.

And in order to let that need be fulfilled, you must ask for help from
the Father or the Holy Spirit to wash the scales from your eyes, the
cobwebs from your mind so that you may clearly see what you have been
unclearly seeing, and experience correction. Wake-up, in other words.

Now, there are those of you who may say, &ldquo;Well, Raj isn&rsquo;t
saying what the Course says, therefore, I&rsquo;m not going to pay any
attention to what he&rsquo;s saying.&rdquo; Fine. Your choice. Is it the
only choice you have available to you? Nevertheless, you will do what
you choose. What I&rsquo;m trying to make clear to you tonight is, that
you are suffering from your choices. And you can be relieved from your
suffering by making new choices or a new choice, that of abandoning your
isolation, your autonomy, the power you have imagined you have gotten
and created for yourself, and let yourself blend in with your brothers
and sisters, the trees, the world, the Universe, so that there
aren&rsquo;t sharp distinctions between you and everything
else&mdash;not only where you feel blended, but where you can also feel
that every little thing is essential to your wholeness and you need it
and you shouldn&rsquo;t be justifying doing without it.

Minimalism is a form of having only that which is essential, which means
having very little and that which clearly expresses perhaps even beauty,
but not beauty that includes much of anything. I&rsquo;m talking about
absolutely everything that exists being essential, essential to your
wholeness, essential to your being, and more correctly put, essential to
Being&mdash;existing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Father Knoweth that you have need of nothing.
</div>

Creation, infinity, eternity is essential to Being&mdash;existing. It is
inseparable from you. It is identical with you. And you are identical
with it. Let this fact sink in. And then, watch the use to which you put
your mind, or we could say, watch the use which your &hellip; you might
put it this way &hellip; which your mind falls into through lack of
attention on your part. And suddenly &hellip; oh, you don&rsquo;t know
what happened but you&rsquo;re depressed. You don&rsquo;t know what
happened but you&rsquo;re pissed off. Nothing looks good. You
don&rsquo;t know what happened but suddenly you feel unloved, and
there&rsquo;s no reason for you to love anything.

That&rsquo;s a result of a careless use of your mind, a practice of
inattentiveness and a forgetfulness of the fact that there&rsquo;s a
word that you can&rsquo;t afford to forget. And that word is: Choice.
And making a choice is an act of will. And the words I&rsquo;ve just
said only have real meaning when it comes down to your making the choice
between two things alone: The Voice for truth, or the voice for
fear&mdash;the orphan mindset, or the joined, embracing awareness that
is consciously being nurtured and practiced on purpose.

Making the choice for orphanhood is not an act of will, but making a
choice for Waking up is. And that act of will is in perfect consonance
with the Father&rsquo;s Will which He has placed in you. And it&rsquo;s
the only act of will that will correct everything.

Don&rsquo;t ever be a passive student of spirituality. Choosing for
peace without correction, or not choosing for peace because what&rsquo;s
the point? Whew! Choice &hellip; choice &hellip; choice &hellip; choice
&hellip; choice &hellip; an act of will &hellip; an act of will &hellip;
an act of will &hellip; an act of will &hellip; an act of will on your
behalf to get you out of the eddy, to get you out of the mesmerism, to
get you out of the obsession with a stupid use of your mind.

In the morning, as a child, your mom or your dad came in and said,
&ldquo;Wake up! Wake up!&rdquo; Don&rsquo;t talk about waking up
anymore. Wake up! It&rsquo;s a choice, it&rsquo;s an act and it takes a
commitment on your part. Make the commitment, act, and your day will
open up to you. Your good will open up to you. It is a promise already
set in place&mdash;an irrevocable promise. A promise that is an act of
love that surpasses anything you can imagine.

[Addresses the audience] You are loved &hellip; you are loved &hellip;
you are loved &hellip; you are loved &hellip; you are loved &hellip; you
are loved &hellip; you are loved &hellip; you are loved &hellip; you are
loved, too &hellip; you are loved. And everyone watching or listening,
you are loved. The promise is already in place for you and has been
sitting there, pregnant, we&rsquo;ll say, with your release ever since
you decided to pretend that you could look at things your way and have
things your way.

So, let this love in. Oh yeah, now I don&rsquo;t mean,
&ldquo;Ah-h,&rdquo; sort of bask back in a chase lounge [sighing] and
let the love in. Bullshit. It&rsquo;s not gonna come in until you make
the choice to let it in, until you make the choice to want it, until you
make the choice to let correction happen within you so that you are a
new man and a new woman by comparison with the miserable orphan you
thought you were.

So, enough said. I look forward to being with you next week.

[^1]: T12.6 Attainment of the Real World
[^2]: Bible Luke 12:32
