---
title: May 11, 2013
ref: T19.6 The Obstacles to Peace, The Second Obstacle
alink: "/acim/text/19/chap1906/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who is joining us on the internet.

Well, for the last couple of weeks we&rsquo;ve been talking about Love.
And as you know, at the end of each meeting I always say, &ldquo;I love
you all.&rdquo;

Now I want you to understand that that isn&rsquo;t some polite courtesy
that I&rsquo;m extending to you. Love is very intimate. Love comes from
the depth of me to the depth of you. It comes from the holiness of me to
the holiness of you&mdash;from the very center of me to the very center
of you at the most fundamental levels of our Being. It&rsquo;s
significant.

And what you learn in the practice of the holy instant as you are
establishing a holy relationship with your Brother or Sister, is that
revealed to you is an unbelievably full experience of why your Brother
is loveable or your Sister, and that you have in you the capacity to
love with that incredible Love.

You know, we have been talking about the Obstacles to Peace, peace being
obviously something significant enough that it&rsquo;s important to
understand what the obstacles to it are so that they can be
released&mdash;released so that peace is your experience.

Why? Because it&rsquo;s more comfortable than pain? Because it&rsquo;s
an occasional nice diversion from excitement or because it doesn&rsquo;t
provide the challenges that wear you out?

No. Peace is itself the absence of fear and guilt. Again, peace is the
absence of fear and guilt. It isn&rsquo;t something you use to get rid
of fear and guilt. It&rsquo;s something which when you access it, puts
you in a place where fear and guilt are simply not present.

This is important.

It means that you don&rsquo;t have to engage in digging out guilt and
fear where they&rsquo;re harbored within you and do something to get rid
of them. In so many words, you can forget about them and give your
attention to meditation&mdash;to the practice of the holy instant where
you shut up! That means go into the Silence&mdash;the absence of
thinking, the absence of fretting, the absence of worrying. It&rsquo;s a
simple choice, which you can make simply. And when you make it, fear and
guilt are absent. You see?

That&rsquo;s the importance of peace. Peace is not only the nature of
Being, it is for you in your process of Awakening, the threshold of the
miracle&mdash;the threshold of insight, the threshold of Revelation.
That&rsquo;s why it&rsquo;s something to be practiced deliberately. It
is the way you can deliberately Wake up.

Now when you go into the Silence and you experience peace, as
we&rsquo;ve talked about, you experience the Presence of Love loving you
and teaching you about your loveableness and your Brothers and Sisters.
It puts you in the truly intimate relationship with your Brother and
Sister that is called, &ldquo;a holy relationship.&rdquo;

This intimate Love is far different from the casual forms of love that
are generally practiced. Why? Because this Love is illuminated in you by
God. He illuminates the Presence of Himself as Love in you uncovering to
you your eternal nature, uncovering to you what is eternally true about
you in a manner that you can grasp the true meaning of.

This is again, very intimate.

So peace unites what has always been One&mdash;the infiniteness of God.
It unites It as your conscious experience of Being. And it&rsquo;s
called &ldquo;Awakening.&rdquo; It&rsquo;s called, &ldquo;you coming
back into your right Mind.&rdquo;

Now going into the book:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have paid very dearly for your illusions, and nothing you have paid
for brought you peace.[^1]
</div> 

And of course, the reason it never brought you peace was because you
were trying to do it by yourself. God wasn&rsquo;t brought into the
picture. That which is the infinite eternal Love that can reveal
infinite eternal Love in you wasn&rsquo;t brought into the picture. You
see?

It&rsquo;s simple and it&rsquo;s dependable. Because if you do bring God
into the picture, there is the inevitable result of the revealing of the
truth about you and your Brothers and Sisters and all of Creation.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Are you not GLAD that Heaven cannot be sacrificed, and sacrifice cannot
be asked of you? There IS no obstacle which you can place before our
union&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning, yours and mine &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; for in your holy relationship &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; with your Brother or Sister &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; I am there already.
</div>

Remember I said just in the last two weeks, that I was with you before
you drew your first breath. We have always been united because that is
the way God created Creation. That&rsquo;s the infinite intimacy of
Creation, which awaits your experience.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There IS no obstacle which you can place before our union, for in your
holy relationship &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; with your Brother &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; I am there already. We will surmount all obstacles together, .
</div>

&hellip; you see? You don&rsquo;t have to prove yourself by
accomplishing it all by yourself. You cannot! The dream is the evidence
of trying to do it independently. But you know what? There&rsquo;s great
joy in embarking on the discovery of Reality together and sharing it
together because Creation and Being is an infinite intimacy.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
We will surmount all obstacles together, for we stand within the gates,
and not outside.
</div>

See, we stand within the inclusiveness of God, not outside of it as an
independent orphan. You see? Our relationship &hellip; your relationship
with all of your Brothers and Sisters, if you were seeing them truly,
would reveal to you that they&rsquo;re all going on within the context
of God&mdash;within the Arena of God&rsquo;s Love. It&rsquo;s always
been that way. It never got changed. But you began to ignore it giving
preference to imaginative definitions of Creation and having fun with
the sometimes weird and perverse and uniquely creative distortions of
Reality that you could come up with. But it never, never change.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
How easily the gates are opened from within, to let peace through to
bless the tired world!
</div>

You see? This is the purpose of peace. This is the effect of peace and
it&rsquo;s why the obstacles to peace must be abandoned. The blessing of
the tired world is the effect of peace engaged in, abided in and
committed to.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Can it be difficult for us &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; us, us together&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; us to walk past barriers together, when you have joined the
limitless?
</div>

Together we will find no reason to even be curious about the barriers or
even comment on how ridiculous they are or how mean-spirited or
destructive they are. We can walk by them in our peace without
responding to them at all. Because they serve no purpose, therefore are
meaningless, therefore are not real and therefore were illusions that
fooled us for a time.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The end of guilt is in your hands to give. Would you stop now to look
for guilt in each other?
</div>

It&rsquo;s an important question.

If you can hand the end of guilt to your Brothers, your Sisters, to the
world, why would you waste your time looking for guilt in your Brothers
and Sisters?

Just look at the starkness of it and the idiocy of it. You want to give
the end of guilt. Every child of God does. It&rsquo;s not in his genes,
it&rsquo;s in his Being. It&rsquo;s in your Being. No matter how often
you find justification to block peace, it is not what you want! It is
not what is built into your Being. You need to know that so that you
can assess yourself truly and beneficially. And so that it&rsquo;s easy
to abandon the practice of guilt, either on others or on yourself.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Let me be to you the symbol of the END of guilt&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; let me be something more than a historical figure in your past.
Let me be the living Brother that I am now &hellip; now &hellip; now
&hellip; in this moment &hellip; in this moment. And let the joining be
fully intimate.

Well, if you&rsquo;re going to do that, it means you&rsquo;re going to
let yourself be completely defenseless with me. Without any defense
whatsoever, our joining is total &hellip; intimate &hellip; purely
intimate.

And when you let that happen, when you let that experience in, it is a
holy experience unlike any other that you&rsquo;ve ever had.
There&rsquo;s no escaping its Meaning. And there&rsquo;s no way for you
to be fooled any longer about being an orphan, or about being on your
own, or about being unloved, or about being unworthy.

Let me be to you something more than that historical figure in your past
who happened to express some wonderful ideas.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Let me be to you the symbol of the END of guilt, and look upon each
other as you would look on me.
</div>

Look upon the others that you&rsquo;ve established a holy relationship
with, as you would look on me.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Forgive me all the sins you think the Son of God committed. And in the
light of your forgiveness, he will remember who he is, and forget what
never was.
</div>

This is the blessing of the holy instant. This is the blessing of
choosing for your peace.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; in the light of your forgiveness, [your Brother] will remember
who he is, and forget what never was. I ask for your forgiveness, for if
you are guilty&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; as you believe you are &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; so must I be.
</div>

Is that clear? You cannot believe that you are guilty and believe I am
not guilty. What you believe about yourself you project indiscriminately
on everything and everyone.

But I will tell you this: You do hold a certain reservation in the
enthusiasm with which you project your guilt on me. And as a result, you
are able to conceive that maybe I did overcome all sin and everything
that would have made me guilty. And that little weakness in your resolve
as to how you project your self-assessment out on your world will allow
you to experience me as guiltless.  

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I ask for your forgiveness&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; don&rsquo;t think it is silly. If you think you need to be
forgiven, then you think I need to be forgiven.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I ask for your forgiveness, for if you are guilty, so must I be. But if
I surmounted guilt and overcame the world, YOU were with me.
</div>

You see? I was with you before you drew a breath. You were with me
before you drew a breath.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; if I surmounted guilt and overcame the world, YOU were with me.
</div>

There&rsquo;s that unalterable, invariable intimacy. It&rsquo;s a fact.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Would you see in me the symbol of guilt, or of the END of guilt,
remembering that what I signify to you you see within YOURSELF?
</div>

Okay, here it is simply put: How you see yourself must be the way you
see me. But how you see me must be the way you see yourself. So what
vantage point are you going to choose? Then choose it! Make the
decision! Abide by the decision. Monitor your thoughts and don&rsquo;t
indulge in ideas or feelings that don&rsquo;t arise out of the vantage
point&mdash;out of my vantage point. You see?

That&rsquo;s how you transform yourself. Not by changing you, but by
giving your attention to me and embracing my innocence&mdash;making the
gift of forgiveness to me. In the light of your forgiveness (I&rsquo;m
paraphrasing here) you will remember who you are and forget what never
was. It&rsquo;s a principle. It&rsquo;s absolute.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
From your holy relationship &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the one you have cultivated with your Brother or Sister, which
has justified your abandoning the obstacles to peace &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; truth proclaims the truth, and love looks on itself.
</div>

Let&rsquo;s go back.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
From your holy relationship &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; with your Brother or Sister &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; truth proclaims the truth&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; truth from the depths of you that has been illuminated in you
proclaims the truth. And the truth in your Brother recognizes the truth.
You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and love &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; from the very depths of you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; looks on itself.
</div>

&hellip; in your Brother or Sister. So let me read it again:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
From your holy relationship truth proclaims the truth, and love looks on
itself.
</div>

It&rsquo;s singular, unconflicted, embodying peace infinitely.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Salvation flows from deep within the home you offered to my Father and
to me.
</div>

What? You said, &ldquo;Father, what is the truth here?&rdquo; Ah
&hellip; you made a place for the Father by inviting the Father in to
share His infinite perspective because you were interested in it once
again. You made a place for the Father and you make place for those who
are Awake&mdash;that includes me.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Salvation flows &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; not from us, but &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Salvation flows from deep within the home you offered to my Father and
to me.
</div>

What is this &ldquo;thing&hellip;&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; deep within the home&hellip;
</div>

It&rsquo;s the Alter in you. It&rsquo;s the undefended, unprotected
presence of the holy one that you Are, even though when you offered it
at first you didn&rsquo;t know it was the truth about you. But the
moment you said, &ldquo;Father, what is the truth here? Jesus, what is
the truth here? Holy Spirit, what is the truth here?&rdquo; you, from
deep within, made room there for wholeness to become Real to you again.

One more time:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Salvation flows from deep within the home you offered to my Father and
to me. And we are there together, in the quiet communion in which the
Father and the Son are joined.
</div>

Intimacy again &hellip; the intimacy of Love which inspires and
illumines the Reality of you, the divine Reality of you, the Holiness of
you. You see, to shut up and ask, &ldquo;What is the truth here?&rdquo;
to go into the quietness of the holy instant is not just the absence of
stress, [chuckling] it&rsquo;s the Presence of God experienced by you,
uncovering your Birthright to you, your inheritance to you, your
divinity to you. And it changes everything for you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Oh come ye faithful to the holy union of the Father and Son in you!
</div>

That&rsquo;s the benefit of the holy instant, of the practice of the
two-step.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And keep you not apart from what is offered you, in gratitude for giving
peace its home in Heaven.
</div>

When you are infilled with the Love of the Father, do not keep yourself
apart from It in anyway. Just don&rsquo;t! Let It fill you. Let It
overflow you. Let It pick you up and carry you in the strength of
It&rsquo;s strong currents. And don&rsquo;t ever try again to get your
authority back.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Send forth to all the world the joyous message of the end of
guilt&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and what? Not what you would expect &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and all the world will answer.
</div>

Again:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Send forth to all the world the joyous message of the end of guilt, and
all the world will answer.
</div>

What&rsquo;s another way of describing the end of guilt? The presence of
Peace. And another way? The presence of Love. But listen:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Send forth to all the world the joyous message of the &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the presence of peace&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
 &hellip; and all the world will answer.
</div>

That means the world will answer in acknowledgement of the Meaning of
the Peace that you&rsquo;re offering. That is the only thing that is
going to eradicate war. &ldquo;Oh, but you know, I&rsquo;ve tried that
and it didn&rsquo;t work.&rdquo;

No. You have never tried that. You have never tried that without an ace
up your sleeve or a backup plan &hellip; &ldquo;Well, if this
doesn&rsquo;t work, then I&rsquo;m going to have to do that. I&rsquo;ll
try it but first I will get my plans laid out so that I can be
protected.&rdquo;

Now, this Peace that we&rsquo;re talking about extending is the Peace
that is given to you, that infills you as a Gift from the Father. And so
this Peace that you extend to the world, that you send forth to all the
world is partnered, we&rsquo;ll say, with the Father. It is not some
puny little personal gift of a tiny ego on the face of a huge planet
with thousands, millions of different wills&mdash;conflicting wills.

Remember this:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Send forth to all the world the joyous message of the &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; end of guilt or &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the joyous message of &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; Peace, or &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the joyous message of &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; Love &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
 &hellip; and all the world will answer.
</div>

That&rsquo;s why you have to decide that it&rsquo;s worth it to you to
ask of the Father, &ldquo;What is the truth?&rdquo; . . to listen for
the answer and then to act on the answer and to stay with the inquiry as
the answer is extended and embellished and clarified and made ever new
in its transformational effect.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Think of your happiness as everyone offers you witness of the end of
sin&hellip;
</div>

You see? [chuckling] How many of you have thought of that? On the other
hand, how many of you have thought that you&rsquo;re not likely to be
happy because no one is going to offer &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you witness of the end of sin&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; they&rsquo;re too dedicated to their small minded, mean
spirited, ego concepts &hellip; right? I know that&rsquo;s a familiar
thought. But here is a new one:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Think of your happiness as everyone offers you witness of the end of
sin, and shows you that its power is gone forever.
</div>

Now either these words are nothing but bullshit or they mean the truth!
And I encourage you to accept that they mean the truth and use them and
practice them as though they do. It will bring purpose to your
existence. And in your practice of them you will see the effect that is
described here. And then you will experience &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; happiness as everyone offers you witness of the end of sin, and
shows you that its power is gone forever. Where can guilt be, when the
belief in sin is gone?
</div>

Exactly! Where can guilt and fear be when you undo the divorce you got
from the Father? Only getting the divorce caused guilt and fear to come
into play. But join again with you Father and He reveals your Birthright
to you in terms you can&rsquo;t deny. And in the absence of orphanhood,
there is no guilt and fear present and your world will not reflect back
to you that sin is real. This is truth!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Where can guilt be, when the belief in sin is gone? And where is death,
when its great advocate is heard no more?

Forgive me your illusions&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; forgive me the illusions you project on me. Forgive your world
the illusions you project on it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Forgive me your illusions, and release me from punishment for what I
have not done. So will you learn the freedom that I taught by teaching
freedom to each other, and so releasing me.
</div>

Let&rsquo;s hear that again:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
So will you learn the freedom that I taught by teaching freedom to each
other, and so releasing me. I am within your holy relationship&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning with your Brothers and Sisters, with anyone you care
enough to engage in a holy relationship with. Which means joining with
the Father before you act in consonance with your partner, so that it is
you and the Father behaving in the relationship rather than puny little
ego you, all by yourself, trying to do the best you can, trying to be as
loving as you can, but always under the shadows of fear and guilt.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I am within your holy relationship, yet you would imprison me behind the
obstacles you raise to freedom, and bar my way to you.
</div>

It&rsquo;s true. When you can&rsquo;t hear me you&rsquo;re blocking it.
You have some reason not to hear me that you prefer. And when you
finally yield, when you finally soften and ask of me, and have no
objection, you will hear me. I answer constantly. But you won&rsquo;t
hear me unless you let go of the resistance you have to hearing me.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I am within your holy relationship, yet you would imprison me behind the
obstacles you raise to freedom, and bar my way to you. Yet it is not
possible to keep away One Who is there already.
</div>

Important for you to remember that. I am intimately with you already in
every single moment, in every little corner of your conscious awareness.
I&rsquo;m there already. So you can&rsquo;t keep me away, but you can
ignore me. But because all you&rsquo;re doing is ignoring me, we can
connect the moment you decide to&mdash;truly the moment you decide to.
And I invite you to decide to immediately.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; it is not possible to keep away One Who is there already. And
in Him it IS possible that our communion, where we are joined already,
will be the focus of the new perception that will bring light to all the
world, contained in YOU.
</div>

That&rsquo;s the blessing and the meaning of intimacy. And it&rsquo;s
the outcome of not blocking Peace anymore.

Everyone is on the way out &hellip; everyone is on their way out of
conflict and into Peace. It&rsquo;s the Movement. It is happening. Make
it comfortable by not resisting it and by consciously embracing it. And
as you do, remember that there is an intimacy of unfathomable depth
between you and me, between you and the Father, between you and the Holy
Spirit and between you and every single one of your Brothers and Sisters
even though they don&rsquo;t know it at the moment and can&rsquo;t join
you consciously like I can and the Father can and all those who are
already Awake can, including every single one of your Guides.

I invite you during the coming week to remember that you&rsquo;re
present in an intimate, holy relationship. And reach for me often,
defenselessly.

I love you very much and I look forward to being with you next time.

[^1]: T19.6 The Obstacles to Peace, The Second Obstacle

