---
title: May 20, 2013
ref: T19.7 Pleasure and Pain
alink: "/acim/text/19/chap1907/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

We&rsquo;re reading about the Obstacles to Peace and how to overcome
them.

Tonight it&rsquo;s going to be my goal to bring home the practicality of
what we&rsquo;re reading. Many of you have been studying the Course for
many years. What I want to be very clear to you, is that the Course is
not a philosophy. It is not a set of ideas that are pacifying, that give
you a good warm fuzzy feeling and allow you to function in the world
with more ease.

The Course is, at the bottom line, about changing&mdash;about being in
the world in a new way, where your behavior is not what it used to be.
To have changed thoughts with no changed behavior means you&rsquo;re not
in a position to make any contribution, whatsoever, to the world.

But listen to what we ended up with last week:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I am within your holy relationship, yet you would imprison me behind the
obstacles you raise to freedom, and bar my way to you. Yet it is not
possible to keep away One Who is there already.
</div>

Important! And to repeat myself, I was there before you took your first
breath. I have been with you since the &ldquo;Beginning.&ldquo; I cannot 
be barred and you cannot decide to let me in. I&rsquo;m here. I am with 
you. You and I are together, whether you are paying attention or not.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; it is not possible to keep away One Who is there already. And
in Him it IS possible that our communion, where we are joined already,
will be the focus of &hellip;
</div>

What?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the new perception that will bring light to all the world,
contained in YOU.
</div>

You&rsquo;re here to join with me and bring light to all the world. How?
By means of new behavior&mdash;behavior elicited from our communion, our
relationship. This means that your behavior is going to be different
from the accepted behaviors of the world. If they&rsquo;re not, there
will be no transformation. It&rsquo;s that simple.

Now, today was a day of tragedy of, we will say, cataclysmic natural
weather events which caused much tragedy. And for those of you who
watched the media keeping track of the developments, I would be willing
to bet that you didn&rsquo;t keep your peace. I would be willing to bet
that you didn&rsquo;t feel that your peace was more important than
anything else&mdash;the reason being epitomized in a popular statement
which says: &ldquo;If you&rsquo;re not upset or disturbed, you
don&rsquo;t understand the situation.&rdquo;

Obviously, if you chose for your peace and, as a result of that choice,
found yourself where fear and guilt were not occurring, where peace was
present, that would be the equivalent of demonstrating that you
didn&rsquo;t understand the situation and, therefore, you could not
possibly be able to function in a truly helpful, compassionate way.

It&rsquo;s not true. The opposite is what is true. Without your peace
you cannot be a transformational presence. Without your peace, you do
not have the presence of Mind&mdash;because it&rsquo;s overridden with
by emotion&mdash;to know what would transform, heal and correct the very
situation that seems to call for you to be upset in order to be truly
helpful&mdash;in order for you to be a sensitive human
being&mdash;something you don&rsquo;t want to lose the capacity to be.

But if being a sensitive human being means you lose your cool, means you
lose your balance and all you can do is sort of collapse in a heap along
with everyone else who is in the midst of the drama and the trauma,
you're useless. You&rsquo;re not able to fulfill your purpose of
&ldquo;bringing light to all the world.&rdquo;

Now, let&rsquo;s be very clear: When you choose for your peace and you
abandon those things which are obstacles to your peace, you come into a
state of inner balance. Not a state of incapacity, not a state of
stupidity, but a state of natural spontaneous intelligence. And you will
know exactly what the practical things to do are &hellip; what will meet
the human need: How to bind up the wounds, how to be truly supportive,
how to be involved in a manner which those being helped recognize as
being imbued with Light, imbued with Love that is beyond their momentary
loss and fear and trauma. And they feel it and are blessed. Light is
brought into the world.

I am talking here in very practical, I&rsquo;m going to say,
&ldquo;physical terms&rdquo; of providing comfort, or for giving your
attention to desiring that comfort be provided and, in the state of
inner balance that I&rsquo;m talking about, knowing that it is the
Father&rsquo;s good pleasure to give peace, to give healing, to undo the
illusion of something claiming that fear, guilt are justified&mdash;that
being upset is justified.

And so you will not become insensitive, but more sensitive at the level
of the immediate human need as well as the larger scope of awareness of
divine Reality that every single one involved in the drama and trauma is
still embraced by and governed by. And by which they can have a
transformed experience immediately because God loves them, and they are
what God created them to be, not what they believe themselves to be.
They are more.

Now we mentioned that the starting point&mdash;in other words, the
measuring stick that you should have been bringing to your observation
of the events as broadcast in the media, should have brought into play
that the starting point is that &ldquo;God, Spirit, is all-in-all, and
there is no other might nor Mind.&rdquo; That which seemed to be a
cataclysmic weather system does not have more power than the might and
Mind that is God, Spirit.

This, I&rsquo;m going to say &ldquo;mental stance&rdquo; is what the
Course is leading everyone to, so that you do not succumb to the
interpretations and the definitions that everyone on the media are
supplying, and which are molding your emotions and your reactions.

Now here&rsquo;s the radical standpoint. Here&rsquo;s where you will be
in a new way: It is by understanding, for example, that being mortal is
a behavior, not a condition. Again, being mortal is a behavior, not a
condition. And conversely, being holy is a condition, not a behavior.

You must be willing to stand with yourself and your brother on the basis
that you are holy and holiness is your condition&mdash;not a behavior
you can adopt. And that mortality is not a condition of yours, but is a
behavior you use to misrepresent yourself, and which it&rsquo;s time for
you to stop using because the misrepresentation of yourself is not
transformational.

Now, in the section:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*Pleasure and Pain*[^1]

Your little part is but to give the Holy Spirit the whole IDEA of
sacrifice.
</div>

Don&rsquo;t try to do something with the feeling of sacrifice you have
when you decide to do the two-step and yield to the Father. Abandon it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your little part is but to give the Holy Spirit the whole IDEA of
sacrifice.
</div>

Just put it on the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s doorstep and turn your back on it
and walk away!

Sacrifice &hellip; well, when you practice the two-step, you actively
engage in a practice of choice. You make a choice between two things:
One is abandoning what you call your free will, and the other is,
yielding to or surrendering to the Father. It&rsquo;s that sense of
sacrifice that you need to just stop giving your attention to.
It&rsquo;s not something to figure anything out about. Abandon it so
that you can surrender to God.

That&rsquo;s being in the world in a new way.

Now what does the word &ldquo;surrender&rdquo; mean? Yield. But more
specifically, &ldquo;surrender&rdquo;&mdash;what does it mean? It means
&ldquo;to yield to the power or possession of another.&rdquo; In other
words, it means to let God have the power and to let yourself be His
Possession. That&rsquo;s the sacrifice that you see. You&rsquo;re going
to give up yourself, you&rsquo;re going to give up your right to have
your own perceptions&mdash;your own perceptions of what constitute
pleasure and pain, for example &hellip; among other things.

It&rsquo;s insulting to the ego and we&rsquo;ve talked about it before.
It&rsquo;s insulting to the ego to surrender&mdash;to yield to the Power
of the Father, to let yourself be the Father&rsquo;s possession &hellip;
which means your giving up your right to have an independent
self-assertive standpoint from which to be.

But here&rsquo;s the incredible truth: When you surrender to the Father,
when you let yourself become the Father&rsquo;s possession and you are
captive, when you surrender to the Father by asking Him what to do, or
what is the truth here? He will release you. When you let yourself be
the captive of God, God will release you from your
captivity&mdash;meaning that you will find yourself being in a new way
and, for lack of better words, at a new &ldquo;level&rdquo; in which
everything you do is in harmony with Creation and in harmony with the
ongoing creativity of the Father, causing you to experience not only no
loss, but &ldquo;infinite gain,&rdquo; for lack of better words.

This is important. Think about it:

When you surrender to the Father and become the Father&rsquo;s captive
by asking Him&mdash;by genuinely asking Him&mdash;what to do, and then
listening for and accepting the answer, He will release you. Now you
will be free of the captivity of the self you thought you became when
you got your divorce from the Father. You see? And you become released
from the captivity that you thought you were entering into by
surrendering to the Father.

Now in your release, the Holy Spirit is not separate from you. That
which is nothing more than your right Mind, is now your right Mind.
This experience is what is embodied in the practice of the holy instant.

But again, it&rsquo;s going to mean that you&rsquo;re going to have to
be in a new way right here in the world. And so it is going to seem to
create difference between you and your Brothers. But since the
difference will not arise out of the ego, it will be experienced as a
blessing. It will be experienced as a blessing and others will grow from
it.

Now, doing this requires discipline. It requires you to be willing to
stand in the face of threat, in the face of disaster and move through it
with intelligence, groundedness, and a love that is not distorted by
fear or anxiety or great emotional reaction. And you&rsquo;re not used
to this. You&rsquo;re not used to facing into the call for intelligence
when unintelligence seems to be governing, or the call for
&ldquo;meeting the need&rdquo; when the need seems to be so overwhelming
that it can&rsquo;t be met.

You are not here to study the Course to become ineffective, dreamy,
happily doing nothing when needs need to be met, (said facetiously)
&ldquo;because you know they&rsquo;re not real and therefore nothing
really needs to be done and knowing that it&rsquo;s not real is all
that&rsquo;s required &hellip;&rdquo;

That is not transformational! And as I&rsquo;ve said before you
can&rsquo;t get into the Kingdom of Heaven by yourself. You&rsquo;ve got
to bring your Brothers with you. Which means you&rsquo;ve got to get
involved with your Brothers in a transformational way.

Now, pleasure and pain: &ldquo;Oh, one man&rsquo;s pain may be another
man&rsquo;s pleasure.&rdquo; Psychologically speaking, one man may hate
to work on cars and fix them and modify them, and another man may love
it. It is his greatest pleasure. Another man may hate to work in the
fields, while another man gets great pleasure from it. Even the same
man, as a young man working for his father on the farm, may find it
painful to engage in the labor of farming. And as he matures and begins
to find the value and meaning of it, that very same person begins to
take great pleasure in it.

So, here is the thing: Pain and pleasure are learned. They&rsquo;re not
absolute and they are not arising out of the infinite stability of
Creation. They are not a part of what God has made. Don&rsquo;t put such
great value on pain and pleasure.

Learn to look at your Brothers and Sisters with attentiveness to their
needs so that it is their needs that you attend to by going into and
practicing the holy instant. Then neither pain nor pleasure will be the
result, but fulfillment will be, and it will never be solitary or
private.

But again, this will not happen unless a stand is taken, unless a choice
is made where you stand in the face of need, whether it is severe or
catastrophic or minimal, and care enough to surrender to God.

Let yourself become His captive. Let Him own you because you are His
offspring&mdash;you are Him in expression. And in doing that, you will
be transformational and you will contribute to bringing Light to all the
world, which is the point! If you are not doing anything to bring Light
to all the world, then you are missing the opportunity for fulfillment
beyond your wildest dreams and your very existence is rendered
meaningless, unfulfilling, because the Father&rsquo;s Love, the
Father&rsquo;s clarity is finding no extension through you.

Again:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your little part is but to give the Holy Spirit the whole IDEA of
sacrifice. And to accept the peace He gave instead, without the limits
which would hold its extension back, and so would limit YOUR awareness
of it.
</div>

You&rsquo;re not here to hold His extension back and &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; limit YOUR awareness of it.
</div>

You&rsquo;re here to be the &ldquo;throughput,&rdquo; you might
say&mdash;that which allows it to flow into expression. And what you
give you get to keep. It&rsquo;s a law. It&rsquo;s just the way things
work.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For what He gives must be extended, if you would have its limitless
power, and use it for the Son of God's release.
</div>

You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; use it for the Son of God's release.
</div>

Well I tell you, you&rsquo;re not going to be able to use it for the Son
of God&rsquo;s release if you are upset and disturbed and think that
because of that you understand the situation. You use it for the Son of
God&rsquo;s release by not understanding the situation of terror and
destruction and loss of loved ones, or any other lesser manifestation of
tragedy, of distress.

It doesn&rsquo;t have to be the sort of thing that happened today
that&rsquo;s in the news. It&rsquo;s happening everywhere, as a
financial crisis, as lack of jobs, as peoples lives deteriorating and
falling apart because there isn&rsquo;t enough creativity being allowed
that would generate the extension of that which meets needs and would
therefore generate income.

There are distressing things&mdash;monumentally distressing
things&mdash;that are much quieter than a tornado. And all of these
things call for your being able to abandon the obstacles to peace. Why?
So that in the presence of the turmoil and the catastrophe you have your
peace and therefore the presence of mind&mdash;you know, that Mind which
is the only might or Mind&mdash;to look at the situation and address it
with such intelligence that it reduces fear and inspires constructive
action by those who were devastated and, as a result, giving them hope.
See? But it happens by not agreeing with the situation. It happens by
being in a new way, a way that you become aware of when you surrender to
the Father in the holy instant. You see?

The holy instant isn&rsquo;t just a nice meditation in which you become
quiet and peaceful and in that peace you ask sweetly, &ldquo;Father,
what is the truth here.&rdquo; Or you ask to know what needs to be done,
what holy thing can you do, what can you do that represents the holy Son
of God for your Brother so that you might feel good. It&rsquo;s a lot
more active and focused than that. And it requires that you put yourself
in the position of being in a new way that opens the door to fulfillment
that is new to you and therefore is transforming to everyone else. That
is the wonder of it. That is the miracle of the Course In Miracles.
That&rsquo;s the point.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; what He gives must be extended, if you would have its limitless
power, and use it for the Son of God's release. It is not this you would
be rid of, and having it you CANNOT limit it. If peace is homeless, so
are you and so am I. And He Who is our home is homeless WITH us.

[Repeats] It is not this [that] you would be rid of&hellip;
</div>

It isn&rsquo;t something, perhaps, that you&rsquo;ve thought about
taking hold of, even though you may not have ever thought about getting
rid of it. But in order to have the limitless power of the gift of Love
extended, you must use it for your Brother&rsquo;s release. This is not
something you would actually be rid of. You wouldn&rsquo;t choose to be
rid of it. You can&rsquo;t choose to be rid of it, because then it would
mean that peace would be homeless. And peace cannot be homeless.
Therefore, it never has been homeless. And therefore, regardless of what
you think, you have never wished to be rid of the capacity to make the
gift of the Father&rsquo;s Love that expresses limitless power. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; He Who is our home is homeless WITH us.
</div>

&hellip; if he could be, if these things could be.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Is this your will?
</div>

&ldquo;Well, I never really thought about it, hm-m-m. I&rsquo;ll have to
give that some thought.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Is this your will?
</div>

No, it can&rsquo;t be your will, because it expresses something
impossible and it elicits an effect that can&rsquo;t actually really
happen, even though you&rsquo;ve fooled yourselves into believing that
it has happened and is true, and is therefore justification for being
upset or disturbed, and is therefore justification for not choosing for
your peace because you don&rsquo;t want to be an insensitive human
being. You see? None of it makes sense.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Would you forever be a wanderer in search of peace?
</div>

No, not really. But you will seem to be until you make a choice, until
you&rsquo;re ready to make a stand with the Father after having
surrendered to the Father, so that you might know how to stand in your
peace in the face of great need without being moved by it into an
ineffectual frame of mind that&rsquo;s governed by fear and emotion and
is totally useless.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Would you invest your hope of peace and happiness in what MUST fail?
</div>

Well, no. Of course you wouldn&rsquo;t. But you didn&rsquo;t realize
that it would have to fail because it&rsquo;s an attempt to do something
impossible. Now you do, and that means that you&rsquo;re in a position
to make an intelligent choice and stand by it and be in the world in a
new way.

Hey, it may be hard work to work in the fields. But when you engage in
it willingly, bringing your attention to it with gratitude in your
heart, the laboriousness of it gives way to the pleasure of, for lack of
better words, &ldquo;being effective,&rdquo; being meaningful, being a
part of that which is Life. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Faith in the eternal is always justified&hellip;
</div>

&ldquo;Oh come on, what does the eternal have to do with the tragedy
that happened today? What about the deaths? What about the children that
were crushed under the walls?&rdquo; And so on and so forth. &ldquo;What
the hell does the eternal have to do with anything right now? I feel
justifiably upset and my heart aches for the parents. I know how I would
feel if it happened to me.&rdquo; Yes, you do. And to know how they feel
is important. But to be moved by it to the point where you lose your
balance and your ability to feel your peace so that you might have a
stable mind with which to respond effectively, that is stupid. That is
not what you would choose for and that is not what this is about.

It is about having the courage not to react but to find your intelligent
peace, so that you might act consciously, constructively and helpfully.
That takes determination. And that&rsquo;s what you&rsquo;re learning
about through the study of the Course, because it&rsquo;s not just
beautiful theory. It&rsquo;s about that which motivates change in you so
that you do become the extender of the Father&rsquo;s Love in
transformational &hellip; truly transformational ways.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Faith in the eternal &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; right in the face of the tragedy, is always justified. Why?
Because it will help you move out of and free of the influence of pure,
raw, uncontrolled emotion which intelligence is not governing, but which
overrules or overrides intelligence and the capacity to act truly
helpfully. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Faith in the eternal is always justified, for the eternal is forever
kind, infinite in its patience, and wholly loving.
</div>

Well, I know you can justify the presence of that which is loving and
patient with those who are suffering from tragedy. Well, how are you
going to extend it if you&rsquo;re caught up in the same reactions they
are? You&rsquo;re not. Don&rsquo;t miss your opportunity to express
your holiness by reflecting the Father in the middle of the tragedy.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; faith and the eternal &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; will accept you wholly, and give you peace. Yet &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and here is the key &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; it can unite only with what ALREADY is at peace in you,
immortal as itself.
</div>

Faith in the eternal &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; can unite only with what ALREADY is at peace in you&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; so you must take the time and put forth the effort it takes to
find your peace and abandon the reaction.

So that faith in the eternal &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; can unite only with what ALREADY is at peace in you&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; because what is already at peace in you is &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; immortal as itself. The body can bring you neither peace nor
turmoil; neither pain nor joy.
</div>

Those are all learned meanings, not actual things.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
 It is a means&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the body is &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and not an end. It has NO purpose of itself&hellip;
</div>

As I&rsquo;ve said before, it&rsquo;s simply the visibility and
tangibility of your Individuality. It has no goal or purpose other than
to identify your presence, which is the Presence of God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It
</div>

&hellip; the body &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
is a means, and not an end. It has NO purpose of itself, but only what
is given to it. The body will seem to be whatever is the means for
reaching the goal that you assign to it.

[Repeats] &hellip; goals that you assign to it.
</div>

The goals that get assigned to it will be different depending upon
whether you&rsquo;ve surrendered to God or whether you are asserting
your orphanhood.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Peace and guilt are both conditions of the mind, to be attained. And
these conditions are the home of the emotion which called them forth,
and therefore is compatible with them. But &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and this is the big &ldquo;but&rdquo; &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; think you which it is that is compatible with YOU.
</div>

Now I&rsquo;m going to end here this evening. Again:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; think you which it is that is compatible with YOU.
</div>

Who are you? The holy Son of God, or a mortal? How can you be a
behavior? Being mortal is a behavior, not a condition. You can only be
holy. That is a condition, not a behavior.

And so you must choose that which is compatible with you. And then you
must be willing to stand there. And you must practice standing there,
approaching your world from that stand point &hellip; what? . . as a
result of having surrendered to the Father in the holy instant and
learned of the Father what you need to do, so that you might be released
from bondage that is not yours and bondage which causes you to be
ineffective, useless and meaningless in the world as far as bringing
Light to all the world.

This is a pep talk tonight, not a scathing criticism. It is an
encouragement to you to find out how to labor in the field and find the
Meaning of it, so that fulfillment fills you because you haven&rsquo;t
contributed to the ongoingness of the suffering human condition, but are
actually bringing into play that which brings Light to all the world.

I love you very much and I look forward to being with you next time.

[^1]: T19.7 Pleasure and Pain

