---
title: Jun 9, 2013
ref: Discussion
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

Last week we talked about Family and Brotherhood and covering
one&rsquo;s back. And we did talk some about what I&rsquo;ll call,
&ldquo;economics.&rdquo; Except that I was not talking about the economy
of the world. It was more of divine economics and not everyone gleaned
from what I said, the fullness of what I meant.

Someone during the week expressed the thought that, &ldquo;Well, here
Paul is talking with Jesus and he has to beg for money every month. If
he can&rsquo;t demonstrate fulfillment of finances and he is talking
with Jesus, what chance do I have?&rdquo;

It seems like a reasonable question. However, I need everyone to
understand that the request for support isn&rsquo;t a means of
generating income. It&rsquo;s a way of functioning in harmony with the
means of coming Home &ndash; of Awakening.

Now, here I am &hellip; here I have been and I have been speaking with
you through Paul in this way for many years. What is my purpose? My
purpose is to invite you back Home &ndash; to remind you of Home and to
share with you the means of returning. And in all respects, in order to
return home there are some basic changes that need to occur. And all of
those changes are mental, all of those changes &hellip; um-m involve the
abandoning of false concepts &ndash; of beliefs that are false &ndash;
and replacing them with perceptions that are true.

Now the nature of Home &ndash; the nature of the Kingdom of Heaven
&ndash; is Love and peace and life and truth. Anyone coming Home from
their time off as a prodigal Son or Daughter must allow his or her mind
to begin to be in harmony with the nature of the destination. And so,
selfishness, greed, egotism, jealousy &hellip; all of these things that
all of you employ at one time or another in order to maintain your
balance, in order to control the situation so you&rsquo;re half way
safe, all of these things must yield to other things.

Jealousy must yield to Love. Limitation must yield to the embrace and
acceptance of abundance. Not because it&rsquo;s deserved or earned, but
because it&rsquo;s the Father&rsquo;s good pleasure to give you the
Kingdom. Not just everything you might need, but all that is.

Now, if I were to relate to you and share what I&rsquo;m sharing with
you, and if the sharing were charged for, if there were a price put on
it and you could not have it if you could not pay the price, then I
would not be teaching you how to have a new mindset that would put you
in harmony with the destination you&rsquo;re headed for.

The only way you can come Home is if you understand the meaning of Gift.
Because until you understand the meaning of Gift you will cling to
&ldquo;getting.&rdquo; You will cling to having getting this for that
&ndash; an exchange instead of a wholeness shared. And until this
&ldquo;growing up&rdquo; I&rsquo;m going to call it, occurs, until this
level of maturity kicks in, you will not be able to come Home. You will
still be operating as an independent agent among other independent
agents. And you will all barter with each other and fight with each
other over how to have the most that you think you need to have in order
to get to the place that&rsquo;s important.

I cannot teach you how to come Home without teaching you how to grow up
&ndash; how to shift into the attitude of giving.

Now there is a new paradigm of economics manifesting on your planet
among your economists and your forward thinking professors in the
Universities. It is showing up in the way musical artists are sharing
their work instead of going through the normal channels of contracts and
guarantees and manipulation of the market by raising or lowering the
prices on the musical products. And it&rsquo;s having an effect. In
actuality, it is causing some upheaval because those who are caught up
in the old paradigm who are still committed to it, cannot see how there
could be equity when control isn&rsquo;t being exercised. And yet,
that&rsquo;s the only way equity can be arrived at.

What does this mean? It means that those who are faced with the
imminence of change are going to have to stop griping about the new way
to experience equity, which they can&rsquo;t understand &hellip; and
explore it &hellip; be quiet with it so that they might begin to
understand how it works at the level of Love.

It indeed requires re-education, because in order for it to work, people
are going to have to begin to care about what they haven&rsquo;t
bothered to care about before. When a price is put on an item and you
know you must pay the price before you can have the item and
you&rsquo;re obedient to that structure, it never occurs to you to bring
love into it because love isn&rsquo;t required.

But in order for everyone to come back Home, to &ldquo;get back into the
Kingdom of Heaven,&rdquo; the shift from getting to giving has to occur.
And along with it has to come the grasping of how that works and what
the meaning of things is in that paradigm.

And so, one has to look and somehow recognize &ndash; if I&rsquo;m not
here to share it with you &ndash; somehow recognize that the element
that has to be brought into play is Love.

Umm &hellip; what does that mean? It means involvement. It means coming
back into the true understanding of Family and of Brotherhood, where the
motive for your behavior with each other is not self-defense, but the
sharing of optimal infinite wholeness. Why? Not so that you can get.
But because it&rsquo;s your nature to do that and as the Presence of
Love, it&rsquo;s natural for you to do that. And when you naturally do
it because you&rsquo;ve adopted that as normalcy, the manifestation of
Wholeness appears. And it appears in a context of intimacy, of Family,
of Brotherhood.

Now, let&rsquo;s say that a band of &ldquo;students of truth&rdquo; are
proceeding forward in a group on the road to the Kingdom of Heaven, and
they come to the Pearly Gates, we&rsquo;ll say. In order for them to go
through the Pearly Gates they have to have been approaching on the road
to the Kingdom of Heaven with a certain attitude, with this maturity
that I&rsquo;m talking about, where nobody is jockeying for a better
position so that they can be the first to go through the Gate and where
there is no back-biting or competition with each other, where Gift,
where caring, where involvement have replaced the aloofness of human
economics, and the unlovely characteristics of the nuclear family that
have developed as the thought of independence has taken hold and become
all-important.

This group must have abandoned independence. In abandoning it, what do
they find has happened? Well, they find that it&rsquo;s a lot easier to
have fun. It&rsquo;s a lot easier to be happy. It&rsquo;s a lot easier
for the creativity of the infinite Mind of God that is their Mind to
express Itself because they&rsquo;re not having to protect the
incredible ideas that are coming to them, and where everyone is able to
stand in full appreciation of the incredibly creative ideas that are
shared. You see?

I am teaching how to be in a new way &hellip; for what purpose? For the
purpose of your coming Home, for the purpose of your coming into
alignment with the divine way things work.

Now, if I am the Christ and I am present in the world in this fashion,
then what I am teaching must be consistent with what will actually allow
you to come all the way Home. And so, Paul and Susan and Chris and Judy
join with me in behaving in the way that illustrates how things divinely
work.

And so we have always shared the things I&rsquo;m saying and made them
available at no charge. And loving responses of appreciation in the form
of money have found their way through the mail into Paul&rsquo;s hands
so that they might be put to use to continue to make these things
available freely.

There is a teaching in this. There is something to be learned from this.
It&rsquo;s on purpose and it&rsquo;s not just some novel way to create
income for Paul who is doing some kind of work just like everyone else
is doing some kind of work and ends up being paid for it. You see?

This isn&rsquo;t about generating income. This is about behaving in a
way that teaches how to come Home, and teaches what is of value in terms
of coming Home through new behavior, which Paul, Susan and Chris and
Judy are exhibiting, embodying, practicing. You see?

Now, this is important to understand, because it lays the groundwork for
you to what? Have a new way of generating income like Paul does? No. It
puts you in a position of caring to cover your Brother&rsquo;s back, of
caring to do it because you care about your Brother. You see?

When you&rsquo;re in business, you don&rsquo;t have to care about your
brother when it comes to the transaction of it. But you&rsquo;re not
going to be able to get away from the necessity of caring for your
Brother, of being involved in that intimacy without self-protection.
Because, you see, self-protection puts a shield up between you and your
Brother that causes you not to be able to be aware of your
Brother&rsquo;s need or of what would truly answer his need so that you
could respond with that, that does answer it.

You must be defenseless with your Brother in order to be able to let his
need register with you so that you might respond with what answers his
need, rather than responding with whatever truth you think everyone
ought to hear, which doesn&rsquo;t involve communication or intimacy at
all. You see?

So, Family &hellip; Brotherhood &hellip; Gift &hellip; caring &hellip;
undefended involvement, learning to express appreciation for value
received &ndash; for love extended to you and received by you. Learning
to keep involvement alive. Relearning to keep it alive. Remembering to
keep it alive. This requires practice. Obviously it requires practice,
else we wouldn&rsquo;t have to, rather frequently, invite the awareness
that support is needed with an attempt to awaken the caring that causes
Love to find expression from you. You see?

And so, the request isn&rsquo;t there to generate income. The request is
there to trigger or inspire remembrance of what means something and what
is natural to you as a holy Son or Daughter of God, so that you might
bring it back into play after its significant absence, while you
pretended to be orphans working each other over, protecting yourselves
against each other. You see?

That&rsquo;s what this is about &hellip; that&rsquo;s what this is
about. You see?

Now, I&rsquo;m going to leave it at that tonight, because it brings into
crystal clarity and simple focus something very fundamentally important.
And it is fundamentally important because when it is embraced and
learned and your behavior and your attitudes are changed, it opens up
the gates of Heaven. It will cause the way in which mankind on your
globe behaves towards each other. And it will support, nourish and
magnify the integrity of every one of you. That is significant!

And even if you didn&rsquo;t think that that would pave the way for you
to regain entrance into the Kingdom of Heaven, it&rsquo;s something
worthy of, for lack of better words, achieving, going for, because
everyone deserves to be feeling the integrity of their Being, which is
being illuminated and supported by all of their Brothers and Sisters.
You see?

You see the harmony and the excellence of the Brotherhood of Man when
you look at it this way. It&rsquo;s worth looking at with new eyes, even
when you can&rsquo;t grasp what it will mean or how it will work. In
fact, everything in you says, &ldquo;it can&rsquo;t work.&rdquo;
Everything in you says, &ldquo;that chaos will be the result!&rdquo; But
it will not be.

Everyone can afford to dare to risk the chance that there is a God and
embody what God Is, by reaching for that which is not understandable
yet, reaching for a practical grasp of how giving instead of getting can
bless everyone instead of driving them into chaos and poverty &hellip;
because until you take the time to dare to look at what you don&rsquo;t
understand, but which is obviously worthwhile, such as the ever-present
expression of Love towards your Brothers and Sisters, you will put
yourself in alignment with the experience of Revelation and insight that
will allow you to behave in a new way, that inspires others to embrace
it as well.

That is the Meaning of the way this work, works that Paul and Susan and
Chris and Judy and I are engaged in.

And that&rsquo;s the Meaning behind this unique function of Gifting
instead of the typical one of engaging in commerce. Be willing to be
with this within yourselves, because it&rsquo;s inseparable from Waking
up. It&rsquo;s inseparable from the illumination of your salvation.

I love you very much. And I look forward to being with you next time.


