---
title: Jul 7, 2013
ref: T13.8 The Way of Salvation
alink: "/acim/text/13/chap1308/"
---

The original subject as it was dictated to Helen was &ldquo;The Way of
Salvation.&rdquo; And when the books were edited, it was changed
to&ldquo;Your Function in the Atonement.&rdquo; The new Heading is
appropriate.  The fact is that your function in the Atonement is the 
way of salvation. 

A key point&mdash;a very important point.

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

Well, several people found what I had to say last week to be difficult
or problematic. I was, perhaps, never clearer in expressing the problem
of the human condition and its answer. And to some degree, what I shared
seemed to convict everyone to one degree or another.

Someone responded and said, &ldquo;It was tough medicine, but I needed
it.&rdquo; Another commented that it knocked the wind out of their
sails, because they thought they had been being a genuinely kind and
loving person. But after hearing what I had to say and paying attention
to their behavior, they discovered how, shall I say, shallow was their
kindness &hellip; in other words, how easy it was for their &ldquo;genuine
kindness&rdquo; to shift to anger or judgment if the kindness expressed
was not received or was ridiculed or not cooperated with.

So it has put many in a position of having to reevaluate themselves and
to the use to which they&rsquo;re putting their mind. And it isn&rsquo;t
necessarily easy, especially when one&rsquo;s behavior has been revealed
to him by his very own observance to be self-righteous &hellip; to be
self-serving &hellip; to be manipulative. That&rsquo;s not an easy thing
to swallow.

And yet, as I said last week, when one is disturbed by clarity, this is
a forward step. Because clarity allows new decisions to be made that can
effect actual change. And this is important.

Now there are many reasons that what I shared last week might be
interpreted as being an impossible task. After all, the bottom line is
that you are here to cover your Brothers&rsquo; back. You are here to be
involved with your Brother or your Sister in a way that supports the
illumination and disclosure of their divinity, the uncovering of that
which results in healing. And that activity genuinely engaged in will
interfere with whatever your goals are &ndash; whatever plans you have
for yourself.

That&rsquo;s when you find out that you&rsquo;re not as kind as you
think you are and that your kindness is not as genuine that you thought
it was.

And yet the call is for that kindness to become genuine so that your
willingness to cover your Brothers&rsquo; back is engaged in with
commitment &ndash; with real caring. Not an act of caring, but real
caring, real involvement.

Now, in some ways, as you&rsquo;re willing to test this way of Being
out, you will find that it will seem to call for you to abandon
yourself. After all, if covering your Brothers&rsquo; back, if engaging
in the genuine practice of love towards your Brothers and Sisters, if
that is what is going to govern you, then you will seem to be at the
mercy of, for lack of better words, your Brothers&rsquo; needs.

&ldquo;Oh my goodness, I can&rsquo;t do that, I have my own needs to
take care of. In fact if I don&rsquo;t take care of my own needs, I
won&rsquo;t be able to convince my Brothers and Sisters that I&rsquo;m
worthy of their attention and worthy of their support. And therefore, I
can&rsquo;t afford to abandon myself.&rdquo; You see?

It seems to be an impossible task, if you have to put yourself, not just
in second place, but in last place. And yet, the way Home involves
looking into your Brothers&rsquo; eyes and remembering God.

Again, an impossibility! An impracticality! Something that it is
unreasonable for you to be asked to do. And yet, it&rsquo;s not. It is
the simple answer. It is the practice of the holy instant. It is the
practice of the two-step where you shut up! And what that means is, you
shut up your thinking &hellip; you shut up your agendas &hellip; you
shut up your self-righteous urgency to take care of yourself as number
one, and get everyone else to help take care of you while you imply to
them that you&rsquo;re taking care of them.

Now you, in order to come Home, must arrive at a point where
you&rsquo;re willing to reach out to the Father. You must be willing to
arrive at a point where you will reach out to the Father and ask for
help! &ldquo;Father, what is the truth here? Aside from my best
judgments, aside from my best agendas, aside from what I want, what is
truth here? What is the truth that heals? What is the truth that
transforms? What is the truth that Wakes us all up?&rdquo;

Again, a seeming impossibility. You say, &ldquo;Well, I&rsquo;m not in
touch with my Guide like Paul is, or so-in-so is. I don&rsquo;t have
that skill, or if I do, I haven&rsquo;t uncovered it in myself yet. And
actually, I haven&rsquo;t done it with total commitment yet, I
haven&rsquo;t reached out genuinely yet. I&rsquo;ve reached out with
curiosity as though it&rsquo;s something interesting and perhaps
valuable. But you know, I haven&rsquo;t done it as though I needed to do
it.&rdquo; And that&rsquo;s the problem.

Nevertheless, it seems to be another reason to say that what I shared
last week is impossible and is unreasonable. And that&rsquo;s why we are
moving back about one hundred pages in the Text to a place that
we&rsquo;ve already read and shared together, which now is going to have
far much more meaning than it did before and which will clearly express
to you the factuality &mdash; the truth of what I shared last week. And
it will state it so clearly, that even though it still seems impossible
to you, you will understand that what seems to be impossible to you,
must not be impossible, because here is an answer to the impossibility
stated so succinctly that you can&rsquo;t deny, for lack of better
words, its pure logic.

This section that we will be reading tonight, I ask you to write the
page numbers on a post-it note and put it somewhere where you can always
see it. So that when doing the two-step, when practicing the holy
instant seems to you to be impossible or certainly not a reasonable
thing to do constantly and consistently, you can come back here and see
it stated very perfectly, clearly. So that it might inspire you to put a
little more faith in the impossible &ndash; to put a little more faith
in its possibility.

You know what? A shift is occurring. A shift of Awakening is occurring.
And those who are beginning to be aware of it think it&rsquo;s
impossible. But those who join in actually pushing the envelope, if I
may put it that way, by engaging in the holy instant over and over and
over and over again, daily, hourly, all who engage in the pushing of the
envelope help break the envelope, help break the bubble that seems to be
holding you in the human condition.

And so it&rsquo;s important.

So, let&rsquo;s go into the book now:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Way of Salvation or Your Function in the Atonement[^1]

When you accept a brother&rsquo;s guiltlessness&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that means, when you&rsquo;re willing to cover your
Brother&rsquo;s back by standing close and with him&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you accept a brother&rsquo;s guiltlessness, you will see the
Atonement in him.
</div>

Mind you, this is a statement of fact. Everything that I will be reading
here, is a statement of fact which you can rely upon and which you
should read with the comprehension that it&rsquo;s worth being open to
its Real Meaning. Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you accept a brother&rsquo;s guiltlessness&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; when you&rsquo;re willing to give him the benefit of the doubt,
when you&rsquo;re willing to stand in support of him even though he may
have screwed you royally in the past, when you&rsquo;re willing to stand
with him to see his divinity&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you will see the Atonement in him. For by proclaiming it in him
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning, for by your proclaiming it in him &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you make it YOURS&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and you WILL see what you sought.
</div>

Another way of putting that is, you get to keep what you give.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You will not see the symbol of your brother&rsquo;s guiltlessness
shining within him while you still believe it is not there.
</div>

Simple, straight-forward, factual.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
HIS guiltlessness is YOUR Atonement.
</div>

What does that mean? That means that your insistence upon looking at him
to see his guiltlessness by saying, &ldquo;Father what is the truth
here?&rdquo; your doing that makes it yours. Because it reveals your
Brother&rsquo;s guiltlessness to you and when you see it about your
Brother you immediately recognize that it&rsquo;s the truth about
yourself as well.

But you won&rsquo;t see it about yourself until you extend it to your
Brother first. Another seemingly impossible thing and yet that&rsquo;s
the only way it works and therefore, it is possible!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
HIS guiltlessness is YOUR Atonement. Grant it to him&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; grant his guiltlessness to him &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and you will see the truth of what you have acknowledged. Yet
truth is offered FIRST to be received&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; to make that even clearer we could say, Yet truth is offered
first in order to be received &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; even as God gave it first to His Son.
</div>

&hellip; you and your Brothers and Sisters.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The first in time means nothing, but the First in eternity is God the
Father, Who is both First and One.
</div>

Meaning, indivisible.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Beyond the First there is no other, for there is no order, no second or
third, and nothing BUT the First.
</div>

This is important. This is why Reality is unconflicted. This is why
harmony is the eternal fact. This is why eternity is eternity. There is
nothing to break it up. There is nothing to break it down.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You who belong to the First Cause&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; God &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; created by Him like unto Himself and part of Him&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; because there&rsquo;s nothing outside the One that God is
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; are more than merely guiltless.
</div>

You at this instant, as you are listening, are guiltless. That is the
eternal unchangeable fact about you, one which you do not believe. And
one which you do not experience, because you are maintaining a duality.
God is both First and One. Singular, indivisible.

Therefore, your attempt to be an independent agent is an attempt to
create a second, in addition to God, which is impossible. And the
impossibility of it is experienced as sin, sickness and death &ndash;
the human condition. It&rsquo;s not true. It&rsquo;s not actual. But as
long as this attempt to be separate and independent and a second to God,
that is the problem that needs to be solved.

It means that anything you engage in independently, any thought you have
that is not guided by the Holy Spirit or the Father, is the creative
movement of the illusion &ndash; of mortality, period.

It is never valuable. And to abandon it does not constitute the
abandoning of yourself. Even though you identify so closely with your
thinking, you believe that when you&rsquo;re not thinking, you will
cease to exist. Which is another thing that makes what I&rsquo;m
teaching seem to be impossible.

Again:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You who belong to the First Cause, created by Him like unto Himself and
part of Him, are more than merely guiltless. The state of guiltlessness
is only the condition in which what is not there has been removed from
the disordered mind that thought it WAS.
</div>

Your guilt never was present. You imagine it is. But it is not present.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The state of guiltlessness &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; which is your true state &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is only the condition in which what is not there &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning guilt &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; has been removed from the disordered mind that thought it WAS.
This state, and only this, must YOU attain with God beside you.
</div>

In other words, it is something you need to consciously engage in the
release of by joining with the Father consciously, by having the
conscious intent not to be separate, independent and isolated.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This state, and only this, must YOU attain &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you have to initiate &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; must YOU attain with God beside you. For until you do, you will
still think that you are separate from Him. You can feel His Presence
next to you, but CANNOT know that you are one with Him.
</div>

This is a little tricky &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This need not be taught. Learning applies only to the condition in which
it happens OF ITSELF.
</div>

You see? You think you teach yourself things. But it&rsquo;s in the
absence of your teaching yourself things, it&rsquo;s in the silence of
the infinite Mind that you are, that the infinite Mind that God is as
your Mind, can register [snaps fingers] with you. And then you learn
because truth is revealed and perceived by you but not at your own hand.

And as I&rsquo;ve said before, this is what is insulting. And to those
who are sorely identified with their thinking, it means that
you&rsquo;ve got to give up your existence. That&rsquo;s what it seems
like to you, which you perceive to be an impossible thing to willingly
do because it feels like committing suicide.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you have let all that obscured the truth in your most holy mind be
undone for you and stand in grace before your Father, He will give
Himself to you as He has always done.
</div>

There it is. You cannot teach yourself. But in the absence of your busy
thinking &ndash; of your indulgence in self-righteousness &ndash; in the
absence of that, the Father takes the last step. The Father reveals
Himself to you. He will give Himself to you as He has always done. What
does that mean, He has always done? Yes, because Being is a Movement of
God into manifestation.

Creation is the Movement of God into manifestation. God is always giving
Himself to you as your Self, as your Identity. God is giving Himself to
you as your Identity. And you see, as long as you&rsquo;re attempting to
maintain a puny little private sense of self, you are refusing the Gift
of God, of Himself to you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Giving Himself is all He knows, and so it is all knowledge. For what He
knows not cannot be, and therefore cannot be given.
</div>

Do you see? This is slowly and clearly undermining any justification you
might have for valuing and validating yourself as a private entity with
a mind of your own, who has been given a gift of free will by God, you
say, to act independent of God, to ignore God if you so choose. And
that&rsquo;s all fantasy. And it simply needs to be abandoned.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Ask not to be forgiven, for this has already been accomplished.
</div>

You can&rsquo;t be forgiven for what you haven&rsquo;t done. And you
have not managed to be an orphan. You have not managed to be an
independent agent acting in opposition to the Father. It can&rsquo;t be
done! And so you haven&rsquo;t done it. Therefore you are not guilty of
it and you can thereby abandon the feelings of guilt that keep you from
reaching out to the Father and embracing Him and His Gift to you of
Himself as all there is to you.

You see? It&rsquo;s utter simplicity. But it requires the complete
abandonment of self-will, which finds expression through
self-righteousness.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Ask not to be forgiven, for this has already been accomplished. Ask,
rather, to learn how to FORGIVE, and restore what always was to your
unforgiving mind.
</div>

What unforgiving mind? Well, the mind that gets pissed off when somebody
else doesn&rsquo;t pay attention to the kindness and the goodness
that&rsquo;s extended to them. And they don&rsquo;t appreciate it and
they take up your time giving you the opportunity to be kind and then
waste your time by not taking it and using it and benefitting from it.
You see?

The anger that comes up is a manifestation of an unforgiving mind. And
that means that the gift of kindness that you thought you were giving
was an act of kindness &ndash; an act, not a genuine kindness.
It&rsquo;s the evidence of an unforgiving mind, resting just below the
surface, ready to pounce if the good you are doing isn&rsquo;t
well-received.

That is self-righteousness. And self-righteousness, as I said last week,
is the number one killer. It is that which keeps you separate from the
Source of your Life which is your Father, Who, by making the Gift of
Himself to you as you is the non-existence of an independent agent, and
is the presence of You in your right Mind enjoying and perceiving
Creation as it truly Is, so full of joy and love that there cannot be
any occasion for mean-spirited, small minded self-interest,
self-righteousness, self-importance.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Atonement becomes real and visible to them that USE it.
</div>

Atonement becomes real and visible to them that USE it. It remains
invisible to those who do not use it &hellip; to those who refuse to
engage in the holy instant or the two-step and defer to something beyond
their puny little self-righteous independent agent attitude.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Atonement becomes real and visible to them that USE it. On earth
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; listen to this &hellip; where you are.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
On earth this is your only function, and you must learn that it is all
you WANT to learn.
</div>

Do you see how clearly this is put and how it states that what seems to
be an impossibility has to be a possibility else you would not be
directed to engage in it? It is your unbelief that gets in the way of
your hearing the truth of this. But it is so clearly said here that it
will be easier for you to be willing to push the envelope and to press
for functioning outside of whatever the current limits are that are
binding you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You WILL, you WILL feel guilty till you learn this.
</div>

Period. Simple. Straight forward. The truth, as long as you are trying
to deny Reality, Reality will be problematic for you, because it will
continue to be omnipresent and omnipotent and it will not honor the
limits you try to impose on it. And so it will always press itself
against the limits you are trying to reinforce and you will call that
opposition and you will try to get rid of it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You WILL feel guilty till you learn this. For, in the end, whatever form
it takes, your guilt arises from your failure to fulfill your function
in God&rsquo;s Mind with all of YOURS.
</div>

Hear it again:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For, in the end, whatever form it takes, your guilt arises from your
failure to fulfill your function in God&rsquo;s Mind with all of YOURS.
</div>

&hellip; with all of your mind.

What is that function? To cover your Brother&rsquo;s back, to abandon
your independence, to become vulnerable enough to let your Brother in
and to feel into your Brother and care enough, so that the hurt that you
find there is something you want to help get rid of so that you, with
commitment, ask further of the Father or the Holy Spirit, &ldquo;What is
the truth here that will heal? Because I want to be fulfilling my
function here.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Can you escape this guilt by failing to fulfill your function here?
</div>

Of course not, you&rsquo;re just going to keep the guilt in place
&ndash; reaffirm it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You need not understand creation to do what must be done before that
knowledge would be meaningful to you.
</div>

So, don&rsquo;t try to understand this before you do it. You don&rsquo;t
need to. And you&rsquo;re prejudice, because of the state of
self-righteousness that you&rsquo;re in, will tend to keep you from even
being able to understand Creation. And so you must do the only thing
you&rsquo;ve been asked to do: be willing to look into your
Brother&rsquo;s eyes and remember God. Look at your Brother with the
intent to find God there. That&rsquo;s what you&rsquo;re asked to do
&hellip; and that you can do if you&rsquo;re willing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God breaks no barriers; neither did He MAKE them. When YOU release them
they are gone.
</div>

When you release the arguments you have and all the confidences you have
put in place that hold you securely, and hold your Brother securely in
the orphan state of mind, when you release those, when you stop
reinforcing them by persisting in looking into your Brother&rsquo;s eyes
and wishing to see God and thereby covering his back, when you do that,
when you release them, they are gone, because they never were actual,
they never were actually there.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God will not fail, nor ever has in anything.
</div>

Now we&rsquo;re going to get even more specific. This is what
we&rsquo;ve been talking about for the last few weeks and especially
last week.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Decide that God is right and YOU are wrong about yourself.
</div>

In other words, decide that your choice to be a self-righteous,
arrogant, manipulator is a misunderstanding of yourself &ndash; of who
you are &ndash; that you are employing. And so, deciding that God is
right and YOU are wrong about yourself is essential to escaping from the
bondage that you have created.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He created you out of Himself, but still within Him.
</div>

Remember there is no second to God, or third or fourth. There&rsquo;s no
outside of God. So everything that exists, exists within the Wholeness
the Oneness that God Is, and thereby embodies or manifests that
singularity, that indivisible non-conflicted Presence.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He KNOWS what you are.
</div>

And I&rsquo;m going to backup two sentences once more:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Decide that God is right and YOU are wrong about yourself.
</div>

That&rsquo;s not very satisfying to the ego. It&rsquo;s insulting to the
ego. And if you are wrong about yourself then everything that you have
misunderstood or understood incorrectly about yourself, which you use to
identify who you are to yourself, will have to go, will have to be
released. And again, that seems like extermination &ndash; the end of
you. And again, I say, it is not! And it is an essential step in the
Atonement.

Continuing:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Remember that there is no second to Him. There cannot, therefore, be
anyone without His &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; God&rsquo;s &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; Holiness, nor anyone unworthy of His perfect Love.
</div>

And that means you at this very instant &hellip; now &hellip; now
&hellip; now &hellip; now, tomorrow, the next day, every single moment.

Now here&rsquo;s your task:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Fail not in your function of loving in a loveless place made out of
darkness and deceit, for thus are darkness and deceit undone.
</div>

Let&rsquo;s make this a little bit more understandable.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Fail not in your function of loving in a loveless place made out of
darkness and deceit&hellip;
</div>

Well what is this loveless place made out of darkness and deceit? Well
of course, it&rsquo;s the self-righteousness you engage in. It&rsquo;s
that mean-spirited, ugliness, this arbitrary offensiveness just beneath
the surface that comes into play when you are affronted by a lack of
respect for the good that you are doing.

So when it says:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Fail not in your function of loving in a loveless place made out of
darkness and deceit&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; it means, fail not to catch yourself in the act of
self-righteous judgment and call yourself on it. Call yourself on it.
Tell yourself to &ldquo;stop,&rdquo; and then stop using your mind that
way. Do not energize the darkness and the deceit of self-righteousness.
And right then and there, shift your attention to look at your Brother,
even if you can&rsquo;t look directly in his eyes, look at him or look
at her with the intent to see God there and acknowledge God there,
because if he or she exists at all, it is because God is making the Gift
of Himself right there as your Brother or Sister.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Fail not in your function of loving in a loveless place made out of
darkness and deceit, for thus are darkness and deceit undone.
</div>

Again, for simplicity: When you find yourself employing self-righteous
judgment and you catch yourself, and you abruptly bring it to a halt and
you replace it with the desire to see God in your Brother by asking God,
&ldquo;What is the truth here about your Brother?&rdquo; then the
darkness and deceit are undone. The self-righteousness in you is undone
and it is no longer the number one killer in your life. Get it?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Fail not YOURSELF, but instead, offer to God AND YOU His blameless Son.
</div>

Meaning you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For this small gift of appreciation for His Love&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; for God&rsquo;s Love &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God will Himself exchange your gift for His.
</div>

You see? When you make that gift of wishing to see God in whatever
you&rsquo;re looking at, that is the gift you are giving to God. And God
will receive it and exchange His Gift with yours. His Gift is: Being All
there Is of You. Gifting You with all that He Is and nothing else.

See now, here&rsquo;s a little bit more of the seeming impossibility
that this makes clear is possible, else it wouldn&rsquo;t give you such
a clear direction.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Before you make ANY decisions for yourself, remember that you have
decided AGAINST your function in Heaven, and consider carefully whether
you WANT to make decisions here.
</div>

Um… the only way that makes sense is if you understand that you, in an
independent position, making decisions, is this false independent sense
of self that got a divorce from the Father and therefore can&rsquo;t
actually accomplish anything whatsoever, that you have to be willing to
invalidate and not attempt to use. But as long as you are attempting it,
then you have decided against your function in Heaven.

What&rsquo;s your function in Heaven? Your function in Heaven is to
refer to the Father, &ldquo;What is the truth here?&rdquo; and listen
and hear His answer and embrace it. That&rsquo;s your function in
Heaven.

So again, before you make any decisions for yourself through the use of
your puny little mind and your ability to use reason and logic and your
ability to intermingle your intent with all of the mutual agreements
that everyone has created in order to have societies that function half
way well, when you are willing to invalidate that, and seemingly make
the you, you thought you were, extinct, you are at the threshold of the
Atonement.

Again, here:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Before you make ANY decisions for yourself, remember that you have
decided AGAINST your function in Heaven, and consider carefully whether
you WANT to make decisions here.
</div>

&hellip; on Earth with your puny private little mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your function here &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; listen:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your function here is only to decide AGAINST deciding what you want, in
recognition that you do not KNOW.
</div>

Meaning: in recognition that you in your so-called independent state of
mind do not Know the Truth. You do not know enough to make a decision
that would be in harmony with Creation, with your Source and therefore
with your Self. And therefore, that which divides you &ndash;
self-righteousness &ndash; is still the number one killer. And the
Atonement which is waiting your acceptance of It and your practice of
It, continues to seem to be unavailable to you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
How, then, can you decide what you should do?
</div>

Yeah, let&rsquo;s not answer that too quick.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
How, then, can you decide what you should do?
</div>

A flip answer would be, &ldquo;Well, I can&rsquo;t. Well, I can&rsquo;t.
What do you expect?&rdquo; Well, that&rsquo;s not the answer.
That&rsquo;s just more self-righteousness. That&rsquo;s more orphan
talk.

The question again:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
How, then, can you decide what you should do?
</div>

And here&rsquo;s the answer:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Leave all decisions to the One Who speaks for God, and for your function
as He KNOWS it.
</div>

&ldquo;Oh God, there&rsquo;s that impossible thing again. I&rsquo;ve got
to listen and I&rsquo;ve got to defer and I can&rsquo;t even hear my
Guide. Thanks a lot.&rdquo;

Oh boy, got a little more self-righteousness don&rsquo;t we. And it gets
in the way. It stands in the way of your humility. It stands in the way
of your saying, &ldquo;Well, if I can&rsquo;t hear from my Guide yet,
but everything is set up so that when I reach out to my Guide or to the
Father, an answer will be provided that will lift me out of the
orphanage, that will lift me out of the human condition, that will free
me from the self-righteousness, what will that look like? What is the
answer?&rdquo; And then you patiently and humbly continue to listen
because you feel the need. Until you feel the need you won&rsquo;t bring
the commitment, the genuineness to the process, which is necessary.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Leave all decisions to the One Who speaks for God, .
</div>

&hellip; Who&rsquo;s the one Who speaks for God? The Holy Spirit. What
is the Holy Spirit? That which is nothing more than your right Mind,
which you could never get away from, but which you could ignore by
making so much independent noise yourself that you drown out the Voice
for Truth &ndash; which is your right Mind. That&rsquo;s why the first
step of the two-step is to &ldquo;shut up.&rdquo; Simplicity.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Leave all decisions to the One Who speaks for God, and for your function
as He KNOWS it
</div>

The Holy Spirit &ndash; that which is nothing more than your right Mind
&ndash; knows your function because it is you in your right Mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
So will He teach you to remove the awful burden you have laid upon
yourself by loving not the Son of God, and trying to teach him guilt
instead of love.
</div>

Yes, that is what you have been doing. And you do it by means of the
self-righteousness that is just beneath the love and the consideration
and the kindness that you bring into play with the conscious intent to
manipulate for your benefit and then secondarily for the benefit of the
one you are coercing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
So will He &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that which is nothing more than your right Mind &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; teach you to remove the awful burden you have laid upon
yourself by loving not the Son of God, and trying to teach him guilt
instead of love. Give up this frantic and insane attempt&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; but of course, it seems most reasonable to you. It seems like
the way of life to you. And what you&rsquo;re being called upon to do
seems to be impossible, simply because it&rsquo;s been awhile since you
practiced it and thus it&rsquo;s naturalness and normalcy doesn&rsquo;t
feel natural and normal to you any more. And your need to survive is
overriding your willingness to become still and therefore vulnerable,
where God&rsquo;s Love can reach you and turn the human condition into
the divine actuality of you as the Son of God or the Daughter of God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Give up this frantic and insane attempt, which cheats you of the joy of
living with your God and Father, and awaking gladly to His Love and
Holiness which join together &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; as the truth in you, making you One with Him.
</div>

See, that&rsquo;s the part you can&rsquo;t do by yourself. You must
stand with, along side the Father as you reach out to Him and as you
make commitment to Him. But as you make commitment to Him, your gift of
commitment He receives and exchanges with His Gift. And His Gift to you
is the conscious experience of you as His only Son, as His only
Daughter, pure, perfect, invulnerable, which you will experience as one
of regeneration and redemption.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you have learned how to decide WITH God&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; not against God anymore, not independent of God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you have learned how to decide WITH God&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; which really means, when you learn to listen to God and hear
His Voice and decide with Him as to what He has said&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; all decisions become as easy and as right as breathing. There
is no effort, and you will be led as gently as if you were being carried
along a quiet path in summer. Only your own volition seems to make
deciding hard.
</div>

What does that mean&hellip; Only your own volition? Well, it simply
means, only your will to have it your way. Only your insistence upon
making up your own plans &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; make deciding hard.
</div>

The Father says, &ldquo;Here is the Truth.&rdquo; And you say,
&ldquo;Yes, but &hellip; yes, but &hellip; yes, but &hellip; yes, but
&hellip; yes, but &hellip;&rdquo; And all the time you&rsquo;re saying,
&ldquo;Yes, but,&rdquo; you&rsquo;re holding off on deciding with the
Father on what the Father is Being. And so you delay the experience of
Atonement and you continue the practice of self-righteousness and death
still awaits you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Only your own volition seems to make deciding hard.
</div>

Deciding for yourself is an exercise of your own volition.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that which is nothing more than your right Mind &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; will not delay at all in answering your EVERY question what to
do. He KNOWS. And He will TELL you and then &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; do it FOR you.
</div>

That&rsquo;s the last straw. When the Holy Spirit does it for you
&ndash; you poor little helpless bastard &ndash; that&rsquo;s really
insulting! I mean, the Holy Spirit doesn&rsquo;t tell you the truth so
that you as an independent authorizer can carry it out. No, because that
independent, self-righteous bastard that wants to do it himself is the
very thing that creates the whole illusion of sin, sickness and death.

So the ultimate of this is: That the Holy Spirit will tell you and then
do it for you. And you will let Him do it, because you want to be
through with sin, sickness and death.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You who are tired might consider whether this is not more restful than
sleep. For you can bring your guilt into sleeping, but not into this.
</div>

And that&rsquo;s the promise of it:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you can bring your guilt into sleeping, but not into this.
</div>

And that&rsquo;s your release. When you give up the last vestige of a
feeling of a right to engage in an independent activity, the Kingdom is
given to you &hellip; given to you because it&rsquo;s your Birthright
and not because you&rsquo;ve earned it.

And that is the nature of God&rsquo;s Love. That&rsquo;s the way
Atonement works. It is not impossible. And I invite you to refer to
this section that we&rsquo;ve just read, over and over, so as to remind
yourself that what seems to be impossible, must not actually be
impossible or you would not have such clear unequivocal explanation of
how to come Home.

I love you very much. And I look forward to being with you next time.

[^1]: T13.8 The Way of Salvation

