---
title: Jul 14, 2013
ref: T27.5 The Healing Example
alink: "/acim/text/27/chap2705/"
---

Okay. Tonight we will not be continuing in the Book. There are some
further things I want to share about the practice and the abandonment of
self-righteousness, because there is more peace that needs to come from
understanding it than most of you are experiencing.

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who is joining us on the internet.

I am aware that distress has been felt by many during this past week as
a result of willingness to look at the practice of self-righteousness,
when one thought one was being loving or being a good citizen, or being
a good neighbor.

I am aware that looking around, it is obvious that there are instances
of injustice or apparent injustice that have come into play that
certainly arouses self-righteousness. And at the same time, because the
problem of injustice needs to be corrected and the correction is going
to take time to change the laws, one feels on-goingly vulnerable and not
at peace &ndash; even beyond the discomfort of practicing voluntary
self-righteousness.

The situation will call for persistence for an intent to put forth the
effort necessary to bring about the corrections. In other words
it&rsquo;s going to take work. And at the bottom line,
self-righteousness tells you that you shouldn&rsquo;t even be confronted
with a need to attend to these things.

And so here you are feeling vulnerable for awhile until it&rsquo;s
corrected. And then you&rsquo;re feeling put upon by having to
participate by bringing about the changes that install justice into the
system and into the world. And so that&rsquo;s one of the disconcerting
and distressing aspects of self-righteousness that you&rsquo;re dealing
with.

There are other situations with families where injustice is being
asserted and is causing abuse to occur with such ferocity or such
conviction that it seems that the correction of that will be impossible.
But on top of this, because it&rsquo;s family, your emotions are brought
into play and you are distressed. And again, you are made to feel
powerless and you have reaction to that: &ldquo;It&rsquo;s unfair. I
shouldn&rsquo;t have to be faced with this. Everybody should know
better. If everybody would listen to me we wouldn&rsquo;t be having
these problems!&rdquo; And on and on and on go the self-righteous
judgments and conclusions.

Another aspect is that you&rsquo;ve looked at yourself and it is clearer
than ever the degree to which you attempt to control, in order to get
what you want, in order to get your partner or your Brother or those you
work with to serve your best interests to be thoughtful of you. And yet,
they seem to be beyond your control and therefore, in your
powerlessness, all you can do is gripe, be distressed and depress
yourself.

Also you look and you see what I&rsquo;m going to call
&ldquo;mortality&rdquo; presenting itself to loved ones. And they are
accepting the presentation hook, line and sinker and are not available
to hear any healing perspective that you might be able to provide. And
so again, you feel frustrated, angry, powerless. You feel abused
yourself. And at the bottom line, the solution to all of this is very
simple, but it&rsquo;s not one you want to hear.

Now, we need to take a brief look at how the human condition, how the
dream, how the illusion of existence started. And we discussed it
briefly last week. It started because you and another holy Son of God
decided to make a mutual agreement, an agreement as to the definition of
things &ndash; the definition of Reality that is different from the
Meaning the Father is Embodying in Creation, actually.

Now this mutual agreement agreed to by the two of you caused you to have
a special relationship &ndash; a relationship other than the one the
Father established by expressing Himself as you and your Brother or
Sister &ndash; with whom you have formed this mutual agreement that is
at odds with Creation itself.

Now here we are squarely looking at the practice of self-righteousness,
squarely looking at the fact that, as I said a couple weeks ago,
self-righteousness is the number one killer.

Now as you&rsquo;ve gone through the last couple weeks and you&rsquo;ve
taken perhaps a more honest look at your practice of self-righteousness
or the falsity of your &ldquo;loving kindness&rdquo; that you have been
sharing with people, you have become confused by thinking that the
correction of the difficulty of the distress will come from other people
changing &ndash; other people changing by virtue of your exercising
spiritual control, by virtue of your willing to ask of the Holy Spirit
to see your Brother&rsquo;s or your Sister&rsquo;s innocence so that you
might cover your Brother&rsquo;s or your Sister&rsquo;s back.

This is tricky, because that understanding will get you into trouble.
It will confuse things.

You &ndash; and here&rsquo;s the bottom line simplicity of it &ndash;
you need to stop practicing self-righteousness because it will kill you.
I do not say that threateningly or to cause you to be frightened, but to
make it utterly clear that the practice of self-righteousness has an
effect only on you, who practice it.

Sin, disease and death are the effect of the practice of
self-righteousness and the effect is on you, who is practicing it.
Self-righteousness, practiced by your Brother or Sister affects them in
their practice of it, not you. And so, to think that you, through the
practice of the two-step, will engage in an activity that will cause
your Brother to start treating you better is a misunderstanding.

Again: The human condition &ndash; the dream of existence &ndash; was
the result of a mutual agreement engaged in by two Sons or Daughters of
God. And Waking up is the undoing of those mutual agreements. It is the
undoing of the mutuality of a special relationship in which special
definitions, imaginative definitions, have been arrived at and agreed to
and committed to. You see?

It&rsquo;s the undoing of the relationship, which means &ndash; and this
is the part that no one really wants to hear &ndash; it means that you
and you alone have the means of abandoning the practice of
self-righteousness and, in the abandonment of it, having your mind be
healed. You see?

In a way it is totally private. It is something you must do in the
withinness of your Being, without regard to your Brothers or Sisters, so
that peace replaces the frustration and the self-righteous anger of
self-righteousness, causing your mind to become clear, unconfused, at
peace within itself, so that it is able to let the Father&rsquo;s
Perspective register with it &ndash; register with you &ndash; and in
that Revelation be healed yourself, so that your perspective of your
Brother is changed &hellip;

&hellip; not changed because you&rsquo;re trying to change your
Brother&rsquo;s perspective, but because you&rsquo;ve attended to the
only thing you can attend to, which is whether you&rsquo;re going to
continue to practice self-righteousness, or whether you are going to
abandon it by abandoning the special relationship and letting your
Brother off the hook, and letting yourself off the hook by no longer
saying, &ldquo;My Brother will be the death of me yet.&rdquo; &ldquo;My
daughter or my son will be the death of me yet.&rdquo; By saying 
&ldquo;Someone else in some magical way can ruin me, ruin my life.&rdquo;

You cannot die from someone else&rsquo;s self-righteousness. You hear
that? You cannot die from someone else&rsquo;s self-righteousness! You
can access eternal life by abandoning your practice of
self-righteousness. And in your acceptance and receipt of eternal life,
you will find yourself being transformational &hellip; but not because
you&rsquo;re trying to. You will be transformational because you will no
longer be participating with your Brothers and Sisters in mutual
agreements that all of you believe are law and have committed yourselves
to. You see?

The whole reason for looking at what self-righteousness is, and the need
to abandon it, and your act of abandoning it, is because that brings
forth the conscious experience of God&rsquo;s Perspective in you and
returns you to your right Mind, which right now is called the Holy
Spirit because you&rsquo;ve divorced yourself from It. And that is the
process of the Movement of Awakening.

You will do this because you want to Wake up not because you want to
manipulate or control your Brothers and Sisters even for their best
interest.

Things will remain messy and complicated if you don&rsquo;t abandon the
special relationship and all the habitual techniques that you have
engaged in in these special relationships.

You must be willing to turn to the Father, which is what the holy
instant is for, to say, &ldquo;Father, what is the truth here? Father I
&hellip; because I don&rsquo;t want to suffer the dire effects of
practicing self-righteousness, want to know the truth. I want You to
share with me Your Perspective. I no longer want to be confused and I no
longer want to suffer from confusion.&rdquo;

Now last week we went back in the Book about one hundred pages. And
tonight I&rsquo;m going to refer you to something about two hundred
pages ahead. It&rsquo;s in Chapter Twenty-Seven and it&rsquo;s a sub
heading called, The Healing Example. And I&rsquo;m going to share it
because it helps to clarify the fact that what is called for is
abandoning the special relationship, abandoning your expectations of
others, abandoning the idea that others through their neglect, can cause
you to suffer and have an unfulfilled life, or through their devoted
attention they can make you blissfully happy, when at no point, have you
bothered yet to abandon your self-righteousness and join with the Father
and have His Perspective infill you and transform you. You see?

And so, it says here:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*The Healing Example* [^1]

The only way to heal is to be healed.
</div>

So if you think you want to heal your Brother, you&rsquo;re going to
have to be healed yourself.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The only way to heal is to be healed.
</div>

The only way to get out from under the effects of self-righteousness is
to be healed of the practice of self-righteousness yourself, regardless
of what your Brother or Sister is doing.

But listen to this:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The miracle &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in the healing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The miracle extends without your help, but you ARE needed that it can
begin.
</div>

You see? This isn&rsquo;t just laborious. This isn&rsquo;t just you
looking at hard things to look at and dealing with hard things to deal
with as though Waking up is a struggle. But the looking at it that
we&rsquo;re talking about isn&rsquo;t easy and you need not to be afraid
to do the work. It&rsquo;s essential!

Because after all, self-righteousness is the number one killer! I keep
saying that because death seems to be such a reasonable justification
for changing one&rsquo;s life because it&rsquo;s rather ultimate.

Now, you want to abandon self-righteousness because in its absence, the
holy Son or Daughter of God that you Are is revealed to you as your
Whole Mindedness. That is incredible! That is worth every bit of effort
you might find you need to put forth. So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The only way to heal is to be healed.
</div>

To participate in that transformation. And &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The miracle extends without your help, but you ARE needed that it can
begin. Accept the miracle of healing, and it will go forth because of
what it IS.
</div>

You see? The good news &ndash; God&rsquo;s Love, Healing, radiates
infinitely. It goes out infinitely because that&rsquo;s It&rsquo;s
nature.

And so when you abandon trying to manipulate or change your mate or your
family or your society and you give your undivided attention to
monitoring the use you put your mind to and refraining completely from
engaging in self-righteousness, you open the door for something
marvelous!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The miracle extends without your help, but you ARE needed that it can
begin. Accept the miracle of healing, and it will go forth because of
what it IS. It is its nature to extend itself the instant it is born.
And it is born the instant it is offered and RECEIVED.
</div>

It&rsquo;s borne the minute you let it in, the moment you let yourself
be changed by it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
No-one can ask another to be healed.
</div>

You see? &ldquo;Oh, if you would just treat me nicer, I would be happy
&ndash; that would be healing to me. If you just wouldn&rsquo;t be
engaged in so much self-interest that you abandon me, I would be much
happier.&rdquo;

That&rsquo;s asking somebody else to heal you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
No-one can ask another to be healed. But he can &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; this is the part you don&rsquo;t like.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
But he can let HIMSELF be healed&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; how unfulfilling. How much fuller my relationship would be if I
didn&rsquo;t have to do this all by myself. Well that&rsquo;s false.
Because it&rsquo;s only in a special relationship &ndash; one bound by
mutual agreements &ndash; that mean the two of you are holding
yourselves separate from God, and therefore, your true understanding of
your identity, that it could seem to be justifiable.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
No-one can ask another to be healed. But he can let HIMSELF be healed,
and &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; listen to this &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; thus offer the other what he has received.
</div>

But you see, it won&rsquo;t be offered with any stigma of manipulation
or control or arrogance. My God, when you are filled with Love and you
look at your Brother with Love, that&rsquo;s all there is to it. It
isn&rsquo;t done for an effect, else it isn&rsquo;t Love, it isn&rsquo;t
a simple genuine heart feeling. But when a simple genuine heart feeling
of Love is spontaneously shared, it is received &mdash; it is felt. And
if it isn&rsquo;t felt immediately, it remains there to be recognized.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Who can bestow upon another what he does not have?
</div>

You see? Well, I tell you that when you sit being frustrated and
pissed-off at your Brothers or your mates or you family, whatever, you
are bestowing upon your Brother emptiness. You are bestowing nothing
transformational, because nothing in you has softened, nothing in you
has melted, nothing in you has gentled-up and come forth with humility
that has no designs of any sort on your Brother or Sister. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Who can bestow upon another what he does not have? And who can share
what he denies himself?
</div>

Oh yeah, you deny yourself because you say, &ldquo;Damn! I really have a
right to be pissed-off. The situation here is so unjust that I have
complete reason to be upset and not to abandon my distress.&rdquo; Well,
that&rsquo;s the way you insure death, because that is the practice of
self-righteousness that keeps you separate from the Father and your
divinity because you&rsquo;re bound to a mutual agreement with another
holy Son of God in denial of your holiness.

Don&rsquo;t do it! No matter how reasonable it seems, don&rsquo;t do it!

Listen to this.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit speaks to YOU. He does not speak to someone else.
</div>

You see? Difficult to hear. But you spend a lot of your time thinking
about him and her and so-and-so and what she did and what they&rsquo;re
doing, as though there really is a he, she or it or them or those. When
at the bottom line, there is you perceiving Creation correctly or
incorrectly. And if you are perceiving it incorrectly, the correction
lies in abandoning the misperception, by joining again with the Father
or the Holy Spirit and asking, &ldquo;What is the truth here?&rdquo; not
because of him or her or them or they, but because you don&rsquo;t want
to die from self-righteousness. You don&rsquo;t want to lose the
conscious experience of your eternal divinity for any reason. And so you
must remember that:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit speaks to YOU. He does not speak to someone else.
</div>

As far as you are concerned &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He does not speak to someone else.
</div>

He speaks to YOU. Give your full attention to Him. Why? Because the Holy
Spirit is nothing more than your right Mind. Be willing to pay attention
to your right Mind and stop worrying about whether or not the Holy
Spirit is talking to him or her or them or those. Because as long as you
are imagining him or her or them or those, you are not listening within
yourself to the Holy Spirit &ndash; that is nothing more than your right
Mind. And therefore, you are doing nothing to bring about the conscious
experience of the integrity of you which will involve the experience of
God&rsquo;s Perspective, because that is the Gift of God to you. Again
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit speaks to YOU. He does not speak to someone else. Yet by
your listening, His Voice extends because you have ACCEPTED what He
says.
</div>

Not what He says about someone else or what they ought to do, but you
have ACCEPTED what He says that reveals to you your divine clarity and
therefore, your ability to be utterly appropriate in every relationship
you have. And from there, your relationships will be holy relationships
and not special relationships. That&rsquo;s the benefit of attending to
the use you are putting your mind to.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Health is the witness unto health. As long as it is unattested, it
remains without conviction.
</div>

Well, when you&rsquo;re not asking to know what the truth is here and
you are insisting upon interpreting everything according to the mutual
definitions, then health, Reality has no witness. It&rsquo;s unattested
to and it remains without conviction. You see?

Without conviction there will never be manifestation, there will never
be the evidence. You don&rsquo;t want to be so busily engaged in
self-righteousness that you don&rsquo;t bring conviction into the
picture, which is what will give evidence of health. Whose health? Your
health! When you have your health, you have it to share with others.
And it will be shared because it&rsquo;s obvious, it shows up, everyone
can see it, not because you&rsquo;re some grand teacher. You see?

It&rsquo;s done for you. The communication is carried forward because
that&rsquo;s the way it works. That&rsquo;s the good news &hellip; the
end result of what we&rsquo;ve been talking about in abandoning self-
righteousness.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Health is the witness unto health. As long as it is unattested, it
remains without conviction. Only when demonstrated has it been proved,
and MUST compel belief.
</div>

But you don&rsquo;t have to compel the belief. The demonstration, the
manifestation compels the belief. It&rsquo;s simply obvious.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
No-one is healed through double messages. If you wish only to be healed,
you heal.
</div>

If you wish only to be healed &hellip; if you wish only to be relieved
of the suffering that accompanies the practice of self-righteousness,
stop practicing self-righteousness. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you wish only to be healed, you heal.
</div>

If you wish only to abandon self-righteousness and you abandon
it&hellip; what? You will find yourself to be the unequivocal and the
uncalculated Presence of Love. That&rsquo;s what! That&rsquo;s the
marvel! That&rsquo;s what&rsquo;s transformational. And because
it&rsquo;s Love it&rsquo;s broadcast, it extends because that is its
nature.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you wish only to be healed, you heal. Your SINGLE purpose makes this
possible. But if you are afraid of healing, then it cannot come through
you.
</div>

You see? Black and white, but therefore, simple. If you are not afraid
of healing then it can come through.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The only thing that is required for a healing is a lack of fear.
</div>

Well, we&rsquo;ve talked about the fact that there&rsquo;s been distress
in taking a look at the practice of self-righteousness and in looking at
the effects of self-righteousness expressed by others, and the fact that
it causes you all to feel out of control, and therefore, vulnerable, and
at the bottom line, seeking for some stronger means of control so that
you might get your peace back without doing the only thing that will
bring your peace back, which is to just abandon the practice of
self-righteousness. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The only thing that is required for a healing is a lack of fear. The
fearful are not healed, and cannot heal.
</div>

Why can they not heal, because they are not healed. And as long as you
are trying to manipulate and heal your Brother without your mind being
healed, there will be no healing. But the moment you value your Sanity
and your Peace enough to catch yourself when you are practicing
self-righteousness and immediately abandon it, you will find healing
entering and extending because that&rsquo;s what it does. That&rsquo;s
the good news! That&rsquo;s what this is all about.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The fearful are not healed, and cannot heal. This does not mean the
conflict must be gone forever from your mind.
</div>

You don&rsquo;t have to manage to do it perfectly so that it&rsquo;s
done forever.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This does not mean the conflict must be gone forever from your mind. For
if it were, there were no need for healing then. But it DOES mean, if
only for an instant, you love without attack.

[Repeats] &hellip; it DOES mean, if only for an instant, you love
without attack.
</div>

That is the simplicity of it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
An instant is sufficient. Miracles wait not on time.
</div>

Now:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The holy instant is the miracle&rsquo;s abiding-place.
</div>

What a relief. How wonderful to know that. Practicing the holy instant
is what we&rsquo;ve been talking about, especially in the last few
weeks.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The holy instant is the miracle&rsquo;s abiding-place. From there, each
one &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; each miracle &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is born into this world as witness to a state of mind which has
transcended conflict&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; yours. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
From there&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the holy instant &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
each one &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; each miracle &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is born into this world as witness to a state of mind which has
transcended conflict, and has reached to peace.
</div>

Peace is an ultimate goal, far more important than whether your mate or
family loves you enough to be devoted to you and cause your life to be
bliss.

Again:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
From &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the miracles abiding place, the holy instant, each miracle
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is born into this world as witness to a state of mind &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; yours &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; which has transcended conflict, and has reached to peace. It
carries comfort from the place of peace into the battle-ground, and
demonstrates that war has no effects. For all the hurt that war has
sought to bring, the broken bodies and the shattered limbs, the
screaming dying and the silent dead, are gently lifted up and comforted.
There IS no sadness where a miracle has come to heal.
</div>

There is no sadness where one has abandoned the right he thinks he has
to be self-righteously upset and judgmental of his Brother or Sister.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And nothing more than just ONE instant of your love without attack is
necessary, that all this occur.
</div>

This is the whole point! Don&rsquo;t get hung up on your self-righteous
inclination to jump on your Brother&rsquo;s ass and blame him or your
Sister for causing you to be abused or sad or depressed.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; nothing more than just ONE instant of your love without attack
is necessary, that all this occur. In that one instant are you healed,
and in that single instant is all healing done.
</div>

That is the simplicity. And that is the Father&rsquo;s Love that you are
embraced by and that which is nothing more than your right Mind &ndash;
the Holy Spirit &ndash; is intent upon uncovering the Reality of You to
you when you&rsquo;re willing to abandon the mean-spirited right that
you think you have to judge and hold grievances and never wish to see
your Brother&rsquo;s innocence, which you will automatically see when
you humble yourself and let your divine capacity to be the presence of
Love fill you up and spill over and extend itself spontaneously,
infinitely, because that&rsquo;s what it does &hellip; and blesses
everything.

I love you and I trust that this coming week will not be as nearly
distressing as the past week or two have been, because the perspective
is clearer about what is meaningful and what is meaningless.

I love you very much.

[^1]: T27.5 The Healing Example

