---
title: Aug 11, 2013
ref: Discussion
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

Well, there is still learning to be experienced about self-righteousness
and about the holy instant.

I know that the things I&rsquo;ve had to say about self-righteousness
and the way I have uncovered them &ndash; many styles in which it finds
expression in each of you &ndash; has been disconcerting, unnerving,
unpleasant. And indeed, if you&rsquo;re not careful, you might conclude
that coping with self-righteousness means going on an internal
witch-hunt to find out all the many ways in which you have unconsciously
been practicing it. And of course, that approach involves the belief
that you are uncovering flaws &hellip; flaws in what? Flaws in yourself.

And so it becomes a destructive and depressing process and that needs to
be corrected.

Now there&rsquo;s something important to understand. And that is, that
you cannot engage in self-righteousness alone. It is never a private,
autonomous authoritative self-expression. It&rsquo;s always indulged in
tandem with another. Another way of saying it is, it always involves
relationships.

Therefore, the flaw isn&rsquo;t yours and the flaw isn&rsquo;t that of
the one you&rsquo;ve joined with. It&rsquo;s simply a fantasy that the
two of you have engaged in and given credence to, made commitment to and
made yourself miserable by means of.

Now, you know I spoke some time ago about the fact that God never gave
you the capacity to think. That&rsquo;s not the function of Mind. The
function of Mind is consciousness, awareness, the unlimited experience
of Creation &ndash; of observation of Creation &ndash; of allowing
Creation to register and recognize it for what it Is.

Now that&rsquo;s your normal divine state. That&rsquo;s what opens up to
you and is revealed to you when you engage in the holy instant by
becoming still and enquiring, &ldquo;What is the truth here?&rdquo; You
see? And in the absence of thinking, pure conscious awareness of the
only thing there is to be aware of &ndash; God&rsquo;s Creation &ndash;
unfolds to you. Its uncovered and illuminated to you. And you experience
without thought processes the Meaning of it all.

Here, there is no possibility of self-righteousness. Why? Because
you&rsquo;re not being as an entity in your own right in relationship
with anything else as an entity in its own right. You see?

So you could indeed go on an internal witch-hunt using your intellect
and your so-called capacity to think, to uncover this awful
self-righteousness that is part of you that you need to become free of
if you don&rsquo;t want to die. That&rsquo;s a pretty heavy-duty
indictment on yourself which will absolutely blind you to the simple
answer.

What is the simple answer? It&rsquo;s monotonous, I know.

The simple answer is engage in the holy instant, which means withdraw
from the mutual agreements with your brother or sister. Withdraw from
your imaginations relative to your brothers and sisters. And become
silent &hellip; still the thinking. Become gently quiet with invitation
to Know the truth &hellip; to have the Father&rsquo;s Perspective
revealed to you, which is the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s function. It is to
reveal your right Mind to you.

So to put it simply: The holy instant is the vestibule between autonomy
or privacy and wholeness.

Now, in the past I&rsquo;ve also used the illustration of a sphere
&hellip; a ball made out of pure crystal that has on its surface an
infinite number of facets. And each facet is you. Each facet is one of
the infinite Sons and Daughters of God. Now you are used to the
definition of the facet on the surface of the globe &ndash; of the ball.
And you are used to thinking that that surface is you and you alone. And
you are used to thinking all of the other facets as being other
individualities, them and them alone.

And then there is communication that can occur between all of these
infinite facets &ndash; lines of communication, we&rsquo;ll say, caused
by the boundary between the facets.

Now when looked at that way, that is the equivalent of the orphan
mentality &ndash; the isolated tiny independent alone presence. But if
you will look at the ball from the inside and you view the entire, we
will say, surface of the inside of this infinite ball, you will see all
the Sons and Daughters of God. You will recognize the specific shape of
the facet you Are. But something will have changed. Because as you look
within the ball you find that the whole interior constituted of pure
crystal, is you as well.

The ball is you. And every single one of the Brotherhood of Man is some
aspect of you. Because looking from the inside, all of them are at some
place in the wholeness of the interior of the ball, just as you are.
And so in this way, you can see that all the Sons and the Daughters of
God are One, given apparent definition or individuality by means of the
facet on the surface of the interior, we will say.

Now I&rsquo;m going to back up and say that the holy instant is the
vestibule between the outside and the inside of the crystal ball. The
surface is the vestibule. And when you become still and you wish to Know
the truth, imagine if you will, that it is like no longer looking out as
far as you can see on the horizon of the surface, but that you have as
it were, put your face through the surface as though it were water so
that you can see underneath the surface of the crystal ball.

And you shift from being one among many to being the One that is the
many recognizing at the same time that every other brother and sister is
the One that is the many including you.

How do you handle self-righteousness? By dipping your face into the
surface of the ball that is the delineation between the interior and the
exterior. In doing that you abandon the autonomous relationships of all
of the facets that you can see on the outside, you abandon that in favor
of the experience of wholeness &ndash; of Oneness with all of your
brothers in which there is no way to experience independence or autonomy
even though you do not lose individuality.

Now that is a lot simpler than what you might have found yourself doing
in the last few weeks. As we&rsquo;ve discussed, the danger, the threat,
the impracticality of indulging in self-righteousness &hellip;
don&rsquo;t handle self-righteousness, handle the use to which
you&rsquo;re putting your mind by, deciding not to use it to think and
come to conclusions and to make mutual agreements with other independent
brothers and sisters, but to instead become still.

And in the silence, which is another way of describing the interior
&ndash; the undistinguishable interior of the crystal ball &ndash; so
that the true perception of your brothers and sisters can register with
you while you&rsquo;re just being Mind, not a thinking mind, but Mind,
conscious awareness, soaking up by being curious, the infinite Meanings
of God which are apparent there in the silence, there in the view
through and within the interior of the crystal ball. You see?

The answer is embodied in the holy instant.

Now when I said you can&rsquo;t experience and express
self-righteousness all by yourself, that you can&rsquo;t experience it
until a joining with a brother or sister has occurred, I&rsquo;ve made
it clear that the problem is not a personal private problem of your own,
but that it is the result of an invitation to be upset by someone else
who is upset.

What happens? Someone else has taken the bait from someone else. And
they are now upset and they broadcast an invitation to be upset. And if
you have entertained ideas that are flawed, but ideas which you have no
emotional charge associated with and the invitation from another that
comes to you as a charged invitation, it&rsquo;s the same issue or the
same thought that you have imaginatively toyed with without emotion, you
are easily caught up in having an emotional reaction to what had been an
uncharged thought in you because a brother, someone else has invited
you.

And now you find yourself angry or you find yourself jealous or you find
yourself impatient or judgmental [snaps fingers] out of the blue it
would seem, and you think it&rsquo;s your real thought. You think
it&rsquo;s you. When you would be greatly helped if the moment you
found yourself out of your peace, you ask: &ldquo;Am I picking up on
someone else? Am I being hooked by someone else&rsquo;s reactions? You
see?

Reactions of this sort are not practical means of problem-solving. One
doesn&rsquo;t have to be upset in order to solve a problem or recognize
a problem. In fact, it becomes impossible to solve a problem when you
are upset because the inspiration needed to see outside &ldquo;the
box&rdquo; isn&rsquo;t available to you because you&rsquo;re so tight
and tied up in your reaction which you think is yours and which you
think is legitimate.

And it&rsquo;s not. It&rsquo;s not legitimate for you and it&rsquo;s not
legitimate for the brother who&rsquo;s extending the invitation &hellip;
who received an invitation from another &hellip; who received an
invitation from another &hellip; who received an invitation from another
&hellip; as it goes around the outside of the globe &ndash; the crystal
ball &ndash; on the lines of communication formed by the delineation
between the facets. You see?

How do you break that momentum? How do you break that spontaneous
entrapment that you found yourself in?

Well, by first of all challenging the idea that it&rsquo;s yours. And
asking, &ldquo;Am I being impacted by the emotions of others?&rdquo; I
will tell you, if you are emotionally disturbed the answer is always,
&ldquo;yes&rdquo; because it&rsquo;s impossible for you to experience
self-righteousness all by yourself. What does that mean &hellip; all by
yourself? It means it&rsquo;s impossible to experience it in the silence
of the holy instant. The answer &ndash; the escape from the whole
dilemma &ndash; is a matter of moving into the silence, is a matter of
abandoning the lines of communication around the outside of the crystal
ball and gently placing your face into the surface of the ball and
through it so that your attention shifts from privacy to wholeness, from
your false definitions to the Meanings of Creation that the Father is
Being. You see?

Always, when you are disturbed, when you are indulging in
self-righteousness, you are looking from a victim vantage point and not
from the vantage point of the answer that undoes the victimization. And
whenever you are stuck looking from the victim standpoint you will
remain there and suffer because it is a false vantage point. It
isn&rsquo;t even yours! Except that you&rsquo;ve accepted this
invitation to be upset because someone else is upset &hellip; because
someone else is upset &hellip; because someone else is upset.

Now, the holy instant involves what? The two-step: One, shutting up,
silencing the thinking, silencing the imagination, silencing the logic,
silencing all of the special uses you&rsquo;ve given to your mind, which
is only the means of paying attention, of being conscious. When you
abandon that and then inquire as to what the truth is, the truth is
revealed. It truly is revealed &ndash; illuminated to you. Why? Because
you have asked the Father or the Holy Spirit or your Guide to have the
truth revealed to you.

In other words, you have shifted your attention from the role of victim
and all that goes into the victimization mindset &hellip; you&rsquo;ve
abandoned that and asked to know what the divine view is. You&rsquo;ve
shifted from victim mindset to savior mindset. Not that you are able to
suddenly be the savior, but in the absence of identifying yourself as
the victim and reaching out to That which Knows the answer and asking
for the Perspective of the one Who Knows, you&rsquo;re asking to have
the savior Perspective, the perspective of Wholeness to answer you, to
fill you with clarity. You see? That&rsquo;s the utter simplicity of it.

How do you cope with self-righteousness? You abandon it. You go within,
into the silence and you ask of the Father or the Holy Spirit or your
Guide or me, &ldquo;What is Your Perspective? What is the Father&rsquo;s
Perspective? Share it with me. Reveal it to me, infill me with it, so
that I may have the true experience, not the false imaginative
experience of the orphan mentality &mdash; the victim. You see?

Many movies these days lose the ability to inspire, because they adopt
the vantage point of the victim. And if the answer that heals, if the
answer that corrects, if the practice of intelligence which causes
relief to come, enters into the picture at all it&rsquo;s very brief and
isn&rsquo;t really the point of the picture, because the picture was
about the struggle. The victim vantage point was the vantage point from
which the film was made, conceived. You see?

Do you want that which clarifies, then you must abandon the victim
mentality that you are feeling. You must stop validating it, you must
shut it up and you must say, &ldquo;Father, what is the truth here? I
want nothing but the experience of Your Perspective. Holy Spirit,
perform your function of uncovering to me my right Mind which is my
natural capacity to experience the Father&rsquo;s Perspective, a
capacity He instilled to me because He withheld nothing of what He is
when He created me. I am going to stop playing around with the
excitement of thinking, of valuing my opinion more than the truth, of
valuing my perspective more than the Father&rsquo;s. You see?

That&rsquo;s self-righteousness. And that&rsquo;s you identifying
yourself as one of the facets. Hell, if you&rsquo;ll look into the
interior of the crystal ball you&rsquo;ll find that all of the facets
are you, from a little bit different vantage point, creating a wealth of
diversity and interest and originality. You see?

In that experience is peace. You see?

It&rsquo;s simple. As you go into this coming week, don&rsquo;t be
looking for what new forms of self-righteousness you can find. If
you&rsquo;re not going to engage in the holy instant you&rsquo;ll find
that self-righteousness presents itself uninvited to you, spontaneously.
You don&rsquo;t have to hunt for it. Just notice if you&rsquo;re happy.
&ldquo;Am I happy now? Yes. Am I happy now? Oh, no. Am I happy now? Oh
a little more than I was. Am I happy now?&rdquo; You see? You know
whether you&rsquo;re happy. You know whether you&rsquo;re experiencing
peace. And if you&rsquo;re not, you are identifying as a victim. And
you&rsquo;re acting out the part. And you&rsquo;re using
self-righteousness to validate it. And self-righteousness causes you to
experience everything from the outside of the crystal ball where the
fullness and the wholeness and the Oneness of Being is unavailable to
you and will always be unavailable to you.

The only answer is, gently put your face into the surface of the crystal
ball as though it&rsquo;s water and push down into the water into the
interior of the crystal ball so that everything in its infinite oneness
is available to you as the wholeness of you and the Wholeness of God,
where sin, disease and death disappear and where self-righteousness
doesn&rsquo;t even come up for consideration.

Don&rsquo;t make yourself miserable by looking for flaws in yourself.
There are things that need to be corrected, but an invitation was made
to you to participate in reaction to them, by someone who accepted an
invitation from someone else. And everyone is suffering from something
that isn&rsquo;t theirs, that did not originate with them, but which
they all feel &ndash; including you &ndash; is you having your own
legitimate miserable feelings. And it&rsquo;s not true. And you&rsquo;ll
never be able to successfully search out all the things that are untrue
and get rid of them because only a victim looks for the cause of his
victimization.

The holy Son or Daughter of God abandons the search for the cause of
victimization and joins with the One Mind for the sole purpose of having
what that Mind is, reveal Itself to him or to her, uncovering his or her
wholeness and emancipating him or her from the invitation that had been
accepted and contributing to the release of all the others who had
accepted the invitation, not recognizing it for what it was. The answer
is simple.

Now, I&rsquo;m going to ask you to consider whether or not you&rsquo;re
finding yourself losing more and more control, where you seem to be the
brunt of chance &ndash; not good chance but miserable chance. Are you
finding that more and more things are happening that you&rsquo;re no
longer being able to cope with, so that you feel pushed down further and
further? Good &hellip; good &hellip; because it means that you&rsquo;re
no longer as deeply imbedded in the victim mentality, you&rsquo;re no
longer as deeply imbedded in the orphan mentality and the unreality of
it, the impracticality of it is not escaping your attention.

And the reason I say, &ldquo;good,&rdquo; the reason I say, &ldquo;this
is excellent,&rdquo; is that it is making it easier for you to go ahead
and risk the chance that there is a God, by setting aside your
self-righteousness &mdash; shutting up, which is choosing for your peace
and then activating your curiosity as conscious awareness, as Mind to
Know the truth.

Doing that seems a difficult task, one that it&rsquo;s hard to believe
will work. And that&rsquo;s because up until recently, almost all of you
have had a fair chance of making things work out. And now that capacity
to exercise control is diminishing. The dream is ending. The illusion of
mortal life is failing.

And what is it doing? It&rsquo;s requiring that the holy Son and
Daughter of God that you Are has to claim his and her Birthright and own
it and let it in and have no other option, have no other desire so that
it might clear your mind of all the thinking and all of the commitment
to your thinking and leave it as the pure capacity to be aware of the
Movement of God without distortion and Wake up, ascend into Heaven
without dying.

Let there be encouragement from what I am saying. Don&rsquo;t tolerate
self-righteousness when it occurs. Recognize it when it happens.
Don&rsquo;t tolerate if for an instant. Simply abandon it. It is not
practical. It is not useful. And it will seem to kill you, because it
secures the illusion of mortality even though you are immortal and the
death will not be real and you will still be faced with having to make
this simple choice that we&rsquo;re talking about this evening.

So what do you have to lose, except the right to be pissed off whenever
you feel like it? What do you have to lose besides being able to be
miserable whenever you want? What do you have to lose beside sickness
and pain and disease? Nothing!

So I&rsquo;m going to say, &ldquo;lighten up.&rdquo; Don&rsquo;t pursue
an inner witch-hunt. Lighten up and do this irrational thing of
abandoning self-righteousness the moment you notice it by doing the one
simple thing &ndash; the two-step &ndash; practicing the holy instant.
You&rsquo;ll have plenty of opportunity because it&rsquo;s so easy to be
reactive, it&rsquo;s so easy to be miserable, it&rsquo;s so easy to have
a negative interpretation about everything. Hey, everybody is to some
degree feeling really miserable and their misery constitutes an
invitation to you to feel miserable, even though without the invitation
you could avoid it to a certain degree and not be quite as
uncomfortable.

So the answer again is simple. Remember that. And this week practice the
irrational step of immediately recognizing when you&rsquo;ve lost your
peace and no matter what the justifications seem to be for it, get back
into your peace. Shut up and ask to be informed by the Father, by the
Holy Spirit, by me, by your Guide as to what the real truth is that will
erase your illusions.

I love you very much, all of you. And I look forward to being with you
next time.

