---
title: Aug 25, 2013
ref: Discussion
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

From time to time, some of you have said that a particular study group
was just for you &ndash; it hit everything on the head so specifically
that it was as though it couldn&rsquo;t possibly have been for anyone
else but you.

Well, during the last few weeks when we&rsquo;ve been talking about
self-righteousness and the practice of the holy instant, Paul has had
exactly the same feeling. I managed to express the ideas in such a
compelling way or such an understandable way to him, that he was able to
easily bring commitment to listening instead of thinking, to doing the
two-step. And he endeavored to do that all day long and always failed.

True, there were many periods where instead of responding himself to
whatever occurred, he would check with me and listen for me to respond.

But then, a simple thing like Susan saying, &ldquo;Remind me to pick up
some red peppers at the grocery store&rdquo; and he would say,
&ldquo;Okay,&rdquo; just spontaneously, like &ldquo;No problem,
I&rsquo;ll do that!&rdquo; And yet, that&rsquo;s not what listening is
about. That&rsquo;s not what doing the two-step is about. Something as
apparently innocuous as a remark, &ldquo;Remind me to pick up some red
peppers&rdquo; can be all it takes to reinstate the habit of thinking
for one&rsquo;s self and abandoning the union with one&rsquo;s Guide or
with the Holy Spirit or with the Father. And this happened incessantly
for Paul. And it was discouraging but nevertheless he persisted.

It was so utterly clear to him, especially when he would review the
audio of the meetings. It was so utterly clear how could one not choose
to listen and respond from the joining that provides the perspective of
Reality, the perspective where needs are met, where solutions are
illuminated and problems are negated.

And yet, the habit of spontaneously thinking would constantly reassert
itself. In a way, it made everything I had said seem like a tease or
something insincere because he couldn&rsquo;t do it. It didn&rsquo;t
happen as easily as I made it sound.

So in many ways, the last few weeks were distressing. It illuminated to
him just how much he needed to practice what I was teaching and
illuminating. It illustrated to him &hellip; his spontaneous practice
illustrated to him how consistently he got in the way of healing or
revelation or illumination and therefore, the correction of problems.

Nevertheless, he persisted. Then shortly before last week&rsquo;s
scheduled study group, a series of things happened which were such that
they engaged his thinking with inordinate intensity. They were
distressing. And his habitual way of looking at things caused him to
think that he knew what the answers were and that he had a right to be
upset.

And so, even though he wasn&rsquo;t engaging in the two-step, he was
fooling himself into believing that his definition of reasonableness was
correct and therefore, he was justified in being upset and that upset
him even more. His confirmation of the distressing nature of the things
that occurred caused him to become obsessive in his perspective and
another way of saying that is, obsessive in his self-righteousness. You
see?

The minute one believes that his perspective is right, and that
perspective is disturbing, one finds it very difficult to disengage from
it because after all, it&rsquo;s pure intelligence, isn&rsquo;t it.
It&rsquo;s purely intelligent &ndash; the justification for being upset
is purely intelligent because it&rsquo;s reasonable, right?

And so, his failure to be able to remain with me constantly, remembering
to ask, &ldquo;What is the truth here?&rdquo; caused the last few weeks
to be distressing and then these events occurred and they capped it off.

Last week when I spoke about the crystal ball and each of you, including
Paul, being one of the facets on the surface of the ball, and I talked
about putting one&rsquo;s face into the facet and moving through to the
interior of the ball, that became interpreted by his distorted
perception as being very dangerous. After all, it makes one very
vulnerable. Why? Because if you&rsquo;re down on your hands and knees
and you are pushing your face gently through the facet, what in the
world is it that&rsquo;s sticking up in the air? It&rsquo;s your ass
sitting there just waiting for someone to kick it! That&rsquo;s not
safe.

The practice of shifting one&rsquo;s attention to the interior, well,
although intellectually he grasped it, he found that to be unnerving.
His mindset was out of kilter. He became exhausted by the drama and the
trauma of his perspective and his obsession with it &hellip; and because
of the obsession, his inability to find it justifiable to shut up and
engage in the first part of the two-step.

Nevertheless, he persisted. He did in spite of the discouragement, in
spite of the exhaustion and as this past week proceeded, his perspective
became better. He was able to intellectually see that if he wasn&rsquo;t
in his peace, he would be misinterpreting the events that happened and
would try to solve them on the basis of the misinterpretation which
would never work.

Now I shared with him a couple of days ago, a variation of a thought
that I expressed many times, many years ago: That being, that the only
right use of will is not to use it &hellip; except that a couple days
ago, I said it this way: I said, &ldquo;The right use of will &hellip;
the only right use of will is to agree with God.&rdquo; You see?

Disagreeing with God is the wrong use of will. That is the act of
self-righteousness. But the right use of will is to agree with God.
That is Paul&rsquo;s function &hellip; that is the function of every
single Son and Daughter of God. And how does one agree with God? By
turning to God first and saying, &ldquo;What is the truth here? What is
your Perspective?&rdquo; And that&rsquo;s what Paul had been trying to
do for the last few weeks in order to stay with me.

Now, why am I sharing this? I&rsquo;m sharing it because Paul has
experienced not being a success at the Guidance that I&rsquo;ve shared
with all of you. And of course, that doesn&rsquo;t fit in with
righteousness, does it? Righteousness is all about being right. And not
only that, it&rsquo;s about being right and therefore, because of being
right, being credible, being valid. That&rsquo;s self-righteousness.
That is egotism. That is to be confused.

Now, Paul still finds himself tonight, disturbed by the events that
happened, even though their resolution has begun to appear when he was
able to shut up and move into the silence and in the absence of fear
ask, &ldquo;Well, what is the answer here? What is that which meets the
need, by showing that it is not unsolvable?&rdquo;

Nevertheless, he is still suffering from not being able to consistently
engage in the two-step. And so, his frame of mind is still wearing him
down, wearing him out and making him difficult [chuckles] for Susan to
live with because his fear dominates his behavior.

It has taken courage for him tonight to be having the Gathering. And
he&rsquo;s hearing me quite well. And I am speaking truly to him, for
him even though what I am saying is certainly not foreign to anyone else
listening. But tonight he is managing to be joined with me and he is
willing to not be perfect. You see, one might say, and certainly
Paul&rsquo;s ego says, &ldquo;Well, if you&rsquo;ve been talking with
Jesus for thirty-one years, how come this is happening? What kind of an
example are you? How do you think this will look to everyone
else?&rdquo; &mdash; as though that was important.

And so I&rsquo;m here to tell him that what everyone else thinks, what
any of you might have opinions of about him, are irrelevant &ndash;
they&rsquo;re sidetracks to his clarity. Because the answer will never
come as a result of caring about what other people think. It will only
come from caring about, we&rsquo;ll say, what I think or what the Holy
Spirit thinks or Knows. And caring about that enough to enquire as to
what it is.

Now, because there is the idea, the self-righteous idea in Paul&rsquo;s
mind that he had some kind of a position to uphold in everyone&rsquo;s
eyes, he couldn&rsquo;t possibly share his incapacity of his present
inability to cope well with a series of apparently overwhelming things
that had occurred. And so in order to look good and not cause any
negative opinions, you put him in a position of severe privacy.

And you know what? Tonight I&rsquo;m covering his back and I&rsquo;m
covering his back by sharing his incapacity, sharing his current
inability to consistently practice the two-step. It&rsquo;s important
for him not to be alone as he is learning how to consistently stay at
the point of attention to me or to the Holy Spirit, so as to stay right
where the clarity can come forth, because he&rsquo;s not distracted by
what doesn&rsquo;t matter. You see? I&rsquo;m covering his back by
sharing this with you.

Now, does that mean you have a responsibility of some sort to fulfill?
Not at all &ndash; this is not in any way a guilt trip. But you know
what? The Brotherhood and Sisterhood of the Children of God constitutes
a Family. And being stuck in an isolated frame of mind is the antithesis
of Family. And so I&rsquo;m restoring Family right now. I&rsquo;m
covering Paul&rsquo;s back. It&rsquo;s that simple. And that is my one
and only task tonight, so that he will not be alone &hellip; the only
one besides Sue who knows what&rsquo;s going on and how it seems to be
undermining his sense of worth, weakening his resolve you might say,
although I promise you that is not possible. His devotion to the truth
and his devotion to our sharing with everyone is absolute.

The suggestion is &ndash; the frightening suggestion is that there may
not be any way to continue to doing it. But you know what? Paul knows
better than that. And he knows that no matter what might change, his
commitment to sharing the truth that emancipates everyone from sin,
disease and death is more important than anything else and he will not
abandon it.

Your simply knowing what&rsquo;s going on with him &ndash; not the
idealized picture everyone might have of him, but the real humane
picture of the labor he&rsquo;s involved in &ndash; in learning to do
the two-step consistently, that&rsquo;s what&rsquo;s important. Family
is reestablished by the mutual Knowing and the natural mutual love that
occurs.

Have I spoken out of turn? No. Have I upset or distressed Paul? No.
He&rsquo;s relieved to know that he&rsquo;s not the only one who knows
isolation is no fun, independence is no fun. He knows you are there and
it is very meaningful to him. And I stand with him and with you as each
of you involves yourself in the labor of abandoning independence and
engaging in the two-step and not being too proud to be Real with each
other in the process.

I love you all. And I look forward to being with you next time.

