---
title: Sept 23, 2013
ref: T30.1 Rules for Decision
alink: "/acim/text/30/chap3001/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who is joining us on the internet.
We have jumped ahead in the book to the next to the last chapter
&ndash; Chapter 30. And the Chapter is entitled:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*The New Beginning*[^1]
</div>

And it begins &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The new beginning now becomes the focus of the curriculum.
</div>

Well, actually the new beginning has been the very clear focus of what
I&rsquo;ve been teaching ever since we began at the beginning of the
book, but especially since last May. I have been homing in on the
practice of the holy instant, which is the new beginning.

Again:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The new beginning now becomes the focus of the curriculum. The goal is
clear&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and certainly, I&rsquo;ve been making it clear over and over
and over again for the last few months.

Then last week, we talked about inertia. We talked about the fact that
habits are not abandoned easily. Inertia is the tendency to continue
doing what has been happening. You have all been thinkers. You have all
thought that thinking was something that constantly goes on. It&rsquo;s
what happens whenever you&rsquo;re conscious. And we&rsquo;ve been
correcting that misunderstanding.

Now the fact is that when you engage in practicing the holy instant, the
first step is to become silent &ndash; to still the mind, to stop the
thinking. And you have found it difficult to do. You still the thinking
and then you ask of the Holy Spirit or the Father, &ldquo;What is the
truth?&rdquo; and you listen, still remaining silent &ndash; still not
thinking.

I have shared with you, and you have had the experience, even if it is
an inconsistent experience, that when you listen having inquired beyond
your thinking, the Answer will be provided.

You are not meant to be unconscious of the Father&rsquo;s Perspective.
His Perspective is instilled in you, embodied in you. And since you have
substituted your own thinking for that, you are having to undo the habit
so that your right Mind can be returned to you, so that you might
discover that you are indeed, the holy Son or Daughter of God.

So, again in the book:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The goal is clear, but now you need specific methods for attaining it.
</div>

Why? Because of inertia. That&rsquo;s why we are moving forward in the
book because this section will illustrate You to you in your process of
learning to listen and not reestablishing thinking. It is something I
encourage you to keep with you constantly until you have arrived at the
point where you practice the holy instant without interruption. Because
listening, joining, hearing and cooperating with God is the divinely
natural way for you to be. And it is inevitable for that to become
reestablished as your, shall I say, new habit of Being. So:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The goal is clear, but now you need specific methods for attaining it.
The speed by which it can be reached depends on this one thing alone;
your willingness to practice every step.
</div>

And of course, we&rsquo;ve referred to the practice of the holy instant
as the practice of the two-step:

Step one: Shutting up.

Step two: Asking, &ldquo;What is the truth here? What do I need to Know?
What is Your Perspective, Father?&rdquo;

And then while continuing to be silent, listening while you are infilled
with the Answer.

Now the time will come when you will stop asking questions because your
attention &ndash; your ongoing attention &ndash; will be the question
itself. And the ongoing attention will allow for the ongoing influx of
the Father&rsquo;s Perspective now &hellip; now &hellip; now &hellip;
now. And you won&rsquo;t ask questions anymore as though you are an
unknowing entity that must enquire in order to know something. So:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The speed by which it can be reached depends on this one thing alone;
your willingness to practice every step.
</div>

Now:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Each one will help a little every time it is attempted. And together
will these steps lead you from dreams of judgment &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; thinking &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; to forgiving dreams and out of pain and fear. They are not new
to you&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that&rsquo;s important. They are not new to you. We&rsquo;ve
discussed them at length. You even know how to practice them without
being confused about what the practice is.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
They are not new to you, but they are more ideas than rules of thought
to you as yet. So now we need to practice them awhile, until they are
the rules by which you live.
</div>

No longer merely ideas.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
We seek to make them habits now, so you will have them ready for
whatever need.
</div>

And so we have a new section entitled:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*Rules for Decision*
</div>

These are the steps you will take when you fail at the two-step.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Decisions are continuous. You do not always know when you are making
them. But with a little practice with the ones you recognize, a set
begins to form which sees you through the rest. It is not wise to let
yourself become preoccupied with every step you take. The proper set,
adopted consciously each time you wake, will put you well ahead.
</div>

Well, what do you imagine the sets might be? Again, fortunately,
it&rsquo;s simple. There are only two sets to choose from and each set
represents the voice you&rsquo;re choosing to listen to &ndash; the
voice you&rsquo;re giving your attention to. The results are entirely
different &ndash; a hundred and eighty degrees out of sync with each
other. They are easy to recognize. But listening to the Voice for
Truth, the Holy Spirit is something you&rsquo;re not totally familiar
with. Listening to the voice for fear you are well versed in.

And so, you must learn how to distinguish between the two so that a
choice can be made.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The proper set, adopted consciously each time you wake&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; every morning &hellip; every morning as we&rsquo;ve discussed,
before you climb out of bed, decide which voice you&rsquo;re going to
listen to today. And then make the connection right there while your
head is still on the pillow. &ldquo;Oh, you don&rsquo;t have time? Oh,
my goodness, you&rsquo;ve got to get to work? Oh, you&rsquo;ve got a
whole lot of things to do before you go out the door because you forgot
to take care of it last night?&rdquo;

NO! Before anything else say, &ldquo;Holy Spirit, are you there?&rdquo;
You see? Simple. The means of connection is simple and only takes a
moment. &ldquo;Holy Spirit, are you there? My Guide, are you
there?&rdquo; And don&rsquo;t move until you hear the answer,
&ldquo;Yes.&rdquo; And then tell your Guide that you intend to stay with
Him or Her throughout the day and if you fail, you ask for help. Then
get up and begin to take care of the things that need to be taken care
of. But be careful, because the tendency will be to take charge once
again without being in communion with your Guide &hellip; without having
the Father&rsquo;s Perspective available to you to know how to deal with
whatever the needs are. So:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The proper set, adopted consciously each time you wake, will put you
well ahead. And if you find resistance strong and dedication weak, you
are not ready. DO NOT FIGHT YOURSELF.
</div>

You see? When you realize, &ldquo;Oops, I started thinking for
myself!&rdquo; do not get angry with yourself, do not fight yourself, do
not criticize or condemn yourself.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
But think about the kind of day you want, and tell yourself there IS a
way in which this very day can happen just like that. Then try again to
have the day you want.
</div>

What kind of day do you want? Does that mean to imagine that you would
like to drive down a freeway where everyone is easy-going where you
encounter no accidents? Does it mean that you imagine events that you
would like to have? Or, does it mean that you&rsquo;re going to return
to the basic point of deciding which voice you&rsquo;re going to listen
to.

Which voice is going to be your companion through the day?

So think about the kind of day you want. A day joined with the Holy
Spirit guiding you surely and safely and happily through your day
whatever happens.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[But] think about the kind of day you want, and tell yourself there IS a
way in which this very day can happen just like that.
</div>

There is a way for you to have the day joined with the Holy Spirit.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Then try again to have the day you want.
</div>

Reconnect and stay connected.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The outlook starts with this &hellip;
</div>

And these are the rules:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
One: &ldquo;Today I will make no decisions by myself.&rdquo;
</div>

Sound familiar? &ldquo;Today I will listen for Thy Voice lest my
footsteps stray. Today I will make decisions only in tandem with Your
Guidance. I will let You tell me what my decisions are to be.&rdquo;

Again:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&ldquo;Today I will make no decisions by myself.&rdquo;
</div>

This means that you are choosing not to be the judge of what to do. And
this is what is so insulting to the ego. It must be the judge of what to
do. Because in that way it builds itself up. It creates credibility for
itself, which of course, it has none of. So:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This means that you are choosing not to be the judge of what to do. But
it must also mean you will not judge the situations where you will be
called upon to make response.
</div>

Now I&rsquo;ll tell you, that almost daily Paul will get up in the
morning and ask, &ldquo;What&rsquo;s the order of the day?&rdquo; And I
will share with him the general outline and sometimes even specifics
regarding the day and he&rsquo;s very cooperative &ndash; agreeable. And
he has a sense of an orderly day ahead of him that has been set by a
tone from me.

And then as he proceeds through the day, events happen that I
didn&rsquo;t mention, or situations arise that cause him to have to
extend himself in places he doesn&rsquo;t feel like extending himself.
And it becomes problematic. And he&rsquo;s had to recognize that
choosing not to be the judge of what to do must also mean he will not
judge the situations where he is called upon to make response.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For if you judge them&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; if he judges them &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
you have set the rules &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you have set the rules, he has &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; set the rules for how [he] should react to them. And then
another answer cannot but produce confusion and uncertainty and fear.
</div>

Well, Paul has found very often that another answer from the one he is
sure of, very often involves engaging in the activity that he
didn&rsquo;t want to engage in, because, well, it wasn&rsquo;t as holy
as the outline of the day that I had shared with him.

And so, when I say to him, &ldquo;Here is the place to let me speak,
here is the place to love enough to not abandon the situation or the
individual, and relieve yourself of the effort it takes to ask to know
what the truth is in a situation you&rsquo;re interested in doing that
in.&rdquo; You see?

Every single one of you has or will have that experience. And so, when
he gets another answer &ndash; an answer different from the one
I&rsquo;m giving &ndash; it produces confusion and uncertainty and fear.
You see? Because Paul has the tendency to feel secure if he knows with
Guidance what is going to happen, or what needs to be attended to. And
that&rsquo;s not the place to get security.

Security is acquired by learning as a surfer learns, to always stay at
the point of balance on the moving wave. You see? Now:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is your major problem now. You still make up your mind, and THEN
decide to ask what you should do. And what you hear may not resolve the
problem as YOU saw it first. This leads to fear because it contradicts
what you perceive, and so you feel attacked.
</div>

Well, what if you have a partner who is also engaging in practicing the
holy instant and the two-step, and that partner knows that you are as
well? And so, when you get off the beam, by taking authority over the
situation without being joined and [he/she] points it out to you, you
feel attacked. Or even just having an answer different from the one you
expected can cause you to feel unembraced, at odds with &hellip; when
after all, your intent is to be cooperating &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and so you feel attacked. And therefore angry.
</div>

Now:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There are rules by which this will not happen.
</div>

And these are the rules we&rsquo;re talking about, the rules for
decision.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There are rules by which this will not happen. But it does occur at
first, while you are learning how to hear.
</div>

You see how beautifully and simply it expresses what we&rsquo;ve been
discussing?

Now Rule number two:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Four: Throughout the day, at any time you think of it, and have a quiet
moment for reflection, tell yourself again the kind of day you want;
the feelings you would have, the things you want to happen to you,
and the things you would experience, and say,

"If I make no decision by myself, This is the kind of day that will be
GIVEN me."
</div>

It&rsquo;s that simple. Tell yourself again the kind of day you want: A
joined day &ndash; a day in which you are companioned with the Holy
Spirit or the Christ or the Father. That&rsquo;s the kind of day you
want and the feelings you would have that accompany that joining, the
things you want to happen to you. Well, the things you want to happen to
you are the things that the Father unfolds.

And the things you would experience? The Perspective and the capacity to
feel divinely every aspect of what unfolds in your day. You see? And so
you say:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
"If I make no decision by myself, This is the kind of day that will be
GIVEN me."

These two procedures&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the first two rules &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; practiced well, will serve to let you be directed without fear,
for opposition will not first arise and then become a problem in itself.

But there will still be times when you have judged already. Now the
answer will provoke attack, unless you quickly straighten out your mind
to want an answer that will work. Be certain this has happened if you
feel yourself unwilling to sit by, and ask to have the answer given you.
</div>

You see? Well, who wants to sit by [chuckle] and have the answer given
to him when he can figure it out for himself? Or he already knows what
the answer is and simply needs to implement it.

Well, if you feel yourself unwilling to be what feels to you like being
a dunce on a stool, having not enough gumption to get answers yourself,
but to ask for someone else or something else to provide you with the
answer, well, you can be certain that you&rsquo;re not joined anymore.
And the feeling will be entirely different: One hundred an eighty
degrees out of sync with what you will feel when you are listening to
and not resisting the Holy Spirit, which I will remind you, is nothing
more than your right Mind. So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; if you feel yourself unwilling to sit by, and ask to have the
answer given you. This means you HAVE decided by yourself, and cannot
see the QUESTION. Now you need a quick restorative before you ask.
</div>

And so here&rsquo;s rule number three:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Three: Remember once again the day you want &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; a joined day, a day in communion where every event and
experience of the day is viewed through a Partnership &ndash; a
Partnership in which you insist upon deferring to the Partner and
letting yourself be lovingly and safely and wonderfully Guided through
the day while you get the hang of Being without being an authority. You
see?

Again, the beginning of Rule number three:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Three: Remember once again the day you want, and recognize that
something has occurred which is not part of it. Then realize that you
have asked a question by yourself, and must have set an answer in your
terms.
</div>

So what do you do?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Then say,

"I HAVE no question. I forgot what to decide."
</div>

You see, when you&rsquo;re not joined, when you&rsquo;re not in
communion, you don&rsquo;t ask questions, you just assert answers. So
when you find yourself uncomfortable because you&rsquo;re not joined,
you must realize that in your independent state,

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&ldquo;I HAVE no question. I forgot what to decide.&rdquo;
</div>

&ldquo;I forgot what kind of day I wanted &hellip; a joined day, a day
in communion.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This cancels out the terms which you have set, [and by which you have 
made yourself miserable] and lets the ANSWER show you what the question 
must have really been.
</div>

You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Try to observe this rule without delay, despite your opposition. For you
have ALREADY gotten angry, and your fear of being answered in a
different way from what your version of the questions asks will gain
momentum, until you believe the day you want is one in which you get
YOUR answer to YOUR question.
</div>

You see? And when you&rsquo;re in this state of mind, you&rsquo;re
angry, you&rsquo;re assertive, you&rsquo;re overbearing, you&rsquo;re
thoughtless, you&rsquo;re insensitive and uninvolved.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And you will not get it&hellip;
</div>

You will not get your answer to your question.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And you will not get it, for it would destroy the day by robbing you of
what you REALLY want.
</div>

It will rob you of the joined day in communion and the blessing of
having a real experience of your right Mind and the Kingdom of Heaven.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This can be very hard to realize&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; of course, because you&rsquo;re angry and because your
insistent on getting your way.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This can be very hard to realize, when once you have decided by yourself
the rules which promise you a happy day.
</div>

And every single one of you are well experienced in setting the rules,
which you believe will promise you a happy day.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet this decision still can be undone, by simple methods which you can
accept.
</div>

It&rsquo;s very important to understand that each of these rules are
very simple &hellip; very simple &hellip; easy to engage &hellip; easy
to grasp even when you&rsquo;re in a fit &ndash; an ego tantrum. And so
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; this decision still can be undone, by simple methods which you
can accept.
</div>

And we have rule number four:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Four: If you are so unwilling to receive you cannot even let your
question go&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; oh, your beloved question that you&rsquo;ve created that
assures you of an answer that you want, whether it&rsquo;s right or not.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you are so unwilling to receive you cannot even let your question go,
you can begin to change your mind with this:

"At least I can decide I do not LIKE what I feel now."
</div>

Mind you, you&rsquo;re very familiar with what you&rsquo;re feeling at
that moment. You&rsquo;re very familiar with being upset because your
will is being thwarted. You&rsquo;re very familiar with that and it
doesn&rsquo;t naturally occur to you to think that there may be another
way of perceiving, that you can change your mind or cancel out that
action. But this rule number four, that you can change your mind with
this:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
"At least I can decide I do not LIKE what I feel now."
</div>

Is the means of being able to reasonably consider changing your mind.
And that&rsquo;s what helps release you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This much is obvious&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that you do not like what you feel now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and paves the way for the next easy step.
</div>

Rule number five:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Five: Having decided that you do not like the way you feel, what could
be easier than to continue with,

"And so I HOPE I have been wrong."
</div>

Now, the fact is that it&rsquo;s an easy step, but it&rsquo;s not always
easy to embrace it in the heat of the moment. Nevertheless, you are
consciously engaged in wanting to Wake up &ndash; experience the
Atonement. You&rsquo;re not studying the Course for nothing.
You&rsquo;re not listening to my words for no reason.

And so, when you&rsquo;re in this fit of anger, where self-assertion and
the making of your own decisions seem to be in perfect order, you do
have a means of breaking out of that pattern &hellip; of abandoning that
habit.

And so you continue with:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
"And so I HOPE I have been wrong."
</div>

There is a way for you to actually feel the hope that you&rsquo;ve been
wrong, even if it&rsquo;s not fully felt.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This works against the sense of opposition, and reminds you that help is
not being thrust upon you, but is something that you want and that you
need, because you do not like the way you feel. This tiny opening will
be enough to let you go ahead with just a few more steps you need to let
yourself be helped.

Now you have reached the turning-point&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; when you can find yourself in the place where you say and feel
and mean:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; &ldquo;I HOPE I have been wrong."
</div>

You&rsquo;ve reached the turning-point. You&rsquo;re no longer caught by
a commitment to a habit &hellip; a habit of self-righteousness.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Now you have reached the turning-point, because it has occurred to you
that YOU will gain if what you have decided is not so.
</div>

Now, that&rsquo;s a learning. To realize that you will gain in the
understanding that what you have decided is not so, that is something
acquired through practice. And every time you actually let go of what
you have decided, and you find yourself hearing your companion &ndash;
your companion&rsquo;s advice and guidance &ndash; and experience the
benefit of it, it makes it easier and easier with each successive try.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Until this point is reached, you will believe your happiness depends on
being RIGHT.
</div>

And that&rsquo;s where anger and self-righteousness and attack come into
play, as you substantiate your puny little self and try to make it
valid, forgetting that if you will abandon that and move into your peace
and enquire to know what the truth really is, you will be blessed and
not cursed.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Until this point is reached, you will believe your happiness depends on
being RIGHT. But this much reason have you now attained; you would be
better off if you were WRONG.
</div>

Now again, I want to remind you to come to this section in the Book when
you find yourself upset, and read, because as you read you&rsquo;re
going to find the specific point you&rsquo;re at spelled out for you,
together with the rule that will release you. It&rsquo;s important.

Rule number six:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Six: This tiny gain of wisdom will suffice to take you further. You are
not coerced, but merely hope to get a thing you want. [And thus] And you
can say in perfect honesty,

"I WANT another way to look at this."
</div>

There&rsquo;s where you open the door. There&rsquo;s where you release
yourself. This is the place in the two-step or the practice of the holy
instant where you open your door and let the Holy Spirit or the Father
in and experience yourself in your right Mind, even though it seems at
the moment to be coming from elsewhere.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
"I WANT another way to look at this."

Now you have changed your mind about the day, and have remembered what
you REALLY want. Its purpose has no longer been obscured by the insane
belief you want it for the goal of being right when you are wrong.
</div>

And the interesting thing is that you will be able to see that your goal
of being right was entertained when you were wrong. You will be
objective enough to be able to recognize that what you&rsquo;re doing
won&rsquo;t work, because when you thought what was right is actually
wrong, it&rsquo;s something you don&rsquo;t want to have anything to do
with and you abandon it easily.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Thus is the readiness for asking brought to your awareness, for you
cannot be in conflict when you ask for what you want, and see that it IS
this for which you ask.
</div>

What is it you want? You want the result of being joined, of being in
communion throughout your day asking and inviting for your Guide&rsquo;s
Perspective to be shared with you so that you can see the day as it
truly is, rather than the way you believe it is or expect it to be,
based upon your decisions.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Seven: This final step &hellip;
</div>

&ldquo;I want another way to look at this.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is but acknowledgment of lack of opposition to be helped. It is
a statement of an open mind, not certain yet, but willing to be shown:

"Perhaps there IS another way to look at this. What can I LOSE by
asking?"
</div>

You see? The steps have brought you back to the initial starting point
of the holy instant where you practice the two-step, where you shut up
and you enquire:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
"Perhaps there IS another way to look at this. What can I LOSE by
asking?"

Thus you now can ask a question that makes sense, and so the answer will
make sense as well. Nor will you fight against it, for you see that it
is YOU who will be helped by it.

It must be clear that it is easier to have a happy day if you prevent
unhappiness from entering at all. But this takes practice in the rules
which will protect you from the ravages of fear. When this has been
achieved, the sorry dream of judgment has forever been undone. But
meanwhile, you have need for practicing the rules for its undoing.
</div>

As you found out especially in the last couple of weeks, the inertia of
thinking blocks you and keeps you from the results you want &ndash;
healing, harmony, a clear sense of yourself as the holy Son or Daughter
of God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[So] meanwhile, you have need for practicing the rules for its undoing.
Let us, then, consider once again the very first of the decisions which
are offered here.

We said you can begin a happy day with the determination not to make
decisions by yourself. This seems to be a real decision in itself. And
yet&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; listen to this &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you CANNOT make decisions by yourself. The only question really
is with WHAT you choose to make them. That is really all.
</div>

See, when you Wake up and you decide which Guide you are wanting to
companion with through the day, you are making a decision. But you
can&rsquo;t make a decision all by yourself. So that decision will be
made with either with the Holy Spirit or the voice for fear. Let&rsquo;s
continue:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The only question really is with WHAT you choose to make them. That is
really all. The first rule, then, is not coercion, but a simple
statement of a simple fact. You will not make decisions by yourself
WHATEVER you decide. For they are made with idols or with God. And you
ask help of Christ or anti-Christ, and which you choose will join with
you, and tell you what to do.

Your day is not at random. It is set by what you choose to live it with,
and how the friend whose counsel you have sought perceives your
happiness. You always ask advice before you can decide on anything. Let
THIS be understood, and you can see there cannot be coercion here, nor
grounds for opposition that you may be free. There IS no freedom from
what must occur. And if you think there is, you must be wrong.
</div>

You don&rsquo;t have freedom to make decisions by yourself, although you
may have thought you have made decisions by yourself. You haven&rsquo;t!
But now that you know that you can listen for the Voice for Truth and
now that you&rsquo;ve experienced hearing the Voice for Truth, it
becomes easier for you to recognize when you are hearing another voice
and you&rsquo;re able to glean from the learning that it&rsquo;s not
your voice. Now:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The second rule as well is but a fact.
</div>

Rule number two:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
"If I make no decision by myself, This is the kind of day that will be
GIVEN me."

The second rule as well is but a fact. For you and your advisor must
agree on what you want before it can occur. It is but this AGREEMENT
which permits all things to happen.
</div>

You see? You&rsquo;ve never been isolated, you&rsquo;ve never been
alone. When you have listened to the voice for fear you have been
listening to an illusion, and to that extent you are not connected to
anything actual. But when you listen to the Voice for Truth or the Holy
Spirit, you are in agreement with Something that is actual. And
that&rsquo;s why it can supercede and over-throw the idols, the
anti-Christ.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Nothing can be caused without some form of union, be it with a dream of
judgment or the Voice for God. Decisions cause results BECAUSE they are
not made in isolation. They are made by you and your advisor, for
yourself, and for the world as well.
</div>

You see the unity of it? You see the integrity of the union of you and
your Advisor, of you and the Holy Spirit, of you and that which is
nothing more than your right Mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The day you want you offer to the world, for it will be what you have
asked for, and will reinforce the rules of your advisor in the world.
</div>

&ldquo;Thy Kingdom come, Thy Will be done on Earth as it is in
Heaven.&rdquo;[^2]

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Whose kingdom is the world for you today?
</div>

The Kingdom of the Voice for Truth or the kingdom of the voice for fear?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What kind of day will you decide to have?
</div>

And I will add: Even if you have to decide for it over and over and over
and over all day long.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What kind of day will you decide to have?

It needs but two who would have happiness this day to promise it to all
the world. It needs but two to understand that they cannot decide alone,
to guarantee the joy they asked for will be wholly shared. For they have
understood the basic law that makes decision powerful, and gives it all
effects that it will ever have. It needs but two. These two are joined
before there CAN be a decision. Let this be the one reminder that you
keep in mind, and you will have the day you want, and give it to the
world by having it yourself. Your judgment has been lifted from the
world by your decision for a happy day. And as you have received, so
must you give.
</div>

Again:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your judgment has been lifted from the world by your decision for a
happy day.
</div>

And what constitutes your decision for a happy day? The decision to make
no decisions by yourself, but only in communion with the Voice for
Truth, which is your choice for your companion, a choice that you need
to practice making over and over and over again, until it becomes a
habit, and blesses you by your return of sanity, as the holy Son and
holy Daughter of God.

Now, I don&rsquo;t usually read so much in one get together, but this
needed to be expressed in its wholeness because it&rsquo;s the answer to
any problems you encountered as a result of attempting to put into
practice what we talked about last week, and overcome inertia.

I invite you to read this section over many times this coming week and
let it re-assure you and let it prompt you to get back on the beam and
let it provide the simple means for doing it. That is what it is here
for.

I love you very much. And I look forward to being with you next time.

[^1]: T30.1 Rules for Decision
[^2]: Mathew 6:10

