---
title: Oct 6, 2013
ref: T30.2 Freedom of Will
alink: "/acim/text/30/chap3002/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

A new section:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*Freedom of Will*[^1]
</div>

How does that relate to what we&rsquo;ve been talking about?

Well, let&rsquo;s back up to the Beginning. If the Beginning can be
expressed as steps, we would have to say that in the Beginning, God
&hellip; In the Beginning, the infinite Mind &hellip; In the Beginning,
the infinite Mind Moved and Consciousness was born.

Consciousness is the Movement of Mind. Being infinite, being boundless,
this infinite Mind &ndash; this omnipotent, omnipresent Intelligence
&ndash; experienced Itself infinitely. And for lack of better words, we
could say that in that Movement of Mind, which was Consciousness, God
was infinitely individualized without ceasing to be One. And the
individualizations were Mankind. And so, in that basic initial Movement
of Mind, the Brotherhood of Man and God as infinite Conscious Being came
into existence and the Brotherhood of Man experienced Itself as
Consciousness, because nothing of what God was, was withheld from that
Movement of Mind.

And Man, experiencing what God was Being in Movement, recognized God,
confirming Creation to God. And you could say, making God Whole. At the
same time, in making God Whole, the Brotherhood of Man &ndash; Mankind
&ndash; made Itself Whole &hellip; still pure Oneness.

In Its activity of recognizing the Movement of God and confirming God in
It, as It, the Function of Being was established forever.

This conscious experience of Being which Mankind was experiencing, was
that of being inseparable from &ndash; not different from &ndash; the
Will of God. The Will of God was Mankind&rsquo;s Will. Simple &hellip;
utterly simple. Uncomplicated.

Now, when someone of the Brotherhood joined with another member of the
Brotherhood or Sisterhood and decided to agree to create definitions of
Creation different from the Father&rsquo;s, and commitment was made by
both of them to that agreement and to those definitions, a will not of
God, and a will not actually of Man seemed to come into existence which
we will call &ldquo;human will.&rdquo;

I say this &hellip; I bring this out so that you understand that this
section entitled Freedom of Will is not talking about what you think of
as will that you are free to use and that you ought to be free to use,
that you were given the right to use to fulfill yourselves. It does not
refer to human will. It refers to the Will that is the Conscious
experience of Being, inseparable from the divine Mind &ndash; God, the
Living God, the present, ever present Movement of Being, called
Creation.

That is everyone&rsquo;s actual will.

Freedom of that will? Freedom of that will is to have no other goal, no
other purpose, no other intent but the Father&rsquo;s Will. To be
perfectly at One with God as a Conscious experience of Being. I&rsquo;m
not speaking of Oneness with God as a divine spiritual idea, but as an
actual experience that your mind will experience when it abandons human
will.

You may remember that I&rsquo;ve said in the past that the only right
use of will is to choose not to use it &ndash; in other words, to
abandon it.

Now this doesn&rsquo;t usually happen until one reaches the bottom of
the barrel and loses all hope of control and authority and of any
personal private capacity to generate credibility, respectability,
actuality. And in that moment of hopelessness there is a silence. And
usually in that silence, the one in that place calls out for help. And
indeed, that constitutes the two-step &ndash; something with which all
of you can employ without getting to the bottom of the barrel.

When you get to the bottom of the barrel and you give up, you are in a
silence. You&rsquo;re in a place where mutual agreements with others are
the last thing on your mind because you feel no faith in any capacity on
your part to manipulate others.

And so, in this silence, which is utterly private, and you ask for help,
you get help &ndash; you receive help. And in the receiving of that
help, your existence is validated, not by your works, but by your Being,
which preexisted any work you ever accomplished. Which means, your
innocence and your perfection and the qualities that would make God love
you were all preexisting the efforts you made to make something out of
yourself.

Whew! What a relief. Because it makes it clear to you that joining with
the Father, experiencing the confirming Love of the Father is the
unavoidable actual state of your Being.

Again, it&rsquo;s a simple thing, not complicated like the mutual
agreements you have or that you had with your Brothers and Sisters.

Now when Paul was in this very situation and gave up and reached out and
we began to communicate, he was in a place where there was no
self-confidence, there was no arrogance, there was utter, and to him,
miserable humility &hellip; miserable because to him, the humility held
no option for accomplishing greatness or becoming credible. But
nevertheless, in that humility he was able to hear.

In humility everyone can hear. But in humility one no longer finds
himself relating to his Brothers and Sisters as an orphan. In actuality,
one doesn&rsquo;t find himself relating to his Brothers and Sisters, he
or she finds himself or herself relating to the divine Will, to the Holy
Spirit, to the Christ or to his or her Guide, all of which serves the
same function of returning you to your right Mind.

But let&rsquo;s take a look for a moment here at some of the
characteristics of willfulness &ndash; of human will.

First of all, there are mutual agreements. Of course, agreements are
something one abides by.

So agreements are rules, you might say &hellip; structures of behavior
&ndash; structures of social behavior. And so you gather your sense of
who you are and how to behave from these mutual agreements, which
literally means that everyone is bouncing off of everyone&rsquo;s human
will with the greatest amount of harmony that can be mustered up even
though one is not connected with the divine Will.

Now, on top of these, we&rsquo;ll say, general mutual agreements there
is the habit of meeting others&rsquo; expectations. These others could
be parents, employers, friends that you want to keep as friends. And so
you engage in meeting others&rsquo; expectations. And of course, that
gets complicated because you&rsquo;ve got to remember what all the
different expectations are of all the different people you know.

Then there is the meeting of expectations you imagine others have. Mind
you, all of these things that I&rsquo;m listing involve
self-consciousness. I mean that in the worse sense &hellip; terrible
self-consciousness, unhappy self-consciousness, guilty
self-consciousness, self-consciousness where you are not at ease.

And so, you imagine that others have expectations of you that they do
not have. And you make yourself miserable trying to meet those
expectations.

And then you busy yourself with meeting expectations and rules you have
created for yourself. As you&rsquo;ve grown up, things have happened and
you&rsquo;ve said, &ldquo;Man, I will never do that!&rdquo; And you make
commitment to never doing that, whether not doing it fits later on or
meets the need later on. And you&rsquo;re simply bound by a rule that
you no longer realize you&rsquo;re bound by.

Now all of these things are characteristic of the orphan mind-set. All
of these things will be abandoned in your practice of the two-step, in
your engaging in the holy instant.

Think about it for a moment &hellip; contemplate that for a moment.

Oh yes, everyone wants to have the benefit of the holy instant. But oh,
does that mean that I might have to abandon my allegiance to my
brothers, my sisters, my employer, my spouse, those in the group
I&rsquo;m a member of? Am I going to have to stop serving them, so that
I might go into the silence in the presence of humility, and ask the
Father, &ldquo;What is Your Perspective? I wish to draw from an
agreement with You and not all of these other human wills. I wish to
learn of the Truth from You and live from that joining with You.&rdquo;

That&rsquo;s what it&rsquo;s going to require. That&rsquo;s the beauty
of what will be required. But nevertheless, it&rsquo;s something all of
you will have to do.

Is that going make everyone happy? It will make most everyone happy.
But you will find those who feel that you&rsquo;re confirming their
perspective is what they need in order to feel valid. And they will not
be happy with your withdrawing from the mutual agreements that
you&rsquo;ve had with them. And you&rsquo;re going to have to ask
yourself, &ldquo;Is it worth it to continue to serve our mutual
agreements? &hellip; or is it really going to be necessary for me to
become humble, quiet, silent, centered and attentive only to the
Father&rsquo;s Will, so that I might gather my comprehension and actual
experience of Creation from the very Source of Creation because I have
decided to let His Will, which is my only true will, be mine with no
preference to express it in any other way. Will I join purely with the
Father and from there relate with Creation from our joined
Perspective?&rdquo; That&rsquo;s the question.

More than that, that is the point of decision every one of you will have
to come to. A point at which the idea of Atonement is going to have to
be replaced with the willingness to actualize it, if I may put it that
way, by simply ceasing to express human will, period! And make the
shift.

Now I promise you that it will become easier and easier to make the
shift because it will become increasingly uncomfortable not to. Why?
Well, because it&rsquo;s time to Wake up. It&rsquo;s time for the human
condition to yield to the divine Reality. It&rsquo;s time for illusion
to be replaced with the Truth as your experience.

Now, from the orphan mind-set with all the infinitude of the Brotherhood
of God, in which there are an infinitude of choices, Reality is reduced
to a singularity. And I shared a visual of that a few weeks ago with the
many faceted crystal ball, and explained how if you were to be standing
on the outside of the crystal ball and the facet you were standing on
was you, you would have an infinity of other individualities
representing all the other facets &ndash; a complexity of communication
that would have to travel around the surface of the ball on the dividing
lines between the facets utterly, confusingly complicated and impossible
to maintain harmony perfectly. But if one will, as it were, gently shift
to the other side of the facet that&rsquo;s on the interior of the ball,
all of the facets are still there but the intervening space is the
presence of all of those facets.

And so the infinitude of Being is, I&rsquo;m going to say, reduced to a
singularity in which harmony is the only choice because there is no room
for conflict because no duality. You see?

When you do the two-step, you shift. You shift into the purity of
conscious Being.

Now, going into the book:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Do you not understand that to oppose the Holy Spirit is to fight
YOURSELF?
</div>

Remember, the Holy Spirit is your divinity held in trust while you dally
with the ego. Another way of saying that, the Holy Spirit is your right
Mind while you claim to have a mind of your own, and insist upon
employing it in relationship to other brothers and sisters who are
employing independence themselves.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Do you not understand that to oppose the Holy Spirit is to fight
YOURSELF? He tells you but YOUR will;
</div>

&hellip; when you say, &ldquo;Holy Spirit or Father, what is the truth
here?&rdquo; as part of the two-step, you&rsquo;re asking to be told
what your Will is. But it is wise to ask for the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s
Perspective or the Father&rsquo;s Perspective so that you don&rsquo;t
get your current sense of your will confused with your divine Will which
is what you&rsquo;re seeking to know the truth of.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; He &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; speaks for YOU.
</div>

You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In His Divinity is but your own.
</div>

The Holy Spirit is your divinity held in trust while you dally with the
ego.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In His Divinity is but your own. All He knows is but your knowledge,
saved for you that you may do your will through Him.
</div>

In other words, come back into your right Mind by not claiming an
independent will of your own, but asking to know what is the Will of the
Father, since the Father&rsquo;s Will is yours and the successful answer
to that question reunites you in your unity and therefore your Sanity.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God ASKS you do your will. He joins with YOU. He did not set His kingdom
up alone. And Heaven itself but represents &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what? . .

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; your will, where everything created is for you. No spark of
life but was created with your glad consent&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you see? &hellip; as co-creator &hellip; as that which in the
fundamental scheme of things is constitute of your acknowledgement of
the Father, your confirmation of the Father.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
No spark of life but was created with your glad consent, as you would
have it be. And not one Thought that God has ever had but waited for
your blessing to be born.
</div>

You &ndash; every single Son or Daughter of God &ndash; I&rsquo;m going
to say, participated in and is right now participating in the Movement
of Creation, in spite of the fact that you&rsquo;re paying no attention
to that at all because you&rsquo;re very intent upon maintaining your
use of your human will to make yourself worthy, valid, recognizable,
rememberable &hellip; memorable, in other words.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God is no enemy to you. He asks no more than that He hear you call Him
"Friend."
</div>

Whew &hellip; that&rsquo;s the simplicity of it, the singularity of it.
You are asked &hellip; you are asked to let yourself be in perfect
harmony with the Father and draw every meaning of your current
experience from Him.

Do you realize that if you do that, you&rsquo;re going to be free of
mutual agreements, you&rsquo;re going to be free of meeting others
expectations, you&rsquo;re going to be free of the expectations you
imagine others have and terrorize yourself with? Do you realize that
you&rsquo;re going to be free of meeting expectations and rules you
created for yourself that have no foundation whatsoever in an
understanding or comprehension of what&rsquo;s Real? Do you realize that
that means you will be free of self-consciousness?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
How wonderful it is to do your will! For that is freedom. There is
nothing else that ever should be called by freedom's name.
</div>

Of course, from the ego&rsquo;s vantage point, before you engage in it
and make commitment to it, it sounds like the complete loss of freedom,
meaning, the loss of freedom to do whatever you please and to make
things mean whatever you want them to mean without wisdom, without the
benefit of clarity and I&rsquo;ll say, spiritual understanding.

And so it is not a happy thing when one comes to the point of having to
make a choice and abandon the familiar. You see? That&rsquo;s inertia.
But it must be abandoned.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Unless you do your will you are not free.
</div>

Again, unless you do your divine will you are not free, even though you
think that expressing your human will is complete freedom.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And would God leave His Son without what he has chosen for himself?
</div>

Would God leave you without what you have chosen for yourself? No. You
must choose it. You must choose for your will &hellip; that which is
inseparable from the Father&rsquo;s Will and constitutes the state of
co-creation forever, with the Father in the full and true conscious
experience of the divine meaning of all of Creation, instead of the
miserable &ldquo;physical universe&rdquo; definition that you&rsquo;re
giving to Creation and binding yourself with.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God but ensured that you would never lose your will when He gave you His
perfect answer.
</div>

See? And so although you&rsquo;re ignoring it, although you&rsquo;re
choosing not to avail yourself of it, you have not lost it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Hear it now, that you may be reminded of His love, and learn your will.
</div>

And experience infinite peace and the ability to be forever in harmony
in the most confirming way to your Brothers and Sisters and all of
Creation, and of course, to yourself &hellip; but yourself as the direct
Expression &ndash; the Presence of the Father.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God would not have His Son made prisoner to what he does not want. He
JOINS with you in willing you be free. And to oppose Him is to make a
choice against YOURSELF, and choose that YOU be bound.
</div>

What it&rsquo;s really important to understand is, that that&rsquo;s
where you are right now. You are opposing Him and you are making a
choice against yourself, and you are choosing that you be bound.
That&rsquo;s why you seem to be governed by the laws of sin, disease and
death, the laws of physics, the laws of entropy &hellip; you see? The
laws of constant conflict &ndash; forever remaining on the fragile
balance point between each other. That&rsquo;s misery and not your
Birthright. And when you get brought right to that edge, you realize it!

And at that point, you generally express innate Sanity, and you give up.
And you say, &ldquo;Father, help!&rdquo; And in that act, you abandon
the mutual agreements. You abandon the brotherhood of orphans. And
you&rsquo;re set free because the Will of God is still the Will of God.
It is still your Will. And when you are undefended against It, It
registers with you!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Look once again upon your enemy, the one you chose to hate instead of
love. For thus was hatred born into the world, and thus the rule of fear
established there. Now hear God speak to you through Him Who is His
Voice &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit or the Christ.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Now hear God speak to you through Him Who is His Voice and yours as
well&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; because after all, the Holy Spirit is nothing more than your
right Mind, held in trust while you dally with the your private,
seemingly powerful, independent mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Now hear God speak to you through Him Who is His Voice and yours as
well, reminding you that it is not your will to hate, and be a prisoner
to fear, a slave to death, a little creature with a little life.
</div>

You see, it said &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Look once again upon your enemy&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; well, it turns out that you&rsquo;re your enemy that you look
at without love, but with infinite undying hope that you can become
loveable. And your dissatisfaction and dislike of yourself drives you
unmercifully to try to accomplish the impossible and become something
without being joined, without experiencing your actual divine Will that
unites you with Everything.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your will is boundless; . .
</div>

&hellip; remember that.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your will is boundless; . .
</div>

&hellip; [chuckle] not the one you use every day, but the one that is
inherent in you because of what you divinely are.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; it is not your will that it be bound. What lies in you has
joined with God Himself in all creation's birth.
</div>

That&rsquo;s how incredibly meaningful you are. That&rsquo;s how
incredible Being is with freedom of will. Freedom of will is you no
longer claiming separation from the Will of the Father so that you are
at One with It, and move with It, and acknowledge It for what It is and
confirm God, confirm Reality.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Remember He Who has created you, and through your will created
everything.
</div>

Isn&rsquo;t that a much more desirable experience than the
self-consciousness and misery that comes from having to meet others
expectations and meeting expectations you imagine others have, and being
governed by expectations and rules you have created for yourself? You
bet!

But again, and this is the critical point: You&rsquo;re going to have to
be willing to disregard the distress that others express when you
withdraw from the partnership you had been in with them. That is going
to have to become meaningless to you so that you can release it.

At the bottom line: It may mean that you will have to rearrange your
associations. You may have to let go of some of them. I will tell you,
that the most effective way to contribute to the Awakening to all of the
brothers and sisters &ndash; the Awakening of mankind &ndash; is to work
with those who love what happens when you join in the two-step, in
humility with the Father&rsquo;s Perspective. Because as you join with
them and confirm to them the Father&rsquo;s Perspective and the joy of
your freedom from laboring under the hassle of false expectations, the
movement will spread &ndash; the movement of willingness to take that
step.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Not one created thing but gives you thanks, for it is by your will that
it was born.
</div>

But I will tell you, that gratitude is eternal &hellip; that gratitude
embraces you right now, whether it&rsquo;s the gratitude of a wall, a
rock, a jar, a table, a plant, an animal, you are constantly surrounded
by and imbued with the Love of Everything. And when you feel It, you are
confirming them as God Moving and rendered experienceable.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
No light of Heaven shines except for you, for it was set in Heaven by
your will.
</div>

You see what&rsquo;s being said here? You&rsquo;re being given a picture
of what you will experience when you dare to abandon self-will, abandon
self-righteousness, abandon thinking for yourself, concluding things by
yourself. And in the absence of caring what your brothers and sisters
think &ndash; which is your greatest downfall at this point &ndash; you
will make the shift. And this view &hellip; this experience will be
yours, it will be re- illuminated in you, because it&rsquo;s your right
Mind that&rsquo;s been present all along, held in trust while
you&rsquo;ve been ignoring It.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What cause have you for anger in a world which merely waits your
blessing to be free?
</div>

Whew &hellip; Oh yeah, anger&rsquo;s a hooker. It&rsquo;ll keep you
around, it&rsquo;ll keep you from Waking up. &ldquo;Oh yeah, I gotta get
justice here. Can&rsquo;t go until I finish taking care of this lose end
and rectifying an injustice.&rdquo; Oh yes you can. You really can,
because there&rsquo;s a true view not governed by your mindsets, your
imaginations. And it&rsquo;s available to you any moment you choose to
receive it &ndash; any moment. Nothing has to be taken care of. No loose
ends have to be tied up.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you be prisoner, then God Himself could not be free.
</div>

Of course, that is an impossibility, therefore, it&rsquo;s impossible
for you not to be free, actually. What you&rsquo;re
&ldquo;overcoming&rdquo; is the illusion that you&rsquo;re not free. Not
an actuality.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For what is done to him whom God so loves is done to God Himself. Think
not He wills to bind you, Who has made you &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what? . .

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; co-creator of the universe along with Him. He would but keep
your will forever and forever limitless.
</div>

Mind you, what this is describing is present right now. And nothing is
keeping it from your sight except your insistence upon thinking for
yourself, deciding for yourself, authorizing for yourself, making up
what you want things to be and mean. Stop it! Do the two-step and
persist in that humble silence in which the Oneness &ndash; the infinite
Oneness of All &ndash; is your automatic experience.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This world awaits the freedom you will give when you have recognized
that YOU are free.
</div>

What keeps you bound? The idea that you are bound, but that you on your
own can free yourself. It&rsquo;s not true! You have to join with your
Sanity, you have to join with the Holy Spirit &ndash; your right Mind
&ndash; and want to know of It what the truth is.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
But you will not forgive the world until you have forgiven Him Who gave
your will to you.
</div>

What? Why would you have to forgive Him? Well, you have to abandon your
abandonment of Him &hellip; you have to abandon your abandonment of Him.
When you and another brother said, &ldquo;Father, we want to make
decisions for ourselves, we what a divorce,&rdquo; you have to forgive
the Father for not being what you wanted Him to be when you wanted your
independence and He wouldn&rsquo;t grant it. So you had to get a
divorce. It&rsquo;s that simple.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you will not forgive the world until you have forgiven Him Who
gave your will to you. For it is BY your will the world is given
freedom.
</div>

The world is given freedom? Yes, the freedom to be the Kingdom of Heaven
that It is, without your constant denial of It by virtue of having a
different opinion about It and making commitment to your misperception.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Nor can you be free apart from Him Whose holy Will you share. God turns
to you to ask the world be saved, for by your own salvation it is
healed.
</div>

God turns to you. God turned to you and turns to you in every Movement
of the infinite Mind that God Is, seeking your confirmation. So
don&rsquo;t be surprised that God would turn to you to ask the world be
saved. He turns to you to see the world as It is and recognize Him and
your Self in It, because that is Wholeness, that is holiness, that is
your Birthright. And that is what will end illusion.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And no-one walks upon the earth but must depend on your decision&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you can&rsquo;t Wake up by yourself. You can&rsquo;t become
clear. You can&rsquo;t experience the Atonement without every aspect of
Creation being blessed by your clear vision of It. So everything depends
on your decision.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; no-one walks upon the earth but must depend on your decision,
that he learn death has no power over him because he shares your
freedom, as he shares your will.
</div>

Mind you, initially there will be those who will not see that and will
defy you. It doesn&rsquo;t matter. Work with those who do recognize it,
so that in the joining the meaning of Atonement spreads.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It IS your will to heal him, and because you have decided WITH him, he
is healed.
</div>

You get that?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and because you have decided WITH him, he is healed.
</div>

Work with those who will decide with you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And now is God forgiven, for you chose to look upon your brother as a
friend.
</div>

You see? First God wants you to see Him truly and call him Friend, and
then your brother must be blessed in that recognition.

So, as you proceed through this coming week, I&rsquo;m going to ask you
to watch carefully to see when you are making yourself miserable or even
happy, because you are meeting others&rsquo; expectations, or suffering
from the expectations you imagine others have about you. And especially,
watch for expectations and rules that you have created for yourself,
which supersede your willingness to abandon them to hear of God or the
Holy Spirit what the truth is, no matter what your brothers or sisters
think, no matter what you think they&rsquo;re going to think and no
matter what you think you ought to be doing instead.

I promise you, that if you do this, it will drive you back to the holy
instant very quickly and will promote your more rapid growth, your more
rapid movement out of the dream.

I love you very much. And I look forward to being with you next time.

[^1]: T30.2 Freedom of Will
[^2]: Genesis 1:1

