---
title: Oct 15, 2013
ref: Discussion
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

Well you would think after our talk last week, that the week that
followed should have been &hellip; well, let&rsquo;s just say better
than the weeks before. But I&rsquo;m going to ask how many of you have
experienced increased concern, discouragement, vulnerability?

You know, no matter where you are on the globe there are events
occurring which seem not to be generated by love but rather by
selfishness and greed and materialism &ndash; let&rsquo;s just put it
that way. And all of it seems to be for the benefit of a few, at the
expense of the many of which most all of you are members of. And as a
result, you end up being taken advantage of and you feel it! And you
know it&rsquo;s not right! But you&rsquo;re not in charge, so what can
you do about it? And so you are used for the benefit of others against
your will. And you know what? That&rsquo;s called, &ldquo;being a
hostage.&rdquo;

Now, we&rsquo;re going to talk about the nature of being a hostage and
most of it ties in with what we discussed last time.

On a very large scale, I would wager to say that most of you felt
hopeful, anticipatory, looking forward to the turn of the century
&ndash; the coming of the new millennium. It bode of newness, goodness,
perhaps even the Second Coming, even though the flip-side of that was
that it would be the beginning of Armageddon. And so there were two
conflicting concepts being applied to the new century.

Now, I did not appear on January 1st, 2000. And so one would think the
Second Coming and all that it implied wasn&rsquo;t going to happen, and
the reason for the anticipation and the positive outlook had no further
justification.

Now not everyone is governed by this belief system. But most everyone on
the globe is aware of the idea of the Second Coming, whether it&rsquo;s
a part of their religious training or not. And so even if you
didn&rsquo;t put much stock in it like others at the turn of the
century, you found a shift occurred in which, I&rsquo;m going to say,
materialism and greed and selfishness and self-centeredness sort of took
the front seat.

It&rsquo;s not that it was ever not there, but it just wasn&rsquo;t
hiding itself well anymore. And as a result, it stood out where it could
be observed and recognized. And it has become increasingly recognizable
between the turn of the century and now. And in practically all ways,
conditions of life around your globe have become difficult, tension
producing, poverty inducing, and even for those who have been diligent
seekers of truth &ndash; diligent students &ndash; there has been
discouragement that has grown and the idea that what we&rsquo;re
observing is part of Armageddon (the last days) is not being challenged
as significantly.

You know, things aren&rsquo;t just difficult &hellip; they are, for lack
of better words, evil. And I mean that in the sense that they reflect
conscious calculated attempts to take advantage and to harm or to leave
depleted anyone who gets in the way. And of course, in terms of
selfishness, everything else gets in the way of the one who is selfish.

And so everyone else is fair game to be taken advantage of on purpose.
That is cruel. That is evil. That meets the definition of sin.

Now, who likes being a hostage? Nobody. The Jews in the concentration
camps found themselves to be in a situation where they were taken
advantage of, and cruelty was consciously expressed and acted out. Now,
none of you are in that extreme position. But I will tell you, that the
Answer is the same.

Now the Course speaks of being hostage to the ego or host to God. And of
course the answer to being hostage to the ego is to find a way to become
the host to God. But in order to do that, you&rsquo;ve got to find out
what it is that attracts you to the state of being a hostage, and causes
you to commit yourself to it obsessively without challenging it. And
here&rsquo;s the reason:

The behavior of a hostage is based in fear. And of course the response
to that is self-protection. Fear is an emotion. And the emotion of fear
gathers to it the emotions of jealousy and hate. And emotions are, for
lack of better words, a rich texture of &hellip; well again, I&rsquo;m
going to have to use the word, evil &hellip; it&rsquo;s a rich texture
of elements that are always debilitating and destructive to the one
employing them. They are designed to function that way. And they are
designed to hook you and addict you to attending to them.

Emotions are different from Love. And you have to be willing to
recognize that they are destructive and only destructive before you can
find yourself able to abandon the hit of the emotions, so that you can
shift your attention to the Father and become host to the Father. You
see?

Love is not addictive. Love is not passionate like emotions are. Love
doesn&rsquo;t energize you to action &ndash; personal action,
self-satisfying action, self-increasing actions. Love is gentle. Love is
a Gift. Love is attention given, so that that which is the object of
Love receives something. You see? There&rsquo;s an entire difference.
And what makes it difficult to shift, even if you intellectually know
that there&rsquo;s a desirable thing called &ldquo;shifting&rdquo; from
being the hostage to the ego to the host for God, the difficulty lies in
the fact that shifting to the Act of Love is not dynamic and therefore,
does not seem capable of protecting you, which is the mindset the
hostage is in.

Now, we&rsquo;ve discussed in the last few weeks the fact &ndash; in
fact for the last few years &ndash; that there are only two vantage
points: The Father&rsquo;s Perspective and the ego&rsquo;s perspective.
There are only two voices: The Voice for Truth and the voice for fear.
The solution is always simple. It&rsquo;s a choice between two things
&ndash; one of which isn&rsquo;t even Real.

Again, the difficulty lies in the fact that shifting from
self-protection &ndash; self-centered self-protection &ndash; to an
outgoing embrace of love feels like the abandonment of armor of
protection and therefore, it doesn&rsquo;t feel intelligent.

You have to come to the point of recognizing that your ability to
understand the difference between selfish self-protection and inclusive
extension of love &ndash; of attentive caring &ndash; is the Answer. And
then act on the basis of that understanding, not on the basis of what
you&rsquo;re feeling.

This is very important.

Now, threat seems to be all around everyone, everywhere. Threat of the
loss of this, the loss of that, the loss of your peace, the loss of your
life, the loss of your comfortable living, and it would seem that those
who are in charge could care less. And yet you know that that is wrong.

Now, how do you look at your world, no matter where you are in it and
not be governed by what you see? Well, by remembering that you have
available to you two vantage points, and the one that is discouraging
you, it is not the Father&rsquo;s Will for you to have. It&rsquo;s not
your Birthright. It&rsquo;s not your inheritance and therefore
it&rsquo;s not the actuality of You at all.

The Course begins by saying, &ldquo;Nothing real can be threatened and
nothing unreal exists.&rdquo; Well, when you feel threatened, it does
feel to you as though something exists that can be threatened, and to
say that that doesn&rsquo;t exist doesn&rsquo;t make sense. And yet
it&rsquo;s the only way out of the illusion.

Now, when you find yourself feeling like a hostage, even when you can
point at the one who is holding you hostage, or the situation or the
political system that is holding you hostage, you must realize that
you&rsquo;ve been distracted to something &ldquo;out there&rdquo; being
the cause of your incarceration &ndash; of your being jailed and held
until some benefit can be obtained before you can be released.

The one thing that&rsquo;s been forgotten is, that you&rsquo;re not
paying attention to the role or the part you&rsquo;re playing, because
anyone who&rsquo;s holding you hostage is one you&rsquo;ve given
permission to hold you hostage. You&rsquo;ve said that their attack on
you, their threats against you, their intent to prove you invalid and to
cause you harm has a chance of working, when what they&rsquo;re saying
are lies.

Why &hellip; why are you doing that? It doesn&rsquo;t matter what
they&rsquo;re doing. Why are you agreeing with them? Why are you
telling yourself that you must be afraid? Well, I&rsquo;ll tell you,
you&rsquo;re listening to your ego, you&rsquo;re being host to your ego,
which is making you hostage to it and to your fear &hellip; and
you&rsquo;re forgetting to be host to God.

It&rsquo;s really that simple &hellip; it really is that simple.

This does not mean that those who are consciously trying to take
advantage of you do not need to be corrected, or that all you need to do
is to emancipate yourself from the dance you played into with them,
giving them power they didn&rsquo;t have and blinding yourself to the
capacity you have [if you choose to be host to God] to find the steps
that undo the hostage situation and cause the attempts to hold you
hostage to cease. You need the clarity that comes from outside the dance
you&rsquo;ve played with those who are holding you hostage. You need to
step outside the box.

How many of you have had an experience of &hellip; oh, let&rsquo;s say,
ongoing distress in your family? And the energy and atmosphere in your
home for days or weeks or perhaps months has been strained and stressed
and exhausting? And you&rsquo;ll get up, and you&rsquo;ll look out the
window, and you&rsquo;ll see your neighbors chatting with each other, or
planting some new flowers in their flowerbed, completely unaware of the
serious distress that you&rsquo;re experiencing &hellip; and appearing
to be insensitive and causing you further distress.

And yet, think about it, if you wanted to take steps to correct the
situation you&rsquo;re in, you might choose to call a physician, or a
psychologist, or a physiatrist &hellip; and you would certainly want to
speak to one who didn&rsquo;t agree with you. You would want to speak
with someone who was not sensitive to your problem, so sensitive and
empathetic that it disturbed them enough that they couldn&rsquo;t help
you. No, you want someone who is not fooled by what&rsquo;s fooling
you, who can clearly express the steps out of the dance you&rsquo;re
playing. You see?

Now, a few weeks ago we discussed the starting point: that the starting
point is that God &hellip; not the hostage taker &hellip; the starting
point is not the hostage taker, it isn&rsquo;t his motives, it
isn&rsquo;t his evil acts, no &hellip; the starting point is that
God&mdash;Spirit, is All-in-all and there is no other might nor Mind.

In other words, the starting point is like the neighbor who&rsquo;s
planting flowers, oblivious to your need, not caring about it, but
perhaps having the perspective it takes to help you out of the mess.

The Father is the starting point. And the Father is the only might and
Mind. And so, when you find yourself feeling overwhelmed by the negative
events that are going on and you feel like screaming out, and you feel
like taking hold of the reins and changing the situation, and talking up
the bad points and making sure everyone knows what&rsquo;s wrong,
without seeking the answer, you know that you&rsquo;ve not taken the
essential step of making yourself the host for God. That&rsquo;s the
problem!

Making yourself the host for God makes the Father&rsquo;s Perspective
available to you to bring into play, to be the expression of in the
world that changes the world through love, not more hate, not just
another form of manipulative ego or evil. You see?

At some point in the past I used the illustration of the coliseums in
Rome, where the gladiators came out and fought the lions. Well, some big
deal to be a gladiator huh? Great sounding title! But it meant that you
were a criminal, or someone judged to have been a criminal, who is held
in cells beneath the coliseum until the next day when the lions would be
released and they would be out in the center of the coliseum. And if
they were fortunate enough to be one who killed the lion instead of
being killed they could keep their gladiator title. But of course, there
weren&rsquo;t many gladiators.

Now, what you need to remember is that outside the coliseum, two or
three blocks away, people where eating in restaurants and conducting
business. They didn&rsquo;t care what was going on in the coliseum.
Those in the coliseum &ndash; not the observers, but the ones being
observed &ndash; had complex social structures. They had status amongst
themselves and they worked their handlers to move themselves into better
positions and so on. And it was a life-style.

They did a dance with their captors, not realizing that the answer was
not to constantly be the winner, but to walk out of the coliseum and go
down a couple of blocks where they could have dinner and enjoy the
company of others, giving not a single thought to the social and
political structure of what went on inside the coliseum. They could go
out where nobody cared what went on in the coliseum, where nobody cared
what they went through and what their social behaviors involved and
their fears. You see?

The answer to being a hostage &ndash; and you could even be a hostage,
you think, to your body &ndash; the answer to being a hostage is to
abandon the hostage mentality, to abandon the fear that makes a hostage
a really good hostage, and as unreasonable as it seems at the moment,
shifting the attitude and becoming a host to God. It&rsquo;s the only
way out! It is simple!

Now, I want you to remember that ideas generate fear, but emotions are
the engine. So when you find the rich texture of emotions that cause you
to remain committed to the unintelligent acts of hostagehood, you must
make a switch. You must engage in the two-step, the holy instant. You
must abandon the richness of the texture of the engine of emotions and
be willing to shift into the gentle, non-coercive but infinitely
blessing action of Love, by asking of the Father, &ldquo;Tell me the
truth about everything. I want to gather my information from You.&rdquo;

That&rsquo;s how you become host to God. And that&rsquo;s how the Father
comes back into His Wholeness &hellip; when His prodigal Son or Daughter
returns to Him, acknowledges Him, and acknowledges His or Her divinity
and unity is restored.

There is much to be corrected in the world. What part do you play in it?
You play your part by not condemning and convicting the ones who are
misleading, selfish, cruel, but rather by giving expression to the way
things divinely work, to what the truth is, not as an argument against,
but as an amplified sharing of what really means something &hellip; a
sharing of the good news, where the good news isn&rsquo;t used as a
battering ram to change the misguided ones who do indeed need to learn.

Value the truth that is revealed to you when you engage in the holy
instant and join with the Father &hellip; becoming host to God.

It&rsquo;s important to understand that the Father never intended for
you to be estranged from Him. And therefore, His love for you and His
wish for you to come Home stands at this very moment unchanged. And so
there is a promise present in the Father&rsquo;s intent to be there for
you the moment you begin to shift your attention to Him with the intent
of becoming host to Him. And it&rsquo;s not something you have to
accomplish all by yourself.

There is nothing hopeless going on. There&rsquo;s infinite opportunity
for truth to be more clearly seen, and there&rsquo;s infinite
opportunity for each one of you to find ways to express the truth that
are so attractive that they can&rsquo;t easily be denied by those who
have forgotten.

This is very important. It&rsquo;s important not to overlook the
simplicity. It&rsquo;s important not to forget what the starting point
is. And it&rsquo;s important for every single one of you to engage in
this every day. Because every day the need for true real clarity that
blesses all mankind becomes more needed.

I love you all. And I invite you to give your attention to the Father so
that you might love each other more consistently and more broadly, more
inclusively. That will change the world! No one is stuck!

Okay.

