---
title: Oct 20, 2013
ref: Discussion
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

Every year Time Magazine publishes an article entitled, &ldquo;Man of
the Year&rdquo; or &ldquo;Person of the Year&rdquo; or &ldquo;Woman of
the Year.&rdquo; And emergencies that occur that are handled very well
by an individual, they may have a &ldquo;Man of the Moment.&rdquo;

And in that vein, I&rsquo;m going to suggest that each of you ask
yourself, &ldquo;Are you a man of the moment?&rdquo; Is the you that you
present to the world, the &ldquo;you of the moment&rdquo; or &ldquo;the
eternal You?&rdquo;

Are you the &ldquo;you of the moment&rdquo; or the &ldquo;Eternal
You?&rdquo;

Where are your feet planted? Where are you being from? If you&rsquo;re
the man, the person or the woman of the moment, your measuring stick is
the moment you&rsquo;re in and the events that are happening in the
moment you&rsquo;re in. Or it&rsquo;s the you that you have presented
that everybody expects you to be &hellip; or it&rsquo;s the you that you
want to project and have everyone believe that you are, and all of it,
without being joined, all of it without experiencing your connection
with your Source &ndash; with your essential Being.

Same old subject, but it&rsquo;s one we need to continue to look at so
as to make it easier and more realistically desirable to shift where you
have your feet planted.

The you of the moment is the You of the Now. Indeed, we&rsquo;ve talked
about being in the Now. But you know what? It&rsquo;s not a matter of
being in the intersection of &ldquo;Now&rdquo; with &ldquo;Here.&rdquo;
Here is a place on a timeline as you are used to looking at it. Now is a
place on a timeline as you are used to looking at it &ndash; a place
between the past and the future.

But you know what? The you who is the eternal You is Being in the Here
and the Now that is truly identified as your attention &ndash; your
consciousness. The Here and the Now is the pure awareness that you are
before you have a single thought, the You that is conscious of Creation
before you have a single thought about Creation, or before you decide to
come up with a personal definition of your own about Creation. The Here
and the Now is the pure Awareness that you always Are, that you always
have been.

And when you plant your feet there, you are in effect practicing the
two-step, abandoning the thinking that conceptualizes and seems to give
meaning or definition to the pure experience of Being &ndash; the
infinite pure experience of Being that is called, &ldquo;Creation
Moving.&rdquo;

That&rsquo;s what you Are &ndash; that&rsquo;s what the eternal You is.
And that&rsquo;s where, through the practice of the two-step of the holy
instant, you plant your feet and make the shift from the &ldquo;you of
the moment.&rdquo;

Now as the &ldquo;you of the moment,&rdquo; every one of you looks for
patterns. Even your pets &ndash; even the animals &ndash; you notice
find patterns and follow the patterns. And when you find patterns, you
attempt to use them as, let&rsquo;s say, identification markers for your
identity, even when you&rsquo;re thrown into a new experience that you
have no identification markers for and you engage in being in this new
arena, we&rsquo;ll say, of your life. You don&rsquo;t let it be forever
new. You look for identification markers.

It&rsquo;s like moving to a new town and trying to remember key
intersections. And you follow certain paths as you go from place to
place and you call that, &ldquo;becoming familiar,&rdquo; when all
you&rsquo;re really doing is establishing a pattern of behavior &hellip;
a pattern of behavior that doesn&rsquo;t need to be your pattern of
behavior because you could pick any of an infinite other number of
patterns and use them to identify your being familiar with the new
territory.

Do you see what I&rsquo;m saying?

The two-step &ndash; the planting your feet in the eternal Now as the
eternal You &ndash; means never allowing the infinite Movement of
Creation to become bound by identification markers that tell you who you
are.

Being consciousness is who you Are &ndash; is What you Are. And
it&rsquo;s when you abandon patterns that you&rsquo;ve used to make
yourself feel secure, that you are free to Wake up and to see Creation
for what it Is and to Know yourself for what you Are and to see it as
unified &ndash; all God &ndash; all God being All including You. And
You, the recognizer of It, the confirmer of It.

How? By not having applied your own definition to It. But having let It
reveal Itself to You, not as a concept or memory to be stored but as a
present ever fresh Movement of Meaning.

Now, Paul has had an experience for the last thirty some years of
speaking with me, and my sharing what I have to say with everyone. And
the happening of it as right now &ndash; the happening of it is not a
matter of fulfilling a concept. Paul has no way to say what he is right
now. And what he&rsquo;s doing isn&rsquo;t what he is, but as pure
conscious Awareness paying attention in the Now of Attention, he finds
himself Being this way and has for all of these years.

He is unable within himself to identify himself as, let&rsquo;s say, a
teacher. Because he hasn&rsquo;t planned any of this, he hasn&rsquo;t
studied for it. What he&rsquo;s doing and what comes out of his mouth
isn&rsquo;t calculated for a particular purpose that he developed. He is
just Being. And yet, others can look and say, &ldquo;Oh well, he&rsquo;s
a teacher of A Course in Miracles, or he is channeling Jesus, the Author
of A Course in Miracles who is teaching what the Course means, or
he&rsquo;s a teacher of God.&rdquo;

And then regardless of that, as he looks at the last twelve years where
every week there has been an ACIM Study Group he could see a pattern
there and begin to feel that every gathering, every meeting is going to
follow that pattern because it is an ACIM Study Group. And yet,
I&rsquo;ve been throwing him for a curve for a number of months now and
have jumped around in the book and have even, as tonight, not read from
the book at all, discussing things of great value but not following the
pattern.

And many of you, like Paul, practice linear thinking &hellip; very
orderly linear thinking. And the linear thinking is a means of control
&ndash; a means of establishing security. After all, if Paul
consistently holds A Course In Miracles Study Groups, others can depend
upon the idea that he will continue to do that. And so he will suffer
from their expectation, or he could imagine that they have that
expectation when they don&rsquo;t, and suffer from not living up to
their expectation because of course, it&rsquo;s important to be
consistent because that&rsquo;s what renders identity in form.

Identity? &hellip; wait a minute! Identity is conscious Awareness
&ndash; Attention. Attention that is non-conceptual, which in the
Silence of its capacity to Know, things become Known. And that is the
Movement of Creation. That is what being the eternal You means.

Now, what I am teaching, what I am sharing with everyone and have been
sharing for a number of months now is for Paul&rsquo;s education as
well. Paul has had to learn because of the way his life circumstances
are occurring that he can&rsquo;t be prepared to let me speak. He
can&rsquo;t be prepared for an ACIM Study Group. And he must come up to
the moment we begin to move into that space of the eternal Now and let
me speak, let the unfoldment of our Being unfold spontaneously fresh.
And he&rsquo;s having to learn to do this without fear and without doubt
creeping in to kibosh the unfoldment.

In other words, he&rsquo;s having to trust more so than in the past.
He&rsquo;s having to let go control.

And I&rsquo;m sharing this because it&rsquo;s something everyone needs
to do. It&rsquo;s part and parcel of Waking up. Part and parcel of
Waking up is learning to let go of patterns that you have used to
provide yourself not only with a sense of identity, but with a sense of
security, safety and power &ndash; presence, if you will.

The moment you recognize a pattern, even of a so-called divine activity,
the moment you recognize a pattern like that and then attempt to repeat
the pattern &ndash; keep the pattern going, because that&rsquo;s normal
and because that&rsquo;s what&rsquo;s expected of you, you have lost
your innocence. You&rsquo;ve lost the innocence of your attention. Your
attention has become clouded by preconceptions, by memory and by goals
that have nothing to do with the eternal You. Of course, they have to do
with the you of the moment. But you want to get out of the moment. Paul
wants to get out of the moment. He wants to become free of the bondage
of the structures of the conceptions that he brings into play in the
moment.

If you&rsquo;re so sure what the structures are, then when you enquire
of the Father, &ldquo;what is the truth here,&rdquo; you are going to
expect the answer to conform to the patterns and the identifications
that you&rsquo;re in the middle of, and employing, and valuing. That
blocks the eternal freshness and spontaneity that Being actually is. And
so you&rsquo;re not the eternal You. And that which is characteristic of
the eternal You is invisible to you, because you&rsquo;re the &ldquo;you
of the moment,&rdquo; the &ldquo;you of the circumstances.&rdquo;

Your feet are planted in the wrong place, if you want to Wake up, if you
want the benefit of the holy instant. If you want the benefit of the
holy instant when you say, &ldquo;Father, what is the truth here?&rdquo;
you must mean, &ldquo;Father, separate and apart from my best theories
and conceptions and everything I know, what is the truth here? What is
the truth beyond my best beliefs?&rdquo;

Last week I phrased it a little differently. I said, &ldquo;Father, tell
me the truth about everything!&rdquo; Imagine if you will, a cozy living
room in the winter, with a fire in the fireplace and a father sitting in
a wing-backed chair, with four small children in their pajamas sitting
on the floor around him looking up at him, and he has a book in his
hand, and the book says, &ldquo;Fairy Tales.&rdquo; And the children
say, &ldquo;read to us daddy, read to us!&rdquo; And now let&rsquo;s
change the title of the book to, &ldquo;The Truth About
Everything,&rdquo; with the children eagerly saying, &ldquo;Father, tell
us the truth about everything!&rdquo; You see?

When you practice the holy instant, the point is not to say, &ldquo;What
is the truth here about this awful situation, so I can do something
about the awful situation.&rdquo; It&rsquo;s not like getting spiritual
medication to treat some actual problem. It&rsquo;s a matter of stepping
out of the &ldquo;you of the moment&rdquo; and the moment that
you&rsquo;re seeing yourself in, and shifting your attention to the
eternal You that you Are and gathering information, gathering the
wonderful truth from there, that clears your mind and causes you to stop
misunderstanding, which will be accompanied with what you would call
&ldquo;healing,&rdquo; or the resolution of the problem. But it&rsquo;s
not because you stayed in the world, in the moment and fixed something
up there, by virtue of bringing something from the eternal Now into the
moment of time. You see? That&rsquo;s not what happens.

You plant your feet firmly in your divinity. You plant your feet firmly
in your relationship with the Father or the Holy Spirit and you ask to
know the truth about everything, because you want to Know. You
don&rsquo;t want to be ignorant. And you don&rsquo;t want to make up
answers just so you can feel somewhat secure.

&ldquo;I want to know the truth about everything.&rdquo; No,
you&rsquo;re not too busy taking care of problems to give your attention
there. There aren&rsquo;t other more important human problems and
conditions to be attended to &ndash; more important than wanting to know
what the truth is about everything. &ldquo;Father, speak to me about
anything I need to know.&rdquo;

Do you think your Father would talk about something irrelevant to your
clarification of mind and your healing? No. But don&rsquo;t, in the
asking of the question, provide a structure that the Father&rsquo;s
Answers must fill or satisfy, because you don&rsquo;t know what you need
to know, primarily because you think you&rsquo;re the &ldquo;man of the
moment,&rdquo; the &ldquo;you of the moment.&rdquo; And from there you
can&rsquo;t know what the eternal You Knows. And so, your feet
don&rsquo;t get replanted where your Being is the answer and the
resolution of the problem.

Write it down and put it on a sticky note where you can see it:

&ldquo;Father, tell me the truth about everything!&rdquo;

&hellip; to remind yourself that He Who is your Source Loves you and is
intent upon your being the eternal You and experiencing It and
understanding It and daring to be from There with Him.

I really have only one task, and that is to, in as many ways as
necessary, tell you that you are in the middle of the Kingdom of Heaven,
you are in the middle of the Movement of Creation. You are part of It,
as with all of Creation you are divine. And you&rsquo;re not
experiencing It as It truly is. And that does not mean you&rsquo;re
insane and that you should be concerned. It simply means that
you&rsquo;re experiencing confusion, which can easily be replaced when
you stop accepting all the definitions you&rsquo;re currently using, and
reach out to That which is the Movement that causes all of these things
as they divinely are, not as you&rsquo;re misperceiving them and saying,
&ldquo;Father, tell me the truth about everything! Tell me the truth
about this.&rdquo;

And I must say this, as I said, in as many different ways as possible,
to encourage you to dare to risk the chance that doing that will indeed
constitute the essential steps of your Awakening. Don&rsquo;t be
satisfied with the miserable way things are. And don&rsquo;t assume that
because there has been a pattern to them that they are actual and
substantial.

They&rsquo;re flimsy, totally flimsy. You give the seeming strength to
them by your attention and your belief. But you can do something else.
You have the capacity to say, &ldquo;There must be a different way to
look at this. I wonder what it is? Father, tell me the truth about
everything! I choose not to ignorantly stay stuck in my ignorance.
Father, tell me the truth about everything! I will listen and I will do
my best not to coerce Your Answers into the structures of my current,
local, finite perceptions.&rdquo;

The children say, &ldquo;Father, tell us the truth about
everything!&rdquo; And He looks down at them and says, &ldquo;Okay, but
you&rsquo;re going to have to expect to hear what you&rsquo;re not
expecting to hear.&rdquo;

I love you very much. This is the good news. And I look forward to being
with you next time.

