---
title: Dec 22, 2013
ref: Discussion
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

It is three days before Christmas. And so tonight I have a Christmas
message. And in order to give perspective, we will begin by going back
in time to the time of the Exodus from Egypt, when Moses led the
Israelites out of bondage. And I&rsquo;m bringing this up because the
advent of the Christ appearing on earth was the beginning of the Exodus
from bondage to a false perception of one&rsquo;s self and a false
perception of the Kingdom of Heaven.

After crossing the Red Sea and no longer being pursued by the Egyptians,
there came a point where the people grew restless &ndash; their faith
being tested. And Moses took leave and went up onto a mountain and did
the &ldquo;two-step.&rdquo; He silenced &ldquo;human will&rdquo; within
himself and in so many words said, &ldquo;Father, what is the truth
here? What needs to be known?&rdquo; And he listened. And the product of
the listening came forth as what have been called, &ldquo;The Ten
Commandments,&rdquo; let us say, the understanding of what humanity
means as lived by those who embrace it as an integral part of escaping
the bondage of illusion.

And Moses came back down from the mountain with the tablets that the
Commandments were engraved upon. And when he came back to the people he
discovered that their faithlessness had taken over. And that they had
resorted to idolatry and debauchery and immoral behavior and he believed
what he saw!

He saw fault. He saw immorality. He saw people who didn&rsquo;t deserve
what he had gone up to the mountain to get and brought back, because he
was convinced by what the people were convinced of about themselves. And
he joined them in that faithlessness and threw down the tablets and
broke them so that the Commandments were lost.

Now the question is: Is seeing what is wrong &ndash; identifying it,
labeling it &ndash; is that the answer that corrects the wrong?
Absolutely not! And so there was no way to proceed because the freedom,
the Birthright of man could not be achieved through faithlessness and
doubt and immorality.

And so Moses had to go up to the mountain again. In other words, he had
to stop regarding what he was convinced he saw. He had to abandon the
negative assessment of all of those who were following him into freedom
out of bondage. He had to let go of that and turn his attention
elsewhere. He had to turn his attention to where the truth was available
to experience &ndash; to Know and to be from.

And so he did the two-step again. And this time when he came down from
the mountain, he did not abandon the Vision the Father gave him, and he
proceeded to lead the Israelites into the Promised Land. There is a
simple but profound lesson in this. The correction of illusion does not
occur as a result of making a reality out of it &ndash; pinpointing it,
labeling it, judging it, being offended by it and in self-righteousness
attempting to get rid of it.

That behavior is behavior that arises out of faithlessness, not out of
the result of practicing the two-step. Because practicing the two-step
uncovers what is truly true. It uncovers the Good News. It uncovers that
which is worth making a joyful noise about. Because it does not confirm
what isn&rsquo;t real. You see?

And in the absence of that confirmation and the Vision of a, for lack of
better words, new horizon, the movement into freedom is assured. And
this is the important point. And this is the Message of Christmas. This
is the Gift that the appearance of the Christ brought and gave to the
world. It&rsquo;s important.

It&rsquo;s important not only because the living of It involves the
right use of your mind that heals, it keeps the attention from staying
bound in the orphan mentality &ndash; in the separated tiny,
independent, Sourceless, meaningless experience of being.

Now, I want you to contemplate my life from Christmas day on. And I want
you to notice how much of my time was spent calling out the sinners,
pointing out their sins &hellip; chastising them, correcting them. You
can easily understand that if my attention had been given there, there
would have been no healings. There would have been no transformation,
because none of that would have revealed the divinity of every single
man, woman and child on the planet. And it wouldn&rsquo;t have uncovered
the Kingdom of Heaven that everything actually is, but nobody sees
because they are convinced by their faithlessness, that it&rsquo;s just
a material world and universe. There is no potential for healing or
correction there.

My life did not convey that message. My life, my words, my brotherhood
uncovered the fact that you are my Brothers and Sisters. That we are One
divine family with one Father: God. That we, each one of us &hellip;
every one of us is holy.

Now there&rsquo;s a general belief that God so loved the world that He
gave his only begotten Son to what? To save every sinner on the globe
because everyone on the globe had been born in sin?

That&rsquo;s the wrong emphasis. That was not my purpose. And that is
not what I engaged in. I engaged in providing the Vision which
illuminated faith because it re-awakened in each one the glimmering
memory of his or divinity, of his or her divine worth.

If I had magnified everyone&rsquo;s poor assessment of themselves, it
would have further depressed everyone. It would have exacerbated the
problem, not resolved it.

Now, when Moses came back down from the mountain, the people were still
behaving badly, were still expressing their faithlessness. But this time
he didn&rsquo;t believe it. And in so many words, in his mind, the
declaration was, &ldquo;tain&rsquo;t so! tisn&rsquo;t so! This is not
the truth! I will not be swayed by what isn&rsquo;t true, by what
isn&rsquo;t so.&rdquo; And he wasn&rsquo;t.

And the message of my life and the reason for my arrival on what you
call &ldquo;Christmas&rdquo; was to uncover the fact that it
&ldquo;tain&rsquo;t so&rdquo; that you&rsquo;re sinners. It
&ldquo;tain&rsquo;t so&rdquo; that you&rsquo;re just mortals. It
&ldquo;tain&rsquo;t so&rdquo; that you are unholy messes.

That&rsquo;s the gospel. That&rsquo;s the good news that lifts you out
of your poor assessment of yourselves and allows you to let your mind be
inspired with the truth about you &ndash; you holy Son of God, you holy
Daughter of God &ndash; who are my Brothers and Sisters &ndash; equals
in actuality.

Whatever else you believe &hellip; &ldquo;tain&rsquo;t so!&rdquo; And my
purpose is to convey over and over, &ldquo;tain&rsquo;t so!&rdquo;
Don&rsquo;t you dare believe it! Don&rsquo;t continue to carry that
negative false self-assessment forward with you any further.
&ldquo;Tain&rsquo;t so!&rdquo;

Now one of the reasons I&rsquo;m bringing this up is because you all
know that you are suffering from false perceptions of the Kingdom of
Heaven and of the holy Sons and Daughters of God that are your Brothers
and Sisters, and because that is presented to you daily, you need to
remember to daily acknowledge, &ldquo;tain&rsquo;t so!&rdquo; rather
than succumbing to the invitation to believe what tain&rsquo;t so and
joining in reaction at that level of divine ignorance. That&rsquo;s the
point.

If you do not take that step of declaring that it &ldquo;tain&rsquo;t
so!&rdquo; the fact that it isn&rsquo;t so can&rsquo;t manifest. In
other words, the truth of the holy Son of God and Daughter of God that
each of you Are can&rsquo;t emerge as a conscious experience for you or
the Brother or Sister that you are acknowledging it about. Healing will
not occur.

Now, all of you at this time are very well aware that communication at
all levels is being abused. Its purpose is to deceive. It does it
through insinuation, and the suggestion that what is said is factual
without ever backing it up with facts. And because it is consciously
designed to manipulate your mind for reasons you have no awareness of at
all, you must be wise so that you don&rsquo;t become used for purposes
that are destructive to you or those ones or those things that deceitful
information is being shared about.

Now, I can hear someone saying, &ldquo;Well, what if the information can
be backed up with facts?&rdquo; Well, hey, Moses could see with his own
eyes that the people had created calves made of gold and jewels that
they were worshipping. He had the proof. It was a fact.

Well, that suckered him in. He bought it hook, line and sinker and said
it is true, &ldquo;these people are not worthy of the holiness of this
movement of freedom that they&rsquo;re in the middle of. I am angry with
them!&rdquo; And he lost his divine perspective.

But again, after collecting himself and engaging in the two-step again
and turning to the Father and saying, &ldquo;What is the truth
here?&rdquo; The Commandments &ndash; what was needed at that time
&ndash; were given again. And he brought them down and this time the
behavior didn&rsquo;t prove anything of value to him and he knew,
&ldquo;tain&rsquo;t so!&rdquo; and he didn&rsquo;t buy into it hook,
line and sinker and proceeded to lead the way out of that ignorance and
out of that faithlessness into the Promised Land. In other words, the
Answer &ndash; the clarity, the wholeness &ndash; that&rsquo;s the
message.

When it comes to literature, or any &ldquo;good story,&rdquo; there is
always a protagonist, there is always the good and the bad balancing off
of each other, attempting to overcome each other. And the more conflict
there is, the greater potential there is for the story to become great.
And everyone likes it. Everyone is turned on by a good story, a story of
real conflict in which good does triumph.

But of course, now and then, there has to be a story where evil triumphs
so that no one gets to feeling too good, and stays bound to the dynamics
of good story telling.

Why am I bringing this up? I&rsquo;m bringing it up because there are
suggestions coming from, we&rsquo;ll say, metaphysical or spiritual
sources that you are all coming into times of great potential disaster.
And in light of that, directions are being given as to how you can play
a part in overcoming the evil. You see? And everyone looks at it and
says, &ldquo;Wow, these are the elements of a good story!&rdquo; The
bigger the evil, the bigger the disaster that&rsquo;s ahead of us, the
greater the truth will be, the greater the reality will be that will
override it. And I am going to take my part in what? The drama &ndash;
the conflict. You see?

And you get sucked in, hook, line and sinker, into a fabric of conflict
which you are familiar with and from which you are able to glean a sense
of purpose that is gratifying and self-satisfying and causes you to
bring commitment to the conflict &ndash; to your part in the conflict.

And no one is saying to the whole thing, to the novel &ndash; the story
that&rsquo;s unfolding &ndash; &ldquo;tain&rsquo;t so!&rdquo; Nobody is
saying, &ldquo;We don&rsquo;t need a good story or a bad story, we want
to be out of the realm of story and the necessary conflict which stories
involve.&rdquo;

So, you say, &ldquo;What if I have proof that our leaders or our
governments or other governments or other leaders are dishonest and I
have proof of it?&rdquo; And not unlike that, the question is,
&ldquo;What if my sister or brother or myself has terminal cancer? I
have the facts, it is the truth!&rdquo;

Well, it&rsquo;s the same call: &ldquo;Tain&rsquo;t so &hellip;
tain&rsquo;t so &hellip; tain&rsquo;t so!&rdquo; You don&rsquo;t
actually have to yell it, I&rsquo;m being firm about it because until
there is an acknowledgement that it &ldquo;tain&rsquo;t so&rdquo; the
illusion of it can&rsquo;t collapse, its seeming reality can&rsquo;t
fade, so that what is true about your leaders or your governments or
your banking systems, and their real humaneness can come through.

The message of Christmas is: You are my Brothers. You are my Sisters. I
am the Christ. You are the Christ. We are equals held perfectly,
immaculately in the Mind of the God no matter what you might think you
are or believe you are. No matter what your apparent history seems to
state about you, you are being brought out of a state of bondage by the
uncovering of the fact that the bondage is illusory not because
it&rsquo;s real but you have a powerful enough God-given truth to
overwhelm it and destroy it. Is that clear?

The correction of the illusion lies in the realization that the illusion
has no actual presence. It &ldquo;tain&rsquo;t so!&rdquo; at any level.
That&rsquo;s the message of Christmas. It re-introduces humanity into
the conscious experience of Being, together with its absolute underlying
divinity &ndash; yours.

You are being constantly invited to hold your Brothers in disrespect.
Because whoever&rsquo;s inviting you to do it, has a profit to be made
from your believing it, has a benefit to be enjoyed by the downfall of
whoever they are discrediting.

Again, whether they back it up with facts or not, there is strain
occurring around your globe as the truth is being twisted and bent into
untruth so that you might validate the untruth and stop being the
Presence of That which carries forward the movement out of Egypt, out of
bondage, out of mortality.

The message of Christmas is one of joy. And the question is, how are you
going to use your mind now that you know that you are the holy Son or
Daughter of God and that every single one of your Brothers and Sisters
is also and that you all deserve to experience your sinlessness, your
guiltlessness. Because you could never have become what you have been
convinced you are, or that you have convinced yourself that you are
without ever referring back to the very Source of you &ndash; your
Being.

The message of Christmas says: Don&rsquo;t be taken in by appearances.
Don&rsquo;t be taken in by &ldquo;the facts,&rdquo; if they don&rsquo;t
return you to the mountaintop, if they don&rsquo;t confirm to you the
need of not abandoning the Vision that the Father provides of your
divinity and your Brothers&rsquo; divinity. You see?

You&rsquo;re here to be the leaven that leavens the whole lump, that
lifts and inspires everything above and out of the state of illusion
&ndash; the idolatry, the lasciviousness, the immorality.

The Gift of Christmas is Love. Plain, pure and simple. It is Love that
insists upon not being sucked in. It is Love that causes you to be
unable to say, &ldquo;It tis so, when it tain&rsquo;t so!&rdquo; And to
have the nerve and the guts and the commitment to reverse the suggestion
that presents itself to you that says, &ldquo;you have justification to
be disturbed and you have justification to blame your brother, punish
your brother and use whatever force it takes to get him to change his
behavior.&rdquo;

Well, I&rsquo;ll tell you something: If you walk around pointing at
everyone and saying, &ldquo;you&rsquo;re a sinner…you&rsquo;re a
sinner…you&rsquo;re a sinner…you&rsquo;re a sinner, I&rsquo;ll have
nothing to do with you until you stop being a sinner, you sinner.&rdquo;
If you do that, everyone is stuck.

You&rsquo;ve got to ask yourself where you&rsquo;re giving your
attention? Are you looking down or are you looking up? Are you looking
at things in your immediate vicinity or are you looking at the horizon?
Are you looking from a limited negative viewpoint or the infinite
vantage point that the Father provides you with and that its worth your
reaching for at every moment.

Be careful. When you bandy about words that characterize, or shall I say
mis-characterize the holy Sons and Daughters of God who are in your
world at this time, you don&rsquo;t have any other brothers and sisters
to have a corrected vision of. So work with the materials at hand.

Oh, I know &hellip; you could interpret that to mean I&rsquo;m saying
&ldquo;work with the lousy materials you have at hand and refine
them.&rdquo; No. The materials you have at hand no matter how negatively
you are assessing them are the Sons and Daughters of God &ndash; the
holy ones that are worth your denying the illusions about.

If you go around, as I said, saying &ldquo;you&rsquo;re a
sinner…you&rsquo;re a sinner&rdquo; you keep everyone else looking down,
instead of lifting up their minds to the infinite view. You&rsquo;re
here to do something more than identify and peg problems and illuminate
them. You&rsquo;re here to see it like Moses did and if you&rsquo;re
taken in by it, return to the Father, go back to the mountaintop &ndash;
do the two-step &ndash; so that your Vision is coming not from the
world, but from the Mind of God that is your real Mind.

Because therein lies the Answer that you can share with your brother
that is of such Meaning that he gladly lets go of his poor
self-assessment because the truth is so much more meaningful. But if
you&rsquo;re going to do that through the right use of your mind,
you&rsquo;re going to have to acknowledge that the illusions you see
simply aren&rsquo;t so and stop energizing them.

Be wise. Deceit has not always been the primary means of motivating and
manipulating the population. But with the information explosion so that
it&rsquo;s not only through mass media, but through the internet, it is
easier than ever before for mis-information and dis-information to be
given. And for those who like a good story to be that which sucks them
in, be alert! you holy Son and Daughter of God, so that you don&rsquo;t
get sucked in and you don&rsquo;t leave the Father&rsquo;s Vantage
Point, you don&rsquo;t abandon the two-step and you remember that in any
way, that you can assess an illusion to be real and justification for
condemnation or self-righteousness, you have lost your perspective. And
the Promised Land will not be reached.

Love your brother. Love one another. If indeed your brother is engaging
in activities that are a result of his poor self-assessment and
he&rsquo;s experiencing bondage, you cannot just say, &ldquo;his
behavior is wrong. He&rsquo;s lost. He doesn&rsquo;t deserve the
truth.&rdquo;

The call is for you to refuse to receive the invitation to believe that
any part of the illusion is real. Because the Answer does not lie in
whatever follows that acknowledgement.

The message of Christmas is: Love one another you holy Sons and
Daughters of God as I love you, as the Father loves you, as the Holy
Spirit loves you. Any justification for anything else will not heal.
But your commitment to the truth that you&rsquo;re willing to listen for
by going beyond the appearances will heal, will cause the Promised Land,
the Kingdom of Heaven to be revealed to you here and now.

How are you going to be? How are you going to behave? I have suggested
before that you express the wish to see &hellip; &ldquo;I wish to see
the evidence of Love. I wish to be the evidence of Love. I wish to see
the more of what God is Being right here than what I&rsquo;m
seeing.&rdquo;

These desires place your attention in the infinite vantage point, on the
horizon, as it were. And it is your Birthright to be experiencing the
result. You must care enough about your brother to find a way to go
within and do the two-step, engage in the holy instant because you want
to see the guiltlessness and nothing else of your Brother, of your
Sister.

Sticking with that desire and that commitment is the being of the
statement that the illusion, &ldquo;tain&rsquo;t so!&rdquo; and it is
the Answer.

May your holy days be full of glory and joy because you&rsquo;re finding
release from finding fault as though that&rsquo;s an integral part of
Waking up &ndash; of embodying the very reason the Christ appeared on
that first Christmas.

I love you all. Love one another.

