---
title: Feburary 7, 1982 Sunday
---

PAUL: I want to talk to my Guide. I need help, understanding, comprehension of
the situation I appear to be caught in, and I would be very grateful to make
contact and learn what it is in my experience that needs to be seen in order to
resolve some things.

Would you please identify yourself to me?

RAJ: My name is Rajpur. I have been waiting for your desire to speak, have been
aware of your requests in the recent past, but have had to await the proper
timing before making myself known to you.

PAUL: Am I making you up? Am I making up the words?

RAJ: Yes and no. I am not speaking directly with you. I am, you might say,
speaking to you in meanings without language. If I were to communicate with
someone in India they would hear me in their language, and yet I would not be
speaking to them in any language at all, just meanings.

The more you become integrated with your experience through the technique you
are now using, the more accurate will be your “translation” and the more easily
it will flow. Right now, my meanings are flowing fluidly, but the fact that
your typewriter is stuttering is due to your awkwardness and lack of experience
in communication on this level of consciousness.

You are also going to have to do this as often as you can in order to be
comfortable with it, and in order to give yourself a chance to overcome your
doubt that you are communicating with me and not making this up out of whole
cloth yourself.

PAUL: Are you available at all times?

RAJ: Yes and no. Time does not function in the limited way in which you
conceive it. I will go into that at another time. Suffice it to say that
although you will perceive the communication as occurring simultaneously with
your end of the conversation, my end of the conversation takes place when it is
convenient for me. It is then slotted into your time reference at the
appropriate moments.

PAUL: Are you assigned to me or something?

RAJ: It is a Self-appointed task or endeavor, which is borne out of my need to
further my own eternal development. We have been matched “naturally” by virtue
of the way in which our energy patterns complement each other. Where you are
weak I am strong, and your weakness brings into play in me a broadening and
refining of my strength in textures and patterns and tones and colours which
you will come to understand as your own consciousness becomes refined.

My relationship with you is evolved out of Love in Its broadest sense or
meanings. You must be aware that the words which you apply to the meanings I am
communicating are inherently incapable of capturing the nondimensional nature
of what I am saying. I will do my best to help bring out the breadth and depth
of what they imply, but you must remember that there will be two reasons ever
present in our communications for incorrect translation of my meanings—the size
of your vocabulary and the degree to which you have refined your energies.

Inaccuracies in your perception of my meanings will become apparent to me as we
communicate. I will work with you to bring out their higher meanings as we go
along.

PAUL: I am in the midst of a financial problem

RAJ: I know.

PAUL: Do you understand everything about it?

RAJ: Yes.

PAUL: Do you know everything about me?

RAJ: It is within my province to do so, but I am not interested. There are many
things to be done where I am, so I do not clutter myself up with irrelevancies.
When you bring up a subject of concern to you, I immediately understand
everything about the way it is appearing to you as well as everything about the
way it truly is. However there is no stuttering as there is with you.

In regard to your financial situation, I must point out that it is not as
complex as it appears to you.

PAUL: (Nothing heard)

RAJ: Your typewriter has stopped not because what I am communicating to you is
difficult to understand, nor are the meanings too deep or so intrinsically
subtle that you cannot catch them. You have what I can best describe as an
energy field which is scrambling your perceptions concerning your understanding
of the Nature of Substance. We will come to it through the back door so as not
to arouse the resistance or confusing nature of this energy field. I am not
limited by time and space, so therefore the term “back door” is nonsensical for
me, but it does convey to you the fact that the problem can be dealt with in a
nondimensional way.

You need to make a call, I know. So I would suggest you do that and then get
back with me. To you it will seem as though I am always here, although to me it
may seem as though a period of time of longer duration will occur between our
visits.

PAUL: (Not understood)

RAJ:  Hell, Paul, don’t fret over the precise words. Just put down “good-bye”
even though you know there’s more to the meaning. It will become clearer as we
go along.

PAUL:  I’m back. I want to find out if the energy field you referred to is an
irregularity in my energy field whether it is an extraneous energy field (since
Susan, my wife, was doing metaphysical work at that time), or whether it is the
“dark forces,” as I have heard them referred to?

RAJ:  No, it wasn’t your wife’s metaphysical work. And what I’m referring to
are not the dark forces. Rather, I am referring to some internal programmed and
accepted resister-type energy barriers which cause you to feel tense and
disconnected when it comes to dealing with the flowing Substance that you call
money.

I know you are sitting there thinking of a dozen other questions that you
really want to ask, but let’s stay with this one since you are going to have to
deal with it tomorrow. The other things can wait.

First of all, in spite of the events which you are aware are going to take
place in your near future, and the fact that you are aware that you may not be
doing what you are doing right now for much longer, it is well for you not to
change the pattern of living that you are currently engaged in. Change is all
around you—change that you have no say-so in, change that is going to have
tremendous impact far beyond even your clearest comprehension of things.

Keep the home front on an even keel, and even though you know it is a “vain
repetition” that is superfluous, it will be meaningful for the time and place
you find yourself in. The changes will become obviously clear to you shortly.
In the meantime, it is right to go through the motions of normalcy, as it is
defined generally today.

PAUL: I’m stuck. I am not hearing anything about the money problem and what to
do.

RAJ: Paul, when that happens just sit still, get further into your meditative
state, and feel the feeling of opening up—whatever that feels like to you. That
should do the trick.

PAUL: Okay. I will.

RAJ: Yes, I am here. Go further.

The tube of paper you see is symbolic of the continuity or fabric of Supply. It
is, as it were, a fabric. Unlike the tube of paper you see, you must imagine
that the paper is one infinite, connected loop of fabric like a Moebius Strip.
Be careful of the fact that we are trying to describe a Fourth-dimensional or
non-dimensional reality in the language of three dimensions, but it has to do
for now.

The fact that there appear to be two sides to the fabric is an illusion, as the
Moebius Strip implies. There is only one amount of Substance and that is
infinite. It is also continuous in a “woven” sense. It is as though you skate
on the surface of the flow of Supply. It is supporting you always; it is
present always; and it is all of it that you are skating on at all times. You
never get it in bits and pieces; it is never divided up. Everyone is always
skating on all of it.

You can see that the “availability” of Supply is a ridiculous misconception. We
all always have all of it. It constitutes the continuum of Being, Itself.
“Available” and “unavailable” “present” and “absent” cannot apply to or relate
to Substance or Supply.

Of course, you are asking why it seems to be absent, and I will tell you that
it is because you have not challenged the other side of the concept—that it can
be “present.“

Existence is the Presence that you call Supply and mean “money”. You really
limit yourself by seeing Supply as “money” when you need to be seeing Supply as
Supply.

In other words, when you see Supply as “money”, you are seeing it through the
wrong end of a pair of binoculars making it appear to diminish and get smaller.
To say that you should see Supply as Supply means to lift it out of the range
of optics, out of the range of visibility, into the perception that Simply is
the omnipresent Substance that constitutes the warp and woof of Consciousness.
It is the “stuff” of Existence.

This is not the only way to state this, but it is a way that you can understand
and, as you can see, we haven’t run into the resistance-loaded field of energy.

Don’t even bother to type your question.

Tomorrow you need to contemplate what I have just told you, with no expenditure
of energy. Don’t allow anyone to interfere or influence you about this.
Discourage any fears by either not telling anyone what you are doing, or, as in
the case of your wife, let her know what you are doing and ask her to be
patient for a day and leave you alone with this. I will be supporting you as
these ideas unfold, making it easier for them to take new form in your thought.

Go about your regular work in the best fashion you can, but let these things
linger in the background. From your standpoint I will be with you all day,
clearing the way. Since I know that you will let your wife read this, I will
ask her not to share what I know she knows about it, since this is your work to
do for yourself.

[Addressing Susan.] I know you know that, but you will be inclined to help, and
knowing Paul, it will get in the way. Thanks Susan.

Next question?

PAUL: I am loaded with questions, but this can go on and on. I’m going to go to
bed and talk with you in the morning. I am going to have to read over what
you’ve said. I hope you can feel my appreciation. Good night.

