---
title: Feburary 8, 1982 Monday
---

PAUL:  Thank you very much for what you shared with me last night. I did,
indeed, feel like you were with me today, throughout the day. The feeling I am
getting—since it isn’t coming to me in words—is that this infinite Substance is
a flowing or moving thing, and that what is necessary for me to do is to first
of all be aware that it does constitute the warp and woof of my conscious
being, and then to flow with it—Substance. Is that right?

RAJ:  You have listened well today.

I would like you to stop smoking, since it creates a tension and anxiety level
in your body which is mechanically caused by the substances in the smoke. You
will find that this feeling of anxiety, once gone, will leave you freer to
reach the finer planes or more subtle levels of consciousness.

Whether you do or not is up to you, but if you truly want to experience an
“expanded” consciousness, a more living awareness of Reality, you are going to
have to do it. It will make my part in this easier, and your part will become
more satisfying. Of course, coffee also induces an artificial change in your
body which, if you were not drinking it, would also leave you clearer.

Knowing your desire for clearer perception, which will result in a clearer
experience, I would suggest that you will be more than satisfied with no
partaking of coffee and cigarettes.

There are a number of things which have unfolded to you today and I am not
going to comment on them at this point, because there is still more for you to
realize before I talk with you about them. I am not here to do your thinking or
growing for you, but I am able to facilitate the process of realization.

You must become aware that the Enlightenment you experience is a process
inherent in Your Being. It is part of the dynamics—the “stuff”—of You. As long
as you are able to think that your discovery of the finer levels of Reality is
coming from “out there,” you will not have the necessary strength to support
the actual finer levels of consciousness which you want to experience.

You see, it is a primary function of Being—and that means You—to evolve Itself
out of Itself. It is just like your stomach’s function is to digest food. You
know it does it. You have experienced it doing it. And you know that if you put
in more food it will do it again.

Likewise, if you don’t know that it is the function of Your Being to evolve
Itself out of Itself, making Itself new, if you haven’t experienced It doing
it, if you don’t know that It does it, then you will misperceive the “new” and
will lose the Value of it.

Growth, unfoldment, Evolution—whatever you want to call it—is what constitutes
your Being. You need to experience that activity or function as yours. You are
ready to be consciously aware that it is occurring, rather than just observing
that it has occurred because you recognize you are in a new place. It is a
process that is just as consciously tangible as digestion is physically
tangible to you.

It is time to become aware of the “physiology” or anatomy of your mentality. Be
attentive to the process of what you call inspiration, intuition, psychic
awareness, enlightenment. It is not something happening to you at all. Rather,
it is You happening as You.

You may call it the New Physiology if you understand that your consciousness is
the Body of your Being, and not the form that has two arms, two legs, a head,
and so forth.

Where you have properly not studied the physiology of your human body, I want
you to begin an extremely thorough study of the functions of your Mental Body.
Dissect it. Look at it. Don’t be afraid to delve into every nook and cranny you
find. It is you, and yet it is the infinite Reality you have been looking for
in all your studying and listening for the Truth.

I will reiterate that it will be made much easier for you to do this if you
will stop smoking and drinking coffee.

As we go along and you have become conscious of the Body of Consciousness
through observation, through your method of meditation, and through your
healing work, your Self-awareness will allow me to speak about further things.
Discussing them with you will not weaken you in the direction of that
Self-discovery.

I think, as you go over what I have just said, you will find that the questions
you still have about Substance and Supply have been answered. But, it will be
necessary for you to allow your Being to define Itself to you (and now you will
be able to see that It is) as you.

I will continue to be with you tomorrow as I was today, and then we will be
able to rejoice together, instead of you rejoicing because I told it to you.

PAUL:  How is it I have learned to do this healing or whatever it is? Is it
healing?

RAJ:  I know you are wondering if I have helped you in your discovery of this
healing effect. But, the fact is that this is an example of the Phoenix[^1] rising
out of its own ashes, the new level of consciousness rising out of the old,
that I was telling you to observe.

I heard your requests when you made them, before you discovered this healing
ability or method, but I did not give you instruction. You might say that what
I did was to clear out some of the cobwebs, or dust, or superfluous energies,
which were impeding your growth.

I want you to continue to rely on the inherent Intelligence of Your Being to
reveal Itself in clearer and clearer evidence; AND I WANT YOU TO BE AWARE THAT
IT IS YOUR BEING “DOING ITS OWN THING” that you are observing.

You have been terribly weakened by your belief that your Good has ever come
from anywhere else but You, and I will probably harp on this again and again,
until it is supremely clear to you. The inner strength gained by the specific
awareness of Who You Are, What You Are, and that You Are Where It’s All
Happening, is the only way for you to move forward at the new level that you
are entering into. Dig into it, man! It’s more than you’ve dreamed of.

Remember the coffee and cigarettes!

PAUL:  What do I need in order to see Reality evidenced in my daily life?

RAJ:  Again, I’ve got to come back to this thing of observing the Physiology or
Anatomy of the Consciousness that You Are. Your daily experience images and
reflects these processes. You are already learning things—correspondences
between what occurs in your healing work and how to live in your world,
apparently “out there.“

In the past you have, in effect been trying to manipulate the image in the
mirror because you can touch, feel, and see it. It seems more real to you
because of its tangibility. Not having realized that what you call “body” is
Image, and not Body, and not having realized that Body is Consciousness, You,
you have ignored the lesson about the Reality (Source) of the Image that can
only be learned by understanding the True Body.

By “understanding” I mean real, actual felt, experiential awareness of the
Physiology of that Body. You will never control your environment if you think
the environment is the Image which you call the three-dimensional world. The
three-dimensional world is Pure Image. The distortions you see in it are not in
it. They are caused by your ignorance of the workings of the Source, of which
the Image is just an image.

The Source is Mind, Consciousness. The distortions you see and call “lack,”
“failure,” et cetera, attest to the weakness I spoke of earlier—the weakness
caused by your not perceiving the Anatomy and Functioning of your Being.
Ignorant of the Wholeness of Your Being, and of the Self-revealing Birthing
that It is forever giving to Itself, you have not the Strength to support a
clear, undistorted comprehension of the Image, which you refer to as your daily
life—or at least the place where your daily life occurs. That also is a
misconception, which I see you have just caught.

This strengthening that I am talking about can be described as the integrating
of “What You Are” with “Your Consciousness Of What You Are” AS YOU. The
bifurcation of your Self into a “self” and “an awareness of that self” is what
causes all distortion in your perception of the Image. Your Self and what you
call your perception of your Self are one and the same Life function.

Ponder this for awhile.

Next question?

PAUL:  I have worked hard for the last two and half years, and it looks like it
was for nothing. Everything is disintegrating around me. Why?

RAJ:  I know it’s intriguing to think that it may be because of the signs of
the times, the dark forces, and what-have-you, but the simple fact is that your
Being Evolves whether you’re “with it” or not. The Phoenix forever rises out of
its ashes. That is Life. Your Evolution went beyond what you were able to
support. The necessary integration—experiential Oneness of your Being as your
Being—needed to occur.

The Phoenix must fly! And so, it flew! And you said, “My God, what’s happening?
Everything is falling apart. What am I going to do? I can’t do anything! My
God, I’d better do something! What can I do? I can’t do anything, I’ve got to
do something.“

Finally, in the frustration of it all you reached through and beyond your
inability to do anything. You stepped through from the sheer force of your
Being, being You as a new creature and you found your hands getting hot, you
found yourself working with Tarot cards, et cetera. My God, Paul! You’ve just
experienced the Fundamental of Reality.

Everything fell apart because you couldn’t support it or correctly perceive it
without transforming Yourself. The image reflected the Dying, that is the
Birthing, that is the unbroken Eternal Constant called Existence.

I know you have questions about the Second Coming of Christ, but I’m not going
to answer them now. It’s too easy for you to find “importance” and “value” out
there, and you need to pay the utmost attention to the marvelous work of God’s
Hands, You, and find out how His Work works!

Whatever is going to happen will happen. Whatever is going to happen will
appear in the Image. And if it is appearing in the Image, where is it Really
occurring?

Man! If you don’t perceive that it’s All You—well, I see you’ve got the point.

If you want to follow the Master, then do what the Master did! What He did is
what you’re learning right now. The only way I am able to share these things
with you now is because you have already begun to see these things that are
happening as you—not the “ego,” but as the “I” that is Nothing, and which, by
virtue of being Nothing, can experience Its Somethingness. That’s Fact for you
now. You’ve experienced it. Embroidering what you know will not weaken you or
deprive you of a thing, and that’s why we’re talking now.

I’m not going to answer any other questions now because they have already been
answered. Think about what I’ve said. Go over your questions on your own. Then,
get out of the way like you have been doing and observe Your Self and Its Image
Function!

Good night. (I notice you didn’t have any trouble with it this time.)

[^1]: A mythical bird fabled to burn itself on a funeral pyre, and to rise from its ashes in the freshness of youth.

