---
title: Feburary 10, 1982 Wednesday
---

PAUL: Today I won’t go through the procedure of asking you questions, since
from what you told Susan, you are waiting for me, and you already know—well,
I’m assuming. Do you already know what I’m interested in learning?

RAJ: Yes.

PAUL: Okay. Then I’m going to not mess around today and simply let you tell me
what you know I need to know, unless you want me to do it some other way.

RAJ: No, I didn’t want you to do it some other way.

PAUL: I’m quite excited today, and it’s getting in the way, or at least it
seems like it is to me. I’m going to take a minute to relax.

RAJ: You don’t need to relax. You don’t really have to go into a special state
in order to communicate with me. In fact, it’s essential for you to discover
that the Whole Spectrum, from gross to subtle, is always present all the time,
no matter what level of consciousness you seem to be operating from.

It’s time for you to become aware that All of You is present at all times, both
in the sense of all levels of consciousness being available at all times, and
in the sense that all dimensions—infinity and eternity—are always present all
the time. It does not matter where you seem to be coming from
three-dimensionally.

You have noticed that I am with you whenever it occurs to you to think about
me. All of you is always present, whether you are consciously focusing your
attention on it or not. There’s a lesson in that one sentence for you, Paul.

I know you are excited about what all of this is going to mean for you. This
exhibits a readiness on your part, a point of development reached, which is
enabling you to move into it.

Sometimes, Paul, you have a tendency to make things more complex than they are,
and as it happens, the message of “Simplify, simplify, simplify,” is apropos
for you. Don’t quibble over words, even though you may include in your
vocabulary words that express higher degrees of refinement and greater
subtleties of expression.

Right now, these times we spend together are for you, and their purpose is not
for publication, although it is perfectly alright for you to share them with
your wife and your mother. Since they are not for publication, it is not
necessary for you to search for exactly the right word, since you are
experiencing the finer textures and subtleties of the meaning as we talk.

I really want your attention to be on your conscious experience, your
experience of being conscious. And, I don’t want your attention on how these
things are going to be heard by others, since that is not their intent or
purpose. If you are going to fully benefit, you must devote yourself to your
Self completely, devotedly.

Do not get hung up on words. As you have discovered, you are having to find
words to express the meaning, because you have the meaning; whereas in the
past, you have started with the words and had to put the meaning into them. You
knew no other way to do it, but that is not the case any more. So, I want you
to give your full attention to the depth, the breadth, the harmonies, the
textures, the colours, the full spectrum of the meanings I am communicating to
you. It is this Self experience which is essential in order for you to move
forward as the butterfly.[^1]

It is time for you to move forward being consciously and completely aware of
your Self as Conscious Being, no longer a “material being.” I say that for you,
because you understand that I am not speaking about being a mortal. It is a
matter of the focal point.

You are at a point of, let’s say, shifting gears, no longer to move around in
the world of three dimensions as shape, an identity, a body, an organism making
its way in the three-dimensional world where the environment can be either
friend or foe, pleasant or difficult. That is what I meant when I said a
“material being.“

As Conscious Being, you are going to move around in an environment of ideas, of
activities, of functions that are totally mental, and you will learn to do this
while apparently living three-dimensionally, as a “material being.“

You are presently practicing and experiencing and discovering to some small
degree your new territory by means of our very conversations.

You know that as we communicate you are able to feel, sense, and experience the
meaning of ideas. You are grasping that they have texture and substance which
is completely tangible at the level of consciousness.

[Again, Paul this is a note to you. Quit trying so hard to have the right
words. Flow with it.

In other words, you are discovering that there is structure, that there is the
equivalent of shape, outline, form, colour to the processes, as well as the
“inhabitants” of Consciousness. you are finding that Consciousness is just as
infinite as the three-dimensional universe you looked at and saw and
experienced with your five senses.

It is not necessary for you to go into a trance or a deep mental state in order
to experience this, although it may help initially. However, you can see that
today you are not in a deep meditation, and yet we are quite as capable of
conversing as we were yesterday when you went into a very deep meditative
state. This indicates a growing proficiency and familiarity with your mental
Universe.

Each time we are together, you will be gaining more experience and familiarity,
you will discover more fullness, more satisfaction—”satisfaction” in the sense
of Self-recognition.

What gives substance to your experience as Conscious Being is that it is your
Self that you are experiencing—the depth, breadth, and infinitude of your
Being—so that the more you become aware of, the more you are aware that It is
You. In other words, conscious experience is a Self substantiating experience.
This is why it is satisfying. This is what I meant by the use of the word
“satisfaction.“

I am going to mention again that I would like you to make, in effect, a
conscientious effort to stop smoking and stop drinking coffee. I do not mean
“conscientious” in the sense of effort expended, but a total willingness to let
them go.

As you sit there thinking, “This is going to be difficult,” remember that there
is only one thing going on, no matter how infinitely seen, and that one thing
is You. Therefore, when you desire a thing and that thing is in harmony with
your Being, then the infinitude that you see embraces and supports that desire.
The cigarettes and coffee will be more than happy to let you go and will love
doing it. But you must be willing.

I know that you know what I shared with Susan. I know that you have recognized
some trace of egotism still present in your experience, but do not make a big
thing out of it—the egotistical sense, that is. Don’t make a big thing out of
it, don’t make a little out of it. The more practice you get at moving as Your
World, as Conscious Being, the more you find yourself recognizing your Self as
All, what traces of egotism remain will dwindle spontaneously for lack of
nourishment.

Egotism is what we do when we are not able to recognize our Self as the world
we’re walking through, when we do not find substantiation of our Self in our
experience. When we find the Soul-satisfying experience of knowing ourselves in
every function and activity of our experience, we know beyond a shadow of a
doubt that finite perceptions of ourselves—the ego and its satisfactions—are
but pitiful efforts that we no longer desire to indulge in, because we know
what Satisfaction is.

Right now, you are unable to see the connection between the things I am telling
you (and which you are experiencing) and the three-dimensional frame of
reference where you appear to eat, sleep, work, play (ha ha), and live your
life. That is all right. We have time.

I know you are wanting to spend more time than you have been able to in the
last two days with the Tarot cards and with your healing activities. I would
suggest that you do take time to utilize these avenues of Self-discovery. These
allow you to bring the experience of your Self as Conscious Being into your
daily experience. They will help increase your ability to discover in what ways
being as Conscious Being can occur and be relative to what appears to be you
being as “material being” or three-dimensional being. These are valid and
valuable tools for your growth at this point, and I know you are seeing that.

In the past, the metaphysical and healing work you did had as its focal point
the individuality you were working with, and not your Self. This is why it did
not work out.

When your attention is removed from your Self—and that means your experience of
your Self as all that is being experienced—and you have your attention external
to It, it is like depriving your Self of oxygen; and the activity will not
support itself. This is why your practice did not succeed.

All activity is Self-activity. All activity is the Activity of the One and Only
thing going on, which you experience as your Self.

You’re learning intuitively with your healing work and with your work with the
Tarot cards to remain at the conscious level, even though you are handling
cards and bodies. You are not giving your attention to the cards, nor are you
giving your attention to the individualities with whom you are working. You are
not unaware of them, but your focus of attention remains at the point of your
Consciousness. This is why you are finding yourself successful.

As the days go on, I want you to take some time to stand back, as you did
yesterday. Take an objective look at what is happening to you. “Objective” is
not a good word. I want you to take an overall look.

I want you to take a look at your experience when we are speaking together. I
want you to take a look at what is happening in your work with the Tarot cards.
And I want you to take a look at your experience when you are doing the healing
work. You will find that these cover three distinctly different types of
activity.

This contemplative view of the larger picture of your activity, of experience
which occurs at the level of Conscious Being, as Conscious Being, will help you
in being able to broaden your ability to live your three-dimensional life as a
Fourth-dimensional Being, never leaving the standpoint of Consciousness as the
environment in which you live.

You have a familiarity with the phrase, “Be out from Mind.” This is what you
are doing when you are working with the Tarot cards. This is what you are doing
when you are doing the healing work. And this is what you are doing right now
while we’re speaking together.

You can hear the kids going in and out of the doors. You can feel the
microphone in your hand. You can hear everything that is going on. You are even
working the microphone. Yet you are not for a moment experiencing any of it as
though you were in it. Your attention, your awareness, is residing at the point
of being the experiencing of the conscious experience called microphone, couch,
traffic, sound, activity in the house, et cetera.

As far as you are concerned, I’m going to be with you for quite awhile because
it is time. You are ready, and you want it. It is true, “When the student is
ready, the teacher appears.“

You are concerned about whether I really am a separate individual, but there is
something more important going on here, something that is important for you.
You have recognized it, but you do not understand it; nevertheless you are
willing to accept it.

You don’t know if I am real or not, or a figment of your imagination, or a
higher “self,” et cetera. But, you have been willing to totally commit yourself
to an unequivocal trust and not give a damn about whether I’m real or not. You
recognize this willingness to trust as being important for you right now, and
you are right. This willingness and humble trust must continue for what is
called “a period of time,” for it is essential to your success. When it has
fulfilled its purpose, we will talk about whether I am real or not.

Tell Susan that when and if she gets panicky about the circumstances, that I am
always equally available to her directly, even though our relationship is
entirely different from my relationship to you. I will be available to her
because you are a team, and she needs not to be in the dark about what is going
on. I am not here for the purpose of guiding or teaching her. Still it is
necessary for her to understand certain things at certain times when she
becomes concerned or afraid.

There is no particular procedure for contacting me, as you well know. It will
seem to her as though I am always present and always available if she needs
clarification. Let her know that.

As I said yesterday, lean on your Self. Depend on It. Trust It. Demand the
answers from It rather than what appear to be “others.” Remember that whether I
truly am a separate individual or not, I am Your Conscious Experience when we
are together. This is imperative and it is a key to further unfoldment. I know
that you grasp this from an experiential standpoint and that this is not just a
“head trip.“

Do not lean on yourself with a vengeance, just do it totally. Intellectually
you know that what the ego wants and what the ego gets is not worth the powder
to blow it to kingdom come. You have arrived at the point where you truly do
not want what your thinking mind can give you. You have developed a natural
repulsion to it and have been willing to put it down. You have allowed yourself
to move out of the three-dimensional frame of reference as a “material being”
into the Fourth-dimensional experience of Conscious Being.

It’s true. The Way is straight and narrow, and few there be that enter. There
truly is no other way, and it truly requires a heartfelt desire to not have
your own will be done.

There is more than enough here for you to think about, and so I will stop.

There is no reason for us to talk only once a day. We may talk more than that
if you like, but knowing your present point of growth or development, I would
suggest that we not talk less than once a day.

I will respond to the thought that you were just thinking. The concept which
has occurred to you—that the “natural” selection by which we are working
together is based on a harmonic matching—is a satisfactory concept. The fact
is, that we will work together until you have grown to the point where the
harmonics no longer complement each other, and our relationship will apparently
change. At that point, it will not be experienced with any sense of loss by
you.

I will be with you.

[^1]: This makes reference to the transformational process a caterpillar goes through, finally emerging as a butterfly—at a new level of life experience.

