---
title: Feburary 16, 1982 Tuesday
---

PAUL: Raj&hellip;

RAJ: Paul, I’m going to interrupt you and tell you: Do not conceptualize. Do
not become comfortable and assured that, because being out from Mind is not as
difficult as you thought it was, and because you are becoming more familiar
with it, that you can now peg things and feel secure, as though you “know” what
is going to happen. Be cautious, and stand at that Place where you know that
you know nothing.

You are going to need to learn to be very cautious because, when you are being
as Conscious Being, it is going to become more and more familiar to you. It
will seem more and more natural, and it will apparently seem to be “natural”
for you to do two things at once: one, be out from Mind as Mind; and two, be as
a three-dimensional material man. They will both begin to feel “normal,” and it
will become relatively easy to jump the track.

As you are already aware, there is a very subtle difference between your
experience of my speaking with you and your experience of you thinking your own
thoughts. The difference between Fourth-dimensional “normal” and
three-dimensional “normal” will become more and more subtle as you become more
familiar with being out from Mind. It will require that conscientious attention
be given to the subtle difference, so that you may perceive which “normal” is
the Fourth-dimensional “normal.“

Unfortunately, if this alertness is not developed you can suddenly find
yourself on a different track going in a different direction—running into
problems. As your experience broadens and deepens as Fourth-dimensional Being,
the subtle difference between Fourth-dimensional and three-dimensional “normal”
will begin to become more gross. The three-dimensional difference will begin to
become as foreign to you as being out from Mind seemed foreign, yet wonderful
to you when it first occurred.

When I say that the three-dimensional frame of reference will become foreign to
you, I simply mean that it will not feel like Home. Finally, it will simply
become forgotten as a frame of reference. This is because the point of
Conscious Awareness that you experience as “you” will be posited solidly in and
as Fourth-dimensional Being. However, be alert during this transition, and do
not become cocksure. Do not let your gratitude or enthusiasm, no matter how
valid, overwhelm you to the point where you cannot discern the subtle
difference.

PAUL: [I put down the microphone to take a short break, getting a cup of
coffee, and smoke a cigarette. Something was bothering me, and I picked up the
mike again.]

RAJ: Paul, thank you for picking the microphone up again. Let’s take a look at
why it is you want to take this break; why it is that you feel the need for a
cigarette; and what it is you are trying to avoid here.

I know you feel more casual in your relationship with me and this is excellent.
But you are fooling yourself into thinking that interrupting our conversation
for the purpose of getting a cigarette and a cup of coffee is just being
casual. It is not.

You are feeling unsettled in the pit of your stomach. You can feel a subtle
high-pitched or high-vibrational energy activity throughout your body. It is
almost unnoticeable. The message you are receiving is, “Get out of what you
are.” “Do something else,” “Do anything, but stop what you are doing, at least
for a short break where you can relax again.” Ask yourself why it is that you
are not relaxed right now.

Very good, Paul. You have realized that to ask the question is to deny yourself
the answer. In order to get the answer you must refrain from asking the
question, and get back into that Place where you experience your being as
Conscious Being.

What happened is that you just jumped the track. When you are able to be out
from Mind as Mind right where the three-dimensional frame of reference is going
on—when you can walk through the dream awake and the dream is still fresh
enough in your mind—it is as though the experience of “normalcy” becomes a
bridge between the two dimensions. Actually, it is more like a slide. It seems
as though you can involuntarily slip back and forth, not even realizing that
the slip has occurred.

Once the slip took place you thought you were still in that Place, experiencing
yourself as Conscious Being. But, the high vibration energy scurrying through
your body and the feeling of anxiety in the pit of your stomach were both
signals to you that you had, indeed slipped. You were beginning to feel the
feelings that three-dimensional man feels of isolation and incompleteness. You
were beginning to feel the need to “get,” the need to “get out into a different
place,” and to “get away from where you are.“

Think about this, Paul, because it illustrates that, from a three-dimensional
frame of reference, nothing seems to work together or harmonize for the
well-being of the individual. It tells him to get away from where he is. It
makes him move around physically, attempting to do things, and get things, and
satisfy this feeling of incompleteness. Yet it is exactly the opposite thing
that is the answer to getting out of all of that—the opposite being that one
needs to stay right where he is. He needs to give up his attempt to get,
become, achieve.

PAUL: Did you arrange that?

RAJ: No. It was not necessary, nor would I have done it. I will not manipulate
your life. It is not necessary in order for you to learn, since your life
presents you with all the materials you need to do a sufficient and effective
job.

Paul, as I told you the other day, when it comes to a visit with this one
called your mother, you must stay at that point which you are now quite
familiar with, of being out from Mind. You have perceived correctly that today
is a day of healing and illustration. It is a day of realization of the intent
of the pattern of circles within circles, which you experience as Being in what
we call the present time. I cautioned you not to be fooled into believing that
a drama is being played out in terms of the way it might appear from a
three-dimensional-only standpoint.

Paul, there most certainly is an intent or purpose, a Divine Purpose, being
fulfilled today. However, it is far from what it appears to be from a
three-dimensional standpoint. I know that you have really no more idea what is
going to happen as the day finishes out than you do when you begin a healing
session, than you do when we begin a conversation, or than you do when you lay
out the Tarot cards. Do not let that concern you. Just stay where you are and
observe the Divine Purpose fulfill Itself. You have trusted me before when you
weren’t even sure I was real. I am saying now, again, “Trust me.” And I can see
that you do trust even more.

Now I am going to let you go get your cup of coffee and your cigarette, because
you are wanting to do it from the right place, and we will continue when you
come back.

PAUL: [Cigarette and coffee break]

RAJ: You have noticed that when I said that you could go ahead and take the
coffee break because you were coming from the right place, you were not free of
that feeling in the pit of your stomach. You are wondering why I said you were
in the right place.

At the edge of your consciousness, you have a slight perception that although
you were feeling the physical sensation of what you call anxiety, your
awareness was, nevertheless, in the right place. In other words, putting the
physical feeling aside and taking a look at the Place where your consciousness
was aware of being, the subtle difference indicated “being out from Mind” was
present.

The reason it seemed to you as though I might have made a mistake and that you
had, indeed, still slipped the track, was because you forgot that when you do
the healing work and are in that proper place, you still have physical
sensations. This includes the sensation of anxiety in the solar plexus. You are
realizing that when that sensation occurs to you in a healing session, it
indicates not a three-dimensional point of view on your part, but an awareness
of a pervading feeling (distress) in the area of the person you are working
with.

You are not doing specific healing work on an individual right now. Yet you
are, nevertheless, experiencing this feeling of distress while being out from
Mind. It means there is a disturbance in the immediate area of your home. You
are correctly sensing that it is being experienced because there is a conscious
realization, however slight, that, in Biblical terms, the Spirit of God is
present to move upon the troubled waters of the three-dimensional experience,
and heal it.

When we are finished with our conversation, I want you to form an image of your
home and visualize it as being between your hands. Proceed to deal with this
physical sensation of anxiety in exactly the same way you would if an
individual were sitting between your hands.

You will find, as a result of doing this, that it would have been a shame if
you had simply interrupted our conversation and gotten a cup of coffee and a
cigarette without having detected the subtle but important differences that
were present to be seen in your conscious awareness.

Be always alert. it is as though you walk through a diamond mine where
brilliant jewels of light, embedded and encrusted in dirt, await your intuitive
discovery. They could be anywhere, so infinite is the Actuality of your Being.

I realize you have things you need to do in preparation for this evening, and
if you feel like talking with me later this evening, I would enjoy it.

Good-bye.


