---
title: Feburary 17, 1982 Wednesday
---

RAJ: Paul, it is important for you to do everything you can to stay in that
Place where it is clear to you that you are absolutely and completely employed
now. I know that this will take a great deal of faith, especially at times when
you are tempted to be drawn into the apparent demands coming from the limited
three-dimensional viewpoints which those around you feel are absolute law.

When you perceive that your employment is, to use the term that is coming to
you “full,” you are perceiving correctly. What gives that “full” feeling is the
fact that it is truly the activity of Divine Love. As you move forward in this
atmosphere, this fullness will take on more definition to you. You will find
more words coming to you than “full” to describe it.

Your perception that your workroom is already active and that you are already
employed, although totally by yourself is absolutely correct. That activity can
only function when you are strictly operating from the point of Conscious
Being.

You will find that the apparent finite, three-dimensional demands that have
been made on you in the past will decrease proportionately to your willingness
to work from the standpoint of your Being, as Conscious Being or Fourth
dimensional Man.

You used to get up at six o’clock in the morning and work until ten o’clock at
night, diligently working to put out a transcript.[^1] Your job now is to just as
diligently give your attention to that edge of Infinity which you have learned
to recognize as the Source of infinite Wisdom, Truth, and all Knowledge.

As you and Susan recognized this afternoon, Jesus said, “I am the Door.“[^2] As I
told Susan this morning, the Wisdom she attributes to me is not mine. I am also
the Door. You and Susan are learning to be Doors—Doorways to the Infinity that
is God, your Real Being. Doing this, you will each know what to do and when to
do it—and I mean you will Truly Know.

Acting out from Mind will make you appear to be quite successful from the
three-dimensional frame of reference, but the reason you will appear to be
successful is because nothing is happening from that frame of reference.

All action is occurring at the point of Consciousness, Mind, and seen
three-dimensionally as whatever appears. This is why it is so essential for
both of you to be willing to ignore the cries and claims arising out of a
limited, isolated, three-dimensional point of view. Be willing to stand like
lead weights at the edge of all conscious thought, attentive to that Place
where ego is entirely absent. Watch Mind unfold Itself as Your Conscious
Experience of Being. Fulfillment can be experienced in no other way.

If you feel that you do not know what steps to take, and are feeling reluctant
to take any steps until the answers have been given, you will find it practical
to do what you do when we are having our conversations. You state your
questions and then you say, “Answer” as though you fully expect it. In other
words, you do not wait to begin transcribing until after the conversation has
started. You know you wish to converse with me, and so you take the first step.
You take that step only after getting into that Place where you are being as
Conscious Being. This should be your approach regarding everything. Get in that
Place, and then take an actual step. Make a phone call. Drive to someone’s
office, or whatever. Do it even if you do not know what you are going to do
after you get there. Do it all as Conscious Being and you will find the flow of
the resolution of this problem proceeding.

Do and Be everything out from Mind.

PAUL: Raj, you are aware of what I am thinking in terms of a monthly newsletter
of some sort. Is this something that you see as a possibility that you and I
could proceed with?

RAJ: It is a possibility. Ask me again in a few days.

PAUL: I have no other questions at the moment, and want to consider what we
have talked about already. It is very likely that I will want to speak with you
again later this evening. In fact, I would like to spend as much time as
possible conversing with you, as long as I have no other employment activity to
occupy my time.

RAJ: That will be fine, Paul. I will look forward to talking with you later on.

[^1]: The business I had involved transcribing for court reporters.

[^2]: John 10.9.

