---
title: Feburary 18, 1982 Thursday Afternoon
---

PAUL: Thank you very much for the conversation this morning. It hit every nail
right on the head and snapped me out of the doldrums.

Because that was the issue at that point, we did not get into some other
questions that I have. This whole idea of the Second Coming of the Christ, or
the Reappearing of the Christ, is certainly acceptable to me—or shall I say
it’s not offending my preconceptions. The details of it, however, are really
stretching their boundaries.

I will have to say that if there were a way to have some objective, visible
verification that these things are occurring, it seems to me that it would help
clarify for me the feeling that I am fabricating or imagining these parts of
your conversation. And, it would put to rest some underlying doubts that I feel
are getting in the way of simply moving forward with my own experience as
Conscious Being.

It would be nice if the wheels were not spinning, and I could go about my
activities knowing in what way I fit into this whole thing.

I guess you could say I’m applying for a job.

From what little I am aware of, Maitreya and some of the Masters are, indeed,
already here and active. If there is anything I can do with the talents that I
have to further that work, or participate in it, I’m ready, willing, and able.
I guess with that I will turn the floor over to you.

RAJ: Paul, I am aware that you are concerned that, once again you will not
translate my meanings correctly because the subject matter is jangling your
mind or stretching your concepts. Once again, you do not have to be concerned
that you will be misunderstanding me, since we have established a good solid
“connection,” you might say. And, in fact, I think that if you relaxed a little
bit more you would find that you wouldn’t have to push the button on the
microphone quite so often, and you would find that the words would flow very
smoothly.

Nevertheless, the fact remains that you are reading me loud and clear.
Otherwise, I would have told you. Not everything can be revealed to you at
once, because it would cause you in some things, to neglect necessary growth
that has to come out of the very depths of your Being. As you have also become
aware, although we are the Door, the Door is not nothing. And the Door must be
prepared to be the passageway for the Limitless Wisdom, Truth, Knowledge, and
Understanding constituting the Universal Being that constitute each One of Us.

Maitreya has grown, or developed, the Doorway that He is to such a high degree,
or to such advanced dimensions, that the Christ-consciousness is identified
almost as being identical to it. But there is a fine distinction there, and we
must keep clear that it does not mean that New Jerusalem is to be the City
belonging to the Doorway called Maitreya.

Paul, you will have objective proof of what we are speaking. I cannot tell you
exactly when, but you will not be held dangling on a string like a puppet so
that it deprives you of your awareness of Your Self as being a point through
which Being is Expressing Itself completely and fully.

As I said before, although you are the transparency for the Christ, the vehicle
is your Love. I realize that you have had to do everything you are doing on
great faith that has welled up from the very depths of your own Being. And, you
see it is the depth of your own Being that constitutes the Key to the Kingdom
of Heaven. You have to be the Key that unlocks the door. That is why none of
this can be done for you.

I know I appear to be being evasive, but believe me, I am not. Nor am I leading
you on. Everything has a time and place. You will understand, once you have
hindsight, exactly why it is that things did not happen and ideas were not
perceived until the time they actually happened and were perceived.

Also, it is not up to me as to when objective verification will be given you. I
can only say that what you have done so far is a source of great joy, and is an
integral part of the awakening of Planet Earth to its true potential as
Conscious Being. By that I mean all mankind.

I understand that you have some difficulty totally believing what I am telling
you right now. It is going to be up to you at the present time to decide
whether you are going to continue to give it your faith or not. Part of all of
this depends upon the strength of the intuitive recognition of what is
occurring in the world in spite of what the media is proclaiming about the
destruction and disarray of organizations, countries, monetary systems, and so
on, around the globe.

You will not have any objective proof until there is sufficient strength in the
recognition of the signs of the times. Your intuition and your faith in it
constitute an energy which is building in many individualities around the
globe, and which is strengthening the general atmosphere of consciousness.

If the objective proof were given to you before what is occurring in your own
being—before this faith in your intuition—had fulfilled its worldwide
strengthening purpose, you would no longer need to express faith, nor would you
lean upon your intuition in that direction any longer, and right now that
energy is needed. This is why you have no objective evidence at the present
time.

Again, I reassure you that the moment your energy is not needed for the
fulfillment of that purpose you will have objective proof.

PAUL: Raj, I have never asked you about where you are. I am curious to know
whether you are here on this planet or somewhere else.

RAJ: I have recently been there but am not now.

PAUL: Will I have an opportunity at some point to meet you “physically?”

RAJ: It is not likely—at least not for the time being—since there needs to be a
greater strengthening of our ability to communicate fluently. Although you may
not realize it, if you were to meet me physically, it would throw a bind into
the process which you are learning right now.

Paul, I know that you are wondering about where your source of income will come
from now. This is something I want you to go within about, and lean on your
Self for the answer. You can trust that whatever answer unfolds out of your
Being will harmonize and coincide with these other events that I have been
speaking about. But, you must remember to do all of it from the standpoint of
Being as Conscious Being or Fourth-dimensional Man.

In answer to a thought that you had earlier, the fact that you seem to feel
quite normal right now while you are speaking with me does not mean that you
are not coming out from Mind. It does mean that you are becoming far more adept
and familiar at moving around as Mind. You see, Paul, it is not as different as
you thought it was. it is not shocking or jarring to your Being. This is a
valuable lesson for you.

Be careful that you do not invalidate its actuality by thinking that because
the process seems so normal at this moment, that you must not be coming from
the Place of Fourth-dimensional Being.

You must remember that in the process of becoming Fourth-dimensional Man, you
have not left the other three dimensions behind. They are all there, and you
will not function in all four dimensions. This is where I would like you to
give your attention in order to discover in what ways things are now different
for you as you are being out from Mind in a four-dimensional world.

For example, you have noticed that when you do not want to get a telephone call
because it will interrupt our conversation, you don’t get any telephone calls.
You will find that when you say the word, and the word comes from that point
where you are being as Conscious Being, then that word will be done. It will be
with no personal sense of power, because the only way the word can come from
there is if it is in total harmony with Being Itself. Nevertheless, you will
find that things will happen differently for you now than they did when you
were seeing from a three-dimensional point of view and placing your sense of
self within that frame of reference. You have graduated into the Fourth
Dimension rather smoothly, Paul. I am pleased, just as I know you are amazed
that it has happened at all, considering that it was not more dynamic than it
has been.

Paul, I keep saying that Being, Enlightenment, Growth, the rising of the
Phoenix from its own ashes, is perfectly natural and normal, that it is always
something that we are capable of doing. It will probably be some time before
you realize the full impact of that fact and relax at the living of Life. But
be aware of it now, to whatever degree you are able.

I know that Susan wants to speak with me, and I am more than happy to speak to
her through you. This will give you more practice at developing the fluency
that even during this conversation you have found is increasing. I am also
aware that you will probably want to speak with me later, and I will look
forward to that.

