---
title: Feburary 20, 1982 Saturday
---

PAUL: Raj, once again I feel confused. I am disappointed that I am not being
able to stay on what feels like an even keel. I am doubting that all of this is
doing any good. That doubt is just on one level. At another level, I feel
everything is right on. But there is a part of me that is questioning whether
any of this is valid.

I do not mean to be insulting to you. I am just reporting what is going on in
my thought.

RAJ: I understand Paul. Don’t be afraid to share what you are feeling. It does
not constitute the whole of your being, just a rather shallow, surface part.
This continual flip-flopping back and forth is providing you with some
perspective.

In the past, when you have flip-flopped, it has been accepted by you in a
negative way. There was no real perspective that there is far more to you than
just what you are feeling at any moment. Now this larger view of yourself is
becoming clearer to you as each day goes by.

I never said this was going to be easy. It was only out of simple ignorance
that you might have thought that it would be. I recognize that you do not mind
the labor involved, and that is good.

You are wondering why you are getting these challenges, why there seem to be a
bunch of ninnies around your house running off halfcocked, not experiencing the
calm equilibrium that comes from within, and bouncing around on the surface of
their thoughts as though it were a trampoline.

It must become clear to you that you are looking for support for your point of
growth in those around you, insofar as you want them to at least respect what
you are doing, and hopefully, have some inner appreciation for what is
happening in your experience.

When you are feeling in a weak or vulnerable position, you have a tremendous
tendency to reach out to anyone and everyone around you to validate your
position, so you can feel at ease. Paul, this does not strengthen you. I can
see that you are getting the idea that you must follow through for your sake,
no matter what.

I reassure you again that being as Conscious Being does not destroy your world,
nor does it destroy you. It simply destroys processes within your frame of mind
which have been based on false assumptions and beliefs. You do not need to be
afraid that it will tear your marriage apart, tear your family apart, or tear
your life apart.

Paul, as you were beginning to see very slightly yesterday, the
three-dimensional frame of reference is very thin. It literally has no
Substance in it. You are beginning to see how much more substantial things are
from the standpoint of Conscious Being—wherein all facets of your life are
discerned from the vantage point of their meaning—instead of the way they
appear to the five senses.

PAUL: I do not understand why my attention is being unceremoniously grabbed by
jagged, angular attitudes expressed around me. My need is to be able to be in a
place where I can experience things from the standpoint of Conscious Being,
which is very calm, relaxed, and unfluttered—especially right now when I don’t
feel particularly strong or secure in that position.

RAJ: Paul, your statement is not quite accurate. You have realized that these
angular, jagged attitudes, as you have put it, are uncomfortable for you. They
are experienced as a demand for you to be strong when you do not feel strong.

Paul, the only reason the demand for strength is being placed upon you is
because that is what the specific enlightenment is all about. It is bursting
the sense of limitation you have about your own inner strength. You can embrace
a feeling of eagerness in the bursting of that belief, because it is essential
that it be consciously experienced as a part of the integrity of your Being—as
You.

You see, your strength is constituted of the cohesiveness of the energies that
constitute the fact that you are One, and not divided into Self and no-self,
conscious and unconscious, “in here” and “out there.” When I have said that you
are the One that constitutes the Many, it means that you are the One that is
infinite. You must grasp the idea that the Many referred to are in no way
separated or isolated from the One that is You that is experiencing them. The
One never does become split up into Many. When you say “Many, meaning the
infinitude of the One, that word “Many” must mean One, infinitely expressed.
Your three-dimensional frame of reference, which you are not entirely free of,
is inclined to insinuate a separateness of the Many. But it does not make that
separateness a fact. You will need to strengthen your awareness of the fact
that when the word “Many” is used, it means one infinite One. Think about that,
Paul.

As you move along, you will find that you have entertained three-dimensional
concepts which include the sense of separateness. You will find that not only
will your world be experienced in a more cohesive awareness of Oneness, but,
likewise, those implied thoughts of separateness will be overhauled. They will
either be cast out or seen in a new light.

There is a lot going on in your experience, Paul, but I must come back to the
fact that all of it is Your Self, bringing Itself into clearer focus. It is not
happening to you.

Again, I reiterate that you will be faced with demands to operate at the
three-dimensional level of separateness—of separate individualities “out
there,” vying for your attention and requiring that you operate according to
the three-dimensional systems which are called “law.“

You are correct that these are simply dinner bells aimed at turning your
attention to the specific unfoldment or enlightenment which is growing within
you, moment by moment. You are correctly discovering that you must actively
pursue your enlightenment. That simply means that you must actively and
purposefully put yourself in that Place where the enlightenment can be
discerned. You need to do this, even though the outer demands seem to require
that you get into these shallow, surface emotions and abide there in the shit
for a time, as though it had some blessing for you other than simply making you
stink.

You are managing to be sucked in more than momentarily, but I invite you to be
even more aggressive in your conviction to get into the Place where you are at
this moment.

Again, I invite you to pay attention to where you are right now, as broadly as
you are able while speaking. You will notice that you are not anxious. You will
notice that you feel perfectly capable of dealing with whatever might occur in
the next few moments. You are also aware that there are some events which could
occur which will ring your bell, so to speak, causing strong reaction of
anxiety. When we finish speaking this afternoon, I want you to stay where you
are. From this place of Peace and Cohesiveness, I want you to consider these
experiences of “anxiety attacks” and see what you can learn about their causes.
Why do you feel that it is necessary to be anxious under those circumstances?
Listen for clarification on these points.

Again, Paul, each One is responsible for his own growth. Each One is
responsible for his enlightenment. Each One is responsible for any suffering
that he seems to experience. You can in no way be responsible for any of those
things in what you call “another.” Your responsibility is to leave them free to
be that Being which you know is Your Being, since Being is One. You know what
constitutes the activity and unfoldment of Being.

Whatever they may be experiencing, no matter how hard they may cry and pull at
your heartstrings, the fact remains that you can do nothing about it. The fact
remains that they need to be up against a hard place because their own Being is
in the process of revealing as their conscious experience that they are not
bound by the hard place which confronts them.

This hard place is nothing more than the limit of some belief they are
entertaining. The pressure they feel is truly their Divine Being removing the
block. There are further implications and understandings to what I have just
said, but you can discover those for yourself.

Paul, I am aware you are afraid that, if you are true to your Self, you will
lose things which you find of value—things which you imagine are in your
experience because of certain constructive and developmental patterns of
behavior and thought. The fact remains, however, that they were not in your
experience for those reasons.

As you have enough guts to be true to your Self, you will find that you will no
longer follow those patterns. You are aware of that, and that is why you are
afraid of losing something of value. All that will be lost are the
misconceptions. You will find that the things of value will remain, because
they weren’t in your experience for the reasons you thought they were in the
first place.

I know you wrote down a lot of questions, and I know it will be very
interesting for you to learn the answers, but we are going to take things in a
very orderly fashion. And what we have just discussed is the next essential
step.

I would like for you to transcribe this conversation. Give it your
consideration for awhile this afternoon. Afterwards, I would like to have a
further conversation with you. Please see to it that you do make time this
evening for our next conversation.

In the meantime, be not afraid to be your Self. Observe to what extent you use
other people, by getting your “hooks” into them, in order to make yourself feel
that you are doing the right thing. You cannot use other people to validate
your position. The only way your position can become validated is for you to
see it fully and completely as your conscious experience. That is our objective
at this point.


