---
title: Feburary 21, 1982 Sunday Evening
---

PAUL: Raj, it is only half an hour until Monday. This is when you said that I
would be surprisingly able to cope with the demands made on me, and be able to
remain observing and experiencing my life from the standpoint of Conscious
Being. I hope you’re right. And I hope that the growth over the past three days
has been what you anticipated. I feel as though I could have done more. But, be
that as it may, you are aware that Susan is highly incensed at the things you
had to say in our conversation today. I will have to admit that her response is
bothering me.

Do you have anything to say about this situation?

RAJ: Paul, I am not here to act as a marriage counselor. I am here to act as a
Guide in your development of your ability and capacity as Fourth-dimensional
Man. In spite of what Susan might like, you are not here to cater to her
insistence on operating from a three-dimensional-only level. Actually, Susan
knows better, but she is not willing to integrate her Knowing with her Being,
and act out from that point.

You feel that she is making demands on you by her insistence to hold you to her
finite view, and pull you out from your experience of being as Conscious Being.

The fact is that you are doing well at remaining centered at the Door of your
own infinite Wisdom and Understanding. You do not need to be afraid that you
will slip.

You are learning a lesson that is difficult for you. You must let the
three-dimensional frame of reference “do its little jig” until it wears itself
out and gives up.

In the meantime, you must actively remain at the point of being as Conscious
Being. Listen attentively to Mind’s unfolding of Itself as It is, right where
it looks like the jig is going on. To paraphrase a statement you are familiar
with “You must see the Fourth-dimensional Reality right where the
three-dimensional frame of reference sees itself.” Seeing the Reality, you will
not be confused by the jig. Neither will you be moved by its claims. In order
to do this, you must be willing to stand at the Doorway where Being’s view of
Itself is what is seen.

You have the strength to do this, and you are willing. I advise you to do it
steadfastly.

In regard to tomorrow and its demands, you are already aware of things you need
to do. Do them. But do them as Conscious Being. You are getting quite
acclimated to being from that Place. Continue to do so. Take one step at a
time. Keep it simple. If it claims to be complex, keep it simple.

I want you to begin to let your experience teach you. I would like for you to
back off to one conversation a day with me. You have learned how to get into
that Place and stay there, and how to get back if you need to.

Now I want you to begin to do that. Experience the events of your day, each
day, from that environment. You will begin to find your experience explaining
itself. You will find your enlightenment to be equally as meaningful as our
many conversations have seemed to you. As you have already discovered, your
daily experience supplies you with optimum opportunity to learn about your
Self, and about the places in which you need further growth.

I am not going anywhere. I want you to give your attention to your Self as It
is living Its infinite unfoldment, and begin to find that It is an ever present
and excellent teacher.

This will leave us free to go on to other matters which need your attention. It
will also allow you to discover how everything we have been talking about
relates to your daily life. This will probably be the most valuable lesson you
will ever learn.

I see that you do not really have any other questions. I will say good night
for now, and look forward to our conversation tomorrow.


