---
title: Feburary 24, 1982 Wednesday
---

PAUL: Tonight, Raj, I am just going to let the fact that I am interested in
meeting the three men who were here yesterday—I am just going to let that
desire rest. They know it, and I know it, and I am going to drop it in the
sense of trying to cause it or help it or facilitate its occurring. I’m going
to try to get back into just doing what we were doing before—and work with you
and Almee, and anyone else who is there. And so, I’m ready.

RAJ: Good, Paul. We are going to begin this evening by going into a deeper
relaxation than you are in right now, just as we did last night. Once again, I
will remind you to remain in touch with being sensorily aware of your
surroundings, as you are experiencing them right now. I do not want you to
become unconscious of them.

PAUL: Okay.

[Period of meditation.]

Raj, although I feel I am getting into a deeper place, I feel a very strong
clutching in the area of my diaphragm. This does not strike me as the strata
you were speaking of last night and, following your suggestion, I am letting it
be clenched if it wants. If it doesn’t want, I’ll let it not want and just have
that feeling of “letting”

RAJ: Paul, that is fine. Go on.

PAUL: [Further meditation.]

Raj, here we are in nonsense land again. I am going to continue through.

I will interject that I am very happy to be able to say that both of my girls
have now established communication with their Guides. On top of that, Susan has
made contact with her Guide, and I am very happy about this.

Now I will continue.

RAJ: Thank you, Paul. And thank you for sharing that with me.

PAUL: Raj, one question: I am wondering if the purpose here is to get to that
point where I can let go absolutely, totally, and completely, and be able to
have a longer period of time than the amount that passed last night when I was
speaking but was not being responsible for any of the words? Is this point of
relaxation and giving up—letting—is this something that it would help for me to
know that we were working for, or at least to be heading in that direction?

RAJ: Paul, that will happen spontaneously. You may keep that in the back of
your mind as a goal, but do not mistake it as being the end purpose. There will
be far more avenues for us to explore beyond that. For right now, if you want
to see that as a way station experience of your Infinity and head there, please
go right ahead. As I said, it is not the final destination.

PAUL: Okay, Raj. Thank you.

[Continued meditation.]

Raj, on the one hand it feels like I am doing what I am supposed to be doing,
except this last time I did forget about paying attention to my surroundings
and staying in touch with them sensorily. But I do not feel that I am getting
anywhere yet.

RAJ: Paul, you do not have any measuring stick to use, so you have no basis for
conclusion. Please continue. You are doing just fine.

PAUL: Okay.

[Period of further meditation.]

Okay, Raj. I was doing some sort of thinking, but I am not conscious of what it
was. Then, suddenly my body was jolted, as it were, and my finger pressed down
the button on the microphone. Of course, I immediately released it. I am now
reporting to you what happened. I would have interpreted it as being the sort
of jerk that occurs sometimes as I am drifting off to sleep. Would you care to
comment?

RAJ: Paul, this was an involuntary response. I am not going to disclose what it
was at the moment. Just let it be something that you are aware of having
experienced, and let us move on.

PAUL: Okay.

[Further meditation.]

RAJ: If it happens again, attempt to flow with it.

PAUL: Alright.

[Continuation of meditation.]

Raj, would it be a good idea for me not to be quite so physically relaxed?
Should I perhaps sit up straight and have my body somewhat more awake or
attentive?

RAJ: No, Paul. I want you to be as totally relaxed as possible while still
being actively alert to everything.

PAUL: Alright, Raj.

[Further meditation.]

Raj, I am getting various and assorted thoughts relating to things in my
everyday life. I don’t know why they’re there. They seem to be activity
thoughts requiring some response from me, or some action. I am not going to pay
attention to them, but continue through.

RAJ: Very well, Paul.

[Continuation of meditation.]

PAUL: You do want me to continue into a more relaxed state, do you not?

RAJ: Yes, I do.

PAUL: Very well.

[Further meditation.]

RAJ: Let the dog bark, Paul. It is all You. Let your Self be what it is. Be
willingness itself.

[Continued meditation.]

PAUL: Raj, it seems to me I am past the jabber strata. I am continuing to have
an intent of moving, and evidently am moving, but I do not know where. And that
is alright.

RAJ: Yes, it is alright, Paul. Go right ahead.

That is good, Paul. You will do well to remember to let your facial muscles and
scalp muscles relax.

PAUL: Raj, am I actually accomplishing anything? Have I actually been doing any
growing since Monday? I don’t have any landmarks to use to tell whether I have
or not.

RAJ: Paul, you are making progress. You are becoming more naturally familiar
with where you are located, and what the signposts are of your movements into a
very deep meditative state. You are able to maintain it while being sensorily
aware of your surroundings. Our goal at the moment is to familiarize you with
yourself in this area of your Conscious Being. You will remember that early on
I told you that you would become familiar with the “inhabitants” and the
“structures” of Conscious Being. That is, indeed, what you are doing right now.

Now, I would like you to be quiet once again and be aware.

PAUL: Okay.

[Continued meditation.]

I will have to admit that it is very wonderful state of calmness and peace.

RAJ: Paul, I do not want you to talk right now. I want you to feel it. I want
you to perceive it. Do not talk away the experience by keeping your mouth
flapping like this.

PAUL: I get the picture. Thank you, Raj.

RAJ: Very good, Paul. Allow the barking. Allow it all, Let. Let. Let.

PAUL: Raj, it seems as though I am involuntarily coming back to the surface, so
to speak. Is that alright?

RAJ: That is alright. Allow it. Do not judge it. Stay with the process, and do
not pay any attention to the content unless I tell you otherwise.

PAUL: Alright, Raj. Thank you.

[Further meditation.]

RAJ: Paul, although you find yourself coming back to the surface—which simply
means you are beginning to feel normal—your point of awareness is not coming
back to the surface. It is staying right where it was. Just observe and do not
judge.

PAUL: Alright.

[Continued meditation.]

Raj, is there anyone with me in the room?

RAJ: No, Paul, there is not. If you would like to look around to verify it, you
may. Do not let your gaze, nor the focus of your attention, become impressed by
anything it sees. Do it, but keep your point of awareness as Conscious Being
placed where it is in this place that you call “mellow.“

PAUL: Alright Raj. It is not easy to keep my focal point where it is when I
open my eyes, but I shall do it slowly.

RAJ: That is a good idea, Paul.

PAUL: Raj, would you like me to attempt to keep my eyes open?

RAJ: You may attempt it for a few minutes here, but I think we will not
continue it longer than that.

PAUL: May I move some?

RAJ: As I said last night, as long as your focal point does not move to any
particular sensation you experience, but remains where it is as you move, then
you may move all you like.

PAUL: Okay, Raj. Let me know when you want me to close my eyes.

RAJ: I shall, Paul.

PAUL: Is this a form of self-hypnosis, Raj?

RAJ: No, it most definitely is not, nor is it a trance of any kind.

PAUL: Thank you, Raj. Is it worthwhile to pay attention to how my body feels
without putting my consciousness in my body?

RAJ: Go right ahead.

PAUL: Alright, Raj, would you like me to continue with this conversation period
as long as I am able this evening?

RAJ: Yes, I would.

PAUL: Very well, I shall. And during this whole time period you want me to
remain in touch with my surroundings sensorily—is that correct?

RAJ: That is exactly correct.

PAUL: Thank you.

[Further meditation.]

Raj, I find as I have taken maybe three or four minutes to observe myself, the
room, what it feels like to move, et cetera, that the meditation has slowly
become shallower. Do you want me to continue observing, or would you like me
to—what would you like me to do?

RAJ: Paul, I would like for you to stop observing yourself outwardly and begin
once again to go into a deeper meditative state.

PAUL: Very well, Raj.

[Continued meditation.]

Raj, that was a very deep meditation. I believe I lost touch with my
surroundings. At least, they were not clearly in my thought. I am simply
reporting these things to you. At this point I feel the need to discontinue for
the evening and pick up tomorrow morning at some time, if that’s alright with
you.

RAJ: That’s fine, Paul, and yes, it’s fine if we have our conversation in the
morning.

I know that you want to know if we may speak more than once tomorrow. I will
decide that when tomorrow gets here.

You may not think you are learning much. You may not think that anything is
happening at all. However, Paul, you are learning a great deal. Do not judge
from your lack of experience and lack of perspective. I tell you that you are,
indeed, learning much.

Paul, don’t worry. You are doing fine. You will learn what you need to learn.
Everything is going very well.

