---
title: Feburary 27, 1982 Saturday
---

PAUL: Raj, it occurred to me after talking with Susan this morning, that when
one person seems to have something that another would like to have for
himself—and if the one who has it involves himself in giving it to the second
person in order to help him—this inevitably creates in the second person a
feeling of inequity and a lack of ability, and doesn’t truly help him. I am
reminded of a statement that the best charity is to show a person that he
doesn’t need charity. I guess what I am questioning is the concept of a
“helper.“

In the truest sense of the word, you are not a helper, because you know exactly
what I need to learn, and help me to put myself in the position of learning it.
I am questioning the whole concept of an army of helpers or teachers. How can
they truly help, if it is not possible for them to be right there in the
individual’s consciousness of things, as you are, and able to see exactly what
needs to be brought out, so that the individual can do his own growing and find
himself out of his problem—or out of his belief, or whatever it may be—and know
that he didn’t get out of it by virtue of borrowed help?

RAJ: Paul, this is a question of deep importance. You are right that the best
help is to show the individual that he doesn’t need help. You are wondering how
it could be that Maitreya will accomplish this, and especially how individuals
such as yourself will truly be able to help in this sense.

I cannot share with you at this moment how that will be accomplished. But I
would suggest that you observe in your own experience whether or not you can
intuitively arrive at a point of being able to give that kind of help right in
your own family.

PAUL: Alright. I certainly will.

In the study of metaphysics and its practice, it has been proven that a
metaphysical treatment given over some distance does not keep healing from
occurring. It is, in fact, very successful. Can the invoking of the Law which
we have talked about from the last two occasions be utilized in much the same
way if there is someone from a distance who calls with a problem that they need
relief from?

RAJ: Yes, it works exactly the same way. You ought to utilize it whenever the
opportunity occurs, so as to become familiar with its effectiveness and begin
to develop a confidence in the operation of Principle and Love in this aspect.

PAUL: I will.

I have no other questions at the moment. I will simply ask you to please share
with me what you know needs to be dealt with.

RAJ: Very well, Paul. I want to talk to you tonight about Atlantis.

PAUL: You feel that this has some bearing on my growth at this time?

RAJ: Yes, Paul, it does.

PAUL: I am, of course, basing what I’m going to say on my prejudgments about
this subject, but I don’t see how it can have any relationship at all.

RAJ: That is not surprising.

PAUL: I am going to let go and trust that you know exactly what you are doing,
but—I’ll retract the “but”—and I will move forward with you. Before I do that,
I want to take a few minutes here and relax.

RAJ: That will be fine.

PAUL: [Period of meditation.]

RAJ: Thank you, Paul. Before I say anything, I want you to notice just exactly
to what lengths you will go—and how rapidly you will go to them—in order to
have a grasp on what I’m going to say before I’ve said it, in order to make
sure you’re not going to sound like a fool. This brings into play the element
of trust.

PAUL: [Nothing perceived.]

RAJ: Paul, this sounds very elementary, but you’re going to have to understand
that growth does not mean expansion within the same old frame of reference. It
means expansion out of it, beyond it. I know you are having difficulty trying
to classify what you are broadly perceiving of what I am saying into your
present set of categories, and that is exactly the problem I am addressing
here. You can understand it this way, Paul. As a tree grows, it cannot get
bigger and remain the same size.

PAUL: I’ve got the picture.

RAJ: Paul, what you are trying to do here is to grow, and yet have the growth
fit into the same old categorizations—the same old structure—and I am trying to
wake you up to the fact that if you are, indeed, going to grow, you have to
stop trying to fit everything into neat little cubbyholes before you’ll even
bother to repeat my words. At least, you are going to need new cubbyholes. At
the most, you will let go of cubbyholes altogether, and flow with the new
unfolding of your Being.

I don’t really want to tell you anything about Atlantis at all. But the time is
going to come when I will be telling you things that may most definitely cross
your present concepts, and I can begin to see that you are feeling more
comfortable with this whole process of our conversations and are beginning to
feel like you’ve got the whole thing pegged. That’s the beginning of the end.

Somewhere, early in our conversations, I told you that you have to be willing
to stand at the point where you know nothing, because that is what allows you
to become aware of Something. You are beginning to sit down and begin our
conversations as though you have a pretty good idea of what’s going to come
about. This is going to begin to get in the way.

The meditation exercises that we have been doing have been partly for the
purpose of helping you get to the point where you can see, from an experiential
standpoint, that when you let go of everything, infinity has an opportunity to
appear. You, yourself, have begun to find, when a subject is difficult for you
to deal with, that if you will do a meditation, it removes the resistance and
allows the communication to unfold smoothly.

I would like you to stop forming preconceptions in the first place.

Paul, we are talking about becoming the Door. The image you have in your mind
of the Door is, indeed, accurate. It is a doorway, and there isn’t a single
door attached to it. And yet, you have begun to come to these conversations
ready to close a door—that shouldn’t even be there in the first place—if what
you are hearing can’t be quickly classified, judged, and decided upon before
you get the first word out of your mouth.

PAUL: I am sorry, Raj.

RAJ: You see, Paul, growth isn’t just a matter of becoming bigger, or of
enjoying a more expansive understanding of your Being. It also includes a more
mature way of dealing with that information. All of you grows when growth
occurs.

I am not going to say any more about this at the moment. I want you to type it
up before you leave in the morning. I want you to take it with you and refer to
it and think about it before we talk again, after you return tomorrow.

You have been wondering at various times the last few days whether I am with
you around the clock as I said I would be a while back. The answer is, yes,
Paul, I am with you constantly, from your point of view. The reason is that
this is a somewhat delicate time for you, simply because the major shifts that
you are experiencing need the availability of instant reinforcement and
support, in order to make the transition smooth and secure and solid. You may
rest assured that you are not alone.

PAUL: thank you, Raj.

