---
title: Feburary 28, 1982 Sunday
---

PAUL: Raj, I want to apologize for last night, and I want to thank you for very
kindly pointing out to me the trap I was falling into. I think that tonight I
am here, and you can talk about any old thing you want, and I will be able to
flow with it. At least that is my desire and my willingness.

RAJ: I knew you would get the point, Paul. Thank you.

Tonight we are going to talk about Atlantis.

PAUL: [Pause.] Did I read you correctly. Raj?

RAJ: Yes. I want to talk about Atlantis.

PAUL: Very well.

RAJ: Paul, there was, indeed, at one time, an island by the name of Atlantis.
The people on this island had developed to a very high point of civilization.
This was achieved because of their inner development to the point of being as
Fourth-dimensional Man—exactly in the same way that you are growing right now.

The problem was that—and don’t conceptualize now—there was an imbalance in the
vibrations between their island and the rest of the world. It precluded them
from being able to correlate or harmonize with the vast majority of people
beyond their island, so different was the rate of vibration.

As a result of this difference of rate of vibration, a series of harmonic
dissonance’s became generated at subsonic frequencies, which resulted in a
physical displacement along a fault line of their island, which sank into the
sea.

There were no survivors.

As you know, hearsay has it that the island of Atlantis is in the process of
rising again. but unlike your concept that such an event will have no value for
you or modern day man, it will, indeed, have great value. The artifacts which
will be unearthed will verify and substantiate the “chain of scientific being”
which Mrs. Eddy spoke of in “Science and Health”.[^1]

You see, Paul, the evolution of the earth, of mankind, on the planet, has been
going on for centuries. The presence of the Christ has occurred many times in
different names and nationalities and teachings—always within the framework of
what could be understood at the time by the people being addressed.

This happened in the case of the civilization which developed on Atlantis.

The reason the reemergence of the island will be of exceeding, great
significance to the world today, is that the Atlaneans were the first
civilization, as a whole, to enter into that Place as Conscious Being, as
Fourth-dimensional Man. The artifacts which will be found will serve to be the
nail holes and spear wound which the doubting Thomas’s of the early decades or
centuries of the Age of Aquarius will find resolving their doubts into
Understanding. It will be “ancient objective proof” which will settle once and
for all, for them, the actuality of the fact that Maitreya is, indeed, the
reappearing of the Christ.

The reemergence of the island, through further geographic displacement, will
occur harmoniously and without causing great earthquakes and tidal waves. it
will not happen soon, but it will happen. And these transcripts of our
conversations will take their place in some way, further validating for those
doubting Thomas’s the actuality about which they are in doubt.

We will talk about this again at a later time, and I thank you for letting go
of your prejudicial concepts and being willing to transcribe what I needed to
say.

For the time being, that is all I will say about the subject. I simply want it
on record. I do not want you trying to figure out smart questions to ask me
about it in order to surreptitiously learn more. Let it lay.

PAUL: Very well, Raj, I will. Are you saying that I should find no significance
in what you have just said, other than it has now been transcribed?

RAJ: That is correct. It bears no relation to you at this time, nor will it.
This is just a matter of record.

PAUL: Very well.

RAJ: Paul, I know you have had a very full day. I know that it meant a lot to
you to spend this time with your family. And whether you are aware of it or
not, it meant a very great deal to your children to have you playing with them
and participating with them in their level of activity, and it was good.

I will say good night for now, and I will look forward to speaking with you in
the morning.

[^1]: Eddy, Mary Baker, Science and Health, v.271;1-5.

