---
title: March 1, 1982 Monday Evening
---

PAUL: Today is a day of questions.

RAJ: I know, Paul.

PAUL: I guess, first of all, there’s something I need to get straight.

RAJ: Go ahead, Paul.

PAUL: Talking with anyone like this, whether simply a Guide or a Master, is, to
say the least, quite out of the ordinary for me.

RAJ: I understand, Paul.

PAUL: Because it is out of the ordinary, and I don’t know of many people to
whom this is happening, it allowed me to feel like it was something special.
And then, although I didn’t think it made a substantial difference, when I
found out that you were a Master, that information lent itself to my feeling
that this experience with you was special. In addition to that, to find out
that your work involves the return of Maitreya and the Masters also contributed
to my feeling that there was something out of the ordinary in our
communications. At least the potential was there.

As I said the other day, this seems to make matters more complicated than if I
were simply working with a Guide and nothing unusual was going on other than
this kind of communication. I would like some help in getting perspective on
this.

RAJ: Thank you, Paul. I will endeavor to clarify things for you.

First of all, the manner in which I became your Guide was absolutely normal.
The fact that I am a Master was pure happenstance, and simply means that I am
further along in my own development than a Guide would be. The fact that my
work involves the reappearing of the Christ and the Masters is of no
consequence to you. It is simply information which I have shared with you about
my activities, and that is all.

Remember, Paul, you were not “picked” for this experience of communicating with
a Guide, whether a Master or not. Now happens to be the time when you opened
yourself up, and requested that your Guide contact you. I cannot help it that
you picked a time to do this which coincides with a worldwide event of some
import. That is pure coincidence.

However, because it is going to occur, you are going to have to deal with it in
order to maintain your equilibrium and remain clear as to your own inner
unfolding of your Being. And so, we are discussing it. If there were some other
major world event which would involve you in any way, we would be discussing
that.

Let me state that primarily I am working with you because you have requested a
Guide to work with you. I am “it” as far as you are concerned at this time.
First and last, I am working with you on your behalf, and that is all there is
to it.

PAUL: Thank you, Raj. In this afternoon’s conversation, you indicated that we
are within days of the Second Appearing. Since then, I have found that Mr.
Creme did not say that the reappearing would occur during the month of March,
but rather in late spring. I am not here to quibble over your statement as
opposed to his statement, although I am curious.

RAJ: Paul, it is good to get the air cleared. The simple fact is that Mr. Creme
is wrong, and I will say nothing more than that. You will simply have to watch
and see.

PAUL: When you said that we were within days of the Second Appearing, were you
referring to the announcement of Maitreya of His presence and His purpose?

RAJ: No, I was not.

PAUL: Then I am confused. Are you playing word games with me?

RAJ: I most definitely am not, Paul.

PAUL: Then, in what respect is Mr. Creme wrong?

[Nothing perceived.]

RAJ: Paul, there is, indeed, need for clarification here. Let go here and just
be open. Do not try to grasp ahead of time what I might be going to say.

PAUL: Alright.

RAJ: The star heralding the birth of Jesus rose over a state of unenlightened
thought, leading that thought to the place where the Christ Child lay in human
experience. Conceptually speaking, you can see that it was not possible for the
people of that time or land to perceive the dawning within their consciousness
of the existence of the Christ-consciousness in any other than the smallest
way—something brand new, but something small. And the appearing of the
Christ-consciousness took a very literal form for them. They could not conceive
that it was themselves, so it had to be someone else, someone else new and
small. And so, the baby, Jesus, was a very literal manifestation of the only
way in which they could conceive of the appearance of the Christ in their
world.

In the present day, the awareness of the Christ-consciousness is no longer new.
Indeed, there is a large part of the population—Christian, Buddhist, Hindu, et
cetera—who are quite at the point of recognizing that the Christ-consciousness
resides within them. And this is where it will come to pass that the
reappearing of the Christ will occur.

Stop trying to figure it out, Paul.

It is obvious that the literal manifestation of the level of the development of
mankind today would not be conceptualized as a brand new baby. Instead, it
would be an adult facilitator of that inner Self-discovery which will actually
constitute the reappearance of the Christ.

You must realize that the majority of mankind is not at this conscious point of
Self-realization. They are, nevertheless, at the point of recognizing their
Divinity. It is for this reason that an adult will appear. This adult will meet
the requirements that will allow them to pay attention and give credence to the
appearance.

You must realize that there are all states and stages of individual inner
development represented by mankind as a whole. All will see their Christhood
according to whatever level of enlightenment or belief they find themselves at.
But, notwithstanding their level of enlightenment or belief, the graduation of
mankind will occur.

The degree of enlightenment/belief each one is at will govern the degree to
which Maitreya will have followers or co-workers. Those who are enlightened
will continue to pursue their own inner, unfolding Self-discovery. As that
growth takes place, they will become co-facilitators in one form or another,
working shoulder to shoulder with Maitreya. They will not be blinded by what He
is, because they will recognize that He is what They are, and that They are
what He is to some degree.

Mr. Creme is incorrect about the time of the reappearing, in that the
reappearing has been going on for some time. It will continue far past the time
when Maitreya announces His presence.

I know you must go to dinner now. We will continue as soon as you return.

PAUL: Thank you, Raj.

[Dinner break taken. During the dinner break, Susan and I read and discussed
parts of both Mr. Creme’s book and the Treatise on Cosmic Fire.

RAJ: Paul, I know that since you have gone to dinner, you have frustrated
yourself to an even higher degree than when you left. I know that you are
arriving at a place where you couldn’t care less whether Maitreya returned or
not. Correct?

PAUL: Absolutely correct.

RAJ: The conclusion that you are coming to is correct. The only appearance of
the Christ that is worth a hill of beans for you is that dawning in your own
experience of your own perception of Reality. It comes as the result of being
the Door. It literally doesn’t matter one way or the other whether Maitreya
returns or not. On this point you are absolutely correct.

Paul, you are the one who was interested in the idea of Maitreya returning and
what impact the return might have on your life. You were interested in finding
out whether or not you might have some part to play in that return—with all the
implications of position, prestige, and power.

The fact is that very often the quickest way to show a person that he doesn’t
want what he says or thinks he wants is to give him what he wants. And so, I
have played along with you until you are sick and tired of what it would mean
for you to constantly have to relate to someone “out there”—whether his name is
Maitreya or not.

Paul, let the world have its own development in whatever way it most clearly
can experience its growth. Remember that this world that is experiencing its
growth—in the apparent drama of the reappearance of the Christ and the Masters
of Wisdom—is the infinitude of your Self. One way or another, you are going to
have to come to terms with that fact without selling your Self short.

There are groups of people actively participating in attempting to pave the way
for His return, but this is not where you are. This is not your point of
unfoldment. To whatever degree you think they may be doing something more
correct than what you are doing, to that degree you are disintegrating your
experience of your Self as the One that constitutes the Many. If you try to
make comparisons or cross-references to attempt to validate or invalidate what
is going on with you, you will lose your awareness of your cohesiveness.

Your gut-level feeling of frustration and anger is just a small taste of the
suffering that will be in store for you, if you attempt to move back into a
three-dimensional frame of reference.

It doesn’t matter what day the announcement of Maitreya’s return is made on. It
doesn’t matter by what means, or for what purpose, you and Susan are receiving
an influx of inspiration and enlightenment—whether you’re awake, asleep, in
meditation, or flying a kite. The fact is that no matter what is going on
anywhere else in the world, you are experiencing the inexorable unfolding of
your Being as Conscious Being. You might as well accept it.

Now, tomorrow morning when you get up, take care of your everyday activities.
But, before you do them, or have a conversation with me, I want you to get into
that Place where you are being as Conscious Being, as Fourth-dimensional Man.
Then, from that point, take care of the things that need to be taken care of.
Then, when you have completed those, if you would like to converse with me, I
will look forward to talking with you. In the meantime, for God’s sake, let go
of all this folderol and get back to the point of being the Door.

I can promise you this: So long as you are seeking position, power, prestige,
by virtue of association with the Masters or Maitreya—no matter how subtly—They
will not come near you with a ten-foot pole. The only reasons that the three
gentlemen were present at all was because at that point you were truly being
the Presence of the Christ. Paul, “person” was nowhere to be found.

Learn this lesson well, and you will move forward with great ease. Continue in
the frame of reference you are presently indulging in, and you will be sorry.

I know that you are not presently experiencing my presence with what you
recognize as a feeling of Love. Nonetheless, Paul, it is time for your concept
of Love to be broadened. It is time for you to realize that Love is “whatever
it takes to bring forth the Reality, right where the belief insists on being.”
With that I will say good night for now, and I will look forward to speaking
with you tomorrow.

PAUL: [Pause.]

RAJ: Say “good night,” Paul.

PAUL: Good night, Raj. And thank you.

