---
title: March 1, 1982 Monday Afternoon
---

PAUL: I am having the feeling that there is a need for things to come into
focus here. I understand that could simply mean that I am sensing the fact that
things are coming into focus—sensing a gathering of energies so to speak.

RAJ: Go on, Paul.

PAUL: Okay. I turned the calendar this morning and saw that it is March 1. This
is the first day of the month in which Mr. Creme has stated that the
reappearance of the Christ will occur. There is a feeling on my part of big
things happening.

I am aware that we seem to be in limbo, in that I am literally unemployed in
the world’s terms. There is no apparent sense of direction other than the one
of my conversing with you and doing an incredible amount of growing.

Susan, herself, is experiencing a great influx of enlightenment, but other than
that—which is not insignificant—there doesn’t seem to be an adequate resolution
of the school situation, of our living situation, or of our financial
situation. It is like being on the outskirts of life, three-dimensionally
speaking.

There seems to be a sense of isolation, of being out of sync, of not fitting
in, and that brings along with it a feeling for a need to fit in some way. Yet,
nothing has unfolded to do—other than what I am doing at this very moment and
have been doing for the last three weeks.

RAJ: Paul, the clanging cymbals of time are ringing their last clangs. You are
feeling a habitual desire to feel “normal” when “what is normal” is changing.
It simply doesn’t exist that way any more, even though others whom you see
appear to be going about their daily activities as though nothing unusual is
occurring.

We are within days of the Second Appearing. I cannot relieve you by telling you
that you do need to go out and get a job, since there will not be a job of that
kind existing for you any more. You have been willing to trust me so far, with
great willingness. I ask you to be patient for a short time longer. Continue as
you have been doing, remaining in that Place where you are experiencing your
universe as Conscious Being. I know this is not easy. I am not testing you, nor
will you suffer in the slightest by doing so.

PAUL: Raj, have I been subconsciously supplied with knowledge during my
meditations or at night while I am asleep? I have the distinct feeling that
there is activity going on of which I am not consciously aware.

RAJ: Yes, Paul. Both you and Susan are receiving background information, you
might say, underlying concepts and knowledge which you will find that you
possess as time goes on. You will find that you will apparently “remember”
something that you “heard” before, and this knowledge will come into play in
your experience in a most innocuous, unobservable way as it fulfills Purpose.

Go ahead, Paul, and ask your question.

PAUL: Will I meet Maitreya before His announcing of His return?

RAJ: No, Paul, you will not, unless for some reason His plans change. There is
not that much time, and He is quite busy taking care of matters on a more
worldwide scale in preparation for His announcement.

PAUL: Very well. What about the three gentlemen that were here?

RAJ: Paul, I know you are still looking for some specific, objective evidence
to totally prove the fact that all of this is valid. Paul, it will happen in
its own time, and you must be patient. The formation of voluntary trust on your
part is still in the development stage. The need at this time is for you to
persist in this process because you feel it is right.

PAUL: Thank you, Raj. I guess one of the most difficult parts of all this is
that, in effect, what I am being required to do feels like becoming a puppet. I
feel that I am not being self-directed, but am becoming a part of the flow of
something far larger than my awareness of myself.

I find myself questioning, from the standpoint of a gut-level, non-conceptual
feeling, whether this is “right.” Yet, by the same token, I find that by
relinquishing my awareness of myself as a separate identity with a will of its
own, there is this tremendous influx of understanding and enlightenment,
together with a greater experience of peace, which seems far more valid than
any sense of relaxation I have experienced before.

RAJ: Paul, I realize this is a difficult shift to make, especially since the
concept of “individuality” has been so prized—the concept of the “self-made
man,” et cetera. I can only suggest Paul, nothing more, that you take a look
within your Self. Ask your Self whether the way you have been living for the
last two and a half years, as an “individual,” brought with it anything of the
sort that you are experiencing now, after having relinquished your
“individuality.” I ask you to seriously consider which you find more
satisfying, and I suggest you literally make a choice.

I want you to ask yourself in which case you truly were a puppet. If you find
that in both cases you feel like a puppet, then I ask you to consider who the
Puppeteer is.

Paul, I know I am relentless with you on these points, but if I were not, you
would not make the shift. Yet the shift must be made. The shift must be made,
because it is the unfoldment of your Being, and because it is the unfoldment in
a more universal aspect—it is a change line for your world. It is the age old
question of whom you are going to serve. The question is being put before you
by your very own Being.

Do not mistake what is happening and feel that it is I who is making these
demands. I am bound to support only that which your Being is bringing to the
level of your conscious experience. I can only help facilitate you in
overcoming your ingrained fears, and your habits and patterns of limited
thought. I cannot make you give them up. I cannot make you drop them. And, I
cannot make you make the shift.

You will make it, come hell or high water, because that is where your Being is.
But, if you are willing to continue to follow the leadings of your own “upward,
individual convictions,“[^1] as Mrs. Eddy so beautifully put it, then you will
continue to experience this shift with no more dissonance or suffering than you
have so far. It is finally up to you.

Once again, I am going to make this a short conversation, so as to set it off
clearly and distinctly. I want you to consider it before we speak again.

Good afternoon, Paul.

[^1]: Eddy, Mary Baker, Unity of Good v.5;9-13.

