---
title: March 6, 1982 Saturday Morning 
---

PAUL: Good morning, Raj.

RAJ: Good morning, Paul.

PAUL: I believe that the way is cleared for us to spend the majority of this
weekend working together, and I am looking forward to it.

RAJ: I am too, Paul.

PAUL: Raj, unless some particular questions come to mind, I am going to let you
lead the way this weekend.

RAJ: Thank you, Paul. I want to begin right now with what you are going to be
faced with. We are going to cover a number of things which will all deal with
the appearing of the Christ in your consciousness as your Consciousness of
Being. This will be essential in order for you to function cohesively as the
All One that you are.

You see, the Christ-consciousness is that consciousness of things which
embraces the Totality of Being as It Actually Is, consciously. It is that which
sees and experiences the Reality of all appearances, because It does not have
Its attention focused on them—but rather on that Awareness which is Mind being
Aware of Itself. Mind sees from the inside, as it were.

Right now, you are seeing from the inside. Although you do not see me with your
eyes, and do not hear me with your ears, you are, indeed, perceiving me and the
ideas which I am expressing. You are perceiving the meanings which my Being is
expressing at that point of my infinitude which is called “Paul.” The five
physical senses play no part in this exchange or process, and yet the process
is Actual and experienced.

As I said yesterday, observe the process of communication that we are enjoying.
As you do, you will begin to grasp the process by which you may communicate
with and understand the meaning of any and all parts of the infinitude of your
Being, whether it is visible or invisible to the five physical senses.
Everything about this process of communication illustrates and includes lessons
to be learned and understood.

Paul, the three-dimensional frame of reference is very much like the image on a
motion picture screen. Where it appears to be full of meaning it, nevertheless,
remains an image no more than a fraction of a millimeter thick on the surface
of the screen. The meaning is not in the image at all, but is supplied within
the awareness of the observer.

If the observer dislikes something appearing on the screen, it is foolish for
him to attempt to change the image in any way, because the meanings which he
would like to alter are within him.

What is faulty with that illustration is that, in a theatre, there is a
projector—separate from the screen and the observer—which is projecting the
picture on the screen. In Reality there is not a third aspect called a
“projector,” which places the image on another aspect called a “screen.” In
Reality, all three aspects are constituted of the one conscious experience of
Being.

Stop trying to figure it out, Paul.

The process of “observing” is the Conscious Function of Mind. That which is
being “observed” is Mind’s Universal Function of being Conscious Being. In
other words, Being—Mind—by being, projects or manifests Itself, and is the
Observing of the Process. It is the projector, the image, and the observing of
it.

The more you learn to be out from Mind—rather than believing that you are some
part of the image on the screen—the more you will become aware of the total
harmony of the total process or function that constitutes your Being. What you
apparently do, and what apparently is done to you, will become apparent as
being totally harmonious. There will be no sense or experience of separation,
lack, division, or opposition.

The conscious experience of Being is all that is going on. The details, the
drama, the story line, et cetera, are incidental to the whole Process.

When observing them from the position of the image, we seem to be trapped into
the story line. But, as we leave that position for the standpoint of being as
Conscious Being, we apparently gain perspective. The story line appears to
change and identify the Universal Harmonies of Being, which we could not see
when we thought that we were one of the characters on the screen. It is in this
process of leaving the basis of the image and uniting with and as the One Mind
that the Reality of things begins to appear. This is why we have taken the last
four weeks to effect this change of view. It is time for you to stop operating
from the dimension of the image, and to begin functioning as Fourth-dimensional
Man, being out from Mind.

Until you thoroughly understand that nothing occurs at the point of the
“image”—the three-dimensional frame of reference—until you realize that Cause
does not reside at that point, out of habit you will be inclined to continue to
try to rearrange things on the screen, to try to improve them, to try to make
them more comfortable. And this will be a waste of time.

As I said, Paul, we will take this in short steps this weekend. I would like
for you to stop and transcribe what we have said so far, and then let us
continue without your taking a break to share this with Susan.

I shall be talking with you shortly.

PAUL: Yes, Raj. Thank you very much.


