---
title: March 8, 1982 Monday 
---

PAUL: Good morning, Raj.

RAJ: Good morning, Paul.

PAUL: Well, I don’t know if my faith is being tested, or what. But I am feeling
weak and thrown for a loop this morning. To be blunt about it, I don’t know
what I’m going to do, or what I’m supposed to do. The demands are overwhelming
and they are not going away.

RAJ: Paul, this is excellent!

PAUL: Am I understanding you correctly?

RAJ: Yes, Paul, you are. This is excellent news.

PAUL: Raj, sometimes you blow my mind. In what way can this be excellent?

RAJ: It is excellent because it is proving to you that what you think you have
to do is coming face to face with what you have to do.

PAUL: I don’t understand. I understand the words, but I don’t understand how
they apply or how it could be excellent.

RAJ: Paul, it is not hard.

PAUL: Please continue.

RAJ: You see, Life—your Being—is preparing a feast for you, but not in the
direction in which your vision is directed at the moment.

PAUL: Obviously, then, the next question is: In what direction should I have my
gaze directed?

RAJ: In the direction which we have been working on, and which you have been
experiencing for the last four weeks.

PAUL: But Raj, it hasn’t been doing any good!

RAJ: You are incorrect, Paul. You are not able to see the good it has done,
because you insist on looking in the wrong place. You insist on looking “out
there,” rather than remaining solidly, steadfastly, and faithfully at that
within point which you call the Place.

PAUL: This feast that is being prepared—do you mean that it is actually being
prepared in the sense of not yet being completed? Or do you mean it in the
sense that it is already completed and is there for me to discern?

RAJ: Paul, I mean it both ways. All of you is always present. Yet, in that
omnipresent Action of your Being, there are cycles—cycles of time and cycles of
growth. This is why I referred to the “fitness of time” the other day. I
indicated that you must wait until the fitness of time in order to discern and
understand what is happening here.

PAUL: Raj, I am having trouble with that, since in Infinity and Eternity there
is no such thing as “time” as I perceive it three-dimensionally. It is all the
Eternal Now.

RAJ: You are correct, Paul. All of you is always present, and all of you is
always functioning in the Omnipresent Now. There is no such thing as progress
on a time line, in the sense of moving from a point in the present to another
point in the future. Nevertheless, there is the nonspatial Omnipresent
Unfolding of Being.

If you will stop resisting this idea, you will be able to hear and understand
what I have to say with greater ease, and I would suggest that you relax on
that subject.

PAUL: [Telephone interruption.]

Raj, that was a call from someone who wants past due monies for a violin we are
renting for our daughter. I told her I would return her call later this
afternoon, after I had a chance to look at my books. I was stalling for time in
hopes that during our conversation, we would come to some understanding that
would allow me to deal with these calls that I am faced with.

Raj, I am going to ask a straightforward question. I need an answer on it. It
was mentioned to me by someone who is in contact with her Guide that it has
been a long time since he was living here on earth. Consequently, the Guide is
somewhat out of touch with the way things are here at this time. He sometimes
does not grasp the things that are necessary for us to deal with here and,
therefore, is not able to be realistic about what needs to be done from day to
day.

RAJ: Paul, in the first place, I am not viewing you, or experiencing you, by
remote control through the vast outreaches of space. I am, as you have been
aware, present within your conscious experience of things. I see what you see.
I know first-hand what you think and feel about what you see. And, I am aware
of the total picture. As I said in the beginning: I know how things appear to
you, and I know how things actually are. This is why I can tell you to sit
still, and be patient, and not be worried that you will come to some harm as a
result of that instruction.

I am not some individuality hanging around the earth realm in an attempt to
find somebody to help so that I can feel my existence is worthwhile. Other than
that, I will make no further comment in response to your friend’s understanding
of how things are.

I know you have things that need to be taken care of today. Make the car
payment. Make the calls that you need to make at this point—the ones you have
already planned on making. Do it without investing your Self in any single
action that you appear to be doing.

Before you do that, please type up this conversation and review it. Finish
those things which you know you need to do and have the money for. Make the
necessary phone calls. Then, before you attempt to tackle dealing with the
things you are not able to pay for, I want you to get back with me.

I want you to be aware that between now and the time you get back with me, you
will be receiving considerable help from my end. I want you to leave your
thought wide open for fresh thoughts and insight.

I reiterate that you are not faced with the end of the world, and this is not
the final exam. It is, you might say, a quiz, but it is one that you are well
prepared for. You do not need to be concerned.

PAUL Alright Raj. I will do that.

RAJ: Thank you. You will not regret it.


