---
title: March 9, 1982 Tuesday 
---

PAUL: Good morning Raj.

RAJ: I know you have had a rough time since we talked yesterday, and it is not
my intent or purpose for you to be uncomfortable or suffering. You were
incorrect yesterday when it occurred to you that the only way you can tell you
are growing is if you are feeling some discomfort. Discomfort can be an
indication of growth, but it is not the only indication of growth.

We are entering a new phase of these conversations, and in this phase we are
going to be dealing with the Light energy that constitutes your Being.

Before we get into the questions that you have, I would appreciate it if you
would bear with me and listen to what I have to say.

PAUL: Very well, Raj.

RAJ: Paul, all energy is Light, and Light is the omnipresent energy that
constitutes all life forms, all ideas, and all of every aspect of Conscious
Being. it is the pure Light that is Love. It is the pure Light that constitutes
Substance. It is the pure Light which differentiates Itself according to
Intelligence as all that appears and all that is.

PAUL: [Whereupon I experienced a number of visual images which Raj said to
ignore.]

RAJ: The delight of Life is the signal which indicates the successful
completion or Awakening in individual thought. This is because it indicates the
amalgamation or connection of the Alpha and Omega—the inside and the
outside—the spiritual and material—the Fourth Dimension with the first three as
Conscious Experience.

I know that this is very difficult for you to put up with, because you feel
there are more pressing needs, but if you will bear with me a little longer, it
will be worth your while.

PAUL: Very well, Raj.

RAJ: This Light energy, which is constituted of the Christ-consciousness—God’s
view of Himself—is what constitutes your consciousness and your experience,
Totally and Completely. You must understand that there is nothing else going
on—no other Presence but this Light. It is the Light of Living Love.

Paul, it is impossible for your world to become integrated if you do not
understand what the Substance of that Totality is. This is why we are
discussing this point this morning. The only Substance there is throughout the
Universe—and throughout all dimensions—is Light. This Light, in Its various
aspects, is Life, Truth, Principle, Mind, Soul, and Spirit. It is also
Intelligence and Substance.

In everything you do, I want you to begin to be conscious of this idea that all
there is to you—and all there is to everything—is this Light of Living Love.
There are not two things going on. This Light is eternally living Itself as the
intelligent expression of Conscious Experience, universally and specifically.

Now, I want to correct a misconception on your part. Your ability to reason and
think is not the equivalent of the three-dimensional frame of reference. Your
thought processes and reasoning processes are not to be ignored. We would not
be communicating at this very moment if you did not have the means to translate
the meanings I am communicating into words and phrases. It is only by virtue of
the fact that you have imagination, reason, perspicacity—all of the various
capacities and functions of Consciousness—that you are able to correctly
translate that which unfolds to you. This is true whether it is coming from me,
or from that Place wherein you directly experience the Reality of Being.

We run into trouble when we stand away from the Door, and begin our thinking or
thought processes from their standpoint, and then extrapolate and come to
conclusions without going within and being as Conscious Being.

You see, Being unfolds Itself as meaning, not as language. It is through the
function of Reason and Imagination that language is brought into play, for the
purpose of verbalizing these infinite meanings which Being is unfolding.

You do have a right to answers which will identify the Absolute Oneness of
Being throughout your entire experience of Being.

Now, I am going to suggest that you transcribe what we have considered so far.
Then, I am going to suggest that you sit down and go into that Place and
consider each question that you were going to bring to me. Be open and
receptive to the meanings which will unfold, and let your conscious ability to
reason, extrapolate, ad verbalize come into play. After you are through, I
would like to speak with you.

Good morning, Paul.

PAUL: Good morning, Raj.


