---
title: March 10, 1982 Wednesday Midnight 
---

PAUL: Tonight I am frustrated, and I am also a little depressed.

RAJ: Go ahead, Paul.

PAUL: &hellip;and I realize that lately it seems like all I’m doing is
complaining, or saying I don’t understand, or being concerned because nothing
is working. I hate to lay that all in your lap all the time. When these
conversations first began, I thought that I was going to begin to understand
something that I didn’t understand—something which would help me see my
experience begin to be constructive, forward-moving, and harmonious. This has
not happened. And I guess I have a whole lot of different feelings: angry,
hopeless, hopeful, discouraged, and so on.

It seems a little incredible to me that these conversations can occur—which is
really far out—but that something as simple as being able to pay my bills
doesn’t seem to be possible. It’s sort of like being able to send man to the
moon, but not be able to feed everybody right here on earth, you know. At the
risk of being disrespectful, “Big Deal!”

RAJ: I understand what you’re saying, Paul.

PAUL: Raj, can you tell me why it would be indicative of the omnipresence and
omniaction of my Being for us to have to declare bankruptcy, and for the people
to whom we owe money to be out that money that is rightfully theirs?

RAJ: No, I cannot, Paul. You see, Paul, we are not working conceptually at all,
here.

PAUL: You’ve lost me Raj. What do you mean we’re not working conceptually at
all? What relevance does that have to the fact that I have about $400 to my
name, and at least four times that much that needs to go out just to pay the
current month’s bills? People are not willing to wait much longer for it.

RAJ: It has a direct bearing, an exact bearing, on it. You are trying to make
everything fit into your concept of what is right, instead of simply flowing
with What Is. You are so busy reacting to your own thought structures and
concepts, and how things look to you, that you are not able to perceive what is
really taking place. It is not destructive or unprincipled in any way.

PAUL: Raj, is there any way, while I am sleeping tonight, for me to get some
help on this—some background information, or something which will help me to
understand this point—when I am not in a conscious position to resist it or
block it with my fears and conceptual thinking?

RAJ: I will, indeed, work with you tonight to clear debris and unnecessary
garbage which stands in the way.

PAUL: I will truly appreciate that very much. To tell you the truth, I can see
that I am beginning to panic somewhat here, and I don’t like that feeling.

RAJ: Paul, do not resist that feeling, but simply do not invest too much
attention in it. You can move away from it, where you will not be reached by
the apparent dynamics of its meaning. Even if it does not appear to resolve
anything from your present point of view, you will, nevertheless, be in the
best position possible to have the answer be revealed as your conscious
experience. I will ask you to do that this evening before you go to sleep, in
preparation for the work we will do while you are sleeping.

PAUL: Very well, I will do that, Raj.

I will say good night for now, and speak with you in the morning.

RAJ: Very well, Paul. Good night, and be aware that I will be working together
with you all night tonight.

PAUL: Thank you very much Raj. Good night.

RAJ: Good night, Paul.

