---
title: March 15, 1982 Monday 
---

PAUL: Good morning, Raj.

RAJ: Good morning, Paul. I am glad to hear from you this morning. I know
yesterday was a rugged day for you, as it also was for Susan.[^1]

PAUL: I do not understand why it was necessary. However, I do not want to dwell
on that level or in those feelings.

RAJ: It will be well if you don’t, Paul. You see, you have not been flowing
with What Is. Instead, you have become increasingly aggressive in your attempt
to make things fit within your present concepts, even though those concepts are
moral, righteous, and upright. You are assuming that if you let go of this
control, what will happen will not be moral, just, and upright.

Paul, there is only one thing going on. That one thing is the Life Principle
Itself, which constitutes Your Being. It is not necessary for you, as a person,
to duplicate what your Being is already being. I know you are having difficulty
relating that to your experience, since it appears that everyone is demanding
that you, as a mortal, respond to and fulfill these demands.

The fact remains that as you let go in those other areas, just as you are doing
right now while talking with me, the fullness will flow and be recognized by
you—the fullness of your Being, that is.

It is not your prerogative to decide how someone else’s fulfillment will
apparently manifest itself. Your responsibility is entirely to being in that
Place where your Being may fulfill Itself without Paul, person, duplicating or
manipulating or meddling in the picture.

You don’t have control, and have never had control as a person—as a thinking
mind—whereas your Being has always had complete Control in Its Self-expression.
It will forever continue to do so.

Nothing has ever happened as a result of your thought. You must get used to the
idea that your thinking mind is there to give words to the unfolding meanings
which your Being is manifesting as Its infinite identification. It is not
something which can be used to cause that infinite manifestation of Its
identification.

You are having difficulty because you are trying to bring your “thought
processes,” which you have mistakenly identified as “your self,” into that
Place where your Self is already being Itself infinitely and perfectly. In this
Place, there is no thought process whatsoever.

The need here is to let go of the thought process, which you are already rather
proficient at, as well as the misidentification of your self as that thought
process. You are that Mind which functions perfectly and infinitely without
thinking a thought in order to do so. This Mind has, as one of Its capacities,
the ability to formulate verbalizations of Its infinite Self-action. Yet, It is
never in Its verbalizations, and never mistakes Itself as being the “thought
process” by which means the verbalizations are developed.

Verbalizations are finite means of describing That Which Is—and Is
infinitely—and, therefore, cannot be in any way circumscribed by the
verbalizations.

Do not fret yourself. That action is a thought-process action based on a sense
of limitation, and, therefore, a finite reaction to a finite process can only
compound this sense. Again, do not attempt to do anything to that finite
experience. Also, do not invest yourself in that experience. Rather, pass by or
sink out of that particular experience or thought.

You think that because I am not talking to you about “money” or “actions in the
three-dimensional frame of reference,” that I am not responding to your need.
You think that you are not receiving help for the very situation which prompted
you to contact me in the first place. But the fact is that the realization of
what I am sharing with you is the only Answer to the need.

If you feel that you must respond to the need as though it were Actual, I
certainly cannot stop you. Whatever you do can only serve to verify that,
ultimately, you will have to come to the Answer in order to be relieved of the
continuing illusion of lack.

Whatever you do, lean to the best of your ability on your Intuition. I know you
feel rather shaken at the moment, but this will pass.

PAUL: Thank you, Raj.

RAJ: You are welcome, Paul. Do not try to avoid anything at this point.
Everything that seems to be going on is fitting perfectly into its place in
serving to move, guide, and illustrate to you experientially the Eternal Facts
of Your Being. If you will listen for their meanings as Self meanings, you will
begin to enjoy a fruition of understanding, as well as abundance, that exceeds
anything you have imagined.

I continue to be with you constantly. My purpose has not changed in any way,
and you have my full support.

PAUL: Thank you, Raj. I will continue.

[^1]: The 14th came and went—no announcement, no gentleman at our door, nothing. We were greatly disappointed and frustrated. I did not bring the subject up again.

Sometime in May or June, Raj brought it up and explained that it was an object
lesson; that it was the most effective means of getting me to stop looking
outside my Self for either the Christ (Maitreya) or my answer. He explained
that as long as I was looking “out there” for my Good, I would stand waiting,
unfulfilled, as we had on the 14th.

I got the message!

