---
title: March 19, 1982 Friday 
---

PAUL: Before we begin, Raj, I sincerely apologize for cursing you out this
afternoon.

RAJ: I understand, Paul, and although it was not necessary, I accept your
apology.

PAUL: Raj, as you know, nothing has apparently changed since the first
conversation we had—objectively, at least—although subjectively speaking, I
feel a lot has occurred. As we have progressed into the last few weeks, I have
become more and more concerned about the dire straits I find myself in,
objectively speaking. It has been very difficult for me to relax and to have
faith in the validity of what you have been telling me.

Nevertheless, something keeps me coming back, and here I am again. I will do my
best this evening to be still and attentive and receptive. I will listen to
what you have to say, and not busy myself with arguments and questions and
doubts and fears.

RAJ: That will be a good idea, Paul. The wheel of history repeats itself, but
Being never repeats Itself. It is forever making Itself new. The dilemma in
which you seem to find yourself is just such an example of Being making Itself
new. This Being which is making Itself new is your Being. You are having
difficulty because there seems to be a gap between what your Being is being,
and what you are conscious of your Being as being. This is because you are, so
to speak, riding bareback on the surface of your three-dimensional, or
objective, sense of being conscious. You find yourself involved in the drama,
and experiencing the need of responding to demands which, apparently, are
coming from outside yourself.

These demands are your Self declaring the presence of that which appears to be
absent when viewed from the standpoint of the apparent drama. It will not
appear truly as your conscious experience of being until you are viewing from
the point of your Being as Conscious Being—not that of finite man.

That which makes abundance appear to be lack is entirely in that standpoint. It
depends entirely on which end of the binoculars you are looking through. As I
have said before, you have a habit of switching ends quite frequently. This is
what is frustrating you.

When you receive a telephone call, or a statement in the mail, which claims
that your Supply is not omnipresent—some part of your universe is coming up
short—you must recognize this as being totally false. Your Being is
omnipresently present and active. Since that is the Fact, then it would be
foolish for you to go out and attempt to correct that illusion on the basis of
the phone call or statement. The attempt is made on the basis of a false
assumption.

You must be alert at the inception. Then you will not waste your time
attempting to do something which is already done by virtue of the immovable
completeness of your Being. Indeed, your Being will be identified completely,
and is identified completely—and that means manifest completely. Otherwise, the
omnipresence of your Being would be only partial, which is an impossibility.

You must be willing to face the suggestion of lack, and meet it head on, with
the recognition that such a suggestion is an exact opposite of the Fact. If you
will reverse the suggestion and be conscious of the specific truth which you
will discover in that Place where you are right now, and abide with that truth,
then you will be able to respond appropriately. Everything you do will identify
the Fact.

It is not enough to know what the Fact is. You must also include consciously in
your awareness of the Fact that It is not omnipresent if It is not present as
that which identifies your completeness. This must be done from that Place
wherein you are experiencing the omnipresence of your Being as Conscious Being.
It is essential that you keep this in mind.

Please think about this for awhile and then get back with me again later.

PAUL: I will, Raj. Thank you very much.

