---
title: April 29, 1982 Thursday 
---

PAUL: I don’t know how much time we’ll have before the family returns, but in
the meantime, I would like to hear anything you might have to say at the
present time.

RAJ: Thank you, Paul. You have had some interesting unfoldments today which are
bringing you fresh energy and the actual experience of the omnipresence of your
Being. This is a great improvement over yesterday.

It is very important to realize that Identity is something far different from
ego. Identity is what exists before ego can seem to be formed. Yet, once ego
develops, Identity becomes practically invisible. This is because ego supplies
one with a “high,” a thrill, an excitement which Identity does not.

Ego behaves exactly like a drug. As one gets used to it, it requires a bigger
“fix” in order to get the thrill. It also engages one in a quest which had no
foundation to begin with. Each additional “fix” requires the further
development of a personality and an intellectual originality which can then
become identified in a “thrilling” way, so that a higher “high” can be
achieved.

Since ego has no basis in Actuality, this superstructure of “fixes” has not the
strength to support itself. Therefore, the so-called ego is met with
interminable collapses of one sort or another. Its “importance,” its “skill,”
its “ability” are fabulous in nature—substanceless, incapable of providing a
sustained high.

On the other hand, Identity, when It is perceived to be the expression of the
Universal, omnipresent divine Mind or Intelligence, is capable of expressing
Itself on a sustained basis—so sustained that the word “eternal” is the only
word that describes It. It is so substantial by virtue of Its Nature as
Intelligence, that It is called Omnipotent.

There is only one infinite Life/Principle, one infinite Identity, infinitely
expressed and seen as all that exists. It is what constitutes the center and
circumference of Being—Your Self as you experience It, Susan’s Self as she
experiences It, and my Self as I experience It. Its omnipotence or strength is
constituted of Its absolute omnipresent Integrity, which is Its Intelligent
Nature. it is not thrilling or exciting when contemplated from an egotistical
standpoint. But It is satisfying in ways that are so meaningful that they
cannot compare to the “thrills” of the ego. It also has this benefit: The
satisfaction is eternal and unchanging.

As one makes the shift from the three-dimensional frame of reference to the
being of Fourth-dimensional Man, it seems as though one must give up his
individuality and allow something which he does not recognize as himself to
take over and speak through him. But, the fact is that that which is speaking
through him is his original and unchanging Identity. It is on the false sense
of individuality called “personality” which is being given up.

Paul, now that you have become aware of this, you have also realized that the
false sense of individuality must give itself up on purpose. In addition, you
are now beginning to understand why few people actually do it. It is like
getting off a drug, kicking a habit. You now have some idea of the task which
is before you.

You are also aware that when the perception of the Reality of your Being is
clear enough, it is easier to give up the false sense of individuality for the
true experience of Identity. You can, indeed, anticipate a divine adventure,
even though it will involve some labor.

Do not expect this to occur overnight, Paul. As a matter of fact, this process
began the first night we began our conversations. Be patient and stick with it,
and be ready to put your shoulder to the wheel.

I would like for you to type this up and consider it before we speak again.

PAUL: Very well, Raj. I will. And thank you.

RAJ: You’re welcome, Paul. I will talk to you later.

