---
title: May 2, 1982 Sunday 
---

PAUL: Good evening, Raj.

RAJ: Good evening, Paul. Today was a very pleasant day for you. As I mentioned,
the music by Steven Halpern was exceptionally beautiful, and I enjoyed it very
much.

It is becoming clear to you that when you are feeling better, it does not mean
that things are going better—any more than when you are feeling bad, that
things are not going well. Emotional responses have very little to do with
Reality. In either case, Reality is unfolding Itself perfectly. The only thing
that happens when you are feeling good is that it’s easier to take than when
you are feeling bad.

It is important to begin to see that Being is unfolding Itself successfully,
with absolutely perfect precision, no matter how you feel. Emotional responses
are illusions, having no relationship to the Actuality of Being. Thus, if you
are wise, you will not let your emotional responses signify anything to you
regarding Reality.

If at the end of the day you say you are feeling bad, you should in the same
breath be able to acknowledge that you have had a very good day, since the
Universe has unfolded Itself with Absolute Perfection—regardless of how you
feel. The trick is in where the emphasis is being laid. You can be aware of how
you may feel, but it is what you Know about the Nature of the Universe and your
Being which should get the emphasis. That should be what you base your
interpretation or understanding of things upon. It doesn’t really matter
whether you feel good or bad. It really doesn’t.

You will find that as ego fades away, so will feeling good and bad. This is
because in the long run, feeling good or bad depends upon how much “ego” has
been fed or not fed. This is why so few individuals are able to make the
transition from the three-dimensional frame of reference to the being of
Fourth-dimensional Man, because in the process, ego is on its way out and
that’s b-a-a-a-d news.

PAUL: I am especially grateful for these conversations, because I don’t see how
this transition could be made without some guidance, since it is spontaneously
natural to avoid feeling bad.

RAJ: I understand, and I agree that it is incredibly difficult to do so without
some guidance. I appreciate having the opportunity to work with you on this.

Being aware that it is late for you, and being aware that I want you to get
into that Place one more time before you retire and contemplate your desire one
more time, I am going to keep this conversation short this evening. As a word
of encouragement, I will say that the answer to your request is in the process
of unfolding to you, although you may not be aware of it at the moment. And
with that, I will say good night.

PAUL: Thank you, Raj. Good night.

