---
title: May 3, 1982 Monday
---

PAUL: Good morning, Raj.

RAJ: Good morning, Paul. I can see you are definitely in that Place this
morning, and that is a wonderful way to start out your day. I would like you to
not attempt to take on anything today in the sense of being responsible for
it—no matter what you do. I do not mean for you to do nothing, but I mean for
you to do it with no sense of personal responsibility. I mean for you to do it
from exactly that Place wherein you find yourself at this very moment.

You feel somewhat too relaxed to type accurately, but you have already found
out to some degree that, as you are very relaxed and not attempting to maintain
control over your fingers, your fingers are more accurate and speedier than
when control is attempted. You do not have to be concerned that you will become
too relaxed. The more relaxed you are, from a three-dimensional standpoint, the
more all of You is available to respond to the demands and needs of the moment,
and the fulfillment of these will become more simultaneous with the perception
of the need.

You can see that it truly, completely, means getting yourself out of the way.
This is the grand lesson. Do not be afraid of being “out of control.” So many
times people feel that if they are out of control, they will be wide open to
being controlled by other entities, forces, or powers. But the omnipresent I
Am—the infinite, divine Mind that constitutes the Being of every being that
be’s—is the only Presence and Power which can exert and manifest Itself, and be
the center and circumference—the Alpha and Omega. Therefore, such concepts or
beliefs are groundless, and one need never be afraid to let go and say and be
the statement, “Thy Will be done.“

Before you begin today’s work, be sure and start with your meditation, your
consideration of your need, and your specific request. Then proceed with the
necessities of the day, and I will talk with you later on.

PAUL: Than you, Raj. Good-bye.

