---
title: May 10, 1982 Monday Afternoon
---

PAUL: You heard the telephone conversation, Raj?[^1]

RAJ: Yes, I did, and you handled it very well. It was calculated to arouse your
personal indignation. The fact that you find yourself shaking inwardly and
outwardly is an indication of the ego viewpoint, rather than the Identity
standpoint. But, under the circumstances, you remained relatively clear of
getting into the three-dimensional, reactive frame of reference, which he hoped
you would utilize.

PAUL: Alright. We are faced with the necessity of being able to pay for our
income tax returns and also handle this situation with Household Finance
Corporation. At the same time, we have these other bills due. Fortunately, the
creditors are working with me on them.

RAJ: Paul, do not let your Universe become broken up into bits and pieces, each
acting on its own, each attempting to fulfill its own ends. This is exactly
what I was talking about this morning. Do not believe any form, organization,
or manifestation when it seems to declare that it can demand or cause
something, irritate you, et cetera.

Not only should you not identify yourself as form, you need to be sure that you
don’t allow any form to convince you that it has a purpose and can successfully
act independent from the Whole. It is a trick of ego to suck you into believing
that you, among these other forms, are a form to be battered about,
manipulated, coerced—and that you must defend yourself against them. It is
utterly false. Do not buy it for a second.

Stay with the Fact that your Being is totally present. THAT’S FACT. Your Being
is totally functioning. THAT’S FACT. Your Being is being totally successful in
fully identifying Itself. THAT’S FACT. You are not a small part of the totality
of God’s Universe. THAT’S FACT. And you are not part of God’s Universe, because
God is the only Identity you have. Therefore, your Being is infinite and cannot
be contained. Do not let yourself be coerced into accepting the pea-sized
concept of Identity called three-dimensional man.

You must stay with the Infinity of your Being, together with Its Omnipresence
and Omnipotence. You are all of It. It is all of You. God is the only thing
going on. it is the Happening. Do not buy the hypnotic suggestions being put
forth by “ego.“

Fortunately for you, ego is not presenting itself in a constructive manner. It
is relatively easy for you to see that succumbing to its suggestions would not
be constructive for you.

I urge you to remain steadfast during these last days of the attempt of “ego”
to convince you that it is you, and that everything must be worked out on its
basis. I have warned you, so that you will not be taken in, that it is likely
to use every dirty trick it knows. “HAL” is very busy now, whining and cooing
and remonstrating against its demise. Do not be moved!

PAUL: I hear you, but it’s not easy.

RAJ: Do not indulge in the mistaken belief that it is going to be anything less
than hard work, Paul. Accept that right now! Do not look at this “stage” of
your growth as being peaches and cream. Do not indulge in self-pity or
indignation at it not being easier since you “know the Truth” and are “having
these conversations with me.“

Realize right now that indignation and self-pity are ego, ego, ego right down
the line. You’ve got to not give a damn about whether it’s easy, hard,
pleasant, unpleasant, quick or slow. These are all three-dimensional,
“ego-bound” concepts. Even if they seem to parade as your feelings or thinking,
do not “connect” up with them.

I reiterate, Paul: Plan on it being hard work! Fight the fight! Follow through
to the end wherein “ego’s” claims become the nonsense that they are, just as
when HAL began reciting nursery rhymes and singing children’s songs.

Do not misunderstand. I am not saying there is a real fight. I’m not saying
there is a real antagonist. I am saying that if you don’t behave as though
there were one—if you don’t tend to follow through “come hell or high
water”—then you will be lazy and slipshod in your approach. One way or another,
ego will insinuate itself into and as your self-awareness, because it is a
habit through long years of apparent Self-ignorance.

Let’s handle that thought right now—that it’s not this hard for others. First
of all, that’s ego whining! It’s not You. Secondly, this idea of “others” is
another ploy of ego. Only ego divides things into me and thee. Ego, ego, ego!}
Watch out for it!

Realize right now that ego is ego is ego. Consciously or purposely putting it
down will evoke the same whining, pleading, pitiful “show,” no matter who is
putting it down. I told you, Paul, it’s a liar! lies, lies, lies!

It is imperative that you be alone with your own Being—absolutely alone! Don’t
compare (that’s ego!). Don’t try to find affirmation or agreement with your
stance from “out there” (that’s ego!). Don’t—and I say this especially—don’t
let any feeling of pride enter the picture because of what you might have to
do, and the fact that you are willing to do it (that’s ego!).

This is a dirty fight! Fight it dirty! I say this because you will have a
tendency to be “polite,” “civilized,” “courteous” if you can. Once again, you
will be abiding by a set of concepts which drip with “ego.“

Only if you are willing to be alone with your own Being will you be alone with
the Reality of “things.” It is the undistorted awareness of the Reality of
“things” which will constitute the resolution of the conflict that seems to be
going on “out there.“

If you try to work it out from the standpoint of the Many, as though It were
separate from You, you will be operating within “ego’s” bailiwick.

You must remain steadfastly and abidingly with the Fact that your Being is One
and that that One is You. That One, being Omnipresent, is Omnipotently
Omniactive as every last little detail of Its Infinitude—including every bill
collector, every dollar owed, every process server, and every dollar paid. It
is fulfilling Itself perfectly in identifying Its completeness with absolute
success. It is, Paul! No matter what the three-dimensional insinuation is.

You see, it’s the whole dream we’re talking about waking up from! And you can
do it. You are able.

That’s not a pep talk, Paul. It’s fact! The reason you are able is that you are
not experientially aware of being consciously aware as Conscious Being. You are
doing it right now. At the same time you are aware of ego doing its
simultaneous little jig and operating as though it is you—as though it is your
conscious experience of being, also. This is why you are able to wake up rather
than just lop off another branch of the tree of “mortality”—three-dimensional
thinking.

Read this over. Contemplate it. And then get back with me.

PAUL: I will, Raj. Thank you.

[^1]: An extremely insulting call was received from one of my creditors.


