---
title: May 15, 1982 Saturday 
---

PAUL: Raj, I don’t understand why there seems to be so much mechanical
failure—the car, the dictation machine, the tape recorder, etc. I especially
don’t understand why we’re having trouble with the car, since if we pay to have
it fixed, we won’t have the money to rent the copy machine for the business. If
we get the copy machine and don’t have the car fixed, then we have no way to
pick up the copy work.

RAJ: Paul, I Am is the Substance of everything that appears. This I Am is the I
Am that you recognize as your Self. If you see things as other than the
visibility of I Am and think that they exist independently, then you literally
pull the plug on them, since separated from what they Are, they have no
existence or function. The fact that you are having this difficulty does not
imply anything wrong with your thinking, but it indicates that it’s time for
this point to be clarified with you. You have grown into an appreciation of
this fact, and it’s time to incorporate it into your consciousness of your
Being.

Cars are not inventions of man, but rather they are that which identifies the
Omnipresence of Being to some extent. They illustrate the everpresent
availability of your Being as conscious experience. Recording devices,
likewise, illustrate or demonstrate the omnipresent availability of some part
of your “past”—information which is of value to you to have in your present
experience. Do not separate them from their Source, conceptually speaking, and
they will continually identify the fulfillment of Purpose.

You are beginning to lose sight of the fact that all of You is always
present—and that means right now! You are letting some things depend on other
things (objectively speaking), and this is fouling up your perceptions of these
things by seeing them as having independent existence and purpose.

PAUL: I will get back to you in a few minutes, Raj. It’s time for the kids to
go to bed.

RAJ: Okay, Paul.

PAUL: [I took a short break.]

Okay. I’m back.

RAJ: Alright, Paul.

PAUL: Raj, I am failing miserably at demonstrating or seeing the omnipresence
of my Being in terms of supply. It’s true that from day to day we have what we
need, but it’s far from a comfortable way to live. All we’re getting are
basics. The larger debts we owe are not being met.

RAJ: Paul, I want you to be aware that you are beginning to give up your faith,
trust, and belief in the validity of our conversations. This is indicated by
the flip-flopping back and forth between knowing they are real and doubting
they are real. I point out also that the doubting comes into play when you are
challenged by opinions or circumstances. This certainly is a natural response,
but it is not the consistent vantage point which you will find necessary if
you’re going to be free from being dangled like a yo-yo or blown to and fro on
the breeze of chance.

PAUL: Well, if you are wanting me to develop some inner strength which will not
yield, no matter what I’m confronted with—and if I’m supposed to do this while
it’s my family’s lack that I’m faced with—then I don’t think you should be
surprised! Theoretically, intellectually, I can grasp its value. But when it
comes down to the nitty-gritty of life, it often seems like nonsense.

RAJ: I understand, Paul. I want to refer you to what your Supply told you about
how to set the Law in motion. I want you to begin doing this on a regular
basis. A word to the wise: Be sure of what you are asking for, because you
shall surely get it.

PAUL: Alright, Raj. I shall forge forward. I will tell you this: It would be
much easier if my family’s needs were being better met.

RAJ: You are right, absolutely right. Now, do something about it! You’ve got
the necessary tools.

PAUL: Very well, I will. Good night, Raj.

RAJ: Good night, Paul. I am with you and Susan both. Most of all, you are with
your Self.


