---
title: May 28, 1982 Friday 
---

PAUL: [Today I decided to try having a conversation with my Wisdom.]

WISDOM: Yes, Paul.

PAUL: Can you tell me what is the wisest thing to do in establishing our
business and our life here in Spokane?

WISDOM: Of Course. The wisest thing to do is to acknowledge that you are
already established Universally at every point of the Infinitude of Your Being.
You cannot become established in Spokane, because the establishment has been
since the Beginning, and it has been and is Universal.

It is important to realize that the establishment is Universal. You must begin
to perceive and experience the fact Your Being is Universal, and not localized
only to that point at which your consciousness is attentively focused.

It will be wise for you to remain in touch with this Universal establishment of
Your Being. You need to flow with your whole Being, and not just with what
appears to be happening right now in Spokane. In this way, whatever you do in
Spokane will identify and illustrate the Universal establishment of your Being.
It will keep you from being fooled into believing that you are nothing more
than a finite point in the Universe, eking out an existence, struggling, trying
to become, and constantly failing.

I am not going to give you specific outward steps to take, because then you
will not do the needed thing. That thing is to go within and remain in that
Place—in touch with Your Universal Being—and flow with It. The specific,
detailed steps which identify the establishment of your Being Universally—as
well as specifically in Spokane—will become clear when you follow the
directions I have given you.

PAUL: I will do that. Thank you.

[Addressing Raj.] Good morning Raj.

RAJ: Good morning, Paul.

PAUL: Raj, I would like to hear whatever you might have to share with me this
morning, without asking any questions of you at this point.

RAJ: Very well, Paul. I want you to consider the fact that “pedestals” are for
show. They exist for the purpose of exhibiting whatever is resting upon them.
As a matter of fact, the pedestal itself has become an object of art. I want
you to consider the fact that a pedestal is used to set something apart from
everything else. It is a divisive structure, three-dimensionally speaking. It
is also divisive from an inner standpoint, wherein it equates with “ego”—”a
liar and the father of it.“[^1] It is the liar, in that it holds up that which is
not separate and says, “This is separate.” It is the father of the lie, in that
what it holds up as separate is concocted of its own fantasy. The pedestal,
together with what it shows off, is total illusion. One truly does not exist
without the other.

As things seem to take on some definition in our life, I want you to beware of
the idea that the form which is taking shape is in any way connected with You
as a product of your intellect, or your good sense, or you, yourself, in any
way.

You must remain clear in the fact that form is fluid and not fixed, that it
serves to identify what your Being is being. You must remember that if the form
became “fixed,” that your Being would become fixed, static, immovable, and
unmoving. And, thus, it would cease to be Being.

Your focal point must remain at that within Point wherein you are constantly
aware of being as Conscious Being, not as the operator of a business, or the
promoter of a service. You must let the business and the service be what they
will, as the ever-fluid manifestation of that living Being which You Are. Do
not let what “occurs” become the repository of yourself. This is because Your
Self, being infinite, cannot be confined to any manifestation or visibility
which It evolves for Its identification.

Yes, in your terms, it would mean a dispassionate, uninvolved experience of
what is appearing. You must learn to get your satisfaction from being What You
Are as Conscious Being, rather than what you appear to be by virtue of what is
done three-dimensionally.

You have slipped in this regard and have allowed yourself to become trapped in
the visibility and tangibility of your Being, and it has not been comfortable
for you. At the same time, it has not damaged you. It has illustrated to you
experientially the difference between being as Conscious Being and being
three-dimensionally as a finite form among other forms.

I cannot force you to do it, but I would suggest that you get back into that
Place as an ongoing state of Being and remain there.

Being out from Mind is the only state of Being in which illusion is absent.
Illusion is always distressing and uncomfortable, as you well know.

I am glad you spoke with your Wisdom this morning. I would suggest that you
devote equal time to speaking with your Wisdom and me. In fact, the more you
can find your answers coming from that which you recognize to be your own
Being, without any possibility of imagining that it is coming from someone or
something separate from yourself—such as me—the better it will be for you in
tying together those aspects of your Being which you have not consciously been
aware of as Your Self.

The fact is that it is all You. But, it must become your conscious experience
of your Being, without any dichotomy of any kind.

PAUL: I understand, Raj.

RAJ: Paul, when it comes to your family and your living experience, be
observant. Watch to see whether you are seeing yourself and the members of your
family as isolated bits and pieces—parts of the flotsam and jetsam of
life—floating on the currents of who knows what.

This is a three-dimensional-only point of view. It will be constantly
frustrating, because it begins with a false concept of man. It sees him as
trying to lift himself up by his bootstraps and getting help in doing so from
others who may or may not be “more enlightened.” It misses the larger fact
that Being is unfolding Itself on an infinite basis. It is unfolding Itself
successfully.

This means that, rather than trying to figure out what you can do which will be
best for your family, you can abide in that Place of observing with
understanding that Being is unfolding Itself perfectly as each specific
identity in your family. This perfect unfoldment is, because of Its infinity,
occurring in a way which appears to be harmonious for all concerned. I say
“appears” because, no matter how many It appears to be, It is still One
infinite Event.

You give the weight to the Law of Perfection by beginning with the perfect
concept. You seem to diminish your awareness of that Perfection unfolding when
you begin with a finite concept of what is going on. You cannot actually change
the Fact, but you can seem to blind yourself to It.

If All is Infinite Mind, then All is Infinite Mind! One must live his
experience of the infinitude of his Being as though that were the Fact. Not
because that will help make it so, but because that is what is so! And such
thinking is, therefore, in line with what is already true.

Each individuality in your family is the One infinite Individuality infinitely
individualized and unfolding Itself in absolutely healthy, constructive and
integrating ways. This is the Fact. Even when one member or another of your
family vehemently claims his ability to act on his own, you can rest assured
that the eternal Facts which contradict such a belief, contradict it in such a
way as to turn it to the advantage of the individuality indulging in the
belief. Thus, it illustrates experientially why the belief is invalid and a
waste of time.

Every single event, whether constituted of Reality or what seems to be a belief
about Reality, cannot get outside the realm of serving the One and Only thing
going on. This is why “the very circumstance, which our suffering sense deems
wrathful and afflictive, Love can make an angel entertained unawares.“[^2]

Paul, it is imperative that both you and Susan begin to really get this sense
that Being is totally positive and totally constructive. Not even a false
belief can escape the design or intent of Being to fulfill Itself, and thus
serve to enlighten the one indulging in such a belief.

PAUL: Thank you, Raj. I have other questions, but I want to consider what you
have said so far before I go into them.

RAJ: That is a good idea, Paul, since I think some of the questions you will
find have already been answered.

I will look forward to speaking with you soon.

PAUL: Thanks again.

[^1]: John, 8:44.
[^2]: Eddy, Science and Health, 574:27-30.

