---
title: May 29, 1982 Saturday 
---

PAUL: [The first part of the conversation was accidentally not recorded.]

RAJ: You must realize, Paul, that the concept of “irresponsibility” is going to
present itself to you until you see that the concept of “responsibility” is
invalid—except from the ego standpoint. This is because the concept of
responsibility implies Being is not Universal, and is not unfolding Itself
Universally, with absolute perfection. It implies, therefore, that each tiny,
finite mentality must take on responsibility for what needs to be done, and for
seeing that it is done in a “principled,” “intelligent,” and “reasonable” way.
Responsibility and irresponsibility both fade out of the picture as being as
Conscious Being becomes the Place from which all is experienced.

Do not be afraid to follow the intuitive inner guidance which comes to you
regarding your business. You are learning new principles of business here. I
encourage you to be willing to let go of this sense of personal responsibility
and control, and be willing to flow with the business as the busy-ness or
Activity of Being Itself—Your Self.

PAUL: Raj, I am going to change the subject here, because I have a question
that is demanding attention. The question is: Why does it irk me when Susan
asks to speak to you? Why do I feel that her questions will be an imposition
upon you, and why does it make me mad that she doesn’t contact her own Guide?

RAJ: Because you have not learned that Being is truly unfolding Itself
infinitely and not according to concepts. It is true that she has a Guide whom
she can contact, but you need to learn to flow with what is happening, rather
than with what you think ought to be happening.

It is no imposition upon me whatsoever, and it is no imposition on you. What do
you have to do that is better than allowing a communication between Susan and
myself through you? It is a divine activity. The fact that you are irritated by
it is nothing less than ego getting in the way. That’s poppycock!

You are simply setting up blocks to the effortless unfoldment of your Being by
attempting to structure your Being, and you are doing nothing but causing
yourself unnecessary distress. You must get back to the fact that it is the
infinitude of your Being with which you are confronted. Stop separating It into
compartments—dividing It up into “me” and “thee”—and then attempting to
organize the bits and pieces according to concepts.

Your problem at this point is truly a matter of attempting to place an overlay
of intellectual patterns upon Infinity. Nothing less than the infinite view
will do for you any longer.

Remember that letting go of control—letting go of these intellectual thought
structures—will not cause disorganization and disorientation of the Universe.
Rather, it will reveal from an experiential standpoint, the fact that the
Universe is already organized and orderly and intelligent in Its Function,
whether you are intellectualizing about it or not.

Remember, too, that until you do go ahead and let go, you will not have the
opportunity to observe It working in Its absolute perfection and spontaneous
and effortless harmony.

It is equally imperative for you to begin to really grasp that your “others”
are your Self seen infinitely. Therefore, “competition” is useless and
baseless. No one can control you, and you can control no one, because there is
only One Thing going on. You must stop challenging Susan, and you must stop
seeing Susan as someone separate who is challenging you. This is extremely
important, because none of it is happening that way. The necessity here is for
you to own all of yourself as your Self. The infinity of your experience is
your Infinitude identifying the Oneness of your Being.

I want you to contemplate this with all due seriousness, and more than that, I
want you to begin to live it as much as possible.

You will remember that, at the beginning of our conversations, we talked about
the necessity of being willing to stand at the edge of the Unknown—knowing
nothing. And at this point, you are attempting to take what we have been
speaking about and using it as the basis for knowing something now.

In Actuality, the necessity still remains, and will forever remain, for you to
continue to stand at the edge of the Unknown—knowing absolutely nothing. Let
the infinitude of your Being flow through and as your conscious experience at
each and every moment. This is essential.

Because it is a well-established habit, it is so very easy to attempt to take
the infinite unfoldments of our Being and try to channel them into habits of
action. The need is to give up our habits of “doing,” and replace them with
being what the infinity of our Being is being at every moment.

The call for action this evening is for you to consciously relinquish your
attempts at control and conceptualization and get back to that Point where you
stand as Nothing. Thereby you allow the Somethingness of your Being to become
apparent as your conscious experience of being.

PAUL: Thank you, Raj.

RAJ: You are welcome, Paul. Good night.

PAUL: Good night.


