---
title: June 3, 1982 Thursday 
---

PAUL: Good evening, Raj.

RAJ: Good evening, Paul. You are beginning to notice the limitations you place
upon yourself by virtue of assuming that you don’t know something or that you
can’t figure it out, or that it’s not the right time, or any of a number of
excuses which are totally false, but which you totally believe. You are
beginning to discover that you truly do not have to figure a single thing out.
You, Paul, person, three-dimensional finite consciousness, do not have the
answer! Yet, the answers are available. The answers are available because of
What You Are when you are standing as the Door. You are really beginning to see
this, and this is excellent.

You are also beginning to find more satisfaction from being that which is the
Answer unfolding Itself, rather than being the one who is figuring out what the
Answer is, or being able in any way to claim credit for the Answer. This also
is excellent.

What is not excellent is that you are not yet spontaneously choosing to avail
yourself of the answers by means by being the Door on a continuous basis. It is
as though it were in some way more laborious than figuring the answer out, or
simply postponing having the answer. I want you to take some time to examine
what this reluctance is, so that you may understand it better. I could tell
you, but I want you to learn it for yourself.

PAUL: I will have to say that a number of things are beginning to jell and
clarify themselves.

RAJ: You are correct. This jelling, as you have put it, will continue. The
facts will become more meaningful to you as each day goes by. Since you already
know that there truly is no process to it, I would encourage you to relinquish
this idea that standing as the Door is something “special,” and therefore not
something to waste your time doing during everyday activities. Nothing exists
outside the infinitude of Being. Therefore, what you denominate “everyday
activities” in a somewhat demeaning way, needs to be seen as equally worthy of
being embraced and perceived from the standpoint of being the Door.

Remember that standing as the Door, at the edge of the Unknown, will become a
constant activity or point of observation in your life. You might as well see
it in its proper perspective right from the beginning as being totally normal
and not “special” in any way.

PAUL: Thank you, Raj. I will do that.

RAJ: You are welcome, Paul. Good night.

