---
title: June 10, 1982 Thursday 
---

PAUL: Good afternoon, Raj.

RAJ: Good afternoon, Paul.

Be aware of your reluctance to have this conversation. Simply recognize it.
Notice that the reluctance is because you are wanting to glide over the
information and understanding which you imagine you are going to be confronted
with. You imagine it is going to discredit you in some way.

Realize, further, to what extent this fear or reluctance is manifested
physically in terms of strong perspiration, discomfort in the pit of your
stomach, and just a general yukkiness.

I am going to suggest that you clean up your act mentally and physically before
we continue further. Go take a bath! And while you’re taking the bath, refresh
your consciousness also.

PAUL: Very well, Raj, I shall.

[So, I took a bath.]

Okay, I’m back, and that does feel better. Let’s go ahead and take the plunge.

As I observe myself, it seems incredible to me that there is this definite
reluctance to get into the subject of Substance, or into the specific answer to
the problems we have been faced with over the past number of months. It is
extremely strong.

RAJ: And, Paul, it is entirely operating at the level of belief. It is a
totally ignorant experience. That is what makes it most incredible.

It simply means that you are going to have to move through it purposely, and
not hope for some way to get around it.

Are you ready?

PAUL: Yes. I can’t say that with a whole lot of enthusiasm, but I can say it
with determination.

RAJ: That is good, Paul. Part of doing this purposely means that I am not
simply going to sit here and expound. I want you to ask me specific questions
and I will answer your specific questions.

PAUL: Very well. My first question is: What is Substance?

RAJ: Your first answer is that Substance is infinite, nondimensional, and pure
Energy—the Life Force, as it were.

It is Intelligence.

It is Soul.

It is Spirit.

It is Principle.

It is Love.

It is Life.

It is Truth.

It is Mind.

It is, in the final analysis, what is meant by the word God.

It is omnipresent. It is omniactive. It is the nondimensional or Universal
“stuff” of which all that is made is made. It is that which constitutes You and
your entire experience as Conscious Being, whether you are being “out from
Mind” or not.

The Bible says, “Faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of
things not seen.“[^1] This means that no matter how deeply we may seem to be
buried in the distortions of a personal, three-dimensional, finite frame of
mind, the faith that we find everpresently abiding within us is our everpresent
“connection” with the Actuality of our Being as It is really going on. In other
words, it is our Actual experience of Substance, inviolably “held in trust” for
us, you might say, so long as we indulge in attempting to experience the
Reality of our Being from a partial view. This is why it is “the evidence of
things not seen.” It is the evidence of Reality, present and undistorted, in
spite of the distortions inherent in the partial view.

Faith, intuition, and desire constitute three aspects of our everpresent
conscious experience of Reality while we are involved in the deception of
existing as a finite mentality.

Now, it does no good to have a lifeline attached to us while trekking around in
the foreboding territory of the three-dimensional frame of reference if we do
not use it to guide ourselves back into the Fourth-dimensional view, wherein
perspective returns and there is no foreboding.

In other words, it serves no purpose to stand in the finite view and have
faith, have intuition, and have desires. From within that frame of reference,
the distortion applies equally to those three everpresent perceptions of
Reality. It causes them to be experienced as arising out of the absence of that
which we have faith in, intuition about, and desires for.

One can sit and rot in the illusion of “hell” while tenderly fondling and
embracing his intuitions, faith, and desires. Your faith in what is Real, your
intuitions about It, and your desire to experience It must be seen for what
they are, and utilized, no matter how infinitesimal they seem to be from the
standpoint of the partial view!

PAUL: How does Substance function?

RAJ: It functions by being the omnipresent omniaction of Being. The substance
of Mind is Consciousness. The substance of Truth is Principle. The substance of
Principle is Intelligence/Law. The substance of Soul is Love. The substance of
Love is Life. And the substance of Life is Mind.

You are wondering what happened to Spirit.

PAUL: You are correct.

RAJ: Spirit is the substance of all of these, both nondimensionaly and
dimensionally. It is the Light, Itself, which illuminates and is illumined. It
is That which shines, and That which is shone upon. Spirit is, Itself, the Life
Principle, the Life Force, the Initiator and Initiated, the Cause and the
Effect.

Law is intelligent Principle—principled Intelligence—and this constitutes the
omniactive Nature of Substance. The Light which is divine, intelligent Love is
the means by which divine Mind reveals Itself to Itself infinitely as the
omnipresently active Experience of Revelation. It allows Soul to respond. “And,
behold, it was very good.“[^2]

Substance is the infinite “recognition” of Reality when we are standing as the
Door, since there is no disparity between the perception of Reality and the
concrete or substantial experience of It in all of Its completeness.

PAUL: What is the function of Substance?

RAJ: Its function is congruency, integrity, confluency, and inseparable
Oneness, the inviolable substantiality of Infinity, of Reality. It is the
constituting indivisibility of Conscious Being. It is the Absolute Law of the
intelligent, harmonious blending of the infinite manifestations which
constitute the experience of being as Conscious Being.

Substance is Omnipotence. There is nothing passive, whatsoever, about it. It is
the adhesion, cohesion, and attraction which constitute the immutable
orderliness of the Totality of Being.

PAUL: I truly don’t know what to ask you next, Raj.

RAJ: That’s alright. Why don’t you consider these things before continuing?

PAUL: I will. Thank you.

RAJ: You are welcome, Paul.

PAUL: [I transcribe the conversation, considered what had been said, and then
continued.]

Raj, you really know how to put the screws to me. It isn’t easy coming up with
pertinent questions, I am finding.

RAJ: That’s correct. Learning what questions to ask is half the battle of
learning what you need to know. Abstract generalities mumbled in consciousness
serve no practical purpose, even though a temporary sense of satisfaction can
be gained from such mumbling.

PAUL: In what way does Substance constitute Supply?

RAJ: Let us first be clear that when we speak of Supply we are not speaking
from a finite, three-dimensional standpoint.

Supply is not something that comes from one point to another point, such as
payment from a client or customer. Supply does not come from one thing to
another, such as food value from wheat. Supply is not given or received.

Supply is an Omnipresencing of That Which Is: God, the Life Principle, Divine
Mind, Fourth-dimensional Being as Conscious Being. You must remember that
Substance is Activity, not a static lump of stuff. We have already spoken in
regard to the fact that It has intent or purpose.

Substance is Being’s Ability to fulfill Itself successfully, Totally.
Therefore, it should be clear that Substance is fulfillment—Supply in its
truest meaning.

Supply is inescapable, unavoidable, when understood.

PAUL: Thank you. How does Substance relate to health?

RAJ: Health is the constituting Wholeness of Being, the Orderliness, Integrity,
Indivisibility and, therefore, the Perfection of all Conscious Being. Being
omnipotent in Its ability to fulfill Its Intent or Purpose, there is no delay
or obstacle to that fulfillment. It is this unimpeded Omnipresencing of
Substance which constitutes Supply in what is called health or Wholeness.

PAUL: Thank you.

RAJ: I reiterate that Supply is not a movement from “here” to “there,” not even
from God to man—meaning, the infinite to the finite—since in Reality there is
no finite realm, only a finite view of the Infinite.

The revelation for you today is not only a clearer understanding of what
Substance is, but the specific disclosure that You—as Fourth-dimensional
Conscious Being—are this Self-fulfilling omnipotent, omniactive Substance in
exactly the same way that you are the Answer.

When you have been conversing with your Supply or Substance, you have been
consciously experiencing the constitutional Universal Substance of Your Being.
Substance and Its omnipotent omniaction is in no way separate or apart from
that which You Are. It is the All-constituting Spirit Omnipresencing Itself,
and is experienced as your conscious experience of Being when you are standing
as the Door.

There is only One Substance, no matter how infinitely seen nor how great its
diversification. Substance is not an attribute or a manifestation of God, of
Being, but is Its Constitution.

Now, you can see that this understanding cannot be used to overcome lack. It
reveals unequivocally that it is impossible for there to be lack to overcome.
Abide steadfastly in this understanding of Substance—as being that which
constitutes Your Being Totally, infinitely, and unfailingly—from that Place
where you are experiencing Being as Conscious Being. Joyously observe what
unfolds.

PAUL: Thank you, Raj. I have no further questions regarding Substance at this
time.

Good night.

RAJ: Good night, Paul.

[^1]: Hebrews, 11:1.  
[^2]: Gen. 1:31.


