---
title: June 14, 1982 Monday 
---

PAUL: Good morning, Raj.

RAJ: Good morning, Paul. You are beginning to grasp that there truly is a more
infinite and accurate view of what you are experiencing, and yet you feel you
have no basis upon which to wake up to that larger, more accurate perception.
You recognize the demand for something, and I have told you that the
three-dimensional situation will not be relieved until you wake up. Thus, you
find yourself in a bind from which you see no escape. The fact is that Being
has no dead ends. It is only the finite view which would make Infinity appear
to be blocked off.

You are sitting, right now, as the Omnipresence of infinite Good, actively,
Omnipotently unfolding and fulfilling Itself without exception.

It is the intuitive perception—it is the desire, faith, and intuition of there
being something to wake up into—which must remain the focal point of your
conscious experience, regardless of the illusion of being boxed in. Then you
must desire to wake up. Do not waste any energy in attempting to overcome any
facet of the dream, since the way things appear is imaginary. It, therefore,
cannot be dealt with in any way other than waking up!

I mentioned in our last conversation that the Awakening is already occurring. I
will add to that, that because you are waking up, the dream seems to be coming
to an end—even the “good” aspects of the dream seem no longer to be good, to be
functioning properly, to be dependable, and so forth. For this reason it is
imperative that you not react to the appearance of “ending” and attempt to keep
it going. You will not be able to do it anyway. Even if you could, you would
end up with only a further dream.

In the process of desiring to Awaken, keep in mind what we have been discussing
about Substance. In fact, keep in mind everything we have discussed because
these Facts are substantial and are constituted of the Substance which is
Light. Allow this Light to illumine your way, no matter how abstract this may
seem to you.

Keep more in touch with the Fourth-dimensional Actuality of your family
experience, and of any activity which you are involved in during the day. If
necessary, remind yourself of the Facts of which we have spoken. Measure your
daily experience according to these Facts, rather than the way the day seems to
be appearing or what it seems to be claiming.

The simple fact is that you need to proceed as though the divine Facts were
Facts—which They are. And, on the basis of these Facts, you must be alert with
a sense of active expectancy to see Them become apparent in and as your
conscious experience.

PAUL: Thank you, Raj. I shall do that. I will get together with you again
tomorrow morning.


