---
title: June 19,1982 Saturday 
---

RAJ: I think you can see that unfoldment is really a matter of how quickly or
slowly we are willing to let go of limitations, rather than the presence or
availability of something to expand into, since Infinity is the Actuality of
every moment of conscious experience. This is important to understand, because
we often feel that we are held back by the limitation as though it had the
ability to influence or deprive us of our Good. Not true! There is never
anything holding us!

It is always us that is holding onto some comfortable sense of limitation with
which we feel some sense of familiarity. The active agent which holds us back
is actually our own refusal to let go of the known for the Unknown.

This reluctance is entirely due to an adopted belief that we are what we appear
to be—finite, separate, an independent “intelligence” that exists “inside” this
finite object called a body, a potential victim of an unpredictable
environment. Yet, the finiteness, separateness, independence, and
unpredictability are entirely inherent in the partial view of the Actual
conscious experience of Being which is going on. If it weren’t going on, there
couldn’t be a misinterpretation or misidentification!

Essential to being able to break the partial view, is the shifting of the
“point of awareness” from being within that which is observed to that
subjective Place wherein It is that which is what is observed—the
all-inclusive, infinite experience of being as Conscious Being.

It is only the intuitive perception of our Infinity as Conscious Being—prior to
our “expansion”—which gives us the guts to expand. That intuition gives us the
perspective to see that we are expanding into what we already Are, and that we
are not expanding into the unknown at all! True, we may not know the details of
our Infinity, but it’s the details that we cannot see until the Universal
Nature of our Self becomes an accepted Fact and basis from which to be. This is
so essential to understand, and you are beginning to see this. Excellent!

PAUL: You realize, of course, that you interrupted the transcript that I was in
the middle of!

RAJ: I can’t always wait until you think you’re ready, Paul. In fact, I didn’t
interrupt you at all. You have maintained an open link with your Being all day,
which is excellent. This is when the revealing occurred. It is well that you
flowed with it.

Now, return to your transcript.

PAUL: Thanks, Raj.

[I resumed work for about five minutes, and then&hellip;]

RAJ: Whenever you are faced with a demand to give specific attention to some
part of your infinitude and it presents itself as being “problematic,” it is
simply the time and place for this aspect of You to be consciously incorporated
into and as your conscious experience of being as Yours!

You say you don’t want to be bothered, that this is not a good time because of
other more pressing demands. But, Paul, your Being unfolds Itself as You
according to divine Intelligence, Universal order and priorities. Every problem
is your opportunity to be the Christ—that accurate perception of Reality (Your
Being) that is not deluded in any way—and for that perception to become
irrevocably “incorporated” into and as your Self-awareness. There is no more
pressing need than that, because when seen, it becomes apparent that pressing
needs are illusions of the partial view. They never existed as anything for you
to sweat over and tense yourself up about.

PAUL: Thank you, Raj.

RAJ: You are welcome, Paul. You may continue.


