---
title: June 21, 1982 Monday 
---

PAUL: Good morning, Raj.

RAJ: Good morning, Paul.

PAUL: I am feeling some confusion this morning about things. I feel a sense of
pressure, and also of being up against the wall. It is not a comfortable thing.
I can conceive of the fact that this sense of pressure and of being up against
a dead end is an illusion. But this theoretical knowledge isn’t helping me, at
the moment, to know what to do and which way to go in order to see the illusion
dissolve.

We are down to $2 in our pocket. We have a payment due on the copy machine, and
we have $400 owed to us currently which cannot be paid until approximately two
weeks from now. Yet, we have a substantial amount of business coming in. It’s
the same old story.

RAJ: Paul, It is the same old story, but let us be clear about what the story
is. Do not be fooled into believing that what you see, hear, taste, smell, and
feel is what the story is. You are allowing a three-dimensional means of being
conscious determine what is real for you, based upon its limited, partial
ability to perceive the Actuality which is going on. Thus, you compound the
problem.

It is one thing to see anything from the partial view. It is entirely another
thing to believe what you see on that basis, and then base your thoughts and
responses upon what you see as though it were accurate.

The same old story which is going on is that Reality, the Actuality,
Fourth-dimensional Conscious Being, is what is going on and is what has always
been going on in Its Totality. You must be very strict in your observance of
what you know Actually to be true. Be willing to act, think, and respond from
that standpoint.

The need is to see the Actuality, not to respond or react to the partiality.
Right now you are geared to spontaneously react to the way things appear. You
are beginning to perceive that the necessity is to spontaneously respond to the
Actuality as though that were the urgent need, rather than the limited, finite,
three-dimensional view.

I realize what I am telling you is not something new, but it is, nevertheless,
the step that needs to be taken. It is the needed thing.

Now, I do want to deal with some of these issues which are confusing to you at
the moment. First of all, it is an accurate perception on your part that your
allegiance, your trust, and your energies need to be placed unequivocally where
they have been for the past six months—in other words, in your direct
perception of your Self as Fourth-dimensional Conscious Being. You will be
foolish to use any external source as a gauge or measuring stick by which to
know whether you are on the right track.

It would be a backward step for you to allow the writings of Mary Baker Eddy,
or any other author, or the current point of unfoldment of any group or
organization to become in any way the authority for what you are to think or
do. These sources most certainly have their place when one seems to be unable
to consciously perceive the Divinity of his own Being directly as his very own
conscious experience. But, this is not where you are. Therefore, you cannot
afford to place the authority for what you think, believe, or do at any point
external to that direct perception of your Conscious Being.

PAUL: Thank you, Raj.

RAJ: You do not need to feel that you will in any way be deprived of anything
worthwhile by relinquishing external authorities, concepts, or organizations,
no matter how beautifully they may have served to identify your unfolding
perceptions of Reality as your Conscious Being.

PAUL: I shall remember that, Raj.

RAJ: Now, as to another point with which you are having difficulty. I will
point out to you that this is a difficulty similar in nature to others that you
will be confronted with as those with whom you speak become aware of the manner
in which our conversations occur—the fact that an individuality called Raj is
speaking with you. You must be willing to stand with things the way they are
unfolding in and as your conscious experience of Being.

Reality does not exist to fit into or coordinate with partial views of Reality.
As long as you are expressing clear explanations of Reality, you must fully
expect those seeing with a partial view to attempt to discredit Truth if It
doesn’t agree with or come in the form that they conceive that It must come.

It is a fact that from the three-dimensional frame of reference, conscious
identity must come to that point where it recognizes itself as being the Door.
Then, it must actively and consciously be the Door. This, then, allows the
Reality of Fourth-dimensional Conscious Being to “break through” into and as
that apparently finite conscious experience of Being called three-dimensional
man. This reveals the eternally accurate conscious perception of what is Really
going on—the Christ-consciousness. This break-through is what has been
perceived as the statement, “Behold, I stand at the Door and knock.“[^1]

However, it must become clear that the apparent relationship of a
three-dimensional consciousness becoming the Door and then the Christ-Truth—the
direct perception of Reality as It is—flowing through that Door as the
conscious experience of a three-dimensional, finite man, does not then become
the new “norm.” Man, as he conceives himself to be three-dimensionally, does
not simply forever remain the “conduit” for Reality to flow through.

The fact is that the more consistently he is willing to stand as the Door, the
more consistently he will begin to experience himself less and less as “a
three-dimensional man standing as the Door.” He will become consciously aware
of himself as that conscious experience of Reality which includes no
distortions of any kind—the Christ-consciousness, the means by which God, or
Conscious Being, experiences Its Infinity.

Therefore, those in your experience who are attempting to “help” you see that
what is unfolding here in your experience is the Christ-consciousness revealing
Itself, are correct to that degree. However, they are incorrect in attempting
to “help” you see that an individuality by the name of Raj is an illusory part
of this experience.

Their view is still so limited—in spite of the grandness and infinity of the
view they see currently, as opposed to what they saw originally—that you would
be foolish to use their vantage point as your own.

It is true that you are not participating in spiritualism. You are not
communicating with a soul that has “passed on.” You are not speaking to an
individuality still befuddled by the three-dimensional illusion of birth and
death who thinks that he was ever born or ever died.

I am not the medium through which the Christ-consciousness is revealing Itself
as your conscious experience of Being. But, I do exist, as does every other
individualization who has existed as an infinite aspect of Fourth-dimensional
Conscious Being.

There is infinite progression, even beyond the partial, three-dimensional-only
view. It is simply ignorance—the inability to see infinitely—which would make
one think that once the “mortal dream” is grown out of, there does not continue
to be the infinite unfolding of Being as Conscious Being. This is true before
or after the experience called death.

It is quite accurate that it is not possible for those who believe that they
have been born to communicate with those who believe that they have died. These
are two different states of the three-dimensional-only frame of reference. It
is part of the distortion of that finite view which makes it seem as though
some part of one’s infinitude (those who have “passed on”) is not available to
him as his conscious experience.

There are infinitely more individualizations of Being who are Awake than there
are those who are “asleep.” it is ridiculous to believe that communication with
them is impossible.

Be very wise, and do not bother to waste your time trying to accommodate the
three-dimensional viewpoints of those around you. Do not allow yourself to give
authority to anything outside of your own demonstrated conscious experience of
Reality, of Fourth-dimensional Being, under any circumstances.

PAUL: Thank you very much, Raj.

RAJ: You are welcome, Paul. Good-bye.

[^1]: John 10:9.

