---
title: Apr 8, 2017
ref: "W59, W60, and W61 I Am the Light of the World"
---

Good evening, or should I say good morning
because here it is half past midnight, the beginning of Palm Sunday
here. And before I go into anything, I want to begin by saying I love
you. Whoever is hearing my voice right now, I love you.

Now, loving you is not a matter of me having highly spiritual thoughts
about your divinity. It isn&rsquo;t me thinking anything about you at
all. It isn&rsquo;t about anything I&rsquo;ve learned. It&rsquo;s about
my nature. It&rsquo;s about my Being. It&rsquo;s about what God is Being
right where I am. Loving is the same for you, for everyone. It&rsquo;s
not about the most masterful, spiritual, intellectual ideas that you can
embrace another with. You know, it&rsquo;s a matter of Soul. It&rsquo;s
a matter of soul more than a matter of Mind. This is important.

You are the direct expression of God. All of what God Is, is expressed
and embodied in you. You, if you didn&rsquo;t think so much, would find
that you Know the Truth and that as the presence of Soul, you feel
everything deeply and meaningfully. But, for the most part, you&rsquo;re
caught in fear and doubt, self-doubt, anxiety, the one bullied by
circumstances beyond his control. And so, it&rsquo;s hard to feel loved,
and it&rsquo;s hard to remember that you are. But I am reminding you
right now that no matter how overwhelmed you might be feeling at this
moment, I love you. And because I love you, I care to find the way to
reveal to you that your suffering is illegitimate. I feel the need to
not be at rest until you are no longer suffering from anxiety and fear
and insecurity and jealousy and the constant need to be in a state of
defense.

This is my Function. And, in the final analysis, it is your Function as
well. But a shift must occur, a shift in which you are released from
inner self-defense, self-protection, anxiety, and on and on, to the
point where you feel safe enough and secure enough to let love out,
which is what I am doing. It is my Function, and it is your Function.

Now, on what has become Palm Sunday, I entered Jerusalem on a
donkey&mdash;no bullet-proof SUV with flags denoting my importance
blowing in the wind on the bumpers of the car. Simple. Because position
was not what was being expressed. Love was. Common down-to-earth
intimate caring, one to another as equals&mdash;as those who equally
deserve to be loved, and who equally deserve to extend love without
fear.

The simplicity of it needs to be understood, because the simplicity of
you in your capacity to fulfill your Function of being the Presence of
Love that blesses your Brother, is your Birthright, is your Function, is
your joy, is your fulfillment. Nothing complicated, nothing that
requires intellectual brilliance.

Always the answer to problems comes in the simple recognition of the
Truth, and it never comes from some spiritual, intellectual argument or
thought that is equal to the challenge that is causing dissention and
fear and doubt and turmoil and jealousy and on and on and on. You
don&rsquo;t have to find a truth equal to the apparent ferocity of the
problem. You have to shift; you have to find your capacity to be the
Presence of Love, to be the most important thing instead of defense
against the enemy.

Now, during the week between Palm Sunday and what you call Easter
Sunday, I spent a lot of time with my brothers and sisters, with my
fellowman, you know, in the neighborhood so-to-speak. It wasn&rsquo;t
some formal religious event; it was camaraderie, it was sharing, it was
interacting, it was me responding to concerns with the illumination of
Truth. It was Family! You see?

Now, during the week, someone asked me, &ldquo;Which of God&rsquo;s
commandments was most important?&rdquo; And the Bible relates my answer
this way, quite accurately, &ldquo;Love the Lord your God with all your
heart, all your soul, and all your mind.&rdquo;[^1] This is the first and
greatest commandment. The second is just as important, &ldquo;Love your
neighbor as yourself.&rdquo;[^2] All the other commandments and the
teachings of the prophets are based on these two &hellip; t-w-o.

Now, what I want to point out is that this is an explanation, for lack
of better words, of the mechanics of the holy instant, of the practice
of the two-step where you &hellip; step one: shut up. Where you silence
all of your theories, all of your conclusions, all of your
reasoning&rsquo;s that have arisen out of fear and the best you can do
based on your experience. You shut it up, and you reach beyond that to
the Holy Spirit or the Father or me to ask, &ldquo;What is the truth
here?&rdquo; Not what is the truth about the problem, but, &ldquo;What
is the truth that shows that the problem is not valid and that I
don&rsquo;t need to behave as though it is.&rdquo; And then, being
silent and listening for the answer from the Father or the Holy Spirit
or me.

Love the Lord your God with all your heart, all your soul and all your
mind. In other words, silence human will in you, silence the chattering
of your fearful mind and turn your attention to God &hellip; Love the
Lord your God with all your heart. In other words, with all of your
attention, you let that be more important than the reacting to things the
way you are perceiving them. And you listen. And when the answer comes,
it&rsquo;s an answer that changes you and changes your behavior and
changes your perspective so that you are with your Brothers in a new
way, which is the description of the second commandment which is just as
important &hellip; Love your neighbor as yourself. You see?

Now, you are faced with circumstances [chuckles] in the world today that
seem to grab your attention&mdash;there is your attention! But where
does your attention need to be? Not on what the world is attempting to
suck you in with, if I may put it that way, not with the situation as
others are perceiving it and encouraging you to perceive it. No! You, if
you want your peace, are going to have to use some self-discipline and
govern where you&rsquo;re going to give your attention. And you must
understand that until you do this, until you seek of the Father to know
what the Father&rsquo;s Will is, until you seek of the Father what the
Father&rsquo;s perspective is, until you seek of the Father to know in
the world you&rsquo;re looking at what He is being there in spite of
what you are afraid is there, you will not be in your peace, and you
will not be where the answer can register for you &hellip; register with
you. It&rsquo;s that simple. And that&rsquo;s what, from a standpoint of
reasoning, can justify your giving your attention over to the Father in
spite of the circumstances.

Now, during this coming week, I want to bring your attention to Lesson
59 and Lesson 60 and Lesson 61 in the Workbook of A Course In Miracles
because, believe it or not, it addresses exactly what we&rsquo;re
talking about. And it is a different source of information than you will
get from the media. And it is a source of information which if you will
embrace and embody it, will allow you to address what the media is
saying with perspective and with Love for your Brothers and Sisters of
the sort that will open the door for correction, for healing, for
transformation to occur.

Now, Lesson 59 and 60 are reviews. And the very first Review is
entitled:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&ldquo;*God goes with me wherever I go.*&rdquo;[^3]
</div>

Love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul and mind. Well there it
is in the acknowledgement.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&ldquo;*God goes with me wherever I go.*&rdquo;

How can I be alone when God always goes with me? How can I be doubtful
and unsure of myself when perfect certainty abides in Him?
</div> 

Now, the fact is that in the middle of stress and distress that
doesn&rsquo;t seem to be the truth at all, and it seems to be pie in the
sky, nonsense, hard to get into the feeling of, but continue to present
yourself with this perspective because without it your perspective will
not be able to change without great difficulty.

Continuing&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
How can I be disturbed by anything when He &hellip;
</div> 

God

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; rests in me in absolute peace? How can I suffer when love and
joy surround me through Him?
</div> 

Now, love and joy don&rsquo;t surround you through the media these days.
Expect it &hellip; and so, indulge in it carefully, briefly and
certainly do it with an unwillingness to give it your allegiance.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Let me not cherish illusions about myself.
</div>

Well, a few of the illusions that you have about yourself is that
your perceptions are accurate, your judgments are accurate, indeed
things are going on that are wrong, and you have no ability to do a
single thing about it because you are so inconsequential. Therefore, you
are confident that you have justification to be afraid and to indulge in
the fear, to give your allegiance to it. But you don&rsquo;t have to.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Let me not cherish illusions about myself.
</div> 

Be willing to let go of them, be willing to shift and to ask for and to
be willing to stand in receipt of the Father&rsquo;s Perspective which
involves no illusion.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I am perfect because God goes with me wherever I go.
</div> 

You know, God doesn&rsquo;t go with you as a companion, walking along
side you with His arm around you as a father figure, who will protect
you, who needs protection. The Father goes with you wherever you go
because the Father is what is moving there wherever you&rsquo;re going.
You have no existence separate from God moving, from God being. And you
have no mind with which to experience it that isn&rsquo;t the Mind of
God even though you use your imagination to demonstrate to yourself that
you do, to supposedly prove to yourself that you do. But it&rsquo;s not
the truth.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I am perfect because God goes with me wherever I go.
</div> 

Why is that important: I am perfect? It&rsquo;s important because your
fear arises out of a fundamental belief or idea or thought that you are
not perfect, that you are flawed. You see? Oh, that you&rsquo;re a
sinner. You see?

Well, you&rsquo;ll never abandon that state of mind as long as you honor
it. And you will honor it until you&rsquo;re willing to consider that
you are perfect &hellip; that you are perfect! Because, if you exist, if
you draw a breath, if you lift a finger, God is being that and nothing
else. And this is the truth that counteracts and contradicts the lie,
the belief that creates all the illusions that are frightening you to
death. You see?

Love the Lord your God with all your heart. Bring your full attention
and your full willingness to Him. That&rsquo;s the first part of the
holy instant. This is the nitty-gritty of what it means. And it means
you must do it no matter what the media says, no matter what so and so
is doing or not doing, no matter how poorly you think of yourself, no
matter how convinced you are that there is no justification for you to
have a better experience.

Now, the next Review Lesson is:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*&ldquo;God is my strength. Vision is His gift.&rdquo;*
</div>

You see? We&rsquo;re still on the first part of the two-step: Loving the
Lord thy God with all your heart.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Let me not look to my own eyes to see today.
</div>

[Chuckles] Forget about your best judgments, forget about your pet
theories, forget about whatever it is you&rsquo;re convinced about at
the moment. Allow yourself not to look with your own eyes to see today.
How? By inviting a different perspective, by stepping outside of the
structures of your beliefs, which you have cultivated or others have
cultivated for you. Be willing to step out into what isn&rsquo;t
governed by your beliefs.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Let me not look to my own eyes to see today. Let me be willing to
exchange my pitiful illusion of seeing for the vision that is given by
God.
</div>

&ldquo;Father, what is the more of what You&rsquo;re being right here
than what I&rsquo;m seeing? What is the sole capacity to feel the truth
of Creation that I am confronted with instead of what my fearful
perspective is causing me to feel?&rdquo; Listen again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Let me be willing to exchange my pitiful illusion of seeing for the
vision that is given by God. Christ's vision is His gift&hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; You see? Christ&rsquo;s vision is God&rsquo;s gift. My vision
is God&rsquo;s gift. That same gift is given you and nothing less. That
is His vision that He gives all of us equally.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Christ's vision is His gift, and He has given it to me.
</div> 

He has given it to you. He has given it to you. The gift is made
irrevocably. It&rsquo;s done. But you must be willing to reach for it,
to yield to it, something that happens naturally when you get rid of the
rod you&rsquo;ve put up your backbone to make yourself stand straight
and tall and strong in your own right. When humility comes, you relax,
you become quite flexible, and you are not using any part of you, or
your body, as defense. And when the wall of defense breaks down, why,
the Truth floods in naturally, or, you could say, you relax into it so
that it registers with you. That&rsquo;s the way it works because
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Christ's vision is His gift, and He has given it to [you]. Let me
&hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; call upon this gift today, so that this day may help me to
understand eternity.
</div>

So that this day, and I&rsquo;m going to say, this place and this
encounter, and this involvement in the context of the Father&rsquo;s
vision helps me to understand eternity.

Continuing with the first part of the two-step, the first part of the
holy instant:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&ldquo;**God is my Source.**&rdquo; I cannot see apart from Him.
</div>

Well, you know that you think you can. You know that you thought you
have. And you know that that hasn&rsquo;t reduced suffering&mdash;not
permanently, not with stability.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I can see what God wants me to see.
</div> 

Oh, oh, ooh.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I can see what God wants me to see.
</div> 

That&rsquo;s a mouthful when it&rsquo;s coming out of your mouth. But if
it doesn&rsquo;t come out of your mouth, you won&rsquo;t be in a
position of, I&rsquo;m going to say, owning your divinity.

Part of my return to Jerusalem was to clearly express who I was, the Son
of God, unequivocally, clearly, humbly. And that&rsquo;s what each of
you is called upon to do. And so you say &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I can see what God wants me to see. I cannot see anything else.
</div> 

At least not actually, imaginatively perhaps. You can fool yourself with
flimsy thought forms, but you cannot actually see anything else but what
God wants you to see. Nothing else is seeing. Everything else is
imagination.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Beyond His Will lie only illusions. It is these I choose when I think I
can see apart from Him.
</div> 

True, isn&rsquo;t it? You know that when you&rsquo;re seeing these other
things, you&rsquo;re not connected with the Father; the Father is the
furthest thing from your mind, and you are not looking in a joined, in a
consciously joined state.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is these &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; illusions &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; I choose when I try to see through the body's eyes. Yet the
vision of Christ has been given me to replace them. It is through this
vision that I choose to see.
</div> 

*That* is the initial act of the two-step, of the holy instant.
Let&rsquo;s be very clear about the simplicity of it but also the fact
that what makes it simple is, there are no alternatives. The alternative
of thinking for yourself does not fit here, does not exist.

The next Lesson is:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*&ldquo;God is the light in which I see.&rdquo;* I cannot see in darkness.
God is the only light. Therefore, if I am to see, it must be through
Him.
</div> 

You see, all of these are clear arguments, clear statements sharing with
you the fact that your own best thinking is not of any value to you. In
fact, it must be set aside so that you can hear of God what is the
Truth, and let that replace your beliefs, replace those things which are
causing you to suffer.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I have tried to define what seeing is, and I have been wrong.
</div> 

Oh, yes. &ldquo;Yes, seeing is what I experience when I reason things
through and find the logical order between this and that and the other
thing so that I understand the structure which makes what I&rsquo;m
looking at dependable and solid and real. And I will abide by the
structures which I have imaginatively put in place to define what
I&rsquo;m looking at.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I have tried to define what seeing is, and I have been wrong.
</div> 

Now, the ego will tell you that that&rsquo;s justification right there
for stopping the practice of the holy instant. It will tell you that
that&rsquo;s insulting, and God wouldn&rsquo;t insult you. God
wouldn&rsquo;t put you in that position. But the fact is that it&rsquo;s
not insulting at all. It&rsquo;s a simple sharing of what&rsquo;s of
value and what isn&rsquo;t so that the valueless can simply be set down,
abandoned willingly because you want to know the Truth.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Now it is given me to understand that God is the light in which I see.
Let me welcome vision &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; instead of resisting it, instead of preferring my vision in
[chuckles] the illumination of my imagination.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Let me welcome vision and the happy world it will show me.
</div> 

See, we&rsquo;re beginning to turn a corner here; we&rsquo;re beginning
to [big sigh] let a shift occur. And as I said, during this coming week,
not just because it&rsquo;s the period between Palm Sunday and Easter
Sunday, but because circumstances in the world are calling for you to
forget what we&rsquo;re talking about, forget these ideas of Truth and
forget the simple practice of the holy instant.

Next Review Lesson:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*&ldquo;God is the Mind with which I think.&rdquo;*
</div> 

&ldquo;Oh, no it isn&rsquo;t! [Laughs] I&rsquo;ve been thinking my
thoughts a long time. And you know what? I&rsquo;ll prove it to you. If
I can sit down and ask to know what God&rsquo;s thoughts are, then who
is it that&rsquo;s asking? Obviously it isn&rsquo;t God asking God
what&rsquo;s true! That proves that I have a mind of my own.&rdquo; No
it doesn&rsquo;t! It simply proves that you have been able to imagine an
explanation that makes sense to you and that you believe. But the fact
is that when you actually dare to practice the holy instant, when you
actually dare to become still, to abandon your thinking and, in that
silence, you express a simple thought, &ldquo;Father, what do I need to
know? Father, what is the truth here? Father, what is the correction for
this problem?&rdquo; When you do that and then stay in the silence with
full attentiveness, the answer will come, revelation will occur and
infilling will happen and that will be the demonstration of the fact
that God&rsquo;s Mind is different from what you imagined your mind was
and is a natural state for you if you don&rsquo;t abandon it.

Again:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I have no thoughts I do not share with God. I have no thoughts apart
from Him, because I have no mind apart from His. As part of His Mind, my
thoughts are His and His Thoughts are mine.
</div>

[Chuckling] That doesn&rsquo;t mean that the thoughts you
have&mdash;been having unjoined &mdash;are His, and then His thoughts
are yours as well. No.

Paul has practiced a little trick, you might say, when he asks me,
&ldquo;What is your perspective.&rdquo; He noticed that the second,
third, and fourth letter of the word &ldquo;your&rdquo; is
&ldquo;our.&rdquo; And so, many times he says, &ldquo;What is (y)our
perspective,&rdquo; meaning, &ldquo;What is your perspective that is at
the same time my true perspective?&rdquo; In that sense, &ldquo;yo-our
perspective&rdquo; is mine, which is also his, and it is different from
the perspective he has when he&rsquo;s choosing to think all by himself
for himself. You see?

And so, continuing our Palm Sunday to Easter Sunday practice of Loving
the Lord your God with all your heart, all your soul, and all your mind
and loving your neighbor as yourself.

The next Review Lesson 60 says:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*&ldquo;God is the Love in which I forgive.&rdquo;*
</div>

There is the communication, the communion with God, the Oneness with God
that is experienced is never private. It transforms your perspective
about everything. And if you are embracing the perspective, it will
change your behavior attitudinally as well as physically. Where? In the
world, in your relationships with your Brother and Sister&mdash;your
fellowman.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God does not forgive because He has never condemned. The blameless
cannot blame, and those who have accepted their innocence see nothing to
forgive. Yet forgiveness is the means by which I will recognize my
innocence.
</div>

You simply can&rsquo;t experience being innocent all by yourself on a
nice little pedestal even if it&rsquo;s only a quarter of an inch high
so that nobody notices it, how much better you are, how much more
perfect you are.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Forgiveness is the means by which I will recognize my innocence.
</div> 

In my forgiveness of my fellowman, I will recognize my innocence, I will
experience it. Another way of saying it is I will make it my own. I
won&rsquo;t ever again claim an innocence separate and apart from my
Brothers or Sisters. I will never let innocence make a Brother a
stranger.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Forgiveness is the means by which I will recognize my innocence. It is
the reflection of God's Love on earth.
</div> 

*Do not forget this!* None of what this Course is teaching is a means of
escaping this earth, the place where Love is embodied when one is led by
the Father. Without the act of Brotherhood, innocence is nonexistent.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It will bring me near enough to Heaven that the Love of God can reach
down to me and raise to my home &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; where God can reach down to you and register with you, not just in
God your mind, but in your soul so that you are changed, so that you are
able to embrace, so that you are able to engage in glorifying your
Brother. And you know what? It may be as simple and as uncomplicated as
communicating to a Brother or a Sister, &ldquo;Hey, you&rsquo;re not
alone. Hey, I care. Don&rsquo;t forget, if you have a need, give me a
call.&rdquo; Sometimes it&rsquo;s that &hellip; oh, not glorious, not
attention getting, not something that obviously is impressive of you as
an ego. You see?

The next Review Lesson is:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*&ldquo;God is the strength in which I trust.&rdquo;* It is not my own
strength through which I forgive.
</div>

No. [chuckles] When through your own strength you engage in forgiving,
you are actually engaged in manipulation because there is no love in it.
There is no you, being from your Soul, your capacity to feel the
divinity of everything.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is through the strength of God in me, which I am remembering as I
forgive. As I begin to see, I recognize His reflection &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; where?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; on earth&hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; right there in my fellowman, right there in the one whom I
wanted to put a wall between the two of us because of how I determined
him to be unjoined.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I forgive all things because I feel the stirring of His strength in me.
And I begin to remember the Love I chose to forget, but which has not
forgotten me.
</div>

I mentioned in the beginning here that I love you, and that it amounts
to caring because I do not want to see you hurting as a result of
something that&rsquo;s totally fabulous, of the nature of a
fable&mdash;imaginary. And I am not capable of watching you suffer
without feeling the need to correct it, to do whatever it takes to
illuminate the illusory nature and, therefore, the fallacy of the fable
so that you can say, &ldquo;Wow! [Laughs] How did I ever think that was
possible? It&rsquo;s so clear that it&rsquo;s not.&rdquo; And
you&rsquo;re free.

Involvement is the nature of Brotherhood, and it evolves from or arises
out of the need to be the presence of Love. And when there is suffering
going on, that need is felt with great strength.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I forgive all things because I feel the stirring of His strength in me.
</div> 

When you feel that, you will have to be wise so that you don&rsquo;t
begin to think that this is emotion coming from your false sense of
yourself and that, therefore, it&rsquo;s ego, and you had better stop,
that such intense feeling cannot possibly be divine. But listen again:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I forgive all things because I feel the stirring of His strength in me.
</div> 

That strength in you could be interpreted as a humongous
&ldquo;No!&rdquo; to the problem or a humongous &ldquo;Yes!&rdquo; to
the solution. Either way, it&rsquo;s the same thing, and you must be
willing to stay with the strength of it without embellishing it with the
belief that this is just your ego and that you have somehow become
confused. When that happens, when you feel the stirring of strength, His
strength in you, stay attentive in the holy instant even more carefully.

The next Review Lesson is, naturally:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*&ldquo;There is nothing to fear.&rdquo;*
</div> 

Now, when you are in a state of fear, when world conditions and the
behaviors of people or the unexpected behavior of your body causes you
to be engulfed with fear and anxiety and anger and frustration, the one
thing that is most distressing is that you&rsquo;re not able to simply
be Yourself &hellip; you&rsquo;re not able to simply be Yourself. Being
Yourself means, you in a state of relaxation, where you&rsquo;re not on
guard, where you are not carrying with you a bunch of defenses at the
ready, where in simplicity, you don&rsquo;t have to be on guard, and you
can just simply express the love that you are and the intelligence that
you know you are. You see?

And so, as you engage in the two-step and, as you hear the
Father&rsquo;s Voice, and as transformation occurs, and your perception
shifts, you become aware that there is nothing to fear. And you find
yourself being returned to the place where, for lack of better words,
you can just be You, where you can be [big sigh] oh, Real.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
How safe the world will look to me when I can see it!
</div> 

Meaning, when I can see it for what it truly is, Creation.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It will not look anything like what I imagine I see now. Everyone and
everything I see will lean toward me to bless me. I will recognize in
everyone my dearest Friend.
</div> 

I know, you say you won&rsquo;t be able to do that until the world
changes, or it isn&rsquo;t quite as severe as it is right now. But mind
you, you&rsquo;re not looking at it and seeing that joined in any way
with That which has perspective that&rsquo;s true. And that is what the
holy instant accesses.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What could there be to fear in a world that I have forgiven, and which
has forgiven me?
</div> 

Well, how have you forgiven the world? You&rsquo;ve forgiven it by
abandoning your definitions of it&mdash;your sorry definitions of
it&mdash;so that you might ask of the Father, &ldquo;What is the truth
here?&rdquo; And then be infilled with the experience of what the truth
is.

Now, the next Review Lesson is an encouragement:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*&ldquo;God's Voice speaks to me all through the day.&rdquo;*
</div> 

God&rsquo;s Voice speaks to me all through the day. Of course:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is not a moment in which God's Voice ceases to call on my
forgiveness to save me.
</div> 

It&rsquo;s your Function. It&rsquo;s my Function to give voice to the
Father. That is called co-creation.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is not a moment in which God's Voice ceases to call on my
forgiveness to save me. There is not a moment in which His Voice fails
to direct my thoughts, guide my actions &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; where? Your actions up in your head? No. Your actions &ldquo;in
the world,&rdquo; in your relationships with others and with your
world.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is not a moment in which His Voice fails to direct my thoughts,
guide my actions and lead my feet.
</div> 

&ldquo;Oh, I know the way to go. I&rsquo;ve been there a million times.
I know the way to go.&rdquo; That&rsquo;s arrogance, that&rsquo;s
independence, and you&rsquo;re bound to stub your toe on life when Life
moves in a way you didn&rsquo;t expect or anticipate because it&rsquo;s
not there to conform to your definition or what you have come to know
through experience.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I am walking steadily on toward truth. There is nowhere else I can go,
because God's Voice is the only Voice and the only Guide that has been
given to His Son.
</div>

That&rsquo;s the only Voice. A poem says:

<div markdown="1" class="well poem">
Shepherd, show me how to go <br/>
O&rsquo;er the hillside steep, <br/>
How to gather, how to sow, <br/>
How to feed Thy sheep. <br/>
I will listen for Thy voice, <br/>
Lest my footsteps stray; <br/>
I will follow &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; I will follow. Isn&rsquo;t that insulting? I will follow not
lead &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well poem">
&hellip; and rejoice <br/>
All the rugged way.[^4]
</div> 

Why would you rejoice all the rugged way? Because when you follow the
Holy Spirit, when you let God&rsquo;s Voice lead you, the rugged way is
not rugged. You see, that&rsquo;s the holy instant in action.
That&rsquo;s what it&rsquo;s about.

The next:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*&ldquo;I am sustained by the Love of God.&rdquo;*  As I listen to God's
Voice&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; not the media, not my own loud, fearful, angry, arrogant,
selfish, bitter thoughts &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; I am sustained by His Love.
</div> 

Why? Because it infills you, because you have invited it, because
that&rsquo;s where you have brought your attention, and your attention
is like an open cup, a receptacle, that with which to receive.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[He did not read this sentence: As I open my eyes, His Love lights up
the world for me to see.] As I forgive, His Love reminds me that His Son
is sinless.
</div> 

Now, it doesn&rsquo;t just mean you. You recognize that His Son, His
Expression, that which is His Creation is sinless, fabulously perfect.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And as I look upon the world with the vision He has given me, I remember
&hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; that I am His Son.
</div>

That is the message of the Passover, where the acknowledgement and
embrace and the release of resistance to one&rsquo;s divinity occurs.
That&rsquo;s the point.

And then, we have Lesson 61, which is not a Review.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*&ldquo;I am the light of the world.&rdquo;*

Who is the light of the world except God's Son?
</div>

Now, mind you, God is the Light with which you see. God is that which
illumines everything you see, to you, as what it truly is. But:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Who is the light of the world except God's Son?
</div>

You see, the second part of the two-step, the new behavior that occurs
as a result of willingly letting go of all of your confidences, all of
your theories, all of what you&rsquo;ve been taught in favor of
performing your Function as co-creator with God by asking of God,
&ldquo;What is the truth?&rdquo; so that it might be revealed to you,
and you can confirm it by your behavior, by your actions. That&rsquo;s
where the rubber hits the road. That&rsquo;s where Reality is
actualized, let&rsquo;s put it that way.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Who is the light of the world except God's Son? This, then, is merely a
statement of the truth about yourself. It is the opposite of a statement
of pride, of arrogance, or of self-deception. It does not describe the
self-concept you have made. It does not refer to any of the
characteristics with which you have endowed your idols. It refers to you
as you were created by God. It simply states the truth.
</div>

You as the Son or Daughter of God exist for the purpose of giving voice
to your Father/Mother/Your Source/That which Is/All there Is of You and,
although, it doesn&rsquo;t seem to satisfy an ego need for individual,
separate, independent authority, and importance, when you allow that
natural flow of God into Expression right where you are, you will have
the experience of coming Home. And you will understand, you will feel,
the meaning of the words that the Course is expressing and that I am
explaining.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To the ego, today's idea &hellip;
</div>

&ldquo;I am the light of the world.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is the epitome of self-glorification.
</div>

&ldquo;Glory, hallelujah!&rdquo; The ego loves it. And the ego will take
hold of it if it can.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
But the ego does not understand humility, mistaking it for
self-debasement.
</div>

You see? Oh, yeah, oh, it&rsquo;s humiliating not to have any authority.
It&rsquo;s humiliating to be the mouth piece for something else, just
the delivery boy, the messenger girl. [Laughing] But when you&rsquo;re
delivering the glory of God and everyone experiences the glory of God as
the event that is happening, it matters not one whit whether the truth
was delivered by you and not authorized by you. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Humility consists of accepting your role in salvation and in taking no
other.
</div> 

You see? Not opting for options.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is not humility to insist [that] you cannot be the light of the world
if that is the function God assigned to you.
</div>

You see? This is what needs to be remembered. This is what Passover week
is geared to the revelation of, and the support of.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is only arrogance that would assert this function cannot be for you,
and arrogance is always of the ego.
</div>

Denying God&rsquo;s truth about you [chuckle] is arrogance and stupidity
and is nothing actual. It&rsquo;s all imaginary. It&rsquo;s all
flim-flam, farce, fake news.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
True humility requires that you accept today's idea &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; &ldquo;I am the light of the world&rdquo; &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; because it is God's Voice which tells you it is true.
</div> 

And this takes faith, and this takes trust. But God supplies the trust
as well when you do not argue against it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is a beginning step in accepting your real function &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; where?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; on earth. It is a giant stride toward taking your rightful
place in salvation. It is a positive assertion of your right to be
saved, and an acknowledgment of the power that is given you to save
others.
</div>

You don&rsquo;t save others by getting control of them and saving them
from their poor motives by inhibiting them from carrying them out
without ever transforming the thoughts and beliefs which have determined
the behavior.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You will want to think about this idea &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; &ldquo;I am the light of the world&rdquo; &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; as often as possible today. It is the perfect answer to all
illusions, and therefore to all temptation.
</div>

&ldquo;I am the light of the world.&rdquo;

This needs to be foremost in your mind. But you also need to remember
that:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&ldquo;God's Voice speaks to [you] all through the day.&rdquo;
</div> 

Why? So that you can give voice to His Voice. It&rsquo;s your Function.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You will want to think about this idea as often as possible today. It is
the perfect answer to all illusions, and therefore to all temptation. It
brings all the images you have made about yourself to the truth, and
helps you depart in peace, unburdened and certain of your
purpose&hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; unburdened of all of your definitions and theories and
righteous arrogant attitudes &hellip; unburdened by them and certain of
your purpose.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As many practice periods as possible should be undertaken today,
although each one need not exceed a minute or two. They should begin
with telling yourself:

I am the light of the world.<br/>
That is my only function.<br/>
That is why I am here.
</div> 

In other words, you are not here to be sitting in reaction to what the
media is delivering to you. You are here to choose first to look at what
is being presented with the Father through His eyes for the purpose of
learning how to be that which corrects the illusion, brings about
transformation and healing. Then after saying:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I am the light of the world.<br/>
That is my only function.<br/>
That is why I am here.

Then think about these statements for a short while, preferably with
your eyes closed if the situation permits. Let a few related thoughts
come to you, and repeat the idea to yourself if your mind wanders away
from the central thought.
</div>

You see, there&rsquo;s the discipline, the learning to bring your
attention and hold it there&mdash;holding it there where the revelation
is experienceable.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Be sure both to begin and end the day with a practice period &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; where you make the statement.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Thus you will awaken with an acknowledgment of the truth &hellip;
</div>

Don&rsquo;t wake up [chuckles] and check your iPhone or your cell phone
to see what the latest bad news is before you even put your feet on the
floor.

Begin your day &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; with an acknowledgment of the truth about yourself, reinforce
it throughout the day, and turn to sleep as you reaffirm your function
and your only purpose here&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; remembering that there is no real option. And you don&rsquo;t
want an option. Having an option means that your full allegiance is not
being given to God, which is the first part of the holy instant, and,
thus, you will lose the holiness of the instant and its blessing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
These two practice periods &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; when you waken, when you go to sleep &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; may be longer than the rest, if you find them helpful and want
to extend them.
</div>

Now, remember this:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Today's idea goes far beyond the ego's petty views of what you are and
what your purpose is.
</div>

That is the message of the Passover. That is the action of the holy
instant.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As a bringer of salvation, this is obviously necessary. This is the
first of a number of giant steps we will take in the next few weeks. Try
today to begin to build a firm foundation for these advances. You are
the light of the world. God has built His plan for the salvation of His
Son on you.
</div>

This is the truth. As &ldquo;far out&rdquo; and as unreasonable it might
seem to be to your present point of view, it is the truth, and it will
become less objectionable, more reasonable, the more frequently you
remind yourself by reviewing what we&rsquo;ve just gone over.

Again, I encourage you to let today, Palm Sunday, be the beginning of a
transformational week. And I look forward to being with you next time.

[^1]: Deuteronomy 6:5 &ndash; Luke 10:27 &ndash; Matthew 22:37 &ndash; Mark 12:30-31
[^2]: Leviticus 19:18 &ndash; Mark 12:31
[^3]: ACIM Workbook Lessons 59, 60 and 61
[^4]: [Hymnary](http://www.hymnary.org/text/shepherd_show_us_how_to_go)

