---
title: Apr 23, 2017
ref: "T10.1 Projection versus Extension"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

Well, it&rsquo;s been a week since Easter, plenty of time for everyone
to have given attention to going to the Father so that you can be with
your brother in a new way.

The message of Christmas, Easter, and the Resurrection is that you are
the salvation of the world. It sounds important, it sounds overwhelming,
but it is the simple message of A Course In Miracles. The practice of
the holy instant amounts to something utterly simple. It amounts to
becoming still, silencing the thinking and the busyness of the mind and,
in the quietness, being attentive, inquisitive, bringing an alive or
living attention to the state of being conscious.

And when that happens, when one engages in that, there is always one
result, and that is inspiration, revelation, the infilling of Truth, the
Father&rsquo;s perspective revealing something very important, revealing
as an experience to you that you are loved in an infinite way that
causes you to recognize that you are divine because that is the only
thing that would be worthy of such love.

And so, the Father&rsquo;s love uncovers to you your holiness. When you
let it in, when you let it sink in, and when you don&rsquo;t resist it,
you find that it causes you to see your brothers, your sisters, and the
world differently, through the Father&rsquo;s eyes, which causes you to
behave toward your brothers and sisters and the world quite differently.
At the bottom line, with love&mdash; not with criticism, not with
judgment, not with fear, not with hate &mdash;but with love.

Now, we talked about the practice of the two-step, the act of joining,
the act of yielding to the Father, yielding to the Holy Spirit. This is
what is called coming Home. It&rsquo;s retracing your steps, so to
speak, back through the processes and the imaginations and the
determinations and judgments that caused you to come to the conclusions
about yourself and the world that were quite independent from Reality.

And what I want to point out is, that as you experience practicing the
holy instant, as you experience Guidance, as you experience being loved
and become stronger in your faith, and you feel that you are making
headway, and your life is beginning to transform, something happens that
you are not expecting. And that something is, that as you get very close
to, shall I say, the gates to the Kingdom of Heaven, the threshold
wherein you truly let your divine Function infill you and replace all
that you thought you were, something happens: you arrive at a point, you
arrive at the undoing of the first step away from Home.

And that first step away from Home, if I may put it this way, is very
much like the first inhale of a cigarette, or the first inhale of
marijuana, or the first use of a drug. There is a hit, an unexpected hit
that is perceived to be incredible. And I will tell you that the first
hit of independence seemed incredible. And, when one arrives at the
point of having to walk through that to get to the other side, to arrive
fully back Home, one finds it very difficult because it is so
attractive.

Now, do not be discouraged because you will find the courage and the
stamina to follow through as long as you continue to choose to listen
for the Father&rsquo;s Voice, to listen for the Voice for Truth, which
we are calling the Holy Spirit, which is really your divinity which has
been held in trust while you have, as I&rsquo;ve put it, dallied with
the ego&mdash;the ego perspective.

Now, at times, it is not easy in moving over this threshold because what
happens when you arrive at a point where your ego sense of yourself sees
itself as having to give itself up? It&rsquo;s like extinction. And like
the saying goes, &ldquo;Extinction is forever.&rdquo; And I will tell
you&mdash;and you know&mdash;that when you arrive at that threshold, you
will do everything to avoid it. And how do you do it? The way you do it
is by asserting self-importance. You know, that&rsquo;s the last thing
you are going to give up on the way Home&mdash;self-importance.
It&rsquo;s called egotism, but you don&rsquo;t feel egotistical; you
feel the need to be important. And you feel that you have been able to
accomplish a certain amount of importance through your own personal
private effort. And so, you seem to think that it&rsquo;s possible to be
important on your own, when you&rsquo;re not.

Now, how do you express self-importance? By acting aggressively,
independently, overbearing with everyone. It&rsquo;s called defense. You
defend yourself. And you defend yourself by pretending to be better than
everyone else and putting them in their place and requiring of them in
one way or another to deal with you in a way that you feel is
respectful. And you tell everyone what respect is in terms of them
dealing with you.

So, the assertion of independence, the assertion of self-importance
becomes a very aggressive part of your experience in your dealing with
your world and those in your world. This is what happens at the
threshold of Awakening. It&rsquo;s important to understand this.

Now, &ldquo;I go before you to prepare a place for you.&rdquo;[^1]
That&rsquo;s the exact opposite of what you attempt to bring into play
at the threshold of Awakening. And that is what your habit gets in the
way of. You go to the Father, you might say, instead of going to your
brother to learn what the truth is. You prepare a place for what?
Your brother. And this is why you&rsquo;re the salvation of the
world&mdash;because you don&rsquo;t do it for yourself. It&rsquo;s very
simple. When you save your brother, you save yourself. But when you are
engaged in saving yourself, you&rsquo;re actually putting one foot into
the grave. In other words, independence acted out puts you in the
experience of time, and you lose the experience of eternity, which is
available to you when your brother comes before you in your mind.

I went to prepare a place for you. I did not go to prepare a place for
me and then come back for you. No. I went to prepare a place for you. You
were the focal point, you were the reason. Now, obviously, if saving
your brother saves you, then you are in need of your brother because
you&rsquo;re lost without your brother. And in fact, you&rsquo;re
experiencing being lost in this false experience of a span of time
between birth and death, as though birth is a possibility and death is a
possibility in the only context there is, which is eternality.

You need each other. And you need to feel the need. Because if you
don&rsquo;t feel the need, there&rsquo;s no compassion, there&rsquo;s no
connection, there&rsquo;s no holy reason for relating to each other. The
only reason for relating to each other is one of defense and
self-protection.

Now, why am I bringing this up? I&rsquo;m bringing it up certainly in
the context of Easter and the Resurrection and the Ascension and its
meaning. And I&rsquo;m bringing it up because you&rsquo;re observing in
the world today the exhibition of acts of self-defense, acts of
self-importance. You&rsquo;re watching the events which are, for lack of
better words, telling you of the end times, except that the end times
are a joyful thing. Because the end times are the times of moving across
the threshold, out of illusion, back into the conscious experience of
Reality, union with God because you are letting God&rsquo;s Mind be
yours in your every action and relationship during your day.

Independence is an act of making boundaries. Independence is in effect
the building of a wall that says, &ldquo;Everything inside this wall is
me and mine. And everything outside this wall is not me. It&rsquo;s
someone else. It&rsquo;s something else. It&rsquo;s something different.
It&rsquo;s something I don&rsquo;t have to relate to. And it&rsquo;s
something that must relate to me according to rules that I establish.
Because it&rsquo;s all foreign &hellip; it&rsquo;s all foreign. And so,
you hold your world as a material world to your sight, and you hold your
fellowman in the realm of enemy, in the realm of something foreign to
you.

This is what you are watching happening. Not just in the United States
but around your globe. The attempt is being made to segregate, to undo
the unity which was developing, to build walls and to treat each other
as foreign to each other. It is a mean-spirited attitude. There is no
love in it. And in this act, it is being forgotten that you all need
each other. At least, it&rsquo;s being forgotten by those who are in
charge because it doesn&rsquo;t suite or meet the criteria of success
that they have determined is important.

Now, what is important is for everyone, you, Paul, Susan, everyone in
the world who is not governing, who is not in the position of power to
remember that, indeed, you all need each other. And amongst yourselves
you know you need each other, and amongst yourselves you know what is
important. But the problem is that you&rsquo;re not governing. The
problem is that you&rsquo;re sitting around wondering what you can do in
the face of those who are in power, who have forgotten to be in touch
with what the human needs are. And you know what? At the bottom
line, the human needs are the divine needs that haven&rsquo;t been
forgotten &hellip; completely. And every single individual knows that
decency and respect and consideration and love are deserved, flat out,
no matter what, just because.

Those who see themselves as being governed need to take the government
back by putting their mouth where their Wisdom is, by not letting those
who have forgotten divine meaning, to give them words that reflect the
truth in the face of what they are presenting, which is undermining
peoples trust and faith and frightening them. The governed are becoming
uneasy, frightened because they have forgotten they have the power; they
have forgotten that they are who the government is supposed to give
voice to.

I&rsquo;m telling the Truth because I go to the Father, and I claim no
other Presence or Mind than the Father&rsquo;s, and I express that to
you. It is your Function to go to the Father and express what the Father
reveals in spite of the fact that those in power seem unwilling to hear
it.

It&rsquo;s very important for you to realize how much you need each
other and then help each other, stand up and voice your unwillingness to
support the building or establishment of walls and separation and the
definition of foreigner being applied to anyone different from you.
It&rsquo;s time to speak up so that there&rsquo;s another voice heard
&hellip; where? &hellip; in the land, in the world. Thy will be done as
in earth &hellip; as in Heaven so on earth. Thy will be done.

It&rsquo;s so important to engage in the practice of the holy instant
because, in the silencing of thoughts, you are silencing what you have
heard others say, you are silencing in your mind what you&rsquo;ve heard
on the television or in the news media or even in the fake news.
[Chuckles] You are silencing all of that. You&rsquo;re stepping into the
vestibule, so to speak, and bringing your attention beyond or outside of
all of that distracting busyness of the mind so that the actual Reality
of things can be revealed to you and lift you up in your Mind so that
you can see clearly and have Wisdom to engage your mouth with and then
be unafraid to say it and to say it out loud and to march, if necessary,
or to call those who represent you and tell them what you want them to
say.

You are the salvation of the world because you have a mouth, you have a
mind, I&rsquo;m going to say, which is capable of being filled with the
Thoughts or Ideas of God which, when embraced, will cause the shift to
occur.

Now, since last week, since Easter, Paul and I had a conversation. And
Paul was having trouble giving his attention to me all the time. And he
is still practicing doing that. And I want to share with you part of
what I said to him.

I said, &ldquo;We&rsquo;re not talking about deferring to me,
we&rsquo;re talking about deferring to us. We&rsquo;re not talking about
abandoning Paul, we&rsquo;re talking about abandoning privacy.
We&rsquo;re talking about invalidating &lsquo;I&rsquo; and restoring
&lsquo;us&rsquo; as the conscious experience of Being &hellip; of Being.
Not just a conscious experience of an hour during a Study Group or an
afternoon Gathering or a private conversation with Raj.&rdquo;

Well, after I said that, Paul got distracted with some thoughts about
something in real life that needed to be taken care of and began to
wonder how he was going to take care of it. And then he realized that he
had gotten distracted and came back.

He said to me, &ldquo;My attention went to the unfinished business of
such-and-such and what I need to do to resolve it.&rdquo; And I said to
him, &ldquo;Yes, but you caught it. You recognized the move to
independence. The point is, and you can see this, you withdrew from me.
It was the equivalent of being in a conversation with someone whose eyes
glaze over as he moves off into a reverie of thought, no longer relating
to you, unconscious of your relationship and the world in which
it&rsquo;s occurring. It causes you [chuckles] to want to shake his
shoulder and snap him back into the world.&rdquo;

I said, &ldquo;Independence is a private isolated state of mind which is
oblivious to everything but itself. In that state, you are unaware of
me, of God, and of the Kingdom of Heaven, which you are still in right
here with me, blinded by a reverie and a preoccupation with selfhood,
righteousness, accomplishment, and success in your own independent
right. You are a holy Son of God distracted by thoughts instead of being
grounded in the Ideas in the Mind of God which constitute Creation and
which it is your Function to experience and confirm by being conscious
of them. Being conscious of them means never being alone, never
thinking. It is time to abandon the practice of thinking in favor of
being the presence of attention. That is the Function of consciousness.
That is the holy instant in action.&rdquo;

Now, this is true of everyone, not just Paul. Everyone has the
capability, the capacity to engage in the holy instant. Everyone can
become still. It doesn&rsquo;t take training, it doesn&rsquo;t take a
degree, it doesn&rsquo;t take a special talent. Everyone can shut up.
Everyone can set aside everything for a short period of time and become
still and genuinely and earnestly ask for help.

Asking for help happens frequently in the middle of disasters or trials
or tribulations that are significant. And when in humility, one actually
does stop trying to take charge himself and says, &ldquo;Father, help
me.&rdquo; You know what? . . it&rsquo;s the equivalent to saying
&ldquo;Yes&rdquo; to God. Being open. And help is given. Restoration
occurs.

Now, it&rsquo;s everyone&rsquo;s need to be very alert, to notice when
isolation, wall building, judgment of foreignness to you begins to take
form in your mind, which causes you then to assert control over and
against that which is foreign to you. It&rsquo;s important for you to
notice when this is happening so you can stop and become still, give
your attention to the Father or the Holy Spirit or me and ask for help
and then continue to shut up with full attention &hellip; full humble
attention.

You are not going to learn how to be more skillfully independent. You
are going to learn how to be in a way that embraces&mdash;in the nature
of Love&mdash;everything so that you become a benign presence, a safe
haven for those who are still afraid. Unity, natural cohesiveness,
spontaneous cooperation globally is the norm to be reached for, to hold
out for, to affirm as the only acceptable choice.

The Voice for Truth says &ldquo;No&rdquo; to that which is not true.
Because it knows what is True. Because it has said &ldquo;Yes&rdquo; to
what is True. Your opportunity and task is to put yourself in the place
where the &ldquo;Yes&rdquo; to what is True is felt by you clearly
enough to act upon. And when you act upon it, your acts will be
recognizable as &ldquo;Brotherly Love&rdquo;. And the effect will be
unifying. But none of it will happen if no one gives voice to the Voice
for Truth, if no one expresses what the Father reveals when you desire
to know the Truth.

Now, I&rsquo;m going to read from page 234 in the Sparkly book.
It&rsquo;s Chapter 10&mdash;God and the Ego. And it&rsquo;s the 2nd
paragraph in the section entitled:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*Projection versus Extension*[^2]

My brother, you are part of God and part of me. When you have at last
looked at the ego&rsquo;s foundation without shrinking, you will also
have looked upon OURS.
</div>

What does that mean? It means that in order for you to look at the
ego&rsquo;s foundation without shrinking, you will have joined with me
or the Holy Spirit to recognize the Truth. You will have looked upon our
foundation, and that will allow you to look at the ego&rsquo;s
foundation without shrinking.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I come to you from our Father &hellip;
</div>

I go unto the Father to prepare a place for you, just like it is your
task to go to the Father to prepare a place for your brothers.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I come to you from our Father to offer you &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; What?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; everything again.
</div>

All that you have lost sight of when you gave preference to your own
definitions applied to Creation, different from the Fathers.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I come to you from our Father to offer you everything again. Do not
refuse it in order to keep a dark cornerstone hidden&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; oh, what&rsquo;s that dark cornerstone? Oh, it&rsquo;s the last
thing you&rsquo;re going to be willing to give up: self-importance.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Do not refuse &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the everything &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; in order to keep a dark cornerstone hidden, for ITS protection
will not save you. I GIVE you the lamp and I will go WITH you.
</div>

You give your brother the lamp as well and go with him. That means be
involved in the name of Brotherhood and in acts of Brotherhood. And let
your acts become the governing factors in spite of the misguided
governments that are attempting to control everything. I will tell you,
there are more of you who are in touch with what means something than
there are those who are only in touch with the almighty dollar as the
bottom line.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You will not take this journey alone. I will lead you to your true
Father, Who hath need of you, as I have.
</div>

That's what you need to be feeling toward your Brother. You feel toward
him &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; You will not take this journey alone. I will lead you to your
true Father, Who hath need of you, as I have.
</div>

You will lead him to the Father by virtue of giving voice to the
Father&rsquo;s Voice because you have been willing to no longer claim
and practice a so-called voice of your own.

What does it mean that the &ldquo;Father, Who hath need of you, as I
have&rdquo;? Well, it&rsquo;s very simple. You are the Father&rsquo;s
Offspring. You are the Father&rsquo;s Expression, and the Father needs
for you to Know it. The Father needs for you to not be ignorant of it
because you have been sidetracked by that initial draw on a cigarette or
that first use of a psychedelic drug. You see?

The Father hath need for what He is&mdash;to be Whole&mdash;because
it&rsquo;s impossible for it to be otherwise. And that means that those
who think it is otherwise need to experience the revelation of what is
True so they can abandon their theories and concepts and definitions.
You see? The Father hath need to be Sane, integrated because He is.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Will you not answer the call of love with joy?
</div>

The Easter message is to recognize the call of Love, which is for you to
go to the Father and to learn of the Father and to let the Father infill
you so that what you find yourself expressing is what the Father is
guiding you to express as part of His Movement of Creation.

Of course, to the ego this looks like extinction. Well, that which never
existed cannot become extinct, but everyone believes that their
independent selfhood is quite actual. And God&rsquo;s message is:
&ldquo;It&rsquo;s not. You have a real Mind; it is Mine. I have withheld
nothing from you of what I Am. It&rsquo;s your Birthright to be
experiencing It. And my Love will provide you with the ongoing means of
discovering It. And in your discovering It, you will be the means by
which your Brother is supported in discovering It.

Dropping down a paragraph.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To be alone is to be separated from infinity, but how can these be if
infinity has no end? No-one can be BEYOND the limitless because what has
no limits must be everywhere. There are no beginnings and no endings in
God, Whose universe is Himself.
</div>

There are no walls; there is no inside and outside. Be willing to stand
up and give Voice to the Truth that insides and outsides, us and them,
those who naturally belong and others called foreigners, these are
concepts that are invalid and must stop being expressed, embraced and
acted upon.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Can you exclude yourself from the universe, or from God Who IS the
universe?
</div>

No. You can&rsquo;t hold your Brother separate. And your Brother, even
if he thinks he can hold himself separate, cannot actually be separate
from you. And so, you go to the Father, and in and as the Father&rsquo;s
Presence, embrace your brother until his suffering has stopped. And lift
your voice up and do what it takes, which you will be guided to do by
the Wisdom in you to cause the current attempts to divide the world up
and to establish foreignness to stop. Be the voice which withholds the
approval and be the salvation of the world.

&ldquo;Wow, well, you know, I thought, you know, Jesus was crucified and
resurrected and then he ascended and then he&rsquo;s going to come
again, and we&rsquo;ll all be taken up.&rdquo; Well, yeah, you
didn&rsquo;t think you would have anything to do with it. But the
wonderful news is that you do have something to do with it. And the
means to do something about it is given to you.

And so, don&rsquo;t hold a grudge. Don&rsquo;t withhold your willingness
because you&rsquo;re having to do something you didn&rsquo;t expect.
Until you let go of the distractions which you employ that keep you from
seeing and recognizing your divinity, your brother&rsquo;s divinity, and
the Kingdom of Heaven that you&rsquo;re right in the middle of. Until
then, you have something to do because your ignorance will blind you,
and you will not step out of the realm of mortality into the actuality
of Eternality that you&rsquo;re in the middle of, part of, and governed
by actually right now.

It&rsquo;s time to say &ldquo;Yes&rdquo; to God. That&rsquo;s the real
definition of prayer. And when you say &ldquo;Yes&rdquo; to God, and God
fills you up, don&rsquo;t keep it a secret. Share it with your brother.
When you save your brother, you save yourself. That&rsquo;s another way
of saying, &ldquo;What you give, you get to keep.&rdquo;

God so loved the world that He gave His Son, begotten only of Him, to
every other Son and Daughter, begotten only of Him. And I so loved the
world that I expressed the Father&rsquo;s Love and continue to and
invite you to join me because it is your Birthright, it is your
Inheritance, it is your Function, and it is what will precipitate the
Movement over the threshold for you and your brothers and sisters.
It&rsquo;s transformation time.

I love you very much. And I look forward to being with you next time.

[^1]: Bible: John 14:2
[^2]: T10.1 Projection versus Extension

