---
title: Apr 30, 2017
ref: "M30 As for the Rest..."
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

Interesting times. Interesting experiences. Experiences not everyone is
prepared for. Experiences which cause concern on a much larger and a
more continuous scale than everyone is used to. And it&rsquo;s easy to
become overwhelmed.

So, tonight we&rsquo;re going to talk about a very simple point: one so
simple it seems unreasonable and one so simple that it gets overlooked.

Now, in the news today, at least on the internet, someone in an
editorial setting made the comment that it will take years to undo
damage from Trumps first hundred days. That idea could just as easily
have been expressed in the words, &ldquo;It&rsquo;s going to take years
for so-and-so or for me to undo the damage from the stroke that I
experienced, or so-and-so experienced. Or it will take years to undo the
damage from the loss of my father or my daughter or even from my beloved
pet. It&rsquo;s going to take years to [chuckling] undo the damage from
being a mortal,&rdquo;&mdash;any number of things that make a statement
that each one tends to believe that says, &ldquo;My Wholeness is not
available to me. My Wholeness was taken away from me, and it will take a
long time to recover it. I expect to recover it, but it will take
time.&rdquo; And that, although it is hopeful, is certainly more
depressing than an option that would be quicker.

The fact is that each one of you has had, what you would call, an
&ldquo;aha&rdquo; experience. Each one of you has had the experience of
discovering that you were suffering from a belief that wasn&rsquo;t true
and laboring under it unnecessarily.

A simple example is that, early on in Paul&rsquo;s experience, he worked
for Sears in the credit department. And one of the events that happens
in a credit department is that customers of Sears would apply for credit
at other companies, and those companies who were given Sears as a
reference, would call to get a rating of that person&rsquo;s account.
Paul thought that he was going to be called upon to rate it himself. And
he was very concerned that he would not rate correctly and cause the
person getting the rating to be hurt by it.

It took a while for it to register with him that, when the call came,
there were basically two or three things needed: &ldquo;How long had the
account been opened at Sears?&rdquo; &ldquo;How many payments had been
late?&rdquo; That didn&rsquo;t require an opinion at all; it was all
there in black and white on the account. And when Paul realized that it
was that simple, he was immediately relieved by an &ldquo;aha&rdquo;
experience. He wasn&rsquo;t called upon to do anything that would hurt
the customer. He wasn&rsquo;t called upon to do anything where he might
make a mistake or a false assessment. Nothing was required of him
personally.

Every single one of you has had the experience of learning something
that cancelled out a belief that had been negatively governing you. Now,
that didn&rsquo;t take a hundred years to correct. It happened in an
instant. And that is the point.

The sense of time, the sense of how long it will take to recover from
something perceived to be damaging, this is something no one needs to
labor under any longer! And we&rsquo;re going to take a look at why. And
what we&rsquo;re going to take a look at is nothing new. We&rsquo;re
just going to say it a little bit differently tonight.

Now, I&rsquo;ve said before that the only thing you are confronted with
is Reality, or the only thing you are confronted with is the Kingdom of
Heaven. Everyone hopes to Wake up some day and experience the Kingdom of
Heaven some day. But the point is that in this very moment you are in
the Kingdom of Heaven. The Kingdom of Heaven is the only thing
confronting you; therefore, it is in this very moment, in this very
instant, that you stand on the threshold of an &ldquo;aha&rdquo;
experience.

Now the simple fact is that you don&rsquo;t need to learn anything, you
don&rsquo;t have to become more educated, spiritually or otherwise.
Nothing is required of you except one simple thing: to shut up, to
become still. It means being willing to set the problem or the distress
on the back burner no matter how negative or dire it seems, no matter
how much you&rsquo;ve been frightened by it. You need to table it for a
moment &hellip; or for five minutes. You need to become still and enter
into the holy instant.

Like I said, we&rsquo;re not talking about anything new. The holy
instant &hellip; the instant of holiness &hellip; the instant of
Wholeness, which could also be called &ldquo;the Wholeness of
Now&rdquo;&hellip; the Wholeness of Now.

I&rsquo;ve also used the image of a funnel and have described the
process of meditating&mdash;in other words, of shutting up&mdash;as, if
you will imagine, a ball circling around at the top of the funnel, much
like the ball in a roulette wheel. And you know that when the ball is
spun, it goes round and round and round as long as it has momentum, and
it doesn&rsquo;t begin to descend.

Well, here&rsquo;s the thing: Will, the use of will, the use of
self-assertion, is the energy that moves the ball around in the funnel.
The more energy, the more willful one is, the higher in the funnel the
ball goes. But as willfulness diminishes, the ball begins to descend.

I&rsquo;ve also pointed out before that the only right use of will is to
choose not to use it. And, indeed, that is what the practice of the holy
instant accomplishes. And so, as you become still, as you shut up, as
you stop energizing your emotions with fear, with anxiety, and with a
need to be important, and a need to succeed in solving the problem
&hellip; as you are willing to set that down, the ball begins to descend
in the funnel, lower and lower and lower until, eventually, it arrives
at the bottom of the funnel and what happens? . . it falls out of the
funnel! Free fall now. Free fall. Infinite presence. It isn&rsquo;t even
falling, because there isn&rsquo;t a funnel to gauge whether it&rsquo;s
up or down. One finds oneself in the Presence of Mind, you might say, as
the Presence of Mind.

Now, the point is that right now, in the here and now where you are,
with whatever is going on in the room you&rsquo;re in, or the automobile
you&rsquo;re riding in, no matter where you are now, you&rsquo;re in the
middle of the Kingdom of Heaven. You are not working toward getting
well. You are not working toward Waking up. You are not working toward
dying and going to the Kingdom of Heaven. You are right now, in this
instant, filled with the capacity&mdash;with the capacity&mdash;to
recognize God &hellip; well, let&rsquo;s say, in the blossoms of Spring,
or in the flower on the table, or in the table that the vase is sitting
on, or in the carpet, or in the colors. All of it is the Presence of God
right here and right now&mdash;not off in the future&mdash;right here
and right now for you to have an &ldquo;aha&rdquo; experience of, as a
result of not assuming you know what anything means, so that you might
in the innocence of stillness and the presence of curiosity and the
expectation of seeing God have the &ldquo;aha&rdquo; experience of
Wholeness now.

This is where the attention needs to be. Not out there in the future,
not out there in an improved self, but in the one you are&mdash;the
Presence of Mind that you Are&mdash;that has the capacity to become
still, to disengage from the tension and intension&mdash;or
willfulness&mdash;to control things, and just become the stillness of
mind in which, what has been called, &ldquo;the still small voice of
God&rdquo; can be heard.

You see, you can fall through the funnel right now while you&rsquo;re
sitting in that chair or while you&rsquo;re washing the dishes or while
you&rsquo;re scratching your head. You see? The threshold is here. The
Wholeness of now is available.

And let&rsquo;s come back to our image of the funnel. As I said, through
the use of will, through the use of self-assertion, through the attempt
to be or become something, you cause your attention to circle higher and
higher in the funnel, keeping you, therefore, trapped in the confines of
the funnel. You think that you are supposed to manage to get your
attention up, up, up, up, infinitely high in the funnel. But the fact is
that, in abandoning the use of will, in the act of becoming
willing&mdash;not willful&mdash;willing to become still, to abandon
self-assertion, your attention begins to descend and ultimately fall out
of the funnel where there is no up or down, there is not higher or
lower, there is just Wholeness.

Now, the saying is that eternity is not endless time, but if you take
one second of time&mdash;we&rsquo;ll say the &ldquo;now&rdquo;&mdash;and
snuff it out, snuff out that one moment of time &hellip; that&rsquo;s
eternity. The simple fact is that, when you abandon self-assertion, when
you abandon thinking, when you abandon determining for yourself what
everything is, all by yourself, when willfulness leaves, eternity
becomes your experience. Deathless, unconflicted Being becomes yours.

Now mind you, this new experience of Being is going to happen while
you&rsquo;re sitting there in the chair or while you&rsquo;re washing
the dishes or whatever. It&rsquo;s going to happen here. It&rsquo;s
going to happen now because now is where the threshold of consciousness
is that you are &ldquo;perched at,&rdquo; if I may put it that way.

Now, the Course says that you must return Home, and the holy instant is
the means of doing it. But it also says you can&rsquo;t get there all
the way by yourself &hellip; that God takes the last step.

Well, let&rsquo;s look at the image of the funnel again. When you
finally fall out of the bottom of the funnel, that is not an assertive
action; that was an abandonment of assertion. And God takes the last
step by making clear to you&mdash;as your conscious awareness&mdash;the
Kingdom of Heaven as it is. Eternity as it is&mdash;not being endless
time.

God takes the last step by revealing to you your Wholeness and the
Wholeness of now. But I want you to be aware that all the time that
you&rsquo;ve been circling around in the funnel, the funnel has been an
imaginative structure sitting in the middle of the infinite Presence of
God, called Creation. And so, what God Is has been supporting you fully,
in spite of the definitions you&rsquo;ve created for yourself and that
you maintain. And, in the maintenance of them, you keep yourself high up
into the funnel.

And so, you fall out of the bottom of the funnel, and it&rsquo;s like
God catches you. But he catches you in the embrace that you have always
been held in because this imagination of a funnel never took you out of
Creation Itself. God takes the last step by revealing to you what has
been since the beginning&mdash;your Wholeness.

Each of you at every moment&mdash;no matter what drama or story is going
on in the funnel&mdash;each one of you at every moment stands in this
miraculous spot, this threshold of Awakening. Don&rsquo;t demean the
spot, and don&rsquo;t demean the experience you&rsquo;re in the middle
of: Spring, Summer, Fall, Winter, snow, flowers, leaves, green, red,
your fellowman, your Brothers and Sisters. All of it is present in its
pristine unaltered form, right here, right now. And it is these things
which you are to look for God in, instead of looking to whatever
technique or tool or power you might achieve and make your own so that
you can be better in control and save yourself from all the bastards out
there.

You have a better activity to engage in, one that reduces the practice
of will, one that allows you to arrive at the point of the funnel and
fall out to be caught by God and not lost, caught in the clear awareness
of Reality, the clear awareness of whatever a blossom is, or a green
leaf is, or a healthy leg or a healthy heart or the experience of a son
or a father or mother or a daughter who you&rsquo;d lost, or health that
you think it would be difficult to regain.  You stand&mdash;I&rsquo;m
going to use this word carefully&mdash;at the &ldquo;magical&rdquo;
moment of an &ldquo;aha,&rdquo; and I mean magical in the sense of a
wondrous unexpected experience of Truth.

Everyone needs to calm down and let themselves be present where they are
and look at it, look at everything with innocent eyes, without bringing
your preconceptions and confidences into play, because you want to see
the more of what God is being right there than you have been seeing.

It isn&rsquo;t going to take years to undo anything. It&rsquo;s going to
happen in the twinkling of an eye; it&rsquo;s going to happen in a
moment. &ldquo;Well, how long am I going to have to practice being
present with everything when all of this crazy stuff is going on, and I
need to be getting on to be taking care of it.&rdquo; You&rsquo;re
asking, &ldquo;How long am I going to have to engage in my Birthright of
being in that frame of mind where revelation can occur and my right Mind
can be returned to me. How long am I going to have to do that?&rdquo;
Well, the Course says, in so many words, &ldquo;Infinite patience brings
immediate results.&rdquo; Why? Because impatience is willfulness and
blocks the &ldquo;aha&rdquo;, blocks the miracle, blocks &hellip; what?
&hellip; the sudden shift of perception. It&rsquo;s your Birthright to
have sudden shifts of perception&mdash;miracles in which Truth replaces
a belief that you were confident about and trusted in.

And so, even though it feels unfamiliar and unnatural, you practice the
holy instant because that is you behaving consistently with your right
Mind and, therefore, by being in better alignment with That which
you&rsquo;ve been denying, the denial breaks down and reassociation
occurs &hellip; coming Home.

I do not spend too much time &hellip; I do not spend time unnecessarily
talking about the holy instant. I talk about it because it is essential,
because it is the key; it is the means of Waking up. I know, &ldquo; the
Course is very complicated.&rdquo; &ldquo;Oh, the Course is full of
Principles that you can&rsquo;t possibly embrace all at the same time.
It&rsquo;s going to take a hundred years to get it under your
belt.&rdquo; You&rsquo;re not supposed to get the Principles under your
belt. You&rsquo;re not supposed to memorize what it&rsquo;s all about.
You&rsquo;re supposed to let it all justify, if I may put it this way,
justify you&rsquo;re practicing the holy instant, practicing the
two-step. Maybe no one else is spending very much time talking about
this, expounding on, illuminating it, but here it is from the Course
itself.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*The Teachers Manual*[^1]

There is another advantage, and a very important one, in
referring decisions to the Holy Spirit with increasing frequency.
</div>

Well, to refer everything to the Holy Spirit with increasing frequency
means to be drawing from the practice of will and self-assertion, which
causes the ball to begin to naturally descend.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Perhaps you have not thought of this aspect, but its centrality is
obvious. To follow the Holy Spirit's guidance is to let yourself be
absolved of guilt.
</div>

Really, stop and think about it! Guilt stems from not being able to
succeed, to get to the upper most point of the funnel through the
stronger and stronger assertion of yourself and your will power. And you
are guilty because you&rsquo;re not up there, and you are guilty
because, by not being up there, everything is going to hell, and it must
be because you&rsquo;re not doing well enough.

In the peaceful quietness of your Being that&rsquo;s the simple truth.
And that becomes simply clear. It&rsquo;s easy to see. But to follow the
Holy Spirit&rsquo;s guidance is to let yourself be absolved of guilt.
Why? Because you&rsquo;re not trying to get to the top of the funnel
anymore, and you&rsquo;re not energizing movement away from that
threshold at the tip of the funnel where you fall out into infinite
presence as the infinite presence of Mind that God is being as You.
Continuing:

[It is the essence of the Atonement. It is the core of the curriculum.]
{: .omit}

The imagined usurping of functions not your own is the basis of fear.
Well, &ldquo;The imagined usurping of functions not your own,&rdquo;
what does that mean? It means that when you decided that you&rsquo;re
going to determine what everything is, instead of letting the Father
reveal it to you and not objecting to it, when you are determining the
rules of life and the rules by which social living is to occur, instead
of letting the Love that the Father is, that the Father is being in you
as You, knows how to be and doesn&rsquo;t attempt to do anything other
than be the embrace and the healing or Whole Presence that It is.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The imagined usurping of functions not your own is the basis of fear.
The whole world you see &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; from that vantage point: I&rsquo;m adding.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The whole world you see reflects the illusion you have done so&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you look and you see what you have determined everything is,
and everything reflects back to you the limits of what you are willing
to see.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The whole world you see reflects the illusion you have done so, making
fear inevitable.
</div>

So, the world you see that you&rsquo;ve made up is making fear
inevitable. But the way out of fear is to shift your attention to the
Holy Spirit, referring decisions to the Holy Spirit. Continuing:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To return the function to the One to Whom it belongs is thus the escape
from fear. And it is this that lets the memory of love return to you.
</div>

And I want to insert again that the place where this shift is going to
occur is right there where you&rsquo;re sitting, right there in the room
you&rsquo;re in, right there in the flowers or the table or the carpet
or the Spring or Winter day outside. Right there is where the memory of
Love will return to you, and, in the return, it will illuminate the
Loveliness of God&rsquo;s Creating where that beautiful flower petal is
or where that dust in the corner of the room is. Continuing:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Do not, then, think that following the Holy Spirit's guidance is
necessary merely because of your own inadequacies.
</div>

No, this isn&rsquo;t about self-improvement. And it isn&rsquo;t because
you&rsquo;re nothing or nobody. Do not, then, think that following the
Holy Spirit's guidance is necessary because you&rsquo;re incompetent.
No!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Do not, then, think that following the Holy Spirit's guidance is
necessary merely because of your own inadequacies. It is the way out of
hell for you.
</div>

Yielding to the Holy Spirit is you yielding to your right Mind&mdash;the
Mind that is yours to experience and will be your experience when you
fall out of the funnel, when you fall out of the place in which the
rat-race goes on as an entirely false experience of being right in the
middle of Reality, right in the middle of the Kingdom of Heaven.

This is the simple Truth. The part I want you to particularly remember
tonight is to look at the petal on the flower or to look at your cat
sleeping in the sun or to look at the sunlight in which the cat is
sleeping and abandon whatever you think the meaning of them is and
desire to have the Holy Spirit reveal to you God right there, right
here, right now because it is all the Kingdom of Heaven, and it&rsquo;s
not a hundred years off. The threshold, the magical, marvelous threshold
of Awakening, of the &ldquo;aha&rdquo; experience is right here, right
now in the Wholeness of Now.

Be with this. Don&rsquo;t think about it. Let the meaning of it be with
you and move you.

I love you very much, and I look forward to being with you next time.

[^1]: Manual for Teachers Section 30: As For The Rest...

