---
title: Jun 9, 2017
ref: "T17.8 Conditions of Forgiveness"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

I want to begin tonight by reminding everyone that God is Love! In the
heat and turmoil of daily life presently, it seems to be easy to be
distracted from the conscious awareness that we are Loved, that we are
Loved by our Father, our Source, by God. Remind yourselves often. Remind
yourself, by doing so, that you are not alone in the midst of a whole
lot of other &ldquo;alone&rdquo; individuals, struggling, because one
with God, as the saying goes, is a majority&mdash;because one with God
is not misidentifying Himself as a separate Individuality, but rather
inseparable from That which is the Source of all Individualities, That
which is presencing Itself as all Individualities. A Wholeness, if you
will.

The remembrance of God&rsquo;s Love is the way you access the conscious
experience of Brotherhood.

Now, there&rsquo;s almost no quarter of your Globe from which I do not
hear sadness, grief, depression, anger and almost nowhere where I
don&rsquo;t see some who are immobilized by these feelings, overcome
with hopelessness.

Now, there&rsquo;s a reason &hellip; there two reasons. One is that you
have forgotten how to say, &ldquo;No.&rdquo; And the second reason is,
you have lost sight of Truth.

Now, I want to emphasize at the outset tonight, the importance of the
word &ldquo;no,&rdquo; and the importance of declaring it when it is
called for. And I want to emphasize again, the fact that to be
spiritual, to be coming Home, is not a matter of turning yourself into
&hellip; oh-h-h, a permissive, unprincipled, but, oh so loving,
forgiving individual&mdash;one who doesn&rsquo;t say &ldquo;no&rdquo;
because what he would say no to is an illusion, and &ldquo;whatever you
fight against is magnified.&rdquo; This is a metaphysical misperception,
and it is a gross misunderstanding of what the Course teaches.

The Course teaches about correction. The Course points out that whatever
happens is either an expression of Love or a call for Love. And a call
for Love is a behavior that is unloving and which, therefore, must be
corrected. And the simple fact is, that correction will not happen if
the meaning of the word, &ldquo;no,&rdquo; is unexpressed.

It&rsquo;s very simple, without saying, &ldquo;no,&rdquo; there
can&rsquo;t be a call for a change of mind that will constitute a change
of behavior that is called &ldquo;repentance&rdquo; &hellip; and
repentance is not an old Biblical Christian or even Jewish term that no
longer applies. A miracle is a sudden shift of perception. That would be
a modern day way of describing repentance. It&rsquo;s a sudden shift of
perception, which means the abandonment of an old perception and the
embrace of a new perception. It&rsquo;s very simple.

Now, I said that the second reason was that you&rsquo;ve lost sight of
Truth. It is not surprising because no matter where you are on the Globe
there is a campaign going on to confuse, and render the word
&ldquo;Truth&rdquo; malleable, changeable, indefinite&mdash;one thing
one minute, another thing the next minute. And it seems to be coming
from people in authority, people that you would normally feel confident
in. And when those who you give confidence to, who are in positions of
governing, if they are not consistent, if they do not recognize Truth as
unchangeable, as absolute, they will behave in a manner that calls for
correction, which means that all of the loving students of Truth who are
endeavoring to Wake up, have to open up their mouth or use their minds
to say, &ldquo;No&rdquo;&mdash;to object! And it must be understood that
saying &ldquo;no&rdquo; to what is objectionable and demanding
correction is an absolute expression of Love&mdash;Love fortified with
Principle.

Now mind you, I didn&rsquo;t say principles, because principles are
different sorts of rules created through the use of the imagination to
exercise control. But Principle is the integrity of God that is present
in every single aspect of Creation. And so Love, the behavior of Love
embodies and expresses Principle. This is important.

Now, if you don&rsquo;t see love being expressed by those who are
governing, you cannot afford to sit there and say, &ldquo;Well, this too
shall pass. I&rsquo;m not going to engage in what might be a difficult,
conflicting relationship with this one.&rdquo; But my friends, my
Brothers, my Sisters, if that one is in a position of governing you,
then you must not be silent. You must be willing to be the practical
presence of Love that does not let a misguided Brother or Sister
continue in his or her misguided way and, thereby, affect you against
your intelligent awareness of things in a harmful way.

You know, the methodology that is being used to undermine confidence and
to undermine the clarity of Truth is in attempting to divide mankind
into groups, to conceptualize mankind in groups and pit them against
each other through the use of competition, called business. And I am not
oversimplifying anything here.

Think about it. Put the two words together, &ldquo;business&rdquo; and
&ldquo;Brotherhood.&rdquo; What do the two feel like? Well, business is
profiting, while Brotherhood is charity. Business is
profiting&mdash;easily used to take advantage of one&rsquo;s brother,
easily used and primarily used to better one&rsquo;s self at the expense
of his brother. There is no love there.

Now, in 1st Corinthians, Chapter 13 it says:

<div markdown="1" class="well bible">
[^1] Though I speak with the tongues of men and of angels, and have not
charity, I am become as sounding brass, or a tinkling cymbal.[^2] And
though I have the gift of prophecy, and understand all mysteries, and
all knowledge; and though I have all faith, so that I could remove
mountains, and have not charity, I am nothing.
</div>

Now, the word charity comes from a Latin word which means, generous
Love. Generous Love, gifted Love, not transactional love, which is
business, not love&mdash;which is manipulation and control, not love.
Not Brotherhood.

Why are you uncomfortable with what is going on? Why are you
uncomfortable? Because no matter where you are in the world, you wake up
in the morning to see what new disturbance has occurred in the attempt
to transform the Brotherhood of Man into the activities of business and
competition? It&rsquo;s not your Birthright. And it&rsquo;s not going to
stop until someone says, &ldquo;Stop!&rdquo; It&rsquo;s not going to
stop until everyone says, &ldquo;No,&rdquo; and let&rsquo;s their voice
determine what will happen. It&rsquo;s called Government by the
governed. It&rsquo;s called democracy.

Now, you say, &ldquo;But what can I do?&rdquo; Well, the Course gives a
very simple, wonderful answer. The Course says, &ldquo;There are no
private thoughts&rdquo; &hellip; there are no private thoughts. So,
you&rsquo;re going to do the awful thing of taking a stand. And
I&rsquo;m not talking about taking a stand against something, I&rsquo;m
talking about standing firmly&mdash;firmly grounded in the experience of
Truth&mdash;and being absolutely clear within yourself as to what is
important, as to what Truth is. Because when that happens, one of the
two reasons for your being confused and depressed and angry and
immobilized is done away with&mdash;the fact that you have lost sight of
Truth.

There are no private thoughts. You know, you&rsquo;re not here just to
observe. You do not exist just to observe. You exist to participate in
the Movement of God, by reflecting the Movement of God because
you&rsquo;ve engaged in the holy instant and abandoned any inclination
you have to continue to operate on the basis of an imagined
independence. You see?

You&rsquo;re going to have to participate. You&rsquo;re going to have to
be involved. And you&rsquo;re going to have to be involved by being
clear. And you be clear by abandoning your privacy&mdash;your private
thoughts, your fears, your worries, all of which have been exasperated
by the attempt to undermine peace that is occurring presently on your
Globe.

Now, the undermining of the peace on your Globe is a manifestation of
psychological warfare. That&rsquo;s the best word for it.

You know, psychological warfare isn&rsquo;t new [chuckling]. It came
into existence the moment you and a Brother or Sister decided to get a
divorce from the Father and determine what everything was
yourself&mdash;naming everything and providing the meaning of everything
to everything, yourselves. Including the definition of who you Are and
what you Are and what your purpose is.

The moment that happened, you were using your mind in a way that
destroyed your ability to experience who you divinely Are&mdash;the Son
of God, the Daughter of God, the Expression of God&mdash;and operate on
the basis of an imaginary self. And the activity of the mind of this
imaginary self is called &ldquo;the ego.&rdquo; But what does it do? It
engages in psychological warfare. It tells you, when you feel like being
happy, that, &ldquo;You better be careful because it won&rsquo;t last
forever. Something will happen.&rdquo; And, &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t worry,
you won&rsquo;t live forever. You&rsquo;ll one day get sick and
die.&rdquo; It argues with you. It convinces you to behave in a
defensive, self-protective, manipulative way because your brothers and
sisters can&rsquo;t be trusted because they&rsquo;re all trying to get
up higher on the ladder by standing on your shoulders, just as
you&rsquo;re doing the same thing to them.

This isn&rsquo;t the Truth about you, but the ego speaks as though
it&rsquo;s you. It&rsquo;s in your mind, and it doesn&rsquo;t say,
&ldquo;You are not going to be happy.&rdquo; It says, &ldquo;I am not
happy!&rdquo; And you hear it as though it&rsquo;s your voice. That is
psychological warfare. That is mesmerism. It&rsquo;s a hypnotic
suggestion. And right now hypnotic suggestions are being expressed that
cause it to seem somehow reasonable to think that maybe Truth is
variable. And there seems to be no one around speaking as though Truth
is absolute and confirming that, so that that can be &hellip; what?
Taken hold of and used to ground oneself, in one&rsquo;s own mind, so
that he or she is not swept along with the current of [chuckling] the
abundance of &ldquo;fake news.&rdquo;

Now, I want to come back to 1st Corinthians because he said:

<div markdown="1" class="well bible">
[Chapter 14] 1 Follow after charity&hellip;
</div>

Remember, charity is generous Love.

<div markdown="1" class="well bible">
1 Follow after charity, and desire spiritual gifts, but rather that ye
may prophesy.
</div>

It&rsquo;s okay to desire spiritual gifts but let there be a preference
for prophesying.

<div markdown="1" class="well bible">
2For he that speaketh in an unknown tongue speaketh not unto men, but
unto God: for no man understandeth him; howbeit in the spirit he
speaketh mysteries.  3But he that prophesieth speaketh unto men to
edification, and exhortation, and comfort.  4He that speaketh in an
unknown tongue edifieth himself; but he that prophesieth edifieth the
church.  5I would that ye all spake with tongues but rather that ye
prophesied: for greater is he that prophesieth than he that speaketh
with tongues, except he interpret, that the church may receive
[edification].  6Now, brethren, if I come unto you speaking with
tongues, what shall I profit you, except I shall speak to you either by
revelation, or by knowledge, or by prophesying, or by doctrine?
</div>

Now, further on he says:

<div markdown="1" class="well bible">
19Yet in the church I had &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in other words, within the community.

<div markdown="1" class="well bible">
&hellip; in the church I had rather speak five words with my
understanding, that by my voice I might teach others also, than ten
thousand words in an unknown tongue.
</div>

I&rsquo;m sharing this because part of generous Love&mdash;part and
parcel of it&mdash;is not only saying &ldquo;no&rdquo; and calling for
correction, it also involves edification. It involves your becoming
involved through the expression of the Truth that is needed, so that
those who are blind at the moment&mdash;mentally&mdash;might experience
an &ldquo;aha!&rdquo; a realization because someone has taken the time
to do something more than just say &ldquo;no.&rdquo;

One must say &ldquo;no&rdquo; but then one must Love enough to teach.
And what does one teach? One teaches what one hears when one abandons
his own independent sense of self to indulge or engage in the holy
instant, and join with the Father or the Holy Spirit or me in expressing
what is revealed. Because what is revealed will come in language that
will be understood and provide the greatest opportunity for realization
to replace ignorance. And this is important. This is the crux of the
matter.

Now, you can&rsquo;t always go out and get up on a soapbox on a street
corner and preach, or even sit at a table in a coffee shop with friends
and share your clear perspective&mdash;not for the purpose of
overwhelming or manipulate them, but for the purpose of being one who is
not confused, who, by being clear, expresses the Truth from Peace, not
as a defense against evil but as a simple declaration of Truth.

Now, it is very important to pay attention to the obvious. The obvious
is, and I&rsquo;ve mentioned this before, the obvious is that you live
on a Globe. Everyone lives on a Globe. It is one location. Everyone is
part of the Brotherhood of Man. It is one group. It is already one
group. When there was lack of communication, and it took a long time for
messages to get from one place to another around the Globe, it was easy
to think that you were separate, that it was not a single Family.

Many of you can remember the first time you watched Olympic Games on
television and experienced seeing people in the dark, while you were
watching television in full daylight. Before that, all you had was the
intellectual concept that, &ldquo;Yes, on the other side of the Earth
it&rsquo;s night time and on this side it&rsquo;s daytime.&rdquo; But
there was no way to experience it. The moment each of you that had
experienced that saw it, your Globe got smaller. It became unified as an
experience. And as technology has increased and communication has become
more instantaneous you now communicate with each other around the
Globe&mdash;most of you&mdash;daily.

You are demonstrating the fact that there is one Brotherhood, there is
one Family of Man. It is one World. The experience has gotten ahead of
the mind recognizing that it is time to abandon the belief in
separation, and the belief in the value of groups, and the value of
isolation, the incredible [chuckling] egotistical idea that one can be
better than another, that one country can be better than another, that
one can take advantage of another and one can suffer at the hand of
another, because, that&rsquo;s not Brotherhood.

You are all living in a World that is already unified by means of
instantaneous communication, and you are still behaving as though you
are separate.

Now, that is the confusing belief which requires edification, which
requires being willing to pay attention to the obvious and to recognize
it and to stand in it, and to be from it&mdash;which amounts to being
grounded and stable and humane with generous Love, instead of the
endeavor to get the advantage.

So, you must begin to say, &ldquo;No,&rdquo; and then you must embellish
it, enlarge upon the reason you&rsquo;re saying &ldquo;no,&rdquo; by
illuminating the &ldquo;yes,&rdquo; as I&rsquo;ve just done. I&rsquo;ve
said, &ldquo;No, you do not live as separate, distinct groups on your
Globe. Yes, you already live in a state of unity and experience of unity
every single day.&rdquo; You see?

The Brotherhood of Man, the Expression of God, is singular and infinite.
It always has been, and that fact needs to be more completely
experienced right here on the Globe and Universally. But we&rsquo;ll
start here, because here is where the demand is. Here is where
repentance needs to occur&mdash;which means here is where those of you
who would like to just sort of put yourself in a cocoon of Love and not
see anything wrong with anybody else and never call them on their
abuse&mdash;must repent. You must arrive at a point where you&rsquo;re
willing to change, so that you and your relationships can be redeemed to
their spiritual original, where all of you as Brothers, as Family,
reflect the infinite Oneness of your Source, the Father.

Now, generous Love&mdash;charity&mdash;sounds like forgiveness to me.
And so, I want to end tonight by reading from the Course. In the Sparkly
book it&rsquo;s page 420, and the Subheading is:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*The Conditions of Forgiveness*[^2]

The holy instant is nothing more than a special case, or an extreme
example, of what every situation is MEANT to be. The meaning which the
Holy Spirit's purpose has given it is also given to every situation.
</div>

Many of you, have practiced the holy instant and experienced the holy
instant. And so, you have had an instant here, an instant there, three
last week [chuckling] and you have learned that the words &ldquo;holy
instant&rdquo; refer to an actual experience, which is available to you.
But it is one which each of you needs to nurture and extend.

Again:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The meaning which the Holy Spirit's purpose has given it &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the holy instant &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is also given to every situation. It calls forth just the same
suspension of faithlessness, withheld and left unused, that faith might
answer to the call of truth.
</div>

And this is very important. The practice of the holy instant is not a
matter of doing something new or in addition to what you&rsquo;ve
already done, it&rsquo;s a matter of neglecting to practice
faithlessness. And in the absence of expressing faithlessness &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; faith might answer to the call of truth. The holy instant is
the shining example, the clear and unequivocal demonstration of the
meaning of every relationship and every situation&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; seen as a WHOLE.
</div>

Not as separate parts, competitive parts, but as a Whole.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Faith has accepted every aspect of the situation, and faithlessness has
not forced any exclusion on it.
</div>

&ldquo;I&rsquo;m in, you&rsquo;re out.&rdquo; &ldquo;We&rsquo;re in,
you&rsquo;re out.&rdquo; &ldquo;We&rsquo;re better than you.&rdquo;
&ldquo;You think you&rsquo;re better than us?&rdquo; The absence of
faithlessness is the absence of making exclusions, the absence of
building walls, the absence of sending someone home, meaning somewhere
different from here where we are.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is a situation of perfect peace simply because you have let it be
what it is.
</div>

And that doesn&rsquo;t mean that you look out at the World and you say,
&ldquo;Well, all this crap that&rsquo;s going on is illusion. I&rsquo;ll
just let it be what it is because it&rsquo;s not anything Real. And
I&rsquo;m going to attend to the things that have to do with
Reality.&rdquo; No, you look out at the World that looks like it is made
up of desperate competitive groups, you look at your choice of how
you&rsquo;re defining it and you recognize, &ldquo;Wait, a minute, every
single day I get on the Internet or I get on my phone and I text
somebody and they may be in England, or they may be in Alaska, or they
may be in Japan.&rdquo; You see?

And so, you let it be what it is &hellip; One World, One Family, not
what it suggests to you that it is. And not what one&rsquo;s leaders may
be suggesting it is &hellip; as not whole and not unified and promoting
the idea that competition will make everyone thrive, when division
diminishes. There&rsquo;s no way to get around it. Division diminishes.
The absence of division reveals the Wholeness that already IS.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[Again] Faith has accepted every aspect of the situation, and faithlessness has
not forced any exclusion on it. It is a situation of perfect peace
simply because you have let it be what it is.

This simple courtesy &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you get it? Simple courtesy. God isn&rsquo;t complicated. The
obvious is always simple. The Reality is always simple. And:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This simple courtesy is all the Holy Spirit asks of you.
</div>

To let it be what it is.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Let truth be what it is. Do not intrude upon it, do not attack it, do
not interrupt its coming.
</div>

Which you do when you try to be in charge, yourself, and when you try to
manipulate others, and when you defend yourself against what you see as
others trying to control or manipulate you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Do not intrude upon it, do not attack it, do not interrupt its coming.
Let it encompass &hellip;
</div>

Truth. Let Truth &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
encompass every situation, and bring you peace.
</div>

Why? Because it&rsquo;s Wholeness. Division is the absence of Peace and
it always will be. And division will never be justified as a
constructive element.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Not even faith is asked of you, for truth asks nothing.
</div>

Simple, when you&rsquo;re willing to be still and you desire to know
what the Truth is, Truth reveals itself. Truth is a revelation to be had
by anyone who&rsquo;s willing to set aside faithlessness, whose willing
to set aside the attempts to be an independent entity in his or her own
right.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Let it enter&hellip;
</div>

the Truth &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
and it will call forth and SECURE for you the faith you need
for peace. But rise you not against it, for against your opposition it
CANNOT come.
</div>

Rise not up against it by insisting upon excluding Brothers, deporting
them, demeaning them, humiliating them.

Love is patient. Love is kind. It does not envy. It does not boast. It
is not proud. It is not rude. It is not self-seeking. It is not easily
angered. It keeps no records of wrongs. Love does not delight in evil,
but rejoices with the Truth. It always protects, always trusts, always
hopes, always preservers. Love never fails. Charity, generous Love never
fails.3

When you see these things absent from the expression of a Brother or a
Sister, whether it&rsquo;s a family member or whether it&rsquo;s the
head of a country, recognize that it is not Love, and demand Love. And
go within, into the holy instant so that the words necessary to edify or
illuminate what Love is, and what needs to replace the behavior that is
happening, can come forth and escape your lips because you&rsquo;re
sharing it.

And you&rsquo;re not sharing it as an intimidated one who&rsquo;s trying
greatly to overcome being intimidated, but also not as an arrogant one
who knows the Truth and is going to make sure that everybody knows what
it is. No! Love gives expression to Truth from a place of infinite
groundedness and stability and therefore Peace. And that&rsquo;s why the
expression of Love transforms, because in Its presence, in Its
expression It does not, of itself, elicit egotistical reactions, and
makes it easier for a sudden shift of perception to occur.

If you want to stop feeling depressed, angry, sad, hopeless and
immobilized, then find a place in you where you can say &ldquo;No&rdquo;
from the tips of your toes. And do it! And find the place in you where
Truth can be revealed to you &hellip; that place being the holy instant.
And do it!

You&rsquo;re angry because you are at the mercy of an element that is
engaged in confusing and covering over what Truth is without providing
any recourse, which, indeed, causes everyone to feel helpless. But you
know what? Truth is only ever revealed. And, therefore, it&rsquo;s
available to you in every moment because there is such a thing as a holy
moment, a holy instant, in which your union with God is revealed and
illumined to you, providing you with Peace because it&rsquo;s an
experience of infinite Love.

Now, being the holy Sons and Daughters of God means being involved in
expressing Reality, expressing your divinity, not covering it
over&mdash;not hiding it for fear of offending someone. Abuse will not
stop until one is unafraid of offending an abuser. And just as bees can
sense when someone is afraid of them, abusers can sense when one is
afraid of them and the situation is aggravated. But just as bees can
sense when someone is not afraid of them abusers can sense that, as
well, and recognize that they have no ability to entice you or control
you, because your mind is not available to them in the absence of fear.

What I am sharing with you tonight is very important, because an
experiment in division and competition is in the process of being
instituted. The attempt to start a, shall I say,
&ldquo;a grand experiment&rdquo; in a new stimulating context of
interactions with each other. It&rsquo;s being promoted and it even
seems to be modern and forward looking, but division has always been
present. And what is being forgotten is that division has been lessening
every moment, especially within the last hundred and twenty years. And
so, this movement forward into business and competition and the
conceptualization of countries as businesses is a backward step.

&ldquo;No,&rdquo; must be said. And the &ldquo;Yes&rdquo; that replaces
what was objected to, must be felt by every single one of you. You must
be willing to take the time and put forth the effort that it takes to
become clear about what Truth is, so that It&rsquo;s present in your
mind as part of your makeup, even if you&rsquo;re not expressing It
verbally all the time, because there are no private thoughts.

Every single one who engages consciously in the holy instant in order to
know the Truth because the Truth is more important to you than anything
else, will be &ldquo;the leaven that leavens the whole lump,&rdquo;4
will be that which transforms. And it will be felt substantially because
it is coming from a place of grounded stability, instead of emotional
hype and egotistical thrills.

I love you very much. And I look forward to being with you next time.

[^1]: Bible: 1 Corinthians 13:1-2 and 14:1-6 and 14:19
[^2]: T17.8 Conditions of Forgiveness
[^3]: Bible: 1 Corinthians 13:4-8
[^4]: Bible: Galatians 5:9

