---
title: Jul 11, 2017
ref: "Discussion"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

A Course in Miracles teaches that a miracle is a sudden shift of
perception. And this is true. But not all miracles are sudden shifts of
perception. Some of them are protracted, drawn out because they&rsquo;re
resisted.

You know, when a baby is born the delivery can be quick or protracted,
depending upon whether there is resistance of one sort or another, or
not. But the fact is, that when the resistance is finally surpassed the
delivery is [snaps fingers] speedy, [chuckles] it is a now event. It is
sudden.

So, all miracles are sudden shifts of perception, but some of them seem
to take longer because they&rsquo;re resisted, and they&rsquo;re
laborious.

Now, the fact is that on your globe a miracle is happening, but
it&rsquo;s not the sudden shift of perception kind of miracle.
It&rsquo;s one that is being very tedious, very uncomfortable, very
demanding.

Now, the miracle that&rsquo;s happening is, believe it or not,
unification. The miracle that is happening is a shift into global
harmony, global integrity, global cooperation, global Brotherhood. I
know it doesn&rsquo;t look like that. And the reason it doesn&rsquo;t
look like that is because this push for unity is being resisted &hellip;
because independence is not being released willingly.

When a shift is coming to completion the very last aspects of it involve
the greatest resistances to whatever the miracle is. And so, at this
point where unity is coming forward whether it is wanted or not, all of
the reasons for maintaining independence and the sense that worth only
arises out of the best expression of independence that everything is
being done to avoid the release of independence and the allowing of the
resumption of harmony, where what I&rsquo;m going to call
&ldquo;other&rdquo; orientation replaces &ldquo;self&rdquo; orientation.

You are watching events unfold in the United States. You&rsquo;re
watching it from all over the world. To those living in the United
States it feels like it is happening in the United States, but it is
happening in the world. It is being observed and felt in the world. And
there are dynamics going on in Russia and in other countries, England,
the European Union.

The attempt to undo the graduation into unity by restoring independence
is rearing its ugly head all over the globe. And it places a demand upon
every individuality to become clear&mdash;to become clear about what
truth is and to disallow for what is untrue to take hold. It is becoming
incumbent upon every individuality on your globe to become clear about
what love is and to disallow for what is unloving, what is abusive, what
skirts the edges of kindness in the name of some other goal that
doesn&rsquo;t involve caring.

And everyone must at this juncture appear to take a position. It
won&rsquo;t really be a matter of taking a position that is antagonistic
toward another position. It&rsquo;s a matter of taking a position that
is in harmony with the miracle that is unfolding, so that your delivery
into it as a conscious experience can be quicker, less laborious and
more miraculous.

This is no longer a time to sit on the fence and play with &hellip;
oh-h, dishonesty or to play with, um-m, not really pushing for the truth
because, um-m, what&rsquo;s going on isn&rsquo;t really that destructive
&hellip; a little bit of fooling around, fudging on what is true and
what is not, hum-m, it doesn&rsquo;t really make that big a difference.

Well, I&rsquo;m telling you something, when a miracle is occurring and
something like unity is emerging, evolving, we might say, becoming
clearer, one can&rsquo;t fudge any longer because the more the miracle
comes into view the less tolerable fudging with love, fudging with
truth, fudging with kindness can occur comfortably, the less wiggle room
there is.

Oh, but if you&rsquo;re going to take a position which is in harmony
with a miracle that is unfolding, that not everyone wants, well, that is
going to put you at odds for a time with many. &ldquo;Oh-h, how can you
call that a miracle? What&rsquo;s miraculous about that?&rdquo; Well,
fortunately [chuckles] nothing is miraculous about that. What&rsquo;s
miraculous is the miracle that is occurring that is calling upon
everyone to change, to reevaluate their position on this, that and the
other thing, so that after looking at it squarely, it can be seen
whether it&rsquo;s in harmony with the miracle that is coming forth or
not. So that if it is not, it can be consciously abandoned and replaced
by behavior that embodies Truth and Love and Brotherhood. Why? So that
by becoming synchronized, we&rsquo;ll say with the movement called
&ldquo;the&rdquo; miracle, the miracle might precipitously manifest as a
sudden shift of perception that puts everything into a new perspective.

Now, one can be careless and look without listening for divine Truth and
say, &ldquo;Hey, it&rsquo;s just a planet with these organisms called
human beings on it, and they can explore any way they want to live, they
can explore any different way they want to live. And hey, that broadens
the spectrum of their experience and, therefore, the quality of their
mind and their behavior. But you know what? The breaking down of unity
and the reestablishment of independence &hellip; hey, there&rsquo;s
nothing new about that. That&rsquo;s been tried over and over and over
in thousands of different ways.&rdquo;

And you know what? At the bottom line the movement of the miraculous has
occurred. And the extreme practice of independence has yielded to what
Love produces, which is better harmony, better cooperation, a valuing of
relating according to a fundamental principle, we&rsquo;ll say, called
the &ldquo;Golden Rule,&rdquo; something present in one way or another
in every religion. And as a result, more and more unity and the valuing
of what contributes to unity has emerged.

The miraculous has been happening. But it hasn&rsquo;t come to
completion. It hasn&rsquo;t come to the point where mankind on a large
scale is remembering its divinity, that each one is not an organism
arising out of evolution, but rather the ever present manifestation of,
or presencing of the first Cause, God&mdash;divine Love, divine
Principle, Truth, Soul, Mind, Spirit.

The divorce that was gotten from our Father, in which the memory of the
divinity of Individuality was lost, is being restored because an
illusion cannot stand forever. And the experiment&mdash;the grand
experiment which has been called the &ldquo;Fall of
Man&rdquo;&mdash;the grand experiment at independence is failing.
It&rsquo;s failing because enlightenment is happening, because the
restoration of the conscious experience of the Christhood of each of you
and the Christhood of each other is unavoidably replacing the ignorance
that has prevailed because the choice to ignore has been practiced.

What is happening right now is the expression of the last vestiges of
the ethic of independence, struggling to not let it go, struggling to
not let it disappear from human experience, which means to not disappear
from your globe because it&rsquo;s the ego. And the ego is believed to
be an essential and ultimately important aspect of conscious
individuality. And if it is abandoned, worth is replaced by
worthlessness. And who wants that? That would be hell. But I&rsquo;m
telling you, hell is the loss of the memory of who you Are &hellip; who
you Are and who your brothers and sisters Are, and your insistence upon
behaving as what you believe you are.

If you are bothered by what you see going on, on your globe, and if you
seem to experience no relief from it, if existence, for whatever reason,
seems to be losing purpose and faithlessness is taking over, it is
necessary for me and for all of the Brotherhood who are Awake to convey
to you that what you believe is happening is not what is happening.
Disintegration of society is not happening on your globe. The valuing of
everything that is not nurturing to Brotherhood is not what is
happening. What is happening is the emerging of Unity, Brotherhood, with
such absoluteness that the ego sense of self is feeling truly
threatened. And this is good news.

The way to not be engulfed in fear and hopelessness is to stop relying
upon your own independent thinking and what you have been educated to
believe. And to instead insist upon listening for what I will reveal to
you in the quietness of your own mind, what the Holy Spirit will reveal
to you in the quietness of your own mind so that you might feel, so that
you might have an experience of peace because of clarity that
wasn&rsquo;t available to you when your attention was scattered out
there on all of the circumstances that are happening, and the alarm that
everyone is experiencing.

The independence that everyone opted for in their divorce from the
Father was a choice to be able to think your own thoughts, to make up
definitions for everything yourself. And then to live in this fantasy
because you could do it. And after all, the Father still continued to be
everything. Nothing went anywhere when you decided to redefine
everything yourself and believe your own thoughts.

And so, you could say, &ldquo;Wow, I&rsquo;ve decided that this tree
evolved through physical processes, you know, out of the physicalness of
this planet and out of the physicalness of this universe, which just
happens to be here. And you know what? It came from a &lsquo;big
bang.&rsquo; It would have had to because it&rsquo;s here, and how else
could you explain it except that suddenly everything was? And it was
because that&rsquo;s the way physicalness is.&rdquo;

Well, [chuckles] one can walk around in the Kingdom of Heaven and call
it anything they want, and believe it&rsquo;s anything they want to
believe it is. But all the time they as a real, or you as a real Son or
Daughter of God is walking around in the real Kingdom of
Heaven&mdash;unconscious of It, oblivious to It. And in that state of
mind there is ever-present guilt and ever-present fear because you are
the Son or Daughter of God, a Christed one, and you can&rsquo;t ignore
that, or constantly affirm that you are not that by claiming to be a
mortal, a physical human being. That assertion brings with it an
unavoidable awareness that it&rsquo;s not the truth. And the awareness
that it&rsquo;s not the truth is the inner demand calling you to ask
then, &ldquo;What is Truth?&rdquo;

Now, at this last stage of the illusion of independence you are seeing,
and many of you are even experiencing, participating in the resistance
wholeheartedly and genuinely&mdash;you think&mdash;fighting for the
independence that you feel is a God-given right, which if you abandoned
will constitute the loss of Meaning.

Now, what I must reiterate is, that this attempt to reverse the miracle
of Oneness emerging as the True conscious experience of Being, calls for
every single one of you to align yourself with It, with firmness, with
commitment, with an unwillingness to be indefinite, wishy-washy,
flexible in that you&rsquo;re forever not sure whether Truth is True or
not, never sure whether you have to be absolutely Loving or not, whether
there are occasions when it&rsquo;s appropriate to lie, if there are
occasions where it&rsquo;s appropriate to withhold caring. Of course,
for the benefit of the one that you&rsquo;re called upon to care for, I
mean after all, the argument is that caring for them may weaken them,
they need to stand on their own two feet if they want to feel their
integrity.

The justifications for withholding Love, for being indefinite, for being
wishy-washy, for endlessly sitting on the fence, the justifications are
infinite. And they&rsquo;re just distractions and delays from, I&rsquo;m
going to say, &ldquo;getting with the program,&rdquo; meaning getting
into alignment with the miracle that is happening&mdash;the sudden shift
of perception that should be sudden and not drawn out. When the last
little bit of resistance is released the light bulb will go on, the
&ldquo;aha&rdquo; will happen, and at that moment it will be sudden.

What I am pointing out is that contrary to what it appears is happening,
there is a miracle happening that not only calls for, but is requiring
cooperation with it, which is requiring that you yield to it, because
it&rsquo;s your holiness and the holiness of all mankind and the Kingdom
of Heaven-ness of what you call the world&mdash;the material world and
universe. It&rsquo;s the coming forth of the clear experience of this
that no one has the choice to forever resist. And the end of the
capacity to resist it is upon us &hellip; is upon you.

Now you know what? You don&rsquo;t have to stand up and &ldquo;rebel
against&rdquo; and get into a spiritual conflict. All you have to do is
to stop being resistant, yourself. All you have to do is to be willing
to stand in the face of what&rsquo;s happening and look at it, be with
it joined with me or joined with the Holy Spirit to look at it with us
instead of with the mutual-agreements that you brought into play when
you joined with a brother or sister to define the world as your decree
of divorce from your Father.

The leaven that leavens the whole lump without force is every single
individual daring to practice the holy instant, caring enough to
practice only the holy instant, where you abandon your devotion to your
own best thinking, your own best concepts, and you say, &ldquo;Nothing I
see means anything, but everything that is revealed to me in the
absence of my thinking means everything.&rdquo; That is where the
Meaning is. That is how the Meaning is accessed. And there is no attempt
in that to overthrow a brother or a sister or an education or a theory
or get into a fight with your fellowman.

The holy instant is the way you skip the traces, it&rsquo;s the way you
get off of the track of your habits and make it possible to observe the
Movement of God, called Creation&mdash;which looks like the world and
universe and you&mdash;with eyes innocent of previous definitions,
previous concepts, previous habits. You see?

This is good news, but it is going to require diligence. You are
habituated to the patterns of your own thinking. And so, you see what
you expect to see and miss what is really there. And so, you have to
devalue your habituated thinking. And you have to bring curiosity into
play. You have to look at this material world and universe that you have
defined that way, and desire to see&mdash;become curious to see, as I
have said before&mdash;the more of what God is Being there, than what
you think is there &hellip; with a complete willingness to abandon
whatever you thought.

And I will give you a little hint. When you ask to see the more of what
God is Being right there in front of you, it is not so that you can have
a new definition, a new way to think about it because that will simply
move you back into memory.

&ldquo;The Father has revealed the divinity of the tree. Yes, wow, all
trees are divine. I grasp this. I experience this. And now this is the
way I&rsquo;m forever going to think about them. And I am going to get
back into my new thinking so that it can become new habituated
thinking.&rdquo; You see?

That&rsquo;s not what it&rsquo;s about. What it&rsquo;s about is being
in the absence of or the silence of Mind, where the Movement of Creation
registers with you. And in the registering is defined to you &hellip;
and in the registering is defined to you &hellip; and in the registering
is defined to you &hellip; and in the registering is defined to you
&hellip; and in the registering is defined to you, ad infinitum because
you&rsquo;re constantly standing at the threshold of the unknown with
innocent eyes, and innocent mind because you&rsquo;ve let yourself into
the flow of the Movement of Creation with the Father&rsquo;s
Perspective. And as you do this you will find yourself at One with your
Brothers and Sisters who are doing the same thing and experiencing You
from the threshold of the Movement of Creation that is looking like You
at that moment &hellip; at that moment &hellip; at that moment &hellip;
at that moment, ad infinitum.

Everyone is standing at the threshold of the miracle. Don&rsquo;t
misunderstand the apparent conflict. Understand that the conflict
represents the resistance to what the miracle ultimately means and the
attempt to hold on to the familiar and the secure prison that you have
created for yourselves. And recognize the fact that you will have to
take a new position.

The old position has been a devotion to your ego beliefs. Or let us say
it has been a devotion to your beliefs, your mutual-agreements which are
what constitute the ego. And you will have to abandon that position in
order to take up the new position of standing at the threshold of the
unknown, standing at the threshold of the spark of Creation that
infinitely occurs as Reality to be experienced in its entirety&hellip;
now &hellip; now &hellip; now &hellip; now, ad infinitum.

You will not be able to say, &ldquo;Oh, I&rsquo;m going to sit back and
watch the miracle happen.&rdquo; [Chuckling] It&rsquo;s not going to
happen out there. It&rsquo;s going to happen where the Fall happened,
which was a decision made in the within-ness of you to be the determiner
of the meaning of everything, and to devote yourself to those
definitions as an affirmation of you existing in your own right.

The miracle will be you&mdash;every one of us&mdash;coming into
alignment with who and what we Are, the Sons and Daughters of, the
manifestation of, the creatures of Creation, the evidence of the
Movement of God, choosing for the Voice for Truth instead of the voice
that has been given to your imagination is the threshold of the
precipitous sudden shift of perception that constitutes what I will
call, &ldquo;the last miracle,&rdquo; because the voyage Home will be
over, the coming back into your right Mind will be over. You&rsquo;ll be
in it.

This miracle which is occurring and which is involving absolutely every
single Son and Daughter of God &hellip; well, it&rsquo;s something every
single Son or Daughter of God is going to have to yield to, therefore,
it is something that every single Son or Daughter of God is yielding to,
willingly or with resistance.

Be willing to be clear. Be willing to take a position that reflects the
Father&rsquo;s Will, instead of human will. And do not allow the attempt
to reinforce and reestablish human will. Do not cooperate with that,
else you will be completely resisting the miracle that is irresistible,
or you will be slowing the miracle down for yourself by bringing
resistance to it.

I&rsquo;m going to put it this way: the hardest part of the miracle is
going to be letting go of the resistance to Unity, to Oneness, to
unequivocal Brotherhood, and willingly abandoning anything that stands
in the way of It. The reason is that in spite of the suffering that is
experienced, the familiarity with independence is humungous, it is
ancient, we could say. And it has the support of your ancestors, you
could say. And it has the support in many ways of society itself,
because society is reflecting the mutual-agreements made by those
practicing independent thinking and, therefore, creating environments
which are not divinely inspired, not arising out of the Wholeness and
Holiness of the Father&rsquo;s Perspective, which is the inherent
Birthright of every single Son or Daughter of God.

It&rsquo;s the task at hand though. And so, in finishing I must point
out that although abandoning resistance may seem impossible to do, the
fact that this miracle is happening means that all of the support needed
for you to shift your way of being is present for you on your behalf to
support you if you&rsquo;re willing to say, &ldquo;Thy Will, not mine be
done.&rdquo; So say it! Say it daily! Say it hourly! Remind yourself
that there is a Will other than your personal ego will that you can lean
into, and which stands in support of your transformation. Because the
miracle is you coming back into your right Mind, which is being promoted
by your right Mind which never left you, but which you have ignored.

I love you very much. And I look forward to being with you next time.

