---
title: Jul 23, 2017
ref: "T14.5 The Shift to Miracles"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

The last time we were together I talked about this time that everyone is
in&mdash;this juncture, as it were, between the past and the future. I
did not use the word &ldquo;change-line,&rdquo; but in effect there is a
passage occurring across a change-line. The passage seems to be
identified as breakdown, disintegration&mdash;not out of carelessness
but actually by conscious design.

It seems to be being consciously, actively promoted in many significant
places around your globe&mdash;independence, isolation, walls,
boundaries, limits of passage, limits to freedom of movement in the
belief that independence will establish strength, protection, safety and
peace. And more than anything the dollar, the ruble, the franc, whatever
the rate of exchange is in any country, seems to be being used as the
justification.

Independent countries &ldquo;as businesses&rdquo; is a very creative but
very deleterious shift of definition because it puts everything on the
basis of competition. And it puts the dollar or the ruble or the
franc&mdash;or whatever the rate of exchange&mdash;it puts it in a
preferential position, and somewhere down the line is humanity,
Brotherhood, you and me playing second fiddle to the almighty rate of
exchange and the competition, which is inseparable [from] it.

This is what appears to be happening. And it seems to be very
frightening. Not to those who value the dollar or the rate of exchange
so much, but to those who are human, to those who are brothers and
sisters and fathers and mothers and husbands and wives and those who
wake up in the morning and are faced with the opportunity and the need
to be the presence of love because that&rsquo;s what brothers and
sisters, mothers and fathers, daughters and sons do, that&rsquo;s the
nature of relationships, that&rsquo;s the nature of love.

And I pointed out last time that in spite of the disintegration that
appears to be happening and which appears to be being consciously
promoted, what&rsquo;s really happening is unification. It&rsquo;s a
miracle. It&rsquo;s a shift of perception. And I pointed out that when
you get to the limit of a belief, when you get to the limit of an
illusion, the illusion seems to become aggressively assertive. And the
noise it makes seems to cover up the actual event, which is the end of
the illusion, which is the miracle, which is the shift of perception,
which, when it finally comes, is a sudden shift of perception. And this
is where we are. And I referred to this as the last miracle. And what is
the last miracle? Atonement.

That is what we&rsquo;re smack dab in the middle of. And you and I and
everyone who feels&mdash;everyone who knows the experience of love,
everyone who has the capacity to care&mdash;is going to be a participant
in this shift. And so this is what we&rsquo;re going to continue to
pursue this evening.

Before we continue, before we go into the book I want to remind everyone
that I have pointed out that the Holy Spirit is your divinity held in
trust while you dally with the ego&mdash;while you play around with the
idea of being an independent thinker, where you have, in the middle of
the infinitude of you, have created like &ldquo;a bubble.&rdquo; And
everything inside the bubble, you are saying is &ldquo;you.&rdquo; And
everything outside of the bubble is &ldquo;not you.&rdquo; And inside
this bubble you are creating imaginations, concepts, and you&rsquo;re
joining with another brother or sister who is doing the same thing, and
coming to mutual agreements about what everything &ldquo;is&rdquo; and
what &ldquo;isn&rsquo;t&rdquo; either one of you.

And so, with your being walled off, separated from, independent from the
infiniteness of you &hellip; well, because the infiniteness of you
can&rsquo;t stop being what It is, It has been given a new
name&mdash;the Holy Spirit, your divinity held in trust, being what It
is while you&rsquo;re ignoring It &hellip; but constantly insinuating
Itself through the bubble.

The wall of separation is so thin and flimsy that breaking it is very
easy. But in order for it to break without being reinforced, every
brother and sister who has chosen to create their bubble must want to
break it. And as we have discussed incessantly, the means of breaking
the bubble is the holy instant, which A Course in Miracles expounds on
and presents for clarity.

The holy instant I have also referred to as the two-step. Step one, you
shut up. You &ldquo;become still,&rdquo; to put it nicely. But you shut
up. And the second step is, you inquire, you desire to know the Truth
beyond your present sense or definition of Truth.

Now, there is also something else which I have shared, which is a
modification of what is called &ldquo;The Daily Prayer&rdquo; in
Christian Science. This Daily Prayer fleshes out, or gives more meaning
to the two-step so that it isn&rsquo;t as mysterious: &ldquo;Well, how
do I do it?&rdquo; &ldquo;What&rsquo;s it about?&rdquo; And the Daily
Prayer goes this way:

<div markdown="1" class="well prayer">
&ldquo;Thy Will, not mine be done. Let the reign of divine Truth, Life
and Love be established in me and rule out of me all self-will. And may
Thy Word enrich the affections of all mankind and govern them.&rdquo;[^1]
</div>

That&rsquo;s the meaning and the movement and the practice of the
two-step.

Now, some time ago we read the section that we&rsquo;re going to go into
tonight. And I&rsquo;m going back because it is so simply put, and it is
more understandable now than when we read it the first time, because
there are so many other things we have discussed in the meantime. It is
on page 341 of the Sparkly book, the second full paragraph. And it says:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is impossible to remember God in secret and alone.[^2]
</div>

&hellip; [chuckling] in other words, inside a wall you put around
yourselves, in isolation where Brotherhood means nothing and
there&rsquo;s no involvement in it, if possible.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is impossible to remember God in secret and alone. For remembering
Him means you are NOT alone&hellip;
</div>

Of course, you will not discover that until you arrive at a point where
you&rsquo;re willing to reach out to something outside your present
definition of yourself and say, &ldquo;Help.&rdquo; The moment you feel
the need and abandon your sovereign position of control over your life
and you say, &ldquo;Help,&rdquo; at that very moment you&rsquo;ve broken
the bubble, you&rsquo;ve penetrated it momentarily at the least,
and you&rsquo;ve allowed that you&rsquo;re not alone. And that opens the
door to communion.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is impossible to remember God in secret and alone. For remembering
Him means you are NOT alone, and willing to remember it.
</div>

That&rsquo;s the key: willing to remember it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Take no thought for yourself, for no thought you hold IS for yourself.
</div>

&hellip; meaning the divine one that you Are. You take thought for the
self you made up, which is not You&mdash;which is not the Son of God or
the Daughter of God. It is an imaginary you that you flesh out and seem
to create by virtue of thinking thoughts that God never thought, thus
seeming to bring into existence something quite separate and apart from
your Source. But it&rsquo;s not your Self.

Now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you would remember your Father, let the Holy Spirit order your
thoughts&hellip;
</div>

See? Now, you must remember that the Holy Spirit is your divinity held
in trust while you&rsquo;re dallying with the ego. But &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you would remember your Father, [you must] let the Holy Spirit order
your thoughts&hellip;
</div>

You must let that which you divinely Are order your thoughts&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and give only the answer with which He answers you.
</div>

&hellip; the only answer your divinity gives you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Everyone seeks for love as you do, and knows it not unless he joins with
you in seeking it.
</div>

From where? From something outside the definitions that either one of
you created for yourselves.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you undertake the search together, you bring with you a light so
powerful that what you see is GIVEN meaning.
</div>

When you are looking with the vision that your divinity&mdash;the Holy
Spirit&mdash;provides, everything you see is illuminated a new to you
who have not looked at what things really are for a very long time.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The lonely journey fails because it has excluded what it would FIND.
</div>

You see? What you would find is the Truth, what you would find is the
Kingdom of Heaven that is your Home, what you would find is your
conscious experience of Reality. But as long as you were insisting on
making it up, creating an imaginary different reality from Creation, you
were blinded to Reality and to your Self. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As God communicates to the Holy Spirit in you, so does the Holy Spirit
translate His communications THROUGH you so YOU can understand them.
</div>

Isn&rsquo;t that something? This is very important.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is impossible to remember God in secret and alone.
</div>

It&rsquo;s impossible to know the Truth in secret and alone. If you want
to know the Truth, you have to want to know the Truth for your brother.
Until you want to know the Truth for and about your brother&mdash;until
you want to know that&mdash;you will see the definitions you have
applied to him. And you will be influenced by the definitions he has
given to himself. But when you want to know the Truth of your brother
because you love your brother, and it&rsquo;s being too uncomfortable to
be unconscious of it any longer, then the Holy Spirit will reveal to you
what to share with your brother. And as that happens, it is revealed to
you. And that&rsquo;s the way Atonement works. It&rsquo;s utterly
simple.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God has no secret communications, for everything of Him is perfectly
open, and freely accessible to all, being FOR all.
</div>

Not just those inside the wall, not just for those kept outside, not
just for those who are identified as different, or not just for you who
is different from everyone else.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Nothing lives in secret, and what you would hide from the Holy Spirit is
nothing.
</div>

[Chuckling] It&rsquo;s pure imagination, pure fantasy. It&rsquo;s
nothing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Every interpretation YOU would lay upon a brother is senseless.
</div>

And likewise, every interpretation you would lay upon any part of your
world or universe is senseless.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Let the Holy Spirit SHOW him [your brother] to you&hellip;
</div>

Isn&rsquo;t that the point of the holy instant? &ldquo;Father, show me
the more of what You&rsquo;re being right there where my brother is than
what I&rsquo;m presently seeing.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Let the Holy Spirit SHOW him to you, and teach you both his love and
need for love. Neither his mind NOR YOURS holds more than these two
orders of thought.
</div>

Love and the call for Love&mdash;the need for Love.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The miracle is the recognition that this is true.
</div>

You know, your function is to Love or answer the call for Love. It is
for you to see Love or the call for Love in your brothers and sisters
and not to see what you&rsquo;ve come to believe about him because of
the definitions, the awful definitions, the critical, the arrogant
definitions you&rsquo;ve applied to him.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Where there is love, your brother must give it to you because of what it
IS. But &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and here&rsquo;s the important part.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
But where there is NEED for love&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; which, of course, would come to you as a call for
Love&mdash;which means a behavior that is questionable or mean-spirited,
not loving &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
But where there is NEED for love, YOU must give it because of what YOU
are.
</div>

You see? Where there is a call for love&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; where there is NEED for love, YOU must give it because of what
YOU are.
</div>

Not what you believe yourself not to be, not the definition you&rsquo;ve
built up in the world about what you are, but the divine one, the Son of
God or the Daughter of God that you Are. You, who you divinely are right
here and right now, are the light of the world. It&rsquo;s your function
to illuminate love, to illuminate Truth.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Long ago we said this course will teach you what you are, restoring to
you your identity.
</div>

Restoring You to you&mdash;what is called the Holy Spirit, the rest of
You, the Wholeness of You that never stopped being the Wholeness of You.
And how do you do it? By being involved with your brother, by caring, by
extending consideration, by removing walls and barriers and any practice
of privacy that you might have enjoyed practicing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Long ago we said this course will teach you what you are, restoring to
you your identity. We have already learned that this identity is shared.
</div>

It&rsquo;s that in which all exists&mdash;worlds upon worlds, brothers
upon brothers, sisters upon sisters all embraced in the conscious
experience of Being that you Are.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The miracle becomes the MEANS of sharing it. By supplying your identity
wherever it is NOT recognized, YOU will recognize it.
</div>

There it is again. What you need to know you need to give. Wow! That
sounds like an impossibility, doesn&rsquo;t it? What you need to learn
you must give &hellip; um-m &hellip; &ldquo;what you don&rsquo;t know,
you must give,&rdquo; is what it&rsquo;s saying.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And God Himself, Who wills to be with His Son forever, will bless each
recognition of His Son with all the love He holds for him. Nor will the
power of ALL His Love be absent from any miracle you offer to His Son.
</div>

Now how do you make an offer of a miracle to a Son of God, a Brother, a
Sister? You begin with an intent, a desire&mdash;not an intellectual
project but something arising out of a need felt in you to connect, to
be not isolated any longer.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
How, then, can there be any order of difficulty among them?
</div>

&hellip; among miracles.

Now, the subheading here is:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Test of Truth
</div>

And it begins with something quite amazing, utterly simple but not what
you would logically expect. I&rsquo;m going to back up for the flow.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And God Himself, Who wills to be with His Son forever, will bless each
recognition of His Son &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning every recognition you engage in of another who is
God&rsquo;s Son or Daughter.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; will bless each recognition of His Son with all the love He
holds for him.
</div>

&hellip; which will come through you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Nor will the power of ALL His Love be absent from any miracle you offer
to His Son.
</div>

Your Brother or Sister.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
How, then, can there be any order of difficulty among them?
</div>

Here&rsquo;s the key sentence:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet the essential thing is learning that YOU DO NOT KNOW.
</div>

Oh, I know you&rsquo;ve grown up. You&rsquo;ve learned from your
parents. You&rsquo;ve gone to school. You&rsquo;ve been educated.
You&rsquo;ve learned many things. And life has taught you lessons. And
you think you know. But here&rsquo;s the crux. Anything that you know
that was not provided by the Father, because He is the Creator of All
That actually Is, is false knowledge. It isn&rsquo;t Knowing anything
truly.

Creation is the only thing available to you to be conscious of. But when
Creation is overlaid by definitions arrived at through logic and
reasoning and imagination, but not a connection with the Source of
Creation, that knowledge is meaningless.

The essential thing is learning that you do not know. That&rsquo;s a
hard one &hellip; because you each have such devotion to what
you&rsquo;ve learned. And you depend upon what you&rsquo;ve learned to
have some sense of stability and order and control. But if there&rsquo;s
no yielding to God, if there&rsquo;s no partnership, if there&rsquo;s no
camaraderie, if there&rsquo;s no union with God, you&rsquo;re living in
an illusion&mdash;you are deluded for the time being until something
occurs that causes you to feel a need for something you truly
don&rsquo;t have a definition for, so that this need causes you to cry
out for help, and not arrogantly attempt to be self-sufficient!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Knowledge is power, and all power is of God. You who have tried to keep
power for yourselves &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you who have tried to keep power for yourselves &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
 &hellip; have lost it.
</div>

You&rsquo;ve simply ignored it. You stopped paying attention to it.
You&rsquo;ve stopped owning it because you&rsquo;re trying to create an
independent sense of power that&rsquo;s to your personal, private
credit. And so, you&rsquo;ve lost the power of knowledge that is
inherent in, inseparable from God&rsquo;s Knowing of his Creation.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You still have the power, but you have interposed so much between it and
your AWARENESS of it that you cannot use it.
</div>

You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Everything you have taught yourselves &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; by virtue of reasoning and logic and imagination.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Everything you have taught yourselves has made your power more and more
obscure to you.
</div>

And heavens, it&rsquo;s only in the light of [chuckling] the Truth that
has become obscure to you, or to those in your world, that at this very
moment the attempts to disintegrate and to establish independence would
be seen as the means to create safety and stability.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You know not WHAT it is &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; power &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; nor WHERE. You have made a semblance of power and a show of
strength so pitiful that it MUST fail you.
</div>

And it is failing you&mdash;not you personally, in the larger sense that
is occurring in the world, but you personally as you apply it to the way
you approach what is going on in the world.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For power is not a seeming strength, and truth is beyond semblance of
any kind. Yet all that stands between you and the power of God in you is
but your learning of the false, and your attempts to undo the true.
</div>

You&rsquo;ve learned the false by creating fantasies and then calling
the fantasies true and operating on the basis of those fantasies. Whew!
When you get to that place where you&rsquo;re at the end of your rope,
where you feel the need, then you finally arrive at the point where you
can &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Be willing, then, for all of it to be undone, and be glad that you are
not bound to it forever. For you have taught yourselves how to imprison
the Son of God&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Son of God that you Are &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; a lesson so unthinkable that only the insane, in deepest sleep,
could even dream of it.
</div>

That sounds like a terrible indictment. But, you see, you can&rsquo;t be
insane. And you have not stopped being the Son or Daughter of God and,
therefore, the recognition that you&rsquo;re engaged in something that
simply does not work and cannot work means that no matter what words are
used to describe that insane state of mind, you have an answer, one
built right into the very center of your Being&mdash;your
Self&mdash;which at the moment is recognizable as the Holy Spirit.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Can God learn how NOT to be God? And can His Son, given all power by
Him, learn to be powerless? What have you taught yourselves that you can
possibly prefer to keep, in place of what you HAVE and what you ARE?
</div>

&hellip; divinely speaking. What you have taught yourselves that you
prefer is the &ldquo;hit,&rdquo; the ego strokes that make you feel
important and worthwhile and respectable, and all that is good, and
[chuckles] the fact that all of it has been created by you out of
nothing! You prefer that because it&rsquo;s exciting, it&rsquo;s
stimulating and it&rsquo;s also constantly occurring in a state of fear
because you can lose it. And the only reason you can lose it is because
it wasn&rsquo;t Real in the first place, it isn&rsquo;t what was your
Birthright in the first place.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Atonement &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the last miracle &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; teaches you how to escape forever from everything that you have
taught yourselves in the past by showing you only what you are NOW.
</div>

How can you see what you are now if you don&rsquo;t let go of all the
thoughts, all the definitions that you have accumulated, that you wrap
around yourselves for your identity? The present is obscured by a
garment of memories made up of ideas that weren&rsquo;t gathered from
communion with God. And so, if you&rsquo;re willing to look straight at
it, it means that there&rsquo;s all the justification in the world for
daring to say, &ldquo;Father, I wish to see the more of what
You&rsquo;re being, than what I&rsquo;m presently seeing. I wish to see
Reality as it Is instead of Reality as I have defined It.&rdquo; Because
it&rsquo;s in that request, it&rsquo;s in that desire &hellip; felt
&hellip; that communication is opened up, relationship can be
experienced, because you have abandoned the arrogant independence. You
see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Learning HAS BEEN accomplished before its effects are manifest.
</div>

That&rsquo;s always the way it is. Learning comes first and then you
experience the effects of it. And so, if you learn that life is rough,
that life is unfair, that it takes great personal strength to survive
and it&rsquo;s a constant battle, you will have the effects of that. But
if you abandon the definitions you make up and you say, &ldquo;Father,
what is the truth here?&rdquo; And through the Holy Spirit&mdash;your
divinity held in trust&mdash;the Father says, &ldquo;Be at peace. I am
All There Is of You. And you and I are not threatened, or vulnerable, or
incapable of seeing how loveable everything is, and how we can dare to
extend that love without fear. Be at peace.&rdquo; Then you will have
the effects of that.

But the learning must come first. The willingness must be there first.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Learning is therefore in the past, but its influence determines the
present by giving it whatever meaning it holds for you.
</div>

Again, if the meaning it holds for you comes from your own
determination, it will be flawed, it will be unsafe, without your
defending it, and you will always be afraid of losing control.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
YOUR learning gives the present no meaning at all.
</div>

You know what? That&rsquo;s a very simple sentence and we could stop
here with that.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
YOUR learning gives the present no meaning at all.
</div>

It happens to be the simple truth. Going back to the top of this
section:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[Yet] the essential thing is learning that YOU DO NOT KNOW.
</div>

Such a simple thing. If you&rsquo;re willing to consider the possibility
that you do not know in its fullness what the Father is being as all of
Creation, including you, then it all awaits you the moment you&rsquo;re
willing to consider the seemingly irrational possibility that you
don&rsquo;t know anything at all, and there&rsquo;s no value in what you
think you know.

And you know what? I&rsquo;m encouraging everyone to consider that
possibility before the need becomes so great that you do it because you
no longer have a choice&mdash;because you are hurting so much because
the illusion is collapsing, and your definitions aren&rsquo;t keeping
you safe any longer because the Atonement is unfolding.

Here&rsquo;s another simple statement:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Nothing you have ever learned can help you understand the present, or
teach you how to undo the past. Your past IS what you have taught
yourselves. LET IT ALL GO. Do not attempt to understand any event, or
anything, or anyone in its light, for the light of darkness by which you
try to see can ONLY obscure.
</div>

Now, you know what the simplicity of all this boils down to? It boils
down to the meaninglessness and the uselessness of thinking!

In Hawaii, the Hawaiians have a phrase, &ldquo;talking story.&rdquo;
They talk story. And you know what? Thinking is a way of talking story.
You think and create a story about what things mean, or what things will
mean, or what you mean and then you believe the story you frighten
yourself with. Or, or you build up, [chuckling] you create, a sense of
well-being by creating a story that doesn&rsquo;t involve threat but
involves personal capabilities that you have in your own right.

The culprit is thinking. And Knowing is never the result of thinking.
Knowledge is never the result of thinking. Knowledge is a discovery.
Knowledge is a revelation. Knowledge is an &ldquo;aha&rdquo; experience.
But &ldquo;aha&rdquo; experiences don&rsquo;t happen until you are, in
one way or another, free of the arrogance of self-determination, and in
a moment of, we&rsquo;ll say, ego weakness you let something else in.
The wall goes down. The boundary isn&rsquo;t reinforced. Independence
isn&rsquo;t valued quite as much as it was. And then in the total
absence of thinking, the light bulb goes on. An &ldquo;aha&rdquo;
occurs, a miracle happens&mdash;a sudden shift of perception.

What we&rsquo;re talking about here is a willingness to go through your
day without valuing thinking, without engaging in thinking, but
insisting instead to maintain a silence, I&rsquo;m going to call it a
&ldquo;silent attentiveness.&rdquo; A silent attentiveness arising out
of a felt desire to know the Truth that the Holy Spirit&mdash;your
divinity&mdash;will reveal to you in that moment about what is going on
in that moment truly and how to behave relative to it.

You don&rsquo;t do this so that you can have new data to think about and
then resume your habit of living, controlling your life based upon
thinking with a new habit, with new details, new definitions.
We&rsquo;re talking about learning to stand at the threshold of the
unknown forever, because you want to know what God is
&ldquo;thinking&rdquo;&mdash;for lack of better words&mdash;because you
want to know what Knowledge is. You want to experience Creation without
distortion, without the distortion that accompanies your thinking about
it, and thinking that thinking is valuable.

This is what Atonement is about. And this is the miracle that is
unfolding on your globe with you &hellip; and you &hellip; and you
&hellip; wherever you are on the globe. Do not misunderstand what is
happening. And be willing to be disciplined when it comes to the
temptation to think.

Now, Paul, has been learning something very valuable. And that is that
there is a red flag that always goes up whenever he or anyone
else&mdash;whenever you engage in thinking. And that is emotion. When
fear or anger or righteousness, or the attempt to assert &hellip; the
feeling of the need to assert powerful action &hellip; when that comes
to you, you&rsquo;re hooked. And you&rsquo;ve already become hooked by
virtue of thinking, because the minute you think, you&rsquo;ve abandoned
your groundedness in your Being.

If you become emotional about what you call a problem, or if you become
emotional about something absolutely wonderful that has happened,
you&rsquo;re off balance. That which is a problem cannot successfully be
dealt with in the presence of emotion because it blinds you to simple
intelligence and the ability to hear what the Holy Spirit is revealing
about how to be in the presence of what &ldquo;the story you&rsquo;ve
told yourself&rdquo; has caused you to be afraid of.

Whenever you start feeling emotion, you can say, [snaps fingers]
&ldquo;Aha! I have started thinking. And as long as I am thinking, I
cannot possibly hear the Voice for Truth. And I am not going to put
myself in that vulnerable position.&rdquo; And then, even though you
don&rsquo;t know the answer but you think you do&mdash;and what you
think the answer is, is scaring you&mdash;in spite of that, set it down,
because it&rsquo;s a misinterpretation, it&rsquo;s a misunderstanding of
what you&rsquo;re faced with.

You&rsquo;re either faced with Love or a call for Love. And you want to
be able to answer the call for Love from the Love in you that reveals
how to be the transforming presence that removes the threat or the
problem. But it won&rsquo;t happen if you don&rsquo;t abandon the
confidence you think you need to have in what you already believe.
It&rsquo;s that simple. &ldquo;Oh, I am feeling fear. Wow, I&rsquo;m
going to stop, even though the fear seems justifiable. I&rsquo;m going
to stop because the fear is not the peace that is needed in which
clarity will be experienced, because it naturally flows when I have not
created a wall of defense by indulging in fear and thinking.&rdquo; You
see?

Yes, when you do that you don&rsquo;t know the answer, but you stand at
the threshold of the answer by virtue of doing it. And you stand there
at the threshold of the answer &hellip; the answer &hellip; the answer
&hellip; the answer &hellip; the answer &hellip; ad infinitum. And
it&rsquo;s God revealing &ldquo;God as All&rdquo; over &hellip; and over
&hellip; and over &hellip; except it&rsquo;s, &ldquo;Behold, I make all
things new &hellip; new &hellip; new &hellip; new &hellip; new.&rdquo;

You see how simple this is? And how important it is?

If you begin to practice it, you&rsquo;ll find it&rsquo;s not easy when
fear or anger or self-righteousness, or judgment comes up. But if you
recognize the presence of fear, anxiety&mdash;the presence of emotion in
you&mdash;and let that be the trigger that snaps you out of your
fascination with the details of what you&rsquo;re angry about, or
fearful of, then you will find yourself extricated from the story
you&rsquo;ve told yourself. And you&rsquo;ll be able to give your
attention to the Holy Spirit, through which God speaks to you because it
is your divinity held in trust while you&rsquo;re feeling separated, and
choosing to be separated.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Put no confidence at all in darkness &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning the things you&rsquo;ve imaginatively created.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Put no confidence at all in darkness to illuminate your understanding,
for if you do you contradict the light, and thereby THINK you see the
darkness.
</div>

You thereby THINK&mdash;&ldquo;talking story,&rdquo;&mdash;describing
darkness, describing what isn&rsquo;t true and scaring yourself to
death.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet darkness cannot BE seen, for it is nothing more than a condition in
which seeing becomes impossible.
</div>

When you are thinking, it becomes impossible to Know, because Knowing is
revealed by God through the Holy Spirit to you so that you might extend
it as a blessing upon your world and, by doing it, heal
yourself&mdash;heal the misperception.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You who have not yet brought all of the darkness you have taught
yourselves unto the light in you can hardly judge the truth and value of
this course.
</div>

&hellip; or of the holy instant, or of the fact that the Holy Spirit is
your divinity, you holy Son or Daughter of God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet God did not abandon you. And so you have another lesson sent from
Him, ALREADY learned for every Child of light by Him to Whom God gave
it.
</div>

Who did God give it to? You. But it&rsquo;s the &ldquo;Holy
Spirit&rdquo; part of you, that you have disowned. But nevertheless, it
has been given to you, the one you divinely Are. And the one you
divinely Are has it right now, available to illuminate the one hiding in
the closet, the one hiding in the middle of a false definition, the one
hiding inside a bubble &hellip; so easily popped.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This lesson shines with God's glory, for in it lies His power, which He
shares so gladly with His Son. [With you.]
</div>

Now, this is a lot to think about. [Laughing] This is a lot to absorb,
and yet it&rsquo;s not a lot at all, because it&rsquo;s simply the need
to recognize that you have two choices available to you as part of your
Atonement. Those two choices are between &ldquo;thinking&rdquo; and
&ldquo;Listening.&rdquo; It is the choice to Listen and not think. And
to Listen standing at the edge of what you don&rsquo;t know, with faith
that you will be infilled with the Answer, with the Knowledge necessary
to be fully in the present without being at odds with it in any way, so
that you might be in relationship with your brother and sister and the
world and the universe without fear, with peace and with the capacity to
relate to and with everyone with embrace, with the willingness to be
with everyone, with the desire to see the Presence of God there, so that
you might not introduce anything foreign to Creation, and thus, be an
agent for change who heals himself, who is transformed by his or her
willingness to risk the chance that, as the saying goes, &ldquo;letting
go and letting God&rdquo;[^3] will be the answer.

Again, the unity, the unification which is embracing the world against
the ego&rsquo;s will, will be facilitated by each one practicing the
holy instant, beginning to choose throughout the day for Listening
instead of thinking, and valuing the red flag of emotion when it
occurs&mdash;no matter how hooked you seem to be by the emotion in the
moment&mdash;so that you can shift your attention from the emotion and
the details of what have gotten you upset, and give your attention to
the Source of clarity, the Source of what the Truth is that is not
frightening, that is not threatening and that is of such infinite power,
because it&rsquo;s Love, that it promotes the Atonement, the sudden
shift of perception.

Now, I encourage everyone to read to the end of this chapter. But we
will continue next week picking right up from where we left off. Take
some time to see how simple the message is that we&rsquo;re talking
about, so that as you go through your days this week you let the
presence of emotion alert you to the fact that you are thinking quite on
your own, which you do not want to do, because it&rsquo;s the way you
maintain your divorce from God and keep the experience of orphanhood, in
all of its miserableness, going.

I love you very much, and I look forward to being with you next time.

[^1]: [Manual of the Mother Church First Church of Christ](https://en.wikisource.org/wiki/Page%3AManual_of_The_Mother_Church.djvu/64)
[^2]: T14.5 The Shift to Miracles
[^3]: Bible verses about ["Letting
  go"](https://www.kingjamesbibleonline.org/Bible-Verses-About-Letting-Go/)

