---
title: Sep 23, 2017
ref: "T14.6 The Test of Truth"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

I&rsquo;m going to jump right into the book, starting with the last full
sentence on page 342 in the Sparkly book.

It says:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Nothing you have ever learned can help you understand the present, or
teach you how to undo the past. Your past IS what you have taught
[yourself].[^1]
</div>

And then in all capital letters it says:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
LET IT ALL GO. Do not attempt to understand any event, or anything, or
anyone in its light, for the light of darkness by which you try to see
can ONLY obscure.
</div>

Now, I read that two months ago tonight, the 23rd of July. And when we
finished, I said that we would continue next week. Two months ago
tonight, we were going to continue the next week.

Now, I need to say something: what we have been talking about in the
last two meetings and what we will be talking about tonight constitutes
the single crux of A Course In Miracles. It is either what renders A
Course In Miracles meaningless, fraudulent, silly, ridiculous, useless,
or it is what identifies and manifests its value, its reason for
existing.

What we are reading about, you must understand, is literal. It&rsquo;s
not spiritual, it&rsquo;s not figurative, it&rsquo;s not la-la spouting.
It&rsquo;s literal. Either you take it literally and experience
Atonement because you grasp the meaning and the fact that it requires
being in a new way, or you don&rsquo;t take it as literal, and you
become a sort of fairytale student of a fairytale Course in Miracles
and, for a time, perhaps, feel secure and safe and happy. But it will be
a false happiness, and it will not last simply because we are at this
change-line, we are at this place of transformation, this place of the
undoing of illusion, the place of the end of fragmentation and the
restoration of unity&mdash;which means harmony, which means
relationships inseparable from Love.

Now, when you read:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Nothing you have ever learned can help you understand the present, or
teach you how to undo the past. Your past IS what you have taught
yourselves. LET IT ALL GO.
</div>

[Chuckling] That is absolutely literal! Where does that leave you? Well,
it leaves you in a place of adjustment if you are going to considerate
it to be true&mdash;a place of profound shifting, profound adjustment.

After our last meeting, Paul, indeed, felt and understood what had come
out of his mouth. And yet, the next day, he hadn&rsquo;t been out of bed
three minutes before he opened up his mouth and spoke for himself. In
other words, there was no inquiry of me or the Holy Spirit as to what to
do next or what to address or what needed attention. He was quite
confident that he knew what to do. But you know what? There was an edge
to it, an edge which Susan recognized immediately as him not being in
his peace. And she called him on it. In other words, she brought it to
his attention. And he had an argument to it. I mean after all, he had
just woken up &hellip; what could she expect? &hellip; give him a
chance.

There was a mean-spirited attitude right under the surface of his
attention when he got up. And he was offended at being called upon it.
After perhaps twenty minutes of vigorous interchange, he yielded, he
stopped in his self-assertive independent process, and he did join with
me, and he was able to see that, indeed, he wasn&rsquo;t joined.

Now, I am aware that during the past two months many of you have
experienced frustration, anger, pervasive negativity, jealousy, hurt
feelings. In other words, being offended in one form or another. Why?
Because you weren&rsquo;t being given credit, you weren&rsquo;t being
acknowledged, your dignity, your respectability was being overridden or
ignored. It&rsquo;s important to understand then that when credit
is not being given to you, when praise and appreciation and that which
acknowledges your sense of worth is not extended to you, you get upset.
Pay attention when you are caught up in emotion, look and see whether
you are upset because you&rsquo;re not being given credit for something
that you should be being given credit for.

&ldquo;Well, I&rsquo;m not being given credit for what I know. I&rsquo;m
not being given credit for all the experience I&rsquo;ve had that has
proven to me how things work and that, therefore, what I share and what
I say is meaningful and valuable and should be appreciated.&rdquo; You
know, think about it, when you operate on the basis of credit in your
negotiations and interactions with others, you are spending something
you don&rsquo;t actually have. And that&rsquo;s why you&rsquo;re doing
it on credit.

Now, when you operate independently, when you have abandoned your
connection with the Holy Spirit&mdash;which is that of you which is held
in trust while you dally with the ego&mdash;when you act independent of
your Self, which is the full Expression of the Father, you&rsquo;re
operating on credit. In other words, you are spending identity that you
don&rsquo;t have actually. It&rsquo;s imagined. You are expressing a
self that isn&rsquo;t actual, and you are expecting the same return that
you would get if you were Real, if you were behaving as the holy Son or
Daughter of God that you actually Are.

To be given credit is a means you have of feeding your pride, of proving
to yourself that you are worthwhile. And you know what? Oh, if:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your past IS what you have taught yourselves.
</div>

&hellip; and you need to:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
LET IT ALL GO.
</div>

Where&rsquo;s your worth, where is all of it that you&rsquo;re supposed
to be given credit for? It&rsquo;s insulting.

Now, over the past two months Paul has certainly talked with me. We have
had discussions, but he and I having discussions with each other
isn&rsquo;t Paul relating to his Brother or Sister, his fellowman, his
wife from that which is Real in him. And most of the engagement has
been&mdash;what shall I say&mdash;void of the fullness and the meaning
and the value that his connection with me provides him as well as those
to whom he extends our joining. And that is key. And it is key for every
single individual.

Waking up involves caring about your Brother enough to put yourself in
the position of being able to provide something of value to your
Brother, which you must avail yourself of by abandoning your
self-reliance and leaning into the Holy Spirit or the Father or me to
gather the clarity of Mind that it&rsquo;s your Birthright to be
experiencing, and the place from which you are to function. It&rsquo;s
in the giving of not your perspective but the Perspective of the Holy
Spirit, which is truly your right Mind. And in so doing, being infilled
with the Father&rsquo;s Perspective, which the Holy Spirit&mdash;your
right Mind&mdash;reveals. In the revealing of It to your Brother,
it&rsquo;s revealed to you, and you experience who you Are and how you
function and what your purpose is. You come Home. The Atonement is
experienced. And the struggle is over.

Now, it says:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Do not attempt to understand any event, or anything, or anyone in its
light&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the light of your learning and your arriving at imaginative
definitions to be applied to what God has already Created.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; for the light of darkness by which you try to see can ONLY
obscure.
</div>

Now, the darkness isn&rsquo;t always negative. The darkness can be you
feeling very confident about what&rsquo;s good and your insistence on
confronting your Brother or Sister with that which is good for their
benefit, of course, but also for yours. The darkness is the expression
of learning that hasn&rsquo;t been acquired from union with God, from
your love of God, and your being willing to accept the fact that your
expressing the Father&rsquo;s Perspective as the Father reveals it to
you now &hellip; now &hellip; now &hellip; now is the experience, the
divine experience of Being.

Now, part of what irritated Paul was that there were things he wanted to
do, there were good ideas he felt he had that would promote better
well-being for him. And it would employ skills and things that he was
capable of that he thoroughly enjoyed doing and that he knew he did well
and that he knew would reflect well on him. So, if he were to be
connected with me or the Holy Spirit in every moment, guided by the
Father&rsquo;s Perspective as it flowed through the Holy Spirit, he
would be deprived of doing some really great things.

Now, I&rsquo;ve mentioned before that many who are incarnating at this
time are here for one last fling in humanhood, in materiality, one last
fling before never being able to experience again the thrills and the
fear of being mortal or of being manipulative or of being
ultra-controlling and so on. It&rsquo;s an attitude which apparently
creates and determines worth&mdash;or at least that&rsquo;s the ego hit
that comes from it. But the fact is that everyone is here, everyone is
in this position of learning because your Birthright, being the Son or
Daughter of God that you Are, the direct present Expression of God
because it is what you are to resume being consciously instead of
pushing it into the unconscious while you fill the foreground of
consciousness with your own terrific ideas.

When it says to LET IT ALL GO all of your learning, all of your past, to
let it all go is so insulting to the ego because you&rsquo;re not going
to be able to get the hit, the drug like hit, the high of importance and
greatness and power.

Continuing. And I&rsquo;ve started back a little bit with what we
covered last time so that there&rsquo;s a lead into what we&rsquo;re
going to read tonight.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Put no confidence at all in darkness &hellip;
</div>

In other words, in your memory, in your conclusions, in your learning,
in the learning you taught yourself, even the goodness that you&rsquo;ve
taught yourself that you would try to manipulate others with for their
good.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Put no confidence at all in darkness to illuminate your understanding,
for if you do you contradict the light, and thereby THINK you see the
darkness. Yet darkness cannot BE seen, for it is nothing more than a
condition in which seeing becomes impossible.
</div>

When you&rsquo;re getting credit for being something you aren&rsquo;t,
then seeing and experiencing who you Are becomes impossible. It&rsquo;s
not your goal; the opposite is the goal.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You who have not yet brought all of the darkness you have taught
yourselves unto the light in you &hellip;
</div>

You see, that&rsquo;s the important point. The Holy Spirit is nothing
more than your right Mind held in trust while you dally with the ego.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You who have not yet brought all of the darkness you have taught
yourselves unto the light in you &hellip;
</div>

unto the Holy Spirit

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; can hardly judge the truth and value of this course. Yet God
did not abandon you. And so you have another lesson sent from
Him&hellip;
</div>

God

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; ALREADY learned for every Child of light by Him to Whom God
gave it.
</div>

Well, who did God give it to? God gave it to you, but you&rsquo;re
dallying with the ego so you&rsquo;re ignoring it. So, that of You which
is your right Mind that you&rsquo;re ignoring is what it was given to
[whispering] already, already!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you have another lesson sent from [Him] God, ALREADY learned
for every Child of light &hellip;
</div>

meaning you

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; by Him to Whom God gave it.
</div>

Your divine Self that you Are at this moment, but which you are
insisting on ignoring because you want the hit of being right,
righteous, and being able to be given credit due you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This lesson shines with God's glory, for in it lies His power&hellip;
</div>

not yours

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; which He shares so gladly with His Son.
</div>

But, Paul can attest to you that that gift can seem to interfere with
something Paul wants to do or something you want to do. You see? And,
therefore, it&rsquo;s an unwelcome gift because you have to abandon what
you want even though what you want amounts to an act of being an
individuality when it&rsquo;s just an imagination of what an individual
is that you are clinging to desperately to give yourself meaning while
you&rsquo;re on your own. This is important to understand.

More bad news:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Learn of His &hellip;
</div>

God&rsquo;s happiness.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Learn of His happiness, which is YOURS.
</div>

&ldquo;Oh, no it&rsquo;s not! My happiness is when I get to do what I
want to do and come up with something brilliant and fantastic and
recognizably great to everyone who sees it. That&rsquo;s my happiness. I
don&rsquo;t want His happiness&mdash;at least not till I&rsquo;ve had a
chance to have my happiness.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Learn of His happiness, which is YOURS. But to accomplish this, all your
dark lessons must be brought willingly to truth, and joyously laid down
by hands open to receive, not closed to take.
</div>

&ldquo;When you&rsquo;re independent, you got to take what you can get.
Nothing&rsquo;s given, nothing&rsquo;s free. You don&rsquo;t give
anything for free. No one else gives anything for free. You got to find
a way to get it, to take it, to get control of it, to get control of it
away from someone else. That&rsquo;s the way it works.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Every dark lesson that you bring to Him Who teaches light He will accept
from you, because you do not want it.
</div>

That&rsquo;s the zinger! Until you do not want it, you will not give it;
you will not release it to be replaced with what&rsquo;s Real. See? This
is the literalness of it. It&rsquo;s not just pleasant spiritual or
stimulating wonderful spiritual thoughts. It actually involves a
commitment to behave in a new way, the way that identifies you Truly.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Every dark lesson that you bring to Him Who teaches light He will accept
from you, because you do not want it.
</div>

Because you really do not want it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And He will gladly EXCHANGE each one for the bright lesson He has
learned for you.
</div>

The Holy Spirit has learned because the Holy Spirit&mdash;that of you
which is your right Mind&mdash;never forgot it. The Holy Spirit knows it
because the Holy Spirit has never pretended to be something other than
the Presence of God being what God is being.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Never believe that any lesson you have learned APART from Him means
anything.
</div>

Literal, absolutely literal. But where does that leave you? You get up
in the morning or you sit at the table or you start to get up to go to
the car to go shopping &hellip; how do you do that with innocence,
without bringing along with you all your prior definitions regarding
every step you go through. How &hellip; how do you &hellip; how do you
do what you don&rsquo;t know how to do without relying upon the past?

Well, it&rsquo;s simple. It&rsquo;s called the two-step; it&rsquo;s the
practice of the holy instant. You ask, &ldquo;What do I need to
know?&rdquo; You be still, attentively, but ever so quietly for insight.
And you keep doing this over and over until you have it and then seem to
lose it. And you do it until you have it again. And you keep doing it
until having it becomes easier.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have one test, as sure as God, by which to recognize if what you
learned is true. If you are wholly free of fear of any kind, and if all
those who meet, or even think of you, share in your perfect peace, then
you can be sure that you have learned God's lesson, and not yours.
</div>

Well, that&rsquo;s a pretty tall order. Sounds impossible. Why even try?
Because it&rsquo;s not impossible. And only in giving your attention
there like any other endeavor can your capacity be revealed to you, be
uncovered as You.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Unless all this is true there ARE dark lessons in your minds which hurt
and hinder you, and everyone around you.
</div>

You recognize them as experiences of frustration and fear and doubt and
unwanted negativity and seeming to be controlled by elements that you
would run away from screaming if there was a way to get away.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ABSENCE of perfect peace means but ONE thing: You THINK you do not
will for God's Son what His Father wills for him.
</div>

That can mean that you think you do not will for yourself what your
Father wills for you as well as you think&mdash;mind you the operative
word is &ldquo;think&rdquo;&mdash;you think you do not will for your
Brother what his Father wills for him. Why? Because you&rsquo;ve got
your own definition of your Brother and of yourself, and that&rsquo;s
what you will for him or your Sister. You know how your Brother or
Sister should be acting. You&rsquo;ve learned. And you know what? Your
righteous judgment of the fact that they are not behaving the way they
should becomes the focus rather than the correction being the focus.
That&rsquo;s a dark lesson.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Every dark lesson teaches this, in one form or another.
</div>

In other words, that:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You THINK you do not will for God's Son what His Father wills for him.
[And] Every dark lesson teaches this, in one form or another. And each
bright lesson, with which the Holy Spirit will replace the dark ones you
do not accept and hide, teaches you that you will WITH the Father unto
His Son.
</div>

Once again, this only happens in relationship. You must will with the
Father on behalf of your Brother in order for the Will of the Father to
register with you as your true Will and your true nature expressed.
That&rsquo;s the only way it works.

Now:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Do not be concerned how you can learn a lesson so completely different
from everything you have taught yourselves.
</div>

Not only is it completely different, it&rsquo;s almost as though
it&rsquo;s a different self that&rsquo;s done it and your being required
to become a different self from what you Are. That&rsquo;s an impossible
lesson to learn, or so it seems.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Do not be concerned how you can learn a lesson so completely different
from everything you have taught yourselves. How would you know?
</div>

Pure assumption. Something else you taught yourself. That&rsquo;s why
the Holy Spirit is addressing you, constantly insinuating Itself into
your awareness&mdash;your right Mind&mdash;constantly insinuating Itself
into your awareness. That&rsquo;s why I am engaged into the same thing,
and that&rsquo;s why A Course In Miracles could put in print the ideas
that express this truth. Complicated?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
How would you know? Your part is very simple.
</div>

You see? And you need someone to tell you this so that you can dare to
think that perhaps it is simple and that it is possible rather than
impossible. To actually yield to Wisdom that initially seems to be
different from you so, that in yielding to it, it can begin to register
with you as you because you are the holy Son or Daughter of God and not
the independent, struggling, and sometimes succeeding entity that you
have imagined yourself to be and you are suffering from because you are
never truly experiencing your real Being, your real awareness, your real
nature, your absolute safety, your invulnerability, your immortality,
your perfection.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your part is very simple. You need only recognize that everything you
learned you do not WANT.
</div>

You need to come up to the black and white of it. You must be willing
initially to read those words:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You need only recognize that everything you learned you do not WANT.
</div>

You need to read those words and think maybe that&rsquo;s possible,
maybe that&rsquo;s true, maybe I can let go of wanting it not by
struggling with it but by simply shifting my attention to an
inquisitiveness, a reaching out, a desiring for something that I know
nothing of, at least at the moment. It&rsquo;s that simple.
That&rsquo;s&mdash;for lack of better words&mdash;the mechanism.
That&rsquo;s what precipitates Atonement.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Ask to be TAUGHT, and do not use your experiences to confirm what YOU
have learned.
</div>

When you get into this place of decision and commitment, you will be
amazed how quickly the arguments with great vehemence will arise, which,
in so many words, will dissuade you from making the investment of
attention&mdash;of innocent unbiased attention. You&rsquo;ll know
exactly why it won&rsquo;t work or exactly why something else has to be
done first, thus delaying the actual shift, genuine shift to
attentiveness with an expectation of an answer that you&rsquo;re not
providing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Ask to be TAUGHT&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that&rsquo;s the simple step, it&rsquo;s desire.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Ask to be TAUGHT&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you can ask to be taught, but, if it isn&rsquo;t desire,
you&rsquo;re not really asking and you&rsquo;re not really listening.
And all of the arguments that say you don&rsquo;t have that desire will
abide there mumbling around with darkness and mean-spiritedness and
self-righteousness. And it&rsquo;s all a distraction from the simplicity
of bringing innocent attention into the moment.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When your peace is threatened, or disturbed in any way&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; which you will find it will be. [Chuckling] When you get to
that point of being willing to desire to know beyond your present
knowledge, it will come up.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When your peace is threatened, or disturbed in any way&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what do you do?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; say to yourself,

"I do not know what anything, INCLUDING THIS, means.&rdquo;
</div>

Your problem will be that you will think you do know what this means.
And you will want to rely upon and exercise what you have taught
yourself or what you have learned at the hand of anything other than the
Will of the Father Expressed through the Holy Spirit&mdash;which is your
right Mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
"I do not know what anything, INCLUDING THIS, means.&rdquo;
</div>

Again, this is literal. These words mean exactly that. It&rsquo;s not
figurative in any way. It&rsquo;s not some spiritual concept separate
from the actuality of being conscious and engaged in living.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When your peace is threatened, or disturbed [in any way], say to
yourself,

"I do not know what anything, INCLUDING THIS, means.&rdquo;
</div>

And mean it when you say it!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&ldquo;And so I do not know how to respond to it.&rdquo;
</div>

What are you doing here? You&rsquo;re cleaning the slate. You&rsquo;re
getting all the scribbling off of it that you have put on. And you must
be willing to assume that the scribbling is scribbling and not script
that&rsquo;s valid in order to get past the scribbling and see what is
beyond it or behind it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&ldquo;And so I do not know how to respond to it.

And I will not use my own past learning as the light to guide me now."
</div>

That&rsquo;s what you do. It&rsquo;s easy. It&rsquo;s a spontaneous
thing to imagine what doing that all day long regarding everything, what
that would mean, what that would feel like. And imaginations [chuckling]
are not good.

The Father revealing Himself illuminating the Mind that He is in you as
You is what Creation is. That is an experience you should be having
because it&rsquo;s the only Real one. And in spite of the overlay of
imagination that you have laid upon it, it continues to be the only Real
thing there is, and the only actual Movement of Conscious Awareness that
you can have. And when you are willing to skip the traces, to abandon
the halter, to slip out of it&mdash;the halter of your very definite
concepts and opinions and theories&mdash;and you&rsquo;re willing to go
into the &ldquo;not knowing place,&rdquo; that&rsquo;s when the
Atonement can occur. That&rsquo;s when you can slip, as it were, fall
into the underlying arms and actuality of your Being, which is the
Presence of God Being All There Is to You as your experience. This is
what you are daring to abandon your thinking, abandon what you&rsquo;ve
taught yourself. This is what you&rsquo;re being willing to abandon it
for.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">	
By this refusal to attempt to teach yourself what you do not know, the
Guide Whom God has given you &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit and me &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; will speak to you.
</div>

Again, literal fact.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He will take His rightful place in your awareness the instant YOU
abandon it&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; abandon what? What you&rsquo;ve taught yourself &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and offer it to Him.
</div>

&ldquo;Hey, Holy Spirit, if what I think is true is not true, what is
true? If what I&rsquo;m seeing is not what it Really is, what is it
Really? If what I&rsquo;m believing about myself or my Brother is not
true, what is true about myself and my Brother?&rdquo; You see? You
don&rsquo;t have to get a bulldozer or use some extreme power to get rid
of what&rsquo;s standing in the way of your experience of Reality. All
you have to do is say, &ldquo;Hey, Holy Spirit, what&rsquo;s really
going on here?&rdquo; And then not interfere with the answer by
inserting your own confidences, your own thoughts, your own best
theories.

Here it is, more fact:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
YOU cannot be your guide to miracles, for it is you who made them
necessary.
</div>

Literal fact.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
YOU cannot be your guide to miracles&hellip;
</div>

So what does that mean? Mean what a bad boy you are? What a bad girl you
are? Shame on you! You don&rsquo;t deserve anything! No. Since you
cannot be your guide to miracles because it is you who made them
necessary, you can turn to your guide to miracles, which isn&rsquo;t
something foreign to you: it&rsquo;s your own right Mind, the Holy
Spirit, the Presence of God in you as you being All There Is of You, the
experience of which is the experience of wholeness, eternality, and so
on.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
YOU cannot be your guide to miracles, for it is you who made them
necessary. And BECAUSE you did, the means on which you can depend for
miracles has been provided FOR you.
</div>

As I&rsquo;ve said before, the moment you and a Brother or Sister
decided together to make commitment to your own definitions and got a
divorce from the Father, divorced yourself&mdash;became independent from
your Source&mdash;of course, purely imaginarily. The moment you did
that, the actuality of you, which couldn&rsquo;t be separate from you,
became that which was ever-present with you called the Holy Spirit,
whose task naturally was to reintegrate what couldn&rsquo;t really be
disintegrated.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God&rsquo;s Son can make no needs His Father will not meet, if he but
turn to Him ever so little.
</div>

So, don&rsquo;t make a big impossible deal out of [chuckling] doing
things entirely differently, or you&rsquo;ll simply add delay and stress
to the inevitable Awakening. Just dare to become inquisitive,
curious&mdash;curious enough to pay attention&mdash;which means to shut
up so that the Presence of Love can embrace you, so that you can
experience the embrace, so that you might experience transformation and
redemption and everything good that constitutes integration, unity and,
therefore, harmony.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet He &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; God &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; cannot compel His Son to turn to Him, and remain Himself. It is
impossible that God lose His Identity, for if He did, you would lose
YOURS.
</div>

So, absolutely One is Reality that, even though you have pretended to be
independent from the Father, the Father cannot be something unlike
Himself to entice you back or to coerce you back, to be some sort of
force independent from you to affect you. You see? The Oneness is
absolute. So you could say the return is entirely up to you. It&rsquo;s
your decision to say, &ldquo;Everything I know is not true, and I am
going to reach out to the Source of all Being and ask for the Truth to
be revealed to me so that I might learn something new that&rsquo;s
True.&rdquo;

[Raj did not read this sentence: And being yours, He cannot change
Himself, for your Identity IS changeless.]
{: .omit}

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The miracle acknowledges His changelessness &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; God&rsquo;s changelessness &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; by seeing His Son as he always was, and not as he would make
himself.
</div>

&hellip; By imagining he is something different.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The miracle brings the effects which ONLY guiltlessness can bring, and
thus establishes the fact that guiltlessness must BE.
</div>

Guiltlessness Is. It is your nature. It is your judgment. It is the
judgment upon you. You are guiltless. Now that&rsquo;s literal too. And
you are guiltless right now, and the experience of it awaits you when
you dare to stop dead in your tracks. In other words, shut up your mind,
become still&mdash;silent&mdash;and ask a curious question, &ldquo;If
things are not as I am experiencing them, how are they?&rdquo; Again,
don&rsquo;t make a strenuous task out of it. Be simply and genuinely
curious all day long. And be willing to let your curiosity make room for
something that you don&rsquo;t know.

Now, I&rsquo;m going to tell you something: that doesn&rsquo;t mean that
what will be revealed to you isn&rsquo;t something that you already
thought. You will, in your listening for Guidance, find truth in you
confirmed, but it won&rsquo;t be the confirmation of an independent
ego&rsquo;s actions as being the truth. It will be clearly the awareness
of Truth that you might say you always felt, but you will Know It from
the Presence of God in you rather than a shallow imagination.

And this is important to understand. You are not right now full of
nothing but bullshit. But because everything you are consciously
embracing at the moment is being embraced on the basis of your being an
independent thinker, what you are knowing is not the Truth itself in the
fullness of the experience of it as the Presence of God in you as your
identity. But, even so, you must be careful, in light of what I just
said, not to assume that you&rsquo;re going to be able to bring some of
your present awareness with you into the state of being Awake. You must
be willing to abandon everything. Let it all go, everything you thought
you knew. This is very important.

Now, we&rsquo;re going to stop here for tonight. And as I said last
time, I encourage you to read on to the end of the Chapter[^2] between now
and next week. As you read this, read it as though it is absolutely
literal. Be willing to contemplate it in the light of it being literal.
And in light of it being literal, do your best every day, all day long,
to preface as many moments as you can with the thought:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
"I do not know what anything, INCLUDING THIS, means.<br/>
And so I do not know how to respond to it. <br/>
And I will not use my own past learning as the light to guide me now."
</div>

What&rsquo;s that going to do? If you&rsquo;re serious about it, if
you&rsquo;re genuine about it, it&rsquo;s going to put you in a void.
And you need to let yourself be in it, and don&rsquo;t attempt to fill
it up with some very creative thoughts, even positive thoughts. Be
willing to be in the void so that the void can be filled with the
Father&rsquo;s Love uncovering the Truth, uncovering You to you.

And remember not to do it with a vengeance but with a gentle but
definite curiosity, a gentle attention, an undisturbed attention. Let
there be faith that [chuckling] you will be answered. The Holy
Spirit&mdash;that which is nothing more than your right Mind&mdash;is,
of course, ever-present with you constantly intent upon registering with
you. You&rsquo;re not doing this alone. And I am with you, always
available. Accept the fact that we are present to answer&mdash;and will.

You are loved very much. I love you very much. That which is nothing
more than your right Mind, the wholeness of you, the divinity of you
loves you very much and supports you in your willingness to be in the
void for the specific purpose of learning what you don&rsquo;t know yet.
The teaching will occur. The learning will occur. It&rsquo;s guaranteed,
but only when you abandon faith in your own thinking, your own learning
that you have taught yourself, a teaching you are very proud of and a
learning that you take great credit for, all of which blinds you and
hooks you like a drug to an ignorance to what you already Are.

I can very confidently say, that we will continue next week.

[^1]: T14.6 The Test of Truth
[^2]: [T14.6 The Test of Truth at ending point](https://www.christmind.info/acim/text/14/chap1406/#p10)

