---
title: Oct 1, 2017
ref: "T14.6 The Test of Truth"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

Well, how did your week go? When we last talked I encouraged everyone to
preface as many moments as you could with the thought from the Course:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
"I do not know what anything, INCLUDING THIS, means.<br/>
And so I do not know how to respond to it. <br/>
And I will not use my own past learning as the light to guide me now."[^1]
</div>

So, when you turned on the news, or read the newspaper, or got out on
the freeway, or cleaned up from the hurricane, or tried to deal with the
lack of food or water or gasoline or money, did you say:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
"I do not know what anything, INCLUDING THIS, means.&rdquo;
</div>

Or did you, like Paul on many occasions, feel sure that you knew what it
meant. Or maybe you felt sure that the feelings of frustration or anger
&hellip; that you knew what they meant&mdash;that they were legitimate
and that it was appropriate to dwell with them because you knew that
they were justified.

Maybe what you were frustrated with or angry about shifted from moment
to moment or circumstance to circumstance because it wasn&rsquo;t really
the specific issue that you were upset about. You were just upset, and
anything was an appropriate object to vent your upsetness on.

It&rsquo;s when you get bound up with what you are feeling&mdash;and
what you are feeling are reactions&mdash;that you are unable to and
unwilling to acknowledge that you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&ldquo;&hellip; do not know what anything, INCLUDING THIS, means.&rdquo;
</div>

You experience commitment to your feeling. You feel commitment to the
assurance that such-and-such is unjust and that you have a right to be
upset, or angry, or jealous, or futile, or just plain old negative. And
you savor it. You feel it. You turn it over in your mind and taste it,
almost literally. And you get all the flavor out of it that you can
because you&rsquo;re so upset.

Emotions are addicting. Emotions are a trap. And I&rsquo;m going to put
it this way: we&rsquo;ve talked many times about the Fall, about when
you got a divorce from the Father&mdash;which is the definition or the
meaning of the Fall&mdash;when you and a Brother or Sister said,
&ldquo;Let&rsquo;s pretend, let&rsquo;s imagine, let&rsquo;s
imaginatively give new definitions to Creation.&rdquo; And in so many
words, by that decision, you said, &ldquo;See you later Father.
We&rsquo;re going to function on our own in &lsquo;imagination
land&rsquo; and we&rsquo;re going to treat our imaginations as though
they&rsquo;re true. After all, we are omnipotent aren&rsquo;t we? We are
the full Expression of the Father.&rdquo;

But as we&rsquo;ve discussed, when that happened, two things came into
play that had never existed before: fear and guilt. Fear came into play
because when you are denying your Source, you&rsquo;re in a state of
self-denial. When you&rsquo;re in a state of self-denial, you are in an
unbalanced state of mind, an ungrounded state of mind. And because
[chuckling] you are the holy Sons and Daughters of God, because you are
divine, you are unable to create an ungrounded state of mind and be
comfortable, because your holiness, your divine Sanity, your absolute
groundedness confronts your imagination, and the deliberateness with
which you embrace your imagination, and it&rsquo;s uncomfortable. It is
fright-ten-ing. And it&rsquo;s supposed to be. And so, fear came into
the picture.

Now, why? Why is there fear? Because you&rsquo;re afraid you&rsquo;ll be
caught in a state of defying and denying the Father. And so,
you&rsquo;re trapped, because now you have to find a way to prove the
legitimacy of your sense of yourself that isn&rsquo;t your Self, but the
imagined self that you and your Brother or Sister brought into play by
behaving as though you weren&rsquo;t the holy Son or Daughter of God,
but something else&mdash;something independent.

It&rsquo;s that simple.

Now, as I mentioned last time, and before: the Fall is something that is
occurring now &hellip; now &hellip; now &hellip; now, in every moment in
which you are choosing to exercise independence, practice
independence&mdash;behave as though you are on your own with a capacity
to think all by yourself.

Now, the way to break the guilt, the suffering, the fear is not to
succeed in legitimizing yourself, but rather by abandoning the act of
dissociation, the act of separation from your Source&mdash;from your
Father. And you do that by acknowledging:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
"I do not know what anything, INCLUDING THIS, means.<br/>
And so I do not know how to respond to it.<br/>
And I will not use my own past learning as the light to guide me now."
</div>

You see the simplicity of this? It&rsquo;s simple, but it&rsquo;s hard
to embrace because of the commitment you have to the self you think you
are and what you&rsquo;re going to make out of that self that you think
you are.

Okay, it says in the Course:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I am not upset for the reason I think.[^2]
</div>

I&rsquo;m going to add something to it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I am not upset for the reason I think.  I am upset for the reason I
think.
</div>

The first time it was said, the emphasis was on the word
&ldquo;reason&rdquo;:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I am not upset for the REASON I think.
</div>

And the emphasis is on the word &ldquo;think,&rdquo; the second time:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I am upset for the reason I THINK.
</div>

Thinking gets you into trouble. Thinking is an act&mdash;an independent
act&mdash;that is not arising out of your connectedness with your Self.
What you are thinking on your own is so much static, so much
noise&mdash;meaninglessness.

Now, you are always upset because of what you are thinking. You are
always upset because you are engaged in thinking, no matter what the
subject is. The holy instant, the two-step, is the process of abandoning
the thought process, because that is what undoes the Fall. And that is
the issue of what we have been discussing and what we are continuing to
discuss tonight.

Now it is important to see that reaction, emotion is a trap because, as
happened in the Fall, when fear occurs, you become distracted from your
omnipotence, you become distracted from your holiness, you become
distracted from your Source. And the fear present engages you in
attempting to overcome the fear instead of abandoning what caused it.
And in the process of overcoming the fear, you attempt to legitimize the
&ldquo;self&rdquo; you now find yourself experiencing as
&ldquo;you&rdquo;&mdash;which is a fake, which is artificial, which is
imaginary.

And so, you end up in a perpetual state of self-denial, that you are
perceiving as self-affirmation, because you are engaged in trying to
affirm the illusory self that has grasped your attention and trapped
you.

When you are in that state, it does not seem sensible in the slightest
to say:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
"I do not know what anything, INCLUDING THIS, means.&rdquo;
</div>

It does not make sense to say:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&ldquo;I do not know how to respond to it.&rdquo;
</div>

And it doesn&rsquo;t make sense to say:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&ldquo;I will not use my own past learning as the light to guide me
now."
</div>

You&rsquo;re caught in the trap. And the trap says, &ldquo;You must use
your past learning as the light to guide you now.&rdquo; &ldquo;It would
be insane for you to set down your fear.&rdquo; &ldquo;It would be
insane for you to become still, to seek peace, because if you do that,
everything you are afraid of will come upon you and destroy you. And
then you&rsquo;ll know the truth&mdash;the awful truth&mdash;and you
will be sorry.&rdquo;

Now, that&rsquo;s the way the illusion works, that&rsquo;s the way
existence after the Fall functions. And that&rsquo;s what keeps you in a
fallen state, even though you, the holy Son or Daughter of God that you
Are, has not been altered in the slightest. You are still the holy Son
or Daughter of God. You are still the effect of God. You are still the
manifestation of what God is Being right there where you are.
That&rsquo;s unalterable. And that natural eternal experience is present
right now, right where you are, while you are preoccupied with your
fearful sense of being a separate self, which is attempting to bring
forward the courage and the strength and the power to be able to
legitimize yourself in this altered state&mdash;all of which seems good
and respectable and worth every ounce of energy you can apply to it.

&ldquo;What better thing could there be to do than to improve yourself?
That is the purpose of life &hellip; to improve yourself.&rdquo; But it
isn&rsquo;t, it isn&rsquo;t! The need is to choose for your peace in
spite of it, in spite of everything&mdash;to choose for your peace
because, in your peace and in the absence of the struggle to improve
yourself, the wholeness of you has room to register with you and invite
you Home by the very nature of the experience. And that&rsquo;s the
whole point.

And so, in one way or another it must become clear to you that it is
sensible, reasonable and natural to acknowledge that you do not know at
this moment, in this frame of mind that you&rsquo;re in&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
"&hellip; what anything, INCLUDING THIS, means.

And so I do not know how to respond to it.

And I will not use my own past learning as the light to guide me
now"&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; because I don&rsquo;t want to be sucked back into and held
hostage to a false sense of everything that is going on, including an
utterly false sense of who and what I am.

Somewhere along the line this idea has to become familiar to
you&mdash;whether it&rsquo;s understandable or not, whether you are
experiencing it or not, whether it seems possible or not&mdash;because
if this idea doesn&rsquo;t begin to percolate and synthesize in your
awareness, if it doesn&rsquo;t, you won&rsquo;t give your attention to
anything beyond the state of self-protection and self-preservation that
seems normal.

Now, continuing from where we left off last time, which is the 3rd
full paragraph on page 344 of the Sparkly book &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
How can you, so firmly bound to guilt and committed so to remain,
establish for yourself your guiltlessness? That is impossible. But be
sure that you are willing to acknowledge that it IS impossible.
</div>

That&rsquo;s why we must talk about this, so that the idea of what is
true is present to give you justification to make the
&ldquo;idiotic&rdquo; statement that it is impossible for you to
establish your guiltlessness. [Whispering] Why &hellip; why? So that
you&rsquo;ll stop trying.

All of the effort to become something, all of the effort to improve
yourself is to overcome guilt. You&rsquo;re running away from an
illusion&mdash;something that isn&rsquo;t Real. You are not guilty. You
are not the mortal you think you are, or that you seem to be. You are,
and can&rsquo;t ever stop being, the holy Son or Daughter of God. That
means right now.

So, somewhere along the line here, the idea needs to be present in your
mind clearly enough for you to even just imaginatively say, &ldquo;I
can&rsquo;t establish my guiltlessness. And so, I&rsquo;m going to stop
trying.&rdquo;

&ldquo;I will try it out. I will experiment. I will dare to abandon the
fear-motivated intense actions that I have felt I must engage in to
improve myself and to become something.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is only because you think that you can run some little part, or deal
with certain aspects of your lives alone, that the guidance of the Holy
Spirit is limited.
</div>

But it&rsquo;s the little ones that get you. It&rsquo;s the little ones
that sidetrack you. Someone says something to you with a certain tone of
voice, which might have been occasioned by gas in their
intestines&mdash;pain&mdash;and you hear it and you think that it is
making a statement about you, a derogatory statement about you, and
you&rsquo;re quite sure of it.

Well, hey, that isn&rsquo;t a universal truth or a challenge of a
universal issue. It&rsquo;s one of the &ldquo;little&rdquo; things.
[Chuckling] It&rsquo;s really inconsequential. But the reaction from
that little misperception is all it takes to engage you in emotion, fear
and guilt and the need for self-protection! The need for
self-justification! The need to stand up for yourself! The need to prove
yourself! The need to make sure that your validity and worth and
respectability is recognized! And you&rsquo;re willing to do it
vehemently because it is a good cause!

No it&rsquo;s not!

It&rsquo;s a trap! A little inconsequential thing like a mosquito
buzzing around your ear that has nothing to do with the family gathering
at a picnic on a sunny afternoon in a park, where everyone is having
fun. Oh, but no, that mosquito buzzing in your ear gets your attention
and gets you frustrated and even makes you say, &ldquo;Why do we always
have to have a picnic? Why can&rsquo;t we have a family get-together
someplace where there aren&rsquo;t mosquitos?&rdquo; &hellip; grouse
&hellip; grouse &hellip; grouse &hellip; fuss. Really!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is only because you think that you can run some little part, or deal
with certain aspects of your lives alone, that the guidance of the Holy
Spirit is limited.
</div>

Well, of course. You withdraw your attention from the holiness of you,
from the divine nature and character of you which is Love, which sees
peace and is at peace. And so, all that comes through the avenue of
peace, is lost to you &hellip; even though it&rsquo;s there.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Thus would you make HIM &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; undependable, and use this fancied undependability as an excuse
for keeping certain dark lessons from Him.
</div>

[Chuckling] Certain dark lessons, like justified frustration at that
little gnat, that pesky little gnat that just won&rsquo;t leave you
alone when you&rsquo;re trying to have a good time.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And by so limiting the guidance that you would ACCEPT, you are unable to
depend on miracles to answer all your problems for you.
</div>

And that&rsquo;s called &ldquo;the human condition.&rdquo; That&rsquo;s
called everyday life, isn&rsquo;t it? But everyday life is an
interpretation or a distorted perception of, not a day in the Kingdom of
Heaven, but the eternal now that is the Kingdom of Heaven. So all of it
is just a misperception of the ultimate which is going on at this very
moment.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Do you think that what the Holy Spirit would have you GIVE He would
WITHHOLD from you?
</div>

What would the Holy Spirit have you give? The willingness to see your
Brother and your world with His Vision so that you might be Awake, so
that you might experience your Wholeness, so that you might experience
your peace.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have NO problems which He cannot solve by offering you a miracle.
</div>

A miracle&mdash;a sudden shift of perception, right here, right now
&hellip; not pie-in-the-sky after you die.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Miracles are for YOU.
</div>

Miracles are for you.

Four words &hellip; four of the biggest words there are.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Miracles are for YOU.
</div>

They are for no one else but you. Miracles exist for you. You are the
reason miracles exist! Does that say it clearly enough?

You are the reason miracles exist. Why? Because you&rsquo;re the holy
Son or Daughter of God who has forgotten who He or She is and the
miracle is the means by which you are returned to your right Mind. And
that&rsquo;s the only thing they are for. That is their only purpose.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Miracles are for YOU.
</div>

And once you accept the miracle, once you let it in, once you desire it,
you Wake up, and the miracle is no longer needed because there&rsquo;s
no &ldquo;you&rdquo; calling for it. There&rsquo;s no &ldquo;you&rdquo;
needing to Awaken.

So, understand this: Miracles aren&rsquo;t some marvelous events that go
on in the universe for &ldquo;God only knows what reason.&rdquo;
Miracles&mdash;specifically and only&mdash;are for you. They exist
because God, your divinity, insists upon your not being deluded &hellip;
because there is that much Love.

Miracles are Love waiting for you to let It in. And that&rsquo;s the
only reason miracles exist. You are the only reason miracles exist.

Miracles are not favors doled out, &ldquo;If you&rsquo;re a good boy or
girl.&rdquo; Miracles are your very own divinity registering with you,
when you stop trying to act independently and become still enough for
them&mdash;for Who and What you divinely Are&mdash;to register with you
and snap you back into your right Mind &hellip; bring you Home.

Marvelous four words:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Miracles are for YOU. And every fear or pain or trial you have HAS BEEN
undone.
</div>

That means it never was a fact because you never were anything less than
the holy Son or Daughter of God for whom the miracle exists.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He has brought all of them to light&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit, your divinity.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He has brought all of them to light, having accepted them INSTEAD of
you, and recognized they never were. There are no dark lessons He has
not ALREADY lightened for you.
</div>

You, the divine one that you Are at this moment, who never has been less
than Sane, Knows the Truth. And it&rsquo;s only to the degree that you
insist on imagining something that isn&rsquo;t true and trying to make
it true that the holy one, the Sane one that you Are, seems to be hidden
back out of sight somewhere, unavailable. But I&rsquo;m telling you that
the divine one, the holy one that you Are, is not only in the
foreground, it is the ground of Being of you right now. And, literally,
every misperception is a fantasy. Misperceptions are not hard to get rid
of. They&rsquo;re not like the Rock of Gibraltar, a humongous mass of
heaviness.

There are no dark lessons. There is no darkness. There is no
self-centered, self-establishing self in you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The lessons you would teach yourselves He has corrected already.
</div>

You don&rsquo;t have to work your way out of this. You don&rsquo;t have
to, as though you were in prison, hammer rocks into stones and stones
into powder for twenty years before you&rsquo;re released, having paid
for your sins. That self is part of the imagination, which you can say
to:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
"I do not know what anything, INCLUDING THIS, means.

And so I do not know how to respond to it.

And I will not use my own past learning as the light to guide me now."

The lessons you would teach yourselves He &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your right Mind &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; has corrected already. They do not exist in His Mind [in It] at
all.
</div>

They do not exist in You at all.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For the past binds Him &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; You &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; not, and therefore binds not you.
</div>

The limited one you think you are.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He does not see time as you do. And each miracle He offers you corrects
your use of time, and makes it His.
</div>

&hellip; makes it your grounded experience of Reality. You see, this is
all about you coming Home, back into your right Mind, which is the Mind
of God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He Who has freed you from the past would teach you ARE free of it.
</div>

It doesn&rsquo;t teach you how to become free of it. It teaches you are
free of it. You never were bound by it. It never was anything but a
perception, a story you believed and based your actions and thoughts and
emotions on.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He would but have you accept His accomplishments as YOURS because He did
them FOR you.
</div>

Again, the Holy Spirit is nothing less or more than your right Mind.
Your right Mind never lost its full Sane experience of it Self. And so,
it Knows the Truth for you. It would reveal the Truth to you for you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And because He did&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; these accomplishments, He did these for you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; they ARE yours. He has made you free of what you made.
</div>

That which is nothing more than your right Mind has made you free of
what you made, by having forever held you free from what you made.
Because of what you divinely Are, you could never become what you tried
to make of yourself.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You can deny Him&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; but you CANNOT call on Him in vain.
</div>

You can ignore Him, but, if you call upon Him, He will answer. If you
call upon your divinity, it will penetrate the boundaries of your
limited self-perceptions and the imprisoning walls of your self-doubt
and your negative confidences.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; ALWAYS gives what He has made IN PLACE of you. He would
establish His bright teaching so firmly in your mind that no dark
lessons of guilt can abide in what He has established as holy by His
Presence.
</div>

That which is nothing more than your right Mind&mdash;as it infills your
awareness and, therefore, your sense of your mind&mdash;uncovers the
fact that what you called your mind is gone because it was never there.
And you&rsquo;re no longer bringing it to life by giving it your
attention.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Thank God that He &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit, your divinity &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is there and works through you. And all His works are yours. He
offers you a miracle with every one you let Him do through you.
</div>

What you give, you get to keep. Another way of saying that is: what you
give, you incorporate in you. You see?

This is all a matter of learning about You. Not the you you have thought
you are but the divine one that you Are.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God&rsquo;s Son will ALWAYS be indivisible.
</div>

Can&rsquo;t be split into two &hellip; me and not me &hellip; me and
another me. The Real me and the [chuckling] really fabulous imagined me
or a really morbid, depressed, miserable example of a human being.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As we are held as one in God, so do we learn as one in Him.
</div>

When you say that, &ldquo;As we,&rdquo; it means, &ldquo;As I and the
Holy Spirit are held as one instead of the Holy Spirit and fabulous ego
me:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As we are held as one in God, so do we learn as one in Him.
</div>

But you know what? You won&rsquo;t know what it means to be &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; held as one in God&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; until you say:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
"I do not know what anything, INCLUDING THIS, means.
</div>

And, therefore&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; I will not use my own past learning as the light to guide me
now."
</div>

You can&rsquo;t learn that you&rsquo;re &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; held as one in God&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; as long as you&rsquo;re trying to be something on your own and
believe that you are and further believe that God created you that way,
that God created you as a separate entity and gave you free will to make
of yourself what you will, with the proviso that you&rsquo;re supposed
to make the best of yourself. It&rsquo;s not true. It never happened.
God did not give you justification for denying your Source and being
able to be anything other than miserable if you do.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God&rsquo;s Teacher is as like to His Creator as is His Son&hellip;
</div>

Who is God&rsquo;s Teacher? The Holy Spirit, your right Mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God&rsquo;s Teacher is as like to His Creator as is His Son&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; as is the Creator&rsquo;s Son.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and through His Teacher does God proclaim His Oneness AND His
Son&rsquo;s.
</div>

The Holy Spirit is the means by which you learn of the need to abandon
the thought that you can know anything at all by yourself and lead you
to the point where you&rsquo;re willing to make commitment to abandon
any attempt to base your actions upon your independent judgment and
reasoning and, instead, become silent and invite the Holy Spirit to
reveal to you what God is Being.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Listen in silence&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in the absence of your self-assertions of any absence of your
negative feelings which you feel justified in harboring.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Listen in silence, and do not raise your voice against Him.
</div>

[Chuckling] The moment you insert your own judgment or your own hurt
feelings or your own insistence on anything, you&rsquo;re acting against
Him, you&rsquo;re acting against your Source, you&rsquo;re acting in
defiance of your right Mind and, therefore, your natural ever-abiding
Sanity.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For He teaches the miracle of oneness, and before His lesson division
disappears.
</div>

Me and the Holy Spirit, that disappears. What&rsquo;s left is &ldquo;I
Am.&rdquo; And the I Am-ness of it is God Expressing Himself because the
I of You is letting It in, and through, and confirming that It&rsquo;s
All God and not a separate entity called you being God&rsquo;s
spokesman, or God&rsquo;s actor, or God&rsquo;s delivery boy.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Teach like Him here&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; let the Voice for Truth be in your Mind and come out of your
mouth.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Teach like Him here, and you will remember that you have ALWAYS created
like your Father.
</div>

Remember, in the Fall, something unexpected happened: two omnipotent,
omnipresent Sons and Daughters of God decided to use imagination and
deny what everything Really Is by giving it new definitions. And the
unexpected happened: fear and guilt entered the picture and trapped them
in self-preservation and self-improvement.

Now, when one engages in the two-step, when one insists on not using his
own past learning as the light to guide him now, something unexpected
happens just as in the beginning. But it&rsquo;s the reverse: division
disappears &hellip; division disappears. Conflict vanishes. Peace is
restored surprisingly. Surprising, because you wouldn&rsquo;t expect
that to happen from your becoming still, from your not engaging is some
grand act. But there it is: division disappears.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Teach like Him here, and you will remember that you have ALWAYS created
like your Father. The miracle of creation has never ceased, having the
holy stamp of immortality upon it. This is the Will of God for all
creation, and all creation joins in willing this.
</div>

That&rsquo;s the surprise that becomes clear to you, that&rsquo;s the
experience that unexpectedly infills you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Those who remember always that they know nothing, but who have become
willing to learn EVERYTHING, will learn it.
</div>

You see, independence creates, we&rsquo;ll say, static. But when
independence is abandoned, the static disappears. And, we&rsquo;ll say,
the concert, the music of the spheres, the beauty of Creation and
conscious Individuality is clearly there and is clearly experienced.
This is the surprise. This is the miraculous.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
But whenever they trust themselves, they will NOT learn.
</div>

It&rsquo;s so simple. You will see this intellectually at first. And you
can grasp the simplicity of it intellectually. That&rsquo;s the first
step, but then you have to dare to act inwardly on the basis of that
idea and actually become still, and actually in every moment willingly
acknowledge:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
"I do not know what anything, INCLUDING THIS, means.

And so I do not know how to respond to it.
</div>

Well, that pretty well shuts everything down, doesn&rsquo;t it. But you
could try to do something to correct it. And so, there&rsquo;s the third
part:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And I will not use my own past learning as the light to guide me now."
</div>

And so, you must be willing to sit in what seems like the emptiness of
self-expression, and self-assertion, and self-existence. And in the
silence, listen for the Voice for Truth. Be ready for the miracle, which
exists entirely and only for you because you deserve to Wake up, you
deserve not to be bound any longer.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Those who remember always that they know nothing, but who have become
willing to learn EVERYTHING, will learn it. But whenever they trust
themselves, they will NOT learn. They have destroyed their motivation
for learning by thinking they ALREADY know.
</div>

You know that. You&rsquo;ve had that experience, just as well as Paul
knows it and has had the experience even today.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Think not you understand anything until you pass the test of perfect
peace, for peace and understanding go together, and never can be found
alone.
</div>

Why are you ill at ease all the time? Because you don&rsquo;t
understand. But the suggestion is that you&rsquo;re a mortal,
you&rsquo;re an organism, and you were born without understanding
anything. And life itself is the process of gaining understanding. That
feeds into the idea that you&rsquo;re here to become better, that
you&rsquo;re here to perfect yourself.

And so, you&rsquo;re not at peace. But the miracle is discovered in the
act of choosing for your peace in spite of what is going on, in spite of
what you&rsquo;ve been conditioned to react to. Peace can be chosen for
and arrived at. And the miracle is that in arriving at that peace
understanding emerges. You say, &ldquo;Oh, I had an, &lsquo;aha,&rsquo;
experience.&rdquo; And you know what? It came as a wholeness, not as a
little part added to another little part, linearly; the whole thing came
in a sudden flash because understanding is whole. And it comes in the
middle of peace.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Think not you understand anything until you pass the test of perfect
peace, for peace and understanding go together, and never can be found
alone.
</div>

You see? As an independent thinker, you think you understand, you have
come to understanding. There are a whole lot of things you understand.
But it&rsquo;s not understanding because there is no peace.
There&rsquo;s still a lot more you need to understand before
you&rsquo;ll finally be able to be at peace. Right? Okay, then
that&rsquo;s not understanding, that&rsquo;s just highly focused belief.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; peace and understanding go together, and never can be found
alone. Each brings the other WITH it, for it is the law of God they be
not separate. They are cause and effect, each to the other, so where one
is absent the other CANNOT be.
</div>

&hellip; and, therefore, the other is not.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Only those who see they cannot know UNLESS the effects of understanding
are with them can really learn at all.
</div>

That sentence needs to be highlighted.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Only those who see they cannot know UNLESS the effects of understanding
are with them can really learn at all.
</div>

Let that set, because it will be what justifies engaging in the holy
instant, engaging in the two-step in saying:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">	
"I do not know what anything, INCLUDING THIS, means.&rdquo;

And for this, it must be peace they WANT, &hellip;
</div>

Well, Paul knows and you know that there are many times when peace is
not what you want. You want justice. You want to get even. You want
someone to know that they have hurt you, and you want them to pay for
it, you want them to suffer for it. You don&rsquo;t want peace; you want
the self-righteous anger and justification, even though physicians will
tell you that will eat you alive.

Well, the point is, that to the degree that you do not want peace, you
will not choose for peace and understanding. Knowing oneness with the
Father&rsquo;s Mind, in which the experience of Reality in Its Totality
is available to you, will not be experienced. That&rsquo;s too much of a
cost. Self-righteousness isn&rsquo;t that great.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Whenever you think YOU know&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and remember we talked last week about the fact that all of
this is literal. It&rsquo;s literal:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Whenever you think YOU know, peace will depart from you because you have
abandoned the Teacher of Peace.
</div>

And who is the Teacher of Peace? That which is nothing more than your
right Mind&mdash;the Holy Spirit.

I want to remind you that the use of that phrase, &ldquo;Nothing more
than your right Mind&rdquo; relative to the words, &ldquo;the Holy
Spirit,&rdquo; does not appear in the revised versions of A Course In
Miracles, but it does in the Sparkly book and in the original writings.
It is important that those words are being used and are available to
everyone because, as you can see, they are very key to Awakening.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Whenever you think YOU know, peace will depart from you because you have
abandoned the Teacher of Peace.
</div>

That which is nothing more than your right Mind&mdash;the Holy Spirit.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Whenever you fully realize that you know NOT, peace will return, for you
will have invited Him to do so by abandoning the ego on behalf of Him.
</div>

Your right Mind, the Holy Spirit. Literal. Absolute.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Call not upon the ego for anything. It is only THIS that you need do.
</div>

Literal.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is only THIS that you need do. The Holy Spirit will, of HIMSELF, fill
every mind that so makes room for Him.
</div>

You see, in the realization that the Holy Spirit is nothing more than
your right Mind, it will become clear to you that the Holy Spirit is not
floating around in the universal ethers, and then, when you over here
decide to invite the Holy Spirit or to Know the Truth or to Wake up, the
Holy Spirit will come over where you are and infill this little presence
that&rsquo;s somewhere in the middle of the universe. No! Because the
Holy Spirit is nothing more than your right Mind. Then:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Whenever you fully realize that you know NOT, peace will return, for you
will have invited Him to do so by abandoning the ego on behalf of Him.
</div>

See?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Call not upon the ego&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; this tiny sense of self that you are committed to, right in the
middle of the Wholeness of you, causing the rest of the Wholeness of you
to seem to be not you. And so, it has become called the Holy Spirit.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Call not upon the ego&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the little you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; for anything. It is only THIS that you need do.
</div>

Stop reinforcing the bubble that separates the little area inside from
all that&rsquo;s on the outside.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; all that&rsquo;s on the outside, the Wholeness of your Mind
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; will, of HIMSELF, fill every mind that so makes room for Him.
</div>

The minute you let the bubble pop, [chuckling] the only thing that can
happen is for the Allness that&rsquo;s there, to be the Allness that is
All There Is now.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you want peace you must abandon the teacher of attack.
</div>

You must abandon the awful satisfaction that you get from being angry.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Teacher of peace will NEVER abandon you. You can desert Him, but He
will never reciprocate, for His faith in you IS His understanding. It is
as firm as is His faith in His Creator, and He knows that faith in His
Creator MUST encompass faith in His creation.
</div>

The Holy Spirit, as long as you&rsquo;re insisting upon being just a
tiny portion of what the Holy Spirit is, seems to stand between you the
little entity that you claim to be and God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He knows that faith in His Creator &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; He knows that His oneness with God &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; MUST encompass faith in [God&rsquo;s] creation.
</div>

Meaning you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In this consistency &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and unity, I&rsquo;m going to add &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; lies His holiness, which He cannot abandon&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; which the Holy Spirit, you and your right Mind, cannot abandon
and haven&rsquo;t actually abandoned &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; for it is not His Will to do so. With your perfection ever in
His sight&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and when you read those words, I want you to let them stand for
one word, &ldquo;Love.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
With your perfection ever in His sight, He gives the gift of peace to
everyone who perceives the need for peace, and who would have it.
</div>

What&rsquo;s your job?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Make way for peace, and it will come. For understanding is in you, and
from it peace MUST come.
</div>

This is literal.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The power of God, from which they both arise, is yours as surely as it
is His. You think you know Him not &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and &ldquo;think&rdquo; is the operative word.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You think you know Him not only because, alone, it is impossible to know
Him. Yet &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; listen to this &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; see the mighty works that He will do through you, and you must
be convinced you did them through Him.
</div>

[Raj says a few words here, but I the static is too strong to be able to
make out the words well enough to transcribe.]
{: .omit}

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is impossible to deny the Source of effects so powerful they COULD
not be of you.
</div>

You see? We talked about this before. How insulting is that? How
insulting for big things to happen which weren&rsquo;t at your hand, but
[chuckling] you seem to be the delivery boy for.

Again, that&rsquo;s still holding on to the delusion about you being not
just independent in mind but independent in manifestation. You are the
Mind that is God Presenting Himself. But you won&rsquo;t experience what
God is Presenting until you stop trying to take credit for it yourself.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Leave room for Him, and you will find yourself so filled with power that
NOTHING will prevail against your peace.
</div>

[Chuckling] You notice it didn&rsquo;t say, &ldquo;Nothing will prevail
against you.&rdquo; Having a you on your mind to prevail or be prevailed
against is part of the illusion.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Leave room for Him, and you will find yourself so filled with power that
NOTHING will prevail against your peace.
</div>

And if nothing is prevailing against your peace, understanding will be
your experience of Being, and it will be an infinite understanding.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And this will be the test by which you recognize that you have
understood.
</div>

This is simply the Truth. I love you all and I look forward to being
with you next time.

[^1]: T14.6 The Test of Truth
[^2]: ACIM Workbook Lesson 5

