---
title: Jan 2, 2010
ref: "T16.1 True Empathy"
alink: "/acim/text/16/chap1601/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

I won&rsquo;t ask how everyone did on Christmas Day in terms of joining
with me, but I do want to address the practical fact that you all forget
to maintain the contact. And it is totally understandable that you do.
It is not something that you should continue to do but it is
understandable. You&rsquo;re in the habit of thinking&mdash;you say,
&ldquo;thinking on my feet&rdquo;&mdash;thinking in the moment, being
ready with an answer when it&rsquo;s needed spontaneously with the best
intelligence you can bring to bear upon the situation.

You are not used to hesitating. You want to be
&ldquo;Johnny-on-the-spot!&rdquo; And yet, the call is for hesitation if
you want to get out of the habit of loneliness, if you want to get out
of the habit of being alone&mdash;isolated and uncomfortable.
Uncomfortable because that is not natural to you and your innate sanity
still holds sway and lets you know that you&rsquo;re not supposed to be
comfortable doing things all by yourself.

Now, something that might help you get the feel for taking advantage of
the holy instant is the children&rsquo;s game called, &ldquo;Mother, may
I?&rdquo; It&rsquo;s a game in which there&rsquo;s one person who gives
directions to however many other kids are playing together, and he will
say, &ldquo;Mary, stand on one foot!&rdquo; and she&rsquo;s supposed to
say, &ldquo;Mother, may I?&rdquo; before she does it and get an answer,
&ldquo;yes or no.&rdquo;

The skill that&rsquo;s brought into play is brought into play by the
person giving the directions because it&rsquo;s his or her task to give
the direction in such a way that the person will respond without saying,
&ldquo;Mother, May I?&rdquo;

Now, as you go through your day, when you&rsquo;re having an encounter
with a Brother or Sister, when you have to make a decision, when it
comes time to vacuum the floor, instead of saying, &ldquo;Mother may
I?&rdquo; You need to say, &ldquo;Holy Spirit, are you with me? Holy
Spirit, may I begin now? Raj, is it time to do this?&rdquo; And start
out with yes or no questions, questions that can be answered, yes or no.
Because you will find yourself able to hear the yes or no answers more
easily than a complex answer.

Now, you&rsquo;re going to find that if you&rsquo;re taking this
seriously, that your ego is going to object. &ldquo;Come-on, you mean
I&rsquo;ve gotta ask every single time? You&rsquo;ve gotta ask every
single time, that&rsquo;s not right&mdash;just do it!&mdash;just do it!
You know how to vacuum the floor, you know how to load the dishwasher,
you know how to wash the car &hellip;&rdquo;

Well, you may know how to do those things, but when you&rsquo;re doing
them by yourself, you&rsquo;re impaired. You are not experiencing the
fullness of your Being that it&rsquo;s your Birthright to be
experiencing. And as we&rsquo;ve discussed, it causes you to see this
world in which you&rsquo;re doing these things all by yourself, as
something other than the Kingdom of Heaven. Why? Because it&rsquo;s the
only way you can see it from a private mind&mdash;from a mind that is
functioning, it thinks, entirely on its own.

The reason for remembering to say, &ldquo;Mother, may I?,&rdquo; the
reason for remembering to say, &ldquo;Should I do this now, shall we do
this together?&rdquo; is to consistently break the conscious awareness
of aloneness&mdash;of independence. The purpose of it is not to insult
you but to cause you to be in a state of mind which is an invitation to
be doing something together with Someone else.

Now, we ended up last week referring to the Holy Spirit as your
Redeemer: That which is nothing more than your right Mind is the
Redeemer of the private little you that you think you are, because when
you let your right Mind back in, when you let it register with you, your
sanity returns to you.

We read:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Attempt to teach Him not. YOU are the learner.
</div>

See, you&rsquo;ve got to realize your position&mdash;your
function&mdash;your role:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
YOU are the learner; He the teacher.
</div>

See, right there, that&rsquo;s insulting. You grew up, you finished
school, you went out into the world and you&rsquo;ve succeeded to one
degree or another. And now, you&rsquo;re to be the learner? And the Holy
Spirit is to be the Teacher? And because it&rsquo;s the Holy Spirit,
it&rsquo;s some ultimate teacher that you might think twice about
disregarding? How insulating&mdash;that&rsquo;s a backward step.
That&rsquo;s losing your independence that you worked so hard to
achieve.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
YOU are the learner;
</div>

&hellip; nevertheless &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He the Teacher. Do not confuse your role with His, for this will never
bring peace to anyone. Offer your empathy to Him&hellip;
</div>

Let the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s perspective mean more to you than your
present perspective. And I want to embellish this a little bit. When
you are interested in experiencing the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s perspective,
that perspective is not an intellectual perspective. It&rsquo;s not a
lot of words pulled together in an explanation that makes sense. The
Holy Spirit&rsquo;s perspective does know the truth, does involve the
truth but it also involves soul. It also involves Principle, it also
involves Love: Meanings of great depth and great significance which,
when you let them in, when you let the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s perspective
in, which is ultimately your true perspective, it&rsquo;s not just a
mental intellectual experience, it&rsquo;s a heart experience,
it&rsquo;s a soul experience. It is a God experience&mdash;impactful, if
you will: Significantly meaningful.

So this is the perspective that you are leaning into&mdash;that
you&rsquo;re inviting&mdash;that you&rsquo;re willing to defer to. And
I&rsquo;ll tell you something: If your perspective doesn&rsquo;t involve
any of those things I just mentioned, then it would be extremely
interesting and meaningful to try something new, like practicing the
holy instant.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Offer your empathy to Him&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; offer your interest to know the truth of Him, to feel the Love
of Him, to have no other mind, in so many words, than the Mind that is
creating the Universe.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Offer your empathy to Him, for it is HIS perception and HIS strength
that you would share.
</div>

Now I know that&rsquo;s not your habit. That&rsquo;s not been your
life-long habit or even perhaps, an hour&rsquo;s worth of habit,
consistently. But that&rsquo;s what this is all about. That&rsquo;s what
abandoning the orphanage is all about. It&rsquo;s about rejoining with
your Source as a full conscious experience.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Offer your empathy to Him, for it is HIS perception and HIS strength
that you would share.
</div>

You&rsquo;ve got to be willing to abandon wanting to share your
perspective because you want to have and you deserve to have a fuller
experience of Reality than you&rsquo;re having.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And let Him offer you His strength and His perception&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; to be shared through you.
</div>

You see, you&rsquo;re not only going to listen, you&rsquo;re not only
going to desire to know the truth of the Holy Spirit, you&rsquo;re going
to desire to know it so that you may share It, instead of your pet
theories, and instead of your best reasonings.

Like we said last week, if any of this is of value, let it change you.

Now, I want to refer once again to something I shared a few weeks ago
from the Course:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is another advantage, -- and a very important one, -- in referring
decisions to the Holy Spirit with increasing frequency.
</div>

That means availing yourself of the holy instant with increasing
frequency.

Hopefully, every time an opportunity for action comes up and you say,
&ldquo;Mother, may I? Father, may I? Holy Spirit, will you be with me
while I do this? Will you let me know if I shouldn&rsquo;t be doing it,
or if I should be doing it differently? I want to know what is
appropriate and I don&rsquo;t want to lean unto my own understanding. I
want to know of You. Why? Not because I&rsquo;m unimportant, but because
I don&rsquo;t want my perceptions to be distorted by an insistence on my
part to behave as though I am all alone and so that I turn a deaf ear to
the Source of my enlightenment and of my good. I want to experience my
wholeness again instead of my tiny privateness. That&rsquo;s why.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Perhaps you have not thought of this aspect but its centrality is
obvious.
</div>

&hellip; and here it is:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To follow the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s guidance is to let yourself be
absolved of guilt.
</div>

Why? Why would that be? Because the only thing that introduces guilt
into the mix is your insistence upon trying to do things independently
which constitutes a denial of your Source&mdash;a blocking out of That
which is your Cause&mdash;That which is your reason for Being, not your
reason in your mind, but the divine Reason for your existence is that
God is Being you, right now &hellip; right now &hellip; right now
&hellip; and nothing else ever is.

When you&rsquo;re willing to make that joining, you&rsquo;ve abandoned
the position of independence. And in the abandonment of independence,
guilt and fear disappear. It&rsquo;s that simple &hellip; it&rsquo;s
that simple &hellip; it&rsquo;s that simple!

This book, A Course In Miracles, is a big book, thousands of words, many
complex ideas expressed. But every single one of those complex ideas and
explanations leads to one thing: You abandoning your independence. Your
participating in the holy instant.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To follow the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s guidance&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; to follow the Guidance of That which is nothing more than your
right Mind&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is to let yourself be absolved of guilt. It is the essence of
the Atonement. It is the core of the curriculum.
</div>

In other words, it&rsquo;s the bottom line of what all of this learning
is about that we&rsquo;re engaging in.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The imagined usurping of functions not your own &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in other words, you&rsquo;re taking on functions that
aren&rsquo;t yours, your imagining that you have taken on functions that
aren&rsquo;t yours &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is the basis of fear. The whole world you see &hellip;

The whole world you see reflects the illusion you have done
so&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; it reflects the fact that you think you&rsquo;ve done
that&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; making fear inevitable. To return the function to the One to
Whom it belongs&hellip;
</div>

 &hellip; which is the Holy Spirit&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is thus the escape from fear. And it is this that lets the
memory of love return to you.
</div>

Oh-h, that&rsquo;s no small thing, is it! . . the return of the memory
of Love. Something that you have not been able to feel fully ever since
fear took form and held its ground, you might say, as you persisted in
trying to behave as though you were an independent entity in your own
right.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Do not, then, think that following the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s guidance is
necessary merely because of your own inadequacies.
</div>

You know, think not that the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s Guidance is helpful for
&ldquo;poor little independent you&rdquo; to get a better toe-hold in
his independent world and manage things better and become more
successful.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Do not then think that following the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s guidance is
necessary merely because of your own inadequacies.
</div>

It is the way out of hell for you. It&rsquo;s the way out of the
experience of inadequacies. It&rsquo;s the way out of having to find
ways to compensate for inadequacies, without ever becoming actually
adequate.

The practice of &ldquo;Mother, May I?&rdquo; all through your day, in
effect, your turning to the Father, or your turning to the Holy Spirit,
or your turning to me, or your turning to your Guide, that practice
persistently engaged in, causes you to experience being with Something
other than yourself. It constitutes a willingness to not be the grand
one in his own right and the one who consequently finds his life full of
suffering because he&rsquo;s trying to be something it&rsquo;s
impossible for him to be. You see?

If this is valuable, let it change you. Let it bring you out of hell.
Let it bring you into a daily experience where you feel the fact that
you haven&rsquo;t been alone for a moment, and where you feel the
support of that One who&rsquo;s joined with you and so that you
experience a transformation of your mind which causes you to see the
Kingdom of Heaven more like the Kingdom of Heaven, than the material
world and universe that you had been defining it as.

Now, going into the Book &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The meaning of love is lost in any relationship which looks to weakness
and hopes to find love there.
</div>

And remember, last week we determined that weakness is the description
of the place from which you do everything when you are claiming to be an
orphan and proud of it! Or, even that you&rsquo;re claiming to be an
orphan and you&rsquo;re miserable, but you have no other choice.
That&rsquo;s the place of weakness because you&rsquo;re like a toaster
that isn&rsquo;t plugged into the wall, or a lamp that isn&rsquo;t
plugged into the wall. There&rsquo;s no means of turning you on.
There&rsquo;s no means of your function being fulfilled. The lamp just
can&rsquo;t shine without joining with Something else. And neither can
you.

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The meaning of love is lost in any relationship which looks to weakness
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in other words, any relationship which is based upon your
interpreting everything about it from a premise that says you&rsquo;re
independent and on your own and ultimately, that you&rsquo;re just a
result of a physical process called, &ldquo;evolution&rdquo; and
there&rsquo;s nothing divine about you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The meaning of love is lost in any relationship which looks to weakness,
and hopes to find love there. The power of love, which IS its meaning,
lies in the strength of God, which hovers over it and blesses it
silently by enveloping it in healing wings.
</div>

You see, that&rsquo;s what&rsquo;s missing when you do anything on your
own. When you try to be &ldquo;loving&rdquo; all by yourself as the
ultimate development of evolution, an organism called, &ldquo;man&rdquo;
the most complex of all organisms&mdash;the height, crowning height of
evolution. But everything you do from there is minus the strength of
God because the strength of God doesn&rsquo;t hover over it and
doesn&rsquo;t bless it silently by enveloping it in healing wings.

Now, I&rsquo;m going to clarify a little bit: The strength of God hovers
over you always and blesses you silently all the time. But I promise
you, that when God is no part of your awareness, and when your behavior
arises out of an absolute sense of independence, the reality of
God&rsquo;s Love and its blessing is invisible to you and the point is,
it&rsquo;s not supposed to be. You&rsquo;re supposed to be feeling it
every moment.

You want to experience the fact that the Meaning of love is its power,
and its power &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; lies in the strength of the Presence of God which hovers over
it and blesses it silently by enveloping it in healing wings. LET this
be, and do not try to substitute YOUR &ldquo;miracle&rdquo; for this.
</div>

See, it&rsquo;s &ldquo;Mother, may I ?&hellip; Father, may I? &hellip;
Father, will you share with me what I need to do? &hellip; Holy Spirit,
will you reveal to me what is appropriate here in the context of God
Being all there is? I don&rsquo;t want even the best thing I can
imagine, I don&rsquo;t want my miracle, I don&rsquo;t want what I think
what the miracle ought to be, because I don&rsquo;t have the whole
picture. I don&rsquo;t know enough to know what would constitute a
miracle. Please fill me in. Please fill me up.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
We once said that if a brother asks a foolish thing of you to do it. But
be certain that this does not mean to do a foolish thing that would hurt
either him or you, for what would hurt one will hurt the other. Foolish
requests are foolish for the simple reason that they conflict, because
they contain an element of specialness.
</div>

Now, another part of the problem here is that if you respond to the
request to do something foolish as an orphan, all by your competent
little self, well, the strength of God is missing and you&rsquo;re going
to miss the mark. Why? Because you didn&rsquo;t stop first and say,
&ldquo;Father, may I?&rdquo; You didn&rsquo;t stop first and say,
&ldquo;What is the appropriate response to this foolish request?&rdquo;
You see?

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Only the Holy Spirit recognizes foolish needs as well as real ones. And
He will teach you how to meet both without losing either.
</div>

In either case, you won&rsquo;t lose the opportunity to be the Presence
of That which fulfills purpose and blesses everyone.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
YOU will attempt to do this only in secrecy.
</div>

What does that mean? It means that your gonna say, &ldquo;Father,
I&rsquo;d rather do it my way&rdquo; and then you&rsquo;re gonna come
off and you&rsquo;re gonna pretend that you have become invisible to God
and in this little place that you&rsquo;ve created for yourself of
independence, you&rsquo;re gonna do something in secret and what
you&rsquo;re gonna do in secret is help all these other little orphans
who are, in their little secret places, being secretive. You see?

It&rsquo;s like a fetus without an umbilical cord. Right now,
you&rsquo;re all like fetuses without umbilical cords. How long are you
going to last? You can&rsquo;t continue to deny your nourishment, you
can&rsquo;t continue to deny your Birthright and stand in a place where
you&rsquo;re blocking it&rsquo;s receipt even though it&rsquo;s being
given to you &hellip; given to you &hellip; given to you &hellip;
eternally.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
YOU will attempt &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; as an orphan &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; to do this only in secrecy &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; to do everything in secrecy.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And you will think that, by meeting the needs of one you do not
jeopardize another because you keep them separate, and secret from each
other.
</div>

So you have this little special relationship with this other little
secretive guy over here &hellip; and you think that because you&rsquo;re
doing it secretively with him, and secretly away from the Father and
secretly with Him but secretly away from all your other Brothers, and
the Father, that it&rsquo;s of no consequence to anyone and it may well,
you hope, cause this one you&rsquo;re helping secretly with your own
private skill, to become a friend&mdash;somebody who likes
you&mdash;somebody who will honor you, someone who will tell you
you&rsquo;re real and that you are meaningful. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
That is not the way, for it leads not to light and truth.
</div>

You see, what you do in your imagination secretly with a Brother, is not
done in private and all of the Brotherhood feels it. And so, because you
don&rsquo;t realize the unity of the whole of the Brotherhood, you lose
in the process even if your secretive Brother likes you for what
you&rsquo;re doing. And you lose the experience of your Brotherhood with
everyone else and everyone else loses their experience of their
Brotherhood with you and all of the, I&rsquo;m going to say, elegant
manifestations of love that you&rsquo;re able to bring forth.

So everyone loses. Absolutely everyone loses.

But, (it doesn&rsquo;t say &ldquo;but&rdquo; here, I&rsquo;m saying,
&ldquo;but&rdquo;) Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
No needs will long be left unmet if you leave them all to Him Whose
FUNCTION is to meet them.
</div>

&ldquo;Mother, may I? May I do it now? Is now the time to do it? Is this
the thing to do? What is the thing to do? I want not to do anything
until I&rsquo;ve heard from you. I know that I will have to continue
doing the best I can until I hear you, but my new ongoing desire is for
You to tell me before I feel I must act, what is appropriate, so that
everyone is blessed because I&rsquo;m not doing it privately. I&rsquo;m
not doing it secretly. I&rsquo;m not doing it in the way that causes me
to be totally unconscious of the Kingdom of Heaven when I&rsquo;m right
in the middle of it.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
No needs will long be left unmet if you leave them all to Him Whose
FUNCTION is to meet them.
</div>

This is where the clarity is. That is His function and not yours.

I know that might seem, as I&rsquo;ve said before, harsh. That is His
function and not yours. &ldquo;What do you mean, I don&rsquo;t have any
function?&rdquo; Yes you do, but doing it by yourself is not your
function. And you won&rsquo;t find out what is your function until you
stop and you defer to Him Who knows, which you can dare to do with
integrity because I&rsquo;m telling you that He Who knows what to do is
nothing more than your right Mind. And therefore, to yield to it is to
yield to the integration of you in your totality.

But in order to have that experience, you&rsquo;ve got to be willing to
say, &ldquo;I, as I know myself at this moment, don&rsquo;t know for
sure. And I want to know. And so I&rsquo;m not going to look to myself
for the answer. I&rsquo;m not going to look to the poor little orphan,
who&rsquo;s done a pretty good job in this life. I&rsquo;m not going to
look to that for the answer. You see? &ldquo;Father, help break the
isolation, establish the union.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; leave them all to Him Whose FUNCTION is to meet them. That is
His function, and not yours. He will not meet them secretly&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you see the big difference? A little private entity does
things secretly. That which is the Son or Daughter of God does things
wholly, all inclusively, and experiences the unity of the whole.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; for He would share everything you give through Him. And that is
WHY He gives it. What you give through Him is for the whole Sonship, NOT
for part of it.
</div>

When you say, &ldquo;Holy Spirit, what do I need to know here?&rdquo;
And what you need to know is revealed to you, and you know how to behave
because you know what the truth is, and your behavior reflects the love
that is the Meaning of it and the Principle that is the nature of it,
and the Truth that is the essence of it. Absolutely everything and
everyone is blessed. Because your action is an uninhibited expression of
the Father&rsquo;s Will.

Wow &hellip; something to be hoped for and appreciated in every instant
that it happens during your days. And the thing is, that you need to be
willing to play this &ldquo;Mother, may I?&rdquo; game, spiritualized,
we&rsquo;ll say. So that everything you do, you ask for help from the
Father, or you ask for help from the Holy Spirit. You do the two-step,
you hesitate, and you say, &ldquo;Help!&rdquo; And you don&rsquo;t
immediately begin to try to figure things out for yourself. You say,
&ldquo;Help&rdquo; and you listen because you actually expect an answer
to come from someplace other than your imagination.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Leave Him His function, for He will fulfill it if you but ask Him to
enter your relationships, and bless them FOR you.
</div>

You see? This involves a shift in you. You&rsquo;ve got to let a
willingness to not be number one in your life, occur and make room for
that which actually is Number One. You could say, That of you which is
utterly sane and whole and complete. You&rsquo;ve got to make room for
It. And you&rsquo;ve got to make room for It to enter and bless your
relationships for you.

Now remember, I talked before about the fact that you&rsquo;re in
relationship with everything: You&rsquo;re in relationship with the
wall, the floor, the flowers, the birds, the trees. You walk down the
street and you enjoy them&mdash;you see them&mdash;you&rsquo;re in
relationship with them. You&rsquo;re in infinite relationships right
now.

The need is for you to bring the Holy Spirit into all of those
relationships. You need to be willing to say and mean it, &ldquo;I
don&rsquo;t really know what my relationship with the wall is. I have no
idea what a holy relationship with the wall might mean. I have no idea
what the holiness of the wall feels like. I have no experience of what
its divine Meaning is or what its function is. But I want to
know.&rdquo;

You might as well all be babies at this moment. Because you are in a
world that you know nothing of even though you think you know pretty
much a lot about it. But there is so much of what it divinely is and
what it divinely means and what aspects of you, all of these things are,
that&rsquo;s all there for you to be experiencing&mdash;for you to
discover.

But you&rsquo;re not going to discover it until you say, &ldquo;Father,
what does this mean? Father, what do I need to do now?&rdquo; To do the
two-step, to practice the holy instant. To let every moment of your day
be a moment in which you are actively feeling curious&mdash;actively
feeling a curiosity to know what of God is confronting you, what the
holiness of what you&rsquo;re seeing actually is.

Well, that&rsquo;s true prayer, right there. And to invite the
experience and be undefended against it significantly enough for it to
register with you, will constitute what the words, &ldquo;true
empathy&rdquo; mean.

True empathy is you in any given moment, abandoning your confidence that
you know what something is, so willingly and so humbly, that
there&rsquo;s simply is nothing present in you to resist or to block the
influx of the conscious awareness of truth and the conscious experience
of Love and all of the divine qualities of Being that will rush in and
fill you and transform you and lift you out of hell.

Again: If it&rsquo;s valuable, let it change you. Yes, I&rsquo;m getting
a little pushy. I am pushing for an experience. I&rsquo;m pushing you
out of your head. I&rsquo;m pushing you out of your intellect. I&rsquo;m
pushing you out of your privacy and your valuing of it. And I&rsquo;m
saying, &ldquo;let&rsquo;s get on with this, this week, tonight,
tomorrow!&rdquo;

Play &ldquo;Mother, may I?&rdquo; and if it&rsquo;s insulting, do it
anyway. Don&rsquo;t listen to your ego complain. It will complain, you
don&rsquo;t have to honor it. Let&rsquo;s get on with Waking Up.
Let&rsquo;s get on with Redemption. Let&rsquo;s get on with Atonement.

And let&rsquo;s make room for true enjoyment of Being, of Life.
Don&rsquo;t be so passive. Don&rsquo;t be so laid back in your
&ldquo;wonderful awareness of spiritual things.&rdquo; If they&rsquo;re
valuable, let them change you. And I would like for you to write that
down and put it on your refrigerator this week. To remind you that none
of this is to keep the status quo. If it&rsquo;s valuable, let it change
you.

Go through your day with an attitude of expectation of change and a
willingness to embrace it. That&rsquo;s one way to stop resisting it.
And I promise you the only reason you&rsquo;re not experiencing the
ultimate is because you&rsquo;re resisting it.

I love you. I love you all. And because all of this is meaningful, is
significant, I desire for you to let it change you. And I support the
changes that will occur.

Bless you.

[^1]: T16.1 True Empathy

