---
title: Jan 16, 2010
ref: "T16.2 The Magnitude of Holiness"
alink: "/acim/text/16/chap1602/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

A new section:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*The Magnitude of Holiness*[^1]
</div>

I will tell you, we may not get past the first or second sentence
tonight.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You still think holiness is difficult because you cannot see how it can
be extended to include everyone. And you have learned that it must
include everyone to be holy.
</div>

Well, you know, another thing that makes holiness difficult when
it&rsquo;s supposed to include everyone, is that you believe that to
engage in holiness is something you do alone. It&rsquo;s something
between you and the Father or between you and the Holy Spirit or between
you and Jesus or, at the least, between you and one other Brother or
Sister at a time.

Let me ask you this: How many of you have had the experience of being in
pursuit of your holiness and having life get in the way? How many of you
have had the experience of taking some quiet time with God or some quiet
time with the Holy Spirit, and the children come running in, boisterous,
demanding: &ldquo;We want this! We want that! Can we do this? Can we do
that?&rdquo; And because they are children and because they need your
care, you shift your attention, and perhaps you feel a little perturbed
at not being given the quiet time you need to contemplate the truth and
to be present with the Father.

Now, let&rsquo;s say that one of your children is lying is bed with a
low fever, not feeling well, not too happy. Your husband&rsquo;s home
from work expecting dinner. You&rsquo;re in the kitchen working away
getting it ready, and again, the other children are unusually
rambunctious, noisy and bothersome, making it difficult for you to
manage the cooking as well as prayerful contemplation of the healing of
the one that&rsquo;s lying in bed not feeling well. And you feel like:
&ldquo;It&rsquo;s just too much! It&rsquo;s just too much!&rdquo;

You see, the problem is, that it&rsquo;s not clear that holiness is to
be extended to everyone and it must be extended to everyone in order for
it to be holy. You see, the mistake has been made to think that the
pursuit of spirituality is private and not all-inclusive, not embracing,
that you need to pull in from everyone into a nice mental cave, if you
will, and in the aloneness of that cave which is excluding everyone else
for the moment, you pursue your spiritualization. That&rsquo;s the
mistake that&rsquo;s been made. That&rsquo;s the mistake that&rsquo;s
being uncovered so that it can be abandoned.

You know, learning about doing the two-step, learning about the holy
instant&mdash;where indeed you become still and you do join with the
Holy Spirit&mdash;the purpose of doing this is to allow Revelation. It
is to allow insight. It is to allow the Father&rsquo;s perspective, the
Holy Spirit&rsquo;s perspective to register with you so that you might
share it with a Brother, so that in the sharing of it with the Brother
it becomes yours as well.

As I&rsquo;ve said before, that&rsquo;s as simple as it gets.

So, there&rsquo;s no way for this to be private. There&rsquo;s no way
for you to be uninvolved. No way at all.

Now, you know, there&rsquo;s been an event in the world this last week
&hellip; devastating for those who were involved. How many of you have
let yourself be present with them? How many of you have let yourself be
conscious of the needs? And how many of you have tried to find a way
either prayerfully or tangibly, to help? Or, how many of you have read
the news that say, &ldquo;This country is no stranger to tragedy,&rdquo;
as though tragedy is the norm for everyone there and that they have
grown accustomed to it&mdash;almost as though it&rsquo;s their karma.

You know, if you&rsquo;ve heard that and if you have assumed that
they&rsquo;re having the experience they&rsquo;re having because of
their frame of mind&mdash;their beliefs that their behavior has caused
them to deserve it and that therefore, the correction of their problem
is a correction of their mind and therefore, it&rsquo;s that truth that
you need to be aware of to apply to them in your thought&mdash;if that
has happened, you have missed the point.

In the process of utilizing the two-step and the holy instant, you will
become a better, more meaningful Brother. You will become a greater
point of the evidence of fulfillment in the Brotherhood. And it will be
recognizable to your Brothers that they&rsquo;re loved.

Now, when I talked about the good Samaritan, he didn&rsquo;t pass by on
the other side of the road, he didn&rsquo;t judge and leave the poor
soul to &ldquo;correct his thought.&rdquo; No. Nor did he say,
&ldquo;God will take care of you&rdquo; with all faith, and then walk
on. Nor did he say, &ldquo;You need to do prayerful work for
healing.&rdquo; No. What did he do? He cleaned his wounds. He bound his
wounds. He picked him up and carried him. That&rsquo;s not very much of
a head-trip, is it. It&rsquo;s a Brother being even more brotherly. Do
you see what I&rsquo;m saying?

In a way, I am putting down my foot tonight and I&rsquo;m saying, as I
told Paul along time ago, &ldquo;Keep your feet on the ground and your
head not too far away.&rdquo; You say, &ldquo;Well, I really don&rsquo;t
want to give too much thought to the devastation there. I&rsquo;ve seen
a few of the pictures &hellip; it&rsquo;s awful!&rdquo; You know, out of
sight, out of mind.

You know, I&rsquo;m going to ask you a question. You appreciate knowing
people who have a broad life experience because their broad life
experience&mdash;and I mean humanly speaking&mdash;allows them to
recognize need and know how to address it in practical terms. And they
recognize it because they didn&rsquo;t ignore it somewhere along the
way. And when you meet someone else who has very little life experience,
you wouldn&rsquo;t want to be dependent upon them or needing to rely
upon them in an emergency.

Now, in order to be aware of your Brother&rsquo;s need, you&rsquo;ve got
to be willing to be present with them. And here, it might seem as though
I&rsquo;m contradicting myself regarding the term, empathy.

You know, it won&rsquo;t hurt you a bit &hellip; it won&rsquo;t hurt you
a bit when you hear of a Brother in need or a country in need or a city
in need, to allow yourself to be present in your mind with those kinds
of circumstances so that you might think about what it&rsquo;s like when
there&rsquo;s no electricity, when the stores can&rsquo;t function
because the cash register won&rsquo;t work, when all the perishable food
perishes and where fresh water isn&rsquo;t available and none of the
utilities work and none of the regularities of life occur anymore
&hellip; suddenly they&rsquo;re gone. What happens to you or anyone who
is used to a routine of some sort? It throws you out into the middle of
the sea, so to speak.

Now, if I say, &ldquo;Take some time to be present with a situation like
this,&rdquo; am I saying, have empathy for them in an unhelpful
non-Course In Miracles sense? No. I&rsquo;m saying, &ldquo;Use your
mind to approximate to the best of your ability an experience that you
may not have had, so that you might become aware through what experience
you have had of what might be needed, so that you might turn to the Holy
Spirit, so that you might stop and inquire of the Holy
Spirit&mdash;engage in the holy instant&mdash;to know what is needed
here. So that you might have enough presence of mind, relative to that
situation, to be able to realize that miracles are needed and in spite
of infrastructure having collapsed, in spite of no electricity, miracles
can occur and miracles will occur.

And no matter how devastating it has been, those who are left will
report back and share with their families miracles that happened,
experiences that evidenced to them the Presence of God, the presence of
good, right in the face of a situation that says, &ldquo;Good
evaporated, there is no reason to have faith.&rdquo; Just a simple
awareness that the Holy Spirit might share with you that here, where the
devastation is, is a hotbed of miracles. Just that realization may be
all that&rsquo;s necessary for the clarity that heals and transforms to
be further evidenced there where the problem is.

But you know what? I promise you, you won&rsquo;t have that kind of
realization if you don&rsquo;t let yourself abide with the need.

Oh I know, you want to be able to sit down and have your quiet time in
your comfortable chair with your Bible, or with your Course In Miracles
or with your holy book and have quiet time to contemplate the realities
of Being. But you know what? It isn&rsquo;t the words that you would use
as mantras in your mind that need to get your attention, it&rsquo;s the
everyday needs that need to be the mantra in your mind. And you need to
be willing to be present with them without letting them discourage you
or depress you, but rather be the clear call for a clear answer so that
you might turn your attention to the clear answer and be infilled with
it and share it&mdash;extend it!

I encourage every single one of you, and many of you think it might be
totally inappropriate for me to do this in this context, and I promise
you this is not Paul saying this, I encourage every one of you to find a
way to contribute even just one dollar. Do you know why? So that your
conscious presence of mind, your very Being becomes involved,
joins&mdash;the key word&mdash;joins in the meeting of need where there
is great need.

And you know what? I know there are those of you from all over the globe
listening and you know it doesn&rsquo;t matter where you&rsquo;re
listening from, it&rsquo;s part of your globe where the need is.
It&rsquo;s part of your Brotherhood that has the need. And it is an
opportunity for you to join consciously and conscientiously in undoing
tragedy, in being the Presence of Love that makes a difference&mdash;not
an intellectual difference, not an uninvolved difference&mdash;but one
that washes and cleans the wounds and puts the balm on and wraps it, you
know, get your hands dirty, be involved in the practical meeting of the
need while the love that motivates you to be practical registers with
the one in need and inspires that one in his Spirit and in his mind to
remember, there is a God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You still think holiness is difficult because you cannot see how it can
be extended to include everyone. And you have learned that it must
include everyone to be holy.
</div>

What will help break your ignorance about holiness will be involving
yourself where need exists&mdash;in the practical meeting of
need&mdash;while at the same time engaging in the holy instant where
radical idealism can become practical realism through you. Do you see
what I mean?

Keep your feet on the ground and your head not too far away.

Right here is the Kingdom of Heaven and right here is where the Kingdom
of Heaven needs to be uncovered. And where there is need, is where the
Kingdom of Heaven is covered up, but still there.

Yes, all of your Brothers and Sisters are spiritual ideas of God. They
are thoughts of God. They are the Presence of an Idea in God&rsquo;s
Mind. You are the Presence of an Idea in God&rsquo;s Mind. But
don&rsquo;t be so lofty in your interpretation of that, that you think
that human need is meaningless. The meeting of human need inspires the
only thing it can inspire, an awareness of God.

Do you want to inspire the awareness of God? Then let your attention
rest with the human need, so that the human need is what gives impetus
to your turning to the Holy Spirit in the holy instant and begin to
nurture the awareness that multiple demands coming from your world are
not in opposition to your holiness or your spiritual growth, but are
themselves the places where the Kingdom of Heaven awaits coming to view.
They are hotbeds of miracles.

You see, you all tend to be looking in the wrong place for miracles. And
you get mad at the circumstances where the hotbeds of miracles come to
your attention, because you think that&rsquo;s not where the opportunity
is, you think that&rsquo;s not where your attention is supposed to be,
because it&rsquo;s, um &hellip; it&rsquo;s just, too, too,
down-to-Earth.

Love &hellip; Love arises out of caring. Love arises out of caring and
caring, when you know &ldquo;the secret,&rdquo; causes you to turn to
the Holy Spirit and inquire what the truth is and then you shut up and
listen so that it might be revealed &hellip; register with you &hellip;
inspire you and allow you to extend it to your Brother. And in your
Brother&rsquo;s receipt of it you are blessed&mdash;both of you are
healed.

You see, it just doesn&rsquo;t work any longer to say, &ldquo;Well, if
he had handled himself better he wouldn&rsquo;t be in this mess. If he
had been thinking the right thoughts he wouldn&rsquo;t be having this
experience. It&rsquo;s his business to take care of, not mine.&rdquo;
There&rsquo;s no love in that, is there? Why? Because there&rsquo;s no
joining in that &hellip; there&rsquo;s no connection &hellip;
there&rsquo;s no caring enough to stand there where your Brother is
experiencing a dilemma and perhaps have enough life experience to
understand more than an intellectual theory, that he&rsquo;s just
getting what he deserved&mdash;where there&rsquo;s enough life
experience for you to recognize, while listening to the Holy Spirit,
what the flaw in the thinking might be that can be illuminated, so that
one can see it and can easily set it aside because the light bulb went
on. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Concern yourselves not with the extension of holiness, for the nature of
miracles you do not understand. Nor do you do them. It is their
extension, far beyond the limits you perceive, that demonstrates you did
not do them. Why should you worry how the miracle extends to all the
Sonship when you do not understand the miracle itself? One attribute is
no more difficult to understand than is the whole. If miracles are at
all, their attributes would HAVE to be miraculous, being part of them.
</div>

Might miracles not be the natural and inevitable result of caring enough
about your Brother to cut through your own intellectual crap that gives
you all the reasons you don&rsquo;t need to actually relate to your
Brother so that you can, in your Realness, address the need so that the
need is met. You see?

Love&rsquo;s gotta come out! And you know what? I&rsquo;ve said it
before in so many ways: Love is pretty meaningless where it&rsquo;s not
needed. &ldquo;Oh yes, I know, love is needed everywhere and Love is
everywhere&mdash;Love is omnipresent. Yes, I know that.&rdquo; But there
are places where it doesn&rsquo;t seem to be because to one degree or
another all of you are not seeing the Presence of God everywhere. And so
the Presence of Love needs to be shone like a Light, where it seems not
to be. It needs to be brought to the wound or the distress, not to
confirm it, but to address it so that it&rsquo;s healed.

Needs are the hotbeds of miracles. Needs are where miracles are
surfacing if they are not denounced or denied or discounted, if
they&rsquo;re looked at squarely. If they are looked at squarely, that
does not constitute false empathy &hellip; Oh, unless you agree with
what you see and if you commiserate with the one who is
suffering&mdash;now that&rsquo;s empathy. But to be clearly aware of the
need and to be clearly aware of the fact that the need is an illusion
that your Brother needs to come out from under and be free of,
that&rsquo;s not empathy. That&rsquo;s knowing the truth. You know: Ye
shall know the truth and the truth shall make you free.[^2]

Oh, if a Brother is in need, sometimes everyone gets a little
self-righteous. &ldquo;You know, I don&rsquo;t like to hang around
people who are always in need. Oh, you know &hellip; needy people
&hellip; oh, they can be a real bore. Wow &hellip;&rdquo; Or, they could
be a hotbed of a miracle!

You will never Wake up &hellip; the holy instant will never move you
suddenly into your Awakening if you think that needs are beneath you or
something you dare not look at, or the consideration of which has
nothing to do with A Course In Miracles or any other teaching.

Find your Love. That&rsquo;s what I&rsquo;m saying. Don&rsquo;t hide it.
Don&rsquo;t withhold it. And remember to value the evidence of need,
because need is where the miracle is going to occur. The uncovering of
wholeness is what the miracle will accomplish. Where wholeness is
already in place, no miracle will happen.

Am I scolding anyone? No. I&rsquo;m trying to make utterly clear where
Love is needed, what your Love is for, and why you practice the two-step
and the holy instant. There&rsquo;s no point in practicing it in a place
where it doesn&rsquo;t count.

Now, you could say that everything I&rsquo;ve shared is totally
self-serving because of what I&rsquo;m going to say next. It&rsquo;s
not! I have been teaching &hellip; I have been disclosing to you more
about the purpose and function of the holy instant and more about what
its practice means, so that no one offhandedly overlooks the very place
where the miracle awaits you.

Now, I must share once again that there is a need that the Foundation
has in order for Paul and Susan and Chris and Judy to do the work that
is done&mdash;to make these sharings possible. It cost money. It
requires support. There is need. When the need is not met, the
experience is not pleasant. And you could say the situation becomes a
hotbed for miracles.

And you could say, &ldquo;Well&hellip;&rdquo; like the Pharisee walking
by on the other side of the road, &ldquo;Well, if Paul had a better
sense of unlimited wholeness, there would be no need.&rdquo;
That&rsquo;s a convenient way to say, &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t want to be
involved. I don&rsquo;t need to be involved. Joining means nothing
here.&rdquo; But I promise you it does.

A short while back a call for help was put forth and much Love was
expressed, much joining occurred, much was shared. Thank you. It was
appreciated. It was put to work. Comfort was experienced. Love moved in
both directions. Please be willing to give some attention to Paul and
Susan and Chris and Judy.

The Foundation does not support Chris and Judy, but Chris is reimbursed
for the experience and excellence he brings to making these broadcasts
available, and the audio and the web site and the servers that the web
site is on.

Keep your feet on the ground and your perspective clear enough and
loving enough to keep alive what you love that&rsquo;s happening here,
so that it may continue to be extended without suffering for those who
are engaging in extending it.

I love you. I love you all. And I look forward to being with you next
time. And I thank you for listening.

[^1]: T16.2 The Magnitude of Holiness
[^2]: John 8:32

