---
title: Jan 30, 2010
ref: "T16.2 The Magnitude of Holiness"
alink: "/acim/text/16/chap1602/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

You know, every once in awhile it&rsquo;s necessary for me to refresh a
point &hellip; that point being: That you will not understand your way
into the Kingdom of Heaven. And to be even more pointed about it, you
cannot understand your way into the Kingdom of Heaven.

As I&rsquo;ve said, you will feel your way in.

Now the reason it&rsquo;s necessary to remind everyone of this is
because you are educated with the purpose in mind of understanding. Why?
Because understanding gives you control. Understanding, you think,
allows you to function in an orderly manner that has orderly results.
Because you believe that the universe functions according to orderly
laws, which when understood allow you to be a presence of power&mdash;a
presence of power that makes you safe. And if you are generous,
it&rsquo;s a presence of power that you can use to help others be safe.

As a result, you find a wonderful book like A Course In Miracles or many
other books&mdash;spiritual books&mdash;and you devour them for the
purpose of digesting what is being said so that you might learn and
therefore understand.

What does learning mean? It means that something has come to your
attention that was unknown to you before and you digest it, you embrace
it and you commit it to memory. That&rsquo;s really what it means. It
becomes a bit of information, which when added to other bits of
information, constitute an intelligent configuration of ideas that allow
you to function in the future dependably, intelligently, successfully
and beneficially.

Now, learning is a process that ends up with a result. The result is
called, &ldquo;What you have learned.&rdquo; And &ldquo;What you have
learned&rdquo; is a memory&mdash;is stored away for future use.

To the degree that you depend upon the learning, to the degree that you
live in the present based upon what you learned in the past, you are not
present in the moment you are in with innocent eyes. In other words,
with eyes capable of seeing the newness of Creation, of seeing what is
actually going on instead of the concept you have about what is going
on.

This section that we&rsquo;re beginning to read tonight is difficult to
understand because it&rsquo;s going to explain that you cannot
understand your way into the Kingdom of Heaven. It is going to
illuminate the fact that in order to understand, you have to abandon
understanding.

Now, what makes it more difficult, we could say, what makes it worse is
that it makes it very clear that you don&rsquo;t have a capacity to
understand and you must be willing to abandon the idea that you do. In
other words, you must arrive at a point where you understand that you
are incompetent. Not a pleasant thing to do. Not a thing one would dig
into. Definitely something one would avoid&mdash;distract themself from.

Now, until you are willing to acknowledge that you in your own right,
you as an orphan, as we have been speaking, have no capacity to
understand Reality, you have no capacity to grasp your Father&rsquo;s
Point of View&mdash;God&rsquo;s Point of View&mdash;because you have
abandoned it, avoided it, denied it and disowned it, that&rsquo;s what
causes you to be an orphan or to have an experience of orphanhood when
you are actually the holy Son of God.

Until you arrive at the humiliated place of acknowledging that you
don&rsquo;t know, you won&rsquo;t genuinely ask to Know the truth. Until
you arrive at the point where you&rsquo;re willing to consider the
possibility that you don&rsquo;t know and that you, as puny little you
can&rsquo;t know, not until you reach that point will a miracle occur.
Not until that point will the influx of the Father&rsquo;s Point of
View, the truth, enter in your mind and dawn on you. Not until that
point will your Sonship register with you. Not until that point will you
know that you belong, that you fit in, but not as an independent
separate entity.

Now, this section, which we actually started the last time we were
together, is entitled:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
THE MAGNITUDE OF HOLINESS[^1]
</div>

And I&rsquo;m going to start back at the beginning and I will do a lot
of reading tonight with perhaps not as much talk, at least the part
we&rsquo;ve discussed.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You still think holiness is difficult because you cannot see how it can
be extended to include everyone. And you have learned that it must
include everyone to be holy. Concern yourselves not with the extension
of holiness, for the nature of miracles you do not understand.
</div>

Now, that is not a criticism. That is a fact. You, as you presently
experience yourself, do not understand. You as the orphan, the
dissociated one, do not understand. But it&rsquo;s not a criticism.
It&rsquo;s a point to accept as though it is a constructive building
block toward an intelligent realization that will remind you of the
truth of you because you&rsquo;ve let the Father reveal your Mind to you
which is His Mind, in a manner that registers with you and that you can
&ldquo;understand,&rdquo; grasp the meaning of without misinterpreting
it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Concern yourselves not with the extension of holiness, for the nature of
miracles you do not understand. Nor do YOU do them. It is their
extension, far beyond the limits you perceive&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; from your present narrow-minded perspective &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; that demonstrates you did NOT do them &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; miracles. But you have done them. But the fact that they were
so much more extensive, so much more all-inclusive in incredible ways
that you would never have thought to pull together as part of the
&ldquo;miracle.&rdquo; That&rsquo;s what demonstrates you did not do
them.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Why should you worry how the miracle extends to all the Sonship when you
do not understand the miracle itself? One attribute is no more difficult
to understand than is the whole. If miracles ARE at all, their
attributes would HAVE to be miraculous, being part of them.
</div>

Miraculous. What does that mean? You might say it means,
surprising&mdash;magnificently surprising, not negatively surprising.

Now, there is a tendency to fragment and then to be concerned about the
truth of just a little part of the whole. Let&rsquo;s say that
you&rsquo;re confronted with a problem and you&rsquo;ve been listening
to me and you actually practice the two-step&mdash;you hesitate before
you act on your best spontaneous memorized judgments and you reach
beyond your memory banks and you ask, &ldquo;Father, what&rsquo;s the
truth here? Father, what needs to be known here?&rdquo; And then, as
you&rsquo;re listening quite openly, you get the feeling that the answer
is going to be far more inclusive than you thought and therefore,
probably not understandable.

&ldquo;Where should I take my wife out to dinner for our
anniversary?&rdquo; And as you begin to listen &hellip; wide open
&hellip; including the possibility of catching a plane and flying to
Paris to go to a special restaurant&mdash;I mean, that open. And as you
listen, you think, &ldquo;Uh-oh, she&rsquo;s been having a little
indigestion lately and so whoever&rsquo;s going to answer me, you might
better take that into consideration when you tell me where the
appropriate place is &hellip; Oh-h, and maybe, you know, it might mean
we have to get some new clothes for her if we&rsquo;re going to a really
nice place.&rdquo;

And you begin to fragment it. And the purpose is to pull the answer down
to a smaller and smaller size, embracing less and less because it will
be easier to understand the little part and by considering all the
little factors&mdash;all the piss-ant little factors&mdash;that you can,
rather than listening for the big answer, for the simple answer that the
Father knows fits and would bless and would be enjoyed and would make
for a wonderful loving anniversary. Instead of that, you try to take
care of all the little parts to make sure that they are right. Why? So
that your wife won&rsquo;t be disappointed with you when you say,
&ldquo;I would like to take you out to dinner at such-and-such a place
on our anniversary.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is a tendency to fragment, and then to be concerned about the
truth of just a little part of the whole.
</div>

The description I gave could be applied to many things. It&rsquo;s a
tendency that you have to not let in the whole. But guardedly let in the
little parts that will build up to the whole.

You know what? It&rsquo;s an exercise of control. It&rsquo;s still an
assertion of the tiny orphan sense of self. It isn&rsquo;t an
abandonment to the Father. It isn&rsquo;t really saying, &ldquo;Father,
what is the truth here?&rdquo; You say, &ldquo;What is the truth about
what she will like? What is the truth about what she won&rsquo;t
like?&rdquo; You see? Not like, you know, &ldquo;What is the wonderful
truth that we will enjoy beyond anything I could come up with as a
result of being careful &hellip; careful &hellip; careful &hellip;
careful?&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is a tendency to fragment, and then to be concerned about the
truth of just a little part of the whole. And this is but a way of
avoiding, or LOOKING AWAY from the whole, to what you think you might be
better able to understand. For this is but another way in which you
would still try to keep understanding to YOURSELF.
</div>

You see? You want to be the &ldquo;understand-er.&rdquo; You want to be
the one who has the understanding. You want to be the one who came up
with the understanding. You see? You want to keep it to yourself. You
want to keep it as a personal possession because then it becomes part of
your personal authority in being successful by the intelligent use of
your understanding&mdash;the intelligent use of your memory banks.

When you listen for the truth, the Father isn&rsquo;t going to give you
an intellectual process. The Father isn&rsquo;t going to give you a
string of words that express certain concepts that will be the answer to
that question for all time&mdash;forever permanently the answer.

You see, the Father&rsquo;s answer to everything is Love. I mean by
that, that the Movement of Love that the Father Is, has meaning. And the
meaning elicits words. It is as though the Movement of Love clothes
meaning with words. But the words aren&rsquo;t the point. It&rsquo;s the
Meaning that&rsquo;s the point. It&rsquo;s the Love that has been given
form at that point.

But I want you to understand that the Movement of Love is like a breeze
that moves through the hills and the valleys and graces the blades of
grass or the leaves on the trees or the boughs&mdash;the branches of the
trees&mdash;in different ways. It&rsquo;s the same Movement of Love with
different meanings, because the tweaking of a leaf is not the answer as
opposed to the bending of the grass being the answer, even though in
both cases it&rsquo;s the breeze&mdash;it&rsquo;s the Movement of Love.
You see?

I may be approaching this obliquely, but I must get past your intellect
subtly.

What I&rsquo;m talking about here has to do with the magnitude of
holiness and why you don&rsquo;t understand the magnitude of holiness.
It&rsquo;s because you&rsquo;re taking holiness as you might take
love&mdash;the Movement of Love&mdash;and you&rsquo;re taking the way
that Movement drapes itself in words so as to take the words as though
they are the point.

You take the word, and like the breeze moving through the hills and the
valleys, it&rsquo;s like the tweak of the leaf. You take the tweak of
the leaf as though that movement, that sharpness is the answer. And as a
result, you don&rsquo;t see that it&rsquo;s the same Meaning as the
bending of the grasses&mdash;the tall grasses. Because the bending of
the tall grasses isn&rsquo;t the point either. You see?

The minute you focus in on the tweaking of a leaf or the graceful
bending of a blade of grass, and you focus in on that, you lose the
magnitude. The magnitude of what? Of the breeze &hellip; of the Movement
that clothes its presence in all of these various, we&rsquo;re going to
say, effects. You see?

The minute you narrow it down to this or that, you&rsquo;ve lost the
magnitude. And therefore, you don&rsquo;t grasp the magnitude. And when
it&rsquo;s presented to you, you don&rsquo;t see it. Magnitude is
moving. And you say, &ldquo;Oh-h, it&rsquo;s a tweaking of a leaf. .
&rdquo; and somebody else says, &ldquo;Oh-h, it&rsquo;s the bending of a
blade of grass . .&rdquo; and you&rsquo;ve missed what&rsquo;s actually
happening.

Why? Because you tried to understand instead of feel.

Bear with me because this needs to be understood, [chuckle] it&rsquo;s
meaning needs to be grasped so that you will ultimately be willing to
abandon the gathering of and the memorizing of
&ldquo;understanding.&rdquo; You see?

You say, &ldquo;Oh-h, the Movement of Love is the tweaking of a leaf.
And now I know, whenever I see the tweaking of a leaf, it will be
Love.&rdquo; You see, &ldquo;Tweaking, that&rsquo;s the Love.&rdquo; No.
The Love is the Movement of Presence that moves kindly, that moves
infinitely and is touching everything in every hill and valley in all of
the vastness of space and all of the various environments, you might
say, of different planets.

Mind you, right now what&rsquo;s happening? Is it Paul speaking? Is it
Raj speaking through Paul? Or is it a Movement of Love that has
magnitude? Am I speaking to those of you who have tuned in and are
listening? Am I speaking to those of you who, at this moment, are
listening to a recording that you downloaded, and is that it? No. While
I&rsquo;m speaking at this very moment, I am speaking wholly. I mean by
that, that all of the Brotherhood is experiencing the Movement of Love
together with the specific intent of everything I&rsquo;m sharing. And
it is a joyous thing for all of Them to be experiencing.

Mind you, at the same time that all of the Brotherhood, everywhere
infinitely, is experiencing the Movement of Love that is specifically
identified as me speaking right now, they are also fully aware of all
the Movements of Love that everyone of the Brotherhood is engaged in at
this moment, infinitely.

So, those of you on your planet who didn&rsquo;t tune in tonight who
never heard of Raj, are blessed by and touched by the Movement&mdash;the
breeze&mdash;of the Movement of Love that I am being. There&rsquo;s the
magnitude. You do not have to understand how it happens. But you do need
to know it happens. And you do need to know that letting yourself be the
place that Love infills so that you can share it, is much greater than
you think. It has magnitude. It is omnipresent.

You may not understand how it works, but I am expressing it
intelligently enough for you to dare to experiment, for you to dare to
embrace and embody and we&rsquo;ll say, practice the two-step, practice
what I&rsquo;m talking about, so that you might, along with those you
are caring about, be blessed by a miracle&mdash;be blessed by healing.
And as a result, discover that indeed, miracles happen without your
understanding them from the orphan mind-set.

Now let&rsquo;s continue here:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
A better and FAR more helpful way to think of miracles is this:
{: .omit}

You do not understand them&hellip;
</div>

miracles &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; either in part OR whole. Yet you have DONE them. Therefore,
your understanding cannot be necessary. Yet it is still impossible to
accomplish what you do not understand. And so there must be something in
you that DOES understand.
</div>

Not as complicated as it sounds. The something in you that does
understand is the Holy Spirit. It&rsquo;s that which is nothing more
than your right Mind, which you are currently ignoring in its entirety
in favor of having this tiny private selfhood that is a small
circumscribed part of the totality of you. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; it is still impossible to accomplish what you do not
understand. And so there must be something in you that DOES understand.
</div>

You see, the difference though is, that the orphan you&mdash;the orphan
that you pretend to be&mdash;wants to be the creator of a miracle. And
you want to be the creator of a miracle by having an understanding of
how things work&mdash;a concept that you can endorse by your will, and
hold to, and cause to happen. But a miracle only happens when that sense
of yourself that tries to accomplish its sense of what a miracle ought
to be is set aside&mdash;is abandoned temporarily&mdash;and you are
willing to reach beyond this sense of self that you have of yourself and
you ask for that which has greater knowledge than you to reveal it to
you.

Now you can ask the Father, but the Father has already answered by
providing the Holy Spirit&mdash;which is nothing more than your right
Mind. And the Father provided it before you decided to be an orphan.
You&rsquo;re not going to get something that you never had
before, called your right Mind, you&rsquo;re simply going to be
re-minded, you&rsquo;re going to be re-introduced to your Mind, to your
Wholeness.

And when you do that, miracles will occur. But you won&rsquo;t ask,
&ldquo;How did I do that?&rdquo; You will glory in the miracle. You will
rejoice along with those who shared in it. And you will not say,
&ldquo;I&rsquo;d better find out how I did that so I can do it
again,&rdquo; you know, and therefore, create a little bit of knowledge,
a little bit of learning that gets stored away for future use. Because
you see, the breeze blows, and at this moment the leaf moves that way
and the next movement, perhaps it bends like the long blade of grass.
You see?

And so, you want to know the truth now, now, now, now. And so
you&rsquo;re going to have to listen, listen, listen, listen, with
innocence, innocence, innocence, innocence.

The moment you say, &ldquo;I&rsquo;m going to pull this from my memory
and use it as the appropriate response now,&rdquo; you&rsquo;ve lost
innocence. Your mind is not clear, it&rsquo;s being cluttered by things
you&rsquo;ve collected and the things you&rsquo;ve collected are like
dust on a window that inhibit your seeing clearly, the
view&mdash;what&rsquo;s really going on.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To you the miracle CANNOT seem natural because what you have done to
hurt your minds has made them so UNNATURAL that they do not remember
what is natural to them.
</div>

You see? You become very committed to the gathering of information and
knowledge and understanding and storing it away as though what was the
answer yesterday is the answer today &hellip; is the answer now, is the
answer now, is the answer now. No. The answer is an actual connectedness
with now, which is the Movement of Creation as God is being it
now&mdash;forever fresh.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And when you are TOLD about it, you cannot understand it.
</div>

Now, I know that right now what I&rsquo;m saying is not understandable
to some of you. &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t understand it. It doesn&rsquo;t
make sense.&rdquo; Okay &hellip; okay, that&rsquo;s good. But
don&rsquo;t feel bad about it. Let yourself be in that &ldquo;not
knowing place.&rdquo; Because in that not knowing place that you accept
for yourself&mdash;instead of fuss about&mdash;you will become
susceptible to insight, you will become susceptible to revelation, you
will become susceptible to inspiration. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The recognition of the part as whole, and of the whole in every part, is
PERFECTLY natural. For it is the way God thinks, and what is natural to
Him is natural to you.

The recognition of the part as whole, and of the whole in
every part&hellip;
</div>

You can understand that in this way: In terms of holograms, because you
can have a picture &hellip; a holographic picture, where you can see
everything in three-dimensional relief and you&rsquo;re looking at, like
a film strip&mdash;a large acetate picture. Now, if you take and cut the
corner out of that picture and look at it, you&rsquo;ll see everything
that&rsquo;s in the large picture&mdash;in the large hologram, in this
little tiny part that you just cut out away from the hologram&mdash;the
whole is in the part and the part is the whole. You can understand that
experientially, but maybe not intellectually.

The point is this: You&rsquo;re not alone. The point is, that if
you&rsquo;re part of the whole, the whole is in you and you are in the
whole and that is why, when you know the truth, when you allow the
Movement of Love&mdash;the breeze&mdash;to move through you and you
rejoice in it, all of the Brotherhood rejoices.

And I&rsquo;ll tell you something else, every leaf, every tree, every
rabbit, every porcupine, every thing, even the rocks rejoice.
[chuckling] I&rsquo;ll tell you, the rocks haven&rsquo;t forgotten the
Movement of Love. The rocks haven&rsquo;t forgotten the magnitude of the
holiness of All.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Wholly natural perception would show you instantly that order of
difficulty in miracles is quite impossible, for it involves a
contradiction of what miracles mean. And if you could understand their
meaning, their attributes could hardly cause you perplexity.
</div>

I invited everyone the last time we spoke, to participate in an act of
unity in the expression of help for those in Haiti. I invited you to be
part of the addressing of a situation through an actual act of giving
that you might otherwise have felt unable to be an effective contributor
to. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s too overwhelming. What can I do&mdash;hundreds of
thousands of people homeless, hundreds of thousands of people suffering
anguish, loss, lack of peace, fear for having no food, fear for after
shocks &hellip; fear &hellip; fear &hellip; fear.&rdquo;

What can you do? Well, as an orphan, nothing. And as long as you see
yourself as an orphan, not only will you think you can do nothing, you
will be inclined to neglect to do what you could actually do. And
that&rsquo;s missing the whole point.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
THE MAGNITUDE OF HOLINESS
</div>

The Magnitude Of Holiness&mdash;I&rsquo;m going to say the power of the
wholeness of Creation&mdash;will only be illuminated when Love is
expressed, when extension is made. And so the call is for every one of
you to get in that frame of mind, I&rsquo;m going to say, where you feel
the rightness of making extension, no matter how incompetent you feel.

The situation has been so grave and so great that not only the people in
Haiti feel powerless, but anyone else who cares feels powerless. But
I&rsquo;m going to tell you something: That feeling of powerlessness is
the threshold of a miracle because the minute you say, &ldquo;I do not
have the means as a puny little orphan to help in anyway,&rdquo; and you
believe it and you abide with it rather than kicking against the pricks
and fussing about it and being upset about it and jumbling up your mind
with anger, you will find in that awful sense of incapacity, which feels
like humiliation, that you&rsquo;re actually in a state of humility. And
in that state of humility the Father can act, the miracle can happen,
the sudden shift of perception can occur, because you in your accepted
incapacity, are bringing no force of personal will into play.

This is very important and it has to do with the magnitude of holiness.
Because you will not experience the magnitude of holiness until you
abandon, and I will say, the inconsequentiality of tininess, even though
to you tininess is extremely stimulating and gives you the gumption to
get bigger.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You HAVE done miracles, but it is quite apparent that you have not done
them alone. You have succeeded whenever you have reached another mind
and JOINED with it.
</div>

It&rsquo;s happened whenever you cared enough to connect without
bringing your will into play for whatever reason. It&rsquo;s usually
accidental. And that&rsquo;s just fine.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When two minds join as one and share one idea equally, the first link in
the awareness of the Sonship as one has been made.
</div>

But, please understand, this is not talking about two minds joining as
one and sharing an idea that you came up with or an idea that the other
fellow came up with independently. It&rsquo;s talking about sharing an
idea together that was insightful, that was what was revealed as a
result of engaging in the two-step and saying, &ldquo;Father, what is
the truth here?&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When two minds join as one and share one idea equally, the first link in
the awareness of the Sonship as one has been made.
</div>

You see? Two little orphans joining with each other doesn&rsquo;t bring
about a link in the awareness of the Oneness of the Sonship. It&rsquo;s
just a partnership of two lonely little orphans. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you have made this joining, as the Holy Spirit bids you&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; because you&rsquo;ve stopped, you&rsquo;ve hesitated,
you&rsquo;ve done the two-step, and you&rsquo;ve asked, &ldquo;What is
the truth here?&rdquo; &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
and have offered it to Him &hellip;
</div>

the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
to use as He knows how&hellip;
</div>

listen to this &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
His &hellip;
</div>

the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
natural perception of your gift enables HIM enables
HIM to understand it&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; not you, it enables the Holy Spirit to understand it because
it&rsquo;s been a gift without strings from you&mdash;nothing to
interfere.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
His natural perception of your gift enables HIM to understand it, and
YOU to use His understanding on your behalf.
</div>

Do you see that all the way through this you never arrive at a point
where you&rsquo;ve got a little bit of understanding that gives you a
little bit of an edge in the future? No. Right up to this point:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
His natural perception of your gift enables HIM to understand it, and
YOU to use His understanding on your behalf.
</div>

Sort of puts you in second place, doesn&rsquo;t it? You can carry out
His orders. You can carry out His clarity. Yes, that&rsquo;s the good
news. That&rsquo;s the point. The point is to Know the truth. The point
is to not be distracted by the twitch of the leaf or the graceful
bending of the grass, but to experience the Movement of Love&mdash;the
breeze&mdash;and know that that&rsquo;s the Movement of God&mdash;the
Presence of God. That&rsquo;s the point.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is impossible to convince you of the reality of what has clearly BEEN
accomplished through your willingness &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; not through any skill you have, not through any
power&mdash;personal, private power you exercised&mdash;but that
it&rsquo;s clearly been accomplished only through your willingness.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is impossible to convince you of the reality of what has clearly BEEN
accomplished through your willingness as long as you believe that you
must understand it, or else it is not real.
</div>

You see? This is so insulting to the ego. You don&rsquo;t have to
understand anything in order for it to be real. What is real is real
whether you understand it or not.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You think your lack of understanding is a LOSS to you, and so you are
unwilling to believe that what has happened is true.
</div>

You&rsquo;re unwilling to believe that the miracle that happened is
true. Why? Because you haven&rsquo;t been able to glean from it the fact
that will constitute a little bit of understanding that you can file
away for future use, in order to have control and power and stability in
your private little selfhood and in the conflicted world you see because
of your private stance, even though it&rsquo;s the Kingdom of Heaven,
unconflicted.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You think your lack of understanding is a LOSS to you, and so you are
unwilling to believe that what has happened is true.
</div>

Oh, maybe you think it&rsquo;s real, but it was a fluke. And you
can&rsquo;t afford to go through life waiting for flukes to happen.
[Laughing] You need to be able to take positive control through the use
of learning. And when you say that, and you identify a miracle as a
fluke &hellip; oh wow, you missed the understanding that&rsquo;s there
to be had, which was, that understanding has nothing to do with it. And
the miraculous&mdash;the wonderful, glorious miraculous&mdash;that
it&rsquo;s your pleasure to be experiencing, is available to you and
your understanding not only has nothing to do with it, you need to stop
bringing the intent to understand into the picture.

Again:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You think your lack of understanding is a LOSS to you, and so you are
unwilling to believe that what has happened is true. But can you REALLY
believe that all that has happened, even though you do NOT understand
it, has NOT happened?
</div>

It&rsquo;s a good question.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet this is your position.
</div>

You claim it all the time. You say, &ldquo;It didn&rsquo;t
happen.&rdquo; It didn&rsquo;t happen in the significant way that
I&rsquo;m talking about. &ldquo;Oh, it was significant. The
transformational healing was incredible, but nothing dependable. At the
moment it&rsquo;s easy for me to grasp that there may be a God. But you
know what, it also could have just been the turn of events, fate could
have been just stacked that way in this instant.&rdquo;

And you undermine and undo the miracle. And you keep yourself searching
for more understandings that you can tuck away to use in the future.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You would have perfect faith in the Holy Spirit, and in the effects of
His teaching, if you were not afraid to ACKNOWLEDGE what He taught you.
</div>

You see? Oh, I know, you&rsquo;re willing &hellip; you think
you&rsquo;re willing to acknowledge what He would teach to you. But you
can&rsquo;t really dare to honor it fully, because if you&rsquo;re going
to take what He teaches you, you&rsquo;re going to have to abandon what
you&rsquo;ve learned and what you&rsquo;ve taught yourself. And
that&rsquo;s going to put you in a position of second-class-citizen who
exercises no competence of his own. And that&rsquo;s awful. That&rsquo;s
unacceptable.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You would have perfect faith in the Holy Spirit, and in the effects of
His teaching, if you were not afraid to ACKNOWLEDGE what He taught you.
For this acknowledgement means that what has happened you do not
understand, but that you are willing to accept it BECAUSE it has
happened.
</div>

You see? You can accept the tweaking of the leaf and the graceful
bending of the long grasses, not as answers in themselves, not as
ultimate things in themselves, but as indicators of the presence of the
Movement of the breeze&mdash;as evidence of the Movement of Love because
the evidence is there&mdash;which means, because there is a God.

It is so important for you to understand that studying this Course or
any other system of religious education is not for the purpose of
acquiring knowledge to be stored away as permanent answers. It&rsquo;s
to be used to abandon your committed practice of gathering information
so that you might become respectable and all of the other good things an
orphan tries to become. And be willing instead to say, &ldquo;Father,
what&rsquo;s the truth here? Father, help me to feel the Movement of
Love that looks like this. Because I know that the Movement of Love is
the Meaning, is the Presence of You Being Creation.

&ldquo;I am willing to abandon my competence as a puny little orphan so
that I might come into a clear awareness of myself as the holy Son of
God, whose holiness is of great magnitude that embraces and includes
everything in All of Creation. I want to have that experience of what I
truly already am. And I want to have that instead of what I think I
might be able to create as an identity for myself in the absence of
being the holy Son of God and in the absence of being holy at all and
therefore, in the mental frame of mind in which magnitude cannot be
experienced and will not exist because of my infatuation with
inconsequential tininess.&rdquo;

I love you all. And I look forward to being with you next time.

And now you know that that was a universal sharing of appreciation and
love. Absolutely everything in the universe, because of the magnitude of
holiness, was embraced by that expression of Love and felt it whether
some parts of that universe were willing to acknowledge and accept it or
not. And your Presence, your very Being in this very moment, your
existing in this moment is a universal event &hellip; as is mine.


[^1]: T16.2 The Magnitude of Holiness

