---
title: Mar 6, 2010
ref: "T16.3 The Reward of Teaching"
alink: "/acim/text/16/chap1603/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

We&rsquo;re starting a new section entitled:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*The Reward of Teaching*[^1]
</div>

And in the first edition and the second edition, the wording was changed
and I feel it&rsquo;s important to share the difference. It reads:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
We have already learned that everyone teaches and teaches all the time.
You may have taught well, and yet you may not have learned how to accept
the comfort of your teaching.
</div>

Now, when I was dictating this to Helen, I did not say, &ldquo;We have
already learned that everyone teaches and teaches all the time.&rdquo;
And I did not say, &ldquo;You may have taught well.&rdquo;

Here&rsquo;s what I said:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have taught well, and yet you have not learned how to ACCEPT the
comfort of your teaching.
</div>

Now I shared this because as I said it to Helen, I was speaking directly
to her about her. And it was an abrupt shift in context. In the first
edition, a segway was given:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
We have already learned that everyone teaches and teaches all the time.
You may have taught well, and yet you may not have learned how to accept
the comfort of your teaching.
</div>

Now, that reads well for subsequent readers of the Course but I want it
to remain as pointed as it is in the Sparkly Book, the way I said it to
Helen:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have taught well, and yet you have not learned how to ACCEPT the
comfort of your teaching.
</div>

Now, I&rsquo;m going to be very frank: Anyone who has studied the
Course, and anyone who has been in any way involved in teaching it or
sharing it with others, with explanation, this statement would apply to
you:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have taught well, and yet you have not learned how to ACCEPT the
comfort of your teaching.
</div>

Now the reason this is true&mdash;and its part of the meat and potatoes
of this whole section we&rsquo;re reading&mdash;the reason I say that is
because if you have not joined with the Holy Spirit and shifted your
allegiance to the Holy Spirit so that you are in communion with &hellip;
so completely in communion with the Holy Spirit, so completely that
you&rsquo;re no longer holding yourself apart as someone leaning into or
depending upon the Holy Spirit, then you still have the comfort of what
you&rsquo;ve been teaching to be embodied, embraced, and to have moved
you into a new experience of your identity&mdash;no longer an orphan,
period.

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have taught well, and yet you have not learned how to ACCEPT the
comfort of your teaching.
</div>

You haven&rsquo;t embraced it completely enough to have done this most
difficult thing called letting go of control&mdash;of abandoning the
practice and exercise of control. You haven&rsquo;t arrived at the point
where, in doing so, you find that chaos has not occurred, but rather,
pure peace, pure safety, pure security in a context of living love that
is the environment of your being and of all things.

Now&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you will consider what you have taught, and how alien it is to what
you thought you knew, you will be compelled to recognize that your
Teacher&hellip;
</div>

that being the Holy Spirit&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
came from beyond your thought system, and so could look upon it
fairly, and perceive it was untrue. And He must have done so from the
basis of a very different thought system, and one with NOTHING in common
with yours. For certainly what He has taught, and what you have taught
through Him, have nothing in common with what you taught before He came.
And the results have been to bring peace where there was pain, and
suffering has disappeared, to be replaced by joy.
</div>

The reason it&rsquo;s important to understand this, is because your
experience of the Holy Spirit communicating with you, addressing you in
language that you can understand and that means something and is
transformational to you, this is experienced in the very same place
where you have done all of your orphan-minded thinking, you would say,
that you hear the Holy Spirit in your mind and you think in and with
your mind. And so, hearing the Holy Spirit is occurring in the same
place. And yet, what you hear is entirely different from what you, as
the orphan you thought you were&mdash;taught, believed and
&ldquo;understood.&rdquo;

So, it can seem as though you&rsquo;re experiencing two selves: One,
yours&mdash;the orphan you&rsquo;ve always been, who&rsquo;s learning
new wonderful things&mdash;and another Mind, another Presence in the
same place. Another Self that thinks differently from you and yet speaks
with you, embraces you in a way that you haven&rsquo;t been embraced
before and treats you in a way that transforms you without causing you
to feel great guilt.

Now, what I have taught you as we have been moving through this book, is
what the book has told us: That the Holy Spirit is nothing more than
your right Mind. Therefore, this is not another self, let&rsquo;s say, a
self that is part of the Holy Trinity, which is very different from
mankind, the Holy Spirit is nothing more than your right Mind. So it
would seem that in your mind there are two selves: This One that teaches
like you&rsquo;ve never taught before, and the you that you think you
are who takes up most of the space in your mind with all of your
thinking.

Why is this important? It&rsquo;s important because salvation lies in a
simple shift from where you&rsquo;re giving your allegiance&mdash;what
you&rsquo;re valuing. It&rsquo;s not complicated. It doesn&rsquo;t
require complex learning processes. It constitutes a simple behavior and
the most significant one is the easiest one. And that is the practice of
neglect. Neglect is effortless and it&rsquo;s the one thing essential to
Waking up.

What do you neglect? You neglect to value and practice thinking. You
neglect to make so much noise yourself that you can&rsquo;t hear
anything, which then makes it possible for you to hear effortlessly.

Now, it&rsquo;s time for you to stop having an
&ldquo;understanding&rdquo; of the principles of A Course In Miracles.
It&rsquo;s time for you to be through having these understandings that
you can easily share and rationalize about. It&rsquo;s time for the
intellectuality of the Course to be neglected because it&rsquo;s
essential for what you&rsquo;ve been learning to be embodied.

Now, does that mean through effort of your own? No. It means by
indulging in the two-step: Stepping back, hesitating &hellip; stepping
back, not acting immediately out of habit, and asking, &ldquo;What is
the truth here?&rdquo; Asking of the Holy Spirit, asking of That which
is nothing more than your right Mind which, as long as you are
pretending to be an orphan, is the Voice for God&mdash;the Voice for
Truth. The Holy Spirit in you is the Voice for God&mdash;the Voice for
Truth. It&rsquo;s That of you which you&rsquo;ve disowned because
you&rsquo;ve said &ldquo;Hey, I would rather have charge of things and
make things happen on my own and become somebody by virtue of what
I&rsquo;ve done.&rdquo; That&rsquo;s all.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have taught freedom, but you have not learned how to be free.
</div>

You see, you can talk a good talk but you haven&rsquo;t learned how to
embody it and actually be free. You still haven&rsquo;t found it of more
value than anything else to be constantly enquiring of the Holy Spirit,
to know how to be, what to say: &ldquo;What is happening? What&rsquo;s
the truth here?&rdquo;

I have told Paul, &ldquo;Let me respond to everything.&rdquo;

Now, I have the same function as the Holy Spirit, whether it&rsquo;s
with Paul, or any of you. And so, when I say, &ldquo;Let me respond to
everything,&rdquo; I&rsquo;m not asking him as he sometimes believes, to
defer to someone else&mdash;to become nothing himself, and just always
be the mouthpiece or the actor, acting out someone else&rsquo;s desires.
I&rsquo;m not. That is not what I am when I say, &ldquo;Let me respond
to everything.&rdquo;

I am saying, &ldquo;Be Still and let me reveal your responses, the you
that you divinely Are. Let me share those with you. Let me guide you in
using your own true voice and your own true mind, to be in your daily
experience so that you might come into a feeling of less awkwardness
around this, so that you come into a feeling of its naturalness, so that
you don&rsquo;t resist it or feel that it&rsquo;s not really you, or
it&rsquo;s better than you.&rdquo;

The point is that you have to let down your intent. You have to withdraw
your intent to enact things, authorize things, be the cause of things,
so that you might be able to join with the Holy Spirit or with me, and
have your true Being and your real Mind illumined for you so that you
might lean into It&mdash;It being the real You. And as a result of that,
feel the naturalness of It and allow yourself ultimately to stay there
without asking for my help. This is the point and this is when the
comfort of your teaching will be experienced by you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have taught freedom, but you have not learned how to be free. We
once said, "By their fruits ye shall know them, and they shall know
themselves." For it is certain that you judge yourself according to your
teaching. The ego&rsquo;s teaching produces immediate results because
its decisions are immediately accepted as YOUR choice.
</div>

You accept them as YOUR choice. And that&rsquo;s why you have the
visibility and tangibility immediately of the ego&rsquo;s thought
system&mdash;belief system, etc.

But, if you turn to the Holy Spirit and ask: &ldquo;What is the truth
here? What should I say here? What is the appropriate way for me to be
right now?&rdquo; And you let that flow, you will have the immediate
results because you&rsquo;re willing to say and acknowledge that
it&rsquo;s your choice. That&rsquo;s the point! That&rsquo;s the shift
we&rsquo;re talking about. Where, when you listen for the truth and you
express it, you don&rsquo;t treat it as though it&rsquo;s some third
person event, but rather a first person event. And they are your words
and they are your choice.

You say, and Paul does too, he says: &ldquo;I want to know the truth
above and beyond my pet theories and best concepts; I want to know the
truth.&rdquo; And I share the truth and he hears it and shares it and
lets it be the truth that Raj has shared and does not get the comfort of
the truth he has shared that he would get if he claimed it as his
choice, if he knew that it was his choice. That the silly thing is; that
he asked to know what the truth was. He wants to know the
truth&mdash;that is his choice. You see?

And you do the same thing. And it&rsquo;s very important when the truth
is revealed to you that you acknowledge that it&rsquo;s your experience
of truth. Not someone else&rsquo;s. And that to know that truth is your
choice. And the truth that is being said will have its instantaneous
immediate results when…you…let…it…be… your choice. Because that&rsquo;s
the way it works. When it&rsquo;s your choice, you&rsquo;ve got it. When
it&rsquo;s your choice, you get it.

Everyone says they wish they were wealthy. Well they don&rsquo;t wish
they were wealthy because if that was their choice, [snaps fingers] they
would instantly be wealthy.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego&rsquo;s teaching produces immediate results because its
decisions are immediately accepted&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; I&rsquo;m going to add, by you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; as YOUR choice. And this acceptance means that you are willing
to judge yourself accordingly. Cause and effect are very clear in the
ego&rsquo;s thought system because all your learning has been directed
towards ESTABLISHING the relationship between them. And would you not
have faith in what you have so diligently taught yourself to believe?
</div>

Of course, you&rsquo;re too proud to do otherwise. All orphans are.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet remember how much care you have exerted in choosing it&rsquo;s
witnesses, and avoiding those which spoke for the cause of truth and ITS
effects.
</div>

So what is this saying? It&rsquo;s saying that you have to pay
attention. It&rsquo;s mandatory that you pay attention to how
you&rsquo;re using your mind so that you are not using it against what
you want and thereby denying you the experience of your Birthright as a
holy Son or Daughter of God and of the Kingdom of Heaven that is what
you are in the middle of.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Does not the fact that you have not learned what you have taught
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; this meaning, the truth that you&rsquo;ve been teaching, the
truth that you&rsquo;ve heard by virtue of doing the two-step and
listening and hearing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Does not the fact that you have not learned what you have taught show
you that you do not perceive the Sonship as one?
</div>

You say &hellip; &ldquo;Well, Raj said it.&rdquo; And some of you may
say, &ldquo;Well, Paul said it.&rdquo;

If you&rsquo;ve heard the truth and you recognize the truth, it&rsquo;s
yours. It&rsquo;s not someone else&rsquo;s. And yet, the fact that Raj
said it and Paul voiced it and you heard it and you claimed it, that
demonstrates that the Sonship is One. Because you&rsquo;ve let it be
One. You haven&rsquo;t held part of it away from you.

&ldquo;Well, that&rsquo;s what Raj said. I know it&rsquo;s the truth but
it&rsquo;s the truth that Raj said.&rdquo;

You keep it at a distance. It needs to be embodied, incorporated. It
needs to be owned. You need to let your mind be changed in the sense of
recognizing yourself in a declaration of truth that comes out of your
mouth as a result of Revelation. It&rsquo;s that simple and its that
beautiful.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Does not the fact that you have not learned what you have taught show
you that you do not perceive the Sonship as one? And does it not also
show you that you do not regard YOURSELF as one? For it is impossible to
teach successfully wholly WITHOUT conviction, and it is equally
impossible that conviction be OUTSIDE of you.
</div>

Yeah &hellip; I know. If you let the truth come from the Holy
Spirit&mdash;that which is nothing more than your right Mind&mdash;and
you let it come through your mouth and it is beautiful and it is healing
and it is incredible &hellip; well, that&rsquo;s going to say something
about you, isn&rsquo;t it. That might disclose your holiness, which,
you&rsquo;re not sure you really want&mdash;you&rsquo;re not sure you
want anybody to think that well of you. They might start leaning on you,
they might start making demands on you and so on and so forth.

They may give you credit which you would appreciate, but in giving you
the credit, they may start to lean on you and that part of it is not so
hot. So you keep it in the third person. You keep it at a distance and
you don&rsquo;t let it show as you, you don&rsquo;t let yourself feel it
as you. And that&rsquo;s the call. That&rsquo;s the shift.

You see, it&rsquo;s not just an intellectual shift of ideas where you
suddenly grasp the truth as opposed to the error. It&rsquo;s a shift in
you that affects your experience of your identity. It renders you holy
and if you allow it, you will embrace your holiness with gratitude, you
see? &hellip;with embrace, without resistance, in a way that allows the
experience to be identified to you as you, thus changing your experience
of yourself.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You could never have taught freedom unless you DID believe in it. And it
must be that what you taught came from YOURSELF. And yet, this Self you
clearly do not KNOW&hellip;
</div>

this capital &ldquo;S&rdquo; Self &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And yet, this Self you clearly do not KNOW, and do not recognize
&hellip;
</div>

Again:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And yet, this Self you clearly do not KNOW, and do not recognize It even
though It functions.
</div>

Your holiness, your divine mindedness is ever present and always
functioning. And it&rsquo;s always functioning as you experiencing
yourself as that. But you&rsquo;ve lost the direct experience of it
because you have chosen for awhile&mdash;too long awhile&mdash;to play
at being an orphan who has a capacity to do things on its own.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What functions must be THERE.
</div>

If you ask the Holy Spirit a question and you get an answer, the Holy
Spirit must be there. Simple. Now, if the Holy Spirit responds and you
hear it, and the Holy Spirit is nothing more than your right Mind, then
you have clearly experienced yourSelf, even though you don&rsquo;t
recognize It as such. And so it&rsquo;s necessary to reiterate it as
I&rsquo;m doing tonight. And it&rsquo;s necessary for you to remind
yourselves so that you don&rsquo;t easily forget and you can keep doing
what will promote your Awakening rather than doing what will prevent it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What functions must be THERE. And it is only if you deny what it has
DONE that you could possibly deny its presence.

This is a course in how to know yourself.
</div>

That&rsquo;s it!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is a course in how to know yourself. You HAVE taught what you are,
but have not let what you are teach YOU.
</div>

You do &hellip; even when you&rsquo;re acting as an orphan, you do
express love. Love is something the ego, the orphan, is incapable of
expressing. Love doesn&rsquo;t exist in it. But even though you&rsquo;re
claiming to be an orphan, you do express love. But you haven&rsquo;t let
the love that you&rsquo;ve expressed teach you. You haven&rsquo;t been
willing to acknowledge that that love is divine, that it has its Source
in God. And that it&rsquo;s expression through you is an expression of
God through you. And that&rsquo;s why when it is genuinely expressed it
heals.

And then you say, &ldquo;It was a miracle. God performed a
miracle.&rdquo; See, as though you weren&rsquo;t involved. Oh, course,
you don&rsquo;t want to be too involved in that kind of thing, you know.
But you don&rsquo;t want to suffer sin, disease and death. So
you&rsquo;ve got to become clear and you&rsquo;ve got to stop standing
on both sides of the fence. That&rsquo;s what this is about.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have been very careful to avoid the obvious, and not to see the REAL
cause and effect relationship that is perfectly apparent.

You have been very careful to avoid the obvious&hellip;
</div>

the obvious is that you&rsquo;re the Son of God or the Daughter
of God. And you haven&rsquo;t not wanted &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
to see the REAL cause and effect relationship that is perfectly
apparent.
</div>

&hellip; in the Son or Daughter of God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet within you is EVERYTHING you taught. What can it be that has NOT
learned it? It must be this that is REALLY outside yourself, not by your
own projection, but in TRUTH.
</div>

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What can it be that has NOT learned it?
</div>

Well, it has to be this fanciful sense of selfhood&mdash;of independent
selfhood&mdash;that doesn&rsquo;t really exist in actuality. And
that&rsquo;s why it must be outside yourself. You see? And it&rsquo;s
not outside yourself by your own projection. It&rsquo;s outside of you
because it has to be outside of you. It doesn&rsquo;t exist. It
doesn&rsquo;t exist, therefore, its being outside of you is not a
projection. It is the truth.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And it is this that you have taken in that is NOT you. What you accept
into your minds does not REALLY change them. Illusions are but beliefs
in what is not there. And the seeming conflict between truth and
illusion can only be resolved by separating yourself from the ILLUSION,
and NOT from truth.
</div>

So, how do you separate yourself from the illusion? By not creating the
illusion through continued thinking and reasoning that starts from a
faulty premise.

There&rsquo;s only one way to separate yourself from illusion and that
is, to neglect to energize and seem to create a false sense of self with
rights and capacities, abilities that it couldn&rsquo;t possibly have
because God didn&rsquo;t create it.

And how do you do that? You do that, as I said last week, by shutting
up, becoming silent. In the silence, the conscious awareness that you
Are, continues to be what it Is, the paying of
attention&mdash;attentiveness. Attentiveness, you could say, is
inquisitiveness. It&rsquo;s an aliveness, an awakeness to Something. And
in that attentive silence, the Movement of Creation that has been going
on constantly, can register with you. Truth can register with you. You
will call it Revelation. That&rsquo;s how you separate yourself from
illusion.

You join with the Holy Spirit by neglecting to energize the ego you
thought you were, the ego that you have been taught that you are.
Hmmm&hellip; that means coming humbly. You see? Arrogance doesn&rsquo;t
exist in the quietness of your being. Arrogance, authoritativeness,
willfulness does not exist in the silence&mdash;in the silence that is
an attentive conscious mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your teaching has already done this, for the Holy Spirit is part of YOU.
Created by God, &hellip;

Created by God, He left neither God nor His creation. He
&hellip;
</div>

the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
is both God AND you, as you are God and Him together. For
God&rsquo;s answer to the separation added more to you than you tried to
take away. He protected both your creations and you together, keeping
one with you &hellip;
</div>

Paul: I&rsquo;m sorry &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
keeping one with you what you would exclude.
</div>

This is important.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He &hellip;
</div>

the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
is both God AND you, as you are God and Him &hellip;
</div>

the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
together.
</div>

Now, I&rsquo;ve said before, that you are not God, but God is all there
is of you. Therefore, where you are, God is all there Is. You see,
there&rsquo;s a unity and an integrity: You, the Holy Spirit and God are
One. And that One is God. The incredible perfection of Being, the
incredible perfection of all existence becomes available to you to
experience when you let you, the Holy Spirit and God be all there Is,
and that being God.

What does that mean? It simply means that you neglect to reenergize and
reinforce your thinking, all of the past results of your thinking, all
of your memory and you say, &ldquo;I know nothing of myself. I never
have known anything of truth of myself. And as a result, my experience
of being the Son of God has been a troubled one, a difficult one, a
painful one, a sick one, and I don&rsquo;t want to have that experience
any more. And so this me, who I have tried to build up into a big voice,
is going to become silent and just be the presence of Mind that can
recognize things. And I&rsquo;m going to let the silence endure until
it&rsquo;s filled with what God is filling it up with, until everything
that God has been filling it up with registers with me.&rdquo;
That&rsquo;s your prayer. That&rsquo;s the practice. And it&rsquo;s
practicing this that will bring you back into the comfort of your
teaching, the one that you&rsquo;re not yet experiencing, but you need
to be, you should be, you deserve to be.

Will you yield to God? Will you defer to that which is nothing more than
your right Mind? When I ask the question, it sounds a little silly. Will
you be willing to defer to that which is your right Mind? &ldquo;Well,
yeah, why wouldn&rsquo;t I?&rdquo; Well, why aren&rsquo;t you?

But that&rsquo;s the call. And so, instead of pretending that you know
everything, you need to start asking, &ldquo;What is everything?&rdquo;
You need to become curious again, full of vibrant attentiveness and
expectation. You won&rsquo;t find that as long as you&rsquo;re looking
to yourself and relying upon yourself. And life is not going to be
joyful.

But life is going to be joyful because more and more individuals are
getting it. And as a result, more and more individuals are willing to
lean into their Source, lean into their right Mind, lean into the
Brotherhood, do exactly the opposite of what has caused an experience of
orphanhood, which is separation&mdash;a holding of oneself apart. You
see, that&rsquo;s where the neglect comes in. Neglect to reinforce that.
Neglect to value it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What you accept into your minds does not REALLY change them. Illusions
are but beliefs in what is not there. And the seeming conflict between
truth and illusion can only be resolved by separating yourself from the
ILLUSION, and NOT from truth.
</div>

And again:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your teaching has already done this, for the Holy Spirit is part of YOU.
Created by God, He left neither God nor His creation. He is both God AND
you, as you are God and Him together. For God&rsquo;s answer to the
separation added more to you than you tried to take away.
</div>

Such love, such love that you are constantly being held in, nurtured by
and kept eternal while you pretend to be a mortal enjoying the thrill
and the challenge of getting the most that you can before you die, and
becoming the most that you can before you die.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He protected both your creations and you together, keeping one with you
what you would exclude. And they will take the place of what you took in
to replace them. They are quite real, as part of the Self you do not
know.
</div>

The Self that you claim not to be, the Self that is the holy Son of God,
that you would rather nobody knew you were. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And they communicate to you through the Holy Spirit&hellip;
</div>

your creations &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
and their power and gratitude to you for their creation they
offer gladly to your teaching of yourself, who is their home.
</div>

You see? Your teaching of yourself &hellip; your teaching of yourself is
your accepting the comfort of your teaching. Everything is teaching you
about yourself, because everything is the visibility and tangibility of
your Individuality. And your Individuality is the Presence of God.

Come on &hellip; this week please &hellip; please be willing to embrace
your holiness. Please stop denying it. Please stop resisting it. Please
stop covering it up.

Now, being holy is not a behavior. So you don&rsquo;t cover it up by a
different &hellip; you don&rsquo;t be holy by adopting a new behavior.
You be holy by neglecting to use and reinforce the orphan mentality. You
stop covering it up by engaging in the two-step. You stop covering it up
by letting yourself be in your right Mind. And you let yourself be in
your right Mind by what? By desiring to Know from It. That&rsquo;s how.
You will find yourself knowing from It, if you will neglect to do so
much thinking and so much talking and so much asserting.

Now you may not be too happy with what I&rsquo;ve shared. It may sound
like work. It may sound like work that is not very satisfying. But
I&rsquo;m going to ask you: How satisfying is sin, disease and death?
How satisfying is it, even if you&rsquo;re very young, to be able to
think, &ldquo;Oh, I&rsquo;ve got sixty years to go before I&rsquo;ll
die. I have plenty of time to live.&rdquo; How do you like that? You
shouldn&rsquo;t even have that thought in your mindset, because the holy
Son of God is the direct manifestation of God and is therefore as
eternal as God.

Please, again, value being Awake. Value it enough to pay attention so
that you stop doing what keeps you from Waking up, so that you neglect
to do what keeps you from Waking up.

And I don&rsquo;t usually ask this, but I&rsquo;m going to suggest and
ask that you read what we&rsquo;ve covered tonight at least once a day
to remind you where your attention needs to be, so that you don&rsquo;t
get lost and so that you don&rsquo;t have unnecessary misery, and so
that maybe you&rsquo;re lifted out of the whole frame of reference in
which misery goes on, because you&rsquo;ve let God&rsquo;s perspective
be yours, which it always has been even though you&rsquo;ve been
ignoring it.

I love you very much. And I will be with every single one of you this
week in support of your making the shift. And I look forward to being
with you next time.

[^1]: T16.3 The Reward of Teaching

