---
title: Mar 20, 2010
ref: "T16.3 The Reward of Teaching"
alink: "/acim/text/16/chap1603/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

We&rsquo;re reading from a section called, &ldquo;The Reward of
Teaching.&rdquo; What do you think the reward of teaching is?

The reward of teaching is joy. And you might say, &ldquo;Joy for
whom?&rdquo; Joy for the teacher. And why does the teacher experience
joy? Because the student has learned. The teacher teaches, the student
learns. Light-bulbs go on. Acknowledgment occurs. Acknowledgment of what
was being taught. And that light of recognition where there had been
darkness before&mdash;ignorance before, you could say&mdash;makes it
worth everything that the teacher had to do to cause the illumination to
happen.

The student gives the teacher joy by confirming the teacher&rsquo;s
function&mdash;that the teacher&rsquo;s function was successful.

Now, how is it that the student learned? The only way the student
learned was by virtue of his or her abandoning resistance to the
Knowing. Abandoning resistance to what&rsquo;s being
illuminated&mdash;letting it in. The student learns by listening.
Simple. The two-step: One hesitates, one enquires, &ldquo;What is the
truth here?&rdquo; and one listens.

And if one listens without resistance, without reluctance, revealing
occurs. The light-bulb goes on and the student has learned. And what
happens? He experiences awe, he experiences joy and that is what he
teaches&mdash;that is what he is teaching. I&rsquo;m going to put it
this way: That is what he finds himself teaching.

It&rsquo;s not a plan. The student didn&rsquo;t say, &ldquo;I&rsquo;m
going to consider very carefully here what my teacher is saying, so that
I might grasp it&rsquo;s full meaning and have an &lsquo;ah-ha&rsquo;
experience so that I might light up with the biggest smile that has ever
crossed my face so that my teacher may know that he or she has
succeeded.&rdquo;

No. That&rsquo;s not teaching. No, when the learning actually occurs and
the joy is felt, the experience of joy and the act of joy that happens
spontaneously becomes the teaching.

If the teacher is having a bad day that day, he or she may not notice it
and may not experience the joy. But the point is, that the teaching has
occurred. And the biggest point is that the teaching wasn&rsquo;t
planned. The teaching wasn&rsquo;t calculated. The teaching wasn&rsquo;t
something that the student was trying to do.

What am I trying to say here? I&rsquo;m trying to say that because
everyone is emerging from the orphan mentality where life is a matter of
doing things that cause credibility to be associated with the orphan,
then there is going to be an automatic assumption that when I said,
&ldquo;Listen, learn and do,&rdquo; that the doing will be something
planned, the doing will be something calculated and methodical toward a
certain end, not an uncertain end. And yet, the doing&mdash;the only
doing that means anything and is the meaning embodied in that statement,
&ldquo;Listen, learn and do,&rdquo;&mdash;is the spontaneous lighting up
of your Being, the uncalculated expression of awe. That&rsquo;s the
doing.

Well that isn&rsquo;t quite so satisfying to the orphan mentality. That
isn&rsquo;t quite so satisfying to the ego. Because of course, if the
meaningful teaching is going to occur spontaneously without any plan,
without any form of control being exercised, there&rsquo;s not going to
be anyone present to take credit for it and to be justified as a
credible, valuable individuality, which is of course, as we&rsquo;ve
been discussing, the whole point of life for the ego.

Now, if I say, &ldquo;You don&rsquo;t know who you Are &hellip; you
don&rsquo;t Know who you Are,&rdquo; you&rsquo;re likely to say,
&ldquo;Well, who the hell does he think he is telling me I don&rsquo;t
know who I am? Of course I know who I am. I can show you my credentials,
my pedigree, as it were.&rdquo;

But now let me say it a different way: &ldquo;You don&rsquo;t Know who
you Are &hellip; you holy Son of God &hellip; you holy Daughter of
God.&rdquo;

&ldquo;&hellip; Oh, that&rsquo;s what you&rsquo;re talking about
&hellip; um-m &hellip; well, that&rsquo;s nice talk and well&hellip;
what if I am the holy Son of God, really. You know, maybe I am, but
I&rsquo;m not going to explore the possibility, I&rsquo;m not going to
try to find out that it&rsquo;s really true and actually let myself be
changed so that my actions embody my holiness and make it
obvious.&rdquo; You see?

The very fact that you would be reluctant to embrace It demonstrates the
fact that you do not know who you Are. And yet, I must tell you that you
are not the orphan you think you are. You are not the independent agent
you think you are. And you are not just a happenstance&mdash;a fluke a
nature&mdash;something that just popped up out of nowhere because of a
sperm and a egg, that will live for a time and wither and die, never to
be seen again.

Someone has to tell you that you are a holy Son of God or a holy
Daughter of God, and do it so persistently and so matter of factly that
you will finally decide to let go of your resistance&mdash;like the
student, to learn &hellip; to learn something new &hellip; to be changed
by the learning. I must do it.

You are &hellip; you are, right now, the Presence of God. You are right
now what God is Being &hellip; I&rsquo;m going to say, right where you
are. Even more appropriately, you are right now that Mind, that
conscious awareness which is inseparable from God&mdash;not different
from God&mdash;including all that God knows, and therefore, all that God
is, you Are. You and your Father are One. And God is that One. Your
Father is that One.

Now, the biggest learning that is occurring right now, the main lesson
that&rsquo;s being taught right now is, that it is your function to be a
teacher&mdash;a teacher who fulfills his capacity as a teacher&mdash;by
being the student, by listening humbly and with uninhibited curiosity.
Why? So that you might be filled with what God is filling &hellip; being
with, that is called Creation. So that you might stand in awe of It and
so that your joy at the experience of It lights up your Being and
teaches everyone else while everyone else finds themselves also teaching
involuntarily the conscious experience of what God is Being that they
are having &hellip; that they&rsquo;re having. Why? Because they have
neglected to hold themselves apart, trying to be independent, trying to
have their own ideas, trying to have their own agendas.

Your function as a co-creator with God is to be that presence of Mind
which is undefended&mdash;not side-tracked by agendas of its
own&mdash;which stands ready to see what God is going to do next, so
that whatever the expression of awe is that comes out at that moment
because of the experience of Creation that is being had, will become the
teaching that everyone learns from, while at the same time being the joy
that one could say is heard as the music of the spheres&mdash;universal
harmony, the full expression of joy and love.

Now, I realize I&rsquo;m speaking in very grand, large terms. But all of
this is encapsulated in the idea of the two-step.

So you want to be a teacher &hellip; so you want to be a do-er? Then
become receptive. Become not masculine and assertive, but feminine and
undefended and receptive and inviting of life.

Be willing to be a humiliated orphan. And in the absence of any capacity
to take credit for anything worthwhile, be the womb in which Creation
occurs. You&rsquo;re not being the place that causes Creation, but you
are being the place where you allow Creation. And by virtue of the
allowing, experience it in its totality with the fullness of Meaning
that God is Being in it.

What you find yourself experiencing and acknowledging is you, for lack
of better words, creating your recognition of God there &hellip; there
&hellip; there, is your creation. It is your part in Creation.

God unrecognized is non-existent.

Now, what happens if you decide to do something all by yourself? If you
decide to play, &ldquo;Let&rsquo;s pretend I am going to be an
authority. I&rsquo;m going to pretend that I can create things on my
own. I&rsquo;m going to stop fulfilling my function of recognizing God
there. I&rsquo;m going to do things so that I can say I recognize myself
there &hellip; and I recognize myself there.&rdquo;

Well, do you think that what you truly Are stops being what it is while
you play &ldquo;Let&rsquo;s pretend?&rdquo; You think that while
you&rsquo;re playing Let&rsquo;s pretend, your pretensions become
actual, and what you really Are [chuckle] sort of evaporates? Absolutely
not!

And so that&rsquo;s why it seems like there are two selves. The moment
you decided to dally with the ego and an ego-sense of things, all that
you truly were&mdash;and I&rsquo;ve said this many times
before&mdash;became held in trust by the Father until you decided not to
play &ldquo;Let&rsquo;s pretend&rdquo; any longer. And this Self, held
in trust, has been called the Holy Spirit &hellip; the Father, the Son
and the Holy Spirit.

Now there&rsquo;s really only the Father Being the Son&mdash;the
Movement of Creation. But the moment the Son decided to play
&ldquo;Let&rsquo;s pretend&rdquo; and ignore what he really Was &hellip;
ah-h &hellip; at that point the Father made a Gift. That&rsquo;s the
simplest way of putting it. The Gift was that your divinity&mdash;your
holiness&mdash;was held in trust, untouched by your imagination, and it
was called the Holy Spirit. And so, there&rsquo;s the holy trinity.

The moment you remember who you Are, the moment you stop resisting the
conscious experience of who you Are, the moment you become a true
teacher by being a forever student, it will no longer be the Father, the
Son and the Holy Spirit. It will be the Father, Who&rsquo;s Son is that
which acknowledges and recognizes his Source: The Father, in all of
Creation. And although this is not accurate, it&rsquo;s the Son&rsquo;s
place to put his seal of approval on the Father&rsquo;s Act of Creation.
And that&rsquo;s what makes Creation Real. Everything you put your seal
of approval on is your creation&mdash;your confirmation of what it truly
is. And your recognition of the Father in each and every thing is
essential to Heaven, essential to Reality.

Now, how many of you since we last gathered two weeks ago, did spend
time doing the two-step more frequently than you had before?

And I&rsquo;m going to ask two things: How many of you, if you&rsquo;re
being honest, found that you didn&rsquo;t really like the idea? How many
of you found you still resisted it? You did it but you did it with your
teeth set on edge. You did it but you&rsquo;d rather not have done it.

Now, it&rsquo;s good to know that. Because most everybody thinks they
would love to be enlightened, that they would love to be
Awake&mdash;that Salvation would come for them. But the fact is,
there&rsquo;s much resistance to it. And the reason there&rsquo;s
resistance to it is this need for a fix of self-importance.

So what&rsquo;s the learning in this? That you found that you were
willing to do it but you surprisingly enough, weren&rsquo;t happy about
it.

The learning in it is, that you&rsquo;re going to have to be determined.
You&rsquo;re going to have to persist in the face of a conditioned
reluctance. And you&rsquo;re going to have to persist because the
conditioned reluctance which you think is going to save your credibility
for you, is actually going to deny your experience of your
holiness&mdash;of who you truly Are as the holy Son of God and not an
orphan and not a fluke of nature.

You&rsquo;re going to have to persist.

I encourage you not to waste energy fussing about it&mdash;grousing
about it! It will just take your energy away. And all you have to say
is, &ldquo;I&rsquo;m not going to do that. I don&rsquo;t have to react
here. I don&rsquo;t have to be upset about this. All I need to do is
keep moving forward in the face of the suggestion that I&rsquo;m going
to lose something essential to my being, because that suggestion, that
I&rsquo;m going to lose something essential to my being, is a lie.

This takes practice. This takes self-discipline.

Now, how many of you in the last two weeks listened for Guidance and
were willing to ask yourselves the question: &ldquo;How much am I
willing to risk? How much am I willing to chance that there&rsquo;s a
God? How much am I willing to risk letting go of, to see if in fact, the
Kingdom of Heaven is at hand &hellip; to see if in fact, a sudden shift
of perception occurs that&rsquo;s called, &lsquo;a
Miracle?&rsquo;&rdquo;

How much of a risk are you willing to take to see if something
incredibly beyond your present sense of things is available for you to
experience?

Now, let&rsquo;s say, that within reason, you said you were willing to
do that. And so, you joined in the two-step process and listened. Paul
did that starting the day after the last meeting. And we talked more
than we had in quite awhile&mdash;at least more frequently. And I guided
him. When he asked, what was appropriate here? I shared it with him. Not
only did I share with him what was appropriate, I shared with him the
feeling, the motivation, the energy around carrying out what was
appropriate.

This caused him to experience himself as being a little bit more
aggressive than he usually is. In some ways, a little bit more pushy in
certain circumstances, where it was appropriate to encourage someone
else to move across their threshold, to act when they didn&rsquo;t feel
like acting.

Paul tends not to put himself in those kinds of positions. It&rsquo;s a
position best described as involvement.

There were things that it was important for someone to do. And Paul knew
it and Paul felt the importance of it although he did not know why it
was important. It was just appropriate for him to be the place where the
feeling and the ideas were expressed of the appropriateness of taking an
action that the other one lacked confidence to follow through on.

Now, one might say, &ldquo;Did Paul have a problem with that?&rdquo; Or
&ldquo;Why would Paul have a problem with that?&rdquo; Well, first of
all, that is not his manner. Like I said, he tends to be involved in
very uninvolved ways, where coercion very seldom comes into play where
he, being a force for movement of some sort, doesn&rsquo;t happen.

So that caused some uneasiness. But he had said and felt the willingness
and the commitment to risking for the sake of his good, for the sake of
everything that I&rsquo;m teaching, and everything that&rsquo;s coming
out of his mouth with all of you. And so he did it. But here&rsquo;s
(and many of you will recognize this) here&rsquo;s the clincher, the old
habit, the engrained habit: He said, (and here was his reluctance, here
was his conditioned resistance) &ldquo;This isn&rsquo;t what I&rsquo;m
supposed to be doing &hellip; this isn&rsquo;t my holy work.&rdquo;

The smile on his face is as much his as it is mine. He feels the humor
of it as fully as I do now. The involvement that he participated in had
nothing to do with spirituality. It had to do with a very practical
mundane sort of meeting of the need.

&ldquo;Well, he wasn&rsquo;t getting the transcript up on the website!
Well, he wasn&rsquo;t contemplating what had been discussed in the last
meeting. Well, he wasn&rsquo;t reading the section of the lesson from
the last meeting that I suggested everyone read once a day.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Well, he wasn&rsquo;t supposed to be doing this!&rdquo;

Now, it&rsquo;s important to know this. Paul&rsquo;s not the only one
who&rsquo;s had this experience. Many of you have too. And if
you&rsquo;re not careful, you could find yourself abandoning the
two-step entirely so that you can dutifully take care of things you have
been conditioned to believe are your actual holy work, even though your
holiness is something you&rsquo;d like to keep quiet.

Now the point is this: The Guidance that you get when you listen,
whether it&rsquo;s from your Guide or from me, is identically the same
Guidance you would get from the Holy Spirit&mdash;that which is nothing
more than your right Mind&mdash;because we all have the same function,
because you all have the same need.

And the need is for you to be reintroduced to and become reacquainted
with your Self&mdash;the One that Knows the truth, the One that&rsquo;s
held in trust while you dally with the ego.

If you are not willing to do the two-step and enquire, &ldquo;What is
the truth here?&rdquo; and be, what I would call, &ldquo;Full open
consciousness, totally non-resistive consciousness,&rdquo; ready to let
in truth in its totality, you are not going to be bringing with you any
filter or any groove, so to speak, or plan for the truth that
you&rsquo;re going to be receiving to fit into.

If you want to Wake up&mdash;which you do&mdash;you&rsquo;re simply
going to need to be willing to listen for what you&rsquo;re not
expecting and to listen for that which, for lack of better words,
doesn&rsquo;t add up to the criteria of your orphan-mindset.

Paul went through the week after the last meeting caught up, you might
say, in a Movement&mdash;the breeze we were talking about, that we have
talked about, the Movement of Love, the Movement of Creation. And in
allowing himself to be in the flow of It without exercising control
based upon previously learned criteria, he behaved in an entirely new
way that didn&rsquo;t make sense to his previous standards. It was
utterly original, utterly spontaneous and yet totally genuine.

And this is the kind of experience you will have. It will be unexpected,
uncalculated. You will say, &ldquo;Why am I doing this?&rdquo; But you
will also have the accompanying push, the accompanying support for being
perfectly consistent with the Movement so that your behavior is utterly
appropriate according to some standard of appropriateness that you
haven&rsquo;t embraced before.

And as a result of Paul doing this, each day right up to the end of the
week (last Saturday) when I told Paul we would not hold the meeting,
&ldquo;Oh, I&rsquo;m not supposed to be doing this I&rsquo;m supposed to
be having A Course In Miracles Study Group, where I let Raj
speak.&rdquo;

Oh really! Your guide would say to your comments of that sort,
&ldquo;Oh really! Oh really? You got God locked into Saturday night
doing exactly what you expect to happen? Maybe God will be being you in
a different way as part of the Movement of Creation, and maybe in the
process of your letting it, your allowing it, you will learn
something.&rdquo;

What did Paul learn? He learned how dedicated he was to his concepts of
what is right and what isn&rsquo;t right, of what fits and what
doesn&rsquo;t fit. And yet had he successfully bound himself to his
preconceptions, the numerous miracles that happened during that week
would not have happened.

And I&rsquo;ll tell you something else: When you do the two-step, when
you yield and when you let yourself be guided by the Holy Spirit or by
me or by your Guide &hellip;

Paul: Just a moment.

&hellip; you will come to an inner realization of just how futile and
foolish and unproductive it is to listen with a bias, to listen with an
agenda, or to think that you know how things ought to be.

&ldquo;Thy will not mine be done.&rdquo;[^1]

Now let&rsquo;s go into the book. And I&rsquo;m going to back up to the
middle of the first sentence of the paragraph.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the Holy Spirit is part of YOU. Created by God, He &hellip;[^2]
</div>

the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
left neither God nor &hellip;
</div>

God&rsquo;s &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
creation.

&hellip;left neither God nor His creation. He
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
is both God AND you, as you are God and Him &hellip;
</div>

the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
together. For God&rsquo;s answer to the separation added more
to you than you tried to take away.
</div>

What was God&rsquo;s answer to the separation? The Holy Spirit &hellip;
and it became the Father, the Son and the Holy Spirit. God held in trust
all of you while you chose just a little bit of what you are in your
Totality and said, &ldquo;This is me! This is me! This little piece here
is me. And everything I believe about this little bit is to do about the
way things are.&rdquo;

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God&rsquo;s answer to the separation added more to you than you
tried to take away. He protected both your creations and you
together&hellip;
</div>

mind you, up to that point you were being the Presence that
recognizes God in the Movement of Creation. And your recognition of the
Movement was your creation&mdash;your part of the Creation. It&rsquo;s
that simple.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He &hellip;
</div>

God &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
protected both your creations and you together, keeping one
with you what you would exclude.
</div>

You see? &ldquo;Oh no, I&rsquo;m not the holy Son of God. I&rsquo;m a
human being. I&rsquo;m a powerful human being.&rdquo; Or,
&ldquo;I&rsquo;m a human being and I am going to become a powerful human
being.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He protected both your creations and you together, keeping one with you
what you would exclude. And they will take the place of what you took in
&hellip;
</div>

the tiny little stuff &hellip; the tiny little self-definition
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
they will take the place of what you took in to replace them.
They are quite real&hellip;
</div>

your creations&mdash;all of Creation, in which you had
uninhibitedly recognized God IN, before you decided to be an orphan.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
They are quite real, as part of the Self you do not know.
</div>

Do you see how important this is? There is a Self you do not know. And
it is Real and it is actual at this moment while you pretend it
isn&rsquo;t and can define yourself as a physical organism, the result
of millions of years of evolution&mdash;a physical presence and
that&rsquo;s all.

The Self that consciously participated in the Movement of Creation,
fulfilling Its place, is still present &hellip; has gone nowhere
&hellip; is not unconscious of any of Creation. You might say that
you&rsquo;re experiencing a split-mind, in which there is this little
self that you made up that you&rsquo;re giving total credence to, and
the Self that you Are that hasn&rsquo;t changed and is present and
functioning fully in Its God-given capacity at this moment.

Do you catch what I&rsquo;m saying? What I&rsquo;m saying is, that you
seem very sure of who you are. But there is a You that you are not
conscious of that is actual and is Real and is united with the Father
consciously at this moment and everything about It is insinuating Itself
into this tiny self-identification that you&rsquo;re holding on so
tightly to.

We&rsquo;ve talked before about the fact that you&rsquo;re accompanied
by mighty companions&mdash;you&rsquo;re accompanied by the mighty
companion that is your Self right now. It isn&rsquo;t something you have
to grow into. You see? It&rsquo;s fully present. It&rsquo;s fully
developed. It is Whole right now. And It is loving you. It has been
constantly loving you and being an invitation to you to come back into
your right Mind. It&rsquo;s a mighty companion because it&rsquo;s the
Presence of God, you holy Son of God, you holy Daughter of God.

Now, because your orphan mindset is such a habit, you are going to have
to develop some discipline and some determination. Because you will find
that you won&rsquo;t necessarily, or life will not necessarily give you
time to sit down and meditate your way into the Kingdom of Heaven.
You&rsquo;re going to have to start making the choice to want to know
what the truth is here &hellip; and here &hellip; and here&hellip; right
in the middle of the stresses and activities of daily life. You&rsquo;re
not going to be able to manage to get a little vacation from life to
consider the really important spiritual things. And you&rsquo;re going
to have to not grouse about it and react to it.

It would be nice to be able to sit down and meditate and get into your
peace, and a lot of the time you can. But let&rsquo;s abandon the idea
that it&rsquo;s essential. It is going to become increasingly essential
for you to be in the middle of the dramas of life,
&ldquo;listening&rdquo; so that you might hear the appropriate things to
do that identify the miraculous, so that the miraculous can happen. Why?
Because you &ldquo;listened&rdquo;&mdash;you were a student and you
learned and you&rsquo;re being lit up with the recognition of It. And
you did, you taught, you were that presence that caused another who is
being a student, listening, to learn and become lit up with the truth
and rejoice in something that never would have occurred in your daily
life if both of you had tried to be dutiful teachers of the
truth&mdash;the truth that everyone has already known, the truth
that&rsquo;s written down in this book or that book, the positive
thinking that everyone has said would make a difference. You see?

Rehearsing the old does not involve learning at all. Rehearsing the old
means there&rsquo;s no student present. There&rsquo;s someone trying to
be a teacher, trying to be a damn good teacher, an effective teacher, so
that they might get promoted to be principle of the school.

No learning &hellip; no learning and none of the genuine behavior that
comes from the humility involved in being a student and the learning
that causes the ability to teach without credentials&mdash;to teach with
the Spirit of God.

Your creations &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
They are quite real, as part of the Self you do not know. And they
communicate to you through the Holy Spirit, and their power and
gratitude to you for their creation they offer gladly to your teaching
of yourself, who is their home.
</div>

See, that&rsquo;s part of the meaning of being accompanied by mighty
companions. You&rsquo;re accompanied by your creations, which are intent
upon re-igniting your awareness of the Presence of God in them that you
saw before, which is what caused them to be your creations and which
caused you to know Who you Are.

You know, when you&rsquo;re willing to look at a thing, whether
it&rsquo;s a flower or a clod of dirt or a hang-nail, when you&rsquo;re
willing to look at it in an undefended, innocent manner, you are
inviting an experience of illumination, you&rsquo;re inviting an
experience in which whatever it is you&rsquo;re looking at is seen anew
by you, where you&rsquo;re able to recognize that it&rsquo;s not just a
physical thing but that it&rsquo;s, for lack of better words, energy.
And it&rsquo;s the energy of Light and the energy of Love and it is
divine energy &hellip; you holy Son of God &hellip; you holy orchid of
God &hellip; you holy glass tabletop.

And when you experience it as Love, you have the inescapable experience
of being loved by It and everything else around it, everything else
around you takes on this meaning or you let it in more fully and it
expands and you discover that everything that you thought was just
matter, is the Presence of God wholly and loving you. You realize how
embraced you are by that which is Love, because that&rsquo;s what Love
does, It loves you, It loves everything.

So, this mighty companion, your Self that is always with you, is loving
you right now. The integrity of your ultimate Being is present and
active right now in this moment. And fortunately, that&rsquo;s the only
other choice you have available to you to experience. Of course you have
the choice of the orphan mentality that you are constantly reinforcing.
But you only have this one other choice. So it&rsquo;s not complicated.

You have the choice to shift your consciousness, to shift your
attention. You have that capacity. That&rsquo;s all that&rsquo;s
required. And all you&rsquo;re doing is shifting your attention from a
deluded way of perceiving to the true clear-minded awareness that
it&rsquo;s your Birthright to be experiencing &hellip; you holy Son or
Daughter of God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You who are host to God are also host to them.
</div>

Your creations.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For nothing real has ever left the mind of its creator. And what is not
real was never THERE.
</div>

Again, it will seem more and more clear to you at an experiential level
that there seem to be two selves in this same place where you are. And
you are going to have to make a choice for one or the other &hellip; you
are making a choice for one or the other right now.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You are not two selves in conflict.
</div>

It&rsquo;s going to seem like that. And that&rsquo;s why you&rsquo;re
going to have to become determined and disciplined to choose for the
Holy Spirit in you, rather than your current mindset. And you&rsquo;re
going to have to constantly ask, &ldquo;What&rsquo;s appropriate here?
What&rsquo;s appropriate now?&rdquo; &hellip;regardless of what you think is
appropriate.

You&rsquo;re going to have to care to inquire of Something that Knows
beyond your present-limited-perception of things. And what is that going
to mean? It&rsquo;s going to mean that you&rsquo;re going to have to
trust, more than you have ever been willing to trust in your whole
life&mdash;as you think of your whole life. Because the simple fact is,
that in your orphan mentality your distorted perception says that
nothing is actually trustworthy. And that is why you must exercise
maximal control.

You&rsquo;re going to have to arrive at a point where you see that that
is just a style of being that you have adopted&mdash;it isn&rsquo;t
true&mdash;so that you might with determination choose to listen for the
Voice for God, the Voice for Truth in you now &hellip; now &hellip; now
&hellip; now &hellip; now &hellip; now.

It might mean that you&rsquo;re going to have a week that never would
have happened in your life before and two weeks and a month and a year
and an eternity, where you never go back to thinking you know anything
and that you are capable of acting on your own.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You are not two selves in conflict.
</div>

And I&rsquo;m going to add: Even though it will seem that you are.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What is beyond God? If you who hold Him &hellip;
</div>

God &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
and whom He holds ARE &hellip;
</div>

what? &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
the universe&hellip;
</div>

all of Creation. That&rsquo;s what that means, all of Creation.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you who hold Him and whom He holds ARE the universe, all else must be
OUTSIDE, where NOTHING is.
</div>

Now this might not seem understandable if we hadn&rsquo;t talked about
the things we&rsquo;ve talked about tonight.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have taught this, &hellip;

You have taught this, &hellip;
</div>

&ldquo;Oh, wait a minute, you just said that I am an orphan.&rdquo; No,
you think you are, but right along side this imagination that
you&rsquo;re an independent agent, the Self that you Are has continued
to be Itself fully. You&rsquo;re just blocking it out. So you have
taught this. The Self that you Are has taught this uninterruptedly.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and from far off in the universe, yet not beyond yourself, the
witnesses to your teaching have gathered to help you learn.
</div>

What does that mean? It means that all of your creations, which are as
far flung as the universe &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
have gathered to help you learn.
</div>

Do you see the integrity of Being, and you see how you couldn&rsquo;t
possibly arrive at any other point than Awakening, simply because God is
All and nothing else can prevail?

You know what? Nothing else really is prevailing. You just have an
imagination that something else is prevailing. And imagination is
flimsy, insubstantial.

So your Waking up is not difficult. It&rsquo;s a matter of where
you&rsquo;re bringing your attention and how consistently you&rsquo;re
keeping your attention there.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Their gratitude &hellip;
</div>

the gratitude of your creations &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
has joined with yours and God&rsquo;s to strengthen your faith in what
you taught.
</div>

To strengthen your, we&rsquo;ll say, presently limited faith in what the
Self that you Are, taught.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For what you taught is true.
</div>

Is it beginning to sink in that there is a Real You, a Self that you Are
right now that you have been unconscious of, that is being the full
Presence of God, that constitutes a mighty Companion&mdash;a Companion
far greater than any puny little fears you experience&mdash;that is
standing on behalf of your abandoning these flimsy imaginations that
seem to bind you so completely? What Love, again.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Alone, you stand outside your teaching &hellip;
</div>

outside the teaching of your Self &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
and APART from it. But WITH them you must learn that you but
taught YOURSELF&hellip;
</div>

Well, you know what? You&rsquo;re not going to learn that you&rsquo;re
teaching yourself until you become a student, until you&rsquo;re willing
to let Something outside of your piss-ant, personal, authoritative
control of everything.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[He did not read] &hellip; and learned from the conviction you shared
with them.
{: .omit}

This year you will begin to learn&hellip;
</div>

that means that you will find the humility that it takes to
truly listen and abandon the biases you have previously brought to your
listening, to see to it that your learning does not violate the truths
that you have decided are the truth.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This year you will begin to learn, and make learning commensurate with
teaching.
</div>

Now you understand how learning and teaching actually work.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[He did not read] You have chosen this by your own willingness to teach.
{: .omit}

Though you seemed to suffer for it, the joy of teaching will yet be
yours.
</div>

You see, that joy, that &ldquo;A-ha!&rdquo; that your student
experiences will bring you the joy that&rsquo;s inherent in teaching.
And your being the student, as I said, and letting the learning occur,
so that you light up with the joy of Being and teach others through that
joy, that will be yours.

Now the interesting thing that we cannot finish without pointing out is,
that although that week where Paul was doing all the things that were
not what he was supposed to be doing, ended up illuminating the holiness
of the Movements that occurred during that week for those with whom Paul
was involved, even though holiness and spirituality was not the subject
matter.

No matter how mundane the activity you&rsquo;re engaged in, if you are
engaged in it because you have been inspired into the involuntary and
uncontrolled engagement in it, everyone involved will be more aware of
God than you can imagine. And that is the miracle.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Though you seemed to suffer for it, the joy of teaching will yet be
yours. For the joy of teaching is in the LEARNER, who offers it to the
teacher in gratitude, and shares it with him. As you learn, your
gratitude to your Self, Who teaches you what He is, will grow and help
you honor Him. And you will learn His power and strength and purity, and
love Him as His Father does.
</div>

&hellip; your Self.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
His Kingdom has no limits and no end, and there is nothing in Him that
is not perfect and eternal. All this is &hellip;
</div>

Who?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
All this is YOU, and nothing outside of this IS you.
</div>

And you&rsquo;ll have that experience when you let go of this thing
outside of you that you&rsquo;ve been imagining and holding onto, called
the ego-frame of reference, the orphan mentality.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To your most holy Self &hellip;
</div>

you holy Son of God and Daughter of God &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
all praise is due for what you are&hellip;
</div>

I know, you still don&rsquo;t think that&rsquo;s Who you Are. But if
you&rsquo;ll listen to what I&rsquo;m saying and if you will engage in
learning, you will have the experience of it. And that&rsquo;s the
point.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To your most holy Self all praise is due for what you are, and for what
He is Who created you as you are. Sooner or later must everyone bridge
the gap which he imagines exists between his selves. Each one&hellip;
</div>

each one of you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
builds this bridge, which carries him ACROSS the gap as soon as
he is willing to expend some little effort on behalf of bridging it.
</div>

You see? That&rsquo;s the meat and potatoes of it. The meat and potatoes
of it isn&rsquo;t hard work, it&rsquo;s a matter of deciding where
you&rsquo;re going to give your attention and then giving it with
commitment. That simple. That&rsquo;s it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Each one builds this bridge&hellip;
</div>

Nobody else. Oh, don&rsquo;t wait for Maitreya. Don&rsquo;t wait for
anyone else.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Each one builds this bridge&hellip;
</div>

out of his own commitment, out of his own desire to be the holy
Son of God or Daughter of God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Each one builds this bridge, which carries him ACROSS the gap as soon as
he is willing to expend some little effort on behalf of bridging it.
</div>

But listen:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
His little efforts are powerfully supplemented by the strength of
Heaven, and by the united will of all who make Heaven what it is, being
joined within it.
</div>

All the holy Sons and Daughters of God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And so the one who would cross over is literally transported there.
</div>

That&rsquo;s a promise. But you&rsquo;ve got to build the bridge. The
bridge between this self and this Self that you think are somewhere
between your ears, with commitment.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your bridge is builded stronger than you think, and your foot is planted
firmly on it.
</div>

You holy Son of God, you holy Daughter of God. Your foot has to be on
it, because you&rsquo;re the Father of the Prodigal Son or Daughter
Who&rsquo;s gone out to have this fantastic fantasy of being a mortal
and imagining all of it up. But the Self that you Are is what you Are,
not the other.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your bridge is builded stronger than you think, and your foot is planted
firmly on it. Have no fear that the attraction of those who stand on the
other side and wait for you will not draw you safely across.
</div>

That means those Who are already Awake, but it also means all of your
creations.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Have no fear that the attraction of those who stand on the other side
and wait for you will not draw you safely across. For you WILL come
where you would be&hellip;
</div>

and because the Self that you Are is the only Self there is
that is where you would be in spite of the fight you put up against
letting it in, against letting go of what&rsquo;s causing you to feel
limited and suffering.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For you WILL come where you would be, and where your Self awaits you.
</div>

Don&rsquo;t get too conceptual now. Where your Self awaits you is at the
other end of your attention. That&rsquo;s all. Your Self awaits you at
the other end of your attention. The question is: Where are you going to
give your attention?

Good news. Let this be a fantastic week.

[^1]: Mathew 26:42
[^2]: T16.3 The Reward of Teaching

