---
title: Mar 27, 2010
ref: "T16.4 Illusion and Reality of Love"
alink: "/acim/text/16/chap1604/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

Good evening you holy Sons and Daughters of God. It is the
acknowledgement of your holiness, your willingness to embrace it that
actively reconnects you with your Father and sets the scene for
returning to your right Mind or, might I say, letting your right Mind be
returned to you by virtue of your not holding yourself apart from It any
longer.

We&rsquo;ve talked about the fact that you travel with mighty
companions, not the least of which is your Self&mdash;the Holy Spirit.
Not only that, you are companioned with by all of your creations and
they all wait for you on the other side of the bridge, as it were, that
goes across the little gap between illusion and Reality. In fact, they
are mighty enough that they constitute an attraction that will help
bring you across the bridge once you have decided to bring the necessary
amount of self-discipline and determination to cross it and follow
through with commitment.

Now there&rsquo;s a reason you&rsquo;re not on the other side of the
bridge right now. And in order to cross the bridge, you&rsquo;re going
to have to look squarely at it so that you may release it, because it is
the energizing&mdash;the reinforcement of it&mdash;that has kept you
ignorant of your Father and of your Self.

This something is called &ldquo;The special hate relationship.&rdquo;

I know we&rsquo;ve been talking about the beautifulness of you as the
holy Son or Daughter of God. And there&rsquo;s a reason for it. Not only
is it true of you, not only is it the truth about you, the knowledge of
it is what gives you the impetus, as it were, to reach for it, to be
willing to re-embrace it.

Now, there&rsquo;s only one &hellip; there is only one special hate
relationship. And you&rsquo;re likely to be surprised at who it&rsquo;s
with. It&rsquo;s with God. Strong words &hellip; special hate
relationship with your Father? It&rsquo;s not too strong a word.

When you decided you would rather see things your way, when you decided
you would rather define what things are and you got a divorce from your
Father, you stood in flat denial of His Place in your
existence&mdash;the fact that He actually is the Source of your Being.
You also separated yourself from your Birthright, which caused you, as
we have discussed many times, to immediately experience fear and guilt.

Now, you took on the challenge that fear and guilt represented. You
didn&rsquo;t take it as your sanity telling you, you were in unreal
territory, that you were doing something impossible to do &hellip; and
to stop. And so fear and guilt became forever present with you as a part
of existence.

Now, fear of what? What would the fear be about? There&rsquo;s only one
thing at this point that the fear could be about and that would be that
you would be found out that you had denied your Father. That in fact,
you were in a hate relationship with Him because you said, &ldquo;I have
nothing to do with Him. I want nothing to do with Him. I want nothing to
do with whatever it is I might deserve in terms of inheritance from Him
because I want to experience my independence.&rdquo;

When you&rsquo;re in denial of your Source, and subsequently in denial
of who you Are because you lose the direct experience of who you Are and
your divine Birthright, that is an act of hate. Self-denial is the most
intense form of delusion and it has negative effects.

So, let&rsquo;s go into the book. New section:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
ILLUSION AND REALITY OF LOVE[^1]

Be not afraid to look upon the special hate relationship&hellip;
</div>

Now this might seem to be an abrupt shift, after talking for awhile
about the holy Son of God that you Are and the mighty companions and
your creations and so on and so forth, and the availability you have of
the holy instant to access your holiness, to access the direct
experience of the Father and to come back into your right Mind. But this
step is the next step once you decide to engage in the holy instant,
once you decide to engage in reclaiming your divinity&mdash;this must be
looked at.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Be not afraid to look upon the special hate relationship for freedom
lies in looking at it.
</div>

If you don&rsquo;t look at it, you won&rsquo;t realize it&rsquo;s there.
You don&rsquo;t go around thinking, &ldquo;I hate God &hellip; I hate
God!&rdquo; But the fact that you won&rsquo;t let God direct your paths
on an ongoing daily basis in every instance, is a demonstration of the
fact that you&rsquo;re in an oppositional relationship. It&rsquo;s that
simple.

So, you&rsquo;re unaware of it. You can&rsquo;t possibly come Home as
long as you&rsquo;re unaware of it. Which is why we&rsquo;ve been
talking &hellip; and talking and talking about coming Home, and how to
come Home, and the steps. And now we&rsquo;ve come to this place where
the step is to acknowledge that you Are a holy Son of God.

Well, this experience of dissonance caused by fear and guilt, cause you
to not like yourself. So a secondary aspect of this special hate
relationship, which is the only one there is with God, is that you end
up hating yourself.

Once again you think, &ldquo;Well, as a general rule, I don&rsquo;t go
around hating myself. As a general rule, the majority of my life
I&rsquo;ve liked myself. It&rsquo;s only when I&rsquo;ve been depressed
that I haven&rsquo;t liked myself.&rdquo;

But let me ask you this: &ldquo;Do you like yourself, you holy Son of
God? Do you like yourself, you holy Daughter of God?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Oh-h, there ya go again, bringing that up! Well, I don&rsquo;t
mind embracing in my head the idea that I&rsquo;m a holy Son of God, but
no, I don&rsquo;t want it to be public! I don&rsquo;t want to claim it
and live it and Be it!&rdquo;

&ldquo;&hellip; Oh, so you don&rsquo;t like yourself, huh?&rdquo;

That&rsquo;s what that means. Don&rsquo;t be afraid to look at it. If
you don&rsquo;t want to know of your holiness, then be aware of it.
Because in being aware of it, instead of unconscious of it, you have a
choice available to you. And so you are further ahead of the game.

It&rsquo;s essential for you to know that you have a choice in order to
cross the bridge, in order to Wake up, in order to come back into your
right Mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Be not afraid to look upon the special hate relationship for freedom
lies in looking at it. It would be impossible not to know the meaning of
love, except for this. For the special love relationship, in which the
meaning of love is LOST, is undertaken solely to offset the hate, but
NOT to let it go.
</div>

You see?

&ldquo;&hellip; Oh No, I&rsquo;m not gonna let it go if it means I have
to acknowledge that I&rsquo;m holy&mdash;I&rsquo;m a holy Son of God
&hellip; I don&rsquo;t want to let it go. No, I&rsquo;m enjoying the
intensity and the high I get from attempting to overcome the impossible
and in some ways, fool myself into believing that I&rsquo;m
accomplishing it. No-no!&rdquo;

But &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your salvation will rise clearly before your open eyes as you look on
this. You cannot LIMIT hate. The special love relationship will not
offset it&hellip;
</div>

it can&rsquo;t be changed, it can&rsquo;t be limited, it
can&rsquo;t be minimized &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; but will merely drive it underground and out of sight. It is
essential to bring it INTO sight, and to make no attempt to hide it. For
it is the attempt to balance hate with love that MAKES love meaningless
to you. The extent of the split that lies in this you do not realize.
And UNTIL you do, the split will remain unrecognized, and therefore
unhealed.
</div>

So, as you move across the bridge, this is the last thing to be
healed&mdash;it&rsquo;s the last thing to be healed because it&rsquo;s
the first unhealed act you engaged in. Your dissociation from the Father
and from your conscious experience of your own holiness was your first
act in stepping away from the conscious experience of Reality. The
undoing of it therefore, is going to be the last thing you do as you
return Home.

And so, although it might not seem a pleasant thing to do, especially
when we&rsquo;ve had such wonderful talks about your holiness, it
nevertheless must be looked at clearly.

Now, what&rsquo;s &ldquo;a special love relationship?&rdquo; Well,
I&rsquo;m going to put it this way: A special love relationship is a
relationship that covers up a special hate relationship.

And what&rsquo;s a special hate relationship &hellip; humanly speaking?
It&rsquo;s any relationship you have with a Brother or Sister where you
haven&rsquo;t engaged in the two-step, moved into the holy instant and
desired to Know the holy truth about your Brother or Sister. And then
having been infilled with it, relating to your Brother or Sister from
the new vantage point revealed to you&mdash;a vantage point that is
yours because you decided to join with the Father.

Now, as along as you are pretending to be an orphan, in an orphanage,
having an orphan mindset, all of your relationships will be unconscious
relationships. And what I mean by that is, that you will be having a
relationship with someone Real, but you will be unconscious of who they
really Are. Why? Because in the orphan mindset, your Brother or Sister
is a means to an end, not a Brother or Sister. Not Family. Not someone
sharing the same Birthright&mdash;the same holy Birthright as you.

Being a means to an end, all relationships are there to be used&mdash;to
be used to your benefit. And I&rsquo;m going to say, to be used to help
you forget the hate you&rsquo;re feeling for yourself.

Therefore, you will do anything &hellip; you will use your Brother or
Sister in any way necessary to cover up the fact that you don&rsquo;t
like yourself.

Every act you engage in is an attempt to overcome the
fact&mdash;temporary though it might be&mdash;the fact that you
don&rsquo;t like yourself, the fact that you don&rsquo;t feel good about
yourself. You will use your Brothers and Sisters to build yourself up
into something worthwhile &hellip; you hope. That is your goal.

Now, what does that mean? It means that you&rsquo;re seeing your Brother
or Sister as an object, as I said, &ldquo;a means to an end.&rdquo; So
you&rsquo;re denying their holiness as well. And you know what? You miss
connection with them, just as they miss connection with you because
they&rsquo;re seeing you as &ldquo;a means to an end.&rdquo;

And so, existence becomes a dance between people who are not connected
with each other, who do the best they can to fool each other into
believing that they&rsquo;re confirming each other&rsquo;s worth and
integrity and value. And all the time that this is going on, not one of
you have stopped to do the two-step so that you might ask of the Father,
&ldquo;What is the truth here about my Brother? Show me my
Brother&rsquo;s holiness.&rdquo;

It is amazing that you all get along as well as you do because of the
usury nature of relationships as you are practicing them.

If you don&rsquo;t see &hellip; if you don&rsquo;t dare to look at the
fact that the way you are relating to each other as orphans, from an
orphan mindset, is cruel and harsh and mean-spirited and destructive,
you are not likely to have the impetus necessary to step on across the
bridge &hellip; to reach for the mighty companions Who are with you, as
well as all of your creations and the Father Who wish for you to come
back into your sanity&mdash;your right Mind&mdash;where all
relationships are holy relationships.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The symbols of hate against the symbols of love play out a conflict
which does not exist.
</div>

Well, what does it mean &ldquo;the symbols of hate and the symbols of
love?&rdquo;

Well, as orphans relating to each other as objects, you act in loving
ways and you act in unloving ways.

Behaving lovingly is not being the Presence of Love.

And so all of your behavior constitutes symbols of love, mutually-agreed
definitions about what love is and mutually-agreed definitions about
what hate is&mdash;both of which are false because love is not love and
love can be interpreted as hate.

In other words, if you have mutually-agreed-upon definitions of hate and
someone comes along and confronts you with the truth&mdash;the real
truth about yourself&mdash;and says, &ldquo;You&rsquo;re the holy Son of
God, come join me in the conscious experience of your holiness.&rdquo;
&hellip; Oh-boy, that is an unkind thing.

The one who Knows the truth, standing with the Father, says,
&ldquo;You&rsquo;re indulging in hate relationships, even your special
love relationship is a cover-up for your special hate
relationship.&rdquo;

You say, &ldquo;This can&rsquo;t possibly be the truth. This is a lie.
You are misleading me. You are hating me &hellip; because if I were to
believe you, I would think I was insane!&rdquo; And the one Who Knows
the truth, gently says, &ldquo;But you are insane, but you are not
seeing things clearly and there is a clear way to see it and I will show
you the clear way to see it.

But, no, this doesn&rsquo;t add up with the mutually-agreed-upon
definitions. And so it&rsquo;s misinterpreted.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The symbols of hate against the symbols of love play out a conflict
which does not exist.
</div>

It&rsquo;s not happening in Reality. It&rsquo;s only happening in minds
misunderstanding.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The symbols of hate against the symbols of love play out a conflict
which does not exist. For symbols stand for something ELSE, and the
symbol of love is without meaning if love is everything. You will go
through this last undoing &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; this undoing of looking at the special hate relationship and
the special love relationship, to see that they&rsquo;re both hateful so
that it&rsquo;s clear to you that there&rsquo;s no value in holding onto
them at all.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You will go through this last undoing quite unharmed, and will at last
emerge as &hellip;
</div>

what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; yourself.
</div>

You will come back into your right Mind. Your right Mind will come back
into you, you might say. And there you, the real You will be.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Be not unwilling now, you are too near, and you will cross the bridge in
perfect safety, translated quietly from war to peace. For the illusion
of love will NEVER satisfy, but its reality, which awaits you on the
other side, will give you everything.
</div>

Remember, I said the other side of the bridge is on the other end of
your attention. So we&rsquo;re not once again talking about going on an
internal witch-hunt to find out all the awful things about yourself. But
we are talking about taking an honest look so that you can clearly see
that as long as you&rsquo;re practicing special relationships, as long
as you are engaging in them, nurturing them and reinforcing them, you
are keeping yourself ignorant of who you Are. You are keeping yourself
unconscious of the Kingdom of Heaven that you&rsquo;re in the middle of,
and you are bound to the trinity of sin, sickness and death.

If you&rsquo;re looking at this squarely, you&rsquo;ll see that it
doesn&rsquo;t make sense and that it is at least worthwhile for you to
make a determination to cross the bridge.

Now, crossing the bridge is not a matter of growth. It&rsquo;s not a
process of becoming anything. Remember, you are neither behind the point
of perfection nor advancing toward it. You are at that point and must
understand yourself therefrom. That&rsquo;s a journey without distance.
But it&rsquo;s a giving of your attention where it&rsquo;s essential for
it to be in order for you to be sane.

So as we read, don&rsquo;t imagine that this is going to be a terrible
amount of work, it&rsquo;s going to take a long time. [snaps fingers]
The holy instant &hellip; that&rsquo;s it! Hesitate &hellip; stop dead
in your tracks &hellip; abandon your conditioned responses. Be still and
say, &ldquo;Father, what is the truth here? Holy Spirit, what is the
truth here? My Guide, what is the truth here?&rdquo; And then listen for
it &hellip; genuinely, sincerely be the presence of mind that has no
other agenda than to have the truth register.

So we&rsquo;re still talking about something simple. The reason
you&rsquo;re not on the other side of the bridge is because you still
like being an orphan and you don&rsquo;t see how awful it is, you
don&rsquo;t see how hateful it is, you don&rsquo;t see how destructive
it is. The destructiveness just seems to be a challenge for you to take
on, with an assurance that comes from somewhere telling you that you can
take it on and succeed&mdash;when it isn&rsquo;t true.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Be not unwilling now, you are too near&hellip;
</div>

you really are too near &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
and you will cross the bridge in perfect safety, translated
quietly from war to peace.
</div>

You could say also, translated quietly from &ldquo;getting&rdquo; to
&ldquo;giving.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For the illusion of love will NEVER satisfy, but its reality, which
awaits you on the other side, will give you everything.
</div>

&hellip; on the other side, at the other end of your attention.
That&rsquo;s all. Don&rsquo;t think so much in terms of space,
&ldquo;Well, is it a short bridge or is it a long bridge? How far is it
to the other side?&rdquo; No, it&rsquo;s just to the other end of your
attention.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The special love relationship is an attempt to limit the destructive
effects of hate by finding a haven in the storm of guilt.
</div>

Um-m &hellip; dramatic words, but they&rsquo;re just describing the
state of being as an orphan, where guilt and fear go hand-in-hand, are
ever-present and seem to be the impetus for expressions of will that
have the securing of safety and success as their goal. Seems rather
reasonable to you, doesn&rsquo;t it? Sure, but it&rsquo;s not.
It&rsquo;s a process that keeps you unconscious, because it never gets
you outside the orphanage. It never even suggests that you look to the
horizon.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The special love relationship is an attempt to limit the destructive
effects of hate by finding a haven in the storm of guilt.
</div>

A soft, caressing, nurturing place, where both of you have found ways to
provide each other with some form of encouragement that allows you to
let down and not energize your fears so much. You&rsquo;re together to
get, and you demand of each other to give, &ldquo;Give me more, give me
more! I&rsquo;m nervous, I&rsquo;m upset &hellip; give me more!
I&rsquo;m afraid &hellip; comfort me!&rdquo;

And then because the other provides some attention that you define as
comforting, you set down some of your fear and experience more peace.
And you fool yourself into believing that your lover has comforted you.
And you fool your lover into believing that he or she has comforted you.
And both of you are still in the mist of delusion and nothing has been
accomplished except a temporary lull&mdash;a mutual process of fooling
each other.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The special love relationship is an attempt to limit the destructive
effects of hate by finding a haven in the storm of guilt.
</div>

And I&rsquo;m going to add: Without making any attempts to leave it
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
the storm of guilt. It makes no attempt to rise ABOVE the
storm, into the sunlight.
</div>

I would say: It makes no attempt to walk out of the orphanage and onto
the horizon and beyond the horizon.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
On the contrary, it emphasizes guilt OUTSIDE the haven by attempting to
build barricades against it, and keep within them.
</div>

&ldquo;Um-m, you&rsquo;re my salvation, you&rsquo;re the one who gives
me peace. You make me feel secure. I&rsquo;m not going to look outside
of you for my good and I&rsquo;m not going to let you look outside of me
for your good. We will imprison each other in the security of the caring
that we&rsquo;re willing to extend to each other in order to make us
feel some measure of peace &hellip;&rdquo;

Wow&hellip; get, get, get! No love&hellip; no love!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The special love relationship is not perceived as a value in itself, but
as a place of safety from which hatred is split off, and kept apart.
</div>

Well, you know what? There may be a certain degree or level of comfort
that two lovers can achieve, but if the trinity of sin, sickness and
death prevails then no security, no safety has been achieved and the
victory of love is a hollow victory.

And I&rsquo;m telling you and have been telling you that your Birthright
is more than that. I could say you deserve more than that, but
it&rsquo;s a matter of your Birthright, it&rsquo;s a matter of Who you
Are and the fact that as the holy Son of God or the holy Daughter of God
you already are eternal. And it&rsquo;s your Birthright to be
experiencing that without the so-called threat&mdash;the imagined
threat&mdash;of sin, sickness and death. That is no part of the
conscious experience of your Birthright and it&rsquo;s time for you to
be finished with it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The special love partner is acceptable only as long as he serves this
purpose. Hatred can enter, and indeed is welcome in SOME aspects of the
relationship, but it is still held together by the illusion of love.
</div>

Illusions holding each other together, or one illusion holding another
illusion at bay, it&rsquo;s still insanity. It&rsquo;s still not your
Birthright. It&rsquo;s still not you in your whole Mind. It&rsquo;s not
the holy Son of God that you Are at this moment, even though
you&rsquo;re not experiencing it in its Totality. But you will not shift
from the partial experience of it into its Totality if nobody points out
to you where illusion is happening, where a special hate relationship is
happening, where a special love relationship is happening that
doesn&rsquo;t constitute sanity at all.

If no one points it out to you, you won&rsquo;t look elsewhere,
you&rsquo;ll just work within the already established parameters.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Hatred can enter, and indeed is welcome in SOME aspects of the
relationship&hellip;
</div>

After all, a little bit of it invigorates the relationship, brings some
life to it, gets you closer and after all, making up is so wonderful.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Hatred can enter, and indeed is welcome in SOME aspects of the
relationship, but it is still held together by the illusion of love. If
the illusion goes, the relationship is broken or becomes unsatisfying on
the grounds of disillusionment.
</div>

Disillusionment simply means: That the illusions you were under have
been shown for what they are&mdash;illusions.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Love is NOT an illusion. It is a fact. Where disillusionment is
possible, there was not love but hate. For hate IS an illusion, and what
can change was NEVER love. It is certain that those who select certain
ones as partners in any aspect of living, and use them for any purpose
which they would not share with others, are trying to LIVE with guilt
rather than DIE of it.
</div>

You see? You use your special relationships to find ways to live
comfortably in the uncomfortable state of guilt by providing a
distraction from it. Um-m, we&rsquo;ll say, a sweet distraction from it.
But the sweet distraction is an illusion also. So you try &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; to LIVE with guilt rather than DIE of it.
</div>

Well, here&rsquo;s the thing: If you didn&rsquo;t have the sweet
illusion to make you comfortable in the experience of guilt, you would
be just simply faced with guilt. Guilt is unyielding. Guilt
doesn&rsquo;t give the benefit of the doubt. Guilt is harsh. Guilt is
cruel. Guilt is mean. To live with it would be to die. But if you are
willing to face it, you will realize, without the cover-up of the sweet
special love relationship, you will see it for what it is and you will
make a choice. You won&rsquo;t die of it, because in the honest
appraisal of what it truly is you will make a choice. [chucks] You will
get across that bridge. You will find it justifiable to hesitate, become
still, ask the Father or the Holy Spirit, &ldquo;What is the truth
here?,&rdquo; and become undefended enough and uncontrolling enough to
let yourself be filled from some place other than your best judgments.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is the choice they see.
</div>

You know&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
to LIVE with guilt rather than DIE of it.

And love, to them, is only an escape from death. They seek it
desperately, but not in the peace in which it would gladly come quietly
TO them.

They seek it desperately, but not in the peace in which it
would gladly come quietly TO them.
</div>

You see? It&rsquo;s the difference between getting and letting.
It&rsquo;s the difference between controlling and allowing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And when they find the fear of death is still upon them, the love
relationship LOSES the illusion that it is what it is not. For then the
barricades against it are broken, fear rushes in and hatred triumphs.
</div>

&ldquo;Oh, please &hellip; give me the sweetness of a special
relationship to undo hatred&rsquo;s triumph.&rdquo; You see? And so you
scramble again, instead of looking at it squarely and saying,
&ldquo;There has to be another way to look at this.&rdquo; To have
enough humility to shut up and ask for help from Something outside
yourself. That&rsquo;s the way you undo the divorce. That&rsquo;s the
way you start across the bridge &hellip; to where? . . the other end of
your attention.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There are no triumphs of love. Only hate is concerned with the "triumph
of love" at all. The illusion of love CAN triumph over the illusion of
hate, but always at the price of making BOTH illusions.
</div>

Meaning that you&rsquo;re still trapped, you&rsquo;re still stuck. The
trinity: sin, sickness and death still governs.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As long as the illusion of hatred lasts, so long will love be an
illusion to you.
</div>

So &hellip; 

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; long as the illusion of hatred lasts&hellip;
</div>

well, remember now, your Brothers and Sisters didn&rsquo;t
cause the hatred you feel. No circumstances out there caused it. And not
even a flaw in your character caused it. The illusion of hatred is being
experienced for a simple reason. You&rsquo;ve said, &ldquo;Father, I
want a divorce. Father, I&rsquo;m going to ignore you. Father, I am
disinheriting myself, not only of all the abundance that&rsquo;s mine,
but I&rsquo;m disinheriting myself from my awareness of Who I really
Am.&rdquo; As long as that is in place, hatred lasts&mdash;the illusion
of hatred lasts.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As long as the illusion of hatred lasts, so long will love be an
illusion to you. And then the only choice which remains possible is
which illusion you prefer.
</div>

Well, today you&rsquo;ll prefer a little bit of hate, tomorrow
you&rsquo;ll prefer a little bit of love, and you play both sides of the
fence depending upon what it will get for you in terms of securing a
so-called safety and security from sin, sickness and death. That&rsquo;s
a security and safety you can&rsquo;t ever actually have until you
abandon the orphanage. Until you reclaim your holiness by saying,
&ldquo;Hey, you know what? Might not be so bad to be holy, especially if
I already am. I am going to clearly look at the awfulness of hate and
the awfulness of special love relationships and I&rsquo;m going to be
willing to look at the destructiveness of them and to see that there are
no circumstances under which they can be construed as constructive and
therefore my intelligence tells me that there&rsquo;s no profit
whatsoever in pursuing them or engaging with them or nurturing them any
further. I will, with commitment and determination, cross the bridge.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There IS no conflict in the choice between truth and illusion.
</div>

And that&rsquo;s a very important point. Don&rsquo;t imagine that this
is going to be a horrendous process.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There IS no conflict in the choice between truth and illusion. Seen in
THESE terms, no one would hesitate. But conflict enters the instant the
choice seems to be one between ILLUSIONS, for this choice does not
matter.
</div>

Why doesn&rsquo;t it matter? Because the choice has no effect&mdash;a
choice of one illusion over another illusion is still illusion. Nothing
is accomplished. No healing is accomplished. No return of sanity occurs.
And it&rsquo;s the futility of choosing between illusions, and the fact
that you have been choosing between illusions that needs to become very
clear in order for it to be utterly logical to you to see the wisdom of
deciding for crossing the bridge.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Where one choice is as dangerous as the other, the decision MUST be one
of despair.

Where one choice is as dangerous as the other, the decision
MUST be one of despair.
</div>

Despair you&rsquo;re already familiar with, because you&rsquo;re already
making choices between one that&rsquo;s as dangerous as another. And
you&rsquo;re ready for more than that &hellip; you holy Son of God
&hellip; you holy Daughter of God. You are ready for more than that.

This week, pay attention to how you&rsquo;re behaving. Pay attention to
whether you&rsquo;re leveraging your Brother for this, that or the other
thing. Maybe you&rsquo;re just leveraging that one to feel better or
happier because you really care as well as because you want to be
important to that one&mdash;you want to get something out of it. Watch
what kind of trips you lay on them, whether they&rsquo;re guilt trips or
trips of honor&mdash;bestowing honor on him or her, again, so that you
can get something.

You know what? Stop looking for a messiah so that you might give your
allegiance and follow him or her. After all, you don&rsquo;t want to
sidetrack someone from his or her divinity by trying to prove to them
that they are a messiah that they&rsquo;re not, so that you might do a
couple of things: Maybe rub shoulders with that one and be seen as
important or maybe get that one to do something for you, to lift you out
of your problems without your having to build the bridge yourself. You
see?

There are many ways to be unkind to your Brother. There are many ways to
express hate. And even love is one of them. Not real Love, but special
love.

Crossing the bridge is the point. Remember that. I love you all.

[^1]: T16.4 Illusion and Reality of Love

