---
title: Apr 3, 2010
ref: "T16.4 Illusion and Reality of Love"
alink: "/acim/text/16/chap1604/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

Well, for almost everyone on the globe it&rsquo;s Easter Sunday, even
though where Paul is sitting it is still Saturday evening. And so, I
guess we could say this is my &ldquo;Easter Message,&rdquo; but then,
every time we talk it&rsquo;s an Easter message, isn&rsquo;t it? Every
time we talk we talk about emerging from the tomb, except that
we&rsquo;ve been calling it &ldquo;emerging from the orphanage,&rdquo;
emerging from an overwhelming state of ignorance of who you Are and what
you Are&mdash;an ignorance which blinds you. And one could say, whereas,
before you were dead and after you emerge, you are alive.

It could be better put that: before you were unconscious of the truth,
but now you are conscious of the truth.

This crossing the bridge from death to life, from ignorance to
enlightenment is our total subject, isn&rsquo;t it? And it has been.

Now, at the present time we&rsquo;ve been talking about the special hate
relationship. And you know what? It just happens to relate to Easter.

Something we haven&rsquo;t talked much about is, that when you decided
to get a divorce from your Father and become an independent
agent&mdash;an independent causative, authoritative mover and cause of
things&mdash;it has by now become clear to you that you lost not only
the experience of your Source, and therefore, the experience of who you
Were, you, as we&rsquo;ve discussed, immediately became aware of fear
and guilt.

But the thing we haven&rsquo;t talked much about is that when that
happened, a shift occurred. You shifted from what I&rsquo;m going to
call, &ldquo;Mind-identification&rdquo; to
&ldquo;body-identification.&rdquo; Before this happened&mdash;before the
divorce&mdash;you experienced yourself as that infinite Mind in which
all experience of Creation and Being and Life was going on. You did not
find yourself in any form. And yet, all forms of Creation were
inseparable from you and were part of the infinitude of your Being.
Again, though, you were not captured by or held within any of them. Your
infiniteness was inseparable from the meaning of
wholeness&mdash;completeness.

But when you got this divorce and insisted on it, you found that you
lost the infinite view and you became identified with what you call your
body. And you immediately perceived everything around you as
bodies&mdash;a body of a tree, a body of a cat, a body of a brother, of
a sister, a body of a planet. You saw everything as bodies. And because
your experience of yourself as a body was inseparable from fear and
guilt, fear and guilt were associated with all other forms.

And so, you immediately, as we have discussed, became
defensive&mdash;self-protective. But mind you, the thing we
haven&rsquo;t discussed at any length was the fact that this that needed
to be protected&mdash;called self-protection&mdash;was a body.

Everything you did, all of the conclusions you came to, all of the
reasonings, all of the agreements, mutually developed agreements that
all of you came up with, were colored by the fearfulness&mdash;the
undependability of form. Your fear was all-pervasive.

So, what happened? You used your body for two purposes: self-defense,
self-preservation. And you also used your body against other
people&rsquo;s bodies. And so, your body became your salvation and your
downfall. After all, if you could use your body well enough to protect
yourself, it was your salvation. But if another used his or her body
well enough to injure you or undermine your physical well being, then
your body became your downfall, not your salvation.

Now the reason you need to understand this is because part of crossing
the bridge that we&rsquo;re talking about, part of coming back Home
involves shifting from body-identification to Mind-identification. It
means abandoning self-protection by guarding your body with your body
and leaning into the holy instant, which is an entirely mental act in an
entirely mental environment.

When you engage in the two-step and move into the holy instant, you are
in Mind and identifying as Mind no matter how briefly it might be. And
here is where God&rsquo;s laws prevail. Here is where transformation
occurs. Here is where healing occurs.

Now, when we talked last week, and we talked about the awfulness of the
special hate relationship and the fact that everyone employs it who
isn&rsquo;t Awake yet, you could have construed what I was saying to
apply only to what you thought, to what you are perceiving in your mind
or what you are misperceiving. But it&rsquo;s all mental.

What you need to be aware of is how emphatically and committedly you use
the body as identity in your behavior towards others and the behavior
you demand from others. This is detrimental. This is destructive. It is
destructive in the sense that it absolutely distracts you from the
willingness to move into the holy instant, to move into your Mind, you
might say, where the integrity and wholeness of your Being can be
revealed to you as what? A mental experience &hellip; but a mental
experience that is so all-embracing that it causes you to be able to
completely relax and let go of physical defensiveness. And in the
absence of physical defense and the feeling of the need for it, physical
healing can occur and your behavior toward your Brothers and Sisters can
change. And so you would say, social change occurs.

Now, when I was apparently born, it was very important for my presence
to be perceived as the emergence of a body&mdash;a physical
organism&mdash;because it was necessary for my presence to be able to be
linked to the House of David in the Old Testament, so that the prophecy
of my coming could be validated by those who saw themselves literally as
nothing more than bodies themselves.

But you know what? It has been said, that when John baptized me, I came
into the full awareness of Who I was and Who my Source was. But I will
tell you, that it was never absent from my Mind. And I was always taking
guidance from the Father, for the purpose of fulfilling purpose. And
therefore, at no point in my lifetime, then, did I think I was a body.
At no point was I unconscious of myself as the fullness of Mind.

This is important. It&rsquo;s important to understand because today
history and teachings regarding my life and regarding Christianity have
carried forward the idea that I was a body&mdash;God became man &hellip;
God became a mortal &hellip; God became someone physical, organismic,
just like you.

Well, it&rsquo;s time to abandon that idea. It&rsquo;s time to know that
that isn&rsquo;t true and that therefore, in all the time I&rsquo;ve
been speaking with you and we&rsquo;ve been going through the Course, I
have been helping you to learn that you were never a physical organism
anymore than I was. And that you, all the time you have been believing
you are a physical organism, a body, you have been the full
representation of Mind&mdash;the Father&rsquo;s Mind, the Father&rsquo;s
Will, the embodiment of God&mdash;just like me and that you have been
Mind, consciousness, and not a body.

You see, initially to get everyone&rsquo;s attention it needed to seem
as though the divine became utterly, awfully human. But because it was
divine, the awfulness of humanity wasn&rsquo;t fully expressed or even
minimally expressed by me. And so, inspiration was possible.

Now, for 2,000 years many of you have had &hellip; have given attention,
still believing that you&rsquo;re a body and that I was a body and that
it was important for me to have been a body&mdash;for God to have become
man.

No. It&rsquo;s time to shift: rather than everyone believing that God
became man, it&rsquo;s time for man to become aware of and embrace his
holiness&mdash;your holiness. It&rsquo;s time because it&rsquo;s only in
this way that you&rsquo;re going to abandon the body-identification and
the ongoing belief that your Salvation is physical salvation, and that
perhaps your physical salvation will come at the expense of someone
else&rsquo;s physical well being.

Got to get past this. We have to get past this. Getting past it is part
of abandoning the special hate relationship. The only reason that the
body is being misused as an object and as that which you think you are,
is because you are insisting on denying your holiness, denying your
present divinity. And that&rsquo;s part of the special hate
relationship.

You see, in the beginning it was like God came to man. Well, it&rsquo;s
not the beginning anymore. And you are all mature enough to accept the
idea that it&rsquo;s time for man to become God-like, for man to be
lifted up, not out of an organismic reality, but out of the belief that
you are organisms. You see?

What is it as you go through your weeks, that distracts you most from
the holy instant? Taking care of your body. Take care of its aches and
pains. Making it feel better. Taking care of it well. Defending yourself
if necessary against a predator, whether it&rsquo;s a human or an
animal.

And so, you engage in using your body to protect your body instead of
realizing that what is called for is the two-step: the hesitation, the
asking, &ldquo;What is the truth here?&rdquo; And then listening and
making room for the infilling of truth that will bring you into the holy
instant, where God&rsquo;s laws prevail and clarity or healing or
resolution can occur without once employing the body for or against
anything.

This is very important. It is the message of Easter.

So, in the minds of some I was a rabble-rouser. In the minds of some I
was a threat to the political system. In the minds of some, I was a
threat to the established religious order. In the minds of some I was a
Savior. You see? A Savior who could save them from the vicissitude of
human existence, relieve them [snaps fingers] like magic from doing what
we&rsquo;re talking about doing right now, which is finding the
willingness to see yourself new and to make commitment to that new
vantage point, that new self-perception, and then
changing&mdash;allowing yourself to be changed by the new perspective.

And so, what happened? Self-protection came into play. And bodies acted
against bodies and in some cases some bodies acted on my behalf against
the bodies of those who would have harmed me. And those who were afraid
took action against my body to harm me and remove the distraction from
established order.

So, there we have it: the special hate relationship trickled down, you
might say, into each individual&rsquo;s self-perception in which guilt
and fear are inseparably and forever present as long as you&rsquo;re
claiming to be an orphan. And the belief that the only solution to the
threat is to impact the body of the one causing the distress to the
point where either that one will stop being distressing&mdash;change his
behavior&mdash;or die and no longer be a threat.

So, you know what? I could ask, figuratively speaking, &ldquo;How many
people did you crucify this last week? How many people did you see as a
body and did you respond to as a body, so as to coerce them into better
behavior, or maybe even punch them in the shoulder or the face, or knock
them down and have a fist fight or a wrestling match to get them under
control? How many of you dealt with your Brothers and Sisters as though
they were bodies rather than the Presence of Mind, which is the Mind of
God, the Holy Spirit?&rdquo;

If you did that, you may know that you were not seeing yourself as the
holy Son of God, and your behavior hasn&rsquo;t changed yet. And the
call for change is still present. The call of Easter is still viable and
active today in your lives. And that&rsquo;s what choosing for the holy
instant means.

Now, there are those around you who think they&rsquo;re bodies and who
think you&rsquo;re a body and who think they need to get control of you.
Or they think that you&rsquo;re the body of a Savior and they need you
to save them, or they need to convince you that you are a Savior, when
that&rsquo;s not where you&rsquo;re at. And you have to find a way to
deal with those actions and beliefs without dying in the process
&hellip; without being &hellip; without accepting the invitation to
identify yourself as a body and react as a body defensively, and instead
practice the two-step.

Do you see why this is so important? I keep saying, as you go through
your daily life, ask, &ldquo;What does this mean? What does that mean?
What does the other thing mean? What needs to be known here? What is my
appropriate action? And why is the action that you tell me, appropriate,
when my conditioning as a body says something entirely different?&rdquo;
You see?

It&rsquo;s important because your constant inquiry, your constant
curiosity to know what the truth is here, is what disengages you from
your habit of body-identification and behavior directed from your body
to the bodies of others for purposes of control. It all goes
hand-in-hand.

Now, I said that I knew all along that I was Mind. I knew all along my
conscious experience of Being was not altered in any way from the
Father&rsquo;s conscious experience of Being as the infinite Mind that
is what causes all of Creation.

So, in spite of the many movies about the crucifixion and resurrection,
I did not suffer because I was never at any moment held in the belief
that I was in a body and that the body that everyone called, Jesus, was
more special than the wood the cross was made of or the rocks on the
ground or the trees on the horizon or the sky or the clouds or any of
Creation. That body, recognizable as me, is not more special in
identifying the wholeness of my Being than any other manifestation of
life.

So I was not bound in it. And as I&rsquo;ve said before, during what
looked like a crucifixion I simply removed myself and observed from a
hillside nearby.

Would you call that an out-of-body experience? Well, you would if
we&rsquo;re talking about somebody who thinks they&rsquo;re a body and
then temporarily they remove themselves from the body. No, I just
shifted my attention to another equally important location and allowed
the unfolding of events, which would play a critical role in the mind of
mankind, to unfold.

When it was over and this body that everybody believed they had
crucified was moved into the tomb, I didn&rsquo;t go in there. I
continued, we&rsquo;ll say, to relax and not think too much because
there was nothing to think about. There was only the Movement of Spirit,
there was only the Movement of Divinity occurring, having its impact on
human consciousness globally, not just locally. Because, mind you, all
of this involves the breaking down of the orphan mindset, the breaking
down of the belief that there is an orphanage and the breaking down of
the belief that man is what he thinks he is &hellip; not more.

And so, you might say, I was patient. In this day-and-age you would say:
You would think that if you were in those circumstances there would be
much to think about, there would be much planning to do. You see? What
would you say when you came out of the tomb? Blah, blah, blah, you know
&hellip; be prepared &hellip; have your script ready &hellip;
don&rsquo;t mislead anyone. You see? Busy, busy, busy &hellip; thinking,
thinking, thinking, and very little peace in which one could feel the
Breeze, the Breeze of the Movement of Creation having its gentle but
profound effect in the consciousness of mankind.

And so, in my ongoing, undisturbed conscious experience of Being as
Mind, I waited until the third day and then I simply shifted my
attention back to what was the appropriate place for me to be from and
came forth from the tomb.

Now, that was called &ldquo;the resurrection.&rdquo; That was called
&ldquo;coming back to life.&rdquo; That was what you might call, the
reinstatement of the truth that seemed to have been disturbed and
effected by bodies acting against bodies. But it was really the
uninterrupted Movement of this Process whereby the truth dawns in human
consciousness. That&rsquo;s all. It looked that way. But the way it
looked is not what was happening. Love was being expressed and embodied
in a manner that had indelible impact &hellip; indelible impact &hellip;
indelible healing benefit.

So now, why am I saying all of this? I&rsquo;m saying it because you
must know that when you are still living in a world where it&rsquo;s
easy for you to believe you are a body and where those around you
believe they are bodies and that their best and only means of dealing
with you involves manipulating you as a body, there is a way for you not
to be affected, debilitated or destroyed. And the way is to abandon the
orphanage. It&rsquo;s that simple.

You have to abandon the mindset of independence in which fear and guilt
and self-hate abide without interruption. That&rsquo;s how you get out
of it. You don&rsquo;t become a better body, able to control other
bodies better. You don&rsquo;t become a more loving body in order to
affect bodies beneficially. You don&rsquo;t function in the illusion of
love or the illusion of hate.

The only thing that has brought the orphanage into
existence&mdash;seeming existence&mdash;is the step you took to divorce
your Father. I didn&rsquo;t divorce my Father, therefore, I suffered no
crucifixion. I experienced no resurrection. But the death of a mindset
of mankind occurred and the resurrection of the truth to some degree
occurred. Why? Because I didn&rsquo;t get a divorce, and so God&rsquo;s
laws prevailed for me.

As each one of you moves into the holy instant, as each one of you dares
to assume that everything you know is probably false or severely biased,
you will sincerely ask what the truth is more frequently, you will reach
outside of your current mindsets, you will join with that which is
beyond your body, which you think is your Self. And the orphanage will
begin to crumble, the walls will begin to collapse, you&rsquo;ll begin
to be able to see through the boundaries. Your resurrection will occur.
And you&rsquo;ll make commitment to going across the bridge, which would
be the equivalent of resurrection.

Was the ascension a movement to another dimension where human life was
risen above, where body existence ended? Is that what you have to look
forward to? No, that isn&rsquo;t what it meant at all.

The ascension did involve the movement of what everybody perceived as my
body rising into the sky. But you know what? It was the same action that
occurred when I removed myself from a crowd up and into a mountain or
when I went from one side of the sea to the other instantaneously. It
was just a shift of the attention.

Crossing the bridge is your shift of attention. It&rsquo;s that simple.
That&rsquo;s the equivalent of the ascension.

You will still have all that identifies you right now, except you will
not feel like you&rsquo;re inside it. And you will not identify any part
of Creation as being exclusively you. In fact, you won&rsquo;t be the
focus of your attention because every aspect of Creation will be an
experience of the Presence of God in the fullness and glory of what God
Is. And I&rsquo;m using those words on purpose, so that you might
understand that it&rsquo;s a much fuller experience of holiness and
Spirit and truth and Love and divinity than anything you&rsquo;re
currently or presently experiencing.

The other side of the bridge is on the other end of your attention. As
someone said earlier today: &ldquo;Wherever you give your attention,
your faith goes there with you.&rdquo;

Let&rsquo;s make sure, as you face the bridge with an intent to move
across, that you don&rsquo;t become distracted by the calls from bodies
asking for you to respond as a body, because if your attention goes
there, your faith will go there. And where your faith goes, your belief
becomes embodied.

And so, if you want one who is not a holy Son of God to deal with, to
confront you, to make demands of you and for you to have to protect
yourself from, then let your attention go to that definition and your
faith will accompany it&mdash;and, as I said last week, the holy Son of
God there will escape you completely and you will be behaving in a way
that completely misses Who that Individuality really Is. Your lack of
connection will constitute an absolute lack of communication. And the
illusion of a battle between Salvation and its opposite will seem to
occupy you. And none of it will be Real.

You know what? On your own you don&rsquo;t know what to have faith in.
So be careful where you automatically give your attention.

Your Salvation lies in your practice of the two-step: Hesitating, not
responding out of habit, mentally or physically &hellip; hesitating,
stepping back and inquiring, &ldquo;What&rsquo;s the truth here?&rdquo;
That&rsquo;s your Salvation. Because then a body demanding something of
a body is not what is confronting you. What&rsquo;s confronting you is
the answer you are intent upon hearing, the answer to the question
you&rsquo;re asking&mdash;not the demand the other is making of you.
That&rsquo;s the key.

We&rsquo;ve talked before about bad behavior being a call for love.
Well, it should be becoming clear to you that it&rsquo;s not a call for
you as a body to love, because that&rsquo;s just a special love
that&rsquo;s used to cover up a special hate. It&rsquo;s one illusion
attempting to do something to another illusion, the result being: No
Salvation. Because where the attention went is where the faith went and
where the faith went is where the manifestation came forth. That will
even more severely convince you that you must be a better body.

Let&rsquo;s go into the book. I&rsquo;m going to backup slightly:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There IS no conflict in the choice between truth and illusion.[^1]
</div>

No conflict. When a call for love occurs and you turn to the Father
instead of turning to the one making the call for love, you&rsquo;re
making a choice for truth and &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There IS no conflict in the choice between truth and illusion. Seen in
THESE terms, no one would hesitate.
</div>

But you see, everyone tends to see in the terms of body identification
and on those terms you would hesitate.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
But conflict enters the instant the choice seems to be one between
ILLUSIONS, for this choice does not matter.
</div>

As I said last week, it doesn&rsquo;t matter because whichever one you
make, the choice has been made for illusion, and therefore, you are
still deluded&mdash;nothing has happened. So it makes no difference
which one you choose. Neither one of them gets you out of the orphanage.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Where one choice is as dangerous as the other, the decision MUST be one
of despair.

Your task is not to seek for love, but merely to seek and find ALL of
the barriers within yourself which you have built AGAINST it.
</div>

Be careful here. This sentence is very important. But as I&rsquo;ve said
before, it doesn&rsquo;t mean, &ldquo;go on an internal
witch-hunt.&rdquo; It is not to become your task to find out
what&rsquo;s wrong with you. It is your task to find out where beliefs
are governing you instead of understanding. And you have no way to
determine which things are beliefs and which are not.

And so &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your task is not to seek for love, but merely to seek and find ALL of
the barriers within yourself which you have built AGAINST it.
</div>

I&rsquo;ve been telling you over and over how to do that. How do you
find all the barriers? By assuming that everything you know, everything
you think constitutes a barrier. And therefore, you have nothing better
in this whole world to do daily than to say, &ldquo;Father, what is the
truth here?&rdquo; Just like a curious child, &ldquo;Daddy, what&rsquo;s
that, what&rsquo;s that, what&rsquo;s that?&rdquo; &ldquo;What&rsquo;s
the truth here?&rdquo; Bring that curiosity into play, because the
answer you will get when you are not insisting on authorizing the
answers will uncover illusion and truth. And the truth will be so
wonderful and so obvious that you will immediately let go of, abandon,
the illusion. It&rsquo;s that simple.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is not necessary to seek for what is true, but it IS necessary to
seek for what is false. Every illusion is one of fear, whatever form it
takes. And the attempt to escape from one illusion into another MUST
fail. If you seek love outside yourself, you can be certain that you
perceive hatred within and are AFRAID of it. Yet peace will never come
from the illusion of love, but ONLY from its reality.
</div>

Again, it can be misleading.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is not necessary to seek for what is true, but it IS necessary to
seek for what is false.
</div>

The idea of seeking for what is true&mdash;if you play with the idea, if
you consider it&mdash;will, generally speaking, not include your
shutting up and asking the Father what the truth is. Seeking the truth
will be something you engage in through the active use of thinking and
logic and reasoning and research and on and on and on.

Instead of engaging in any activity&mdash;either trying to discover what
the truth is, or trying to discover what the illusion is&mdash;your task
is to turn your attention away from your thinking mind. It&rsquo;s like
you must do the opposite of what you&rsquo;re inclined to do. You must
become still, like meditating, in which you have no other agenda going
on. Not meditating so you can hear the truth, but meditating so that in
the peace you experience, understanding can unfold because that&rsquo;s
what it does, not because it&rsquo;s what you&rsquo;re doing.

This is important.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Recognize this, for it is true, and truth MUST be recognized if it is to
be distinguished from illusion: The special love relationship is an
attempt to bring love into fear, and make it REAL in fear.
</div>

What does that mean? It means to bring it into a fearful circumstance
and let it be Real in the middle of that fearful circumstance and become
transformational in that circumstance, without ever lifting either one
of you out of it into the place where God&rsquo;s laws govern
absolutely&mdash;and the illusion of conflict between love and hate
isn&rsquo;t going on.

To make love Real in fear is to make it be an actual dynamic that can
have an actual effect on fear and cause fear to change. When, if
you&rsquo;ll remember, fear is an illusion brought into play by only one
thing: your decision to get a divorce from your Father, your decision to
attempt to be an independent agent. And therefore, the only means of
annihilating the experience of fear is to abandon the independence that
you have prized so highly.

Again, the Easter message. This is what it means.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In fundamental violation of love&rsquo;s condition, the special love
relationship would accomplish the impossible.
</div>

If it could.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
How but in illusion COULD this be done?

How but in illusion COULD this be done?
</div>

It can&rsquo;t. The Easter message is the message of stepping out of the
illusion of oppositional forces&mdash;God and the devil, Spirit and
matter at war with each other. Who will win? I&rsquo;m telling you that
the concept of God and devil could only come into play when one abandons
his right Mind, when one gets a divorce from his Father. And the only
correction of this illusion&mdash;of the conflict of super
powers&mdash;can occur when you say, &ldquo;Father, help me! Father,
show me Your truth.&rdquo;

That&rsquo;s what you do in the tomb. That&rsquo;s what you do in the
tomb. And that&rsquo;s the way you come out of the tomb. And
that&rsquo;s the meaning of Easter &hellip; every moment.

Happy Easter! Meaningful Easter. Sober Easter. Sober, meaning, with the
Real peace of Being as the backdrop for every single experience of this
day.

Okay.

[^1]: T16.4 Illusion and Reality of Love

