---
title: May 15, 2010
ref: "T16.4 Illusion and Reality of Love"
alink: "/acim/text/16/chap1604/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

I&rsquo;ve shared with everyone many times the statement, &ldquo;You are
neither behind the point of perfection nor advancing toward it. You are
at that point and must understand yourself therefrom.&rdquo;

It&rsquo;s a simple statement. It gives you the starting point and the
ending point, if you will, which are one in the same. And it makes clear
what is fruitless activity like, becoming &hellip; like, getting better
and better &hellip; or being worse.

But something that I haven&rsquo;t brought out before is the fact that
this state of being neither behind the point of perfection nor advancing
toward it, is a state of perfect intimacy. And this is very important to
understand. Because you might think&mdash;if you&rsquo;re inclined to
think&mdash;that all you have to do is be conscious of the fact that you
are neither behind the point of perfection nor advancing toward it and
that you&rsquo;re at that point. A nice little private thought. A nice
little private awareness. And obviously, a private awareness does not
involve intimacy.

Now, what we&rsquo;re going to be reading tonight is all about intimacy.
And it&rsquo;s basically very simple. But you know what? If you&rsquo;re
not inclined toward an intimate attitude when you&rsquo;re reading this,
you won&rsquo;t understand a word it says. And perhaps you&rsquo;ve read
it before and didn&rsquo;t understand it. And now you know why.

If you are actively engaged in the practice of authority, of
accomplishment, of independence, there&rsquo;s no room for anything
else. The concept of intimacy doesn&rsquo;t fit in autonomy. And so
everything you do will stand at odds with your Awakening, will stand at
odds with your discovering that you are the holy Son or Daughter of God
in actuality.

You know what? The intimacy that is meant to be embodied in that
statement, &ldquo;You are neither behind the point of perfection nor
advancing toward it. You are at the point and must understand yourself
therefrom,&rdquo; is captured in the image or the sight of an infant or
a very young child who&rsquo;s held in his mother&rsquo;s or his
father&rsquo;s arms and who has fallen asleep in pure safety and
security&mdash;bliss&mdash;an intimacy that comes about because he has
abandoned, if indeed he had any to abandon, he has abandoned
self-protection. He is not experiencing fear and he does not hold
himself apart at all. He simply sinks into his mother&rsquo;s or
father&rsquo;s arms&mdash;yields to the intimacy.

Now, the intimacy that you are being invited to engage in doesn&rsquo;t
involve going to sleep, and is more like a child who&rsquo;s being held
who isn&rsquo;t sleepy but is contented and who lies there in his
mother&rsquo;s or father&rsquo;s arms, eyes wide open, looking up into
his mother&rsquo;s or father&rsquo;s eyes in utter peace, utter
contentment, and utter union&mdash;more a fuller union than just
relaxing into his parents&rsquo; arms&mdash;a contentment and intimacy
through eye contact where he knows you know he knows and you know he
knows you know.

Let&rsquo;s read the sentence we ended up with the last time we were
together and listen to it now in light of what I just said.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Across the bridge is your completion, for you will be wholly in
God&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; um &hellip;just as that child is wholly in his father&rsquo;s
or mother&rsquo;s presence and grasp and environment &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; for you will be wholly in God, willing for nothing special, but
only to be wholly like unto Him, completing Him by YOUR completion.
</div>

Any of you who have ever held a child, who in utter simplicity and peace
lies in your arms and looks up into your eyes with pure contentment and
love, understands these words and it brings the words alive because the
subject is intimacy, the subject is union, the subject is coming Home.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Fear not to cross to the abode of peace and perfect holiness.
</div>

Well you know, that little children are very able to do that, but
you&rsquo;re not. You need to be. And that&rsquo;s what this is about.

And as I said, if when you read this you&rsquo;re in a state of
self-defense and self-protection and autonomy, this isn&rsquo;t going to
make sense or it&rsquo;s going to make you very disturbed. Because
it&rsquo;s going to call for you to abandon something you feel is
absolutely important to you. Nevertheless, the truth is here to be seen.
And now that I&rsquo;m pointing it out, you know that if at a future
time you read this, or anything like it, and it makes you angry or it
disturbs you, that it means that you are engaging in, with vigor, in the
act of self-protection and authority. And now you know that the call is
for you to abandon it&mdash;to stop valuing it and to use whatever
self-discipline is necessary to accomplish that task&mdash;even though
you don&rsquo;t feel like doing it, even though you feel like indulging
in your anger or your seemingly justifiable distress. But &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Fear not to cross to the abode of peace and perfect holiness. Only
there is the completion of God and of His Son&hellip;
</div>

you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
established forever.
</div>

It&rsquo;s established there forever. There&rsquo;s been no variableness
to it ever, even though you have indulged in self-assertion independent
from and separate from your Father&rsquo;s arms, your Father&rsquo;s
love, and your Father&rsquo;s embrace.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Seek not for this &hellip;
</div>

the completion of God and His Son &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
in the bleak world of illusion, where nothing is certain, and
where everything fails to satisfy.
</div>

Well, what&rsquo;s the bleak world of illusion? You can read that and
say, &ldquo;Oh yeah, I understand, I&rsquo;m not gonna seek for it in
the bleak world of illusion in this world &hellip; ya know &hellip; all
of this is illusion, I&rsquo;m not gonna seek for it there.&rdquo;

But it isn&rsquo;t about this world that you&rsquo;re in. The bleak
world of illusion is a concept you have, a mental context that you have
that says you&rsquo;re capable of thinking and that your thinking is
valuable. And so, there&rsquo;s the error. There&rsquo;s where the
correction needs to occur. And that&rsquo;s why we have the two-step.

Now, as I said, you could say, &ldquo;Oh, yeah, of course, I&rsquo;m not
gonna look for it in the bleak world of illusion &hellip;&rdquo; talking
about this world, and you&rsquo;ve already done it! Because the
statement that came out of your mouth [snaps fingers] so spontaneously
and so confidently, was thinking! You were indulging in the bleak world
of illusion. The world of the illusion that your thinking is dependable,
accurate, constructive and can succeed in making you safe, healthy,
wealthy and wise. You see?

You&rsquo;ve already succumbed to the bleak world of illusion: The
idea&mdash;the false idea&mdash;that your thinking is valuable, that
it&rsquo;s the beginning and the ending.

When you understand that the bleak world of illusion is the mindset that
says your thinking is valuable, then you have a way to not seek for the
completion of God and His Son&mdash;you&mdash;in thinking. You know not
to do it. And that the way to have the experience of your Oneness with
your Father become illuminated to you, is to shut up! And thereby not
indulge in the bleak world of illusion. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Seek not for this &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the completion of God and of His Son which is established
forever &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; in the bleak world of illusion, where nothing is certain, and
where everything fails to satisfy.
</div>

See? So now it&rsquo;s clear to you that you don&rsquo;t want to engage
in this independent act of thinking that doesn&rsquo;t involve intimacy
at all. And therefore does not expose you to the forever experience of
your safety and wholeness that has never changed and it&rsquo;s your
Birthright to be experiencing.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In the Name of God&hellip;
</div>

in the arms of God as God&rsquo;s loved offspring who loves his
Father, Mother &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
be wholly willing to abandon ALL illusions.
</div>

What? Thinking, reasoning, judgments, pet theories and the belief that
their use can be creative and cause things to actually, really happen.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In any relationship in which you are wholly willing to accept
completion, and ONLY this&hellip;
</div>

nothing else, and ONLY this, just like the child that accepts
it and ONLY that&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
there is God completed, and His Son with Him.
</div>

Again, every mother or father or aunt or uncle or brother or sister who
has held an infant, who has yielded into the one who is holding him
completely, understands what these words mean in their divine aspect
relative to the holy Son of God that you Are and the means by which you
can arrive at the conscious experience of it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The bridge that leads to union in yourself MUST lead to knowledge, for
it &hellip;
</div>

what? The bridge &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
for it was built with God beside you, and will lead you
straight to Him, where your completion rests, wholly compatible with
His.
</div>

Now, you know that I don&rsquo;t generally use the word,
&ldquo;knowledge&rdquo; as much as I use the word, &ldquo;knowing&rdquo;
because in a way, knowledge can be conceived to be bits of information,
collections of bits of information, organized bits of information that
you might be able to rattle off but never really understand, never
really know.

And so, when it says &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The bridge that leads to union in yourself must lead to
knowledge&hellip;
</div>

it really means that it must lead to Knowing, the sort of
knowing that you experience when you&rsquo;re holding that child
who&rsquo;s gazing innocently and intimately into your eyes. You know
something, you may not even be able to put it into words, but you know
something and it&rsquo;s not a bit of knowledge.

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The bridge that leads to union in yourself must lead to &hellip;
</div>

knowing. Something significant.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
for it &hellip;
</div>

the bridge that leads you to it &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
was built with God beside you, and will lead you straight to
Him, where your completion rests&hellip;
</div>

not as a thought, &ldquo;Oh, I&rsquo;m neither behind the point
of perfection nor advancing toward it. I&rsquo;m at that point and did
you know what? I understand myself therefrom.&rdquo; Bullshit! The words
mean something but they are to lead you to an experience &hellip; an
experience &hellip; an experience of what? Intimacy, undefended intimacy
where you have succumbed to your Father&rsquo;s love, where you have
yielded to it and experienced it so that you find Awakened in you an
infinite love that you have for your Father. And in that experience,
which is Knowing, and which this sentence calls &ldquo;knowledge,&rdquo;
you and God are made whole. It&rsquo;s beautiful.

You know what? To study the Course, to study the truth, to want to know
the truth, to want to know the truth instead of error, to want to have
instantaneous healings, these things are all valid wants&mdash;valid
desires&mdash;and they will be yours when you abandon the last shred of
the desire to be able to act in your own right independently. Because
until you&rsquo;ve abandoned it, you&rsquo;re seeking for the completion
of God and of His Son in the bleak world of illusion, of whatever effort
you&rsquo;re putting into the practice of your own thinking and your own
supposed authority and your own attempts to make things happen all by
yourself. And you don&rsquo;t want to be looking for completion in the
bleak world of illusion.

And now you know. And I&rsquo;m going to reiterate it. The bleak world
of illusion is not the world and universe, it&rsquo;s the mindset in
which thinking independently, being conscious independently, is seen to
be valuable and real and an actual birthright that somehow the Father
gave you for you to exercise as your birthright.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Every illusion which you accept into your mind by judging it to be
attainable removes your own sense of completion, and thus denies the
Wholeness of your Father.
</div>

Why? Because it&rsquo;s like the child pulling his eyes away from the
intimacy with his parent and beginning to squirm and beginning to want
to do what he wants to do. You see? And so, the wholeness is disturbed
and the activity becomes a seeking for satisfaction outside of the bond
of intimacy where it&rsquo;s not present.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Every illusion which you accept into your mind by judging it to be
attainable &hellip;
</div>

what does that mean? It means every idea, every thought, every
collection of thoughts which you accept into your mind by judging it to
be attainable, meaning by judging those collections of thoughts to have
a capacity&mdash;to have an effect&mdash;and therefore cause something
to be attainable&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
removes your own sense of completion&hellip;
</div>

it puts you in the orphan mindset. Orphans aren&rsquo;t
complete. They lack. They lack a source. They lack a father, they lack a
mother.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Every illusion which you accept into your mind by judging it to be
attainable removes your own sense of completion, and thus denies the
Wholeness of your Father.
</div>

And just as with the child, that wholeness will not be present until
what? The child settles down and happens to look up &hellip; perhaps,
&ldquo;Oh &hellip; oh &hellip; Father, Mother &hellip; I see you. Oh-h,
sorry I got distracted. This is much better than being distracted
&hellip; I love you and you love me and I know it. And we know that each
other knows it.&rdquo;

That&rsquo;s Knowing. That&rsquo;s not a thought, that&rsquo;s not an
idea.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Every fantasy&hellip;
</div>

meaning, every spurious wild thought or even every minimal
ignorant thought.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Every fantasy, be it of love or hate, deprives you of knowledge&hellip;
</div>

of the experience of Knowing that is intimate &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
for fantasies &hellip;
</div>

all these thoughts and ideas that you think can accomplish
something &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
are the veil behind which truth is hidden.
</div>

So there you go. When the veil is lifted, it means that the screen, the
sieve, the disturbance of thoughts will dissolve because you&rsquo;ve
stopped energizing them. And that which obscured the truth is gone and
truth becomes clear&mdash;Knowing occurs. And mind you again, Knowing is
an intimate experience.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To lift the veil which seems so dark and heavy, it is only needful to
value truth beyond ALL fantasy, and to be entirely unwilling to settle
for illusion IN PLACE of truth.
</div>

Well, here&rsquo;s where the work comes into play. Because you like the
work of practicing illusions and of dealing with delusions and asserting
what you think is a prerogative you have to be able to think and make
things happen by virtue of your thoughts.

You&rsquo;ve got to arrive where you&rsquo;re unwilling to settle for
illusion. You&rsquo;ve got to be unwilling to settle for that activity
and the promise of success that you believe is involved. And persist in
choosing for your silence and your peace where the veil of thinking is
no longer being energized.

But you love to think. And so you constantly energize the veil. And
you&rsquo;re familiar with that. And you&rsquo;re familiar with the
consequences and you can cope fairly well with it. And the main reason
it&rsquo;s worth it to you is because it makes you feel like
you&rsquo;re still in charge, when you&rsquo;re not.

We started out:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Fear not to cross to the abode of peace and perfect holiness.
</div>

But you are afraid to do it because you&rsquo;re afraid to let go of the
control you think you have, and the responsibility to exercise it that
you think you have.

You know, when you start to listen for guidance, your Guide or the Holy
Spirit will give you things to do that are new. You will be guided to do
things like, &ldquo;shut up &hellip; to be still,&rdquo; right when you
are confident that you must assert yourself in some way. And you must be
willing to take the guidance, because after all, in the process of
Waking up what&rsquo;s going to happen? You&rsquo;re going to be helped
to abandon the very things that have kept you ignorant, kept you asleep,
kept you in a state of suffering, even when you didn&rsquo;t know
that&rsquo;s what was happening.

And so all of the things you have confidences about are things which the
Holy Spirit or your Guide will be helping you to abandon. And that goes
against your feeling of security because all of the exercises of power
that you have engaged in you believe have made you safe or will make you
safe, and your abandonment of them will make you vulnerable.

You&rsquo;ve got to remind yourself of the child in its father&rsquo;s
arms or mother&rsquo;s arms and see yourself there so that you might
know that if you do abandon the authority you think you have to express,
you will find an experience of safety that is really an experience of
invulnerability, which means unthreatenable.

So, we&rsquo;re talking about a change from autonomous independence to
sheer simple undefended intimacy. From a place where fear is the only
experience available to you to a place where utter love is the center
and circumference of Being, your Being, your conscious experience and
the Father&rsquo;s, because you&rsquo;ve let them be joined and
therefore, you have discovered that they are inseparable and never were
separated.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Would you not go THROUGH fear to love?
</div>

You see, there is a point to all of this. The point is not to cope with
fear and get a handle on it, but to move through it like through a veil,
like through a fog into the light. And if you want to have that
experience, you&rsquo;ve got to abandon what&rsquo;s creating the
experience. And what&rsquo;s creating the experience of fear is every
attempt you engage in to be and do and accomplish something
autonomously&mdash;on you own.

You see, the answer is simple, but it&rsquo;s exactly the opposite of
what you are geared to do.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Would you not go THROUGH fear to love?
</div>

&hellip; and come out on the other side of it where you&rsquo;re not
dealing with it? And where you arrive on the other side of it because
you didn&rsquo;t deal with it but you persisted in wanting to see your
Father&rsquo;s Love in your Father&rsquo;s eyes and you didn&rsquo;t
want anything else.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For such the journey seems to be&hellip;
</div>

going through Love to fear &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Love calls, but hate would have you stay. Hear not the call of hate, and
see no fantasies. See in the call of hate, and in every fantasy that
rises to delay you, but the call for help which rises ceaselessly from
you to your Creator.
</div>

You know what? No matter how much the baby frets right while he&rsquo;s
in your arms, there comes a point where he notices you again and gives
his attention back to you and settles back down and feels his security.
The call for help was there in his fretfulness. But he forgot where the
help was and so he looked away and chose to act on his own and tried to
satisfy his needs independently. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
See in the call of hate&hellip;
</div>

see in the distress &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
and in every fantasy that rises to delay you, but the call for
help which rises ceaselessly from you to your Creator. Would He not
answer you whose completion is His?
</div>

You see, He&rsquo;s not stupid. [chuckles] He&rsquo;s not suffering from
ignorance. He&rsquo;s not becoming distracted from you, just like the
father and mother holding the babe is not distracted from the child.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He loves you, wholly without illusion&hellip;
</div>

what does that mean? &hellip; wholly without having thoughts
about you, good ones or bad ones, grand ones or small ones. He
doesn&rsquo;t have any thoughts about you. He&rsquo;s involved in the
experience. He&rsquo;s involved in the Knowing. And so He&rsquo;s there
for you the moment you notice Him again, you see, and make yourself
available to the experience of Knowing that completes both of you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He loves you, wholly without illusion, as you must love. For love IS
wholly without illusion, and therefore wholly without fear.
</div>

You know what? If you have become distracted and you&rsquo;re having
your own thoughts and you&rsquo;re valuing your own authority and
you&rsquo;re experiencing fear as a result, you&rsquo;ve got to notice
it. You&rsquo;ve got to notice it clearly enough that you can make a
decision to abandon what&rsquo;s creating the fear. And right in the
face of the urge to do something to get control, to provide yourself
with a feeling of safety, you have to shut up and look into your
Father&rsquo;s eyes&mdash;you have to sift your attention.

Remember, your attention is God&rsquo;s treasure. Well, God&rsquo;s
attention is your treasure.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Whom God remembers MUST be whole. And God has never forgotten what makes
HIM whole.
</div>

You and every part of Creation.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In your completion &hellip;
</div>

meaning, the experience of Knowing that constitutes intimacy.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In your completion lies the memory of His Wholeness, and His gratitude
to you for His completion.
</div>

&hellip; the full circle, the Oneness as the wholeness that&rsquo;s
utterly indivisible and always has been.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In His link with you lie both His inability to forget, and your ability
to remember period. In Him are joined your willingness to love, and
all the Love of God, Who forgot you not.
</div>

&ldquo;Oh, I know. Yeah, this is all beautiful stuff &hellip; um-m
&hellip; beautiful. But you know what? I have real problems. And I
don&rsquo;t have time for this intimacy shit! I have things to take care
of. I gotta protect my ass!&rdquo;

Well, okay, seek for it in the bleak world of illusion until you get
tired of it or remember what we&rsquo;ve talked about and make the
choice to abandon the bleak world of illusion and value the
&ldquo;intimacy shit&rdquo; so that it ceases to be shit and becomes
your most valuable asset. And learn to apply yourself, I&rsquo;m going
to say, to that goal diligently enough that no matter how strong the
urge is that comes to you to take charge and begin thinking and coming
to conclusions, you don&rsquo;t do it. And you sit there or stand there
and say, &ldquo;Father, what is the truth here,&rdquo; until you hear.
Stick with it until you hear&mdash;yield, relax in the Father&rsquo;s
Love until you feel it because you will. There&rsquo;s no alternative.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your Father can no more forget the truth in you &hellip;
</div>

although you have &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
than you can fail to remember it.
</div>

You may have forgotten it, but you can&rsquo;t fail to remember it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit is the bridge to Him&hellip;
</div>

the one you&rsquo;ll cross over&mdash;that of you which is
nothing more than your right Mind, waiting for this tiny-separated
little sense of yourself that you&rsquo;re indulging in to let down the
boundaries so that you can let It in, when It is the remembrance of God
in you. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit is the bridge to Him, made from your willingness&hellip;
</div>

To what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To unite with Him&hellip;
</div>

to stop squirming in your Father&rsquo;s or Mother&rsquo;s arms
and relax and yield into the embrace.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit is the bridge to Him, made from your willingness to
unite with Him, and created by His joy in union with you. The journey
that seemed to be endless is almost complete&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you know what that means? It&rsquo;s almost complete right now.
I know, we haven&rsquo;t finished the book. But you know what? The
completion is as close as your willingness to abandon your insistence
upon thinking and asserting yourself as an orphan, as an independent
entity&mdash;which you aren&rsquo;t. You have almost recognized it, that
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
what IS endless is very near. You have almost recognized it.
Turn with me firmly away from all illusions NOW, and let nothing stand
in the way of truth.
</div>

Join with me or join with your Guide or join with the Holy Spirit. And
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Turn with me &hellip;
</div>

or them &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
firmly away from all illusions NOW&hellip;
</div>

turn away from all the thinking, let there be peace in you&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
and let nothing stand in the way of truth. We &hellip;
</div>

whether it&rsquo;s you and me or you and the Holy Spirit or you
and your Guide.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
We will take the last foolish journey AWAY from truth together, and then
together we go straight to God, in joyous answer to His call for His
completion.
</div>

Now what does this mean, &ldquo;We will take the last foolish journey
AWAY from truth together?&rdquo;

Well, because you are presently experiencing delusion, you need help out
of it. And so you ask me or you turn to the Holy Spirit and the only
thing that we are capable of doing in the final analysis is to help you
turn away from illusion. But because in Reality there is no such thing
as illusion, we&rsquo;re helping you to do the last foolish
journey&mdash;that of abandoning illusion. You see?

We&rsquo;re helping you do something you can&rsquo;t do. And we&rsquo;re
helping you undo something that you never did&mdash;but we are having to
engage in the undoing of it. And that is why it says: &ldquo;We will
take the last foolish journey AWAY from truth together.&rdquo;

To the degree that you and I decide to abandon illusions we are still
engaging in a journey away from truth. But I know how to help you not
get caught in lengthening the last foolish journey so that when we work
together it gets undone.

Another shared experience of intimacy in which you abandon your
self-assertion and yield to help, yield to the love I extend to you,
yield to the love the Holy Spirit extends to you.

The undoing of illusion is the reestablishment of the intimacy of Being.

Now we have one more paragraph in this section, but we&rsquo;re going to
end there. I want you to stay with that. I want you to let it abide with
you and I want you to be willing to abide with it.

And I know that during the coming week, you will still engage in
self-assertion, self-protection and feel good about it. But you have a
means to notice when you&rsquo;re doing it and to recognize that, what?
&hellip;you&rsquo;re seeking for the completion of God and of His Son, which
is established forever in the bleak world of illusion. And because you
know that now, you can remind yourself and abandon the activity. And
that&rsquo;s a step in the right direction, and it&rsquo;s healthy and
it&rsquo;s healing.

I love you. And I look forward to being with you all through the week
and next time.

[^1]: T16.4 Illusion and Reality of Love

