---
title: Jun 5, 2010
ref: "Discussion"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

What we need to talk about tonight are miracles. We&rsquo;re
reading from a book called, *A Course In Miracles*. And you know what? A
lot of the students of the Course say, &ldquo;*A Course in Miracles* is
not about miracles, per se. They&rsquo;re not about healing the
sick&hellip; raising the dead&hellip; walking on water&hellip; moving
from one place to another instantaneously. But that it&rsquo;s a sudden
shift of consciousness, you might say, a sudden change of mind that
might not be accompanied by any physical changes, any, let&rsquo;s say,
change in your life. It&rsquo;s just that the problem will not bother
you as much anymore, because you&rsquo;ve found your peace.&rdquo;

But you know what?

We read last week that &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; as you step lightly across [the bridge to timelessness], upheld
BY timelessness, you are directed straight to the Heart of God. At Its
center, and ONLY there, you are safe forever, because you are COMPLETE
forever.
</div> 

No. Let&rsquo;s pay attention to what the words say. The words say when
you are there &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
you are COMPLETE forever.
</div> 

Do you think you have never been at the center of the Heart of God? Do
you think that you were never ever the holy Son or Daughter of God
without any ignorance of your divinity, of your wholeness, of your
completeness?

Do you think that God created you imperfect, with a capacity to become
perfect?

Then the simple fact is, that you could never step lightly across the
bridge upheld BY timelessness and find yourself directed straight to the
Heart of God and at Its center and ONLY there, find yourself COMPLETE
forever.

Forever means forever. It means before, now, after, without any of it
being divided up into before, now, after. It&rsquo;s FOREVER. It&rsquo;s
always. It&rsquo;s immutably, unchangeably the fact of Being. And if you
can at some point, step into the conscious experience of your
completeness forever, then you&rsquo;re stepping into what could only
have been a pre-existing state, an ever-present state, even though you
were thinking you were incomplete&mdash;partial, alone, separated. You
see?

So if you&rsquo;re going to find yourself complete in the Heart of God
at any point in your existence, it&rsquo;s not going to be a new state
of Being for you. It&rsquo;s going to be your natural state of Being
that you&rsquo;ve always been in, but which you have been unconscious
of, and more than that, it&rsquo;s something you have been consciously
ignoring.

And how do you consciously ignore it? By consciously denying your
completeness. By consciously denying the miraculous. By consciously
denying the evidence of your completeness. And when you deny the
evidence of your completeness, when you deny it as the eternal state of
your being, you, as we&rsquo;ve discussed before, created dissonance
within yourselves which distracts you from the conscious experience of
your eternal state of Being.

Now, no one who studies the Course will tell me or tell anyone else that
the Course is about denying your completeness &hellip; it will not tell
you that it is about denying the blessing of God&rsquo;s Love. They will
not tell you it&rsquo;s about denying your relationship with God. They
will not tell you that it&rsquo;s about denying your holiness.

But you see, the strange thing is, that they will, and many of you do
find ways to claim that you&rsquo;re not the Son of God&mdash;the holy
Son of God&mdash;and that there is not justification for you to have
perfect vision or perfectly functioning kidneys or a capacity to run the
four-minute mile or the three-minute mile, perhaps, or the capacity to
give evidence to the miraculous.

Now, if it isn&rsquo;t about denying those things, then why learn about
completeness? Why learn about your holiness? Why learn about your
holiness if you aren&rsquo;t to take hold of it, if you aren&rsquo;t to
grasp it and embrace it and embody it, incorporate it so that it changes
you?

Because I&rsquo;ll tell you, one who is &ldquo;complete forever in the
Heart of God&rdquo; is blemish-free &ndash; is imperfection-free. No
zits of any kind, anywhere, and only the loveliness of love everywhere.
But you argue against the miracle. You DO argue against the miracle.

At the bottom line, you are all afraid of miracles &mdash; maybe not the
little ones, but the big ones you&rsquo;re afraid of. In fact, the big
ones you will often use as a means of applying guilt to yourselves and
making yourself miserable. If you are in a plane crash and you are one
of three people who survive, it would be called a miracle. And yet, very
often, your survival constitutes a justification for grief: &ldquo;Why
me? Why did I not die and everyone else did?&rdquo; If you go through a
hurricane and your dwelling is least damaged, you feel uncomfortable
around everyone else because you&rsquo;re not as bad off as they are.

How much is too much good? Well, too much good is the amount of good
that estranges you from your Brothers and Sisters. Not because they hold
it against you, but because you feel unequal and you feel an unfairness.

How much is too much good? Well, too much good is the amount of good
that estranges you from your Brothers and Sisters. Not because they hold
it against you, but because you feel unequal and you feel an unfairness.

Now, you know what? Attitudes have to change about miracles. Miracles
have got to start being embraced. Let&rsquo;s bring it down to earth a
little bit: Completeness has to be embraced as something to take hold
of and love, and expect to find embodied by you in your daily life, in
your actions, in your body, in your relationships. And you had better
begin to expect to see the evidence of completeness there, because if
you don&rsquo;t, it&rsquo;s only because you are expecting not to see
it &mdash; you are disallowing the miraculous partly because you
don&rsquo;t want to feel guilty.

So, let me ask you: At the end of this day or any other day, ask
yourself, &ldquo;Have I given evidence to the miraculous today? Have I
witnessed the miraculous?&rdquo; In other words, &ldquo;Did I not miss
it through lack of attention?&rdquo; Because I&rsquo;ll tell you, the
miraculous happens in front of you every day.

Why do I say that? Because God is appearing in front of you every day.
God is the only Thing manifesting in front of you at any given moment.
Did you give evidence to the miraculous by witnessing it? . . or were
you too preoccupied with your problems and your grievances and your
jealousies and your fears, et cetera?

So, did you witness the miraculous? . . or did you facilitate the
miraculous during your day? . . or did you allow the miraculous to
happen to you during the day?

You should be able to say &ldquo;Yes&rdquo; to all three of them. And
you should be able to say &ldquo;Yes&rdquo; to all three of them
multiple times every day.

You know, there are those who devote their lives to the practice of
healing, healing as the result of doing the two-step, healing as the
result of joining with the Father, wanting to know the Father&rsquo;s
perspective about one who needs to be healed so that this healer may
join with the Father in acknowledgement of the truth, in acknowledgement
of the experience of the truth of this one needing healing&mdash;and
there is an expectation that healing will occur. And the one asking for
healing is in expectation of healing occurring.

And when the expectation is in alignment, and when it is not interfered
with by doubt or arguments against the healing, there&rsquo;s not just a
shift of perception, there&rsquo;s a shift of experience&mdash;and the
blind can see and the kidneys work &hellip; and the body functions.

Now, one could say, let&rsquo;s say the one needing healing could say,
&ldquo;Why should I deserve healing when there are thousands of people
in and out of hospitals around the world dying from this very same
illness, or suffering from this very same illness? Why should I
experience healing? Why should I get special attention?

Well, fortunately for those practicing healing, that question
doesn&rsquo;t make sense and is corrected immediately in the recognition
that every time a belief in lack is overcome&mdash;is negated&mdash;and
is replaced by wholeness, it lessons the density of the belief of lack
in the world.

And so one deserves to experience healing because first of all, it
honors the Father by giving evidence of the Father&rsquo;s perfection
right where you are, right where &ldquo;a human being is.&rdquo; And if
you have the evidence of the Presence of God right where you
are&mdash;right where a human being is&mdash;that evidence of the
miraculous in the human experience lifts the human experience, you might
say, lowers the density of the confidence everyone has in the
impossibility of the miraculous. And this is needed. And it needs to be
taken hold of and embraced consciously with no reservation, no doubts,
no guilt.

You experiencing the miraculous demonstrate the Reality of the
miraculous, give evidence to wholeness, which at the least is inspiring
to all who are not experiencing their wholeness.

And if they misunderstand what&rsquo;s happening and they do become
jealous of you. &ldquo;Well, who are you to deserve to not have
cancer anymore without going through chemo therapy and all the rugged
shit? Who the hell are you to have this experience and not me?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Well, I&rsquo;m just like you. And because I&rsquo;m just like
you, what&rsquo;s happened to me is your Birthright as well. And
I&rsquo;ll be glad to stand with you in honor of your Birthright.
I&rsquo;m willing to stand with you as evidence of the truth about you
so that you might not feel at a disadvantage because of my supposed
advantage over you. Let us stand together in the name of the miracle. So
that then you and I healed, have lessened further the density of the
belief in the uncorrectability of this illness or disease.&rdquo; You
see?

Somebody has to be willing to step out of the crab barrel. Why? So that
you can have an advantage over everyone else in the crab barrel? No. But
so that once out of the crab barrel, you can say, &ldquo;Look, come on!
I will stand here until you&rsquo;ve made it out. And I will encourage
you to come. You can see I&rsquo;m out&mdash;and you know I was in there
before.&rdquo;

Somebody has to bear witness to the miraculous. Someone has to give
evidence to the miraculous because everyone deserves to see that the
miraculous is actually absolutely normal and is everyone&rsquo;s
Birthright and that no one any longer needs to stand in ignorance of his
Birthright&mdash;accept it and suffer it, or suffer its absence.

How much is too much good? How much is too much good to wish for your
Brother? &ldquo;Well, God, please heal him enough so that he won&rsquo;t
draw attention, or his healing won&rsquo;t draw attention to him. Heal
him enough for him to feel really good even if he&rsquo;s not perfect
yet. Heal him enough so that his being whole can&rsquo;t be used by him
as justification for guilt or for further suffering. You see?

No! Stand with your Brother and you be an agent for change by finding no
miracle too grand or too excessive. But don&rsquo;t try to imagine what
that will be.

Take what I&rsquo;m saying within. Do the two-step. Ask the Father,
&ldquo;What is the truth here? Share with me the experience of the truth
here so that I&rsquo;m out of my head and into my heart where I feel the
truth. Help me be in the holy instant, in that place where I&rsquo;m
introducing nothing extraneous to or different from the Movement of God.
And help me experience what that is, so that in my experience of it I
find myself Knowing&mdash;not as a bit of information but as an
experience&mdash;the truth about my Brother. The truth about my Brother
that may go far beyond the most miraculous thing I could think of, where
the Meaning of completeness forever registers with me and causes me to
have a shift of perception in which I see my Brother embraced in the
Meaning and the experience of completeness forever.&rdquo; You see? You
don&rsquo;t know what that will be.

The holy instant is perhaps the most powerful idea expressed in the
Course. It&rsquo;s also the simplest because every single one of you has
the capacity to step into the holy instant. Each one of you has the
capacity to shut yourselves up, to silence your mind so that you can
listen. And in that silence, desire of the Father&mdash;of the Source of
your Being&mdash;to Know the truth. Why? So that you can facilitate the
miraculous. And so that you can let the miraculous in to you. And so
that you can recognize the miraculous in your day.

Now, needs are always specific. They are not usually specifically what
you think the needs are. But needs themselves, regardless of how you
interpret them, are specific. And this means that the answer to a need,
the truth that negates the lack is also very specific. And because
it&rsquo;s specific, you have no choice about what the answer will be.

Now the ego doesn&rsquo;t like that.

But the fact is, that your need is the evidence of your being out of
alignment with God in one way or another, or in denial of God in one way
or another. And therefore, the answer is that which specifically,
point-for-point, you might say, negates the belief that is creating the
need&mdash;negates the denial that&rsquo;s creating the experience of
need.

You say, &ldquo;I&rsquo;m having problems, and it&rsquo;s because of
this and that and the other thing. Father, help me get this, that and
the other thing so that the problem can be solved.&rdquo;

Now, it isn&rsquo;t this, that or the other thing that&rsquo;s needed,
of course. What&rsquo;s needed is really very simple &hellip; always.
It&rsquo;s your peace. It&rsquo;s you. [Big sigh] Letting out a sigh
that releases all the tension you&rsquo;ve been carrying and magnifying
and even valuing at times because of the benefits it gets you.  And so
the answer isn&rsquo;t complicated. The answer is you being utterly
simple, letting the simplicity of your need, of your lack, register with
you.  And what that almost always means is, you saying, &ldquo;I give
up. [chuckling] I give up my resistance against the Father &hellip;I
give up my resistance against fitting in &hellip; I give up my
resistance to cooperating, and in the absence of denying everything
around me, [sigh] being that full open consciousness in which
what&rsquo;s true can be seen, staring you in the face where it had been
all along.&rdquo;  It&rsquo;s again like the child fretting, who held in
the Father&rsquo;s arms, looks up at his Father&rsquo;s face and sees
his Father&rsquo;s eyes and remembers, &ldquo;Oh-h, yes, I&rsquo;m safe.
I don&rsquo;t need to be fretting. I can relax. I can be the Son I am
instead of the independent one that I&rsquo;m not, suffering from my
so-called state of independence. This is when the miraculous happens.

The miraculous is not the result of control exercised by you,
skillfully.

The miraculous is the result of humility&mdash;that which happens when
you do the two-step. And the miracle is what you experience there in the
intimacy you experience with God, in that place where God&rsquo;s laws
prevail, nothing else does. And you, in the peace and the pleasure and
the soul-satisfaction of being at one with your Father and nothing else,
and therefore, being at one with all of Creation, are able to
participate fully and wholly in the acknowledgement of the awesomeness
of Creation in which you are acknowledging &hellip; what? The miraculous
in everything you see. And in which you let the miraculous in. And in
which, by virtue of your participating in acknowledging the miraculous,
you facilitate the miraculous.

Mind you, I&rsquo;ve laid it out pretty clearly here. None of this is
some sort of private spiritual journey.  It&rsquo;s you in your daily
life recognizing the miraculous, facilitating the miraculous and letting
the miraculous in by virtue of involvement with your Brothers and
Sisters, involvement which does not let the justifications of the
absence of miracles to go unobjected to.  Where you do not allow the
inspiration that promotes miracles to remain covered over because you
are speaking up, moved by your clarity that has been the result of your
doing the two-step, on the spot, in your day.

It&rsquo;s about involvement, where you don&rsquo;t let the status quo
remain the status quo. It&rsquo;s about you stepping out of the crab
barrel and turning around and facilitating others leaving the crab
barrel, so that you don&rsquo;t need to feel guilty for your miracles.
And no one else has to feel jealous of your miracles because your
miracles are their miracles and you won&rsquo;t *be quiet about it until
they know it!*

Witness for your Brothers and Sisters all day long because that is your
function as a holy Son of God or a holy Daughter of God.

Do it, so that at the end of the day you can say, &ldquo;Yes, I was
witness to miracles! Yes, I let miracles in. And yes, I was the
facilitator of miracles.&rdquo;

Every time Paul sits down and lets me speak, he gives evidence to the
miraculous. Why do I say that? Because he lets that which illuminates
the miraculous, that which illuminates the truth come forth and be
manifest &ldquo;in the world.&rdquo; He lets it become manifest in his
relationships with all of you and lets me be manifest in the
relationships with all of you. You see? He let&rsquo;s the miraculous in
and he facilitates the miraculous by letting the miraculous that he let
in, *flow* in perfect appropriateness.

And the world &ldquo;needs this.&rdquo; And everyone you know who is not
experiencing completeness needs active witnesses on their
behalf&mdash;witnesses to what is true about them.

Nothing is too good for you. Nothing is too good for your Brother. And
there&rsquo;s nothing too good that you could wish for your Brother and
take time to join with the Father to experience the truth of as an
experience, so that you might be with your Brother in a brand new way,
at a brand new level that inspires him to have the experience of
completeness that identifies completeness, wholeness, healing.

Take this to heart. God takes you to heart. And in His heart
completeness forever is yours. Take this to heart. Share it with your
Brother so that he might find completeness forever in the completeness
forever that you&rsquo;re finding, because you let yourself into the
Heart of God.

It&rsquo;s beautiful. It&rsquo;s simple. But it requires you not to
minimize and justify the minimalization of the miraculous.

I look forward to being with you next week.

