---
title: Jun 12, 2010
ref: "T16.5 Specialness and Guilt"
alink: "/acim/text/16/chap1605/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

Again, this week I&rsquo;m going to start off a sentence or three before
where we ended when we last read from the Text:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
On this side of the bridge to timelessness you understand nothing. But
as you step lightly across it, upheld BY timelessness, you are directed
straight to the Heart of God. At Its center, and ONLY there, you are
safe forever, because you are COMPLETE forever. There is no veil the
Love of God in us together cannot lift. The way to truth is open. Follow
it with me.[^1]
</div>

So we&rsquo;ve just talked about the holy instant. We&rsquo;ve just
talked about the two-step. As you step lightly across the bridge to
timelessness, you are directed straight to the Heart of God.

That&rsquo;s another way of saying that when you choose to become still,
to abandon the great value you place on your capacity to think and
reason and come to excellent conclusions and you are willing to abide in
the stillness, the Presence of God in your mind as your Mind, can begin
to register with you. That is what the words mean that say:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you are directed straight to the Heart of God.
</div>

In the silence there is nothing left for you to experience but the Heart
of God. There is nothing left for you to experience but your right Mind.
There is nothing else for you to experience but the Father&rsquo;s
Perspective.

And I&rsquo;ll take this moment here to suggest to you that when you
ask, &ldquo;God, &ldquo;What is the truth here?&rdquo; or &ldquo;Father,
what is the truth here?&rdquo; and then you be still and listen,
I&rsquo;m going to suggest that you also, from time to time, to say,
&ldquo;Mother, what is your Perspective here?&rdquo;
&mdash;Father/Mother/God&mdash;because you have a bias.

If you say, &ldquo;Father, what is the truth here? What is the truth
about my fellowman? What is the truth about what is needed here?&rdquo;
you have certain expectations as to what the answer will be that are
different from the expectations you would have if you said,
&ldquo;Mother (with a capital &lsquo;M,&rsquo; meaning God) what is Your
Perspective? What is the truth here? What do I need to know about my
fellowman?&rdquo;

It will be a good thing to engage in this practice because God is God,
neither Mother nor Father, but embracing all, including all, embodying
all that the words, &ldquo;Father&rdquo; and &ldquo;Mother&rdquo; mean.
Your Father is tender. Your Father is gentle. Your Mother is firm. Your
Mother is unyielding when it comes to sticking with the truth. Your
Father is principled. Your Father is direct. Your Mother is sweet. Your
Father is sweet. So when you ask of God, &ldquo;What is the truth
here?&rdquo; be sure that you are letting all that God Is, &ldquo;Father
and Mother&rdquo; enrich your answers because you&rsquo;re not holding
the answers to a masculine or a feminine only character.

This will broaden your experience of what God Is and it will broaden
your experience of what you Are.

Now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
At Its center&hellip;
</div>

the Heart of God &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
and ONLY there, you are safe forever, because you are COMPLETE
forever.
</div>

And we talked at some length last week about completeness relative to
wholeness, relative to healing. And the fact that
wholeness&mdash;meaning total functionality, total
perfection&mdash;embodied is your Birthright. And not to be experiencing
It is, for lack of better words, a matter of laziness on your part
because you&rsquo;re not objecting and you&rsquo;re not taking hold of
the truth about You, you&rsquo;re not taking hold of completeness and
expecting to see It, because completeness is the fact.

But what gets in the way of the experience of completeness? That&rsquo;s
what&rsquo;s covered in this next section. If you are going to choose
for completion, you are going to stop choosing for what? . . the special
relationship. And what is the special relationship?

Okay. The special relationship is: Any relationship you have with
anything when God is not part of the perspective you are experiencing
that relationship with. Most everyone tends to think that a special
relationship is something you have with a Brother or a Sister. But
it&rsquo;s not true.

A special relationship, again, is: Any relationship you have with
anything without the Father&rsquo;s Perspective being any part of your
awareness of that relationship, which means, whether it&rsquo;s a table
or a flower or a fingernail or a chair. If you&rsquo;re not seeing it
with the Father&rsquo;s Perspective, you&rsquo;re seeing it with a
private perspective that you have developed, that you have grown or that
others have developed and grown and taught you about. And it&rsquo;s a
relationship with a definition you have, rather than a relationship with
something that you are experiencing through your Father&rsquo;s Eyes,
which is another way of saying, experiencing it through the Holy
Spirit&mdash;which is nothing more than your right Mind, but is the
Father&rsquo;s Perspective, your true Birthright held in trust while you
dally with being independent.

Therefore, again, a special relationship is a relationship with anything
that you&rsquo;re engaging in with total independence all by yourself on
your own. And which therefore, constitutes an unreal or distorted
experience because you&rsquo;re not looking at it and experiencing it
through your sanity, through the Presence of your Father&rsquo;s Mind
which is your Mind by virtue of your being your Father&rsquo;s Son, your
Father&rsquo;s Daughter.

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In looking at the special relationship, it is necessary first to realize
that it involves a great amount of pain.
</div>

Well, you don&rsquo;t want to do that. You&rsquo;d rather gloss it over
and make the best of all of your relationships that you&rsquo;re having
without God being in the picture and without God&rsquo;s Perspective
being yours in any way. I mean, you can manage to have a fairly decent
relationship, you can manage to have a fairly decent social
interaction&mdash;social life. Why look at the fact that it involves a
great amount of pain even though it&rsquo;s not really that happy an
experience?

Nevertheless, in looking at the special relationship, which you have to
do in order to make a choice, you have to look at what you&rsquo;re
making a choice between.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; it is necessary first to realize that it involves a great
amount of pain. Anxiety, despair, guilt and attack all enter into it,
broken into by periods in which they SEEM to be gone.
</div>

Now&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Anxiety, despair, guilt and attack &hellip;
</div>

We&rsquo;ve already talked at length about the fact that when you got
your divorce from the Father and you said, &ldquo;I&rsquo;d rather see
things my way,&rdquo; you suddenly discovered that your infinite
perspective was gone and you were tiny&mdash;not infinite anymore
because you had, in effect, denied that which is infinite about you
&hellip; &ldquo;I&rsquo;d rather do it my way &hellip; my way &hellip;
my way &hellip; my way! And your way is little. It is not infinite.

And immediately when you did that, when you made that decision and you
tried to embody it&mdash;implement it&mdash;two things came into play:
The experience of fear and the experience of guilt. They&rsquo;re
inseparable, they go hand in hand and they go hand in hand with a
decision anyone makes to look at things their own way&mdash;to deny the
Father&rsquo;s Perspective, which is their Perspective. Because in spite
of their attempt to be independent, in spite of their attempt to be an
orphan, they are not orphans. They&rsquo;re still the direct
expression&mdash;the full expression&mdash;of God.

Nevertheless:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Anxiety, despair, guilt and attack [all] enter into it, broken into by
periods in which they SEEM to be gone.
</div>

You get a little bit of peace. And there&rsquo;s a reason you get a
little bit of peace. We&rsquo;ll talk about it in a minute.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
All these must be understood for what they are.
</div>

Anxiety, despair, guilt and attack. What are they? They&rsquo;re the
spontaneous and unavoidable effects of claiming to be an independent
agent and insisting upon giving your full attention only to what you are
choosing to think and reason about and come to conclusions about.

They are the effect of total selfishness.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Whatever form they take, they are always an attack on the self to make
the OTHER guilty.
</div>

Mind you, anxiety is uncomfortable, despair is uncomfortable, guilt is
uncomfortable and being the recipient of attack is uncomfortable and
engaging in attack is uncomfortable&mdash;uncomfortable for you!

That which makes you uncomfortable can easily and correctly be
identified as attack. So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Whatever form they take, they are always an attack on &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; who? The one that&rsquo;s uncomfortable. Who&rsquo;s
uncomfortable? You&rsquo;re uncomfortable! Why are you uncomfortable?
Because you said, &ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;d rather pretend I don&rsquo;t
have a Father. Father, I would rather commit my Mind to a biased and
partial awareness in which You are not present and I am all that
is.&rdquo;

Since the discomfort is a result of that act on your part of
independence and you really don&rsquo;t want to take credit for it, you
use it to make others guilty. You say, &ldquo;I live in a conflicted
world. I live in a world that isn&rsquo;t safe. I live in a world where
everything is polarized and expresses good and bad, positive and
negative and the conflict between these positives and negatives are
making me miserable.&rdquo; &ldquo;The devil made me do it!&rdquo;
&ldquo;I&rsquo;m uncomfortable because my Brother mistreated me.&rdquo;
&ldquo;I&rsquo;m uncomfortable because I&rsquo;m the victim of an unfair
situation or circumstance.&rdquo;

So, the despair, guilt, attack and anxiety that one experiences by
virtue of an inner decision to act as though one is an orphan when he
isn&rsquo;t, becomes the justification for blaming another for
one&rsquo;s discomfort. That is not intelligent. That is insane.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
We have spoken of this before, but there are some aspects of what is
really being attempted that we have not touched upon.

Very simply, the attempt to make guilty is ALWAYS directed against
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what do you think? Your Brother? The circumstances? The
polarized world? You? for having made a decision to pretend you&rsquo;re
an independent, self-authorized agent? No &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; God. For the ego would have you see Him, and Him ALONE, as
guilty, leaving the Sonship open to attack, and unprotected from it.
</div>

So now, the anxiety, the despair, the guilt and the attack are
God&rsquo;s fault. You&rsquo;re experiencing them because God has left
you unprotected. God is guilty of not loving you, of not being Love, of
not being trustworthy, of not being something you can dare to lean into
and yield into with confidence.

Now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The special love relationship is the ego&rsquo;s chief weapon &hellip;
</div>

or we could say, the special love relationship is the
orphan&rsquo;s chief weapon &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
for keeping you from Heaven. It does not APPEAR to be a
weapon&hellip;
</div>

the special love relationship &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
but it you consider HOW you value it and WHY, you will realize
what it must be.
</div>

Well, we&rsquo;ve just described it. It is a means of substituting an
unreal relationship for your relationship with your Father, which keeps
you stuck in a state of orphanhood that is not true about you and causes
you to distrust God, Who you no longer recognize as your Father, but
simply a &ldquo;Supreme Being,&rdquo; superior over everything, Who may
or may not be kind, Who may or may not save you. And this keeps you from
entrusting yourself to your Father.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The special love relationship is the ego&rsquo;s chief weapon for
keeping you from Heaven&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; for keeping you away from your Father, from keeping you away
from your unchallenged and unchallengeable awareness of your holiness
right here and right now that would allow you to lay down your defenses
and let your completeness in and let it register with you, and let it be
what gets shared with everyone and everything, thus changing special
relationships to holy relationships.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The special love relationship is the ego&rsquo;s most boasted gift, and
one which has the most appeal to those unwilling to relinquish guilt.
</div>

You&rsquo;re ready to relinquish guilt&mdash;guilt trips that others are
laying on you&mdash;but you&rsquo;re not really willing to relinquish
laying guilt trips on others. You value guilt because guilt is a
wonderful tool for control.

And so, everyone to one degree or another, learns how to use guilt
effectively to accomplish things that serve him whether it&rsquo;s to
another&rsquo;s disadvantage or not.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The "dynamics" of the ego are clearest here, for counting on the
attraction of this offering, the fantasies which center around it are
often quite open.
</div>

In other words, they&rsquo;re blatant. They&rsquo;re clearly loveless.
But it&rsquo;s okay.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Here they are usually judged to be acceptable, and even natural.
</div>

So when you get a group of orphans together, all of whom love to use
guilt as tool for control, it seems quite normal for it to be going on.
It can be hidden in jovial bantering or it can be forthright in an
argument. But, hey, ya know, you might say, &ldquo;This is what guys
do.&rdquo; You could also say, &ldquo;This is what women do.&rdquo; So
it&rsquo;s considered normal. It&rsquo;s not called into question. And
no choice is made for completion. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
No one considers it bizarre to love and hate together, and even those
who believe that hate is sin merely feel guilty, and do not correct it.
</div>

You see, guilt is really a rather effective way to pay for doing
something unintelligent and insane without having to stop, without
having to change, without having to make a choice, in other words.

Love and hate are both aspects of the special love relationship.

Yes, it could be called a special hate relationship. But that is not
what the ego boasts of. It boasts of the special love relationship. And
like in a hidden clause&mdash;in the concept of special love
relationship&mdash;it includes a special hate relationship, which allows
the two to be used together with greater power and greater effect than
just the use of guilt. Guilt can be used to coerce anyone into almost
anything. But if love that isn&rsquo;t truly love, love that is not what
one feels about one&rsquo;s Brother or about some part of Creation
because one is enjoying the Father&rsquo;s Perspective on His own
Creation that&rsquo;s real Love, but when love is a pattern of behavior
that is planned for certain effect and it is constituted of what one
knows others will like and it is used in conjunction with guilt, now you
have a two-pronged tool, you might say, for control. &ldquo;You stroke
my back, I&rsquo;ll stroke yours. You don&rsquo;t stroke my back and
boy, all hell will break loose on you.&rdquo;

Now you don&rsquo;t lay it out that honestly to your Brother and Sister.
But you behave in a &ldquo;loving way&rdquo; doing all the right things
to create pleasure in your Brother or Sister. And your Brother or Sister
enjoys the attention, what you might call the affection, and feels safe
with you and willing to trust you. But then if they do something you
don&rsquo;t like, you attack them. And you attack them by making them
feel guilty.

Now when you make them feel guilty, they don&rsquo;t get any of your
love&mdash;something that is important to them. They feel that whatever
kind attention they receive is significant, because, since they are an
orphan and do not have the experience of their Father/Mother&rsquo;s
love, any kind attention is significant, meaningful, especially since it
makes them feel safe in this world that they perceive as polarized
because they have decided to relate to it without employing the
Father&rsquo;s Perspective themselves.

So, love and hate are two parts of the special love relationship. The
special love relationship again, being: Any relationship you have with
anything that doesn&rsquo;t involve the Father&rsquo;s Perspective.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
No one considers it bizarre to love and hate together, and even those
who believe that hate is sin merely feel guilty, and do not correct it.

This IS the "natural" condition of the separation&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; of the human condition&mdash;meaning the state of being that is
unjoined with the Father&mdash;where it&rsquo;s possible for you to
think you&rsquo;re just the effect of the joining of a couple of blobs
of matter called a sperm and an egg &hellip; pure chance &hellip; no God
&hellip; no order &hellip; no &hellip; as they put it,
&ldquo;Intelligent design.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This IS the "natural" condition of the separation, and those who learn
that it is not natural at all seem to be the UNNATURAL ones.
</div>

Don&rsquo;t you all at times feel that you&rsquo;re considered unnatural
because of your point of view?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For this world IS the opposite of Heaven, being MADE to be its opposite,
and everything here takes a direction exactly opposite of what is true.
</div>

Mind you, this statement is not a statement of truth where it says,
&ldquo;For this world IS the opposite of Heaven.&rdquo; This world is
the visibility and tangibility of, for lack of better words, the Mind of
God. It is the Kingdom of Heaven and nothing else. But &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
this world IS the opposite of Heaven, being MADE to be its
opposite&hellip;
</div>

what does that mean? It means that when you abandoned your
relationship with your Father, when you said, &ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;d
rather see things my way,&rdquo; you saw the world in a way foreign to
the Father&rsquo;s Perspective. You made the world into something else.
And it couldn&rsquo;t possibly be like Heaven because if it was like
Heaven, you would experience it as Heaven and you would find you
hadn&rsquo;t succeeded in getting your divorce from your
Father&mdash;you hadn&rsquo;t managed to become independent.

And so in order for you to actually feel that you&rsquo;re
different&mdash;that you are independent&mdash;you must have changed the
meanings of the world into something different from Heaven. So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
this world IS the opposite of Heaven, being MADE to be its
opposite, and everything here takes a direction exactly opposite of what
is true.
</div>

You behave in the world in a way inconsistent with it being the Kingdom
of Heaven. And you use it for purposes that are completely opposite to
what it is as the Kingdom of Heaven. And that is why anxiety, despair,
guilt and attack accompany you. And this is why you have something to
choose between when you&rsquo;re choosing for completion, for wholeness,
for healing, for the visible, tangible embodiment of the perfection of
the Father&rsquo;s Mind and of every exquisite idea in your
Father&rsquo;s Mind, which includes the exquisite idea that you Are.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In Heaven&hellip;
</div>

in other words, right here &hellip; right where you are with
everything that&rsquo;s here.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In Heaven, where the meaning of love is known, love is the same as
UNION.
</div>

You see? Special relationships are the opposite of union. Special
relationships are relationships between disconnected entities,
disconnected from each other and disconnected from a Source beyond the
confines of the independent agent&mdash;the orphan. And so union is
impossible. Approximations of union&mdash;a hug, intercourse, a kiss, a
caress&mdash;make one feel as though union is present, but it&rsquo;s
just an approximation of union.

It&rsquo;s like kids: they make a cut on their finger and they press
their fingers together and they think, co-mingle their blood and become
blood brothers. You see? Not real brothers but blood brothers.

Well, egos attempt to be family, but it can&rsquo;t be consummated, it
can&rsquo;t be actually embodied. But family is what everything already
Is. Family is what everyone already Is because there are no orphans and
there are no Creations of God, no holy Sons and Daughters of God who are
different or separate from their Father&mdash;period, ever!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Here&hellip;
</div>

meaning in this world that&rsquo;s the opposite of Heaven.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Here, where the illusion of love is accepted in love&rsquo;s place, love
is perceived as separation and EXCLUSION.

It is in the special relationship, born of the hidden wish for special
love from God, that the ego&rsquo;s hatred triumphs. For the special
relationship is the RENUNCIATION of the love of God, and the attempt to
secure for the self the specialness which He &hellip;
</div>

God &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
denied.
</div>

You see? The holy Son of God says, &ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;d rather see
things my way. I don&rsquo;t accept anymore the way You see
things.&rdquo; And immediately, he finds himself feeling fear and guilt.
What&rsquo;s the rest of it? . . anxiety, despair, guilt and attack
&hellip; miserable. And then, totally ignoring that the experience is
caused by a decision the holy Son of God made, the holy Son of God now
experiencing himself as an orphan says, &ldquo;God hates me.&rdquo;

Now, there probably isn&rsquo;t any one of you right now, at least if
you&rsquo;re in a fairly good frame of mind, who would consider thinking
that God hates you &hellip; &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t think God hates me,
no.&rdquo;

But let me ask you this: Do you think you could dare to expect total
healing from a terminal illness or an injury for no good reason [snaps
fingers] right now? . . just because &hellip; just because it&rsquo;s
your Birthright and there is&mdash;because of your
Birthright&mdash;absolutely no justification for you to be experiencing
the injury or the illness any longer? If you don&rsquo;t think that
that&rsquo;s your Birthright to be experiencing [snaps fingers] at this
moment, then you have renounced the love of God. You are denying the
Father&rsquo;s Love.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is essential to the preservation of the ego &hellip;
</div>

I&rsquo;m going to back up.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For the special relationship is the RENUNCIATION of the love of God, and
the attempt to secure for the self the specialness which He &hellip;
</div>

God &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
denied.
</div>

Again, you wouldn&rsquo;t say He denied you your good, but you will say
you have no justification for expecting unequivocally that you can be
healed at this moment because God is your Source, the center and
circumference, the primitive and the ultimate of You.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is essential to the preservation of the ego that you believe this
specialness is not hell, but Heaven.
</div>

Hey, if you think that you can find a way to behave with your Brothers
and Sisters so that great harmony is brought forth without your
experiencing the Father&rsquo;s Perspective, in other words, without
your being sane, then what you&rsquo;re experiencing is hell &hellip; it
is insanity &hellip; very simply.

Here&rsquo;s where logic can help you. Because the moment it becomes
obvious to you that to not be able to expect to be healed
instantaneously, and then not to be healed instantaneously, is the
result of your insanity, and your insanity is constituted of your belief
that you can be an independent agent with a perspective and view point
all your own, you won&rsquo;t be in a position to say [snaps fingers]
&ldquo;I want nothing to do with that perspective anymore! It is insane
and I&rsquo;m going to abandon it. And I&rsquo;m going to abandon it by
doing something very specific: I&rsquo;m going to do the two-step.
I&rsquo;m going to practice the holy instant. I&rsquo;m going to become
still and I&rsquo;m going to abandon my independence and say,
&lsquo;Father/Mother, what is the truth here?&rsquo; And I will not
abandon that quest&mdash;that question. I will not abandon it until
I&rsquo;ve heard the answer, because that is when I will be experiencing
my sanity.&rdquo;

And I will tell you that when you&rsquo;re experiencing your sanity you
will also experience your healing.

Again:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is essential to the preservation of the ego &hellip;
</div>

to the ongoingness of the orphan state &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
that you believe this specialness is not hell, but Heaven. For
the ego would never have you see that separation can ONLY be loss, being
the one condition in which Heaven CANNOT be.
</div>

Heaven cannot be in the condition of loss. That&rsquo;s why we&rsquo;re
talking about the choice for completion. That&rsquo;s why we talked
about the choice of completion last week and the week before. And
it&rsquo;s why we&rsquo;re talking about specialness and guilt. Because
a choice has to be made, a conscious choice has to be made, a choice
wherein you come to the same conclusion that the practice of awareness,
I&rsquo;m going to say, that doesn&rsquo;t bring into it God&rsquo;s
Perspective is a self-inflicted insanity that isn&rsquo;t actual but
might as well be, until you change your mind.

Only then will you be in a position to change your mind, to make the
choice and begin to constantly bring the Father into your experience by
saying, &ldquo;Father, what is the truth here? What is the truth about
what&rsquo;s in front of me that I&rsquo;ve seen everyday for thirty
years and that I thought I knew the meaning of? What&rsquo;s the Real
meaning of it? Because I know that to me it doesn&rsquo;t represent the
Kingdom of Heaven. And yet I&rsquo;m told and I believe that it is the
Kingdom of Heaven and I want to experience It truly. Help me. I want to
have the experience &hellip; the experience of Your Perspective. I will
let You in. I am inviting You in. And I will leave the invitation
actively open until I have the experience.&rdquo;

You always do what you value. And if you&rsquo;re not listening for the
Father&rsquo;s Perspective, it&rsquo;s because you&rsquo;re valuing
something else. And what you&rsquo;re valuing is your perspective. Start
valuing and employing and magnifying your desire to know the
truth&mdash;the Father&rsquo;s truth &hellip; the Father&rsquo;s
Perspective.

You may not think that I&rsquo;ve given you anything practical to do, or
shared anything that you can use. But I will tell you, that I have
knocked down some false idols in every single one of your perceptions.
And you have been changed by what I have said. And the changes that have
occurred will cause you to perceive everything in new ways, without your
having to try to make those new ways happen.

And so I encourage you to enjoy this coming week with the changed
perceptions that you&rsquo;re going to be experiencing.

I love you all. And I look forward to being with your next week.

[^1]: T16.5 Specialness and Guilt

