---
title: Jun 19, 2010
ref: "T16.5 Specialness and Guilt"
alink: "/acim/text/16/chap1605/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

We&rsquo;re going to go right into the Book tonight.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To everyone Heaven is completion. There can be no disagreement on this,
because both the ego and the Holy Spirit accept it. They are, however,
in COMPLETE disagreement on what completion IS, and HOW it is
accomplished.[^1]
</div>

We have two key points now:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit knows that completion lies first in union&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the first part of the two-step, right?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and then in the extension of union.
</div>

Which is the second part of the two-step.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To the ego&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; this is the second point &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; completion lies in triumph, and in the extension of the
"victory" even to the final triumph over God. In this it sees the
ultimate freedom of the self, for nothing would remain to interfere with
IT. This IS its idea of Heaven.
</div>

We&rsquo;re going to talk a little bit tonight about listening: About
how important it is, and about how it&rsquo;s experienced and about how
one must live with it.

It&rsquo;s not insignificant. It is the most significant thing any of
you can engage in. Because it&rsquo;s the means by which you come Home.
It&rsquo;s the means by which you come back into your right Mind. And I
know you&rsquo;ve heard me say this over and over and over again. Hm-m
&hellip; and some think, &ldquo;Raj, why can&rsquo;t you say something
new?&rdquo;

When it&rsquo;s time to say something new, I will say something new. In
the meantime, I will say what&rsquo;s needed because what&rsquo;s needed
is what will help get all of us to something new.

Arriving at completion is accomplished by silencing human will,
silencing your personal private intent and reaching outside of it,
reaching out to God or reaching out to the Voice for truth, which is the
Voice for God, which is the Holy Spirit, which is nothing more than your
right Mind&mdash;your sanity.

Now, I&rsquo;ve talked in the last few weeks about the fact that when
you listen and you hear, you may not be happy with what you hear. And
the simple fact is, that others may not be happy with what you hear
either. And so, listening will either be something you abandon because
it&rsquo;s &ldquo;too much work&rdquo; or it&rsquo;s something you will
become even more intent upon&mdash;I did not say, &ldquo;intense,&rdquo;
more intent upon&mdash;more disciplined around. And in spite of the
distress you might be feeling or the distress others might be feeling,
you will step aside from the emotional reactions, and in the quietness
of your Being&mdash;in the quietness of your Mind&mdash;you will persist
even further in listening.

I&rsquo;m going to talk for a few minutes about three individuals who
listened. And you know, if you ever wonder how hard you should listen,
how intently you should listen, think of these three individuals.

You see, the question is, &ldquo;How hard do you listen to God?&rdquo;
How hard do you listen?

Let&rsquo;s take Abraham: Abraham, a God-fearing man. A man whose life
was devoted to God. And he listened to God and God told him to sacrifice
his son. Well, here&rsquo;s a situation where most would [chuckle]
abandon the act of listening. They would say, &ldquo;This is too hard!
This is absolutely unreasonable!&rdquo;

But if one doesn&rsquo;t have that response, what does one do instead?

Well, one listens like one has never listened before. After all, you
love your son. The last thing you would consider would be to sacrifice
him, even for God. And yet, if your commitment is to God, you&rsquo;re
going to listen further and you&rsquo;re going to have to come to a
point where you make a decision as to what is going to be the basis for
your being in the world.

Is it going to be the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s Viewpoint or is it going to be
the ego&rsquo;s viewpoint. Is it going to be listening to God or is it
going to be thinking for your self.

When it comes to sacrificing your son or daughter or a loved one, you
had best listen like you&rsquo;ve never listened before.

Now I don&rsquo;t mean that as a threat. What I mean by that is, you
will need to let the Guidance you&rsquo;ve received lead you to a level
of honest listening, wherein you are providing no distractions to become
the whole of your willingness&mdash;not willfulness&mdash;the whole of
your conscious awareness, the whole of your commitment to the moment
that is in front of you and the situation that is in front of you.

Well, you say, &ldquo;That was Abraham and, you know, we don&rsquo;t
have circumstances like that these days. I would never be called upon to
have to be that committed.&rdquo; And I&rsquo;m going to ask you why
wouldn&rsquo;t you want to be that committed? Why wouldn&rsquo;t you
want to be engaged wholly, without reservation in that Place&mdash;in
the silence&mdash;and in your desire to know of the Father where the
laws of God prevail, and where in that union your completion lies, why
would you not care to be there doing that if it meant Waking up, if it
meant uncovering to you the conscious experience of your completion, of
your wholeness, of your perfection, in which that perfection can no
longer seem to be violated because herein is where the laws of God
prevail?

Your mindset has to change about what it&rsquo;s going to take and how
you&rsquo;re going to interpret what it&rsquo;s going to take. You can
interpret it as a humongous burden that you are incapable of bearing,
but the opposite of that isn&rsquo;t that it&rsquo;s a humongous burden
which you are capable of carrying. The opposite of that is that there is
a frame of mind in which you are not allowing doubt to disintegrate the
unity of your mind and which, therefore, constitutes a place where
wholeness is easy to experience, where wholeness is what is natural and
inviolable.&rdquo;

You have to arrive at the point where it&rsquo;s worth it to you to
engage like that because the experience that results is
miraculous&mdash;truly miraculous!

&ldquo;&hellip; Oh-h, ya know, I tried listening &hellip; ya know,
I&rsquo;ve done it a number of times ever since I first started
listening to Raj and he talked about it &hellip; you know, I&rsquo;ve
tried listening and you know, sometimes I felt like I was connecting
with something &hellip; uh &hellip; but uh &hellip; most of the time
nothing happened and I didn&rsquo;t really feel like putting more effort
into it &hellip; more commitment into it &hellip; . . more resolve into
it.&rdquo; You see?

Okay. Let&rsquo;s take a look at someone else. And before I do,
let&rsquo;s remember that with Abraham, all of this was going on in the
privacy of his mind. He didn&rsquo;t share with anyone what his Guidance
was, and he didn&rsquo;t prepare to carry out his Guidance in public
view.

But what about Noah? Noah listened to Guidance and he heard something
outrageous. And his outrageous Guidance couldn&rsquo;t be kept a secret.
When you start to build an ark in a village that isn&rsquo;t a seaside
village, it draws attention and it draws comments. And it draws ridicule
and it draws laughter and it draws disagreement not only from the
villagers, but perhaps, from his family. I mean, can you imagine that
his wife didn&rsquo;t say something to him about what a fool he was
making of himself and of her and of the rest of the household and
family?

What do you do when that happens?

Well, maybe you stop building the ark &hellip; and you drown. Maybe you
say, &ldquo;I really don&rsquo;t want to upset my wife, I love her too
much, she&rsquo;s been faithful to me all these years, she doesn&rsquo;t
deserve this kind of hell, especially when I can&rsquo;t justify it
&hellip; I love her too much. And God really wouldn&rsquo;t ask me to do
something that would cause her to feel disgraced and harmed and
disrespected and unloved, therefore, it&rsquo;s perfectly reasonable for
me to stop this bullshit and fit in.&rdquo;

But that isn&rsquo;t what he did. He listened further. He listened
further, made commitment to what he heard, found nothing more important
in the world to do than engage in the two-step, go into the silence, ask
of the Father or the Holy Spirit, what was appropriate, what to do next,
and when he heard, he either questioned it further and listened further,
or having arrived at point of understanding, made resolve to act upon
and do it. Which he did!

Can you imagine, under the circumstances of what he was given to do and
where he had to do it, what kind of listening it took, what kind of
resolve it took? And again, is this more resolve than you&rsquo;re
willing to do&mdash;to engage in? Is it a burden too heavy to carry?

Or is it perhaps, an opportunity to make a switch in yourself and
consider the possibility that engaging in the resolve is to engage
yourself in a state of mind and a way of being in your mind that
it&rsquo;s truly your Birthright to be involved in, and that because
it&rsquo;s your Birthright, it&rsquo;s the easiest thing in the world
even though it doesn&rsquo;t seem natural to you at the moment. And that
if you will engage in it with that kind of resolve, [snaps fingers] the
sudden shift of perception, that is what a miracle is, will
occur&mdash;or I&rsquo;ll say, can occur.

Let there be willingness to find out if it can occur &hellip; if it will
occur. Because after all, that&rsquo;s what the Course is
about&mdash;this book that you love, this teaching that you&rsquo;ve
studied for years. It&rsquo;s about Waking up. Following through when
you&rsquo;re really hearing, because under the stress of the
circumstances you persisted honestly and diligently.

That&rsquo;s the fruit of it. The fruits of it is what it&rsquo;s all
about. The miracle is what it&rsquo;s all about.

Again, you have to arrive at a point where it&rsquo;s worth it to you to
risk the chance that there is a God&mdash;listen for Him with all your
might, with all of your capacity and with all of your persistence.

Now, the third individual we&rsquo;re going to look at is Moses. Moses
listened. You think I&rsquo;m going to talk about the Ten Commandments.
Well, I wasn&rsquo;t. But he did listen and he did receive the Ten
Commandments&mdash;the laws of God that were needed at that point and he
brought them back down from the mountain.

Oh-h&hellip; this time it&rsquo;s not family and friends but it&rsquo;s
all the people who have been following him. And they&rsquo;re too busy
with ungodly things, we&rsquo;ll say, to give any valued attention to
what he had had the commitment to listen to, or to listen for. And it
burned him up and he broke the tablets &hellip; and what? He had to do
it all over again, because that&rsquo;s the only thing you can do when
you have a commitment to God.

But that&rsquo;s not what I was going to talk about. What I was going to
talk about was the experience of coming up to the Red Sea with thousands
of Israelites behind him running from Pharaoh and Pharaoh&rsquo;s army.
And he comes up, obviously from Guidance, because they followed a pillar
of Light during the day, right?&mdash;devotion to the evidence of the
Father&rsquo;s Will was there. And now here they are in front of the Red
Sea, Pharaoh&rsquo;s army behind them, no place to go. Man, do you think
he really listened at that point? You better believe it!

Do you think you shouldn&rsquo;t, in this day and age, have to listen
like that?

Well, if he hadn&rsquo;t listened, he would have sat down in a heap and
said, &ldquo;I give up.&rdquo; And Pharaoh&rsquo;s army would have
over-taken them. You see? . . and no miracle!

&ldquo;God, what are you doing? You brought me here, you brought all of
us here to this dead-end and there&rsquo;s no way out from it. I know
there&rsquo;s no way out from it. Are You a loving God or not? Or am I
just now finding out what you&rsquo;re truly like &hellip; sneaky,
dishonest, mean-spirited. You just love to taunt us with the possibility
of good and then you lead us up to a dead-end.&rdquo;

That&rsquo;s not listening, that&rsquo;s doing a hell of a lot of
willful talking and willful self-assertion.

But you know what? It&rsquo;s when you&rsquo;re at that point where
everything in you says that what is ahead of you is impossible, that
listening allows for the demonstration of God with us&mdash;the
Father&rsquo;s Perspective, your sanity coming through the Voice for
truth to you.

&ldquo;What God? You want me to hold my rod up, sort of at the Red Sea?
They&rsquo;re going to think I&rsquo;m a fool (everyone around). You
can&rsquo;t be serious!&rdquo;

&ldquo;Hold it up Moses!&rdquo; And the impossible happened! The
miraculous happened! And the Israelites went across on dry ground.

This is the way the two-step works. This is the way the holy instant
works. And if in the process you find yourself a little bit or a lot
inconvenienced and put in a position that goes beyond any capacity you
think you have, stick with it, because that&rsquo;s where the pearl
lies, that&rsquo;s where the answer is. And what&rsquo;s the answer?
It&rsquo;s that which undoes the impossibility.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit knows that completion lies first in union, and then in
the extension of union.
</div>

The extension of the union: Holding his rod up! In other words,
extending, embodying the Father&rsquo;s will, embodying the Guidance,
being true to that union within that&rsquo;s causing what&rsquo;s needed
to become obvious so that you can embody it.

But now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To the ego, completion lies in triumph&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; triumph &hellip; that&rsquo;s where the orphan does things on
its own, not in union, not engaging in the two-step. It does things on
its own and thinks it succeeds.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and in the extension of the "victory" even to the final triumph
over God.
</div>

In other words &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To the ego, completion lies in triumph, and in the extension of the
"victory" even to the final triumph over God.
</div>

&ldquo;You see, God, I did make something of myself. I didn&rsquo;t need
You after all.&rdquo;

Hey, Moses did that too! He was frustrated as you and everyone else,
including Paul, become frustrated. His people needed water and there was
no water. And so independently, without listening, he asserted what he
thought was a divine capacity of his own. And so at his hand, not at the
behest of God, he struck a rock and water began to pour forth. He
succeeded. And you know what? He did it without God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In this it sees the ultimate freedom of the self, for nothing would
remain to interfere with IT.
</div>

You know, when you get&mdash;I was going to say, between a rock and a
hard place&mdash;between the rock that you would smite for water and the
hard place where you do the two-step and abandon any authority you think
you have so that you can ask of the Father what the truth is that causes
the sudden shift of perception, that allows for a miracle&hellip; when
you&rsquo;re in between the rock and the hard place, choose for the hard
place, choose for the place where you must bring further commitment to
your listening, so that in the further abandonment of your inclination
to act on your own, you become truer to the Will of the Father in you
that is You.

And in becoming truer to the Will of God in you that is You, you feel
the cohesiveness, you feel the unity and you feel the completion, and
the miracle, the blessing occurs. The ark carries everyone to safety.
The Red Sea parts and you pass over safely, or your devotion to God
brings you to a point of inner clarity that you had never experienced
before&mdash;that harm could never be the result of obedience to God,
just as Abraham found, so that his commitment from then on far exceeded
anything that he had ever brought to it before.

I&rsquo;m sharing this because that&rsquo;s where we all are in our
learning. And that&rsquo;s what&rsquo;s here to be learned. And
I&rsquo;m also sharing it because it&rsquo;s where Paul is. And wherever
Paul is, is a place that all of you are, in one way or another.

And so, what I&rsquo;m talking about tonight is not airy-fairy theory.
It&rsquo;s a very practical truth for Paul and every one of you today,
tonight, this morning, wherever you happen to be on the globe, whenever
you might be hearing this.

Listening and hearing Guidance is where you learn the meaning of trust.
And if you do not bring trust into play, you will never learn what is
really trustworthy, you will never find That which doesn&rsquo;t crumble
in the face of your trust. Without trust you won&rsquo;t really yield.
Abraham yielded. Noah yielded. Moses yielded, not as a lark but from a
very deep inner place that was arrived at because of the utter devotion
to listening that was brought into play.

Now, don&rsquo;t make too much work out of this: &ldquo;the utter
devotion to listening.&rdquo; You know what? If you utterly abandon the
distractions to listening, listening is deep, listening if full,
listening is ultimate, not because you&rsquo;re doing something with
great intensity but because you&rsquo;re neglecting to do anything that
covers up the miracle.

So like I said, don&rsquo;t make work out of this. That isn&rsquo;t
required. But do realize that it is going to take some discipline.

What I have told Paul and Susan &hellip; and you know, all of you
villagers standing around while Paul and Susan get to the business of
building their ark in plain sight, where everybody can have thoughts and
opinions about it, and do, and voice them, good and bad, what it calls
for is for greater devotion to listening on Paul&rsquo;s part and on
Susan&rsquo;s part so as to be able to hear the fuller, deeper meaning
that allows for the impossible to be recognizably possible and for its
possibility to be facilitated and for everyone to rejoice.

And Paul must do this daring to believe that that degree of listening
will not make a fool out of him and will indeed uncover the experience
of God&rsquo;s laws being fulfilled, of God&rsquo;s laws prevailing, so
that when I say to Paul, &ldquo;Here is where the breeze is
moving,&rdquo; he will become as flexible as the breeze, as easy as the
breeze. You know, it&rsquo;s not a hurricane, it&rsquo;s a breeze, it
seems to have no force to it, yet I have likened the breeze to the
Movement of Creation.

The Move of the Foundation&mdash;the Northwest Foundation For A Course
In Miracles&mdash;seems to involve impossibilities, seems to involve
controversy, seems to involve dissonance, disagreement, bad feelings and
good feelings. But you know what will resolve them? Not dealing with
them, but listening with even greater commitment, listening with even
greater willingness, meaning listening with less willfulness, listening
with less of the inclination to find a rock to smite and make something
happen, all by yourself, that will relieve the tension, even though
relieving the tension won&rsquo;t constitute uncovering the sudden shift
of perception that is a miracle.

The dynamics around the Foundation&rsquo;s present location with the
street and the shrubbery being torn up and the noise and the dust and
everything else, has been disturbing. And Paul found himself becoming
significantly reactive. It even surprised him that he was bothered that
much. And in fact, this afternoon he seriously wondered whether he would
be able to carry out the study group this evening.

Nevertheless, his resolve and his commitment prevailed. And as a result
he has learned and is in a different place. And because he&rsquo;s like
you and you and you and you and all of you, you&rsquo;re in a different
place and you have learned.

Most of all, this paragraph&mdash;this one single paragraph&mdash;that
we read tonight is more vibrant and relevant than you might have thought
it could be. And that&rsquo;s important.

I love you all.

It&rsquo;s your Birthright and your natural ability to be Abraham, Noah
and Moses. To embody the two-step as they did. And to persist when
you&rsquo;re between the rock and the hard place, in choosing for the
hard place, choosing for yielding to the Father&rsquo;s Will instead of
yielding to the temptation to take things into your own hands. And to
yield to the Father&rsquo;s Will as though your sons or daughters&rsquo;
life depended on it.

You see, what you need to discover is that that&rsquo;s not asking too
much. That&rsquo;s just asking what&rsquo;s bottom line natural to you
all. Something you&rsquo;re all capable of.

I look forward to being with your next week.

[^1]: T16.5 Specialness and Guilt

