---
title: Jul 10, 2010
ref: "T31.4 Self Concept versus Self"
alink: "/acim/text/31/chap3104/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

Well, I know most everyone is curious and interested in what is going on
with the move of the Foundation to a new location, and so I will not
delay.

As of yesterday, I sent out a letter&mdash;an email&mdash;and posted it
also on our website. And in it I explained that of the seven hundred and
nineteen thousand dollars that the new property costs, we now have all
of it except a hundred and sixty-two thousand, four hundred forty-three
dollars. That was as of yesterday.

Since yesterday, the phone has rung off the hook and notifications have
come through online of contributions amounting to thirty-two thousand
three hundred and sixty three dollars, which means that now
there&rsquo;s only a balance of one hundred and thirty thousand dollars
needed in order to secure the property.

Last night at approximately two in the morning, Paul&rsquo;s cell phone
&ldquo;dinged&rdquo; indicating there was an email. So he opened it up
and it said that someone had just made a credit card contribution of
twenty thousand dollars.

Now, as Paul told someone today, he&rsquo;s not used to this kind of
thing. Neither he nor Susan are used to the kind of expressions of
support for an activity that they are involved in. It&rsquo;s difficult
for them to know how to be with it.

Now, they&rsquo;re not special. And that&rsquo;s what I want to talk
about tonight. They&rsquo;re like you. And they, like you, are
learning&mdash;or need to learn&mdash;how to let God&rsquo;s Love in,
how to be willing to stand in receipt of it.

You know, we&rsquo;ve been reading from this Book for a long time. And
we&rsquo;ve been reading about the holy instant. We&rsquo;ve talked
about practicing the holy instant. Well now, Paul and Susan and all of
you are having the opportunity to have a better grasp of what the holy
instant is and what the practice of it amounts to and what its, if I may
put it this way, benefit is likely to be.

When you practice the holy instant, you, in the face of whatever&rsquo;s
going on in your life, whether it&rsquo;s good or bad, it&rsquo;s you
hesitating a moment&mdash;backing off from your spontaneous assessment
of the meaning of whatever is in your face&mdash;becoming silent and
saying, &ldquo;Father, what is the truth here?&rdquo; or &ldquo;Holy
Spirit, what is Your Perspective about this, because I&rsquo;ve been
told that You&rsquo;re nothing more than my right Mind. And so if You
will share with me what Your Perspective is about this, I know that
I&rsquo;m going to be getting an insight into what my true perspective
is about this and that&rsquo;s going to change me, that&rsquo;s going to
change my experience.&rdquo;

I&rsquo;ve pointed out that when you become still, when you silence
human will, when you shut up your aggressive thinking and move into the
silence with inquisitiveness, inquiry into that which you may have
thought you knew about but that you want to know more about or
differently about&mdash;if the truth about it is different from your
preconception&mdash;and when you move into that silence with
attentiveness, I&rsquo;ve said you move into that place where
God&rsquo;s laws prevail. Where God&rsquo;s laws prevail, things work
differently&mdash;different from what you&rsquo;re familiar with.

Now, I&rsquo;ve said this before: &ldquo;You are neither behind the
point of perfection nor advancing toward it. You are at this point and
must understand yourself therefrom.&rdquo; Okay. When you stop thinking
of yourself as being behind the point of perfection but may be moving
toward it, and you silence all of the thoughts and attitudes around that
perspective, you find yourself in a place where God&rsquo;s laws
prevail.

Now, usually when you finally decide to practice the two-step and you
shut up and you inquire of the Father or the Holy Spirit or your Guide,
&ldquo;What is the truth here?&rdquo; it&rsquo;s because you have a
problem. You seldom do it when you&rsquo;re having a good time and you
would like to have the Holy Spirit or the Father embellish it with even
more of what it truly is so that you could have the experience of the
&ldquo;frosting on the cake&rdquo; and not just have the cake.

So you do it when you have a problem. You do it because you need an
answer. And what I want you to begin to contemplate is that it&rsquo;s
no longer viable for you to ask for an answer because you&rsquo;re
behind the point of perfection and needing help. That&rsquo;s not the
way to get an answer. You will get an answer, but it&rsquo;s because you
are at the point of perfection.

You see, you think you ask for an answer because there&rsquo;s a problem
and that that&rsquo;s the way you&rsquo;ll get the answer&mdash;the
solution. But the fact is that you ask for an answer because there is no
problem. And the fact that, we could say ultimately speaking or divinely
speaking, there is no problem, you will get clarification as to the
truth of that fact.

You ask for an answer because there is no problem. Because the truth is,
that there is no problem.

Why is there no problem? Because problems only seem to exist when you
have adopted an attitude of being behind the point of perfection,
struggling to advance toward it. You see?

This is important. You cannot arrive at an answer to a problem with the
basic assumption that the problem is real and that the problem exists to
be dealt with. That is never the way healing or correction of
misperception has occurred. That is never the way it has occurred. When
correction has occurred it&rsquo;s because you slipped up&mdash;you
momentarily stopped maintaining the sense of being an orphan, the sense
of being behind the point of perfection and advancing toward
it&mdash;and in an innocent unbiased, momentary frame of mind which was
the equivalent of being where God&rsquo;s laws prevail, the answer came
&hellip; the healing occurred &hellip; the transformation or correction
took place. It took place not because something managed to overcome a
negative energy, a negative power or negative event. It happened because
when one is not practicing insanity, sanity floods your mind. The truth
floods your mind and you&rsquo;re no longer deluded and you&rsquo;re no
longer seeing delusions.

Now, as I&rsquo;ve said, Paul and Susan aren&rsquo;t really used to this
kind of experience. It&rsquo;s true that for twenty some years they have
lived on gifts&mdash;spontaneous contributions that people have
made&mdash;but nothing of the magnitude of the gifts that have been
coming in.

Now, how does this relate to you [looks around the room] &hellip; and
you &hellip; and you &hellip; and you &hellip; and you &hellip; and you
&hellip; and you?

The way it relates is, that if you&rsquo;re going to dare to consider
that you&rsquo;re not behind the point of perfection, that you&rsquo;re
at the point of perfection and have to understand yourself therefrom,
and you&rsquo;re going to practice the holy instant, then you&rsquo;re
going to have the experience of God&rsquo;s laws prevailing.

And what do those wonderful words&mdash;those spiritual words mean?

Well, in practical terms it is inevitable that you&rsquo;re going to
find yourself gifted with something you didn&rsquo;t ask for, some good
that you didn&rsquo;t ask for, something that you didn&rsquo;t have in
mind. And you&rsquo;re very likely to find that in spite of what you had
in mind this gift is for you and [chuckles] it&rsquo;s going to be yours
whether you&rsquo;re happy about it or not&mdash;whether you wanted it
yet or not. God&rsquo;s laws will prevail. God&rsquo;s Love will
prevail.

It has been said that love inspires, illumines, designates and leads the
way.

Well, love obviously isn&rsquo;t passive and wimpy. It inspires.
Isn&rsquo;t that wonderful? And it illumines. And that&rsquo;s
wonderful&hellip; uh-oh, now something&rsquo;s going to happen to your
free will. It&rsquo;s going to designate the way.

Oh-h &hellip; if somebody had told you that the two-step was going to
put you in a position of losing your authority because God&rsquo;s Love
would inspire you and illumine the way and then designate it, so that
you didn&rsquo;t have a choice, you wouldn&rsquo;t have been so gung-ho
to opt for the first step&mdash;inspiration. Everyone loves inspiration,
but &ldquo;God, don&rsquo;t let it mean anything. Don&rsquo;t let it
change me. Don&rsquo;t make me have to stretch and be different &hellip;
but Oh God, inspire me &hellip; it is so delicious to feel inspired
&hellip; I could almost fly &hellip;&rdquo;

I know, but you can&rsquo;t. You could almost fly but you can&rsquo;t. I
want you to fly. I want you to be able to and not just almost have the
feeling of being lifted up. But in order for you to fly, something in
you is going to have to change.

So you&rsquo;re going to have to let the next step
occur&mdash;illumination. The way to do it is going to have to be
illumined. Well, that&rsquo;s not half bad either. I mean, to have the
way illuminated doesn&rsquo;t mean you have to go that way, does it? So
it&rsquo;s safe to let the way be illuminated.

But then there&rsquo;s that damned next step: Designation&mdash;the
Father&rsquo;s Love, the Father&rsquo;s Wisdom. The sane perspective of
your right Mind is going to designate something. It&rsquo;s going to
say, &ldquo;this way…not that way…not that way, no, not that way…this
way…this way…and only this way!&rdquo;

And then to add insult to injury, the next step is that not only have
you been shown the way to go, but Something or Someone is going to take
your hand and lead the way. You are going to have no means of feeling
that you&rsquo;re in charge of anything at all. It will be your function
to let yourself be led. Wow!

So, have ya been enjoying A Course In Miracles?

Because this is a course in miracles! It&rsquo;s not just a bunch of
beautiful, wonderful words that inspire you and illuminate things to
you. It also designates the way. It tells you where to go for your
inspiration, for your illumination and for direction, which it will be
up to you to follow if what the Course is teaching is going to make any
difference in your life and if you&rsquo;re going to Wake up!

For at least four months since I have guided Susan and Paul to do this
apparently irrelevant thing called, &ldquo;house-hunting,&rdquo; because
for some irrelevant reason they need to move (irrelevant as far as they
can see), they have not had the most comfortable time.

Yeah, they listened. There was a problem. Things were transforming on
the street where they live. It caused them to become still and ask,
&ldquo;What&rsquo;s the truth here?&rdquo; And the truth was not
something that might have satisfied them. It probably would have
satisfied them to say, &ldquo;Wait a darn minute here, we purchased this
house because this house served a certain purpose&mdash;a good purpose,
an excellent purpose, a divine purpose&mdash;and it has been doing that
and it ought to be able to continue doing that. And so I expect my
Guidance to say, &lsquo;Go down to the City Planning Commission and
register your complaint, and perhaps if you listen to Guidance, Raj will
tell you what words to say that will cause them to change their
plans.&rsquo; &rdquo;

You know, &ldquo;stand up for your rights!&rdquo; That&rsquo;s a typical
ego stance, isn&rsquo;t it. And hey, stand up for your rights with
Jesus, or the Holy Spirit or the Father, whatever divine Presence will
stand with you that you can give voice to.

But, no. The word was, &ldquo;It&rsquo;s time for the Foundation to
move.&rdquo; &ldquo;Um-m &hellip; but we&rsquo;re so comfortable here.
Yeah, there are limitations, there are problems but we&rsquo;ve learned
to live with them and we&rsquo;ve become quite comfortable with
them.&rdquo; It&rsquo;s sort of like having a pair of shoes that&rsquo;s
not new anymore. But, you know, they have a year or two more wear out of
them that you can get. And when you&rsquo;re told it&rsquo;s time to get
a new pair of shoes, you say, &ldquo;Naw, that doesn&rsquo;t feel like
good guidance to me. My wisdom and my conservative good judgment says
&lsquo;work with what you have until it won&rsquo;t work with you
anymore.&rsquo; &rdquo;

So they had these kind of thoughts and they brought them up to me. And
every day they would get up and say, &ldquo;Are you really saying we
need to move? Are you really saying that nothing is workable here
anymore?&rdquo; And I would confirm to them, &ldquo;Yes.&rdquo; Not only
that, every time I said yes, I said, &ldquo;And the answer won&rsquo;t
change!&rdquo;

So much for talking with Jesus. I mean, I actually wouldn&rsquo;t want
them to be blindly obedient, anyway. And none of you should be blindly
obedient to your Guidance. But they continued to doubt and they
continued to express their doubt. Oh-h, so they did the two-step. They
moved into the place where God&rsquo;s laws prevailed and they were
inclined to say, &ldquo;Um-m &hellip; this doesn&rsquo;t sound like
God&rsquo;s laws prevailing. I must&rsquo;ve made a mistake. I must not
be listening well. Today I&rsquo;m going to sit down and meditate two
hours before I ask instead of one hour. I&rsquo;m going to do the
listening better.&rdquo; Silly.

So they asked and they got an answer that they didn&rsquo;t expect. And
then they would say, &ldquo;Raj, tell us why. If you would tell us why
it&rsquo;s appropriate for us to move, then we would understand and we
could easily get behind the program and flow with it with enthusiasm and
give our full energy and willingness to it.&rdquo;

Well, I won&rsquo;t answer that question for them because the answer to
that question isn&rsquo;t important. The answer to that question would
be an element or a factor, which would allow them to bring their will
into play and say, &ldquo;Ah-h, I can get behind that! I&rsquo;m going
to do it! I&rsquo;m going to do it for my reasons!&rdquo; You see?

Love inspires, illumines, designates and leads the way and doesn&rsquo;t
necessarily give you an explanation.

Why? Because if you have an explanation, you can&rsquo;t participate in
the activity of &ldquo;follow the leader.&rdquo; You can walk side by
side with the leader. The leader&rsquo;s going somewhere and
you&rsquo;re going somewhere with him. You see? But that&rsquo;s not
follow the leader, that&rsquo;s, I&rsquo;m going to say, that&rsquo;s
companionship and I&rsquo;m using the word loosely because I normally
use the word, &ldquo;companionship&rdquo; as an evidence of unity. But
here you&rsquo;re deciding to walk with your Guide because you
understand where you&rsquo;re going and you&rsquo;ve brought your
willingness&mdash;your willingness which is truly willfulness&mdash;into
play. And so you are two independent entities, so to speak, walking
along. That&rsquo;s not companionship, that&rsquo;s not communion,
that&rsquo;s not unity. You see?

You are the Sons and Daughters of God. You are not independent entities.
You are therefore, the Presence of That which reflects its Source.

Now, this may be a turning point for all of you who are studying the
Course. It may be a point where you give it up. Because truly, to
proceed further in the actual practice of what it&rsquo;s teaching,
requires you to become a follower &hellip; I mean truly, a humble
follower who has not one ounce of willfulness&mdash;no little ace up its
sleeve holding out energy to use in order to determine something, or in
order to authorize something. You see?

But understand this: When you let there be a total absence of
willfulness in you and you are bringing your full willingness to
listening to the Father so that you might feel and do His Will, His laws
begin to prevail for you. They&rsquo;ve been prevailing all along, but
they&rsquo;re going to begin to prevail for you and miracles will happen
that you didn&rsquo;t cause but which you allowed, miracles that you
didn&rsquo;t ask for but which will constitute fulfillment for
you&mdash;Unless you insist on the idea that fulfillment for you means
you having your way.

God&rsquo;s laws prevail. Well, dammit! You would love wouldn&rsquo;t
you, to have that cancer disappear or you would love for that bone that
got broken that grew back deformed that has caused you to limp or to
carry yourself off-center, you would love for that to be [snaps fingers]
gone and have perfection evidenced there, wouldn&rsquo;t you? You really
would like God&rsquo;s laws to prevail.

When you&rsquo;re tired, it&rsquo;s much easier to say to God,
&ldquo;Thy Will be done.&rdquo; When you&rsquo;re fresh and full of vim
and vigor, man &hellip; give you a project and let you, yourself, all by
yourself, tackle it and accomplish it and have the satisfaction of
having accomplished it well. Or, after having done it poorly,
experiencing the distress and the guilt for not having done it well and
having affected others adversely but still have an experience, even
though it&rsquo;s of guilt and suffering. It&rsquo;s an experience that
certainly demonstrates your independence, doesn&rsquo;t it? You
didn&rsquo;t defile your love of being on your own and having the
freedom to act on your own for good or for ill and hopefully learn how
to do it more for good, and more for benefit until you can look at
yourself and others can look at you with pride and respect.

That has to be abandoned. And the abandoning of it is the function of
the two-step. It is the purpose of the holy instant.

I know people have asked the same question Paul and Sue have asked at
times during the last four months, &ldquo;Why do they need a big house,
they don&rsquo;t even hold Gatherings anymore? Why do they need to have
a room large enough to hold sixty people? Why do they need all the
square footage when they don&rsquo;t even have to put out a newsletter
anymore and there&rsquo;s no copiers and there&rsquo;s no folding tables
and there&rsquo;s no need for any of that anymore?&rdquo;

Well, those are questions asked by those who have forgotten to play,
&ldquo;follow the leader.&rdquo; Those are the ones who question so that
they might have understanding&mdash;so that they might bring their will
into play&mdash;to say, &ldquo;I support that because I see it, I see
the meaning and therefore, I have decided to bring my agreement to the
situation and I am willing to put my shoulder to the grindstone and get
it done.&rdquo; You see?  Now, those who ask those questions about this
issue are going to ask those questions about their own issues.

&ldquo;I know, I know&hellip; my closet is full of clothes that are ten
years old. But you know what? I take good care of my clothes and they
look as good today as they did when I first got them. I know they
aren&rsquo;t in style any more but you know what? I&rsquo;m not going to
let the fashion leaders determine what I wear. That&rsquo;s just a human
opinion. Next year, you know, the wide lapels might come back and then
everybody will say I&rsquo;m in style&mdash;I&rsquo;m wearing the right
kind of clothes.&rdquo; You see? It&rsquo;s all bullshit.

If you&rsquo;re told that it&rsquo;s time to get new clothes,
don&rsquo;t justify less, don&rsquo;t justify the status-quo. Let the
Father&mdash;Whose guidance through the Holy Spirit is one of
Love&mdash;inspire in you a new perspective and illumine the way to get
it or fulfill it and designate&hellip; you know, go into this store and
go over to the rack in the back and look for a shirt, there&rsquo;s a
shirt there for you. You&rsquo;re gonna love it. It&rsquo;s there for
you. It&rsquo;s the Father&rsquo;s Gift. You see? Fulfillment is in
order, although it might look like that shirt is on that rack out of
pure happenstance or out of very conscientious order applied by the
manager of the store and the manufactures of the shirts and the delivery
people who happened to bring that shirt to this store on that day.

None of it&rsquo;s happening for any of those reasons. Why? Because the
only place in which anything is happening is where God&rsquo;s laws
prevail. Anywhere else nothing is happening&mdash;anywhere else you can
imagine that things are happening that aren&rsquo;t happening, like:
it&rsquo;s just happenstance that that shirt is there. But that
doesn&rsquo;t mean that&rsquo;s why the shirt was there. The
shirt&rsquo;s there because there&rsquo;s a God. Anything is where it is
because there&rsquo;s a God. And you&rsquo;re learning to do the
two-step, you&rsquo;re learning to practice the holy instant so that you
can what? Come into that place where God&rsquo;s laws prevail and you
have the experience of not being in charge, but standing with the Gifts
of God in you&mdash;God&rsquo;s Perspective &hellip; the grasp of the
Father&rsquo;s Will, which you will have when you no longer have an
&lsquo;Ace up your sleeve,&rsquo; where you want to learn what the
Father&rsquo;s Will is so you can practice it by yourself. And when you
no longer want to take it away from the Father and have it for your own
purposes, you will find yourself understanding.

Let&rsquo;s be very clear: If you&rsquo;re going to practice the
two-step, if you&rsquo;re going to practice the holy instant,
you&rsquo;re going to be faced with good that you didn&rsquo;t ask for.
You&rsquo;re going to experience beneficence that you didn&rsquo;t
request. And it&rsquo;s going to turn your head, it&rsquo;s going to
cause your attention to move in directions that it wasn&rsquo;t your
habit to give your attention in &hellip; thank God.

Here&rsquo;s where you find out what the meaning of the words,
&ldquo;stubborn will&rdquo; is. You won&rsquo;t like it because
it&rsquo;s going to be about your stubborn will. But until you see where
you are being stubbornly willful and holding onto less than what the
Father would have you have, you are not going to be in a position to
change your mind and let the inspiration illumine your mind, designate
the way, and turn you into a follower where you&rsquo;re willing to be
led into the full unobstructed experience of your good.

And you know what? Like Paul and Susan, when you engage in
this&mdash;which I want you to do this week, I don&rsquo;t want you to
hold off any longer&mdash;I want you to engage in the practice of the
two-step of the holy instant with this added perspective that I&rsquo;ve
been talking about. I want you to do it starting tonight.

When you do it, you&rsquo;re going to seem to have unreasonable,
unjustifiable good come into your experience, which will for you,
identify functionality and fulfillment and truly nothing irrelevant to
what meets your need. And to others around you it may seem outrageous,
just as to many of you, what is happening here with Paul, Susan and the
Foundation can seem outrageous.

And here&rsquo;s a place where you might say, &ldquo;Oh-h, oh,
I&rsquo;ve got to let go of Your hand, Whoever you are That&rsquo;s
guiding me&mdash;Father, Holy Spirit, Jesus. You see, my holding Your
hand is making me look too weird to everybody else. So I&rsquo;m going
to take back a little control. Everybody recognizes me when I&rsquo;m
practicing control because they can see themselves in me. You see? But
it&rsquo;s hard for them to see themselves in me when I&rsquo;m yielding
to the Holy Spirit or the Father or the Christ, because I&rsquo;m not
&lsquo;behaving normally&rsquo; and unexplainable things are happening
that make them uneasy, even jealous.&rdquo;

Well, you know what? Don&rsquo;t let go of That hand that&rsquo;s
leading you, even though all of this is happening. Everyone needs
examples to follow. And you know, if you&rsquo;re going to crawl out of
the crab barrel, crawl out of the crab barrel and Be &hellip; without
behaving in the context of the crab barrel anymore.  So that those
inside can peek over the top and say, &ldquo;Wow! wow! nobody&rsquo;s
crawling on top of him. Wow! nobody&rsquo;s pinching him, because he
can&rsquo;t see what he&rsquo;s pinching. Wow! he&rsquo;s in the clear
&hellip; there&rsquo;s space. Can you imagine? Come look! He&rsquo;s got
space!&rdquo;

You see? [chuckle] I know why do you need space? Why do you need more
space? Why do you need an elevator? And Paul and Susan have joked about
this home, this building being their two hundred and seventy-two
thousand dollar stair-master. You know, that&rsquo;s the way they
accommodate the idea of climbing stairs when they carry groceries up.

&ldquo;Well,&rdquo; you say, &ldquo;is having to carry groceries up
two-flights of stairs written in concrete somewhere? Is it the law of
God?&rdquo;

Does having an elevator have to be reasonable, explainable, justifiable,
cost-effective? Can&rsquo;t it just meet the need? Can&rsquo;t it be a
simple expression of care and love?

You know what it boils down to? If everyone was a millionaire,
they&rsquo;d say, &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t care if you have an elevator,
have three elevators, and have a moving walkway to get you from one side
of the house to the other.&rdquo; I mean, if you had lots of money you
would have no objection and you&rsquo;d put in the walkways and
elevators too. And you wouldn&rsquo;t feel a bit guilty. You see?

Small-mindedness, mean-spiritedness, lack that constitutes some sort of
developer of worth in everyone is valued. Everyone wants worth:
&ldquo;Suffer a little bit and that will demonstrate your worth. Hold on
to lack and do well in spite of the lack and that will prove your
worth.&rdquo; You see?

Well, that&rsquo;s like saying, &ldquo;Hey, you know, it&rsquo;s great,
this is our two hundred and seventy-two thousand dollar
stair-master.&rdquo; It&rsquo;s like, &ldquo;Hey, why should I
experience comfort and ease when that doesn&rsquo;t prove my worth, when
that doesn&rsquo;t cause me to behave in a way that is recognizably
worthy of another&rsquo;s respect?&rdquo; You see? But what that means
is, &ldquo;Why be in a way that doesn&rsquo;t require me to be or do
things in a laborious way that everyone else will recognize as the
activity and behavior of a respectable individual? Why should I consider
being happy with ease, comfort, the absence of fear&mdash;in other
words, peace? You know, why should I experience perfect health? Why
should I experience immutability when it won&rsquo;t get me
anything?&rdquo;

&ldquo;If I let myself be my Father&rsquo;s Son or my Father&rsquo;s
Daughter, I&rsquo;ll be nothing more than a kept man or a kept woman,
undeserving of any respect what so ever.&rdquo; But this insane line of
thinking simply keeps everyone from consciously experiencing being in
that place where God&rsquo;s laws prevail.

You know, it says, &ldquo;Be ye therefore perfect &hellip;&rdquo;
Perfect &hellip; not behind the point of perfection and moving toward
it, but, be ye perfect. Be ye at the point of perfection and understand
yourself from there. &ldquo;Be ye therefore perfect &hellip; what?
even as your Father, Who is in Heaven, is perfect!&rdquo;[^1] You see?

For God&rsquo;s sake, let your perfection be borrowed from your Father
Who is the one Who is giving it to you. And stop being at odds with what
you divinely Are! Why? So that if good comes to you that is an
expression of the Father&rsquo;s Will, that it never occurred to you to
ask for, and that you never felt like you needed, let it come and
receive it just because the Father is giving it to you.

And your place in the scheme of things is to be in receivership. As the
Father&rsquo;s Son or Daughter, it is your function to be the bearer of
your Birthright. It&rsquo;s so simple. You see? And the only thing that
hangs everybody up is this crazy idea that somehow you yourself are
supposed to have authority that you learn to exercise well,
independently, in order to prove your worth. And what you get is
struggle, sin, disease, death, fear &hellip; not actually, because you
haven&rsquo;t stopped being what you divinely Are. But as long as
you&rsquo;re pretending that you&rsquo;re not That, you will have what
comes along with the pretension of being an independent agent, an
orphan. Okay.

We&rsquo;ve been talking tonight basically about how you cope with
beneficence and fulfillment, the experience of completion that you
didn&rsquo;t ask for&mdash;fulfillment, completion, etc., that you will
get because of what you divinely Are, fulfillment and completion that
you will get because you never lost it. And all that it requires is a
simple mental adjustment where you abandon the concept of being behind
the point of perfection and advancing toward it&mdash;you abandon that
in favor of&mdash;that you&rsquo;re at that point and must be and think
and understand and be conscious from that place.

Now, just before we began I had Paul turn to this page. And so he
doesn&rsquo;t have the page numbers here for everyone. But it&rsquo;s in
Chapter 31 no matter which version you&rsquo;re reading from. Chapter
31, the two paragraphs just before the Section entitled The
Savior&rsquo;s Vision. It sort of wraps things up in a nut-shell here.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You who believe that you can choose to see the Son of God as you would
have him be&hellip;[^2]
</div>

&hellip; in other words, you who think you can have a concept of your
Brother or Sister, a definition of him &hellip; that it is your
determination as a true perception of him &hellip; like, well,
&ldquo;He&rsquo;s a selfish person. But he is that way because of his
upbringing. I understand why he&rsquo;s that way. But he is a selfish
person.&rdquo;

Well&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You who believe that you can choose to see the Son of God as you would
have him be, forget not that no concept of yourself will stand against
the truth of what you are.
</div>

A little funny twist to that. If no concept you have about yourself,
like, &ldquo;I&rsquo;m a pretty nice guy, you know. I have a few faults,
but I&rsquo;m a pretty nice guy.&rdquo; No concept of yourself like that
will stand against the truth of what you Are. If no concept you have of
yourself will stand against the truth that you Are, no concept you have
of your Brother will stand against what your Brother Is. So your
assessment isn&rsquo;t the almighty, end-all truth about your Brother.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Undoing truth would be impossible. But concepts &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; no matter how devoted you are to them.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
But concepts are not difficult to change. ONE vision, clearly seen, that
does not fit the picture as it was perceived before will change the
world for eyes that learn to see, because the concept of the SELF has
changed.
</div>

For example:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Are YOU invulnerable? Then the world is harmless in your sight. Do YOU
forgive? Then is the world forgiving, for you have forgiven it its
trespasses&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in other words, the trespasses you conceived that it had in
which you laid upon it and which you held it to.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Do YOU forgive? Then is the world forgiving, for you have forgiven it
its trespasses, and so it looks on you with eyes that see as yours. Are
YOU a body? So is all the world perceived as treacherous, and out to
kill.
</div>

You see? How are you looking? Are you looking from behind the point of
perfection, advancing toward it, perhaps having to step on your
Brother&rsquo;s shoulders to climb up to get an advantage to get further
ahead as you&rsquo;re advancing toward your perfection and getting there
more quickly?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Are you a Spirit&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and I would say now: &ldquo;Are you Spirit? . .&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; deathless, and without the promise of corruption and the stain
of sin upon you?
</div>

In other words, are you seeing yourself at the point of perfection and
understanding yourself therefrom?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Are you a Spirit, deathless, and without the promise of corruption and
the stain of sin upon you? So the world is seen as stable, fully worthy
of your trust; a happy place to rest in for a while, where nothing need
be feared, but only loved. Who is unwelcome to the kind in heart? And
what could hurt the truly innocent?
</div>

You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your will be done, you holy Child of God.
</div>

Not, your will be done, you little orphan bastard you!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your will be done, you holy Child of God.
</div>

Because from the point of perfection and you understanding yourself from
there, you know you are the holy Son of God, which means you are the
Place where God is being all there Is. And you&rsquo;re happy to let God
be all there Is, because when you do, who you Are is utterly and
completely and irrevocably clear to you. And God&rsquo;s laws prevail
and perfection is yours.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your will be done, you holy Child of God. It does not matter if you
think you are in earth or Heaven. What your Father wills for you can
never change.
</div>

You see? Whether you think you&rsquo;re behind the point of perfection
or advancing toward it does not matter. It does not matter if you think
you are behind the point of perfection or advancing toward it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What your Father wills for you can never change.
</div>

So, the simple answer then is to abandon this crazy idea that
you&rsquo;re behind this point of perfection and advancing toward it and
simply shift into the acknowledgement that you are at that point. And
then &hellip; what? Ask the Holy Spirit. Do the two-step. Practice the
holy instant. Ask that which is nothing more than your right Mind,
&ldquo;How do things look to me as that one who is at the point of
perfection and understands himself from there? Reveal it to me.&rdquo;
And then shut up and listen and don&rsquo;t hold out the right to take
the information and then run with it and use it independently on your
own&mdash;yield into your Birthright.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The truth in you remains as radiant as a star&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; [Chuckles] &hellip; &ldquo;Well, why in the world does he think
he needs to be as radiant as a star? Why should I think I should be as
radiant as a star? I&rsquo;m very happy with my subtle glow. It
doesn&rsquo;t disturb anybody and it&rsquo;s very soft and soothing. And
lots of people love to be around me because my presence is so pacifying
and reassuring to them, you know. Stop! Quit trying to push off radiance
to me.&rdquo; You see? &ldquo;Well, explain to me why I should let
myself be radiant?&rdquo; Well, you know what? There&rsquo;s no good
reason, except that it&rsquo;s just the way you Are. I can&rsquo;t
explain it. There&rsquo;s no justification for it. You&rsquo;re a bright
light in the cosmos already and you can&rsquo;t do anything about it. So
stop fighting it! That&rsquo;s all! Don&rsquo;t ask for an explanation.
Just stop resisting being the light!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The truth in you remains as radiant as a star, as pure as light&hellip;
</div>

&ldquo;Aw&hellip; you know what? Purity is over-rated! I&rsquo;m not
pure. I&rsquo;m a little purer than George down the street. But you know
what? We even get along in spite of our variances of purity, you know. I
mean, don&rsquo;t make such a big deal out of purity. Okay?.
Everything&rsquo;s all right without it being purely pure, you know!
Even Ivory soap is ninety-nine and ninety-nine one hundreds percent
pure. It doesn&rsquo;t try to be a hundred percent pure. It
doesn&rsquo;t have to be and neither do I. And God stop trying to make
me be pure.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The truth in you remains as radiant as a star, as pure as light, as
innocent as Love Itself. And you ARE worthy that your Will be done!
</div>

Wow! Everyone is worthy of the Father&rsquo;s Will being done in and
through Paul and Sue, in and through each of you and everyone
who&rsquo;s hearing my voice. Let in &hellip; let in &hellip; let in.
Lower your defenses. Let good that you don&rsquo;t even yet recognize as
being good, let it in.

Do the flowers in the morning say, &ldquo;Ah, what do I need the Sun
for?&rdquo; No. They let it in. They bask in it. They yield to what it
is. Do they say, &ldquo;Uh, what do I need the rain for?&rdquo; No, they
let it in. You see?

Don&rsquo;t make God explain Himself before you will believe in God.
Don&rsquo;t make God explain Himself before you yield to Him.

Now, I don&rsquo;t know if everyone could hear the car just drive by,
but there are those who could say, &ldquo;Well, that&rsquo;s the reason
&hellip; that&rsquo;s the reason they need to move, the noise is
disturbing to the recording, it&rsquo;s disturbing to the meetings, the
gatherings, the communion.&rdquo;

Is it? Is that the reason? Maybe it isn&rsquo;t a solution to anything.
Maybe they&rsquo;re moving because it&rsquo;s what the Movement of
Fulfillment is looking like. Maybe they are moving because they are
learning along with all of you what practicing the two-step or the holy
instant really means and are having the opportunity to experience the
blessing, not of moving, but of abandoning human will, abandoning their
willfulness, abandoning their strong desire to be in charge, in control,
and to be able to prove themselves to others, and meet the criteria of
others.

But you see, it may be, and you can bet your bottom dollar, the reason
is because they and everyone else need to learn to say, &ldquo;Thy Will,
be done,&rdquo; and then shut up so that the Will of the Father can
inspire, illumine, designate and lead the way.

I love you all&mdash;even you, Chris. And I look forward to being with
everyone next week.

[^1]: Mathew:5:48
[^2]: T31.4 Self Concept versus Self

