---
title: Jul 17, 2010
ref: "Discussion"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

You know, it used to be that on Saturday morning, the day of a
meeting&mdash;a study group&mdash;Paul would get up and he would, for
lack of better words, keep the day holy. He would wake up with the
intent to keep his mind stayed on the truth, to not let his mind be
distracted by, we&rsquo;ll say, the normal calls of daily activity. In a
way, he would go into a cave and be contemplative and quiet in honor,
you might say, of the truth that would come forth during the meeting.

And then over the last year or so, Saturdays have become busier. Things
needed to be done, things which to him were not relevant to keeping the
day holy&mdash;relevant to what might be transpiring in the evening in
the study group. And he had a somewhat difficult time adjusting to
that&mdash;he objected in his mind&mdash;he was not happy with the
situation.

And yet, as the months went by, Saturdays became busier and busier not
to mention the other days of the week. More and more
&ldquo;distractions&rdquo; occurred. Until Saturdays became so full that
he barely got back home in time for the meeting and barely had time to
become quiet. Having to, we&rsquo;ll say, be with me on the run&mdash;be
with me in the middle of being active. And this was an education for
him. It was a learning for him, not a learning he liked.

He wanted everyone else to respect the holiness of the day and the call
for a holy frame of mind on that day just as he wished to provide that
attitude for that day. And everything was conspiring against his intent.

But you see, the call for him and indeed the call for all of you is to
find the holiness of the day in the activity of the day&mdash;in the
activities of each day.

You know, we&rsquo;ve talked about the fact that when you do the
two-step, you go into that place where God&rsquo;s laws prevail.

Well, what everyone is needing to learn is, that the place where
God&rsquo;s laws prevail is in the minutiae of daily activities. You
know, God&rsquo;s law prevailing is going to look like something.
God&rsquo;s laws prevailing are going to be manifest. Where? Well,
I&rsquo;ve said it over and over again: The only thing that&rsquo;s ever
confronting you is the Kingdom of Heaven. You call it, &ldquo;the world
and universe.&rdquo; But that&rsquo;s a misperception&mdash;a
misunderstanding. It is the Kingdom of Heaven.

Where are God&rsquo;s laws going to prevail? Obviously in the Kingdom of
Heaven. And where is the Kingdom of Heaven? Right here! It&rsquo;s the
only thing in your face.

Now, Paul and Susan&mdash;but I&rsquo;m addressing all of this relative
to Paul at the moment&mdash;Paul has been very busy, very occupied for
the past number of months with finding a new place for the Foundation to
move, for the activity to move, for Paul and Susan to be and do what
they do.

&ldquo;Oh-h, another distraction!&rdquo;

But you see &hellip; where is the fulfillment of God&rsquo;s Purpose
going to show up? Where is God&rsquo;s Will going to prevail? It&rsquo;s
going to prevail in houses, on streets, in communities. It&rsquo;s going
to prevail in the driving from here to there, to look at this, to look
at that. You see?

And another very interesting and practical thing to learn and discover
is, that when you listen for the Voice for truth, when you listen to the
Holy Spirit, when you listen to That which is nothing more than your
right Mind, the Guidance, the divine Guidance you are going to get is
going to have to do with streets &hellip; and going here &hellip; and
looking at that &hellip; and being in the place at the time where
fulfillment of Purpose is manifest in, in other words, the minutiae of
daily activities.

So, you know, we have been reading from this book, A Course In Miracles,
for a number of years and we have been talking about wonderful spiritual
ideas. Right now I&rsquo;m taking the opportunity to bring home the fact
that these wonderful spiritual ideas are absolutely relevant to &hellip;
what? The Kingdom of Heaven that you&rsquo;re in the middle of&mdash;the
minutiae of daily activities that seem not to be spiritually oriented at
all.

But that&rsquo;s just your belief. That&rsquo;s just what you&rsquo;ve
been taught. And you see what you expect to see based on what
you&rsquo;ve been taught, you know.

So you go and look at a house, or you look the house you live in, or you
look at the building you work in and you say, &ldquo;Well, it&rsquo;s
just a (if it&rsquo;s a building you work in) structure of steel and
concrete and glass&mdash;a physical object.&rdquo; And you&rsquo;re
quite sure of it.

But maybe &hellip; maybe it is a fluid movement of fulfillment of
Purpose of a pristine idea in the Mind of God that is forever being made
new by the Movement of the Mind of God that is envisioning it always in
the moment of conscious awareness. Maybe it&rsquo;s that. Maybe
it&rsquo;s purely the evidence &hellip; the current evidence of a
current living God. And it isn&rsquo;t just maybe, that is the fact!

But that&rsquo;s not what you see because you don&rsquo;t believe
that&rsquo;s what it is. And you see what you believe.

And so, because you believe that the world and universe is a material
world and universe, not the Kingdom of Heaven, then you think that the
laws of God prevail not here, but somewhere else where the Kingdom of
Heaven is. And ultimately, if you are going to become a holy man or a
holy woman, or you are going to devote yourself to holiness, you
certainly will not expect your connection with God to have relevance to
this material world and universe. And yet, if you&rsquo;re going to Wake
up, you&rsquo;re going to have to discover and realize that there is no
other reality going on but the one in which God&rsquo;s laws prevail
because God is All. There is no alternative to the Allness of God.

So, in your approach to your holiness as the holy Son or Daughter of
God, you are going to have to begin to expect to see the evidence of
holiness right where you are in the minutiae of daily activities.

Again, you think you know what things are: Material world and universe.
Well, let me say this: Susan and Paul, Chris and Judy, anyone associated
with the work that they are doing and the activities of the Northwest
Foundation For A Course In Miracles, are engaged in finding a new
location. A new location has been found. Steps have been taken to secure
it. An offer has been made and the offer was accepted. And we&rsquo;re
at a point where a week from today, the total amount needed for its
purchase must be in hand.

Now, it appears as though all of this is dependent on things. It&rsquo;s
dependent upon Paul and Susan being willing to give their attention and
energy and willingness and decisiveness to what the Movement of God is
leading them to do &hellip; to the Guidance they are getting from me
regarding the minutiae of daily affairs.

It appears that another aspect of this Movement&mdash;this
unfoldment&mdash;is individuals making contributions, supporting the
activity in tangible ways.  So it could look as though it&rsquo;s just
human beings in this material world and universe like little ants
scurrying around doing their habitual processes of living and surviving
and so on and so forth &hellip; it&rsquo;s just part of the material
universe. Or, it can be the Movement of God&mdash;the laws of
God&mdash;prevailing in the minutiae of daily activities which are
really activities of the Kingdom of Heaven.

You know, it could look as though it&rsquo;s dependent on individuals
making contributions and everyone can forget that there&rsquo;s a God
and that maybe God has something to do with it all.

And I want to share this story which most of you know. It&rsquo;s a
story about a flood and in the flood the waters rise and this man crawls
up onto the roof of his house. And he prays to God to save him. He wants
to have a miracle. He wants to have the evidence of God.

And so while he&rsquo;s sitting on the roof, a rowboat comes by. And
they say, &ldquo;Jump-in! Jump-in! We&rsquo;ll take you to
safety!&rdquo; He says, &ldquo;No, I&rsquo;m waiting for God to save
me.&rdquo; And time passes and another form of help appears. And again
he says, &ldquo;No! No! I&rsquo;m waiting for God to save me.&rdquo; And
then just as the waters get to the peak of the house of the roof, a
helicopter comes by and lowers a ladder&mdash;a rope ladder&mdash;to him
to haul him to safety. And he says, &ldquo;No! I&rsquo;m waiting for God
&hellip; God will save me!&rdquo; The helicopter flies on and the waters
rise. He&rsquo;s swept off the roof and he drowns and he goes to Heaven.
And when he gets there, he says, &ldquo;God, why didn&rsquo;t you save
me?&rdquo;  And God says, &ldquo;What do you mean, why didn&rsquo;t I
save you? I sent the rowboat and I sent another form of help and I sent
a helicopter!&rdquo; you see?

Now there&rsquo;s, you might say, the laws of God prevailing in the
minutiae of daily activities.

Now, I want you to think for a moment about the fellows in the rowboat
or the fellow in the helicopter&mdash;the pilot. The helicopter pilot
gets a call on the radio that says, &ldquo;Down there at the fork of the
river there&rsquo;s a man on the roof, go down and get him!&rdquo; And
the pilot in the helicopter says, &ldquo;Hell, I&rsquo;m not going to go
down there and get him, you know, he was stupid for not having left when
the announcement went out to go to higher ground and he was stupid
enough not to accept the help when the rowboat came. Ya know, I&rsquo;m
not going to go down there and help him!&rdquo; You see what I&rsquo;m
saying? [chuckle]

The laws of God prevailing didn&rsquo;t prevail only with the fellow in
distress on the top of the roof who had asked for help, the laws of God
prevailing put a responsibility upon the fellow on the roof to recognize
the help and accept it, to see the laws of God prevailing in the
minutiae of daily activities&mdash;the simplicity of a rowboat with some
men in a rowboat and likewise with the helicopter.  But also, the fellow
in the helicopter had to be willing to cooperate with the laws of God
prevailing by being willing to be the place where God&rsquo;s laws
manifest. You see?

If the fellow on the roof had accepted the help of the pilot in the
helicopter, he would&rsquo;ve been saved. And one could&rsquo;ve said,
&ldquo;Well thank God for helicopters and thank God for a man who knows
how to fly the helicopters and so that this transpiring of events in the
human condition in a material world and universe could occur.&rdquo;

And one could say, &ldquo;God never had anything to do with it.&rdquo;

But God&rsquo;s laws prevailing looks like something. And it looks like
those who are helping and it looks like those who are receiving help.
And in other situations it looks like a need existing that has an
excellent purpose that requires support and others support it.

And so it looks like all the little human beings in the little anthill
are circling around and bringing a little bit of money here from that
place to this place and all this little, you know, material activity is
going on, all manifesting the fight for survival of life. You see?
&hellip; material world and universe. When that&rsquo;s not the only way
to look at it.

In fact, the necessity is to be able to recognize God Moving in and as
everything. You see?

Paul, Susan, Judy, Chris, everyone who in anyway participates in
bringing forth these activities that the Foundation is engaged in,
making them available to everyone, because someone is listening to
Guidance, is a manifestation of God&rsquo;s laws prevailing&mdash;where
God&rsquo;s laws prevail in the minutiae of daily activities. And
everyone who stands in receipt and gratitude for what is extended is
being part of God&rsquo;s laws prevailing, because the Gift of Love
recognized and received is the wholeness of the Movement of God in the
minutiae of daily activities.

And those who provide support for those activities when they are needed
are also not being little mortals, you know, bringing their crumbs of
money to the center of the nest. They are the Will of God prevailing and
manifesting the Fulfillment of God&rsquo;s purpose. Absolutely everyone
and everything is the Presence of the Movement of Fulfillment of God, of
God&rsquo;s Purpose. Everything fits together &hellip; everything fits
together. It&rsquo;s why I use the word, &ldquo;Family,&rdquo; because
the Movement of God into expression, which is the Self-expression of
God, manifests as the Sons and Daughters of God&mdash;every single one
of you, as well as every single thing in Creation. And it is a bonded,
infinite manifestation that is not in bondage to anything, but is
because it is the evidence of God&rsquo;s laws prevailing, the infinite
expression or manifestation of fulfillment of Purpose that does not
originate in a puny, pea-pickin&rsquo; little mind, called an ego of a
bunch of little bodies running around that has a brain in its head that
somehow is able to express life and intelligence.

Now the simple fact is, that if you&rsquo;re confronted by nothing other
than the Kingdom of Heaven, if nothing other than the Kingdom of Heaven
is available to you to experience&mdash;even though you can call it
anything you want and you can imagine it to be anything you want it to
be&mdash;then you&rsquo;re going to have to arrive at a point where the
minutiae of daily activities, the infinite activities of this Kingdom of
Heaven will have to stop being perceived by you as a distraction from
holiness, as a distraction from your giving your attention to listening
for the Father&rsquo;s Will and expecting to hear that It is something
&ldquo;other-worldly&rdquo; that doesn&rsquo;t relate to where you are.

Because if you don&rsquo;t discover and embrace the fact that the Will
of God prevailing, I&rsquo;m going to say, the laws of Love prevailing,
involves your embracing everything as the Kingdom of Heaven and
therefore, worthy of your love and worthy of your curiosity to see the
Father in every aspect of it, you will be living in a false sense of
spirituality that will absolutely inhibit you from Waking up. It will
absolutely inhibit you from having the experience of Revelation, because
you will be blocking it absolutely by your expectation that Revelation
is not going to relate to where you are.

Now, it is amazing what has transpired since the last couple of days of
May relative to the move of the Foundation and relative to the Love that
has been expressed and the contributions that have been received
&hellip; absolutely amazing &hellip; absolutely wonderful. And everyone
seems to be faced with, if you care about what&rsquo;s happening
regarding this move, everyone seems to be faced with a deadline&mdash;a
week from today&mdash;a deadline that calls for action.

Well, you know what? If you see yourself as a little piss-ant in the
anthill that must bring home the food, the goodies, the nourishment to
the center of the nest and get a contribution in, you&rsquo;ll be
missing the point. Because, you know, it wasn&rsquo;t a helicopter pilot
that would have saved the fellow, and it wasn&rsquo;t the men in a
rowboat that would have saved the fellow on the roof, it would have been
God and God&rsquo;s laws prevailing in the minutiae of daily activities
that would have saved him. You see?

So, let&rsquo;s drop the idea that you, as some piss-ant mortal, have
some sort of a responsibility to fulfill. And instead, do the two-step
&hellip; ask God, &ldquo;What is the truth here? What is going on? How
will Your laws prevailing look? What will they appear to be?&rdquo;
Because when you do the two-step and you shut up your thinking and you
abandon privacy and you say &ldquo;Father, what is the truth here? What
do I need to know?&rdquo; You move into the place where God&rsquo;s laws
not only prevail but God&rsquo;s laws manifest to you as the awareness
of what is appropriate for you. And if you insist on not reverting to
being a piss-ant mortal and instead insist on behaving like a holy Son
or Daughter of God, you will listen and you will act. And what you will
hear and what you will do, will be recognizably valuable in the midst of
the minutiae of daily activities.

Now I&rsquo;m not telling you what that&rsquo;s going to be. It could be
you being filled with an awareness of how God works and how God is
specifically working relative to this movement. For example, you might
find yourself realizing that God doesn&rsquo;t do things part
way&mdash;that God&rsquo;s Movement is a fulfillment of Purpose, not an
almost fulfillment of Purpose.

Someone Paul knows has on her voice mail message: &ldquo;You have almost
reached me.&rdquo; Well, fulfillment is not something that is almost
reached. The word &ldquo;fulfillment&rdquo; means completion, means
wholeness. And so you may be filled with the undeniable experience of
the fact that relative to this movement from one location to the other
and relative to the movement of the means to pay for it to arrive where
it&rsquo;s needed is not something that will be almost met, but one that
must be fully wholized, fully realized and something that, for example,
next Saturday everyone can fully rejoice in the completion of.

Someone else may indeed find themselves led to make a contribution. But
you know what? If you think you&rsquo;re a piss-ant mortal, you might,
like Paul does occasionally, and did this afternoon, begin to feel like,
&ldquo;Oh, you must do something. You must do something to take hold of
the situation. You must take some concrete action that will make a
difference,&rdquo; and do it without ever doing the two-step and without
ever going to the place where God&rsquo;s laws prevail, so that you
might experience the Meaning of the fact that God&rsquo;s laws prevail
and thus act in harmony with it.

You know, something that I am teaching everyone and have been for the
last few weeks is, that Guidance relates to the minutiae of daily
activities.

When I was working with Helen Schucman and dictating the Course to her,
I told her to go into a store and there was a coat there for her. And
indeed, she went in and the coat was there and she bought it. That event
has been minimized saying, &ldquo;Well, that was a special accommodation
to Helen, but doesn&rsquo;t really reflect the true nature of spiritual
Guidance or Atonement.

Well, I&rsquo;m telling you and I&rsquo;m demonstrating to you and
I&rsquo;ve been demonstrating most clearly to Paul and Susan that I am
able to talk about dollars and cents, I am able to talk about when and
if to secure a loan, when to make an offer, when not to make an offer. I
am able to give Guidance that is relevant to the minutiae of daily
activities. And I&rsquo;m doing it, and Paul feels like he&rsquo;s doing
it in front of everyone, but I&rsquo;m doing it in your presence so that
you might learn to listen for Guidance in a new way, so that you
aren&rsquo;t off on some &ldquo;cloud-nine-airy-fairy&rdquo; irrelevant
spiritual path. You see?

Now, I am going to be very clear as spiritual Guidance is, I was going
to say, is inclined to be, but as spiritual Guidance actually is, when
you reach out for the Holy Spirit or your Guide&mdash;and I&rsquo;m
going to point out that there is a need&mdash;the need is that the full
balance needs to be in hand by next Saturday, we&rsquo;ll say by next
Friday, so that the property does not go back on the open real estate
market.

That is the need. Why do I bring it up? Because you need to know where
to bring your attention to. You need to know what it is that you need to
be asking the Holy Spirit about. You need to know specifically how the
prevailing of God&rsquo;s Will looks relative to the need. And this is
the case, whether it&rsquo;s a physical need you have, whether
it&rsquo;s a relationship need you have&mdash;wherever needs are. You
see?  This is just practice, so that you approach the minutiae of daily
activities in a new way which leads irrevocably to healing or the
resolution of the need. Because it causes you to experience completion,
wholeness, and the joy that comes from your not being at odds with the
Father in any way any longer.

These are the nuts and bolts of what the Course is teaching. These are
the nuts and bolts of Waking up. These are the practicalities of
spirituality, which perhaps you didn&rsquo;t think there were, perhaps
you didn&rsquo;t think that spirituality had practicalities, but lifted
you above practicalities.

You want to see the evidence of God where it counts, which is in your
experience. And no one has been able to escape their experience. And
that&rsquo;s because even though they&rsquo;ve called their experience
&ldquo;the human condition&rdquo; in a material world and universe,
it&rsquo;s the divine Life in the middle of the Kingdom of Heaven. And
their resistance to the awareness of that fact, has kept them from
experiencing it. We&rsquo;re learning how to abandon what keeps us from
having the experience.

Maybe it stretches you. Paul certainly feels stretched. Susan certainly
feels stretched. But the stretch is worth it, because it pulls you out
of the rut of your revered ignorance, which you&rsquo;re reluctant to
let go of.

I love you all and I look forward to being with you next Saturday so
that we might rejoice together.

Okay.

