---
title: Jul 24, 2010
ref: "Discussion"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

I won&rsquo;t make everyone sit on pins and needles through a quiet
time, but I&rsquo;ll ask you: How many of you remember the word,
&ldquo;glad&rdquo;? I say that because it&rsquo;s a word not in common
use these days. There&rsquo;s a lot of talk about being happy and so on,
but glad doesn&rsquo;t come up. Tonight&rsquo;s a night to be glad.

It&rsquo;s truly a night to be glad.

It&rsquo;s a night to be glad because all of the funds necessary to
purchase the new home are in hand and the escrow office&mdash;the title
company&mdash;has been asked to set a closing date for as &ldquo;soon as
possible,&rdquo; which could be as soon as next Friday but it&rsquo;s
likely to be the first part of the following week.

The smile on Paul&rsquo;s face is his joy.

It is a time for everyone to let themselves be happy. Everyone has
played a part&mdash;so many have played a part in this. Contributions
have come in from all over: Taipei, Japan, Australia, Greece, England,
Ireland, Canada &hellip; oh, and yes, United States&mdash;people Paul
and Susan have never seen the names before, a wonderful confirmation of
the out-reach of the work.

Everyone has poured their love into this project&mdash;if I may call it
a project&mdash;this movement. And even those who have not made
contributions of a financial nature but who have made a contribution of
their spiritual support and prayers, every single one of all of us, have
allowed the manifestation of something wonderful. And indeed, in doing
so, have created a sense of community&mdash;broad
community&mdash;amongst everyone, even though everyone hasn&rsquo;t met
each other and may not even know each others&rsquo; names. Everyone
knows they have been a part of a movement&mdash;a mutual
movement&mdash;a joined movement.

It feels good, doesn&rsquo;t it? The experience of family feels good
&hellip; not because it satisfies the ego, but because it&rsquo;s
important. Family is a very fundamental Meaning that says there&rsquo;s
no one that&rsquo;s isolated. There&rsquo;s no one that can do anything
by himself or herself. There is nothing that is accomplished that
everyone doesn&rsquo;t play some part in. And those of you who have
actively played a part here are feeling that union.

This is a feeling that everyone should be having all the time. This is a
feeling that is normal to Being &hellip; natural to Being. It&rsquo;s
just that it&rsquo;s escaping everyone&rsquo;s attention because
everyone is attempting to accomplish their own ends that they have
created out of their own imagination and never are they joining with the
Father to find out what they can do, shall I say, in tandem with the
Father&mdash;in companionship with the Father&mdash;and thereby being
that which confirms the Movement of God by the fact that it&rsquo;s
recognized by those who have joined with the Father. It&rsquo;s not
only recognized as happening, it&rsquo;s recognized as having its source
in the Father. It&rsquo;s recognized as the direct and immediate
experience or manifestation of Creation.

Now, I thank everyone. I thank everyone for letting their light shine. I
thank everyone for their participating in an activity or a Movement that
they are attributing to God&mdash;that they are attributing to a Cause
outside of some human being&rsquo;s goal&mdash;because that constitutes
the abandonment of isolation. It constitutes an act of joining. It
constitutes a movement of family. And you might say the Light, the
effulgence of Brotherhood grows brighter in such events.

All of what has happened here in the last six weeks or so has to do
with, not just Paul and Susan, but everyone&rsquo;s willingness to ask
to know the truth from the Father&rsquo;s point of view&mdash;or we
could say, from the standpoint of the Holy Spirit, which is nothing more
than each one&rsquo;s right Mind&mdash;and standing with the Vision that
comes forth when one does that, even though it flies right in the face
of what is considered to be possible or even reasonable. You see?

Miracles are what you call &ldquo;events&rdquo; that God causes to
happen, which you are able to observe as the Movement of God when you
abandon your isolation and say, &ldquo;Father, what is the truth
here?&rdquo; &ldquo;Father, what do I need to know?&rdquo;
&ldquo;Father, what is Your Perspective?&rdquo; And in that joining and
in the Revelation that occurs, one moves into that place where
God&rsquo;s laws prevail&mdash;no others. And so that which
doesn&rsquo;t seem to be reasonable can happen. That which goes beyond
what people can &ldquo;wrap their minds around&rdquo; happens.

The call is for all of you to look at your world every day, all day
long, with a curiosity to see beyond your present definitions. And
I&rsquo;ve talked about this endlessly. But here we have a first-hand
example that all of you have been a part of, and you can see that what
has happened is unexpected&mdash;is not what one would expect&mdash;is
not what one would think could happen. Not reasonably anyway, and
certainly not without a lot more effort being made to coerce people to
make such large contributions.

So, at the bottom line, at the least, everyone should feel encouraged
not to look at their world the way they&rsquo;ve been looking at it,
with the assurances they feel about what the world is and how it works
and what you can expect and what you can&rsquo;t expect. And if, when
you ask, &ldquo;Father, what do I need to know?&rdquo; or &ldquo;What do
I need to do?&rdquo; and it is revealed to you what to do, instead of
doubting what you&rsquo;re hearing and denying it offhandedly, pursue it
further if you don&rsquo;t feel comfortable acting upon it. Pursue it
further. Don&rsquo;t put it down, because your Guide or the Holy Spirit
or the Father is more than happy (now that They have your attention) to
elaborate and make clear to you what you need to know. It might not be
as much as you think you need to know, but you will be told what you
need to know so that you might act with conviction and commitment.

If everything you see is the Kingdom of Heaven seen truly or through a
glass darkly&mdash;seeing it for what it is as the Kingdom of Heaven or
as a material world and universe as you think it is&mdash;then it
behooves you, now that you know there&rsquo;s a choice &hellip; it
behooves you to dare to look at what you think is a material world and
universe with a curiosity to see evidences of the Kingdom of Heaven
begin to appear to you.

It&rsquo;s all the Kingdom of Heaven, no matter what! And therefore, it
is not hiding Itself from you. And It is therefore, even insistent upon
registering with you as what It is.

Now, you are able to see, as you&rsquo;ve participated in the last month
or so, that this &ldquo;material world and universe,&rdquo; hasn&rsquo;t
behaved in a normal fashion&mdash;hasn&rsquo;t behaved in the expected
way. And that should inspire you to continue in your own daily lives,
looking with the same kind of curiosity and perhaps the same level of
expectation that you have been able to bring to this movement.

You&rsquo;ve been willing to bring a greater level of expectation
because you think Paul and Susan and those carrying on the activities of
the Northwest Foundation have some greater capacity than you do. They
don&rsquo;t. They just persist a little bit longer than you do. They
insist on persisting longer in listening than you do. And so, you have
an example here that should inspire you as you cope with the minutiae of
daily affairs in your life, which is where, I pointed out last week, the
laws of God prevail. You see?

This is wonderful! And your gladness tonight you can allow to transfer
over to your minutiae of daily affairs, and inspire you to ask God what
do you need to know. You see? And then Listen. And then when you hear,
dare to believe. And if you can&rsquo;t believe fully, then ask further
questions. Insist and persist further, because no matter what you
believe and no matter how long I continue to express the truth, the
truth is true and the truth will prevail. And the fact that it&rsquo;s
all the Kingdom of Heaven will sooner or later be your conscious
experience of Being.

It is so inevitable. Because it is the absolute fact already, that any
degree of faith you bring to looking with innocent eyes&mdash;in other
words, without preconceptions&mdash;is bound to cause you to notice,
even inadvertently, that something didn&rsquo;t behave the way you
expected; something behaved in a way that &hellip; well, if you really
looked at it &hellip; could imply that there were laws that were
prevailing that you weren&rsquo;t familiar with, and that might even
mean that there&rsquo;s a God, for a fact! And that might be
justification for you to look at everything with a little bit more
interest than you have been. You see?

That&rsquo;s what all of this is about: Learning how to see &hellip;
learning how to look.

If you want to have more glad experiences, engage in this. I am telling
you things that bring gladness, and gladness is something that should
fill your minds a lot more than it does.

Now, I thank you again. And without attempting to make Paul or Susan
self-conscious or uncomfortable, I expressed my gratitude to them as
well. Especially because of the fact that they&rsquo;re willing to act
it out. They&rsquo;re willing to lay their lives on the line, so to
speak, and function in what looks like a material world and universe as
though it were the Kingdom of Heaven.

Their behavior these last few months has been behavior&mdash;when it
comes to their vision and their insistence upon knowing what the truth
is here&mdash;it has been an endeavor to behave in the material world
and universe as though it is the Kingdom of Heaven. And they
didn&rsquo;t do it secretly. They did it in front of everyone. They did
it publicly.

Now, this is something every single one of you needs to begin to do in
more earnest than you have been. Because the more you do it with
commitment, the more you&rsquo;re going to see the evidence, and the
more gladness you will feel, and the more joy you will feel, and the
more your gladness and joy will ripple out contagiously and inspire
others. But do understand that this process of Waking up is going to
involve your behaving differently in the world.

Now, if you just went out and told people, &ldquo;Wow, you know what? I
need to and you need to behave differently in the world,&rdquo; that
could be interpreted as, you know, just doing any damned thing you
please, no matter how strange or far-out it might be. But it isn&rsquo;t
that. It&rsquo;s the fact that you need to behave in the world as though
it&rsquo;s the Kingdom of Heaven. And the only way you can do that is to
have someone helping you see the nature and the behavior of the Kingdom
of Heaven so that you can harmonize with It. And that&rsquo;s what the
Holy Spirit is for&mdash;that&rsquo;s what, &ldquo;that which is nothing
more than your right Mind&rdquo; is for&mdash;to cause you to begin once
again, to behave as though you&rsquo;re the holy Son of God in the
Kingdom of Heaven.

And you&rsquo;re going to do it right here before you die, because the
place to do it isn&rsquo;t some place after you die.

Now, Paul and Susan can tell you that when a miracle seems to take four
months, it&rsquo;s like a miracle in slow motion. When the
Father&rsquo;s plans unfold and seem to take time, the slow motion
miracle can seem to be tedious. It can seem to be anxiety-producing. But
that&rsquo;s only when the ego wants its answers right now and gets
impatient with God and then says, &ldquo;If God can&rsquo;t work a
miracle and make it happen now, then probably what&rsquo;s happening
isn&rsquo;t God and isn&rsquo;t a miracle. So, hey you&hellip; Paul,
Sue&hellip; (or whatever your name is), give up!&rdquo; You know?
&ldquo;Go back to controlling things into your life, yourself.&rdquo;

So again, it&rsquo;s a night for gratitude, for gladness. Dare to feel
it. Dare to join in with everyone else who&rsquo;s feeling it. And then
remember this: God said to Moses, &ldquo;Hold up your rod,&rdquo; and
the waters parted. And the children of Israel went across on dry land
and got to the other side. Wow, it was accomplished. They had gotten
away from Pharaoh&rsquo;s soldiers, the threat, the potential death.
They were free!

&ldquo;Oh-h, but what now?&rdquo; You know? &ldquo;I mean okay,
we&rsquo;re free and we&rsquo;re on the other side of the sea, uh-h
&hellip; Where&rsquo;s the completion? Where&rsquo;s the wholeness?

&ldquo;Oh-h, you mean there&rsquo;s more? You mean we have to let
ourselves into the unknown again? Why? So we can have another miracle
and end up standing there needing to listen and allow for another
miracle? Are you saying we&rsquo;re just going to have endless series of
miracles? Oh, come on! Give me the dependable un-miraculous, please! At
least that doesn&rsquo;t keep me on the edge of my seat,
wondering.&rdquo;

Yeah, of course. Wonder&rsquo;s not a good thing, is it? W-o-n-d-e-r-ful
&hellip; g-l-o-r-i-o-u-s.

&ldquo;No Wonder. No. Forget about wonder. Don&rsquo;t leave me
wondering. Please don&rsquo;t ask me to stand in a constant state of
wondering with the potential experience of a constant state of wonder at
the miraculous. Please!&rdquo;

You know &hellip; Noah built the ark.

&ldquo;Okay, God here it is. Man, oh man.

&ldquo;What God? What? You want me to go get two of each kind of animal
and manage to bring &lsquo;em here and put &lsquo;em in the ark? All you
said was, &lsquo;build an ark,&rsquo; you know? You told me how big, you
know? You told me exactly how to build it. I did it!

&ldquo;Um-m, okay.&rdquo;

And he got the animals and brought them on.

&ldquo;There you are God! &ldquo;Yes. [deep sigh] &ldquo;I&rsquo;m done.

&ldquo;What God? You want me to take away the gangplank and close the
hatch? Wait a minute, what&rsquo;s happening? What?

&ldquo;Well you didn&rsquo;t tell me I was going to have to deal with
that. Okay.&rdquo;

So he closes it up and it starts raining and the water rises and the ark
begins to float. And then Noah&rsquo;s perplexed and, you know,
cautiously inquires, &ldquo;What do I need to know now?

&ldquo;I need to what? I need to go clean up what?&rdquo; And
that&rsquo;s where the term &ldquo;poop-deck&rdquo; came into existence.

He had to take care of the animals. Oh-h. Oh yeah. That really was the
minutiae of daily affairs wasn&rsquo;t it? [chuckles] And he was called
upon, you know, to do this that he hadn&rsquo;t expected, and even to
see that this aspect of the &ldquo;cruise&rdquo; and the
&ldquo;cruise&rdquo; itself was part of God&rsquo;s handiwork, was
included in that Place where God&rsquo;s laws prevail, so that he could
begin to see the Hand of God in everything. You see what I&rsquo;m
saying?

And the Israelites came into the experience of, and the conscious
awareness of God&rsquo;s Hand in everything. So the meaning of the word
&ldquo;God&rdquo; became really relevant in the minutiae of daily
affairs.

Now, here we are faced with the same call they were. Everyone is,
whether they&rsquo;re studying A Course In Miracles or taking dope. They
are at a point of having the opportunity to see God in their experience
instead of what they believe their experience is all about.

Every single one of you is confronted with the call to find a way to
behave in the &ldquo;material world and universe&rdquo; as though it
were the Kingdom of Heaven, so that the Vision of It, as what It truly
Is, can begin to glimmer and flash and catch your attention&mdash;so
that you see It, right here, not after you die.

Keep &hellip; keep the awareness that the Kingdom of Heaven is flashing
and sparking and doing things to catch your attention, to uncover the
places where nothing is behaving according to the &ldquo;laws of
matter,&rdquo; we&rsquo;ll say&mdash;things are not behaving the way
you&rsquo;re expecting&mdash;so that you continually stand at the edge
of the unknown having the unknown reveal itself to you so that that
becomes the new norm.

Now, simple grounded perspective: The movement has begun. It has
uncovered the means to purchase the house in as little as perhaps ten
days from now. Then what? Then the move really begins and things will
need to be done and support will be needed.

What does that mean? It means that it&rsquo;s the opportunity for you to
become still and go within and ask the Father how to see what appears to
be a material world and universe founded on scarcity, finiteness and
limitation, as the Kingdom of Heaven. &ldquo;Father, how do I see this
as the Kingdom of Heaven? How do I see this so that I can see Your Hand
in everything?&rdquo;

And watch how much thinking it seems to create. How many thoughts
&hellip; [chuckles] &hellip; how many thoughts can come up before you
let the Father answer? How many thoughts do you want to deal with before
the Father answers because you think having those thoughts will protect
you from an answer from God that you won&rsquo;t want to hear because
you think that the answer from God is going to ask of you something you
can&rsquo;t do &hellip; when the answer from God is going to reveal
wholeness and completeness now&mdash;not after you die&mdash;in a way
that causes gladness.

And you know what? You have watched. Like the breeze blowing through the
trees, you&rsquo;ve seen the leaves rustling and you know the breeze was
there. You&rsquo;ve watched, perhaps, online as updates were given and
you&rsquo;ve seen numbers change, which means that something has been
blowing through them to cause them to change. And so, you&rsquo;ve seen
that there is a thing called family that you&rsquo;re a part of that
you&rsquo;re one with.

Now, this is an experience that is more highly illuminated to you right
now than it was a month ago. You feel it more than you did a month ago.
Don&rsquo;t abandon it, don&rsquo;t lose it. I want you, in your
awareness of it, for lack of better words, to include all those that
you&rsquo;re feeling the presence of in your prayers. Not that you have
a goal for them&hellip; but include them in your caring.

Include them when you&rsquo;re asking, &ldquo;Father, what do I need to
know here?&rdquo; It&rsquo;s like, &ldquo;Father, what do I need to know
in the context of this family that I hadn&rsquo;t been experiencing as
fully and as meaningfully as I am right now.&rdquo; And you might also
ask, &ldquo;Father, help me not to lose this feeling, this awareness
that I&rsquo;m not alone.&rdquo; You see?

And then, because this is the main idea I am meaning to convey tonight,
remember to approach your world as though it&rsquo;s the Kingdom of
Heaven. Dare to behave in what appears to be a material world and
universe as though it were the Kingdom of Heaven. And as I said, do it
by asking the Father or the Holy Spirit, &ldquo;What is the truth here?
Help me to see this material world and universe get translated into the
Kingdom of Heaven, right here, right now.&rdquo;

It is a night of gratitude. Let it serve to expand and illuminate the
Kingdom of Heaven more clearly than ever before, so that you begin to
live tonight and tomorrow and the next day in a new way.

I love you all and I look forward to being with you next week.

