---
title: Aug 28, 2010
ref: "Discussion"
---

It has been rightly said that Mind is its own great cause and effect. I
don&rsquo;t particularly like that choice of words, because of the
meaning given to the word &ldquo;effect.&rdquo; Effect is usually
thought of as something separate and apart from the cause. And that does
not express a unity.

We are going to be talking about unity tonight, because unity is
simplicity. Being, being a unity, is simple. Duplicity is not.

And so, I prefer these words: &ldquo;Mind is its own great cause and
event.&rdquo;

In other words, Mind being cause, giving rise to Creation is an event
itself. It is the event itself. Mind and its Movement are one and the
same. Creation is not separate from the Mind of God.  Creation is not
separate from God. Mind is its own great cause and event.

Now, we&rsquo;ve said before that you and your Father are One, and that
One is your Father.  Listen again: You and your Father are One, and that
One is your Father. We can also say: Your will and the Father's Will are
One, and that One Will is the Father&rsquo;s.

You see, this is where the Singularity is, this is where the simplicity
is. You cannot say: You and your Father are One, and you are that One.
That idea is the definition of the orphan&mdash;the independent one,
self-authorized, being an authorizer on its own.

No. You and your Father are One, and the Father is that One.

Now, I&rsquo;m not playing with words here. We&rsquo;ve been talking
about the holy instant and the fact that the holy instant is the result
of what? Of doing the two-step.  And what is the two-step? The two-step
is you, hesitating &hellip; you abandoning your independent,
self-creative thinking. And in the silence that occurs&mdash;in the
absence of your thinking&mdash;you reach out and say, &ldquo;Father,
what is the meaning here? Father, what is the truth here?&rdquo; You
see?

You abandon the creative one that you have thought you were in favor of
connecting with your Source, which constitutes the whole of You.

The simplicity of this lies in the fact that when you do this, you yield
to Something other than yourself, you yield to Something other than who
and what you have thought you were.

Now, it is reported that in the Garden of Gethsemane I said&mdash;in a
moment of weakness&mdash;&ldquo;Father, if it be possible, let this cup
pass from me. But nevertheless, not my will, but Thine be done.&rdquo;

This is a perfect example of the two-step. And for that reason I share
it, even though it is not a phrase that ever was uttered from my lips.

All of you approach the Father with prayers, with requests for this,
that or the other thing that you feel is exactly what you need, and
which you are sure you need. But if you practice the two-step, you
abandon that request and you say, &ldquo;Nevertheless, Father, Thy Will
not mine be done. Father, what is the truth here? Father, what do I need
to know?&rdquo; You see?

The reason this is so important is because cause does not lie in the
realm of effects. Cause does not lie in the realm of what you call
manifestations.

Let me give you an example of what I mean here. And I&rsquo;m not
sharing this as a definition of dreams, but rather to illustrate a
meaning: You&rsquo;re asleep. It&rsquo;s early in the morning. One of
the children has a need, gets up and knocks on your door.

You, lying in bed, are having a dream. And in the dream you&rsquo;re at
work. And in the middle of your business, you hear a knock at the door.
Well, the dream goes on. But the point is, that the cause of your
hearing a knock on the door in your dream is not because it was
happening there, but, we will say, at a different level of conscious
awareness. It&rsquo;s occurring in the room where you&rsquo;re sleeping.
You see? Cause does not lie at the level of effect. This is important.

Another example: As independent agents we&rsquo;ve discussed your being
an orphan, your behaving as though you are fatherless, motherless, and
you are an independent entity in your own right.

Now, because Mind is Its own great cause and event, whatever
you&rsquo;re experiencing as an orphan is not an experience arising out
of the orphanage.

I said&mdash;and I said truly&mdash;&ldquo;In my Father&rsquo;s house
are many mansions. If it were not so, I would have told you.&rdquo;

Every one of these mansions, you could say, is a vantage point&mdash;an
infinite vantage point&mdash;a vantage point from which all of Creation
is experienced by you &hellip; and you &hellip; and you &hellip; and
you. You see?

But those mansions, to the independent entity, the one caught up in a
belief about himself as being fatherless, motherless, and having this
wonderfully exciting and fearful experience of accomplishing things all
by itself, experiences these mansions as dormitories in an orphanage.

Mind you, because Mind is Its own great cause and event, and there is
not anything separate from it, what&rsquo;s experienced in the
orphanage, as an orphanage has to be the Kingdom of Heaven and our
Father&rsquo;s mansions, of which there are many&mdash;infinity of them.
You see?

Whatever you&rsquo;re experiencing that is not a true experience, is not
a separate experience. It&rsquo;s not an experience separate from
Reality. It&rsquo;s just a biased experience of what is Real.

Now, if you are in bed asleep and your son has knocked on the door
because there&rsquo;s a need, and you dreamed that somebody was knocking
at your door in your office, you&rsquo;re not going to be able to
respond appropriately if you go to your office door.

Somewhere a shift of attention has to occur from your misperception to
the Reality. You see? So that you might wake up &hellip; get out of bed
&hellip; go to the door and help your son.

Now, you all have what are at least two experiences of being conscious.
One is what you would call your waking consciousness. Everyday when you
get up, take care of your affairs, live your life, respond to things
that need to be done which you are in charge of.

And the other is what you experience when you fall asleep at night and
you&rsquo;re not aware that you&rsquo;re in charge of anything. And what
you&rsquo;re experiencing is not a connection with Reality at all. You
understand that things that happen in the reality of your bedroom or
your chair where you have fallen asleep, will be translated into events
in your dream, therefore, they are not occurring at the level of the
dream. And they cannot be responded to at the level of your dream.

Now, when you do the two-step, what you are doing is shutting up the
conscious thinking activity during your day when you say you are awake.
You are abandoning authority you believe you have as an independent
entity in a godless world. And you reach out for your Source, you reach
out for That which Knows the truth, you reach out for that Mind which is
Its own great cause and event&mdash;which is inseparable from your Mind.

You and your Father are one, and the Father is that One. Your mind and
the Father&rsquo;s Mind are one, and that One is the Father&rsquo;s
Mind.

You see, what you&rsquo;re doing when you do the two-step is, you are
shifting from a dream that you call being awake, which amounts to
distorted perceptions of Reality, so that you might join with the
Source&mdash;the Movement of Creation&mdash;that is Its own great cause
and event, so that you might experience and respond to everything from
the place where God is Being It and from the place where it is not only
your Birthright but your function to experience truly.

Now, not all of what I&rsquo;m saying right now is new. And we&rsquo;re
still talking about the two-step. We&rsquo;re still talking about the
holy instant. But we&rsquo;re embellishing it and giving it broader and
deeper meaning.

Now, we&rsquo;ve talked before about the fact that when you do the
two-step and employ the holy instant, you move into that place where
God&rsquo;s laws prevail. Now what does that mean? It means you&rsquo;ve
moved into that place where the Will of God is done&mdash;where God's
Will is done.

Now that might not even seem radical to you or exceptional, but if you
stop and think about it, if you do the two-step and you move into the
holy instant and you are where God's Will is done, you&rsquo;re going to
have an experience that absolutely reflects God's Will not
yours&mdash;not the one you thought you have had as an orphan.

And you&rsquo;re to what? You&rsquo;re going to start having a new
experience&mdash;a transformed experience&mdash;one which you&rsquo;re
not responsible for because you&rsquo;ve abandoned your so-called
authority to be a cause in your own right.

And so, when you move into this place where God's laws prevail and
therefore, God's Will is done, you&rsquo;re going to begin to have a
transformed experience of dormitories in an orphanage. And you&rsquo;re
going to begin to experience what they truly are&mdash;the mansions, the
mini-mansions. You see?

You&rsquo;re going to begin to experience everything that you had
misperceptions of and whose purposes were something you had determined
through your imagination as what God is Being them as (not good
English). You will begin to experience them with the purpose God has
placed in them as part of the Movement of Creation that is Its own great
cause and event.

In effect, what I&rsquo;m saying is, that it will feel like something
other than you has taken over. And it will be God. And it will
constitute a transformed experience in practical, living, daily terms in
your life.

Now, Paul and Susan have been having this experience for the last four
or five months as this movement regarding a new residence and a new
place from which to engage in the work has unfolded. It is as though
things were taken out of their hands&mdash;a movement began which they
didn&rsquo;t ask for and which they have had to, I&rsquo;m going to say,
yield to, because they had different preferences: They wanted to stay
cozy and simple and with that which was familiar, even though
God&rsquo;s fulfillment of purpose was different from that.

And so, incredible things have happened&mdash;not at their
hand&mdash;things that do not seem reasonable, they can&rsquo;t be
justified in any human sense and it&rsquo;s not clear to them what the
divine event is yet. And this is what everyone has in store for them as
they begin to do the two-step and practice the holy instant.

I bring this out because it&rsquo;s a promise of fulfillment that lies
within you in your decision to abandon your thinking and yield into the
Father with a genuine curiosity to know what the truth is beyond your
current definition of it.

You will find that as this movement that goes beyond your concepts of
reasonability occur&mdash;as wonderful as they are&mdash;you will begin
to feel uncomfortable because you&rsquo;re not in charge of them and
your conditioning is, to believe that you are supposed to be and
therefore you&rsquo;re being negligent and therefore the potential to be
guilty of making a mistake arises in you. And what does that do? It
spoils the Movement of God that is occurring in you, in your experience,
because you have said you want to Wake up. You have said, &ldquo;I want
to do the two-step. I want to practice the holy instant. I want to be in
that place where God&rsquo;s laws are prevailing,&rdquo; which means,
&ldquo;I want to be in that place where God&rsquo;s Will is done,&rdquo;
not will be done, not was done, but is done &hellip; is done &hellip; is
done &hellip; is done. You see? Moment-by-moment &hellip;
moment-after-moment.

Now, when this uncomfortableness and threat of guilt begins to consume
you, you revert to your old habit of thinking. You do what will bring
things back into balance as far as you&rsquo;re concerned, as far as
your belief is concerned. And the moment you begin thinking, you have
abandoned your connection with Reality. You have withdrawn your
attention from the bedroom where you are sleeping and your son has
knocked on the door. And you have reverted to the office you are
dreaming you are in, and you are answering the door with the intent to
respond well, there. And you see, there, you are not coping with
anything actual at all. And anything that occurs there does not
accomplish anything relative to your son, in your real life, whose
knocking at your door with a need at four in the morning. You see? And
you want to be responding to the Reality and not to an imagination where
nothing is actually happening at all.

Now, I am using the word &ldquo;dream&rdquo; carefully here because, in
effect, what you call your waking daily life is dream-like at least,
because it&rsquo;s full of misperceptions which you are believing
whole-heartedly and according to which you are governing your actions.
That is the equivalent of answering the door in your office and
attending to whoever&rsquo;s out there and doing it well in your dream.
Nothing is actually happening. But what you are confronted by and what
you are having to deal with is the Kingdom of Heaven instead of a
dormitory. It is one of the Father&rsquo;s many mansions. It is that
which is happening at the level of God. It is that which is happening at
the level of Mind being its own great cause and event. It&rsquo;s you
shifting to the place where the Father&rsquo;s Will registers with you
as yours and you&rsquo;re not at all confused because you know
it&rsquo;s your Father&rsquo;s, you know that it has the depth and
breath and scope of the power&mdash;the almighty power&mdash;of God.

And you are very comfortable abiding in that conscious experience,
embracing that conscious experience as yours, because you are
experiencing it and making commitment to it because you have no desire
to engage in any other act of independence.

Now, my point is this (the one I want to convey) and it&rsquo;s actually
a simple point: There&rsquo;s only one thing going on, it&rsquo;s the
Kingdom of Heaven, as I&rsquo;ve been saying for years, which you are
either seeing clearly or through a glass darkly. When you&rsquo;re
seeing it through a glass darkly, you are believing what isn&rsquo;t
true and you&rsquo;re suffering from your ignorance of what truth is.
And yet the truth is about the very things you are having
misunderstandings: Reality, Creation, God&rsquo;s Presence.

And so, if you want to experience them, if you want to lose the
confusion and the suffering from the confusion you&rsquo;re working
under, you must be willing to bring your attention, I&rsquo;m going to
say, to the bedroom where your son is knocking at the door, to that
place where God is Being All, where God&rsquo;s laws prevail, where
God&rsquo;s Will is done. Because that&rsquo;s where the spark [snaps
fingers] &hellip; that&rsquo;s where the light will go on, that&rsquo;s
where the clarity will come that tells you what the events really Are,
what Creation really Is, so that you might respond to it with the
fullness of appreciation and awe for what It is.

Be renewed by the transforming of your Minds &hellip; be renewed by the
transforming of your Minds. It&rsquo;s accomplished through the two-step
and the holy instant. It&rsquo;s the effect of abiding in the holy
instant and inviting God&rsquo;s Perception, inviting the experience of
your mind and God&rsquo;s Mind being One and that One is God&rsquo;s.

It&rsquo;s time for transformation. It&rsquo;s time for a transformed
experience of everything you&rsquo;re experiencing. But you&rsquo;re
going to have to stop trying to deal with it from here. You&rsquo;re
going to have to stop trying to deal from the level of your best
definitions of it.

Everything that you&rsquo;re experiencing is going on in a different way
from the way you&rsquo;re interpreting It. As a result, you bump into
It, you&rsquo;re awkward with It, you behave in a way inconsistent with
It because you&rsquo;re responding to your definitions of It. You
deserve to have fulfillment registering with you in every aspect of your
days. That&rsquo;s your Birthright and that&rsquo;s the point of
everything we&rsquo;re talking about.

And so again, Mind is it&rsquo;s own great cause and event. You and your
Father are one and the Father is that One. Your will and the
Father&rsquo;s Will are one and the Father&rsquo;s Will is that One.

Reality is going on in Reality, not in your misunderstandings of
Reality. But you&rsquo;re having your misunderstandings of Reality in
the middle of Reality and about all of the aspects of Reality&mdash;the
Singularity is present. What you want is to experience the Singularity
as Singular &hellip; simple &hellip; undeniably fulfilling.

As you go through your day, let your desire be to experience the
fullness of what God is Being and Meaning in each and everything
you&rsquo;re confronted with. Don&rsquo;t seek it in your perception of
it at the moment. Ask &hellip; you might say, put a periscope up from
where you are into the Kingdom of Heaven [chuckles] right here where you
are, so that Someone with clarity can reveal to you what the truth is of
this place where you are and your mind can be transformed so that you
see everything as the fulfillment it is.

As you start having these fulfilling experiences your friends and
acquaintances might begin to question what is happening with you. Thank
God &hellip; because they&rsquo;re noticing something that needs to be
noticed so that they begin to bring their curiosity into play relative
to their experience. You see?

Now, the movement continues with Paul and Sue and the move. And the
movement continues with everyone who has been participating and those
who haven&rsquo;t. And the blessings of it will continue. The Meaning of
the Movement will make Itself clear to everyone as everyone abides with
it without attempting to bring their best definitions to it. Quit trying
to figure it out &hellip; you hear? Quit trying to figure it out, and
ask, &ldquo;Father, where&rsquo;s the meaning here? What is the Meaning
here?&rdquo; and then shut up and listen so that the Movement of
Fulfillment can register with you, and so that everything you do
identifies Fulfillment and becomes like a chain-reaction&mdash;like
dominoes falling&mdash;affecting those you know.

Again, when you ask of the Father, &ldquo;What is the truth here?&rdquo;
and you genuinely become silent and you listen attentively you will be
given the answer.

And what I mean to convey tonight is, that it won&rsquo;t come purely as
an intellectual answer, it will come as a wave of Movement that is
constituted of changes in your life that identify good beyond your
capacity to create it on your own. It&rsquo;s that simple. And
that&rsquo;s the thought I want to leave you with tonight so that you
may abide with it. Let it be with you. Let it inspire your attention.

Remember, you think you&rsquo;re living in a material world and
universe, but you know what? . . It&rsquo;s really the Kingdom of
Heaven. What&rsquo;s happening in the material world and universe is not
originating in the material world and universe, it&rsquo;s originating
in the Kingdom of Heaven, as the Kingdom of Heaven, no matter how
you&rsquo;re misinterpreting It. And all you want to do is abandon the
misinterpretation and the faith you have in your misinterpretations.
That&rsquo;s going to constitute the transforming of your mind.

It&rsquo;s a Wholeness &hellip; It&rsquo;s a Oneness &hellip; It&rsquo;s
a Singularity, as you let God be all there is to You.

I love you all. And I look forward to being with you next week.

