---
title: Sep 4, 2010
ref: "Discussion"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

Tonight we won&rsquo;t take a quiet time.

There&rsquo;s one thing I want everyone to consider&mdash;one important
thing: We have, for some time, been talking about the two-step. The
two-step, meaning, that instead of assuming that you know what
everything means, instead of assuming that you know what the appropriate
response is to a situation and just proceeding on the basis of your
experience or your best judgments, you instead hesitate. That&rsquo;s
the first step of the two-step: You hesitate. You stop your thoughts in
midstream. You stop your automatic response in midstream.

And then you take the second step. You ask, &ldquo;What is the truth
here?&rdquo; You ask the question of That which knows the answer, which
is either God or the Holy Spirit.

In other words, you abandon your independence, your independent action,
your assertion of a self that has a capacity to be an author in its own
right. You abandon that. After all, the simple fact is, that whenever
anyone gets into trouble it&rsquo;s because they&rsquo;ve listened only
to themselves &hellip; right? Or they&rsquo;ve listened to someone else
who&rsquo;s listening only to themselves.

And always, any form of ultimate solution to a problem arises out of,
one way or another, doing the two-step, where you abandon
self-assertive, authoritative expression of will, and you say,
&ldquo;Father, in spite of what I think, in spite of my best judgments,
what is the truth here? What is really going on here, divinely speaking?
What is the truth about my Brother, divinely speaking? What is the
answer to this problem I have gotten myself into as a result of
listening only to myself?&rdquo;

Whenever one arrives at that point and genuinely listens, genuinely
allows in something other than his or her own judgments, God
speaks&mdash;the Holy Spirit speaks&mdash;and you hear. And the result
is far different from any assertive actions you might engage in, or
might have engaged in based upon your best judgments. And the result is
always transformational. It changes you.

Now the question is, why? And the answer is the fundamental idea that I
want to share tonight and that I want to leave with you so that you may
contemplate it and let it deeply register with you: The reason
God&rsquo;s answers are transformational is because God is never
speaking to who you think you are. God is never speaking to who you
think you are. God is always speaking to who He Knows you Are.

To God, you are His beloved Son in whom He is well pleased. You are His
beloved Daughter in whom He is well pleased. The reason He knows this is
because you are His Self-expression. You are His off-spring. You are the
embodiment of all that He is: His nature, His character, His wisdom, His
integrity, His incapacity to be confused. In other words, His capacity
to be single-minded, therefore clear, therefore incapable of generating
conflict.

This is what you Are. And this is Who He speaks to.

And so His Vision of you, which is the Truth about you, becomes conveyed
in your very being, in your present experience of who you think you are.
And as that registers with you, it imbues you with new energy, with new
nature&mdash;new to you&mdash;different from that which was typical of
who you thought you were.

And so you experience rejuvenation, you experience healing, you
experience transformation, you experience a perspective that changes the
way you confront your world. All of this because God is not speaking to
who you think you are, but to who He Knows you Are.

So if that&rsquo;s true, why would you insist upon relying upon your own
best judgments which are never transformational? Why would you hold onto
and energize your pet theories when they&rsquo;ve never transformed you?
When they&rsquo;ve never caused you to have an entirely new perspective
about your world and about your fellowman that causes you to behave
toward them differently in ways that what? &hellip; in ways that cause
them, perhaps, to have the same sort of transformational insight about
themselves that you have experienced about yourself.

You know, religions can give you a lot of rules to follow, a lot of
obediences to practice. But the simple fact is, that what truly means
something and what is truly transformational, is when you abandon your
attempts at controlling your experience through obediences and through
the practices of principles that are, in so many words, head-trips and
become part of your self-definition and part of who you think you are
because all of that is nothing more than the practice of memory. And
memory is dead! Memory is not enlivened by the Spirit of Being&mdash;and
I&rsquo;m going to say Being with a capital &ldquo;B&rdquo;&mdash;the
presence of God.

The thing is, that everyone gets caught up in a dutiful and insistent
practice of memory of who one thinks he is, of the assertion of an
independent self that one never ever really was.

And the simple solution to the problems that are the result of such
practices is abandoning&mdash;as I&rsquo;ve said over and over&mdash;the
private independent self-authorizing being that you think you are, and
saying, &ldquo;Father &hellip;God &hellip; Holy Spirit, what&rsquo;s the
truth here? How do You see me? How do you see my fellowman that
I&rsquo;m having difficulty with? How do you see this situation in the
context of God? I want to know so that I no longer suffer from my
ignorance or my misunderstandings. I want to be filled with the
conscious experience of God&rsquo;s Perspective so that I might be
transformed and my perceptions might be transformed and brought into
harmony with Reality as God is Being It.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Because you know what? I want to be transformed by a conscious
experience of union with Something greater than I think I am. I want to
have that experience of Spirit&mdash;the lively enlivening Presence of
God&mdash;that enlivens my dowdy pessimistic limited perception of
this, that or the other thing, and brightens it up in ways that bring
out its eternality instead of its inevitable death. I want to be
renewed. And I&rsquo;m beginning to grasp that as long as I&rsquo;m
holding on to my best judgments, my best memories, my pet theories,
I&rsquo;m already in the realm of the memorized&mdash;the
dead&mdash;the un-enlivened. And you know what? I don&rsquo;t want to
hang out there because I know if I do it&rsquo;s going to rub off on
me, and I&rsquo;m going to become un-enlivened and dowdy and I&rsquo;m
going to inevitably die, even though Something in me tells me that
that&rsquo;s not my Birthright.&rdquo;

The two-step: Well, we can&rsquo;t say enough about it. We can&rsquo;t
emphasize it enough, because it&rsquo;s the way out of the realm and
experience of sin, disease and death.

Instead of automatically believing that you think you know what a thing
means or you think you know what a thing is, practice that moment of
hesitation where you shut up! And in the silence you say,
&ldquo;Father,&rdquo;&mdash;and what you mean is God, or you mean That
which has the infinite perspective, the true
perspective&mdash;&ldquo;Father, Holy Spirit, what is the Truth
here?&rdquo; Truth with a capital &ldquo;T,&rdquo; not the truth about
your fellowman and what a bastard he is. That&rsquo;s not the Truth
about him. And if&rsquo;s not going to help you to have a clear-cut
explanation of why he is such a bastard and what the proofs are.

You want to know the Truth about him. You see? You need God to speak to
You and be speaking to the one He knows you Are instead of the one you
think you are. And your fellowman needs the same thing. Because when
that Vision is being used, it lifts you and it lifts your fellowman out
of the doldrums, out of the dowdiness, out of the pessimism, out of the
on-your-way-to-the-grave experience. It inspires, because it illuminates
the Spirit of You that God speaks to because God put It there and God
Knows It&rsquo;s there. And you seem to be the only one left out of the
loop because you think you are what you think you are &hellip; and
it&rsquo;s a lot less.

Now, there&rsquo;s one other aspect of this that I want to share tonight
and that is this: Very often you don&rsquo;t hear God speaking to you
because He&rsquo;s not talking to you in the way you expect Him to talk
to you. When He talks to you He doesn&rsquo;t talk to you as though you
are the bastard you think you are, or you are not the poor soul that you
think you are, or you are not the useless one you think you are, or the
unkind one, or the one who can&rsquo;t understand things. You see? God
Knows You and speaks to you as though you are all that He Is at this
very moment enlivening you with, because He is Creating you in every
moment out of Himself.

God always speaks to you in grander or larger terms than you think of
yourself. Some of you actually put in earplugs, if you will, to avoid
hearing God, because you are afraid God is going to speak to who you
think you are and that is going to be an unpleasant
experience&mdash;He&rsquo;s going to be chastising you, He&rsquo;s going
to be judging you, He&rsquo;s going to be taking away your good because
you no longer deserve it. And that&rsquo;s why what I&rsquo;m saying
tonight is so important. God is not speaking to who you think you are.

God is speaking to Who He Knows you Are and He Knows you Are His direct
expression in this moment &hellip; in this moment &hellip; in this
moment &hellip; in this moment. You see?

&ldquo;Behold I make all things new.&rdquo;[^1] &ldquo;Behold I make all
things new &hellip; behold I make you new &hellip; I make you new
&hellip; I make you new. And I make you out of what I Am and so I Know
what you Are made of, and I Know what the Truth is about You and
It&rsquo;s much more than you think you are. And I want you to
experience what you Are. I want you to experience the more than what you
think you are.&rdquo;

And so, at the bottom line, it means that when you practice the two-step
and you hesitate and you don&rsquo;t act in the world on the basis of
your memory and you ask, &ldquo;Father, what&rsquo;s the Truth
here?&rdquo; so that you might have the Vision that allows you to behave
in an in-Spirited way, in a divine way, you will be fulfilling your
function and you will be having an experience that far exceeds anything
you could have arrive at through your best judgments.

What you really want is, not to have to rely upon your best judgments
based upon your best thinking, based upon your experience. You want your
judgments&mdash;if we&rsquo;re going to call them that&mdash;you want
your judgments to be living assessments of the Son of God or the
Daughter of God that God is Being right there in what you call your
sister or your brother or your fellowman or yourself. That&rsquo;s what
you want. And I&rsquo;m reminding you that that&rsquo;s something you
can ask for every day, all day long. And you do not have to get caught
in the habit of memory.

It&rsquo;s very important. It&rsquo;s the Truth. You deserve a lot more
than you let yourself have. And the Father is extending a lot more to
you than you&rsquo;re willing to embrace. And that is because you have
forgotten that God is never speaking to who you think you are. He is
speaking to who He Knows you Are because in this moment &hellip; in this
moment &hellip; in this moment &hellip; in this moment &hellip; in this
moment &hellip; in this moment &hellip; He is Being You, new.

And so He Knows Who you Are and He Knows What you Are and you Are Him
Expressed and nothing more&mdash;nothing aside from that. You are His
Beloved Son, You are His Beloved Daughter in whom He is well pleased.
And you deserve the experience of that pleasure.

And you know what? Your fellowman deserves the experience of that
pleasure when he&rsquo;s with you. And you can provide that pleasure by
asking of the Father, &ldquo;What&rsquo;s the Truth here about my
fellowman, instead of what I think the truth is about my
fellowman?&rdquo;

So, that&rsquo;s all I&rsquo;m going to talk about tonight. It&rsquo;s a
simple idea, but profound and transformational and if you want to put it
in this context, it&rsquo;s the real meaning of religion.

I love you &hellip; and I love you &hellip; and I love you &hellip; and
I love everyone who has joined us on the Internet.

Abide with what I&rsquo;ve shared. Your practice of it, your letting it
happen with you, will be like knocking down the first domino and others
will follow. It&rsquo;s important. It is transformational.

And I look forward to being with your next week. Thank you.

[^1]: Revelation 21:4-5

