---
title: Sep 11, 2010
ref: "Discussion"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

You know, as a bottom line, the real meaning&mdash;not just the
message&mdash;but the real meaning of religion is love. And no matter
what the religion is called, if one comes into an experience of it, one
finds that he has a function&mdash;a divine function. And that divine
function is to be the Presence of Love.

At the bottom line, that&rsquo;s the center and circumference of true
religion.

And as the Bible says, &ldquo;Perfect Love casteth out fear.&rdquo;[^1] And
as everyone knows, fear is rampant around your globe, boldly scaring
people into behavior that is destructive&mdash;anti-social.

And the problem is that fear seems to command everyone&rsquo;s
attention, whether it&rsquo;s a little bit of fear or a lot of fear, it
is always engaging. It always gets you and it keeps you&mdash;it keeps
your attention on it and it completely distracts you from your capacity
to release yourself from it. In fact, it presents itself to you as a
survival mode. It presents itself to you as something essential to your
well-being. It will keep you safe. If you never became afraid, you would
never protect yourself against harm.

That can seem reasonable but it completely overlooks and overrides the
fact that there is basic intelligence built into you&mdash;built into
every one of you no matter what your age, no matter what your
experience. And that basic intelligence can provide you with the means
of remaining safe if a call for safety presents itself.

One does not have to be in a state of fear in order to be, shall I say,
in order to have integrity. It&rsquo;s not necessary at all. But the
experience of fear distracts you from that fact.

Now, as you can see, the theme tonight is the Gifts of God. In another
place in the Bible, it says, &ldquo;For God hath not given us &hellip;
(given, gifted us) God has not given us the spirit of fear; but of power
and, of love and, of a sound mind.&rdquo;[^2]

Well, what&rsquo;s a &ldquo;sound mind?&rdquo; A sound mind is a mind
that is integrated. Better put than that, it is unified&mdash;it&rsquo;s
a unity. It therefore has no fragmentation in it and it is therefore
incapable of feeling anything other than the security of its unity.
That&rsquo;s what a sound mind is. That&rsquo;s what God has given all
of us. And that&rsquo;s what fear causes you to forget. And so you
ignore that Gift.

Well, fear is always accompanied by, or always instills in you the
feeling of guilt. Feeling guilty causes you to dread the penalty that is
associated with guilt. And so fear binds you up in what seems like an
inescapable attraction to destructive thinking. It causes you to become
confused and to just roll around in fear, anxiety, imaginations that
have no basis in fact.

This equally distracts you from the other Gift, that of power. Now, God
has given you the spirit of power, love and of a sound mind. This power
is not a private power. It is an expressing in you of God&rsquo;s
Presence and power. It is an imbuing you with the Presence of
God&rsquo;s power. It is the way you experience the unity of a sound
mind.

It&rsquo;s not power over anything, but an awareness that no power is
called for. Because in the safety of the unity of your Mind, and
therefore of your conscious experience of Being, and because there is no
fragmentation, there&rsquo;s no opposition, there&rsquo;s no conflict,
there&rsquo;s nothing to protect yourself against.

Now I&rsquo;m bringing this up, not because this is September 11th, not
because it is a day in which a lot of fear was caused, not because it is
a day which&mdash;because of events that occurred&mdash;caused a lot of
misunderstandings to arise in the world community, where enemies were
seen who were not enemies, and a call for defense against them aroused
anxiety, anger, calls for retribution and so on. No, that&rsquo;s not
why I&rsquo;m talking about it tonight. I&rsquo;m talking about it
because, as I said when I began, as you come into an experience of the
real meaning of religion and as you come into an experience of the real
meaning taught by A Course In Miracles, you find that and you learn that
you have a function&mdash;you have a purpose&mdash;one which you might
not otherwise have been aware of. And that purpose is to be your
Brother&rsquo;s savior.

You know, that&rsquo;s what fear calls for. It calls for you to
remember your function, which is to be enjoying the Gifts of God: the
spirit of power, the spirit of love and the spirit of a sound mind.

Why? Because when you abandon your gripping need to feel the agitation
of fear, you become the Presence of peace. You become the Presence of
That which can inspire the abandonment of fear in your Brother &hellip;
your Sister.

Your task is to reflect God. That&rsquo;s all there is to it at the
bottom line.

Oh, that doesn&rsquo;t mean to become Mr. and Mrs. Goody-two-shoes. No.
It means to become a genuine valid presence from whom
integrity&mdash;unfeigned integrity&mdash;real integrity shines and
blesses everything you give your attention to. Your purpose is not to be
a spokesman for God, but to be the presence of what you Are, which
happens to be the evidence of God.

You&rsquo;re here to enjoy such an experience of peace and stability (a
sound mind) and the power that accompanies it. Why? Because there is
really nothing else worthwhile to do. And because if you dare to embrace
and embody that, your Brothers and Sisters are blessed.

Now, if you have this capacity, if it&rsquo;s God&rsquo;s Gift to you,
if God by being You in every moment, causes these Gifts to be your
makeup, then your task and everyone else&rsquo;s task as long as fear is
rampant, is to be that Presence which alleviates fear.

&ldquo;Well, I&rsquo;m not going to alleviate his fear. He&rsquo;s not
alleviating anybody else&rsquo;s fear. He&rsquo;s being a real problem.
He&rsquo;s being a real asshole. He&rsquo;s being a real
irritation!&rdquo;

Well, I&rsquo;ll tell you something: As you sit there declaring that,
you&rsquo;re being a real irritation and you&rsquo;re fueling the fire
of fear and you&rsquo;re not being a peace-maker.

&ldquo;Well, nobody likes a peace-maker, ya know &hellip; hey, everybody
likes a good tussle every now and then. That&rsquo;s what makes life
interesting &hellip; the vigor of it!&rdquo;

But, no. Your function is to reflect your Source&mdash;to allow That
which is being You at this very moment &hellip; to show.

Now you may not think you have it in you to do it for your Brother. But,
if that&rsquo;s the case, you don&rsquo;t think you have it in you to do
it for yourself. And I mean by that, that you have not discovered your
capacity to relieve yourself of or to abandon the practice of fear and
your pre-occupation with it&mdash;your addiction to it&mdash;where you
cannot take your attention off of it, and you cannot stop embellishing
it and making it absolutely real and justifying it and on and on and on.

So I&rsquo;m here in spite of your fear to convey to you that you have
the means of setting it aside. Not only do you have the means:
It&rsquo;s your function. You&rsquo;re not here as the expression of God
to present a picture of something unlike God or to be something other
than what God is Being right there where you are.

You&rsquo;re here to be fully enjoying the conscious experience of what
you divinely Are and the fulfillment that accompanies it&mdash;the
wholeness that is inseparable from it. And you know, the invulnerability
which is part and parcel of it. You&rsquo;re here to enjoy the power,
the love and the sound mind that are the Gifts of God.

Not, that here&rsquo;s this little you &ldquo;out here,&rdquo; and God
is going to pass to you a gift of power, love, and a sound mind. No.
That which you would think of as separate from God &ldquo;out
here&rdquo; that could receive a Gift from God, is actually God
expressed&mdash;the Presence of God already. And therefore, love, power
and a sound mind are already established in you as You. And that&rsquo;s
what fear distracts you from the experience of. And that is what it is
your Birthright to take back and to experience and therefore to be free
of the domination of fear.

If you&rsquo;re feeling guilty, you&rsquo;re feeling fear. And if
you&rsquo;re feeling fear, somewhere you&rsquo;re feeling guilt. And
whenever you&rsquo;re feeling either one of them, you feel that
they&rsquo;re justified and therefore, you don&rsquo;t challenge them.
But, I&rsquo;m telling you, that right in the middle of gripping
fear&mdash;or ever so mild fear&mdash;you need to ask, &ldquo;Did God
give this to me? Well, that&rsquo;s not one of the Gifts of God. So
obviously not.&rdquo;

If God didn&rsquo;t give it to you, then it&rsquo;s not real. It&rsquo;s
a false belief. It&rsquo;s an imagination that you have clothed and
given your honor and commitment to even though it&rsquo;s total
foolishness. And you know, every one of you, that you have a means of
becoming calm in the midst of fear.

You know, you have a child and the child wakes up with a nightmare, full
of fear and you know that what&rsquo;s called for is for that child to
be calm&mdash;to become calm. And so you do everything you can to
nurture a calming attitude in her or him. And you know that
there&rsquo;s no attention that needs to be given to what seems to have
been really scary because there was nothing really scary.

Well, when you&rsquo;re engulfed with fear, somehow you need to remind
yourself or allow yourself to be reminded that it&rsquo;s not really
something scary because if it didn&rsquo;t come from God, it&rsquo;s an
imagination.

Then once you&rsquo;ve remembered that, even if you&rsquo;re still
caught in the grip of it, you can do a simple thing: You can sit down,
even though every fiber of your body says, &ldquo;You&rsquo;ve got to
deal with this. You can&rsquo;t ignore this. It&rsquo;s too
serious!&rdquo; Bullshit. You need to sit down and if nothing else begin
to breathe deeply and slowly and give your attention to your breath, or
you need to breathe slowly and meditate.

If you do that, the fear and the gripping of it will leave and you will
find yourself experiencing peace. And it will be very confusing when
that first happens because it won&rsquo;t make any sense for you to be
experiencing this real peace when something so frightening still
hasn&rsquo;t been resolved. But the wonderful learning in it is, that
when you let yourself have this experience of peace by choosing for it
through meditating or giving your attention to your gentle &ldquo;inhale
and exhale,&rdquo; you realize that you&rsquo;re in a frame of mind in
which you can see clearly and in which you can discern how to handle the
problem, not because you&rsquo;re driven by fear, but because in the
peace of your native intelligence, truth is clear&hellip; answers are
clear.

In that peace, the power, love and soundness of mind that God is placing
in you by being You at every moment, reveals to you that never again do
you have to succumb to overwhelming fear. And that if you are willing to
abandon it as the motivational force of your being, you will find a
motivational force already there that you didn&rsquo;t have to create, a
motivational force of Love underpinned by a sound mind that has or is
the presence of Mind that is Power because it has integrity, because it
is a unity.

This is your Birthright to be experiencing. And as you insist upon
becoming still in the midst of fear and having this experience, you will
find yourself behaving differently. And you will also find yourself
grasping what is going on in your Brother or Sister when he or she is
bound by fear&mdash;caught in it, governed by it&mdash;and missing the
experience of the natural intelligence of their Being, which in the
midst of peace can provide the answer that the motivational force of
fear seems to be pushing them toward.

You think that this great fear is a natural resource for you to gain
safety and without it you won&rsquo;t be able to gain safety or
intelligence. But intelligence is the natural avenue for arriving at
intelligence&mdash;for arriving at an intelligent experience. And doing
this and being it is your function and it&rsquo;s your function to be
practicing relative to your Brothers and Sisters. It&rsquo;s your
function to find a way to put your Brothers and Sisters at peace by
uncovering the Gifts of God: The Gift of Power, of Love and of a sound
mind.

So, it&rsquo;s not going to be a head-trip. It&rsquo;s not going to be
nicey-nice thoughts to make you feel happy when things aren&rsquo;t
good. It&rsquo;s going to be something which you assert. I can&rsquo;t
put it any more clearly than that. When it comes to abandoning the fear
that engulfs you, it&rsquo;s going to require you to assert yourself and
choose for your peace, choose for stopping the rampant run of fear, and
breathe. Just remember to breathe&mdash;something so simple&mdash;and
give your attention to that. But it&rsquo;s going to take some vigorous
intent to choose to do that when you&rsquo;re engulfed by fear.
That&rsquo;s okay! Let there be vigorous intent. And do it so that you
move into your peace. Because in your peace you will see the answer.

And you want to know something? When you&rsquo;re engulfed in fear,
you&rsquo;re engulfed in fear because you believe at the bottom line
there is no answer&mdash;at least not for you. And it&rsquo;s simply not
true. But the answer won&rsquo;t register with you until you&rsquo;ve
chosen for your peace.

And then, when you&rsquo;ve learned this, it&rsquo;s your obligation and
task to help your Brother and Sister learn the same thing for
themselves. And if they&rsquo;re afraid of you, you find a way to put
them at peace. And you engage in whatever vigor it takes, whatever
vigorous involvement it takes or whatever calm, gentle persistent
reassurance it might take.

&ldquo;Oh, well, they&rsquo;re not worth it. Why should I have to do
that?&rdquo;

Because it&rsquo;s your function! Because it&rsquo;s Who and what you
really Are. And in order for you to give that to your fellowman
you&rsquo;re going to have to be willing to give it to
yourself&mdash;and what a wonderful thing. How practical it is. How
simply intelligent it would be to give it to yourself. You see? How
humane it would be. How forgiving it would be.

If the fear isn&rsquo;t real&mdash;and here&rsquo;s the
clincher&mdash;the guilt isn&rsquo;t real. Remember, fear and guilt go
together. And why do they seem to be present? Because you&rsquo;ve
unplugged yourself from your Source. And when you think you have
unplugged yourself from your Source, you feel like you&rsquo;re
vulnerable and you also know that you feel vulnerable because of not
only an unwise choice but a fallacious choice&mdash;a choice to believe
that you&rsquo;ve accomplished something that you can&rsquo;t have
accomplished.

So you feel guilty and you feel fearful, or you feel fearful and you
feel guilty. If in the midst of fear you can meditate&mdash;become
still&mdash;and find the fear that seems so real and justifiable
disappearing, you can likewise find that the guilt accompanying it also
disappeared, which is one of the reasons that you can say you&rsquo;re
experiencing what a sound mind is. Because a sound mind is not
fragmented by fear, it&rsquo;s not torn apart, disturbed, there&rsquo;s
no chaos in it. And a sound mind is what the Father gave you. Fear is
not. Guilt is not.

Now, I&rsquo;m speaking gently. I&rsquo;m not speaking boldly. I&rsquo;m
not cramming it down your throat. I&rsquo;m not jacking you up to get
you motivated. And the reason is, that I want you to grasp the fact that
what&rsquo;s intelligent is just what you should spontaneously be
engaging in. What is Loving is what you should just be embodying, just
because it allows you to find the Gifts of God, which are really the
Presence of God in you, to show up. And this is a perfectly intelligent
and perfectly sane thing to do. Now, I said it&rsquo;s going to take
vigorous intent on your part&mdash;persistence.

You know what? I could give you a real pep talk. And I could get you
revved up so you&rsquo;d be willing to do it. But it wouldn&rsquo;t
last. I&rsquo;m saying it to you softly, gently, encouragingly and
matter-of-factly, so that it might be easier for you to just shift in
your awareness&mdash;a genuine shift, a simple shift that it would be
difficult to slip back from.

You need to know the truth about you and that the simple truth about you
is so normal, so everyday, that it is accessible to you. Whether
it&rsquo;s someone in your office, whether it&rsquo;s someone in a
neighborhood of other nationalities, whether it&rsquo;s a people in a
different country, if they are afraid of you, you have a job. And your
job is to be the Presence of That which causes them to relax because
you&rsquo;ve shared with them a genuineness and a loving kindness and a
soundness of mind and a presence of power which really means, a
comfortable sense of invulnerability so that it&rsquo;s clear to them
that there&rsquo;s nothing for them to fear. And then if they have
really been afraid and it&rsquo;s not easy for them to let it go
quickly, you be willing to persist until the relationship is healed.

There&rsquo;s need for healing in the world, in families, in
communities. And it will come about by valuing the Gifts of God, by
realizing that if God has not given you the spirit of fear or the spirit
of guilt, but of Power and of Love and of a sound mind, that you can be
a valuable agent for change that will, for lack of better words,
transform the world.

And you know what? You don&rsquo;t have to be entirely altruistic. You
don&rsquo;t have to just go out and do this for someone else. It is not
your Birthright to be experiencing fear. It&rsquo;s not your Birthright
to be experiencing guilt. And so you take the time to do what it takes
to lift yourself out of it, to watch the seeming reality of fear and
guilt evaporate&mdash;just dissolve&mdash;and leave you with a clear
mind, a sound mind, one in which Love is easy.

You deserve that. And until you let it in for yourself you won&rsquo;t
have it to give away. You won&rsquo;t have it to share and thereby keep.

It&rsquo;s important. It&rsquo;s important for fear to stop dominating
the world scene. And it&rsquo;s time for its dominance to evaporate, not
because there&rsquo;s force frightening people with more fear into not
acting like they&rsquo;re afraid&mdash;not as an exertion of
power&mdash;but as a genuine embrace of Love.

It is important.

I look forward to being with you next week.

[^1]: Bible ~ 1 John:4:18
[^2]: 2 Timothy 1:7

