---
title: Oct 9, 2010
ref: "Discussion"
---

Tonight we will not continue in the Book. We will do that next week.

Tonight I need to talk about something that Paul needs to hear and be
reminded of. And because it&rsquo;s something that will benefit
everyone, I am going to do it in this setting.

What&rsquo;s the best way of breaking…undoing…nullifying the special
relationship?

It&rsquo;s very simple, really. It&rsquo;s something Paul has done ever
since the first night he sat down to try to get in touch with his
Guide&mdash;if indeed he had one. And before every Gathering he reminds
himself of it, of his intent, of the intent of the time that will follow
(and I&rsquo;ve shared it before).

He says, &ldquo;I allow only &hellip;&rdquo; and that word
&ldquo;only&rdquo; is the key word: &ldquo;I allow only for that which
expresses the Christ Consciousness, and only that which is in harmony
with the purpose of being the Father&rsquo;s Will.&rdquo; In other
words, &ldquo;Thy Will, not mine be done. Let the reign of divine truth,
life and love be established in me and rule out of me all self-will. And
may Thy Word enrich the affections of all mankind and govern
them.&rdquo;

And to Paul that last sentence means, &ldquo;&hellip; and govern them as
well.&rdquo; Because after all, the point is that in the process of
saying, &ldquo;Thy Will not mine be done,&rdquo; one put&rsquo;s oneself
in a position of having his affections enriched. It&rsquo;s a wonderful
thing. It&rsquo;s a wonderful thing to know will happen: You will be
changed. Your affections, your loving relationships will be enriched.
The way you behave toward your fellowman will be enriched and a
blessing.

Now as it happens, this past week has been especially rugged for Paul,
because&mdash;in fact, it&rsquo;s been more than just the last
week&mdash;in the process of preparing the new residence for the
activities of the Foundation, there have been many meetings with
tradesmen, bids made, ideas expressed and more involvement, I&rsquo;m
going to say, than usual in ego dynamics. And Paul has found himself
manipulated, let&rsquo;s say, encouraged to see another&rsquo;s
perspective. When what was needed was for the other one to ask,
&ldquo;What do you need from us?&rdquo; Because of course, the needs are
unusual when it comes to the work that is being done.

In the process, Paul has found individuals withdrawing their willingness
to participate if Paul was not willing to yield to what they thought.

Now, what did this do? It invited Paul into special relationships, where
Paul began to feel it necessary to not be totally honest in order to
finesse fulfillment of the needs from these others &hellip; from them.
He began to cater and become very uncomfortable within himself. And it
wasn&rsquo;t until just an hour or so before the meeting tonight that he
was reminded of this statement: &ldquo;I allow only for that which
expresses the Christ Consciousness &hellip;&rdquo; You see? That
would&rsquo;ve been the answer, the simple answer at any point during
the last few weeks when others were trying to be manipulative or
controlling or withdraw their support if they didn&rsquo;t get
cooperation for their perspective.

Now I, of course, have been talking at some length for many, many weeks
now to everyone about the need to do the two-step, the need to hesitate
before acting and ask: &ldquo;Father, what is the truth here? Father,
what needs to be known? That is very much the equivalent of saying,
&ldquo;Father, I allow only&hellip; only for that which expresses the
Christ Consciousness &hellip;&rdquo;

Now what does that say? That is saying, I choose to be in alignment only
with the Christ &hellip; only with the Christed Perspective&mdash;not
the perspective of the tradesmen, not the perspective of those who would
manipulate and control, but within: &ldquo;Father, I allow only for that
which expresses the Christ Consciousness and only that which is in
harmony with the purpose of being the Father&rsquo;s Will.&rdquo; You
see? Not Paul&rsquo;s will, not a tradesman&rsquo;s will, not anyone
else&rsquo;s will. The Father&rsquo;s Will.

Now, you know, when you&rsquo;re in a position of being able to do
things, one can do things that address needs and one can also be tempted
into doing things that fulfill wants.

&ldquo;Wow! I have a chance to have it my way.&rdquo;

And that&rsquo;s another distraction from &ldquo;I allow only for that
which expresses the Christ Consciousness and only that which is in
harmony with the purpose of being the Father&rsquo;s Will.

Now, think about it &hellip; and this is what Paul needs to think about,
and this is the direction I&rsquo;m pointing his nose in. Why
wouldn&rsquo;t you choose to do only that which expressed the Christ
Consciousness and only that which is in harmony with the purpose of
being the Father&rsquo;s Will?

Obviously, if you&rsquo;re doing anything else, you&rsquo;re doing
something other than the Father&rsquo;s Will and you&rsquo;re out of
alignment&mdash;you&rsquo;re out of relationship with your Father. And
the whole orphan experience begins. The special relationship takes over.
And no matter how skillfully the special relationship is practiced, the
experience is hell. It simply isn&rsquo;t the inevitable harmonious
experience of the Father&rsquo;s Will finding expression right where you
are.

And then what happens? Well, with Paul, he gets frustrated and then gets
upset and then he feels fully justified in being angry and expressing
the anger. He becomes, believe it or not, mean-spirited.

It&rsquo;s not his nature. It&rsquo;s not anyone&rsquo;s nature. But it
is what one begins to embody when one is disconnected from his Source
and feels the awkwardness and discomfort of experiencing something other
than his Birthright, which, although he may have forgotten, he knows is
there, intact and it awaits him. And not having it burns him up.
[chuckles] Right?

That frame of mind compels one to consciously engage in not wanting to
express only the Christ Consciousness and not wanting to express only
that which is in harmony with the purpose of Being or the Father&rsquo;s
Will.

So you see, although our conversation last week about special
relationships seemed complex and complicated, it&rsquo;s really quite
simple. And the simplicity of it is illuminated in my request of Paul
and my request of each of you, that no matter what circumstance
you&rsquo;re in, no matter what is happening, you insist before
responding on saying, &ldquo;I allow only for that which expresses the
Christ Consciousness and only that which is in harmony with the purpose
of being the Father&rsquo;s Will.&rdquo;

If anything other than that is an experience of hell in one form or
another, then it behooves you to do this one simple step&mdash;this one
simple thing&mdash;turn your will over to the Father&rsquo;s. Let your
will be the Father&rsquo;s Will finding expression, because, at the
bottom line, that is what your will is. It&rsquo;s not here for you to
experience and express in an independent, autonomous, frivolous, free
way. It&rsquo;s here for you to voluntarily align it with the
Father&rsquo;s Will&mdash;which, at the bottom line, is what it already
is&mdash;so that the dissonance of freewill vanishes from your
experience.

And you know what? You can&rsquo;t afford to, any more than Paul can
afford to, wait until &ldquo;pie-in-the-sky,&rdquo;
&ldquo;after-you-die&rdquo; to do it. You&rsquo;ve got to do it today,
here, now, in the political climate, in the financial climate, in the
social climate, in the religious climate &hellip; whatever, in the
business climate when you&rsquo;re working with tradesmen, [snaps
fingers] stop, hesitate, &ldquo;I allow only for that which expresses
the Christ Consciousness because I want to experience the Heaven of
being rather than the hell of being.&rdquo; You see?

Now, those words may not have as much meaning for you at the moment as
they do and have had for Paul, because those words always have meant
that he was setting aside whatever his current best judgments were for
something he would prefer to have instead, something greater than what
he was experiencing, something that would contribute to his Awakening
rather than continuing to contribute to a hellish dream, an
uncomfortable dream, an unfulfilling dream.

And so when he said, &ldquo;I allow only for this or that,&rdquo; he
knew he was disallowing anything unlike it, he was disallowing anything
he already knew, because it hadn&rsquo;t Awakened him yet. And he gave
preference and favor to whatever it was that he might hear.

And that&rsquo;s the attitude that you need to have when you&rsquo;re
working with your fellowman who&rsquo;s also, let us say, coming from
ego places, and where you want to be the presence and the evidence of
Love. You want to be that place where fulfillment occurs rather than an
ongoing tension that somehow the two of you manage to keep at a low
enough level that you&rsquo;re not suffering too much.

I remind you, and I&rsquo;m reminding Paul, that the call is to remember
to do this all the time. Not just when you want to have a quiet private
time with your Father or with the Holy Spirit or with me, but all day
long in the middle of all activities. After all, why not have &ldquo;the
more of what Reality is,&rdquo; why not have the better answers in the
middle of any transaction you&rsquo;re engaged in or any negotiation
you&rsquo;re engaged in, any relationship you&rsquo;re engaged in. Why
not? &ldquo;Oh, it&rsquo;s too demanding. Oh, I shouldn&rsquo;t have to
give that much attention to it. I need time for relief. I need time for
rest. I need time off from that kind of devotion.&rdquo; No you
don&rsquo;t! You need time off from the hell that comes of special
relationships. You need time off from negotiations that turn sour. You
see? You need time off from suffering. And this is the way.

And Paul is hearing what I&rsquo;m saying&mdash;of course. And it is
registering with him. There is still some tendency to justify, not
outrage, but certainly distress in the sense of a desire to get even or
bring things to equilibrium &hellip; you know&hellip; an &ldquo;eye for
an eye&rdquo; and a tooth for a tooth. But that&rsquo;s not healing.
That&rsquo;s not allowing only for that which is expressing the Christ
Consciousness.

And so, he&rsquo;s going to have to let go of that and everyone else is
going to have to let go of it. It&rsquo;s not a viable means of
promoting transformation that evidences healing, that evidences renewal
of one&rsquo;s divine Birthright. Heck, it doesn&rsquo;t allow for the
re-emergence of joy and peace. So just how important is it?

One might say, &ldquo;Oh, I shouldn&rsquo;t have to work that hard, that
consistently to be the Son of God.&rdquo; Well, maybe you don&rsquo;t
have to work that hard, that consistently, but you might have to let
yourself be the Son of God that you Are uninterruptedly, just because
that&rsquo;s where the full experience of being the Son or Daughter of
God lies. You might just do it because that&rsquo;s where your good is.
But like Paul, everyone has to be willing to soberly look at a situation
and determine whether there&rsquo;s any justification for withholding
the activity that corrects a problem, or heals the situation, or
promotes the holy instant&mdash;in which one&rsquo;s affections are
enriched and which promote the enrichment of the affections of all
mankind.

That&rsquo;s the simplicity, profound though it is, of what I needed to
share tonight with Paul and with everyone else. Be willing to be with
it. Be willing to be changed by it. Be willing to let that word
&ldquo;only&rdquo; apply to every moment of your daily experience.

I will leave it at that for tonight.

I love you all. And I look forward to being with you next week.

