---
title: Oct 16, 2010
ref: "T16.5 Specialness and Guilt"
alink: "/acim/text/16/chap1605/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

You know, you might say that we&rsquo;re running this discussion about
the holy instant and the two-step and special relationships into the
ground, unnecessarily overdoing it all. But I promise you we&rsquo;re
not. It&rsquo;s extremely important to understand exactly what the
special relationship is about because it&rsquo;s not all that
constructive.

So, what&rsquo;s the purpose of a special relationship?

And for clarification, one might think that a special relationship is
one that stands out from all others. And in all likelihood, the most
special, special relationship is the one, one has with a wife or a
husband or a partner&mdash;one in which trust and intimacy and love are
allowed broader and deeper expression.

And so, in many cases, those who are in primary relationships glom onto
the idea of a special relationship: &ldquo;Oh, let&rsquo;s make the most
of our special relationship&mdash;let&rsquo;s take our special
relationship and turn it into a holy relationship,&rdquo; thinking that
it might be easier because the idea is that the special relationship is
one that is fundamentally trusting and loving. You see?

But no. A special relationship is a relationship one has with anyone or
anything when he is unconscious of who he truly Is, or who she truly Is.
That&rsquo;s what constitutes a special relationship.

And so it&rsquo;s a relationship with someone you&rsquo;re having an
argument with. It&rsquo;s a relationship you&rsquo;re having with
someone you don&rsquo;t like or someone who doesn&rsquo;t like you.
It&rsquo;s a relationship you&rsquo;re having with someone in a match of
some sort, a tennis match or a football game or some contest of some
sort. All without having any conscious awareness of who you truly
&hellip; and I&rsquo;m going to say, divinely Are &hellip; for
clarification&mdash;for context, for intent. You see?

So what is the purpose of a special relationship?

Well, in the misunderstanding of the value of a special relationship,
one might think that it is to improve the relationship&mdash;that
it&rsquo;s to become more and more skillful at having an excellent
relationship. But no. And this is why it is so important to understand
the truth about special relationships. A special relationship has always
one purpose: And that purpose is to elevate the one practicing it to a
position of greater excellence&mdash;of greater autonomous excellence.

The purpose of all special relationships, even though they are
relationships and not something one engages in all by oneself in a cave
out in the middle of nowhere, the purpose is to arrive at a point of
such perfect independence, such perfect independence with great
excellence, that one can demonstrate once and for all that he or she is
a valuable valid presence&mdash;an eternal presence in it&rsquo;s own
right. It isn&rsquo;t relevant to someone else&mdash;anyone else at all.
It&rsquo;s entirely selfish. It&rsquo;s entirely self-serving.

And so the skill that one acquires and develops and brings into play in
relationships with others, where others are working diligently also to
improve the relationships while still not knowing who they divinely Are,
are always for independent selfish reasons with absolute demonstrable
autonomy being the ultimate goal.

So, selfishness from one side is brought to selfishness from the other
side and selfishness interacts and selfishness hurts &hellip; but can
manage to be expressed in ways, well, what is the saying,
&ldquo;I&rsquo;ll stroke your back if you stroke mine?&rdquo;. . mutual
agreements of how to behave, still all for selfish reasons, but in ways
that allow a little bit of pleasure to be gotten, which allows one to
come to the conclusion that a pleasurable thing is happening&mdash;and
indeed, this is a good relationship. And indeed, the better each partner
gets at stroking the other&rsquo;s back, the happier everyone is. And it
seems to be proof that special relationships really are special and
really are valid and really are not selfish.

Now, I&rsquo;m going to be very clear here: When each of you, when any
of us got a divorce from the Father and said, &ldquo;Father, I would
rather see it my way,&rdquo; one put himself in a position of an
experience of invalidity&mdash;pretending to be something he or she
could not be. And out of that emptiness everything else developed.

And everybody, out of their emptiness, comes to each other and strokes
each others&rsquo; back for a little bit of pleasure, for the sole
purpose of overcoming the emptiness without doing the only thing that
will fill the emptiness once again, which is remembering who you Are and
choosing to be that consciously and abandoning the
charade&mdash;abandoning the act, abandoning the styles of
relating&mdash;that all, in one way or another, seem to identify forward
movement on the path of becoming absolutely, genuinely autonomous.

It&rsquo;s unwholesome because it&rsquo;s unholy. It&rsquo;s unwhole.
Nothing constructive can emerge from emptiness, from lack of wholeness.

So, always, the purpose of a special relationship is to improve
one&rsquo;s self. Improve one&rsquo;s self without interruption, even if
it takes several lifetimes to arrive at this independence&mdash;this
freedom to be who one is without knowing who one Is.

And so, going into the Book:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The &ldquo;better&rdquo; self the ego seeks is always one that is MORE
special.
</div>

What does that mean? MORE special means more different from what the
Father is Being right there where he is or where she is. More different,
less like God, less like all that is valuable, all that is Meaningful.
And whoever seems to possess a special self is loved for what can be
taken from him.

That might seem hard to understand. But you know what? Egos are like
chameleons. And so when they come next to or near another ego, they will
sense into that other ego, they will sense into whether there&rsquo;s
betterness there, whether there&rsquo;s something more desirable there,
including maybe that the other ego is somewhat attracted&mdash;whether
sexually, whether personally, whether financially, whatever. And if
there is a rapport, the one approaching will sense into it and begin to
modify his or her behavior&mdash;modify who he or she is, if it looks
like there might be gain from the other person&rsquo;s perception of
him.

&ldquo;If the other one likes me, then I will stop being me. I will stop
being the me I was trying to be that I&rsquo;ve been working on for so
long. I will modify it here and there to wheedle out of this person a
little bit more appreciation.&rdquo; You see? &ldquo;And so I will steal
this identity&mdash;that this other one sees in me&mdash;from that one,
and I will play on it and I will monopolize it and I will make it work
for me. And if I&rsquo;m smart, I&rsquo;ll make it work for the other
one too, so that that other one will continue to like me even
more.&rdquo;

And so, one being a chameleon easily gives up the colors that were being
displayed before.

And so you take from another their goodwill&mdash;their good intent,
their good perception&mdash;whether it&rsquo;s true or not. And you take
it from them and incorporate and use it with still, for what purpose? To
become better, to somehow arrive at this place of excellence that will
constitute true real autonomy and you&rsquo;ll have that one there to
witness for you and to be there to prove and demonstrate the truth of
your independence. You see?

Now&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Where both partners see this special self in each other, the ego sees
&ldquo;a union made in Heaven.&rdquo;

&hellip; &ldquo;a union made in Heaven.&rdquo;
</div>

Yes! Boy, true love&mdash;instantaneous, felt by both. Or even if it
grew, if it&rsquo;s still perfect enough, it&rsquo;s worth more than
anything.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For neither one will recognize that he has asked for hell&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; how has he asked for hell? He&mdash;both partners whoever they
are&mdash;will have asked for hell by intending to engage in a
relationship still without knowing who they truly Are. And that
constitutes bringing emptiness to emptiness, bringing selfishness to
selfishness, bringing nothing to nothing. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For neither one will recognize that he has asked for hell, and so he
will not interfere with the ego&rsquo;s illusion of Heaven, which it
offered him to INTERFERE with Heaven.
</div>

You see, you think that special relationships are there for really good
reasons&mdash;different kind of reasons: emotional reasons, mental
reasons, physical reasons. But no, even though that seems to be true
and it gives everyone something to tackle and work on, it has only one
purpose and that is to interfere with Heaven. The purpose is to
interfere with your remembering who you Are&mdash;your remembering that
you didn&rsquo;t have to get that divorce from your Father, you
didn&rsquo;t have to get that relationship annulled with your Father.
You see? It interferes with that. It&rsquo;s simple.

Everyone thinks that there are many good reasons for special
relationships, even if they&rsquo;re difficult ones, even if
they&rsquo;re unpleasant because they &ldquo;make you grow&rdquo; and
they strengthen you, and &hellip; blah &hellip; blah &hellip; bullshit!

And so it&rsquo;s easy to get caught up in working on all these many
points when there&rsquo;s only one point totally unrelated to improving
one&rsquo;s self. And that point is: That the purpose of the special
relationship is to keep you unconscious of who you truly Are, which
would resolve the problem, which would cause you to Wake up.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet if all illusions are of fear, and they CAN be of nothing else, the
illusion of Heaven &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; &ldquo;Oh, it&rsquo;s a relationship made in Heaven&rdquo;
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the illusion of Heaven is nothing more than an "attractive"
form of fear, in which the guilt is buried deep, and rises in the form
of "love."
</div>

&ldquo;Hmm &hellip; what guilt?&rdquo;

Well, the guilt that automatically came into play when you decided to do
things on your own, the guilt and fear&mdash;the team&mdash;that came
into play when you said, &ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;m going to look at it on
my own. I&rsquo;m not going to look at it with You anymore. I am not
going to co-create with You by being that conscious awareness which is
devoted to the clear experience of what You Are creating so that I might
join you in acknowledgement of it as Your Creation. And as
acknowledgment of my function which is to recognize Your handiwork,
Father.&rdquo;

When you abandoned that, guilt and fear came into play. You don&rsquo;t
like the guilt so you push it out of sight. But it rises in the form of
love in a special relationship.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The appeal of hell &hellip;
</div>

I know these are strong words &hellip; and you probably think you can
Wake up without taking a look at them in this strong form, but I promise
you if you will take a look at them, it will become evermore clear to
you how much you want to abandon it&mdash;it will make it evermore easy
to abandon them.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The appeal of hell lies only in the terrible attraction of guilt, which
the ego holds out to those who place their faith in littleness.
</div>

&hellip; &ldquo;But Father, I&rsquo;d rather abandon the infinite view
for my view, for my way of looking at things.&rdquo; You see?

What&rsquo;s the terrible attraction of guilt?

You would say, &ldquo;Guilt doesn&rsquo;t attract me!&rdquo; But it
does. It attracts everybody, because if one has forgotten who they Are,
the experience of guilt is perceived to be appropriate, normal,
essential motivation for self-improvement. You see? The guilt is there,
the experience of guilt is your Sanity saying, &ldquo;If you want to see
things by yourself, you&rsquo;re attempting to do something you are
incapable of doing. Stop doing it! You cannot be comfortable attempting
to do something you cannot do. And your insistence at attempting to do
the impossible will be felt as discomfort&mdash;as guilt.

But the ego takes that&mdash;this independent vantage point, so
called&mdash;takes that and says, &ldquo;I know I am something
meaningful. I know I am something valuable. I know I do not exist for no
reason, and therefore, I am going to use this discomfort for the purpose
of uncovering my worth through my own independent acts, and uncovering
my worth through the subtle manipulation of my world, and of my Brothers
and Sisters, for my benefit. And of course, the best way I can earn the
respect and support of others is to do enough to benefit them, that
it&rsquo;s worth it to them (without their knowing who they Are) to help
me, who doesn&rsquo;t know who I am.&rdquo; You see?

So there&rsquo;s an attraction of guilt because it has become the
motivation for self-improvement. It is therefore, that, which if used
properly, will allow you to arrive at a point of self-respect&mdash;to
arrive at a point of excellence that will deserve the respect of others.
And so you are hooked on guilt. It is attractive to you.

You see &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The appeal of hell &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; which means the appeal of the experience of not knowing who you
Are because you&rsquo;ve said, &ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;d rather do it my
way &hellip;&rdquo; The appeal of that experience &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; lies only in the terrible attraction of guilt which the ego
holds out to those who place their faith in littleness.
</div>

You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The conviction of littleness lies in EVERY special relationship, for
only the deprived could VALUE specialness.
</div>

What is specialness?

It&rsquo;s whatever you seem to create that makes you, what . . ?
Different from everyone else? Not really &hellip; different from the
Father, so that you in your own right, without borrowing worth and value
and meaning from something outside of yourself, can claim
self-authorized, autonomous existence&mdash;being.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The demand for specialness, and the perception of the giving of
specialness as an act of love, would make love HATEFUL.
</div>

You see? Why hateful? Because it&rsquo;s destructive. Why is it
destructive? Because it keeps who you divinely Are utterly obscured from
you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The demand for specialness, and the perception of the giving of
specialness as an act of love, would make love HATEFUL. And the real
purpose of the special relationship, in strict accordance with the
ego&rsquo;s goals&hellip;
</div>

You see? What are the ego&rsquo;s goals? To become better and better and
better and better, to the point where you can become a puppet without
strings and sing and dance at your own will, without being in any kind
of connected relationship. Those are the ego&rsquo;s goals.

And if you&rsquo;re not doing the two-step, if you&rsquo;re not
remembering to say, &ldquo;Father, what is the truth here?&rdquo; before
you respond to the situation, you are keeping yourself in
limbo&mdash;you are keeping yourself in ignorance.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the real purpose of the special relationship, in strict
accordance with the ego&rsquo;s goals, is to destroy reality and
substitute illusion.
</div>

&ldquo;Whew! &hellip; man, I didn&rsquo;t know I was doing that,&rdquo;
you say. &ldquo;I had no idea I could have been doing that. That sounds
pretty awful. It sounds like there must be quite a penalty for
that&mdash;an axe that&rsquo;s going to fall.&rdquo; No, the axe has
already fallen. And the only axe that can fall is, that when you are
choosing to ignore what you Are, you will experience being unconscious
of what you Are. And the moment you stop choosing to be unconscious of
what you Are, the axe that fell will no longer present itself as an
actuality. And there won&rsquo;t be any suffering or penalty, because
you&rsquo;ll see the truth&mdash;you&rsquo;ll know the truth&mdash;and
you won&rsquo;t try to do the impossible or be what you cannot be.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For the ego is ITSELF an illusion, and only illusions CAN be the
witnesses to its "reality."

For the ego is ITSELF an illusion, and only illusions CAN be
the witnesses to its "reality."
</div>

I said last week, that the ego and the Holy Spirit are two different
identifiers of one thing: You. The ego is you unconscious of who you
Are. And the Holy Spirit is you conscious of who and what you
Are&mdash;recognizing your inseparable relationship with God, and your
willingness, your love for joining with your Father, with That which has
given you life &hellip; is giving you life and will forever be the life
of You, flawlessly.

Everyone in the orphanage, all of you who are unconscious of who you Are
and who have developed the orphanage protocols, all of you are Sons and
Daughters of God who are not orphans, who are in the middle of the
Kingdom of Heaven believing that they&rsquo;re in an orphanage, who are
joined with each other and with Their Father so infinitely and
completely that the fantasy they are engaged in is having no real effect
at all, because what Is can&rsquo;t be changed, what is true can&rsquo;t
be undone. And so it hasn&rsquo;t been undone, but you&rsquo;re
believing that it has and you are believing that your beliefs are
ultimate truths.

Now, the worst is yet to come.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you perceived the special relationship as a triumph over God, .
</div>

Um-m &hellip; that is worse isn&rsquo;t it?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; would you WANT it?
</div>

See, it isn&rsquo;t just about triumphing over your Brother,
or besting your Brother while convincing him that he&rsquo;s gotten some
good out of it. It isn&rsquo;t just about countries getting along better
with other countries, or groups with other groups. No! It&rsquo;s about
triumphing over God! You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you perceived the special relationship as a triumph over God, would
you WANT it?
</div>

No, you hadn&rsquo;t thought about it that way. And it&rsquo;s sort of
hard to believe that it is. And it&rsquo;s sort of hard to imagine how
one could shift from the orphan mindset&mdash;the current mindset. And
it&rsquo;s sort of hard to believe that it might actually be valuable.
That&rsquo;s hard to believe.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you perceived the special relationship as a triumph over God, would
you WANT it? Let us not think of its fearful nature, nor of the guilt it
must entail, nor of the sadness and the loneliness.
</div>

You see? Let&rsquo;s not think of all these little bits and pieces: Its
fearful nature, the guilt it must entail, the sadness and the loneliness
&hellip; you know. Oh-h-h, the ego just loves to get a hold of little
details like that. Why? So that it can get rid of them, so it can
improve the situation, so that you&rsquo;re not experiencing it anymore,
and in the process of doing that, demonstrating your betterness. You
see?

Let us not do what gets you entrapped in fixing up something that
doesn&rsquo;t even exist and something that you can gain your freedom
from: By abandoning the special relationship by engaging in the
two-step&mdash;by engaging in the holy instant.

Again, this is important. Let us not think of all the little details:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Let us not think of its fearful nature, nor of the guilt it must entail,
nor of the sadness and the loneliness. For these are only attributes of
the whole religion of the separation&hellip;
</div>

You see? Those are little attributes of something not only larger but
less complicated instead of a bunch of little things to take care of or
improve.

There&rsquo;s one thing to be done. And that is, the holy instant.
Stopping dead in your tracks (live in your tracks) and saying,
&ldquo;Father,&rdquo; &hellip;you see &hellip; breaking the isolation
&hellip; &ldquo;Father, what is the truth here? What do I need to know
in order to experience Your perspective&mdash;the truth?&rdquo; You see?

So, these things &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; are only attributes of the whole religion of the separation,
and of the total context in which it is &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; thought to occur.
</div>

It&rsquo;s not even actually occurring. It&rsquo;s &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the total context in which it is thought to occur&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; imagined to occur. So don&rsquo;t go down that road. It&rsquo;s
just full of sticky fly-paper, here and there and all the little
details&mdash;all the little details that the ego can get busy to fix
up. And in getting busy to fix up, keeps keeping the truth about you
obscured from you and keeping the truth about your Brother obscured from
your Brother. You see?

Now, here&rsquo;s the ugly truth:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The central theme in its litany to sacrifice is that God must die so YOU
can live.
</div>

You know, you can listen to those words and say &hellip; you can almost
laugh &hellip; &ldquo;What a ridiculous idea! I mean, anyone who
believes there is a God knows that God, God can&rsquo;t die, maybe the
Son of God can die, but God can&rsquo;t die.&rdquo; And so when it says:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The central theme in its litany to sacrifice is that God must die so YOU
can live.
</div>

You blow it off with a little laughter. Not you [chuckling] not you. But
here&rsquo;s the thing, it&rsquo;s simple: There&rsquo;s no penalty to
it because you&rsquo;ll only suffer from ignorance until the ignorance
is replaced with clarity of mind.

As long as you think you&rsquo;re just a mortal&mdash;something that
came from a sperm and an egg, a little bit of matter, a little bit of
protoplasm&mdash;as long as you think that and you live your life on
that basis, you never have to imagine that there&rsquo;s a God, you
never have to pay attention to a God and the more conscientiously you
would engage in improving yourself in your own right, you&rsquo;re
keeping God out of sight and out of mind &hellip; and dead.

You listen to me talk week after week. You watch Paul and you know that
he struggles with letting me respond to everything&mdash;in other words,
staying joined with me all the time. You hear me encourage you to
connect with the Holy Spirit&mdash;that which is nothing more than your
right Mind&mdash;and listening or listening to your Guide and staying
joined, joined in your Guide&rsquo;s perspective, which is really your
true perspective, you hear me say do that, do that, do that &hellip; and
you have reasons for not doing it, you have arguments against doing it
all the time, just as Paul does.

So this isn&rsquo;t as comical or irrelevant as you might think, when it
says:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The central theme in its litany to sacrifice is that God must die so YOU
can live.
</div>

You know, God must be out of the picture so you can manage to not have
to listen to God all the time. It&rsquo;s simple clarity. It&rsquo;s
simple simplicity.

Now obviously, if you&rsquo;re going to try to kill God by becoming a
dominant entity yourself, in your own right, you really are not going to
be able to do it or attempt to do it with comfort. Not because
there&rsquo;s retribution, not because God is a jealous or angry God,
but because God isn&rsquo;t going to stop being what He Is, and you
can&rsquo;t stop being what you Are. And so when you attempt to go
against what is the truth, nothing is going to drop a penalty upon you.
You&rsquo;re just going to experience the exhausting strain of
attempting to do something you can&rsquo;t do. That&rsquo;s all.

But as I&rsquo;ve said before, the strain, the distress, the pain, if
you will, the fear and so on, will be as great as that which
you&rsquo;re attempting to overcome that you can&rsquo;t overcome. The
harder you push against the Rock of Gibraltar, the more your fist or
your hands or your muscles are going to complain. Not because the Rock
of Gibraltar decided to blast you with a penalty, but because
you&rsquo;re using your self to attempt to do something you can&rsquo;t
do. And you&rsquo;re doing it with all your might. And all the might
you&rsquo;re bringing to it, you are experiencing as the discomfort of
the impossibility of what you&rsquo;re trying to do. Okay?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The central theme in its litany to sacrifice is that God must die so YOU
can live. And it is this theme which is acted out in the special
relationship.
</div>

Every special relationship: Your relationship with your cat, your
relationship with the bees, your relationship with your mate, your
relationship with your car, your relationship with anything. All
relationships are colored by whatever pigments you are introducing into
the mindset through which you&rsquo;re looking at everything. Simple.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Through the death of YOUR self, you think you can attack another
self&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you&rsquo;re like the chameleon: Through the death of the blue
and green chameleon, and the emergence of the blue, red and orange
chameleon, you caused the death of the first chameleon.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Through the death of YOUR self, you think you can attack another self,
and snatch it from the other to replace the self which you despise.
</div>

You see? You&rsquo;ll either go for the picture you have about what
another thinks of you or you will go after what that other one actually
does think about you and you will snatch it away and use it for your own
selfish purposes.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Through the death of YOUR self, you think you can attack another self,
and snatch it from the other to replace the self which you despise. And
you despise it because you do not think it offers the specialness which
you demand.
</div>

And of course, it doesn&rsquo;t. And that&rsquo;s why you are working,
working, working to create your more and more special,
specialness&mdash;your greater and greater difference from God. If you
were at peace with yourself, you wouldn&rsquo;t be trying to improve
yourself. And in fact, when you allow yourself into the holy instant
where God&rsquo;s laws prevail, and you experience the perfect harmony
of Being, you find no urge, no call for improving yourself, because
you&rsquo;re in a position, the awesome position, of being able to
observe all of Creation with the Father, which it&rsquo;s your
Birthright to be doing. In which nothing needs improvement but in which
all things are always made new.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you despise it &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the self you&rsquo;re currently experiencing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you despise it because you do not think it offers the
specialness which you demand. And HATING it, you have made it little and
unworthy because you are AFRAID of it.
</div>

You see? Now, mind you, you don&rsquo;t have two selves. You have two
different ways of identifying, or let&rsquo;s say, of being identified.
One is, as that which doesn&rsquo;t know who it is, or That which does.

You are the Son and Daughter of God. But if you don&rsquo;t know it,
then this Son or Daughter of God that you Are becomes something
you&rsquo;re unconscious of and there is the presence of fear and guilt
which prompts you then, to get off your ass and fix yourself up, improve
yourself, better yourself &hellip; you see? . . because it&rsquo;s not
good enough. And what is it that&rsquo;s not good enough? The Son of
God, right now, the Christ that you Are: Christ Mary, Christ John. You
see?

You know, sometimes you can go to a movie and the maker of the movie
will throw a scene in which, because you were engrossed with everything
else, you couldn&rsquo;t avoid seeing &hellip; like someone&rsquo;s head
being blown off&mdash;something that it really wasn&rsquo;t necessary
for you to have in your mind. And now it&rsquo;s there and it will
always be there.

Well, we&rsquo;re talking about hard things here. And you might say,
&ldquo;I didn&rsquo;t need to know all of that. You threw it in when I
was not expecting it and it was unfair.&rdquo; But what we&rsquo;re
talking about here, what&rsquo;s being uncovered here is something that
you do need to have in your mind, and it does need to be indelibly
present, because then it gives you, perhaps, the courage, but certainly
the impetus to try something new: To change the way you&rsquo;re being,
to abandon the special relationship. Because you&rsquo;re now beginning
to see just how far reaching and all encompassing, we&rsquo;ll say, the
negative aspects are of this thing that you&rsquo;ve been enjoying,
because it&rsquo;s made life challenging and
interesting&mdash;troublesome, yes. But you deserve more. It&rsquo;s
your Birthright to be experiencing something different. And so we have
to look at this.

And I thank you for bearing with me as it&rsquo;s uncovered. You might
well have skipped these pages when you read the book.

And I love you all. And I thank you for hanging in here with me, as
these things help uncover your capacity to be the Sons and Daughters of
God now. And I look forward to being with your next week.

[^1]: T16.5 Specialness and Guilt

