---
title: Nov 6, 2010
ref: "T16.5 Specialness and Guilt"
alink: "/acim/text/16/chap1605/"
---

So it says in the Bible, &ldquo;In the beginning was the Word and the
Word was with God and the Word was God.&rdquo;[^1]

That&rsquo;s the description of Being. That is the description of
Creation.

But I&rsquo;m going to play around a little bit and I&rsquo;m going to
say: &ldquo;But then a mist went up from the ground and a new
Creation&mdash;a second Creation took place.&rdquo; And that which
describes this second Creation goes like this: &lsquo;In the beginning
was the Word and the Word was with Man and the Word was Man.&rsquo;

This difference describes what could be called, &ldquo;The Fall.&rdquo;
It describes what we&rsquo;ve been discussing in terms of one getting a
divorce from his Father&mdash;one disowning his Source, his Father. And
doing it by means of a relationship with another holy Son of God&mdash;a
relationship in which these two holy Sons of God both decide that they
would like to be the deciders of what everything is and what everything
means.

Unlike God, however, they had to make decisions and definitions about
things that were already made [chuckles]. They were not in a position of
creating, we&rsquo;ll say, from scratch as God does.

And so, in their agreement as to mutual definitions and meanings of
everything, they created not a holy relationship, but a special
relationship which we&rsquo;ve been discussing at length but not quite
in the way I&rsquo;m discussing it right now.

&ldquo;In the beginning was the Word and the Word was with Man and the
Word was Man.&rdquo; And the land of Man was a land of orphanages
because all of its inhabitants were and are orphans&mdash;at least until
they decide to revoke the divorce they put in place. And of course,
we&rsquo;re talking about undoing the divorce, aren&rsquo;t we.
We&rsquo;re talking about practicing the holy instant. We&rsquo;re
talking about withdrawing from the mutual agreement with another Son or
Daughter of God and silencing the commitment that each of you
bring&mdash;the commitment each of you brings to the definitions and
meanings you have made up. And in the absence of that commitment,
reaching out to the Father, reaching out to the Holy Spirit, reaching
out to That which Knows and apparently is beyond you&hellip; and
enquiring to know what the truth is.

Now, there&rsquo;s something else about this that needs to be
illuminated. I have, in the past, shared at some length about the fact
that Being&mdash;existing&mdash;is all mental. That everything that is
being experienced is some aspect of Mind. It isn&rsquo;t just that it is
mental, it is that every aspect of Creation that you are experiencing
has its source in the infinite Mind which is God. And God&rsquo;s
capacity to be the bringing forth, be the impetus for the uncovering of
unlimited and infinite, vitally interesting things to be conscious of
which constitute life, which constitute absolutely everything that is
available to you to experience.

And you, as part of His Creation, have the function to fulfill, which
amounts to joining Him in acknowledgement of what He has created, in
acknowledgement of the Reality of absolutely everything you&rsquo;re
experiencing without in any way losing the conscious awareness that all
of it is Mind. And everything that is being experienced is an experience
of ideas. You are the experience of that Mind in motion in action that
is God.

You&rsquo;re not God, but you are the experience of that Mind which God
is in action and you&rsquo;re function is to confirm it as what It is.

In this experience, you are absolutely infinite. You are not
encapsulated or confined in any way to any thing. You are infinite.

But when the mist went up from the ground, when two Brothers, or a
Brother and a Sister, or two Sisters joined together and said, &ldquo;We
want to decide what things are. And we want to determine what
they&rsquo;re meaning is. And we will join together in agreement about
those meanings and definitions and our joining together will constitute
a bond that is as absolute as our divinity.&rdquo; You see? Because
still, there&rsquo;s an experience of being divine. And then the moment
the commitment is brought into play for this mutual agreement, that
such-and-such a thing is true that isn&rsquo;t true at all because
it&rsquo;s a different meaning and a different definition applied to one
of God&rsquo;s Creations, the minute that commitment occurred, something
happened &hellip; and I&rsquo;ve said it before, the infinite view was
lost, the infinite experience of Being in which all of Creation is
fully, constantly and totally available to every single Son and Daughter
of God as a conscious experience in which there is no privacy but there
is infinite fullness of awesomely utterly meaningful Being, that was
suddenly snapped away in that decision to join together&mdash;to say
that something was true that wasn&rsquo;t true and commit to it.

And suddenly the infinite view was lost.

And because every Idea of God does have that which identifies
It&mdash;renders It experienceable, that of each of the Sons and
Daughters of God that specifically identified them, became to them their
abode&mdash;the place they occupied. They found themselves not to be
experiencing all of Creation within them, but they experienced
themselves suddenly to be in a form, even though they were still
infinite and could never truly be confined to the form that they found
themselves now bound to, which they called their body.

This is very important. It&rsquo;s important because it adds to the
meaning of the special relationship and the holy instant. It adds to
your understanding.

How? Well, for example, we&rsquo;ve talked about how to practice the
holy instant. That it&rsquo;s a matter of hesitating in the middle of
your daily activities where everything you are experiencing is
constituted of meanings you have put in place in your mind, and others
have educated you to put in place in your mind.

It&rsquo;s a moment in which you hesitate and abandon validating those
meanings and definitions. And you reach out beyond your present
mentality, I&rsquo;ll say mode of thinking, mode of identifying
yourself, and you reach out beyond that to that which you&rsquo;ve come
to understand is infinite still, and never stopped being infinite
&hellip; and you ask, &ldquo;Father, what is the meaning here? What is
the truth here from Your Perspective outside of the tininess of the
definitions I&rsquo;ve created and adopted and confined myself
to?&rdquo; You see?

Now, what I want you to understand at this point, in the exposition of
the meaning of the holy instant and of special relationships and getting
out of them, what I want you to understand is that it&rsquo;s going to
be more than just reaching out to That which is beyond your present
finite sense of things, your present sense or experience of suffering
that in one way or another you feel is illegitimate even though you feel
you have no justification for having any other kind of
experience&hellip; when you reach outside and say, &ldquo;Father, what
is the truth here?&rdquo;. . as I&rsquo;ve said before, you&rsquo;re not
going to get an intellectual answer.

You&rsquo;re going to experience a shift of perception and what that is
going to mean is, that you&rsquo;re going to shift from a body
orientation, a body identification, to a mind identification. You will
find yourself able to abandon the sense of you being inside a
body&mdash;and specifically inside the head of a body.

Right now as we&rsquo;ve talked about excessively, you think all of your
conscious experiences are going on inside your skull. When the fact is,
that everything that you&rsquo;re having a conscious experience of is
occurring in an infinite Mind. And everything is, at this moment, even
though you are determining it to be
matter&mdash;physical&mdash;everything is right now an Idea being
misperceived as a thing, as an object, as a hunk of matter.

But it&rsquo;s an Idea in Mind. And it&rsquo;s You as Mind, experiencing
all of these Ideas, experiencing That which renders them visible and
tangible without causing them to become matter, holding them still
perfectly in their divine state as an Idea in the Mind of God placed
there, maintained there by God&rsquo;s constant attention to everything
in His Mind&mdash;everything in the Mind that He Is&mdash;and which
therefore maintains it constantly in you as what you divinely Are and
always have been, even though you decided to take this &ldquo;vacation
from Reality&rdquo; and get a divorce, so to speak, from your Father.

This is important. And the reason it&rsquo;s important is because it
makes it clear that it would be impossible to have a special
relationship if you didn&rsquo;t believe that you were a body.

Now, what does that do? It introduces something interesting, to say the
least. Because now, you not only have the two-step that you can practice
in order to promote the holy instant in order to escape the illusion of
being an orphan and find yourself in the place where God&rsquo;s laws
prevail and nothing else does, you have another avenue. It performs the
same function but it&rsquo;s a different way to look at it that you
might find helpful.

You know, when I&rsquo;ve talked about this mug&mdash;this
glass&mdash;and the water in it, and the fact that it&rsquo;s an Idea in
Mind, that it&rsquo;s absolutely non-material, absolutely spiritual,
absolutely divine, and I have suggested that you look at it or a vase of
flowers or a table and ask, &ldquo;What is the more that is here of what
God is Being than I&rsquo;m seeing?&rdquo;

Isn&rsquo;t that the two-step? Isn&rsquo;t that reaching beyond whatever
your current definition is?

It isn&rsquo;t like you&rsquo;re saying,
&ldquo;Hm-m…what-is-the-truth-here-in-this-glass-mug?
What-is-the-awesome-truth-of-it?&rdquo; You might, in that approach,
frighten yourself off because you are envisioning [chuckles] an
excessive degree of spirituality or divinity &hellip; because
you&rsquo;re making it such a profound moment.

And it can simply be a desire, a simple desire: &ldquo;What is the more
of what God is Being here, than what I&rsquo;m seeing?&rdquo;

Now understand, that when you say that, you&rsquo;re opening yourself up
to a shift from you as the definer of things, as a body having a mind, a
brain and sensory organs capable sensing the glass. You&rsquo;re
stepping beyond that and you&rsquo;re moving into the arena of your
mind, you might say. You&rsquo;re not trying to force your eyes to see
something, you&rsquo;re not staring at the cup, at the mug, at the
glass, at the water with intensity. You have the glass, you see the
water, you see the light reflecting off of it, but your attention is
moved to your awareness, and you&rsquo;re feeling for being sensitive to
a shift of perception that may go on in your mind. And there you are
&hellip; shifting back from body identification to mind identification.

Now this is very practically helpful. Because you have here a
practice&mdash;and I know everyone loves practices&mdash;and practices
can become habits which aren&rsquo;t helpful, but you have a practice
here and you can use it with anything that your eyes fall upon at any
moment in the day as many times a day as you feel like it. And at the
bottom line, it&rsquo;s an expression of curiosity, which is a pleasure
to engage in.

And you look at whatever you&rsquo;re seeing and ask, &ldquo;What is the
more of what God is Being right there than what I&rsquo;m seeing?&rdquo;
And then just be quiet and attentive&mdash;present with that thing.

And as I&rsquo;ve said before, absolutely every aspect of Creation is
conscious. Every aspect of Creation has the capacity to communicate its
Meaning&mdash;the Father&rsquo;s Meaning&mdash;the Meaning the Father
has embodied, by means of the Idea which is experienceable, that
you&rsquo;re looking at. It is eager &hellip; it is eager to have you
once again not be blocked from the conscious experience of its Meaning,
as was the way you experienced it before you got your divorce&mdash;an
experience you lost in that moment of commitment to an illusion with a
Brother or a Sister.

And so, whenever you ask this question throughout the day or night, you
ask, &ldquo;What is the more of what God is Being right here, than what
I&rsquo;m seeing?&rdquo; Whatever that thing is, it&rsquo;s rejoicing,
because it knows you&rsquo;re bringing your attention to it in a way
that you haven&rsquo;t for a very long time. Because always, for a very
long time, you have overlaid its Meaning with your meaning&mdash;with
the definition you and a Brother have made up and applied to It. And you
have related to the picture you have projected on something Real and the
Reality of that thing has not been able to register Itself with you by
extending Itself to you because that&rsquo;s Its function&mdash;the
function that was placed in It by the Father&mdash;that was placed in
every aspect of Creation by the Father.

Creation is living. Creation is alive. Creation is conscious. Creation
is Mind. It is therefore, something to be profoundly experienced because
it is so full of Meaning.

Now, we will be talking about this more in the next few weeks: Talking
about how body identification gets in the way of your experiencing the
Reality of your Being&mdash;which is that you are Mind in which all
forms are being experienced. You are the infiniteness in which all of
Creation Be&rsquo;s&mdash;I was going to say resides&mdash;but all of
Creation Lives dynamically, vitally, in that infinite Mind that
constitutes your Being and is the presence of God.

Now, going into the Book:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Salvation lies in the simple fact that illusions are not fearful because
they are not TRUE.[^2]
</div>

What are illusions? Illusions are definitions of things that you and
other holy Sons and Daughters of God have defined arbitrarily and
creatively in false ways and then have committed to agree to those
meanings and definitions. Those are illusions. They are definitions
applied to things that are Real and are present because God is present
and presenting Himself.

Now&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Salvation lies in the simple fact that illusions are not fearful because
they are not TRUE. They but seem to be fearful to the extent to which
you fail to recognize them for what they are, and you WILL fail to do
this to the extent to which you WANT them to be true.

They but seem to be fearful to the extent to which you fail to
recognize them for what they are&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you&rsquo;re failing to recognize that they are fabrications of
your imagination and that they have nothing to do with what God is Being
right there. That&rsquo;s why they seem fearful. They seem fearful
because you have applied definitions to them that are inconsistent with
what they Are, and therefore, I will say, their behavior, following the
original impulse of the Mind which has formed them and is Being them,
has not conformed to the definitions you&rsquo;ve applied to them. And
you have found yourself being injured in your relationship with them or
proven foolish by them. And so they seem fearful, you need to always be
on-guard to cover yourself when they don&rsquo;t quite behave according
to the meanings and definitions of the mutual agreements of the orphans
who have created them.

And &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you fail to recognize them for what they are&hellip;

&hellip; to the extent to which you WANT them to be true.
</div>

To the extent that you want the illusions to be true, you will block the
experience of what they truly are. And boy, you want your definitions of
them to be true. Because to the degree that your definitions can be
validated, you believe that you can end up validating yourself. And so
from an ego oriented standpoint&mdash;which is the only one you have as
an orphan&mdash;you need your illusions to be dependable, to be
faultless if possible, so that your integrity as an orphan can be
absolutely defined &hellip; it&rsquo;s very important for these
illusions, the false definitions that you have created to be true.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And to the same extent you are DENYING truth&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in other words, you are denying what that thing actually is as
God is Being It as an Idea in this very moment. You&rsquo;re denying
That.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And to the same extent you are DENYING truth, and so are making yourself
unable to make the simple choice between truth and illusion; . .
</div>

&hellip; if there is no difference between truth and illusion,
there&rsquo;s no awareness of choice, there&rsquo;s no awareness of
option. And if you&rsquo;ve created a meaning for something and in the
creation of the meaning, you&rsquo;ve even written a manual that
explains how it works and what its purpose is, and you&rsquo;ve written
it very specifically and very intelligently and very logically so that
no one can possibly misunderstand the perfectness of this creation of
yours, it is going to be imperative that this illusion be
real&mdash;that it truly is what you say it is, else you are
discredited. That&rsquo;s what it boils down to.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And to the same extent you are DENYING truth, and so are making yourself
unable to make the simple choice between truth and illusion; God and
fantasy.
</div>

You see? The solution to all problems, or as it says here:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Salvation lies in &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your capacity to distinguish between truth and illusion, so
that you may make the choice for truth. It seems to be much more
complicated than that. It seems as though you have to in your daily
life, manipulate circumstances and people and mindsets, because
they&rsquo;re all interlocked together in such complex ways that there
can&rsquo;t possibly be a simple answer providing a solution to all of
the problems locked in by the complexities. And yet, the complexities
you have designed and developed so that you might have a creation that
will give you great credit when it is proved to be incredible.

Oh-h&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Remember this&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that the answer to all problems lies in the simple choice
between truth and illusion.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Remember this, and you will have no difficulty in perceiving the
decision as just what it IS, and nothing more.
</div>

&hellip; as a simple choice between truth and illusion, as a simple
choice between being in a body, being a mind trapped even in a body, or
being Mind in which all experience of form is going on, because all
forms are Ideas which are perfectly tangible to the Mind that formed
them. That&rsquo;s the simplicity of it.

The simplicity of it also, is your hesitation and your silencing of your
human will and your withdrawal of your commitment to the meanings you
have applied to everything and confined yourselves to, and reaching
beyond them and saying, &ldquo;Father, what is the truth here? What is
Your perspective about this glass, and the water in it, and the light
reflecting off of it? What is the more of what You&rsquo;re being there
than what I&rsquo;m seeing?&rdquo; That&rsquo;s the way you make the
choice, the simple choice between the only two choices there are: Truth
and illusion. And the fact that of the two choices, one is Real and one
is itself illusion, makes it even less complicated, makes it even
simpler.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The core of the separation delusion &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you know, what we&rsquo;ve called the human experience, the
orphan experience.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The core of the separation delusion lies simply in the FANTASY  of
destruction of love&rsquo;s meaning.
</div>

Now, of course, we&rsquo;ve discussed the fact that the meaning of Love
can&rsquo;t be taught. But you can understand that Love involves
extension, Love involves giving. Here&rsquo;s a big clue: Your function
as the Son or Daughter of God is to acknowledge what God is being, to
join with Him in recognition of His Handiwork of what It truly is, what
Its actual meaning is. Your function is to give acknowledgement. Your
function is not to get anything. God&rsquo;s function is not to get
anything. Getting is foreign to the divine equation of Being. It&rsquo;s
part of the illusion.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The core of the separation delusion lies simply in the FANTASY of
destruction of love&rsquo;s meaning. And unless love&rsquo;s meaning is
RESTORED to you, you cannot know yourself who SHARE its meaning.
</div>

You see? Because sharing is not part of the equation of the orphan
mentality, even though in your divinity you share It&rsquo;s
meaning&mdash;that&rsquo;s your function.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Separation&hellip;
</div>

&ldquo;I&rsquo;d rather do it my way, Father. I&rsquo;d rather see it my
way. I want a divorce. I&rsquo;m getting a divorce. I have divorced you.
Mary and I are joined now. We&rsquo;re taking charge of things.&rdquo;
[chuckling] Oh-h-h &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Separation is only the decision NOT to know yourself.
</div>

It&rsquo;s the decision to forget that you&rsquo;re the Son or Daughter
of God and that you have an inheritance and a Birthright and that
you&rsquo;re incapable of experiencing sin, disease and death.
It&rsquo;s your Birthright to be free of them &hellip; transformed by
what? Fixing up your body? No, transformed by the renewing of your mind,
because it&rsquo;s all Mind. You see? The very statement,
&ldquo;transformed by the renewing of your mind,&rdquo; states the fact
that all is Mind and that is where one must be from as one embraces the
world and universe.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Separation is only the decision NOT to know yourself. Its whole thought
system is a carefully contrived learning experience, designed &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; What?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; to lead AWAY from truth and into fantasy. Yet for every
learning that would hurt you, God offers you correction and complete
escape from ALL its consequences.
</div>

Now, again, what is this escape from? It&rsquo;s escape from all of the
effects of special relationships&mdash;relationships entered into in
which any reference to a prior connection with your Father is never
spoken of, where no connection of any sort with God is allowed the
slightest entrance into the orphan mindset.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet for every learning that would hurt you, God offers you correction
and complete escape from ALL its consequences. The decision whether or
not to listen to this course and follow it is but the choice between
truth and illusion.
</div>

Now, you could read this as though it were referring to this course, A
Course In Miracles, but it is actually referring to a course of
procedure, a course of action, where you&rsquo;re making a decision,
you&rsquo;re making a choice between truth and illusion.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The decision whether or not to listen to this course and follow it is
but the choice between truth and illusion. For here is truth, SEPARATED
from illusion, and not confused with it at all.
</div>

And I would say, and not confused with it at all, any more.

I promise you that if you will engage in this practice of asking,
&ldquo;What is the more of what God is Being right there in that thing,
than what I&rsquo;m experiencing &hellip; than what I&rsquo;m seeing?
What is the more of what it is as an Idea in the Mind of God?&rdquo; . .
you are making a choice for truth and you are abandoning commitment to
tininess, your limits, your experience of suffering, sin, disease and
death.

As you begin to get glimpses of the Meaning the Father is embodying,
that goes beyond your present sense of a thing, your present definition
of a thing, the clarity you experience constitutes itself, separation
from the illusion, an invalidation of the illusion, something which
makes the illusion not in the least bit interesting any more and gives
you greater impetus to ask with further interest about everything,
&ldquo;What is the more of this? What is the more of what God is being
here, than what I&rsquo;m seeing?&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
How simple does this choice become when it is perceived as only what it
is.
</div>

You see? It&rsquo;s just a choice between seeing what&rsquo;s Real,
what&rsquo;s true and what isn&rsquo;t. It&rsquo;s not the complex
choice of, &ldquo;How am I going to get her to change her mind? She has
her mind set. She grew up in a culture in which, if this wasn&rsquo;t
allowed, now she&rsquo;s living in a culture where it is allowed. It is
going to be very difficult &hellip;&rdquo; You see? Blah, blah, blah.
And you argue yourself into a complexity that I promise you is an
illusion&mdash;an illusion that you deserve to be free of, an illusion
which we are uncovering the path out of.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
How simple does this choice become when it is perceived as only what it
is. For ONLY fantasies made confusion in choosing possible, and they are
totally unreal. This year is thus the time to make the easiest decision
that ever confronted you, and also the ONLY one.
</div>

You know, so you&rsquo;re confronted with a woman who grew up in a
culture that disallows for things that are allowed in this culture, and
which her not taking hold of and embracing is causing her difficulty in
this new culture. And you say, &ldquo;This is very difficult. This is
going to be impossible.&rdquo; Well, stop saying that! And instead say,
&ldquo;What is the more of what God is being right here than what
I&rsquo;m presently seeing?&rdquo; You see? Abandon this little brain
inside a body that you think is your abode, your dwelling and your
identity, abandon that and ask beyond it. And then listen from beyond
it.

Listen for the answer in the Mind that you Are that in which all of
Creation is being experienced by you right now because you are infinite
and you are the Mind in which the body is being experienced, rather than
the body in which the Mind resides. Very important. But very simple, a
very simple easy practice of curiosity.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You will cross the bridge into reality simply because you will recognize
that God is on the other side and nothing AT ALL is here. It is
impossible NOT to make the natural decision as this is realized.
</div>

Now there&rsquo;s a lot to contemplate here. Simple though. Not so
simple that it does not deserve your consistent disciplined practice of
it frequently, because you are so committed to making and maintaining
your definitions in order to prove your integrity and actual independent
presence. You see?

So, we will talk more about this. It&rsquo;s wonderful. Bring it into
play all week this week. And I look forward to being with your next
week.

[^1]: Bible: John 1:1
[^2]: T16.5 Specialness and Guilt

