---
title: Nov 13, 2010
ref: "T16.6 The Bridge to the Real World"
alink: "/acim/text/16/chap1606/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

Before we go into the Book tonight, I want to discuss something that
isn&rsquo;t discussed as often as it ought to be. And it&rsquo;s the
meaning of the word, &ldquo;correction.&rdquo; It&rsquo;s a word found
many times in the Course. Correction could, in some ways, be called the
goal of the Course. It is to correct misperceptions.

And of course, the biggest and truly only misperception there is, is the
idea&mdash;the imaginary idea&mdash;that each of you are independent,
autonomous, self-starters who came from a sperm and a egg &hellip; a
fluke of nature that happens to have become a dominant force of nature,
you might say, at least on your planet.

Survival of the fittest, as we&rsquo;ve discussed extensively is the
underlying engine of being. And this is a misperception. This
misperception must be corrected.

And that&rsquo;s what all of this is about.

All of this time we&rsquo;ve spent talking, considering, reading the
Course, and here we are talking about the two-step: The place where you
hesitate, you shut up your mind, you abandon your confidences in what
you believe and you reach outside of &ldquo;the box&rdquo; of your
mentality&mdash;your self-constructed mentality and you say of God or
the Holy Spirit or the &ldquo;Powers that be,&rdquo;&mdash;That which is
the cause of everything&mdash;&ldquo;What is the truth here?&rdquo; And
then you remain silent and you listen. And that silence, that space of
time, if you will, is the holy instant.

Now, the holy instant is the place in which God&rsquo;s laws prevail.
And I have said this many times over the past few months. And I&rsquo;ve
said it in the way that I know is reassuring to everyone. In other
words, it is reassuring to know that if you practice the holy instant,
if you practice the two-step and go into the Silence with genuine
curiosity to know the truth beyond your present sense of the truth of
everything, that you indeed move into a place where God&rsquo;s laws
prevail and nothing else does. It&rsquo;s reassuring to know that.

But here&rsquo;s something that most everyone tends to overlook. If
there is a place where God&rsquo;s laws prevail, in other words, govern
absolutely, then there are laws, aren&rsquo;t there? There are
principles, if I may put it that way. This means that there are
structures according to which you must be.

There are not just guidelines &hellip; &ldquo;Well, it would be helpful
if you did this &hellip; and it would be a good thing if you did
that&hellip;&rdquo; There are absolute laws: Thou cannot have sin,
disease or death. You cannot be an orphan successfully. You cannot
ignore the truth and be comfortable. You cannot make up your own
definitions and replace the Real ones with them and feel secure.

Now, put more positively: The laws of God say obedience to
truth&mdash;love of truth&mdash;heals, transforms, causes the laws of
the God to become visible to you as an experience, not just an
intellectual theory.

You must abide by the way things work if you would experience Heaven
here and now.

So, although many love the phrase from the Course that says, &ldquo;You
need do nothing,&rdquo; the fact is that what that means is, you must
stop doing what doesn&rsquo;t work. You must stop doing what amounts to
nothing. You must stop doing what causes
illusion&mdash;delusion&mdash;and binds you to a suffering sense of
existence.

That&rsquo;s what the law of God says. Those are what the laws of God
say. They require something of you.

Now there are many who say that the Course is not about miracles as
demonstrations of the miraculous. Well maybe it&rsquo;s not. But it is
about correction, isn&rsquo;t it. No one will deny that. Okay.

So you plant a seed and an Amaryllis begins to come up and the leaves
are well-formed and the color is beautiful and the stalk gets longer.
And as it gets longer, it suddenly seems to stop. Some of the other
leaves grow further, but when the stalk comes out that has the flowers,
it&rsquo;s bent to the left and doesn&rsquo;t reach the height that it
ought to have and it&rsquo;s beauty is marred by its growth being
stunted &hellip; we&rsquo;ll call it that.

Well, is everyone spiritually magnanimous and does everyone look at it
and say, &ldquo;It&rsquo;s still the loveliness of God and even though
it&rsquo;s not ultimate, I will appreciate everything about it. And I
know that although the flower might not be standing tall and proud and
majestic, it&rsquo;s still going to be quite enjoyable and I&rsquo;m
going to bring my love and appreciation to it &hellip; as it is, of
course, stunted.&rdquo;

And that can be considered miraculous thinking. That can be considered
you fulfilling your function of acknowledging God in each and every
thing and glorifying God in each of every thing and not filling yourself
with sadness or a little bit of remorse because it&rsquo;s not quite
what it could be.

But I&rsquo;m going to ask you: Where is the correction? What is
correction? Why it&rsquo;s a miracle. It&rsquo;s a sudden shift of
perception, isn&rsquo;t it?

But a sudden shift of perception that isn&rsquo;t identified by
correction is not miraculous and it is not a miracle.

Now, what if this alteration in growth appears to be happening to a
child&mdash;your child, perhaps your grandchild, your niece or nephew?
Do you commit yourself to helping them have the best life they can under
the circumstances? Do you maybe, do the two-step and say, &ldquo;Father,
what is the truth here?&rdquo; And if you experience an influx of
clarity, an influx of the comprehension of the truth as an experience
within you, and it is so clear to you that, let us say, you aren&rsquo;t
fooled by the appearance even though the appearance hasn&rsquo;t
changed, and you feel grateful and perhaps you think that is miraculous
and that is a miracle&mdash;that that is all there is to a sudden shift
of perception.

I&rsquo;m telling you that it&rsquo;s not.

There&rsquo;s something called, &ldquo;Follow-through.&rdquo; And
that&rsquo;s what I want to address tonight because most everyone
doesn&rsquo;t really comprehend the miracles that A Course In Miracles
is about.

You tell me what on earth it could possibly mean for you to take steps
which constitute the Bridge to the Real World that we&rsquo;re going to
be talking about. You tell me what on earth Meaning there can be to
practicing the holy instant and not seeing evidence of God&rsquo;s laws
prevailing?

If you&rsquo;re not seeing the lengthening of limbs, if you&rsquo;re not
seeing the symmetry of a plant restoring itself, you haven&rsquo;t
tapped A Course In Miracles!

And you know what? You sort of glide along in a sense of hope and a
sense of confidence and general uplift, not a spectacular uplift, but a
general uplift that&rsquo;s a little bit better than what everyone else
is experiencing. And you think that&rsquo;s all that it&rsquo;s about.
You think that&rsquo;s all you deserve. You think that&rsquo;s all that
you can have. Because, of course, A Course In Miracles is about
something else: It&rsquo;s just about a head-trip&mdash;a shift of
perception.

Your misperception is always a misperception of the Kingdom of Heaven.
Your misperception is always a misperception of
Reality&mdash;God&rsquo;s Reality&mdash;the Presence of God illuminating
Itself, manifesting Itself infinitely, gloriously, flawlessly,
indivisibly without conflict, polarity or anything unlike Itself.

If you&rsquo;re not seeing it, there&rsquo;s a need for correction. The
need for correction practiced, and I&rsquo;m going to say, accomplished,
is going to be you seeing the Kingdom of Heaven, seeing God&rsquo;s
Creation right here, right in front of you&mdash;the hand at the end of
your arm, the limb of your granddaughter or grandson that&rsquo;s
shortened, you&rsquo;re going to see correction of it. Why? Because
you&rsquo;re going to see Reality, you&rsquo;re going to see what God is
Being right there, flawlessly, eternally, unchangeably, beautifully.

Hey, if there isn&rsquo;t a Real World to see, then there&rsquo;s no
need for a bridge to a Real World, is there?

And so, here&rsquo;s the point: When you are observing things that call
for correction and you&rsquo;re sort of giving a cursory blessing to it,
or even a blessing that is a little bit more diligent, with a little bit
more conscious intent, if you&rsquo;re not sticking with it until you
have experienced the shift of perception that constitutes the miracle,
you will not see the correction and you&rsquo;re still going to be
asleep! You&rsquo;re still going to be dreaming.

&ldquo;Well, you know, I&rsquo;ve been studying the Course&hellip; you
know. We have problems from time to time, in fact there&rsquo;s a
problem going on right now and I&rsquo;m doing my best to live the
Course relative to it. I really don&rsquo;t know what to do
&hellip;&rdquo;

Well, we&rsquo;ve been talking about what to do. What I&rsquo;m bringing
up tonight is, that when you do the two-step and you don&rsquo;t see the
correction, then there&rsquo;s still a call for correction, isn&rsquo;t
there &hellip; a call of correction for what? Your perception!

And so it&rsquo;s not time to put it down. It&rsquo;s not time to
abandon it. It&rsquo;s not time to say, &ldquo;Well, that&rsquo;s going
on out there, and it&rsquo;s part of God&rsquo;s Creation and I&rsquo;ve
done my best to bless it, but of course, you know there are
circumstances that are contributing to it and they complicate things.
And I don&rsquo;t have control over all of those things. Hey, maybe the
plant doesn&rsquo;t want to be healed. Maybe it&rsquo;s part of that
child&rsquo;s karma to have a shortened limb &hellip; maybe it was part
of the lesson-plan for this lifetime.&rdquo; BULLSHIT!

You must be alert and you must not let yourself be sucked into
lackadaisical, irresponsible, lazy, slipshod patterns of behavior and
think that you&rsquo;re practicing A Course In Miracles or getting what
it means.

&ldquo;Well, Raj, you say, &lsquo;The only right use of will is not to
use it.&rsquo; I love that phrase, Raj &hellip; &lsquo;The only right
use of will is to choose not to use it &hellip; to not practice
self-will &hellip; to abandon willfulness.&rsquo;&rdquo;

Oh, indeed, yes. But I didn&rsquo;t say sit down and sog like a lump of
silly putty, or bread-dough that just flattens out and becomes sluggish
and useless.

No. The only right use of will&mdash;meaning human will&mdash;is to
choose not to use it. When you choose not to use human will, you do
find yourself moving into a place of, for lack of better words,
willingness &hellip; will-ing-ness &hellip; willing to be present with,
to cooperate with, to not assert yourself instead of something else and
to let yourself fit in with the something else. And when that expression
of intense self-will is abandoned, something spontaneously happens, like
harmony is experienced and you don&rsquo;t feel at odds with everything.
And you begin to feel the meaning of everything and how you fit into it.
And you find that in the absence of your willfulness, it becomes very
clear to you how to be &hellip; how to be, not how to sog &hellip; how
to be&mdash;a verb, a vital active verb: to be. To be what? To be
perfect &hellip; to be perfectly appropriate. And so that means
you&rsquo;re going to do something.

You are going to do things. You are going to be the movement of
appropriateness. And so, you will act. But the action will not come out
of self-will, it will not come out of the orphan mindset. It will arise
in you because the Something that you have let yourself be part
of&mdash;to blend with, to fit in with&mdash;is the rest of you, which
really means it&rsquo;s all of God.

And so, what God is Being becomes reflected in your actions. Will is
expressed. This must be understood. You will not end up doing nothing.
You will be the fullness of the expression of God in all
appropriateness, at every given moment. Which means that everything you
engage in will be ultimately meaningful, ultimately valuable, divinely
Real.

And so, you know what? Since this is what happens when you practice the
holy instant and go into the silence and un-separate yourself from your
Source you will come into the fullness of your Being. And your actions
will, in every way, correct or allow for the correction to become
visible to you. Because you&rsquo;re not going to give up your
attentiveness to the Father&rsquo;s Perspective until every last speck
of illusion is gone, until every last thing calling for correction is
corrected &hellip; you know.

It&rsquo;s also said that everything is Love or a call for Love.

Well, what is a call for Love?

It&rsquo;s a call for correction. And the correction must be Love
expressed &hellip; Right?

So you don&rsquo;t put down the Love until the correction is
accomplished. You persist, in other words. What does that mean? You
persist in control? No, you persist in preparing your mind to have the
true perception. You persist in bring your attention to that place where
God&rsquo;s laws prevail and where therefore, His perfection is
available for you to experience and where your capacity to be utterly
and perfectly appropriate&mdash;because the Father&rsquo;s Will is what
is finding expression in you&mdash;allows healing to be experienced by
others.

This is extremely important.

The Bridge to the Real World is the natural next place to bring yourself
to&mdash;the holy instant. Why? So that you might be happy in your
illusions? So that you might continue to see something else right where
the Kingdom of Heaven is? No! But so that you can see Reality as it is
right here, right now. That&rsquo;s the whole point.

Now the new section: The Bridge To The Real World, begins:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The search for the special relationship is the sign that you equate
yourself with the ego, and not with God.[^1]
</div>

Why does it say that? Because it&rsquo;s the orphan, it&rsquo;s the
independent authorizer who has gotten a divorce from his Father, who
seeks and values the special relationship because its existence or its
seeming existence as a viable entity independent from the Father can
only be experienced that way when there&rsquo;s a mutual agreement to
that misperception. It&rsquo;s the only way. And so a special
relationship is essential.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For the special relationship has value ONLY to the ego.
</div>

To the orphan mindset.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To the ego UNLESS a relationship has special value it has NO meaning,
and it perceives ALL love as special.
</div>

Now:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To the ego UNLESS a relationship has special value it has NO
meaning&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that&rsquo;s because it&rsquo;s only when it has special value
that it contributes to, reinforces and seems to substantiate the
actuality of an independent agent, separate and apart from God, his
Father/Mother. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet this CANNOT be natural, for it is unlike the relationship of God and
His Son, and all relationships that are unlike this One MUST be
unnatural.
</div>

What does that mean &ldquo;unnatural&rdquo;? It means it doesn&rsquo;t
fit in with the laws of God. It calls for correction. It calls for
specific, disciplined, consistent hanging in there, desiring to know the
truth, see the truth, feel the truth, have an experience of Reality
right where your conditioning is blocking you from it.  

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For God created love as He would have it be, and gave it as it IS.
</div>

Simple, pure consistency &hellip; uncomplicated &hellip; doesn&rsquo;t
change as it goes down the road becoming something else a little bit
different, not quite like its original. No &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; God created love as He would have it be, and gave it as it IS.
Love has no meaning except as its Creator defined it by His Will. It is
impossible to define it otherwise and UNDERSTAND it.
</div>

No other mutual agreement that anyone comes to about it can change it
from what it is. And any attempt to redefine it and agree to believe the
misunderstanding will cause you not to understand what Love is. And it
calls for correction, persistent intent to answer the call for Love, to
answer the need for correction until you have the transformative
experience of it that can be photographed and recognized by all.

And, you know what? Reality is photographable. The Kingdom of Heaven is
experienceable. And the Kingdom of Heaven is everything you&rsquo;re
experiencing without flaws, without having any misuse assigned to it,
without being capable of harm in any way. You see? Identifying
fulfillment totally.

&ldquo;Oh, well you know, I didn&rsquo;t really know that I was supposed
to look forward to an actual healing. I didn&rsquo;t know that I
wasn&rsquo;t supposed to just settle for three-quarters of the
fulfillment or some fulfillment that just slightly
skewed&mdash;beautiful but recognizably not perfect. I didn&rsquo;t know
that I wasn&rsquo;t supposed to be happy with that.&rdquo;  That&rsquo;s
like saying, &ldquo;I didn&rsquo;t know that a call for correction was
really a call for correction!&rdquo;  Now I&rsquo;m not making fun of
anyone. I am conveying to you that a call for correction is a call for
correction that takes you all the way to the conscious, tangible
experience of the Kingdom of Heaven &hellip; here &hellip; in this
lifetime &hellip; now. That&rsquo;s what this is about. There are laws
of God. There are principles. There are ways to behave.

And you know what? The Ten Commandments and the Beatitudes are very
helpful, but you know where I want you to go to get the laws of God? I
want you to go into the holy instant. I want you to go into the silence
of your Being where you have abandoned being willful, where you have
abandoned determining the meaning of everything for yourself, where you
have abandoned commitment to the meanings that everyone else has given
you, that you have accepted without once having had a direct, inner
experience of the law of God, which is Love and the laws of God that
fulfill the law of Love in infinite ways.

Don&rsquo;t go to the list in the book. Go within. &ldquo;Oh, I think
that&rsquo;s called the two-step. And I think that&rsquo;s the way you
practice the holy instant.&rdquo; And now it&rsquo;s clearer than ever
before why you&rsquo;re practicing the holy instant. Not just so that
you might experience the fact that here is where God's laws prevail. But
the fact that because here in that inner altar of your Being, God's laws
prevail, you see the evidence of the Kingdom of Heaven come to view and
it looks like transformation of the world. Because all it really is, is
a shift of perception in which your misperceptions yield to what
everything originally was and has continued to be in spite of the fact
that you&rsquo;ve insisted on overlaying your own definitions upon it
all and, as a result, have blinded yourself to the perfection of Being,
which a sudden shift of perception, called, &ldquo;a miracle&rdquo;
uncovers to you as your conscious experience.

Now, we&rsquo;re still talking about the two-step. We&rsquo;re still
talking about the holy instant. We&rsquo;re still talking about
abandoning the special relationship. And we&rsquo;re still talking
about shifting from body-identification to Mind-identification.  And I
trust that I have been talking about it in a way that has crystallized
even further for you how things work, so that you are less confused and
so that you are able to bring willingness rather than willfulness into
play with greater consistency, so that correction will occur and
correction will mean something more than just a new idea in your head
that makes you feel temporarily more comfortable. Uh-huh.  You deserve
an experience that will be eternally satisfying because it will be the
truth experienced without there ever being an alteration of it again.

Now I may not have talked as long as usual tonight, but I have given you
about three times as much as I have ever given before in longer periods
of time.

I bet it&rsquo;s going to be a great week for you. And I look forward to
being with you next time.

[^1]: T16.6 The Bridge to the Real World

