---
title: Nov 20, 2010
ref: "T16.6 The Bridge to the Real World"
alink: "/acim/text/16/chap1606/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

I have one thing I want to discuss tonight. And so, our Gathering will
be brief.

Paul is afraid I&rsquo;m going to sound &ldquo;cutesy&rdquo; because
what I&rsquo;m going to talk about tonight, I&rsquo;m calling, &ldquo;A
Thanksgiving recipe.&rdquo; I&rsquo;m not meaning to be cute or amusing.
I&rsquo;m going to be talking about a recipe for Thanksgiving. A recipe
for thanks giving. And the reason I&rsquo;m bringing it up is because
there are simply too many people entering this next week&mdash;a week at
least in the United States where Thanksgiving is a holiday being,
we&rsquo;ll say, consciously celebrated &hellip; a day set aside for it.

And the likelihood is that a great many people will enter into this
holiday not feeling any thanks at all, finding it very difficult to feel
gratitude for anything. And yet, it is not anyone&rsquo;s birthright,
it&rsquo;s no one&rsquo;s obligation to be entering into this week of
holiday and thanks giving without joy, without gratitude.

And so, I&rsquo;m going to suggest that you start Thanksgiving Day
tonight or whenever you happen to be listening to these words, so that
you consciously bring your attention to those things for which you are
able to feel gratitude. I encourage you to do this so you don&rsquo;t
haphazardly arrive at Thanksgiving Day and we&rsquo;ll say, at the last
minute, find yourself bereft of joy, of gratitude, of thanks for
anything.

Prepare to be grateful by being grateful ahead of time and finding the
means to get past the justifications you have for being ungrateful, for
being angry, for being hurt.

Now, we read last time that:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; God created love as He would have it be, and gave it as it
IS.[^1]
</div>

In other words, pure. The gift of Love that finds expression in every
act of God embodies Love. And because it embodies Love, it&rsquo;s
function is to be Love. Every act of God is an act of Love. You are an
act of God. Right at this moment, you are an act of God. You are Love
and your function is Love. You can&rsquo;t change that. You can believe
differently, but you can&rsquo;t change it. And because you can&rsquo;t
change it, you can change your belief when you&rsquo;re believing the
opposite.

In fact, you can do better than just have a better belief. You can
abandon believing&mdash;believing things that you made up. And that is
what the holy instant is for. That is what the two-step is for, for
making a conscious choice to abandon what keeps you in bondage, what
covers over any justification you might feel for being joyful and for
experiencing what God is Being right where you are right now.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Love has no meaning except as its Creator defined it by His Will. It is
impossible to define it otherwise and UNDERSTAND it.
</div>

Well how could you define it otherwise?

Oh-h&hellip; yes. Love is when someone treats you well. Love is when no
one violates the mutual agreements that you have come to. Love is when
no one violates a special relationship. But woe unto you and woe unto
anyone else if a special relationship is violated or a mutual agreement
is not lived up to.

I say, &ldquo;woe unto you and whoa unto the one who doesn&rsquo;t live
up to it&rdquo; because if you are hooked into expressing judgment
because someone hasn&rsquo;t respected you by violating a special
relationship or breaking a mutual agreement or anything else, you have
bound yourself to a call for justice&mdash;not a call for correction
&hellip; a call for justice. A call for justice always brings into play
the guilt of the one from whom justice is called for. You suffer from
binding yourself to the task of extracting justice where disrespect has
been expressed. And you eat yourself up by those actions.

&ldquo;Oh, yes &hellip; my children don&rsquo;t respect me. Oh-h, yes
&hellip; my partner doesn&rsquo;t respect me. Oh-h, yes &hellip; my
children or my partner have &hellip; aww gee &hellip; decided to take
advantage of me&mdash;not just disrespect me&mdash;but take advantage of
me at my expense! This is unbelievable and intolerable. IT B-U-R-N-S
M-Y A-S-S!&rdquo;

And how many of you today are leading into a week of thanks giving with
these feelings? And how many of you are unaware of the fact that in this
inner business, you aren&rsquo;t noticing that gratitude is
missing&mdash;the joy is missing? I mean, you know you&rsquo;re
miserable, you know you&rsquo;re not happy, but it doesn&rsquo;t occur
to you that something is absent that it&rsquo;s your Birthright to be
experiencing and you are experiencing something that it is not your
Birthright to be experiencing.

And so you&rsquo;re not questioning it. And you&rsquo;ll go through the
week and you&rsquo;ll be miserable and you will ache inside and you will
feel the injustice, and it might even end you up in bed, immobilized.
And then you&rsquo;ll arrive at Thanksgiving Day. And because
that&rsquo;s all anyone&rsquo;s talking about, as though they had
nothing to worry about themselves, you know, they&rsquo;re so
inconsiderate as to be happy when you&rsquo;re miserable, that day will
come and you will be aware of how bereft you are of your joy.

And so I&rsquo;m heading off that result at the beginning of the week.
Why? Because I think the Thanksgiving holiday is so important? No. It
does serve as a focus for answering the call for correction that&rsquo;s
happening in you. And so I&rsquo;m using it for that. But you know
what? Whether it&rsquo;s today or next Thursday, you deserve to be
relieved because it&rsquo;s your Birthright not to be caught in an
illusion in something that you are suffering needlessly from.

Now, it says here:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Love is FREEDOM. To look for it by placing yourself in bondage is to
SEPARATE yourself from it.
</div>

Well, what does that mean?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To look for it by placing yourself in bondage is to SEPARATE yourself
from it.
</div>

Well, when you enter into a special relationship with someone, when you
feel that they have an obligation to you, whether they&rsquo;re your
children or whether they&rsquo;re your partners or whoever, you are
confirming and substantiating a union &hellip; well, I&rsquo;m going to
say, a union of orphans: A union of those who are sourceless. And the
result is that you become bonded&mdash;in bondage&mdash;as two separated
miserable souls who are using each other by one means or another to be
able to have experiences of joy.

Now, when you abandoned your Father and you joined with a Brother or a
Sister and that becomes your primary relationship, that&rsquo;s a
special relationship. It&rsquo;s not a holy relationship. And you will
bind yourself to misery and the misery will be amplified. Why? Well,
it&rsquo;s like trying to be a light-bulb lighting up without being
plugged in. And it takes a lot of effort to try to light up and be
illuminated when there&rsquo;s no juice. And actually, illumination
never occurs but boy does the stress occur. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Love is FREEDOM. To look for it by placing yourself in bondage is to
SEPARATE yourself from it.
</div>

What is Love? Well &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; God created Love as He would have it be, and gave it as it IS.
</div>

It&rsquo;s the very substance and essence and purpose and function of
you&mdash;of your Being. That&rsquo;s what it is. But you forget that
when you get into special relationships and obligations to not violate
mutual agreements and to live up to them because after all, the whole
purpose of the mutual agreements is to arrive at a point where you have
proof of your respectability as an orphan&mdash;as someone who is
fatherless and motherless, who has no inheritance and therefore, who has
no intrinsic worth. And the more you all hold onto each other to get
proof and verification of one&rsquo;s value, it can only bring misery.

And you know why? It&rsquo;s because special relationships were never
meant to be able to perform that function. You&rsquo;re already the Act
of God&mdash;God in the act of Being Himself right now, right where you
are&mdash;is which constitutes You, your Being and your function. And so
your value and your, I&rsquo;m going to say, respectability is not only
intact it is awesome.

And so, when you say, &ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;d rather not pay any
attention to that. I&rsquo;d rather look at it fresh, all by myself
without Your Perspective. And I want to look at it with Joe over there
or Mary over there and we&rsquo;re going to mutually come to agreements
and understandings and definitions of meanings that will prove to each
of us our intrinsic value and worth.&rdquo; You see?

R-r-r-i-i-p-p &hellip; the plug got unplugged, the juice is no longer
flowing and there&rsquo;s no way for any acts of these unplugged ones to
have a Real experience of freedom and of love emerge &hellip; or joy.

What would you say &hellip; what would you say the fundamental element
is that causes the spontaneous experience of joy and gratitude and
thanksgiving? It isn&rsquo;t what anyone does or doesn&rsquo;t do.
It&rsquo;s the experience of freedom. It&rsquo;s simply that: The
experience of freedom. The experience of not being in bondage. The
experience of not being governed by anything less than that which is in
the act of being you at this moment, which is an act of Love because
it&rsquo;s God Moving.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For the love of God&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in other words, to find the love of God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For the love of God, no longer seek for union in separation&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you know&hellip; with other orphans&mdash;other sourceless
ones, other miserable ones&mdash;who have this incredible inspiring task
of working together by creating definitions and meanings and mutual
agreements that allow each of them to begin to feel valuable and
worthwhile without having to connect with their Source. You see?

Again:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For the love of God, no longer seek for union in separation, nor for
freedom in bondage! As you release, so will you be released.
</div>

Okay, key words there:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As you release, so will you be released.
</div>

So, you see, I want you to arrive on Thanksgiving Day in a state of
release. And so I&rsquo;m saying start tonight. Start now to release, so
that you can be released.

Oh, what does that mean &hellip; &ldquo;release&rdquo;? It means:
Release your other orphan friends that you have special relationships
with exclusive of the Father. Release them from your expectations.
Release them from your expectation that they had better express greater
respect for you by withdrawing their willingness to violate the special
relationship or break the mutual agreement. Stop requiring them to be
respectful.

Now let&rsquo;s be careful. There&rsquo;s a need for respect to be
expressed. But here&rsquo;s the thing: Stop requiring others to be
respectful before you will allow yourself to feel the joy of your Being
that the Father is placing in you at every moment by virtue of His act
of Being right there where you are. You see?

That&rsquo;s manipulation and control. &ldquo;Oh, you&rsquo;ll be the
death of me yet. Oh, you&rsquo;re making me miserable. Oh, you&rsquo;d
better stop making me miserable because we have an agreement to treat
each other well.&rdquo; You see?

You have a technique available. You have a tool. It&rsquo;s called the
two-step. It leads to the experience of the holy instant, where union
with God is experienced and where the laws of God prevail no matter what
other jerks are or are not doing. That&rsquo;s freedom. And out of that
freedom comes joy and love and thanks or gratitude.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As you release, so will you be released. Forget this not, or love will
be unable to find you and comfort you.
</div>

&ldquo;Oh, but I don&rsquo;t want love to find me and comfort me, I want
Joe to find me and comfort me. I want Mary to find me and respect me and
stop all this bullshit! I want my children to find me and treat me with
respect.&rdquo;

Well, you know what? They may not. And you had better stop preferring to
have them find you and respect you or to have them find you and love
you. You had better stop preferring that over your willingness to
remember to engage in the holy instant &hellip; practice the two-step
and say, &ldquo;Father, what is the truth here?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Well, the truth is, that you are My beloved Son, you are My
beloved Daughter in whom I am well pleased. I&rsquo;m withholding
nothing of what I Am from you. You are free.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Oh-h, well, I really think I want to seek union in separation a
little bit longer. I think I still want to try to get &hellip; you know,
my jerk partner or my jerk children or my jerk parents to &hellip; you
know, just simply recognize that I am worthy and respectable. You know,
I&rsquo;m going to hold out for that a little bit longer.&rdquo;

Well, then go ahead and ruin your Thanksgiving Day. But remember, you
don&rsquo;t have to &hellip; remember that you don&rsquo;t have to!

You&rsquo;re not here to carry out the mutual agreements or the
penalties for breaking the mutual agreements. That&rsquo;s not what you
were created for. That is not what you are here for. That&rsquo;s not
what the act of God, that God is engaged in right where you are right
now, is supposed to mean. It means freedom.

But you know what? You&rsquo;re going to have to start using the recipe
for Thanksgiving.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is a way in which the Holy Spirit asks your help, if you would
have His.
</div>

Well, again the question is: Is it the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s help you
want, or is it the orphan you&rsquo;re having such a hard time with that
you want help from. You want to extract from him or her or them an
acknowledgement of respect&mdash;it&rsquo;s only right that you have it,
after all, you raised them, didn&rsquo;t you? &hellip;or you&rsquo;ve given
your life to your partner, didn&rsquo;t you? &hellip;for a certain number of
years, long enough &hellip; long enough to justify good treatment.

But, you see, you&rsquo;re looking in the wrong place and you&rsquo;re
trying to extract the experience of freedom from something that
can&rsquo;t give it. And most of all, your engaging in it blinds you to
the fact that you are already in possession of infinite freedom because
no matter what you&rsquo;ve come to believe, you are still the result,
the evidence of God in the act of being Himself. And the love that
constitutes your being has no meaning except as it&rsquo;s Creator
defined it by His Will. You see?

I&rsquo;m not talking about approaching this coming Thanksgiving Holiday
with rhetoric of gratitude. &ldquo;Oh, I&rsquo;m so happy to be alive
today,&rdquo; when you&rsquo;re not. &ldquo;Oh, it&rsquo;s going to be a
beautiful day today,&rdquo; when you don&rsquo;t think it is. No, I want
you to treat this subject of thanksgiving more seriously, not so that
you can&rsquo;t feel joy, but so that you recognize that is significant.

Thanksgiving is the natural spontaneous result of the experience of
freedom. And freedom is your experience when you withdraw from engaging
in manipulating others or in being offended by the attempts of others to
manipulate you and instead practicing the holy instant and saying,
&ldquo;Father, in spite of what they are doing, in spite of their
malicious intent, in spite of how awful they know it will make me feel,
in spite of all of that what is it my Birthright to be experiencing?
What is the truth about You and me, and in light of the truth about You
and me, about them? What is the truth about it?&rdquo;

You must switch your focus of attention and stop trying to extract
freedom from a place it doesn&rsquo;t exist. And release those who seem
unable to give it to you, from the obligation to give it to you, before
you&rsquo;re willing to feel your joy.

Go ahead and feel your joy. The call for others to respect you will
still be present. But you don&rsquo;t have to use it as justification
for feeling really miserable and letting the world know about it in an
attempt to get the world to behave differently and treat you nicely with
respect so that you can feel your respectability without having to
connect with your Father. You see? That&rsquo;s the point.

Seeking freedom without connecting with your Father will not bring
freedom. It will bring all sorts and levels of bondage. That&rsquo;s the
only way it works.

And so I encourage you to have a wonderful week. And I encourage you to
behave in a way &hellip; you know&mdash;using the recipe for
Thanksgiving&mdash;to arrive at Thanksgiving Day not feeling bereft at
all.

Because that&rsquo;s the way it should be.

Okay, I look forward to being with you next week.

[^1]: T16.6 The Bridge to the Real World

