---
title: Nov 27, 2010
ref: "T16.6 The Bridge to the Real World"
alink: "/acim/text/16/chap1606/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

Well last week we covered five lines. And some of you may be feeling
some impatience &hellip; &ldquo;How will we ever get done with the Book
if he takes so long?&rdquo;

But I want to remind everyone that getting to the end of the Book
doesn&rsquo;t mean you&rsquo;ll Wake up. But getting it&mdash;getting
the point&mdash;at any moment along the way, will.

I&rsquo;m taking time, you might say, I&rsquo;m valuing the subject
matter enough not to gloss over it, but to help bring out the deeper
meanings. Why? So that you might get it tonight &hellip; so that you
might&rsquo;ve gotten it last week. You see?

How many of you have read a book that was so engaging and so interesting
that you read it in one sitting or perhaps just in two days and enjoyed
it thoroughly because it was so fantastic? And a month later you
couldn&rsquo;t remember very many of the details of what the story was
about&mdash;just highlights.

That&rsquo;s not learning. That&rsquo;s not really valuable because it
hasn&rsquo;t become yours.

So, you don&rsquo;t want to be goal-oriented. You want to be
Presence-oriented. So tonight, be with me. Be with me tonight. Be
present with me while I&rsquo;m being present with you. And let that be
good enough because in the intimacy of our being together, you might get
it. And then, finishing the Book will be irrelevant.

Now, we were talking about freedom last week. And before we move on, I
want to ask a question: What is a special relationship? We&rsquo;ve been
talking about it for a long time. And in many ways, I have described it.
But tonight, I&rsquo;m asking again: &ldquo;What is a special
relationship?&rdquo;

Well, you think a relationship is something between you and another
person.  You think you and another person have a relationship. And if
you&rsquo;ve been listening to what I&rsquo;ve been saying the last few
weeks, if God fits nowhere into the picture of this relationship you
have with another person, it&rsquo;s a special relationship. If you are
not experiencing your identity as the Son or Daughter of God while you
are in relationship, then you are in a special relationship and you
could think that means you&rsquo;re having a relationship with another
person and leaving God out of it &hellip; that a special relationship is
constituted of two or more persons relating to each other without being
plugged into their Father. Simple.

But it&rsquo;s not true.

What is a special relationship? A special relationship is constituted of
&hellip; and listen carefully &hellip; a special relationship is
constituted of mutual agreements&mdash;a structure of mutual agreements.
You could say, like a code of ethics, or the laws of the land. They are
ideas. They&rsquo;re intellectual concepts which two or more have given
meaning to and have agreed have meaning.

But it&rsquo;s this structure of ideas, this structure of ethics, this
structure of logic, this structure of concepts that is what constitutes
a special relationship.

Individualities or persons cannot have special relationships. And what
goes on between persons is not what the words, &ldquo;special
relationships&rdquo; refer to.

You say, &ldquo;Well, of course it does. I understand that if I have a
special relationship or if I&rsquo;m in a special relationship, I am
behaving in a way that arises out of my need to be special, my need to
be acknowledged&mdash;recognized&mdash;because I don&rsquo;t feel my
integrity because I&rsquo;m not plugged into my Source, I&rsquo;m not
acknowledging my relationship with my Father. And so I understand that
whether I&rsquo;m doing nice things or mean things, it is something
that&rsquo;s going on between me and another person. And you know, if
that person touches me in a certain way, it&rsquo;s wonderful and if
that person touches me in another way, it&rsquo;s
harmful&mdash;it&rsquo;s hurtful. If this person looks at me &ldquo;that
way&rdquo; or another person shrugs his shoulders in a certain way
&hellip;&rdquo;

These are all ways of demonstrating a relationship between persons.

But I want you to &hellip; I want you &hellip; Oh-h, I want you to be
willing to be honest and take a look. Because the simple fact is, that
how a person touches you doesn&rsquo;t constitute an act of a special
relationship because you are giving all the meaning to that touch that
it has. That touch and how you&rsquo;re experiencing it is governed by
some mutual agreements, either in your culture or in your relationship
with that person. You have a mutual agreement and when that look is
given, it has that meaning.

And so you say, &ldquo;Well, he looked at me that way&mdash;he looked at
me meanly. It was meant to make me feel bad.&rdquo;

Well, that makes it look like a person relating with a person is having
an effect. But it&rsquo;s not.

The meanings you have given to those looks are constituted of mutually
agreed upon definitions. And those definitions are causing you to
experience certain perceptions. When the look, the shrug of the
shoulder, the tone in the voice in itself had no meaning whatsoever and
could, by virtue of mutual agreements, mean something entirely
different.

If the practice of mutual agreements, not behaviors between persons, but
the practice of mutual agreements constitutes a special relationship,
then what constitutes the dissolving of a special relationship?

Well, it&rsquo;s simple. And I told it to Susan the other day. Waking up
or breaking the special relationship is accomplished by standing right
in the middle of mutual agreements and disagreeing.

You usually think of the word, &ldquo;disagreement&rdquo; as being
disagreeable and bad&mdash;negative. But a disagreement is the way you
break an agreement. You see?

Waking up is going to be a little bit more involved than you might have
thought because you&rsquo;re going to have to be willing to do the
two-step. You&rsquo;re going to have to be willing to practice the holy
instant and say, &ldquo;Father or Holy Spirit, what is the truth
here?&rdquo; And listen for it and then be from that clarity. And when
you&rsquo;re being from that reconnection with your Source, what you are
involved in is not a special relationship because your behavior is not
arising out of mutual agreements and in fact will constitute a
disagreement which has the ultimate effect of breaking a mutual
agreement and therefore, a special relationship.

This is important to understand. Special relationships are constituted
of structures of mutual agreements.

Write that down: Special relationships are constituted of structures of
mutual agreements.

Waking up will be disagreeing with those mutual
agreements&mdash;breaking the mutual agreements&mdash;breaking them not
for the purpose of substituting them with a new mutual agreement, but by
bringing into play the clarity that comes from one&rsquo;s connection to
his or her Source, one&rsquo;s remembrance of his or her divinity and
the willingness to be from there which does constitute being in
disagreement with the mutual agreements that are in practice, in play.

Now, let&rsquo;s go into the Book here. Last week we ended with this
sentence:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is a way in which the Holy Spirit asks your help, if you would
have His.1
</div>

Now we&rsquo;re talking about accessing one&rsquo;s freedom
again&mdash;breaking the bondage. And if you want the Holy
Spirit&rsquo;s help, the Holy Spirit asks for your help.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is a way in which the Holy Spirit asks your help, if you would
have His. The holy instant is His most helpful tool in protecting you
from the attraction of guilt, the real lure in the special relationship.
</div>

Now, if any relationship you&rsquo;re in is occurring without your
conscious experience of your divinity, of your connection with your
Father, then no matter whether it&rsquo;s a pleasant experience or an
unpleasant experience, it is a special relationship and constitutes
bondage that you need freedom from&mdash;that you need release from. And
as we also talked about last week, if you want release, you must release
others whom you keep in bondage. And the Holy Spirit helps you but asks
something of you: The two-step, the holy instant.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The holy instant is His most helpful tool in protecting you from the
attraction of guilt, the real lure in the special relationship. You do
not recognize that this IS its real appeal, for the ego has taught you
that FREEDOM lies in it.
</div>

See? The very thing we&rsquo;re talking about your experiencing:
Freedom. But what is freedom? Freedom is Love. Love is the absence of
special relationships. Love is the absence of exclusivity. Love is
embrace&mdash;wholeness. You see?

Now that means that whether you&rsquo;re having a happy day, a pleasant
day, a pleasant time with others or not, guilt is in play. And when we
talk about guilt, when this is brought up, it doesn&rsquo;t make you
feel happy or comfortable. You would rather that we hurried on through
the Book and gotten past this so we could get to something inspiring
&hellip; right?

But do not be afraid to look. It&rsquo;s important to see how guilt
works. You see, the means by which you enforce&hellip; the means by
which everyone enforces mutual agreements, is by employing the threat of
guilt and the consequence of guilt if one violates the mutual
agreements.

Guilt is the means by which the enforcement of the imagined good that is
to come from a special relationship is effected. You see?

Now, you know, if you&rsquo;re being honest with yourselves, that there
are times when you do employ guilt to manipulate others to get them to
do what you need them to do so you&rsquo;ll be comfortable and you know
there are times that others employ guilt to control you. But you know
we&rsquo;re talking about freedom, aren&rsquo;t we.  And when you pulled
the plug, so to speak, when the Light that you Are pulled the plug from
the Socket and you lost your Light &hellip;

(I&rsquo;m sorry, this is me, Paul, I lost it there &hellip; just a
moment &hellip;)

&hellip; you began to use the mutual agreements as a way of creating a
sense of comfort and a sense of worth in yourself and in others. And so
guilt became the means by which you secured your comfort or your
recognition as being a worthwhile presence.  Guilt is always in play.
You use it on others&mdash;others use it on you. Most of the time,
it&rsquo;s direct. You exert it over another for an effect.

But when you lost your connection with your Father, you lost your
feeling of wholeness&mdash;you lost your feeling of competence. And
that&rsquo;s why you use guilt and special relationships to compensate
for it.

Now, there&rsquo;s a way that you use guilt when you feel overwhelmed
that doesn&rsquo;t feel to you as though it&rsquo;s the employment of
guilt: When you&rsquo;re feeling overwhelmed and incompetent, you are
feeling as though you are in a position of powerlessness in which you
cannot accomplish that which needs to be accomplished, that which is
worthwhile, that which is helpful, that which solves a problem, and you
feel overwhelmed by the situation and your powerlessness in the face of
it. And then in the absence of the freedom that you so dearly need to
feel, someone you&rsquo;re in relationship with says something to you
and you twist what that person has said so that even if they were
listening to Guidance, even if they were joined with the Father or the
Holy Spirit, you will hear what they&rsquo;re saying as convicting you
of your guilt.

And so you get angry at them and you try to side-track them from the
truth that they may be saying by engaging them in defending themselves
against your projection upon them of an act that is intended to make you
feel guilty.

Now, this is really isn&rsquo;t as complicated as it might sound. You
are feeling overwhelmed, you are feeling incompetent, and you are
feeling guilty because you&rsquo;re not being able to do what you should
be able to do, you&rsquo;re not being able to behave in a way that makes
you feel good about yourself.

Now, if someone is trying to help you move out of that space and is
pointing out to you that you are not accomplishing what needs to be
accomplished, but that it&rsquo;s because you&rsquo;re not joining with
the Holy Spirit &hellip; in other words, if this partner or this other
one in your relationship is helping you to look at the very thing
we&rsquo;re doing tonight, the meaning of guilt, rather than glossing it
over, you use that as an opportunity to get upset with that person and
sidetrack the issue, sidetrack the Guidance, sidetrack the positive
direction that&rsquo;s being given, so that just as those of you would
like to get to the end of the Book and not deal with this, you, in this
relationship with your partner, can avoid having to look at what you
need to look at. So you suggest that that one is being mean-spirited and
trying to inflict guilt upon you and make you feel bad.

And why are you doing it? So that you can get to the experience of
freedom which means, so that you can side-track the issue from looking
at what needs to be looked at and correcting it, and going off on a
tangent&mdash;a tangent that has to do with proving to this other one
that they are being unloving and trying to lay guilt upon you.

That is not too complex to understand.

The intent to use guilt to gain freedom can be done directly or
indirectly&mdash;and is. Now you must be very careful when you are
feeling overwhelmed that you not use every opportunity that comes up to
point the finger at others and say they are making you feel guilty,
because you will do it to engage them in a fight that will distract you
from looking at the very thing that may cause an [snaps fingers]
&ldquo;A-ha!&rdquo; and bring clarity into your mind and free you.

Always you use guilt for the purpose of gaining freedom from guilt you
are convicting yourself of, because you are feeling incompetent and
unable to do what needs to be done in order to bring you into the
experience that would equal knowing that you&rsquo;re the Son or
Daughter of God with the full conscious experience of it. That&rsquo;s
what all of you are after. You&rsquo;re after the original experience of
You as the Son or Daughter of God. But you&rsquo;re trying to do it
without connecting with your Father.

Simply put: The use of guilt always feels like the simplest way to get
freedom from distress, to get freedom from the guilt trip you&rsquo;re
laying upon yourself by distracting you from it and getting into a fight
with the one you&rsquo;re in relationship with. Stop it! Notice it!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You do not recognize that this &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; guilt &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; IS its real appeal&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the real appeal of the special relationship is guilt &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; for the ego has taught you that FREEDOM lies in it.
</div>

Freedom from what? Freedom from looking at what you have to look at.
Freedom from acknowledging where you&rsquo;re goofing up. Freedom from
acknowledging that in this particular moment in your experience of
incompetence and fear and guilt, you&rsquo;re called upon to do what
actually changes things: Remember your Father &hellip; and say,
&ldquo;Father, what&rsquo;s the truth here? Father, I want to hear Your
Voice. Father, I want Your Perspective. I want to do the one thing that
will undo the special relationship that is binding me.&rdquo;  And the
one thing that will do that is you joining with the Father before you
join in relationship with your fellowman. Because when you do that, as I
said, you will join with your fellowman minus the structures of mutual
agreements that you&rsquo;ve been using against each other and which
have constituted the absence of Love and therefore, have constituted the
absence of Freedom.

Again:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You do not recognize that this IS its real appeal, for the ego has
taught you that FREEDOM lies in it. Yet the closer you look at the
special relationship, the more apparent it becomes that it MUST foster
guilt and therefore MUST imprison.
</div>

You see? I want you to be willing to look at the possibility &hellip;
I&rsquo;m telling you it&rsquo;s the fact, but let&rsquo;s gentle it a
little bit and say, look at the possibility that even when you&rsquo;re
having a pleasant experience, even when you appear to be doing
everything that&rsquo;s friendly and supportive and kind, et cetera, if
you&rsquo;re not doing it hand-in-hand with the Father, where the
Father&rsquo;s Perspective is reflecting to you the truth about
everything you&rsquo;re relating to, then you&rsquo;re in a special
relationship and guilt is part and parcel of it. And the kindness is
calculated to cause you to find a way to believe that you&rsquo;re
feeling good when you&rsquo;re not. That you are succeeding in becoming
a real boy or a real girl instead of a puppet. You see? . . without
being connected to your Father.

Now, continuing:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The special relationship is totally without meaning without a body.
</div>

You see? I mentioned earlier that a special relationship is believed to
be something that goes on between persons. And what does that really
mean? It means between this person here: two-arms, two-legs, a head. And
this person here: two-arms, two-legs, a head, a body. You see? . . that
a special relationship is going on between bodies.

So&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The special relationship is totally without meaning without a body. And
if you value it, you must ALSO value the body. And what you value you
WILL keep.
</div>

You won&rsquo;t let go of it, you won&rsquo;t let it be released. You
won&rsquo;t let others be released from it and you won&rsquo;t release
yourself from it, because you value it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The special relationship is a device for limiting Your self to a body,
and for limiting your perception of others to THEIRS.
</div>

You see? &ldquo;You over there in that shape, have an obligation to me
over here in this shape and we must behave this way toward each other or
I will employ guilt in whatever means of control I can to bring you into
line &hellip; you, that shape over there.&rdquo; But see, special
relationships aren&rsquo;t between shapes. Special relationships are the
structures of mutual definitions that are employed as that which gives
meaning to all actions and all things that you engage in.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The special relationship is a device for limiting Your self &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; two words &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; Your self to a body, and for limiting your perception of others
to THEIRS. The great rays would establish the total LACK of value of the
special relationship, if they were seen. For in seeing them, the body
would disappear because its VALUE would be lost.
</div>

Now it&rsquo;s very important to understand this. The great rays are the
fundamental meanings of Being. You could perhaps, call them the
fundamental energies of Being. They can be identified as: Life, Truth,
Love, Principle, Soul, Mind and Spirit. These are Meanings. These are
Meanings that are embodied in every aspect of Creation.

Now, in moments of illumination&mdash;which many of you have had without
totally Waking up&mdash;you may well have experienced looking at an
object and having your experience transformed so that the object, which
we&rsquo;ll say, is an inanimate object, becomes an experience of Living
Love. It&rsquo;s like that object is illuminated with Meaning of
divinity, where it&rsquo;s clear that what you&rsquo;re experiencing
right there is the Father, and that the substance of it is Love, and
that it&rsquo;s Loving you, and that it is part of you even though
it&rsquo;s a distinct experience that you might say seems to be separate
from you, at least it&rsquo;s not confusing to you&mdash;that it is It,
and you are You, all of It, You and It are One and it&rsquo;s all Love.

When that experience of Meaning occurs, the object as you&rsquo;ve
experienced it disappears.

How you had defined it becomes utterly inconsequential in the face of
the experience of the Movement and Presence of God that is infilling you
at that moment. It has Meaning entirely separate and apart from your
best and worst definitions&mdash;mutually agreed upon definitions. The
object doesn&rsquo;t disappear, but it&rsquo;s finite meaning does. And
instead of appearing to be a rock or a vase, it&rsquo;s an experience of
the Presence of God illuminating you. It&rsquo;s God, not a rock god,
but God Himself Being the Presence that you had defined as a rock and
given other meanings to.

The great rays, when their meanings become obvious to you in Creation
which you had defined as matter, will cause the material
universe&mdash;all the structures of definitions that you had
created&mdash;it will cause them to, like, vanish in the face of the
overwhelming awesome experience of Reality, with a capital
&ldquo;R.&rdquo;

And so, yes, you could say that the body disappears. The rock as a
composite of minerals or an aggregate of minerals, et cetera, becomes so
meaningless, so empty of meaning in the face of the experience of Love
that is being exchanged and which is identified as Oneness, with
infinite expression that, indeed, the rock disappeared &hellip; God
appeared &hellip; Reality appeared right there. You see? This is
important.

Do you see? The value here is that in your willingness to abandon
special relationships, you are willing to abandon identification with
form or body. And it constitutes a release of bondage because
you&rsquo;re able to say, &ldquo;Wow, special relationships aren&rsquo;t
something between me and so-and-so. Special relationships are the
intertwined definitions that we have decided to employ with each other.
They&rsquo;re head-trips, not actualities, not us. You see?

And in that realization the definitions become released from all of the
emotions of persons that you&rsquo;ve been employing. And healing can
occur between you and the one you were having a special relationship
with. You see?

And the opportunity for everything about the forms of you and the one
you&rsquo;re in relationship, has the opportunity to begin to register
with you as Love &hellip; Love embodied, you might say&hellip; Love
being, radiating, embracing, including you with the awareness that the
same thing is going on, you could say, in reverse&mdash;a Oneness of
infinity, where all of the little details of persons vanish in the
awesomeness of God, in the awesomeness of what Love really is. And it
provides the opportunity for both of you to [snaps fingers] Wake up. You
see?

So&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The special relationship is a device for limiting Your self to a body,
and for limiting your perception of others to THEIRS. The great rays
would establish the total LACK of value of the special relationship, if
they were seen.
</div>

If you have a glimpse of the great rays or just one of them, it
establishes for you the total lack of value of the special relationship,
of the way you&rsquo;ve chosen to be together unconscious of your
Source, and therefore, unconscious of the awesomeness of the Son or
Daughter of God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The great rays would establish the total LACK of value of the special
relationship, if they were seen. For in seeing them, the body would
disappear because its VALUE would be lost.
</div>

Your misunderstanding of what the body is would disappear because the
value you were giving to the structures of mutual definitions that
constituted your misunderstanding would vanish. They would simply be
meaningless in face of the experience of the Presence of God that feels
like Love unified and unifying.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And so your whole investment in seeing it &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; with misunderstanding &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; would be withdrawn from it. You see the world you VALUE.
</div>

It will be very helpful for you to remember that a special relationship
is not something that occurs between persons. Special relationships are
the structures of mutual agreements that are being employed to give
meaning to everything that already has infinite Meaning, because
everything is already the Kingdom of Heaven, everything is already
Creation as God is Being It.

And so, it&rsquo;s the abandonment&hellip; the willingness to abandon
the mutual agreements, the head-trips.

This is, at one and the same time, very simple and very important. And
don&rsquo;t let your ego try to tell you that this is too complicated
[chuckles] to understand. Because the simple fact is that all of you
employ it everyday to one degree or another. And that&rsquo;s where the
honesty comes in.

Now, be careful, because you could sit there and say, &ldquo;Well, Raj,
you&rsquo;re trying to make me feel guilty. You&rsquo;re telling me that
all of my relationships are special relationships. You&rsquo;re telling
me that I&rsquo;m on the wrong track. You&rsquo;re trying to making me
feel bad. You&rsquo;re trying to depress me. You&rsquo;re trying to get
me to look at something that can&rsquo;t possibly benefit me in any
way.&rdquo; You see? And you would if you could divert me from the
simplicity that I&rsquo;m sharing with you that would release you,
because it feels like freedom to not have to move in a direction where
you&rsquo;re having to look at flaws in yourself.

Well, the simple answer is, that I&rsquo;m pointing you in the direction
of the holy instant, which is the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s most helpful tool
in protecting you from the attraction of guilt&mdash;the real lure in
the special relationship. I&rsquo;m pointing you in the direction of the
holy instant&mdash;the practice of the two-step&mdash;so that you
don&rsquo;t have to try to make me guilty of making you feel guilty by
pointing out your flaws. I&rsquo;m not pointing out your flaws. You see?

The special relationship isn&rsquo;t between persons. It&rsquo;s all in
the head-trip. And I&rsquo;m speaking to you as my Brother, my Sister,
as your Brother for the purpose of getting you to not get sidetracked
yourself by trying to make me or anyone else guilty and instead hesitate
&hellip; hesitate &hellip; shut up &hellip; and in the silence abandon
your commitment to your feeling of overwhelm and your feeling of guilt
that you&rsquo;re laying on yourself for not being able to be as
competent as you ought to be, and have you ask, &ldquo;Father, what is
the truth here? Holy Spirit&mdash;that which is nothing more than my
right Mind&mdash;what is the truth here? I care to join with That which
Knows.&rdquo; You see?

So, this coming week don&rsquo;t go on a witch hunt to find all the
places where you are doing this awful thing called, &ldquo;practicing a
special relationship&rdquo; and being an awful representative of
Creation. No, rather use your time to remember to practice the holy
instant. It&rsquo;s the way you ask the Holy Spirit for help, by helping
Him&mdash;you help the Holy Spirit by bringing your attention to Him.
You help that which is nothing more than your right Mind, by bringing
your attention to It &hellip; you see? . . and instead of insisting upon
your own private mind that you and another have agreed to practice
together, as though it could really be done with commitment. You see?

Let this be a grand week. Don&rsquo;t be afraid to look at what
doesn&rsquo;t work so that you can acknowledge that it doesn&rsquo;t
work and so that you might realize you are really not interested in
engaging in what doesn&rsquo;t work. And therefore, you are willing to
do something different, instead of trying to make guilty the one who is
pointing out the something different that would free you.

And I look forward to being with you next week.

[^1]: T16.6 The Bridge to the Real World

