---
title: Dec 4, 2010
ref: "T16.6 The Bridge to the Real World"
alink: "/acim/text/16/chap1606/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

We&rsquo;re really at an important juncture in the teaching in A Course
In Miracles, because you&rsquo;re beginning to grasp (because I&rsquo;m
sharing it with you) the fact that special relationships aren&rsquo;t
between persons. That special relationships lie between the
multi-leveled complex structures of definitions that have been concocted
by those who are not in touch with who they Are or their Source and, as
a result, are being governed by the chaos that comes from operating out
of ignorance.

Why is this important?

It&rsquo;s important because if you&rsquo;re going to work on special
relationships, you don&rsquo;t want to miss the point by working on each
other. You see?

&ldquo;Oh-h, let&rsquo;s work on our special relationship. Oh-h,
let&rsquo;s develop a holy relationship. And we can point out to each
other where the flaws are in our special relationship &hellip; we
don&rsquo;t want to have a special relationship.&rdquo;

And you see, it seems like because there&rsquo;s dialogue going on and
there&rsquo;s involvement going on between you and whoever it is
you&rsquo;re going to work with to get rid of your special
relationships, that you&rsquo;re doing something, when you&rsquo;re
simply bumbling around still within the special relationship and
absolutely nothing is happening to free you from it.

The reason is, you&rsquo;re working on the wrong thing. You see?

Many individuals have spent a number of years working on their special
relationship and translating it into a holy relationship and all the
time they&rsquo;re doing it with each other. I mean by that, that they
are finessing each other, they are manipulating each other according to
their best current concepts of what constitutes a holy relationship. But
you see, the best current concepts of a holy relationship are still
definitions or meanings that have been concocted by those who are not in
touch with their Source and who are unaware of who and what they truly
Are. You see?

It&rsquo;s time for the delay caused by working on the wrong things to
be abandoned. And the way they are abandoned is by engaging in what
works.

And so if you want to work on special relationships, stop letting your
partner&mdash;stop letting the other or others that you are in
relationships with&mdash;stop letting them be the focus of your
attention. You see?

What will get you out of the effects of special relationships is to
abandon what causes them. And what causes them are definitions and
meanings that you have given to everything that stand opaquely in the
way of your discerning what is really there covered over by the
definition and meaning you&rsquo;ve applied to it.

It&rsquo;s an inside job because the special relationships are a
head-trip.

Now you have negative affects in your relationships with others as a
result of behaving on the basis of ignorance rather than a Real
connection with each other. And so it does seem as though you or the
other one are causing the problems. And that&rsquo;s why you need to
work on each other. It&rsquo;s very misleading.

So, if you want to work on abandoning the special
relationships&mdash;I&rsquo;m going to say, the uncomfortable,
impractical unfulfilling relationships&mdash;you&rsquo;re having with
others, you&rsquo;ve got to back off from them and go within.

Now don&rsquo;t go within and start examining things and analyzing them,
because this will still be a private process. It will not be a process
in which union is occurring, or reunion is occurring. It is not the
result of the two-step, where you abandon your isolation and you say,
&ldquo;Father what is the truth here?&rdquo; or &ldquo;Holy Spirit, what
is the truth here? That which is nothing more than my right Mind, what
is the truth here?&rdquo; You see? That&rsquo;s when you break the
isolation. That&rsquo;s when you abandon the arena in which all of the
definitions were developed and in which agreements with others to abide
by them occurred.

In that abandonment of your privacy, your separation, not from your
Brothers and Sisters, but from your Source&mdash;from your
Father&mdash;in that abandonment you experience the holy instant. And
you&rsquo;re in a position where you experience the influx of the
Father&rsquo;s Perspective, which is your true perspective.

From that new connected unified vantage point, you will relate to your
Brothers and Sisters in a way that is free of the special relationship.
You will relate to your Brothers and Sisters in the context of the holy
relationship. But it won&rsquo;t be a holy relationship that is
fulfilling concepts or definitions you think define a holy relationship.

The holy relationship will be the result of your Knowing the truth right
in your inter-actions with your Brothers and Sisters, and in fact, with
all Creation which you are in relationship with.

Now, do you realize that since this is the case, there is nothing
&hellip; there is literally nothing that stands in the way of your
Waking up. You don&rsquo;t have to wait for your Brother or Sister to do
anything. They don&rsquo;t have to change. You can at any moment say,
&ldquo;Father, speak to me &hellip; Holy Spirit speak to me &hellip; any
one of the Awakened Brothers, speak to me&rdquo; and you can make the
connection. You can experience the union as a living conscious
experience. You see?

And your Brother won&rsquo;t have had to change. And you won&rsquo;t
have had to try to change your Brother. All you will have needed to do
is go within and abandon your aloneness. That brings you into the
conscious experience of God&rsquo;s laws prevailing, of God&rsquo;s
Perspective being the uninterruptible conscious experience you are
having.

And it&rsquo;s like pushing the first domino in a long line of dominoes
&hellip; and you didn&rsquo;t even touch a domino. You just stopped
doing what held the dominoes up. You were willing to abandon your best
judgments, your pet peeves, your greatest habitual fears, your personal
private unique style of playing &ldquo;poor me&rdquo; because all
orphans play &ldquo;poor me.&rdquo;

If you&rsquo;re not Awake, you&rsquo;re playing &ldquo;poor
me&rdquo;&mdash;one way or another. If you weren&rsquo;t playing
&ldquo;poor me,&rdquo; you would Wake up and find yourself experiencing
the fullness of Being empowered, you might say, to exist without fear
ever again &hellip; you see? . . without ever feeling poor, without ever
having to manipulate others by playing &ldquo;poor me.&rdquo;

So this holy instant that we&rsquo;ve been talking about which is the
means of abandoning the special relationships, is the bottom line
important topic, subject, practice&mdash;whatever you want to call
it&mdash;that the Course teaches.

Let&rsquo;s go into the Book and I am going to back up one sentence from
what I announced:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You see the world you VALUE.[^1]
</div>

You value playing, &ldquo;poor me.&rdquo; You see the world through the
eyes of a &ldquo;poor me.&rdquo; And you play all the games that a poor
orphan plays. And you play those games with gusto! And you hold others
to playing those games with gusto. And you require everyone that you
have special agreements with to abide by them and not violate them. And
you&rsquo;re constantly busy manipulating others or being afraid of
them.

That&rsquo;s the miserable state of existence of an orphan &hellip; of a
&ldquo;poor me&rdquo; &hellip; of one who has forgotten who he Is
&hellip; doesn&rsquo;t realize he&rsquo;s part of a family, a divine
family which has absolute cohesiveness&mdash;every part with every other
part. All of the details, all of the miniscule awesome aspects of
Creation, they constitute a family that every one of you are inseparable
from.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You see the world you VALUE.
</div>

Now, do you value the truth? As we discussed last week, are you willing
to abandon everything else and go for the truth because the truth means
more to you than anything else? Well, not so far.

But it&rsquo;s time for that shift to occur. It&rsquo;s time for
commitment to that to occur. It&rsquo;s time for you to decide that
it&rsquo;s more meaningful to inquire as to what the truth is and bring
your full attention to the answer to it that will be forthcoming because
you are desiring it and the Father withholds nothing of what He is from
His Creation.

You need to simply become willing to do that instead of anything else.
It&rsquo;s a simple thing. But you&rsquo;re addicted to thinking fearful
thoughts. You&rsquo;re addicted to that which produces anxiety.
You&rsquo;re addicted to that which gives an emotional high while
you&rsquo;re unconscious. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
On this side of the bridge, you see the world of separate bodies,
seeking to join each other in separate unions&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in other words, &ldquo;poor little separated me wants to join
with poor little separated you, and us two poor little separated
entities can join together in a bond that makes us one.&rdquo; You see?
Sounds good, but not the way I said it. But the way you perceive it and
the way you approach it sounds good &hellip; and the promise you have
imagined is there, makes it seem worthwhile going for. But &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
On this side of the bridge, you see the world of separate bodies,
seeking to join each other in separate unions, and to become one by
losing &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; losing how? Losing by still not remembering who you Are and
still not joining with your Source that would uncover to you your
already existing wholeness and divinity that doesn&rsquo;t need to be
arrived at through any process engaged in by &ldquo;two little poor
orphans.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When TWO individuals seek to become one, they are trying to DECREASE
their magnitude.
</div>

How? You decrease your magnitude by magnifying your tininess:
&ldquo;Poor little me joining with poor little you &hellip; you know
&hellip; us two poor little things are gonna make something of ourselves
out of tininess &hellip;&rdquo; But with great hope and great faith and
great trust and great willingness that really amounts to willfulness to
accomplish what can&rsquo;t be accomplished.

So, putting all that effort into making incompleteness more complete by
joining it with more incompleteness is insane and useless.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When TWO individuals seek to become one, they are trying to DECREASE
their magnitude. Each would deny his power&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you see &hellip; the power of the Presence of God that
constitutes them.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Each would deny his power, for the SEPARATE union excludes the universe.
</div>

&ldquo;Poor little me over here and the big universe over there &hellip;
poor little me over here gonna join poor little you over there
&hellip;&rdquo; You see? &ldquo;&hellip; and we&rsquo;ll stand up to the
whole world if we have to!&rdquo; You see? No unity. It excludes the
universe.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Far more is left outside than would be taken in. For God is left
without&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; outside. You know? &ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;d rather do it my
way. Father, I&rsquo;d rather define things myself.&rdquo; So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; God is left without and NOTHING taken in, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; at least not yet. Littleness, trying to join with littleness
and make littleness a better experience. No interest in or attempt to
abandon littleness.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If ONE such union were made &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; here&rsquo;s the key words &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; in perfect faith, the universe WOULD enter into it. Yet the
special relationship which the ego seeks does not include even one whole
individual.
</div>

You see? That&rsquo;s why you can&rsquo;t work on each other.
That&rsquo;s why the special relationship isn&rsquo;t between
individuals. You see?

But when you hesitate and do the two-step and enter into the holy
instant and desire to know the truth and it&rsquo;s revealed to you,
your wholeness is revealed to you, the Presence of God is experienced in
you as You. And you&rsquo;re not at all confused. You don&rsquo;t
suddenly think, &ldquo;Oh, little me is God!&rdquo; No. It&rsquo;s like,
&ldquo;Oh, God is all there is of me &hellip; the awesomeness and
allness of God, wow! &hellip;constitutes the wholeness of me. Man, I&rsquo;m
happy to defer to the awareness that God is all that is here Being all
that is here &hellip; where I used to say, &ldquo;It was just poor
little me joining with poor little you &hellip;&rdquo; You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet the special relationship which the ego seeks does not include even
one whole individual. For the ego wants but PART of him, and sees ONLY
this part and nothing else.
</div>

You see? What&rsquo;s the part of him that the ego wants to see?
It&rsquo;s the part that has nothing to do with God. It&rsquo;s the part
that seems to be an independent agent, fully empowered to become
something on his or her own in his or her own right. You see?
That&rsquo;s the part.

&ldquo;Oh, don&rsquo;t talk to me about my being connected to God,
don&rsquo;t talk about yourself being connected with God &hellip;
don&rsquo;t give me any of that holy shit! That doesn&rsquo;t fit,
that&rsquo;s not practical &hellip; that isn&rsquo;t going to help me
become a success in the world.&rdquo;

You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; God is left without and NOTHING taken in, &hellip;

[For] the ego wants but PART of him, and sees ONLY this part and nothing
else.
</div>

Now, we&rsquo;ve just talked about what it&rsquo;s like on this side of
the bridge. And you could say, that the bridge is your decision to get a
divorce from the Father, or your decision to attempt to exist in your
own right all by yourself. You see, that&rsquo;s what&rsquo;s being
abandoned here.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Across the bridge, it is so different! For a time the body is still
seen, but not exclusively, as it is seen here.
</div>

Meaning, as you see it now when you experience no union&mdash;no actual
union with God&mdash;on any kind of an ongoing basis. You may have had
momentary glimpses that remain with you that do not ever leave you
feeling actually totally isolated as you had thought you were before the
experience. And the experience will never leave you feeling unconscious
of your divinity, or of the fact that God&rsquo;s Love embraces you
unconditionally.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For a time the body is still seen, but not exclusively&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning, not absolutely separated off from everything else,
being unlike everything else, being itself in its own right. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For a time the body is still seen, but not exclusively, as it is seen
here.
</div>

When you have the experience, the insight, the revelation of the
Presence of God right where you are, or right where any object is in
your experience, as I said last week, God appears. It&rsquo;s clear to
you that what&rsquo;s there is God in all the fullness of the Meaning
that embodies and expresses God fully. And what you thought it was
escapes your mind, the definitions you had given it that were so limited
and which were as fearsome as the fear with which you looked at it
disappears because you&rsquo;re having a new experience of it. You are
not having an experience of it disappearing, of it vanishing, but the
small minded way in which you had been experiencing it does
vanish&mdash;subsumed by and fully infinitely expressive of all the
wholeness and fullness of God, no matter how small it seems to be.
It&rsquo;s whole and it&rsquo;s also inseparable from you. It&rsquo;s
part of you and you are part of it because Creation is One even though
it is infinite in expression.

So: 

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For a time the body is still seen&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; for a time you can still see what you had been defining it as.
For awhile it still has an afterimage, you might say, of the overlay
that you had applied to it&mdash;or that you had applied to something
else. The overlay you had applied to it and perhaps the way you had felt
about it will still linger as it fades. But what you&rsquo;re looking at
with the new experience is what you had been looking at but now seen not
through a glass darkly, with the scales having fallen from your eyes.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For a time the body is still seen, but not exclusively, as it is seen
here.
</div>

&hellip; or now.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For the little spark which holds the great rays within it is ALSO
visible, and this spark cannot be limited long to littleness.
</div>

The experience of God there cannot long remain without completely
devaluing the definitions you had been using and applying to it. You
see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Once you have crossed the bridge&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; once you&rsquo;ve engaged in the holy instant, once
you&rsquo;ve said, &ldquo;Father, what is the truth here? . . &rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the value of the body &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the definitions and meanings you had applied to it &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is so diminished in your sight, that you will see no need at
all to &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; What?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; to magnify it.
</div>

&hellip; to make something out of it &hellip;to make it better, bigger,
greater, more effective, stronger, a better agent for manipulation and
control. You will see no need to magnify it. It simply isn&rsquo;t there
for that reason, or those reasons, even though you had used it for those
reasons.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For you will realize that the only value which the body has &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; as a separate thing, as an isolated thing amongst other
isolated things, which it never has been &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you will realize that the only value which the body has is to
enable you to bring your brothers to the bridge WITH you, and to be
released TOGETHER there.
</div>

Okay, what does that mean? It means that the only value the body can
have &hellip; no, the only value the definitions of the body can
have&mdash;the definitions you&rsquo;ve made up and everyone else has
made up about it&mdash;is to provide a point of connection with another
at the moment when you are experiencing the holy instant, so that in
that experience and the spontaneous expression of truth that you are
experiencing can be communicated, so that the very thing that I&rsquo;m
doing right now can occur.

And the fact that there are not individuals or persons engaged in
special relationships can register. And you can see that the special
relationships are, as I am saying, nothing more than complex
arrangements of meanings and definitions that you&rsquo;ve made up and
agreed to abide by.

That can be popped like a bubble!

And the two of you can enjoy the result of having done what works
&hellip; abandoning the inner intent to believe in and operate according
to made up definitions and meanings in favor of going into the Living
moment of union with the Father, in which in that moment you are
experiencing, I&rsquo;m going to say, the current Perspective of the
Father, the current awareness of the current divinity of all of
Creation. You see? But you must be willing to get out of linear
processes and let yourself into the Movement of Being in its
spontaneity. You must be willing to abandon control so you can
participate in the Movement of Creation in which everything that happens
is a surprise.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The bridge itself &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; here&rsquo;s the key.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The bridge itself is nothing more than a transition in your perspective
of reality.

&hellip; a transition in your perspective &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you already are the Sons and Daughters of God. You already are
the incredible Presence of God. You already are divine. You already are
incapable of sin, disease and death and everything that seems to
accompany them.

And what you divinely Are is present at each moment as long as time
seems to be in play, at each moment to be perceived as instantaneous
healing, instantaneous transformation of everything you&rsquo;re in
relationship with, whether it&rsquo;s what you call the body or a table
or a glass or a nose or a tree. And suddenly God will appear and
you&rsquo;ll understand what a tree Is, and you will understand what
your Brother Is. And you will feel the true meaning of God right there
in those things that you had poorly defined as the effect of
Godlessness&mdash;the effect of the absence of God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The bridge itself is nothing more than a transition in your perspective
of reality. On this side, everything you see is grossly distorted and
completely out of perspective.
</div>

You don&rsquo;t think it is because you think it&rsquo;s normal to be
born, to grow up, to have problems, to experience diseases and hopefully
survive them and ultimately to begin to get old and die. You don&rsquo;t
think that&rsquo;s completely out of perspective because you think
that&rsquo;s the way it is. And I&rsquo;m telling you it&rsquo;s not.
That&rsquo;s not the way it is. There is an alternative. There is an
absolute truth that is the nonexistence of this &ldquo;out of
perspective vision&rdquo; you&rsquo;re all suffering from. And you need
to stop blindly, ignorantly accepting the status-quo. That&rsquo;s what
the holy instant is for. It&rsquo;s your means of stepping out of
ignorance, truly &hellip; really changing, experiencing transformation.
It&rsquo;s that simple.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What is little and insignificant is magnified&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; on this side of the bridge &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and what is strong and powerful cut down to littleness.
</div>

What can you expect when you&rsquo;ve abandoned the infinite of your
Being by saying, &ldquo;Father, I want a divorce &hellip; I am going to
become an orphan?&rdquo;

Now:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In the transition &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; as you do the two-step, as you make the connection, as you
experience union and your vision is transformed and what is of value to
you begins to change &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; there is a period of confusion, in which a sense of actual
disorientation seems to occur.
</div>

It&rsquo;s important to understand because otherwise you&rsquo;re likely
to think that something is going wrong and you will stop saying,
&ldquo;Father, what is the truth here?&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
But fear it not, for it means nothing more than that you have been
willing to let go your hold on the distorted frame of reference which
seemed to hold your world together.
</div>

The only reason you hold on to your mutually agreed upon definitions is
because they were developed for the purpose of freeing yourself from
chance, freeing yourself from being the victim of unwanted change. You
see?

And so it &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; seemed to hold your world together.
</div>

And as you stop doing these things that give you control by saying,
&ldquo;Father, aside from my being in control, aside from everything
I&rsquo;ve been doing, aside from everything I&rsquo;ve believed, what
is the truth here? Not just intellectually, &lsquo;What is the truth
here?&rsquo; &hellip;but as an experience, &lsquo;What is the truth
here?&rsquo;&rdquo; And as you abandon your control willingly and let
something else in, you do feel some disorientation and insecurity.

But the question is: Do you value truth? Do you value Reality more than
everything you&rsquo;ve been experiencing? If you do you will persist.
If you do you will persist.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This frame of reference &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the one that seemed to hold your world together &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is built around the special relationship. WITHOUT this
illusion, there can BE no meaning you would still seek here.
</div>

Now: 

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Fear not that you will be abruptly lifted up and hurled into
reality. Time is kind, and if you use if FOR reality, it will keep
gentle pace with you in your transition. The urgency is only in
dislodging your minds from their fixed position here. This will not
leave you homeless, and without a frame of reference.
</div>

It won&rsquo;t!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The period of disorientation, which precedes the actual transition, is
far shorter than the time it took to fix your minds so firmly on
illusions. Delay will hurt you now more than before, only because you
realize it IS delay, and that escape from pain is really possible.
</div>

You know, as this transition occurs it will seem to you as though the
leash is getting shorter, the time between your doing something that
doesn&rsquo;t work and the [snaps fingers] effects of it not working
will seem to be quicker, shorter. You will not seem to be able to do
what is impractical for a long period of time before you&rsquo;re
brought up short.

And so, in some ways it seems unfair. And others are still being able to
do stupid things and you are not. But that&rsquo;s because [chuckling]
you&rsquo;re realizing at some level that the truth is available to you
and that you&rsquo;re experiencing it and that it&rsquo;s more available
to you than ever before because you&rsquo;re not resisting it as much,
and therefore, it&rsquo;s pouring in on you.

What you truly want is actually happening.

You know what? Hang in there. Persist &hellip; because it&rsquo;s the
way it works. It&rsquo;s the way Waking up feels and seems to be.

Now this coming week, I want you to read over what we&rsquo;ve talked
about tonight. It&rsquo;s not discouraging. And you need to be reminded
of the simplicity of this.

You will have feelings of disorientation that don&rsquo;t feel simple.
But when you let go of what you thought gave you balance and you let
yourself lean into that which is your balance, there is going to be some
fear&mdash;what you would call a lack of equilibrium. It&rsquo;s
natural. And it&rsquo;s good. It&rsquo;s good for you to be losing the
faith you have in that which never really gave you balance, as you lean
into that which is your balance because of Who and What you Are.

If these things seem to be hard to look at or not particularly inspiring
or as though they are in some way hard work, don&rsquo;t shy away from
it, because you deserve to be freed from what hasn&rsquo;t been
fulfilling you.

I love you all and I look forward to being with you next week.

The fact is that we are at a point in the teaching where giant strides
can occur, where great release from false bondage can be escaped from
&hellip; can be experienced. Let there be anticipation. Let there be
expectancy. And let there be a willingness to rejoice!

[^1]: T16.6 The Bridge to the Real World

