---
title: Dec 18, 2010
ref: Discussion
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

We&rsquo;re not going to go into the Book tonight. And in fact, our get
together will be relatively brief. But there&rsquo;s something I want to
illuminate for everyone.

There was a sign I observed today that said: &ldquo;The first gift of
Christmas was a Savior.&rdquo; Indeed, it is appropriate, it&rsquo;s on
the mark to recognize that I was and am, a Gift. But it&rsquo;s not
enough to know that. You must also know that you &hellip; and you
&hellip; and you &hellip; and you &hellip; and you &hellip; and all of
you are a Gift.

And what was it about me that made me a Gift? It was the fact that I did
the two-step. It was the fact that I practiced the holy instant. It was
the fact that I constantly said, &ldquo;Father, what is the truth
here?&rdquo; And that is what I gave expression to.

When I did that, God&rsquo;s laws prevailed&mdash;the dead were raised,
the sick were healed, the lame walked, the withered were made whole.

But more than that, I did not join with everyone in their ignorance of
who they were. I did not join with them in the belief that they were
just an organism&mdash;a product of a physical interaction of a sperm
and an egg, a fluke a nature. I did not join with them in that. I did
not join in mutual agreement with their definitions. And I gave Voice to
contrary perspectives. Not just contrary, not just different by design,
but contrary and different because when I opened my mouth, I gave
utterance to the Father&rsquo;s Perspective. I gave utterance to the
Father&rsquo;s Intent in that moment, in that place, relative to myself
and relative to everyone else.

As a result, God&rsquo;s laws prevailed&mdash;transformation occurred.

Again, the most significant teaching, the most significant learning that
occurred as the result of the Gift that I was and the Gift that I gave,
was that much of mankind became significantly and deeply aware of the
fact that they weren&rsquo;t orphans, that indeed, they were the
offspring of a Father, not chance, not happenstance, not evolution, but
a divine God&mdash;the Governor of all, the Creator of all&mdash;and
that as the Sons and Daughters of God, as the offsprings of God, their
Birthright was just like mine and their Birthright was far greater than
their poor concepts allowed them to believe about themselves.

And as a result, they kept themselves bound to lack, limitation, sin,
disease and death.

Now, here it is what is called Christmas time. And you have the
opportunity to be the Gift. You have the opportunity to practice the
holy instant. You have the opportunity to engage in the two-step. But
you know, although the first Gift of Christmas may have been a Savior, a
secondary or by-product type of gift that seems to be associated with
Christmas now, is depression.

In fact, when Christmas is discussed intellectually as a time of year
and as an event, almost always depression is brought up as associated
with that event.

And so what happens? Because it&rsquo;s incorporated into the
conversation about the event of Christmas, a teaching is occurring. And
those who listen, say, &ldquo;Wow, I wasn&rsquo;t aware of that &hellip;
gee, ever since I was little I always had fun with Christmas, but maybe
it&rsquo;s right &hellip;&rdquo;

And so, through insinuation and beliefs being expressed, a mutual
agreement is arrived at. And people thoughtlessly agree, &ldquo;Why yes,
you know, now that I stop and look at everyone, I see that not everyone
is so happy,&rdquo; and you know that people are talking about the
stress of Christmas and, &ldquo;Oh, black Friday shopping,&rdquo; the
horrible shopping day in which the best deals can be gotten, but which
causes depression in the midst of engaging in the act of being
thoughtful and giving. You see? And slowly, in one way or another you
find yourself becoming depressed at Christmas all because of a false
education arising out of ignorance that amounted to a teaching that
formed a mutual agreement.

Well you know what? This year, this Christmas, be disagreeable. Disagree
with that. Disagree with your willingness to indulge in depression. And
don&rsquo;t allow the idea that, &ldquo;the stresses of doing
good&rdquo; are bound to cause you to be depressed and have a miserable
holiday.&rdquo; Disagree! Challenge it! Don&rsquo;t embrace it! And
engage immediately in the two-step.

You want to know something? Depression is never something initiated
within you, by you. Depression is always the result of an invitation
presented to you to agree to something. And what is it that you&rsquo;re
invited to agree with? Another&rsquo;s declaration of his or her misery,
another&rsquo;s invitation to you to understand their problem.

Well, I&rsquo;ll tell you something &hellip; the invitation to
understand a problem is the stickiest wicket you could ever involve
yourself with. It will never constitute part of the correction of a
problem.

Now, on the other hand, I really challenge each and every one of you
this Christmas holiday, this Hanukkah holiday&mdash;this celebration
time of year&mdash;I challenge every one of you not to employ the
invitation of understanding your problem, to someone else. If you are
going to engage with any one else relative to a problem, let it be for
the sole purpose of wanting to get to the correction of the problem, to
get to the answer of the problem.

If you are going to be talking about a problem, let it be entirely in
the context of the dawning in you of the clarity that causes the problem
to become a non-problem, a practice of the two-step that constitutes a
joining with your Father, with your Source, in the act of which you
demonstrate who you Are and what your Birthright is. And as a result of
which, clarity dawns on you that moves you into the area where
God&rsquo;s laws prevail&mdash;into the arena where correction,
transformation, healing occurs.

Do not waste one moment of the rest of this Season trying to get others
to understand your problem. The saying is, &ldquo;misery loves
company.&rdquo; That&rsquo;s just another way of saying, &ldquo;mutual
agreements are the modus operandi of life.&rdquo; You don&rsquo;t want
to be involved with others in a mutual agreement as to a problem and why
it&rsquo;s real, and why you must feel miserable, and why you
can&rsquo;t possibly take any steps to alter the situation because the
misery of it immobilizes you. You see?

When you feel yourself just becoming depressed, don&rsquo;t just accept
it! Don&rsquo;t just say, &ldquo;Oh, I&rsquo;m getting depressed,
it&rsquo;s the stress of the holidays.&rdquo; No! If you find yourself
becoming depressed, [snaps fingers] immediately realize someone is
making an invitation&mdash;you are being invited to understand a problem
and commiserate with that one about it, even though there&rsquo;s been
no outward communication whatsoever. If you realize that it&rsquo;s an
invitation and not an actuality, you won&rsquo;t get sucked into it, and
you will find that the initial stages of depression will simply
dissolve&mdash;they will leave&mdash;because you haven&rsquo;t been
fooled into the distraction of thinking that you&rsquo;re depressed
because you&rsquo;re stressed. You see?

No. You&rsquo;re depressed because someone is inviting you to engage in
an activity you don&rsquo;t want to engage in. You don&rsquo;t want to
engage in the mutual agreement that a circumstance&mdash;a set of
circumstances&mdash;are in actuality depressing and that you have no
choice but to be depressed until the depression lifts. No!

So, I&rsquo;m giving you a big heads-up, because you can spend the rest
of these holidays not suffering from depression, when you realize that
all that&rsquo;s happening is an invitation is extended that you cannot
accept, that you can refuse to accept, that you can write on
&ldquo;return to sender,&rdquo; period, done.

Commiserating with another in a mutual agreement as to the reality of
suffering does not constitute the two-step, and it does not constitute
the practice of the holy instant. And it does not bring into play in you
what was brought into play in me: Which was not to agree, but to
disagree with the mutually agreed upon definitions, and from a
connection with my Father, and you with a connection with your Father,
share the truth. You see? It isn&rsquo;t just a matter of being
disagreeable. You are disagreeing and replacing what you&rsquo;re
disagreeing with, with the clarity of truth.

Put others in the position of practicing the holy instant.

Put others in the position of engaging in the two-step.

Don&rsquo;t just agree with them. Disagree and point them in the right
direction, bring into play that which is healing, whether they follow
through with it or not.

This is a time of gifting. You are the Gift that the Father gives
constantly. Now you be that which makes a constant Gift of the Father.
It&rsquo;s your function and it&rsquo;s the way you Wake up. It&rsquo;s
the simplicity of the Christmas message. And this should be the last
Christmas that any of you spends not knowing who you Are.

I love you all, and I look forward to being with you next time.

