---
title: Jan 20, 2008
ref: "T13.4 The Guarantee of Heaven"
alink: "/acim/text/13/chap1304/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

We need to take a moment tonight to review something that we&rsquo;ve
talked about before. It&rsquo;s something rather important and
it&rsquo;s something that it&rsquo;s easy to forget about.

Imagine, if you will, getting up one morning. It&rsquo;s a day in which
you have woken up feeling good. No stress, nothing looming in your day
to be apprehensive about, you feel downright chipper and happy and you
proceed through your day. And then someone you encounter is very rude,
abrupt with you, unkind toward you, and very challenging and you become
afraid. And you retaliate out of fear.

On the other hand, let&rsquo;s say that you got up on this same day and
you proceeded through your day and at some point a friend of yours
became ill or was faced with an emergency of some sort that you felt
called upon to help that friend with. And so, you became still enough
to listen&mdash;to hear the truth to share for healing purposes.

Now, taking these two scenarios, you could say that as you left home and
went out to proceed through your day, you were just jolly Mary or John,
happy in a very pleasant, practical, alert frame of mind. And as in the
first example, if you ran into someone who was being threatening or
unpleasant or challenging, and it caused you to become afraid, you could
say, &ldquo;Well, at that point, I listened to the voice for fear. I
abandoned my carefree happy pleasant balanced frame of mind and
succumbed to listening to and responding to the voice for fear.

Now, in the second example where a friend had a need that called for you
to share healing clarity, you could say that you were called upon to
listen to the Voice for truth and be out from that place.

And so it could seem as though there are three mental gears if I may put
it that way&mdash;first, second and third, we&rsquo;ll say. No,
we&rsquo;ll say it&rsquo;s first, neutral, and second. Second&mdash;the
neutral gear, is where you&rsquo;re just being yourself. First, is where
you&rsquo;re listening to the Voice for truth. And third is where
you&rsquo;re listening to the voice for fear. All three being different
venues from which you can encounter your day, or be.

Now, the problem is that this is an illusion. That there are three
mental positions is an illusion. There are only two voices. There
isn&rsquo;t the Voice for truth and the voice for fear…and your voice.
There&rsquo;s only the Voice for truth or the voice for fear and the
voice for fear isn&rsquo;t real.

I want to back up:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet no-one sees himself in conflict, and ravaged by a cruel war, unless
he believes that BOTH opponents in the war are real. Believing this he
must escape, for such a war would surely end his peace of mind, and so
destroy him. Yet if he could but realize the war is between forces that
are real and UNREAL powers, he could look upon himself and SEE his
freedom. No-one finds himself ravaged and torn in endless battles which
he HIMSELF perceives as wholly without meaning.[^1]
</div>

You can&rsquo;t have a conflict between something and nothing.

Now, you all tend to believe that there is you and your daily mind. And
from that daily mind&rsquo;s place you can access the Voice for truth,
or you can access the voice for fear. You can be subject to the Voice
for truth that is a result of your listening, or you can be blessed by
the Voice for truth that comes to you from another. Or you can suffer
from the voice for fear that you initiate, or the voice for fear that
others initiate.

And so it would seem that here&rsquo;s you&mdash;neutral
you&mdash;sitting in the middle, placed between the Voice for truth and
the voice for fear; two very real opponents because of course, your
experiences of the voice for fear is very detrimental to you, very
devastating, very unpleasant. But the point is, that one of those voices
isn&rsquo;t real. And so there isn&rsquo;t any tug of war and on top of
it, there is no neutral middle position that is your natural place to be
from.

You are either the Presence of the Voice for truth expressing, or the
voice for fear attempting to be. It&rsquo;s one or the other. So now, it
boils down to the real you and the unreal you, doesn&rsquo;t it? And,
the real you plus the unreal you equals what? The real you. One plus
zero equals one, doesn&rsquo;t it?

Now, why am I bringing this up? I&rsquo;m bringing this up because as we
have been talking about guilt and judgment and the horrors of it, and
the tension of it, and the detrimental destructive nature of it, and
so-on, and you take a look at your experience&mdash;the experience with
the way you treat others and the way others treat you&mdash;it&rsquo;s
very easy to succumb to the idea that your evaluation of another, that
he has in some way injured you, and that makes him guilty of something
that he must pay a penalty for, that process seems to be real and it
seems to be coming from somebody in the neutral gear, in the middle, who
has been impacted by somebody listening to the voice for fear.

But when you say, &ldquo;That one has hurt me and a penalty must be paid
for by him,&rdquo; what you are saying is, that you are unwilling to
listen for the Voice for truth because the Voice for truth would cause
you to find expressions of love&mdash;expressions of respect, and
expressions of, what for lack of better words, I will call principle in
your dealings with this individual so that you don&rsquo;t play into the
ploy, the invitation to get into a struggle and to prove your
self-righteousness&mdash;your righteousness over and against the
other&rsquo;s lack of righteousness.

It becomes easy in the heat of the dynamic of reaction to bad behavior,
to forget that you, yourself, only have two vantage points from which to
look at everything and one of them isn&rsquo;t real; one of them
isn&rsquo;t valid. You forget that the solution lies in making the
choice between the unreal standpoint, and the real standpoint.

Your unwillingness to be the presence of love that may well heal your
brother, because your brother has hurt you, is a conclusion arrived at
from within the arena of the mind expressing the voice for fear.

I promise you, that to whatever degree you value that gear&mdash;third
gear; the voice for fear, you will refuse to be in first gear where
healing can emerge.

You see, what&rsquo;s called for isn&rsquo;t getting justice with this
errant brother, it is in remembering to make the choice for the Voice
for truth in you. And finding that to be more important than any
presentation your brother may be making toward you.

I&rsquo;m also bringing this up because it&rsquo;s easy to forget
whether you&rsquo;re involved in legal matters, or whether you seem to
be involved in medical health matters, it becomes easy to forget that
you have the choice&mdash;you have only two choices and that is to
listen to the Voice for truth in you or the voice for fear in you.

But the tendency is to assume you must listen to the voice for fear in
someone else. If it is a doctor with a negative assessment, you think
you must listen to him or her because they have authority and knowledge
beyond your scope of awareness. And so you say, &ldquo;Oh, Okay,
I&rsquo;m not going to listen to the Voice of truth in me and be from
there, I am going to listen to &ldquo;them&mdash;the authority&rdquo;
and I will let myself be scared shitless by their listening to the voice
for fear in them.

Because I promise you, if they were listening to the Voice for truth in
them, they would not be scaring you and they would not be presenting a
negative picture. They might say there is a need&mdash;they might say
there is a serious need, but here&rsquo;s what we need to do about it,
including you, the husband or wife or relative or friend of the patient.
Here&rsquo;s what we need to do: We need to become still and we need to
abandon the voice for fear that wants to speak up in both of us and we
need to listen for the Voice for truth. Because in listening to the
Voice for truth, we will hear what is needed and we will be able to be
appropriate in terms of actions as well as in terms of our natural
expression of love that won&rsquo;t be impeded by fear if we are valuing
and listening to the Voice for truth.

The reason this is important is, that you really all do have this belief
that you have a life, it just is, it has been since you were born. You
have a life and you can choose to be a good person or you can choose to
be a bad person. You can choose to be spiritual or religious and even
engage in a religious or spiritual vocation. Or you can choose to be
someone who skirts the law and bends the rules to make a profit. Or you
can choose to do neither and just be a somewhat non-descript presence
moving through life&mdash;a benign presence, one that doesn&rsquo;t make 
any waves; doesn&rsquo;t make problems for others and stays, we&rsquo;ll
say, seamlessly peaceful in all your negotiations. So peaceful, that
most people won&rsquo;t even know that you are there.

But you see, you don&rsquo;t have all these options. What I am
teaching, what the Course is illuminating, is the fact that there are
not two powers. There is not a real power and an unreal power.
There&rsquo;s only one. There&rsquo;s only one presence. It is the
presence of life. It is the presence of Being, a verb, not a noun. Not a
being but Being; the action of Being, existing, and it&rsquo;s
indivisible and it is flawless. And because it is indivisible and
therefore embraces nothing unlike itself in any way, what it is Being is
absolutely and infinitely harmonious.

That doesn&rsquo;t mean just the absence of chaos. Harmony, as in music,
is beautiful. It&rsquo;s not just the absence of unpleasantness.
It&rsquo;s not just the absence of inharmony. That which is infinitely
harmonious is infinitely beautiful and is felt by soul&mdash;you each
are soul. You don&rsquo;t have souls. You each are soul embodying soul
that God is. And soul is your capacity to feel the meaning of Creation
and part of the meaning of Creation is harmony. Beautiful, experiential,
awesome harmony.

There is no false you as a real presence for you to overcome. But there
is a real you that you have been ignoring because you have been giving
preference to an imagined self that has the capacity to listen to the
Voice for truth or to listen to the voice for fear and suffer from it.

Reading the last paragraph from the last meeting:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God would not have His Son embattled, and so His Son&rsquo;s imagined
&ldquo;enemy,&rdquo; which he made, is TOTALLY unreal. You are but
trying to escape a bitter war from which you HAVE escaped.
</div>

And last time I said, you are but trying to escape a bitter war in which
you never were. Because God did not ordain it, it didn&rsquo;t exist for
you to experience.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You are but trying to escape a bitter war from which you HAVE escaped.
</div>

Which you were never in.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The war is gone.
</div>

It never was, you see?

And so, when the doctor says, &ldquo;These are the dire circumstances
and these are the predicted results,&rdquo; you need to be alert! And
you need to acknowledge, &ldquo;Wait a minute, no-one&rsquo;s in a war
here, no-one&rsquo;s in a conflict. You can&rsquo;t have a conflict
between God being all and nothing being nothing.&rdquo; And you must use
your mind intelligently by making the choice for listening for the Voice
for truth in you. And you must disagree with the voice for fear no
matter where it is coming from, no matter what lofty position someone is
in who is giving voice to the voice for fear, you cannot afford to
validate it because it&rsquo;s foolishness to validate what cannot be.

And it is transformational, it is healing, and it is Awakening to give
voice to the Voice for truth and to honor It.

You&rsquo;re not used to doing that because you sort of like this safe
little position in neutral where you haven&rsquo;t declared for the
Voice for truth and you haven&rsquo;t declared for the voice for fear.
But what you must remember is, that whether you&rsquo;ve made a
declaration for one or the other, you are giving voice to one or the
other because there is no neutral gear. There&rsquo;s no safe zone where
you are unaccountable, if I may put it that way.

So don&rsquo;t be afraid to give voice to the Voice for truth.
It&rsquo;s your Birthright and it&rsquo;s your function. It&rsquo;s the
way of release from this so-called war going on between two powers.
It&rsquo;s the way of escape from orphan-hood, by you&rsquo;re making
the choice to be the one that you Are, and not the one that you&rsquo;re
not.

The Voice for truth is the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit is your real
Mind. The Holy Spirit is the real you held in trust, untouched and
unchanged, while you imagine that you&rsquo;re an orphan; that
you&rsquo;re an ego; that you&rsquo;re a body; that you&rsquo;re an
organism.

Waking up is you shifting from your sense of identity as an organism; as
a thinker in neutral, to the embrace of the Holy Spirit in you which is
nothing more than your right Mind and shifting your
identity&mdash;letting your identity be consumed by that which is
nothing more than your right Mind. In doing that you abandon neutral
gear and you abandon third gear. And now, there&rsquo;s only first gear
in which conflict is impossible; in which illusions cannot even seem to
present themselves to you either as your own personal illusions or the
illusions of others. And the result is healing. It is what you would
call healing.

This is really how simple it is.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet if he could but realize the war is between forces that are real and
UNREAL powers, he could look upon himself and SEE his freedom. No-one
finds himself ravaged and torn in endless battles which he HIMSELF
perceives as wholly without meaning.
</div>

Another way of saying that is &ldquo;wholly impossible.&rdquo; As wholly
silly, as wholly unreasonable. Do you want the contest to be over? The
contest between sickness and health? The contest between guilt and
innocence? The contest between human and divine? Then be willing to
acknowledge that always one of the pairs in a conflict is unreal. So 
that you may see that fear is not called for.

Now, in the &ldquo;Lord&rsquo;s Prayer&rdquo; there is a line that says,
Thy will be done.[^2] We&rsquo;ve talked about this before and we&rsquo;ll
keep talking about it, because it&rsquo;s not a very palatable idea,
&ldquo;Thy will, not mine be done.&rdquo; Wow!

You need to start saying to the Holy Spirit: &ldquo;Thy will, not mine
be done.&rdquo; And understand that statement to mean this: Thy will,
Holy Spirit (that which is nothing more than my right Mind) not my will
be done&mdash;the will of the orphan that I think I am, the will of the
independent one that I think I am, the will of the vulnerable one that
must be expressed for survival, which validates it and makes it
valuable.

Your self-absorbed autonomy and independent sense of self must come to a
point of yielding to the Voice for truth in you. And that which is
yielding to the Voice for truth in you, is that which identifies with
the voice for fear and isn&rsquo;t real.

Everything within you says that such abandonment of authority on your
part, and such submission on your part to something apparently other
than yourself is sheer idiocy, absolute foolishness! And so you are
very, very, very reluctant to do it. But the time will come to pass when
you do, because it is inconsistent with the divine state of being for
you to be unconscious of who and what you divinely are. And because of
what you divinely are, you cannot ultimately succeed at behaving as
though you are insane.

Nothing destructive ever was or will be. Is that some spiritual
platitude, some cloud nine theory to give you comfort while you&rsquo;re
suffering and until you finally die? Or is it an absolute fact that you
must be willing to embrace absolutely and unequivocally? The war, the
guilt, the past are gone as one into the unreality from which they came.
They&rsquo;re gone because they never were present. They will appear to
go to you as you become unafraid to let that which is nothing more than
your right Mind be your Mind, yielding to it completely without
reservation.

You must arrive at a point where you are willing to do the very thing
that seems to be the most unreasonable: Yield up your autonomous
authority to Something that will take you over and will govern you,
govern you absolutely, so absolutely that the very thought of not
allowing that kind of governance will never occur to you.

This that you must yield to, is You. And I will keep presenting this
fact to you over and over again until you finally arrive at a place
where you&rsquo;re willing to risk the chance that abandoning yourself
to the Holy Spirit will return you to your sanity and integrity. And do
it!

Now let&rsquo;s continue. The new section is:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*The Guarantee of Heaven*[^1]

When we are all united in Heaven, you will value NOTHING that you value
here. For nothing that you value here you value wholly, and so you do
not value it at all. Value &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and this is the key point &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Value is where God placed it&hellip;
</div>

The reason you don&rsquo;t value everything wholly is because you have
placed the value on everything. &ldquo;Oh, this is profitable, that is
not. Oh, this is mine, not yours. That&rsquo;s yours not mine.&rdquo;

When you place value, which of the two voices are you using, which of
the two vantage points are you coming from? When you place value on a
thing it is the voice for fear that places the value. And the voice for
fear will place value on everything relative to the safety it provides
you with or the threat it presents to you according to your fearful
mindset.

And because it hasn&rsquo;t occurred to you to say, &ldquo;What is the
more of what God is being here than what I&rsquo;m seeing?&rdquo; you
are caught, you are blind. And none of what you value will you value in
the Kingdom of Heaven. It doesn&rsquo;t mean that none of the things
that you have placed value on won&rsquo;t be present in Heaven, but you
will value them truly. And that&rsquo;s the difference.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Value is where God placed it&hellip;
</div>

How? How does God place value? God places value by expressing Himself.
And that expression is Creation. And the Movement of Creation is God
embodying what He Is. And because it is God that is being embodied it is
of infinite inestimable value.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Value is where God placed it, and the value of what God esteems cannot
BE judged, for it has been ESTABLISHED.
</div>

Truth has been established. Reality has been established. Unreality has
not. Illusion has not, no matter how much or how completely you have
fooled yourself into believing that your valuations are valid and are
what are real.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Value is where God placed it, and the value of what God esteems cannot
BE judged, for it has been ESTABLISHED. It is WHOLLY of value. It can
merely be appreciated or not.
</div>

And all of you are sort of hanging out in the &ldquo;or not&rdquo; part.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It can merely be appreciated or not.
</div>

You can appreciate your right Mind or not. Hmm-mm.

So try something new. Try something new! Try appreciating it! Try
looking in your brother&rsquo;s eyes, for what purpose; to get the lay
of the land with him; to find out what his peculiar characteristics are;
to be able to protect yourself in his presence or manipulate him more
easily? No. Look into his eyes for the purpose of remembering God,
because that&rsquo;s the function of your right Mind. That is your
function.

To value what God esteems&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To value it partially is not to KNOW its value. In Heaven is everything
God valued, and nothing else. Heaven is perfectly unambiguous.
Everything is clear and bright, and calls forth ONE response.
</div>

It doesn&rsquo;t call forth awe and indifference. Indifference would
mean there was a lack of understanding of what was being experienced. An
impossibility for You in your right Mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is no darkness, and there is no contrast. There is no variation.
There is no interruption.
</div>

No interruption of what? Let&rsquo;s be clear here. An interruption
could only be an interruption of a flow, of a movement, of the Movement
of God, the Movement of Mind, which is experienced as infinite ideas
that are perfectly tangible and real to the mind that formed them.
It&rsquo;s an interruption of a Movement of Creation.

So when it says there is no variation, it does not mean that the true
experience of Being is one of eternal, changeless, unmoving bliss in
which there is no differentiation; because Creation is an experience of
Infinity&mdash;an infinite, indivisible movement.

You could call your body an indivisible movement, where toes can move
and fingers can move and digestive juices can digest your last meal and
your vocal cords can make sounds and your mouth and tongue can move to
form words And yet it&rsquo;s all one. And it is not truly at odds with
itself in any way shape or form. There is no differentiation. There is
no variation. There is no interruption.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is a sense of peace so deep that no dream in this world&hellip;
</div>

[chuckling] &hellip; which means in the definitions formed by the mind
giving voice to the voice for fear has ever brought.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is a sense of peace so deep that no dream &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in this mindset &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; in this world has ever brought even a dim imagining of what it
is.
</div>

Mind you, as you can see, what we&rsquo;re reading now has changed in
tone from what we&rsquo;ve been reading. And what&rsquo;s happening here
is that it is addressing the singularity of being&mdash;the fact that
there is no war, because you cannot have a war between what is real and
what is unreal.

And the call is for you to begin to look at everything as though there
is no possibility of war going on, but that the war that has seemed to
occur has been a by-product of a misuse and misinterpretation of your
mind. In other words, it&rsquo;s an artifact, a mistake&mdash;an
artifact of confusion, apparent but not actual.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Nothing in this world can give this peace, for nothing in this world is
wholly shared.
</div>

Think about it: &ldquo;Oh, this money is my money and not yours. I
earned it. I have become a millionaire and you&rsquo;re not a
millionaire. Oh, this house is mine. It&rsquo;s not yours. That house is
yours. It&rsquo;s not mine. This land belongs to me and not to you. You
cannot trespass on it. I have rights over this territory and you have
none. And you must acquiesce to my rules while you&rsquo;re in my
territory.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; nothing in this world is wholly shared.
</div>

Oh-h, does that mean, &ldquo;What&rsquo;s mine is yours and what&rsquo;s
yours is mine?&rdquo; Well, you know the answer to that, because nothing
as a matter of fact in your world is wholly shared. Possession is one of
the key elements of your existence. Territory, boundaries, are an innate
part of life.

Well, enjoy it if you think you can, but remember &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Nothing in this world can give this peace, for nothing in this world is
wholly shared.
</div>

Do you realize that it&rsquo;s not making any comment about what&rsquo;s
in the world&mdash;the trees, the grass, the things. It&rsquo;s talking
about how the things are dealt with. And when possession takes
precedence over extension and sharing, then the peace of Reality will be
unavailable to you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Perfect perception can merely show you what is CAPABLE of being wholly
shared. It can also show you the RESULTS of sharing, while you still
remember the results of NOT sharing.
</div>

These are fine points here. In the process of awakening, in the process
of coming back into your right Mind, the Holy Spirit (that which is
nothing more than your right Mind) reveals to you the difference between
the way you&rsquo;re looking at and interpreting things and the way
things are. And so, you will find yourself becoming aware of the meaning
of sharing wholly everything, while at the same time having available to
you your current sense of privacy and possession.

The two: That which is real and that which is unreal, will seem to exist
side-by-side. And while they are existing as something you can
contemplate and comprehend, even though one is real and one is unreal,
you are still not Awake. But that experience is an essential part of the
process of Awakening.

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Perfect perception &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; an experience that you can be infilled with spontaneously when
you are undefended against it &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; can merely show you what is CAPABLE of being wholly shared. It
can also show you the RESULTS of sharing&hellip;
</div>

And you will find yourself standing in awe of how reality works, right
here.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It can also show you the RESULTS of sharing, while you still remember
the results of NOT sharing. The Holy Spirit points quietly to the
contrast, knowing that you will finally let Him judge the difference for
you&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; listen to this:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; allowing Him to demonstrate which MUST be true.
</div>

There&rsquo;s that yielding part. There&rsquo;s that essential yielding
part.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit points quietly to the contrast, knowing that you will
finally let Him judge the difference for you&hellip;
</div>

Uh-h take away your authority!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you will finally let Him judge the difference for you, allowing
Him to demonstrate which MUST be true.
</div>

This is hard to take:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He has perfect faith in your final judgment because He knows that He
will make it FOR you.
</div>

Do you grasp that you&rsquo;re letting the Holy Spirit make it for you,
is the way you step out of a first gear neutral, second gear or third
gear experience? That it&rsquo;s the way you step out of the experience
of a war occurring between a real and an unreal power?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; has perfect faith in your final judgment because He knows that
He will make it FOR you.
</div>

Now, where is the sanity in that statement? If He makes it for you and
He is nothing more than your right Mind, then you&rsquo;re allowing your
right Mind to make the final decision for you constitutes an ultimate
and primitive act of sanity. That&rsquo;s where the truth is in that.
And that is where the answer lies. This is the ultimate answer. It is
the utterly simple answer.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; has perfect faith in your final judgement because He knows that
He will make it FOR you. To doubt this would be to doubt that His
mission will be fulfilled. How is this possible, when His mission is of
God?
</div>

The utter essence of your being, which is the Presence of God, has set
in you all that is true about Him. And nothing can alter that. And
although you have been able to imagine something else, and you have been
able to believe your imaginations, your imaginations haven&rsquo;t made
the Movement and Act of God invalid. It hasn&rsquo;t altered it in any
way, shape or form. Therefore, it is inevitable that misperceptions will
yield to Reality&mdash;your right Mind will supercede your imagination.

Now, we could talk at great length and may at some point about the
concept of guilt and the way it is employed by the voice for fear and
the mind that gives voice to the voice for fear. There&rsquo;s a lot
that can be said. There&rsquo;s a lot that can be said about the
attraction to guilt and the use of guilt and the extractions of
penalties. There&rsquo;s a lot that can be said about the addictive
nature of it all.

But you know what? It must be kept in perspective because the solution
to the practice of guilt, the employment of guilt, is not to be found in
dealing with guilt. It&rsquo;s to be found in remembering that no matter
how many mental positions you think you can act from&mdash;the Voice for
truth, neutral, or the voice for fear&mdash;there is only one that is
Real. And you must choose for It.

You must more diligently than ever before ask when you&rsquo;re
expressing yourself: &ldquo;Is this the voice for fear that I&rsquo;m
giving voice to, or is this the Voice for truth that I&rsquo;m giving
voice to? If it&rsquo;s not the Voice for truth that I&rsquo;m giving
voice to, I&rsquo;m engaged in nothing. And there&rsquo;s no meaning,
nor is there any value present in it anywhere. And I don&rsquo;t wish to
be meaningless. I don&rsquo;t choose to pretend to have the capacity to
be meaningless.

&ldquo;And so, I&rsquo;m going to choose for my right Mind. I&rsquo;m
going to choose for it by shutting up the voice for fear that I&rsquo;ve
been engaged in and my apparent capacity to be pro-active out from my
present sense of myself. And I&rsquo;m going to settle down. I&rsquo;m
going to abandon my arrogance. I&rsquo;m going to shut up and listen
after having become curious to know the truth about whatever is going on
and then listen for my right Mind to respond&mdash;which it is waiting
only for my permission to do.

&ldquo;And I will do this no matter what the physician has said. I will
do this no matter what the lawyer has said. I will do this no matter
what anyone is saying, so that I might bring the Voice for truth
&lsquo;into the world,&rsquo; embody it and make the gift of it. And I
will be willing to share the Voice for truth without reservation. I will
be willing to share it wholly with no strings. I will let it be the
uninhibited and uncontrolled Movement of Love that it is. And I will let
Love do its perfect work. I will yield to the way things work.&rdquo;

I look forward to being with you next week.

[^1]: T13.4 The Guarantee of Heaven
[^2]: King James, Mathew 6:5-15

