---
title: Jan 27, 2008
ref: "T13.4 The Guarantee of Heaven"
alink: "/acim/text/13/chap1304/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

Now, it might seem strange to say that we&rsquo;ve arrived at a very
important part of the book, A Course In Miracles, but the fact is that
we have.

Julie is a monter worker And it&rsquo;s especially important because there is a sentence which I
dictated to Helen that does not appear in the first or second edition.
And without that sentence, it becomes almost impossible to glean the
full meaning of the portion that we&rsquo;ve been reading last week and
that we will be reading tonight.

This one very important sentence is: &ldquo;The Holy Spirit is nothing
more than your right Mind.&rdquo; [^1]

This is a very key sentence. It is a very key teaching. Because without
it, as we read in this portion of the Course, it would be very easy for
you to think of the Holy Spirit as part of the Holy Trinity; the Father,
the Son and the Holy Spirit&mdash;something far beyond you. And yet, you
could say the essential teaching of the Course is that &ldquo;The Holy
Spirit is nothing more than your right Mind.&rdquo; Or we could reverse
it and say, your right Mind is nothing less than the Holy Spirit.

Now, we spoke last week about first gear, second gear, and third gear.
First gear is where you are listening to the Voice for truth. Second
gear is neutral, where you think that you have a mind of your
own&mdash;a place for you to simply be&mdash;and from which you can
shift to first gear and listen to the Voice for truth or, from which you
can shift from neutral to third gear, which is the voice for fear. And
of course, fear and guilt are two sides of the same coin.

Now, one can read the Course and think that the Course is about learning
how to be in neutral without engaging guilt or fear&mdash;without
yielding to, or giving your attention to the voice for fear so that you
might always be in a peaceful place in neutral, in second gear. But as
we discussed last week, the voice for fear and neutral are illusions.

You do not have a place from which to be on your own. That&rsquo;s an
illusion. And a capacity to listen to a voice for fear only seems
possible if you insist upon occupying this invalid and unreal position
called &ldquo;neutral&rdquo; where you&rsquo;re not connected to the
Voice for truth, where your divinity is not a part of your awareness of
yourself, where you are not yielding to anything except your own
self-developed expertise at being an independent authority. And loving
it!

It would seem that to improve one&rsquo;s self in neutral, one has to
learn not to be governed by the voice for fear&mdash;as though
that&rsquo;s the improvement needed in order to wake up&mdash;and
hopefully, as you read the Course, to desire to listen to the Voice for
truth which you&rsquo;ve learned is available to you in the Altar in the
very middle of you. But it&rsquo;s very possible for you to imagine that
the Holy Spirit that is available to you in the Altar in the very center
of your being is still the Holy Spirit, part of the Trinity&mdash;the
Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit; God, Jesus and the Holy Spirit.

If you cannot abandon that unreachable and different definition of the
Son and the Holy Spirit, you will not be able to wake up. And you will
not be able to embody what the Course is teaching!

You can see that this is very important. If you want to wake up, you
have to abandon the orphan mentality; the sense of self that has no
source, no father/mother, but is somehow self-existent or a product of a
physical movement in a physical universe&mdash;evolution.

But you want to wake up. You want to become sane again. And so this is
going to require not just abandoning the voice for fear and from neutral
position listening to the Voice for truth, the Holy Spirit&mdash;that
which is nothing more than your right Mind, you are going to have to be
willing to abandon neutral gear and let that which is nothing more than
your right Mind, be you. It cannot be put anymore simply than that. That
is the Gospel. That is the Good News!

The self that you think you are in neutral, is never going to be
improved to the point of waking up. It is ultimately going to be
abandoned because you have come to a point where you are willing to
commit yourself&mdash;invest yourself fully in letting your right Mind
replace the sense of a mind that you have developed from a vantage point
in which you have conceived of yourself as being an independent entity
separate from a God&mdash;something set in motion and given the option
and task of self-governance. That belief will keep you dreaming. It is
what needs to be abandoned. And the sentence that does not appear in the
first and second editions of the Course is what makes utterly clear the
truth of what I&rsquo;ve just said: &ldquo;The Holy Spirit is nothing
more than your right Mind.&rdquo;

So again, we&rsquo;re not talking about improving your puny little self
or helping others improve their puny little selves. We&rsquo;re talking
about shifting entirely from a mental frame of mind in which you
independently and autonomously govern yourself and your affairs, and
where you are willing to re-embrace the only Mind that is
yours&mdash;that Mind which is in perfect balance, perfect harmony,
perfect sanity&mdash;that Mind which you must let take you
over&mdash;that Mind which you must let supersede the mind you imagined
you have.

Let&rsquo;s go to the book.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You whose minds are darkened by doubt and guilt, remember this: God gave
the Holy Spirit to you &hellip;
</div>

See, that means something quite different when you know that the Holy
Spirit that God gave to you is nothing more than your right Mind. It has
a very different meaning than it would if you think of the Holy Spirit
as part of the Holy Trinity that is vastly different and distant from
you, although it embraces you lovingly.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You whose minds are darkened by doubt and guilt, remember this: God gave
the Holy Spirit to you, and gave Him the mission to remove all doubt and
every trace of guilt that His dear Son &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; has laid upon himself.
</div>

It makes sense, doesn&rsquo;t it? The Father has given you that which is
nothing more than your right Mind to replace the mind that you have
imagined; that you have filled with illusions and misunderstandings and
errors. God has given you your real Mind&mdash;your right Mind&mdash;to
replace a mind in you that is suffering from its own false beliefs, from
its own illusions.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is IMPOSSIBLE that this mission fail.
</div>

It is impossible that your right Mind will fail in its purpose to unite
you, to bring you back into a whole awareness of yourself. You could
say, to bring you back into Unity consciousness which would of course be
infinite consciousness&mdash;all inclusive, where nothing of what the
Infinite Mind that is God is&mdash;where you are the fullness of what
God is.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Nothing can prevent what God would have accomplished from
accomplishment.
</div>

You know, if the Holy Spirit really were something at a distance in a
holy position with God and Jesus, it would be easy for you to imagine
that maybe the Holy Spirit couldn&rsquo;t reach you or maybe you
couldn&rsquo;t reach the Holy Spirit. But if you understand that the
Holy Spirit is nothing more than your right Mind, it becomes obvious to
you that it&rsquo;s actually impossible for you to be separated from It
even if you are ignoring It. And therefore, the inevitability of what
I&rsquo;m going to call reunification, becomes clearly possible and
reasonable as well as inevitable if indeed the Holy Spirit functions as
the, I&rsquo;m going to say, embodier of God&rsquo;s Will. Therefore,
any temporary insanity that you pretend to be in will necessarily be
temporary. Necessarily. And the truth of that becomes obvious to you
when you realize that the Holy  Spirit is nothing more than your right
Mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Whatever your reactions to the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s Voice may be &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and I am chuckling because Paul understands fully what I am
speaking about because the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s Voice is one that he and
all of you will resist from time to time even though its nothing more
than your right Mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Whatever your reactions to the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s Voice may be,
whatever voice you choose to listen to &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; first gear or third gear&mdash;Voice for truth, voice for fear,
whichever voice you choose to listen to&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; whatever strange thoughts may occur to you, God&rsquo;s Will IS
done.
</div>

That is why you can&rsquo;t pretend to be insane forever, permanently.
You cannot establish it because God did not establish it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God&rsquo;s Will IS done.
</div>

What God is Being, right where you are, is the only thing that can Be
right where you are, no matter how creatively imaginative you might
become.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You WILL find the peace in which He &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; God &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; has established you &hellip;
</div>

God is the Establisher.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You WILL find the peace in which He has established you because He
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; God &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; does not change His Mind. He is invariable as the peace in
which you dwell, and of which the Holy Spirit reminds you.
</div>

You might not have thought about it, you might not have taken an
overview of your experiences of guilt or of fear, but if you will
observe the next time you are experiencing either guilt or fear clearly,
that the experience is mesmerizing. You even have a phrase:
&ldquo;Caught in the grip of fear!&rdquo; And it becomes difficult to
set it down. It becomes difficult to ignore it. It becomes almost
impossible to imagine that there can be reasonable justification for
shifting your attention from it&mdash;your compulsive, addicted
attention&mdash;from it and give your attention, instead, to your
peace&mdash;the peace that is part of your being; that is the nature of
your being which is inescapable.

Remember, we spoke last week about the fact that there seem to be two
powers at war with each other and one of them is real and one of them is
unreal. And your escape from the conflict lies in your willingness to
identify one of the voices as unreal and therefore not an actual power
or force that can accomplish anything. And in that awareness you are
released from the imagination that there can be conflict that can impact
you and injure you or hurt you or demean you, actually. And in that
realization, you will find yourself free of the invitation to fear. Free
of the mesmeric, hypnotic invitation to justify the experience of fear
and then attempt to overcome it.

See, it&rsquo;s the one in neutral that would hear the voice for fear
and become enticed into overcoming the voice for fear. And that&rsquo;s
where the mistake is. And that&rsquo;s where the clarity [snaps fingers]
has to come into focus so that you realize that it&rsquo;s not the
overcoming of the fear that&rsquo;s called for but the abandonment of
second gear from which you are observing fear and guilt entice you and
engulf you. And instead, turn to the Voice for truth in you.

Invite the Voice for truth in you to reveal the truth about you. Invite
your right Mind, which is utterly and ultimately divine because
it&rsquo;s the Presence of the Mind for God, to reveal to you the truth
about you that has nothing to do with a second gear called,
&ldquo;neutral&rdquo; or a third gear called, &ldquo;the voice for
fear.&rsquo;&rsquo;

God &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is invariable as the peace in which you dwell&hellip;
</div>

It&rsquo;s your environment. It&rsquo;s the environment of your being.
And the environment of your being that was established by God remains
forever unchanged and therefore, forever available to you.

God &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is invariable as the peace in which you dwell, and of which the
Holy Spirit &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that which is nothing more than your right Mind &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; reminds you.
</div>

Your sanity is forever on hand reminding you of the truth of you always.
Always it is present with you reminding you.

So when you shift your attention from third gear, the voice for fear,
and you abandon second gear, neutral, and you let first gear be fully
you, you will be allowing what God has set into place for you to do what
it&rsquo;s supposed to do. And you will call it, &ldquo;Waking
Up.&rdquo; You will call it, &ldquo;The end of illusions.&rdquo; It will
be an experience of joy.

And so, no matter what problems you&rsquo;re faced with, no matter what
the nature or character, no matter what its unique peculiarities are, no
matter how seductive they are, you must remember not to take the bait.
And even if you do take the bait, you must recognize it and remember
that you must give your attention to first gear knowing that it&rsquo;s
not pie-in-the-sky Holy Spirit, but ultimate Holy Spirit, which is
nothing more than your right Mind whose function it is to replace your
misunderstandings and your confusion and illuminate your infinite sanity
and return you to your right Mind.

That&rsquo;s important. It&rsquo;s not going to bring your right Mind to
you here in second gear, it&rsquo;s going to return you to your right
Mind.

Now, continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You will not remember change and shift in Heaven. You have need of
contrast only here.
</div>

Here in the Kingdom of Heaven that you are calling the human condition.
Here in neutral.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Contrast and differences are necessary teaching aids, for by them you
learn what to avoid and what to seek.
</div>

And I will say, hopefully you learn what to avoid and what to seek. What
you need to become aware of is, that what you call life&mdash;which most
everybody is living out from neutral&mdash;is not something to be lived
out forever in neutral. It is an experience from which you&rsquo;re
supposed to learn and not stay in. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Contrast and differences are necessary teaching aids&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; to one who&rsquo;s living in neutral seeming to sit with the
Voice for truth on his left, and [chuckle] the voice for fear on his
right, while he remains innocently playing with one and the other as
though it doesn&rsquo;t make any difference. And that&rsquo;s
life&mdash;nothing to learn, just, you know, use Spirit to overcome evil
and watch while evil tries to overcome Spirit, so that you can have this
thrill of overcoming this dastardly voice for fear, you see. No.
You&rsquo;re here to learn.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Contrast and differences are necessary teaching aids, for by them you
learn what to avoid and what to seek. When you have learned this you
will find the answer that makes the need for ANY differences disappear.
</div>

Now that doesn&rsquo;t mean that there won&rsquo;t be trees or flowers
or individualities. Those aren&rsquo;t differences. But a &ldquo;bad
person&rdquo; and a &ldquo;good person&rdquo; or poison oak and a rose
do seem to be differences. They will disappear, but not Creation.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you have learned this you will find the answer that makes the need
for ANY differences disappear.
</div>

Why? Because you won&rsquo;t need to be further convinced of what you
want and what you don&rsquo;t want.

Listen to this:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Truth comes of its own will unto its own.
</div>

The Voice for truth is nothing more than your right Mind. Truth comes to
its own. Truth comes to you of its own will because of the absolute
unalterable integrity of you, of Being, of Creation.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Truth comes of its own will unto its own. When you have learned that you
BELONG to truth, it will flow lightly over you without a difference of
any kind.
</div>

Truth will not illustrate differences. Because you will no longer be
confused and attracted to that which is not true without realizing that
you&rsquo;re supposed to learn something from the uncomfortable
experience and stop doing it. You see?

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you have learned that you BELONG to truth&hellip;
</div>

See, this is again the yielding to the Holy Spirit, letting that take
over you, which is nothing more than your right Mind and is therefore a
sane and intelligent thing to do.

Well&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you have learned that you BELONG to truth&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and aren&rsquo;t just some little entity sitting in neutral
that can, um-m, take a little bit of truth from the Voice for truth and
take a little bit of fear from the voice for fear and sort of mix them
up and work them around and have a little bit of excitement; and then
finally lean a little bit more toward the Voice for truth so you have a
breather, some peace, you know.

When you&rsquo;ve learned that you belong to truth and it&rsquo;s not a
thing for you to employ&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; it will flow lightly over you &hellip;
</div>

It won&rsquo;t be hard to hear the truth.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; it will flow lightly over you without a difference of any kind.
For you will need no contrast to help you realize that this is what you
want, and ONLY this. Fear not the Holy Spirit will fail in what your
Father has given Him to do.
</div>

In other words, fear not that the Holy Spirit will use contrast in a way
that would cause you not to learn what you need to learn. Do not be
afraid that the Holy Spirit will use contrast in any way other than the
way that will trigger Awakening and graceful growth, graceful learning,
because its function is to return you to your right Mind, in which there
is no confusion and therefore no suffering.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Fear not the Holy Spirit will fail in what your Father has given Him to
do. The Will of God can fail in NOTHING.
</div>

You see, you cannot escape… there is no way that you could have gotten
outside of the will of God. There&rsquo;s no way you could have gotten
outside of your right Mind. The only thing that you can seem to have
done is to have drawn a little circle within the infinite Mind that you
are. And then say that this circumscribed part is all there is of you.
Well, it isn&rsquo;t all there is of you, but it is you. It&rsquo;s the
Presence of God viewed in a limited fashion.

Your right Mind undoes the boundaries and reunites that which is all of
you to you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Have faith in only this one thing, and it will be sufficient &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and this is it:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God wills you be in Heaven, and nothing can keep YOU from it or It from
you.
</div>

Why does God will you to be in Heaven? Because God didn&rsquo;t create
any other place for you to be. It&rsquo;s that simple. And because of
that nothing can actually keep you from it or it from you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your wildest misperceptions, your weird imaginings, your blackest
nightmares &hellip;
</div>

What?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; all mean nothing.
</div>

They are meaningless.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
They will not prevail against the peace God wills for you. The Holy
Spirit will restore your sanity because insanity is NOT the Will of God.
If that suffices Him&hellip;
</div>

God &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; it is enough for you. You will not keep what God would have
removed because it breaks communication with you with whom He would
communicate. His voice WILL be heard.
</div>

That&rsquo;s like saying your salvation will be experienced. You in your
right Mind, will be the only one left&mdash;no orphan among orphans,
just the real You, the Son, the Daughter of God&mdash;embodying
willingly what God is Being right there where you are; because you were
willing to abandon all of the rights and privileges you thought you had
as an orphan to be your original self on whatever terms you wanted to
make up. But, because that put you in a position of disconnection from
what you divinely are&mdash;which we&rsquo;re calling second gear,
neutral&mdash;you immediately created the third gear to cope with,
because in your separated state it&rsquo;s impossible for you not to
experience fear and guilt simultaneously. You see?

This should be becoming clearer and clearer to you. The clearer it
becomes to you, the easier it will be for you to comprehend making the
choice for the Voice for truth, which you can safely do because
you&rsquo;re making the choice for that which is nothing more than your
right Mind, not your tiny little self&rsquo;s right mind, but the
Presence of what God is Being infinitely right where you are, from which
He has withheld nothing of what He is.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The communication link which God Himself placed within you, joining your
minds with His, CANNOT be broken.
</div>

Here again, this could be misunderstood. What is the communication link
which God Himself placed within you? The Holy Spirit. Mind you, the Holy
Spirit came into existence, we will say, when you decided to become
imaginative and get a divorce from your Father and try to be an
independent entity.

When you did that and circumscribed the infinity of you by a smaller
circle and said, &ldquo;This is me,&rdquo; did you annihilate the rest
of the infinitude of you? No, it&rsquo;s still there but you&rsquo;re
ignoring it. And that is what is called the Holy Spirit, the allness of
what God is Being right there as you is now divided by your active
independence into the Holy Spirit and the little orphan in neutral gear.

So as long as you maintain this little circle and say,
&ldquo;What&rsquo;s inside is all there is of me,&rdquo; the Holy
Spirit, everything outside it, is present and pressuring, pressing
against the boundary so as to break it.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The communication link which God Himself placed within you, joining your
minds with His, CANNOT be broken. You may believe you WANT it broken,
and this belief DOES interfere with &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the deep peace in which the sweet and constant communication
which God would share with you is known.
</div>

As long as you&rsquo;re in neutral, you are going to be dealing with the
actuality of the voice for truth and the illusion of the voice for fear.
And the two will seem to be in conflict. You will and do call it
&ldquo;The human condition.&rdquo; And you think the human condition is
life, that it&rsquo;s the ultimate and that you must make the best of it
and that&rsquo;s your task. And you have even imagined that there are
reincarnations so that you might learn better and better how to be in
this fashion. But I&rsquo;m telling you, the answer is to get out of
neutral, abandon neutral and the voice for fear.

The communication link, which God Himself placed within
you&mdash;joining your minds with His&mdash;cannot be broken. And so you
can get back. You may believe you want it broken, you say, &ldquo;Oh,
I&rsquo;d rather struggle a little longer, it&rsquo;s pretty exciting. I
have a lot invested in what I&rsquo;m doing right now. Let me see if it
is going to fail before I yield to what you&rsquo;re suggesting.&rdquo;
You may believe you want it broken&mdash;the connection&mdash;and this
belief does interfere with the deep peace in which the sweet and
constant communication which God would share with you, is known.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet His channels of reaching out cannot be wholly closed and separated
from Him.
</div>

What does that mean&mdash;His channels of reaching out? You, every
aspect of Creation are His channels of reaching out, of extension, of
expressing love, of embracing and blessing with all that He is.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; His channels of reaching out cannot be wholly closed and
separated from Him. Peace will be yours because His peace still flows to
you from Him Whose Will IS peace.
</div>

In other words, God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have it NOW.
</div>

You say, &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t have it now. I haven&rsquo;t had peace in
a long time. And even when I had it there was never any stability to it,
therefore it couldn&rsquo;t have been real peace.&rdquo; It&rsquo;s all
bullshit. You have it now. Why? Because you couldn&rsquo;t have second
gear or third gear, if you didn&rsquo;t have first gear. You can&rsquo;t
have an illusion of nothing. You can&rsquo;t have a distortion of
nothing. You can&rsquo;t have a false experience of nothing. It&rsquo;s
that simple.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Peace will be yours because His peace still flows to you from Him Whose
Will IS peace. You have it NOW. The Holy Spirit will teach you how to
USE it, and by &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; projecting it to learn that it is in you.
</div>

The key here is, that you must do something new that you haven&rsquo;t
done before. You must stop trying to improve the human condition. You
must stop trying to improve everything by using the definitions you have
given to everything; by using the value that you have placed in
everything. You must abandon that and cultivate the curiosity to have
revealed to you the value God has put in everything, which will reveal
to you His Purpose behind this or that or the other thing, or embodied
as this, that or the other thing. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God willed you Heaven, and will ALWAYS will you nothing else. The Holy
Spirit knows ONLY of His Will.
</div>

Now isn&rsquo;t it wonderful that you can no longer think that the Holy
Spirit is something high in the sky&mdash;the Father, the Son, the Holy
Spirit.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God willed you Heaven, and will ALWAYS will you nothing else. The Holy
Spirit &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that which is nothing more than your right Mind&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; knows ONLY of His Will.
</div>

God&rsquo;s Will.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is no chance that Heaven will not be yours, for God is sure, and
what He wills is sure as He is.
</div>

Now, you might be listening to what I&rsquo;m saying and be thinking
that, wow, this is like a giant leap that I&rsquo;m talking about.
I&rsquo;m asking something of you that is humongous, impossible. And
it&rsquo;s not. I&rsquo;m just asking you to recognize what the answer
is. And the answer is not you, in neutral, trying to improve the human
condition by working the good and the evil better, or by being
independent better, as though you could be independent without the voice
for fear accompanying you absolutely.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You will learn salvation because you will learn HOW TO SAVE. It will not
be possible to exempt yourself from what the Holy Spirit wills to teach
you.
</div>

Again, I know the ego thinks that sounds like control. But when you
realize that it&rsquo;s your right Mind which wills to teach you of your
integrity and your indivisible wholeness you will realize that
it&rsquo;s not control, it&rsquo;s really sanity.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Salvation is as sure as God. His certainty suffices. Learn &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; here it is learn, supposed to be learning.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Learn that even the darkest nightmare that disturbed the mind of
God&rsquo;s sleeping Son holds no power over him. He WILL learn the
lesson of awakening. God watches over him and light surrounds him.
</div>

God watches over you and light surrounds you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Can God&rsquo;s Son lose himself in dreams &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; well it seems as though you can.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Can God&rsquo;s Son lose himself in dreams when God has placed WITHIN
him the glad call to waken and be glad?
</div>

Oh again, what is this that has been placed in you that is a glad call
to waken and be glad? It&rsquo;s the Holy Spirit. God has placed in you,
that which is nothing more than your right Mind, and there was no way
for you to abandon it actually. It is the glad call, if you will but
abandon second gear and third gear, realizing that in shifting your
attention and embrace to first gear it will dissolve second and third
gear and return you to your sanity. And you will be glad.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; cannot separate HIMSELF from what is IN him. His sleep will not
withstand the call to wake. The mission of redemption will be fulfilled
as surely as the creation will remain unchanged throughout eternity.
</div>

Why? Because they&rsquo;re one and the same thing&mdash;your creation by
God was an eternal creation. You in your right Mind are an eternal
creation. And because of that your temporary confusion can only be
that&mdash;temporary.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You do not have to know that Heaven is yours &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; reality is yours &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; to make it so. It IS so. Yet the Will of God must be accepted
as YOUR will, to know it.
</div>

But remember, what we&rsquo;re talking about is making a shift to your
right Mind, which is an act of integration and therefore an action of
integrity and one that can be embraced without fear and with commitment.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that which is nothing more than your right Mind &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; cannot fail to undo FOR you everything you have learned
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and that word &ldquo;learned&rdquo; should be in
quotes&mdash;everything that you have taught yourself from second gear.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit cannot fail to undo FOR you everything you have learned
that teaches you what is not true must be reconciled with truth.
</div>

In other words, that what you have created from second gear, which has
been created from a vantage point of fear and guilt, that it must be
able to be brought to a point of being real&mdash;absolutely as real as
God&rsquo;s Creation.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit cannot fail to undo FOR you everything you have learned
that teaches you what is not true must be reconciled with truth.
</div>

You see, that has to do with manipulation from second gear of the things
in third gear and somehow, making what&rsquo;s going on in second and
third gear become equal to what is going on in first gear, which is
Reality. That&rsquo;s the reconciliation that the ego would have you
engage in. And it&rsquo;s the reconciliation that I mentioned at the
beginning tonight, where if you don&rsquo;t know that the Holy Spirit is
nothing more than your right Mind, then you are likely to engage in your
spiritual path from second gear using the elements of fear and guilt
because they are inseparable from second gear, and thereby never
accomplishing your awakening, because you&rsquo;re trying to reconcile
the wrong things&mdash;improve the human condition.

Now listen to this:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit cannot fail to undo FOR you everything you have learned
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; taught yourself &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; that teaches you what is not true must be reconciled with
truth. This is the reconciliation which the ego would substitute for
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what? &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; your reconciliation unto sanity and unto peace.
</div>

And there it is as clear as a bell. The reconciliation has nothing to do
with dynamics between second gear and third gear. The Holy
Spirit&rsquo;s reconciliation for you is helping you to abandon second
gear and third gear and succumb to, yield to, be overcome by, be
overwhelmed most beautifully by the Holy Spirit, which is nothing more
than your right Mind. That&rsquo;s the reconciliation. And that&rsquo;s
what, as you read this Course, you must understand it is pointing you in
the direction of.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit has a very different kind of reconciliation in His Mind
for you, and one which He WILL effect as surely as the ego will NOT
effect what it attempts.
</div>

The Holy Spirit &hellip;

&hellip; that which is nothing more than your right Mind &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; has a very different kind of reconciliation in His Mind for
you&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; it&rsquo;s a reconciliation with Him. It&rsquo;s a
reconciliation with everything outside the tiny circumference that
you&rsquo;ve placed in the middle of the infinity of you and claimed to
be all there is of you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit has a very different kind of reconciliation in His Mind
for you, and one which He WILL effect &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; accomplish &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; as surely as the ego will NOT effect &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; or accomplish &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; what it attempts.
</div>

What is the ego? The voice for fear&mdash;third gear. Third gear will
never accomplish anything because it is an unreal power.

Now, during this coming week I&rsquo;m going to invite you all to go
over what we read last week as well as what we&rsquo;ve discussed this
week. It is incredibly invigorating, motivating and contributive to
sudden shifts of perception&mdash;miracles.

And I look forward to being with you next week.

[^1]: T13.4 The Guarantee of Heaven

