---
title: Feb 10, 2008
ref: "T13.4 The Guarantee of Heaven"
alink: "/acim/text/13/chap1304/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

We&rsquo;re going to back up a paragraph for continuity&rsquo;s sake.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit &hellip;[^1]
</div>

&hellip; again, that which is nothing more than your right Mind &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; cannot fail to undo FOR you everything you have learned
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; or taught yourself &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; that teaches you what is not true must be reconciled with
truth.
</div>

In other words, that everything that you have made up which is not true
must be brought to truth and by virtue of a capacity that you think you
have had, your creation will be able by the force of your will and
determination and commitment, be rendered real&mdash;actual. As real as
God&rsquo;s Creation.

But, that which is nothing more than your right Mind &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; cannot fail to undo FOR you everything you have learned that
teaches you what is not true must be reconciled with truth.
</div>

Not too bright an outlook for the ego. &ldquo;Oh, you mean after all
the hard work I&rsquo;ve done, nothing is going to come of it?&rdquo;
That&rsquo;s true. That&rsquo;s true. What is not real can never become
valid and you can never become burdened by what is not real.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is the reconciliation which the ego would substitute for your
reconciliation unto sanity and unto peace.
</div>

You see &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit has a very different kind of reconciliation in His Mind
for you&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that which is nothing more than your right Mind has a very
different kind of reconciliation in It&rsquo;s Mind for you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and one which He WILL effect as surely as the ego will NOT
effect what it attempts.
</div>

And again, just as a reminder and for clarity sake, the reconciliation
which your right Mind has in mind for you, is the reconciliation between
you as you perceive yourself to be right now, and It. You see, your
mindset presently as an orphan&mdash;as an ego, wants to reconcile
things that you have created while in the orphanage and reconcile them
with Creation itself. It also wants to reconcile elements within the
orphanage state of mind with other elements.

In other words, get mutual agreements so that everyone will cooperate so
as to make you a lot of money or to benefit you in some way or so that
you can all benefit each other in some way.

But, the reconciliation that the Holy Spirit has in mind for you is not
one of reconciling illusions with illusions, but rather to have you
shift your attention entirely from the orphan state of mind&mdash;to
abandon second gear, neutral and third gear, the voice for
fear&mdash;and abandon yourself to first gear&mdash;to yield to the
Voice for truth, that which is nothing more than your right Mind. In
other words, to shift identity from an orphan sense of self to the real
one that you Are&mdash;that it&rsquo;s your birthright to be
experiencing with joy. That&rsquo;s the reconciliation that the Holy
Spirit has in mind for you.

It will not reconcile anything from second gear or third gear. This is
important to understand. Because you know what it means? You will not
waste any more time reconciling what can&rsquo;t be reconciled or
reconciling what you think ought to be able to be reconciled. And you
can attend to the one thing that will cause you to wake up.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Failure is of the ego, NOT of God. From Him &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; God &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you CANNOT wander, and there is no possibility that the plan
the Holy Spirit offers to everyone, for the salvation OF everyone, will
not be perfectly accomplished.
</div>

That is fact&mdash;important!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
From &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; God &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you CANNOT wander, and there is no possibility that the plan
the Holy Spirit offers to everyone, for the salvation OF everyone, will
not be perfectly accomplished.

You WILL be released, and you will not remember &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; listen to this &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you will not remember anything you made that was not created
FOR you and BY you in return.
</div>

Is that a little bit of a mindbender?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You WILL be released, and you will not remember anything you made that
was not created FOR you and BY you &hellip;
</div>

How can something be created for you and by you? It&rsquo;s easy.
Remember, creation is co-creation. So, God creates for you. And your
part in the co-creation is the wonder-filled acknowledgement of It.
&ldquo;Oh! I see what You&rsquo;ve made… Ah-h…Wonderful!&rdquo;

Your part in the co-creation is the acknowledgement of what God created
as His Creation, without confusion, without thinking It came from any
other source&mdash;without thinking you did it or your brother did it or
the orphan down the hall.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You WILL be released&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; from what? From a state of being unreconciled with yourself,
unreconciled with that which you truly Are.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You WILL be released, and you will not remember anything you made that
was not created FOR you &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; by God &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and BY you &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in the acknowledgement of It as Creation Itself &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; in return.
</div>

Creation is a two-step process you might say. God creates and you
discern. You observe. You see and say, &ldquo;Yes! Yes Father.&rdquo;
You see?

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You WILL be released, and you will not remember anything you made
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in other words, anything you made up. That the illusions that
you would have brought to truth to render them true will not only be
gone, you will not remember them. You will not be plagued with them. You
will not have night dreams, as it were, in which the past plagues you.
You will not remember them.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You WILL be released, and you will not remember anything you made that
was not created FOR you and BY you in return. For how can you remember
what was NEVER true, or NOT remember what has always been? It is this
reconciliation with truth, and ONLY truth, in which the peace of Heaven
lies.
</div>

&hellip; or the peace of your Be-ing or the peace of Be-ing Itself.

As long as you think you have a capacity, a self-fulfilling capacity to
be creative on your own, separate and apart from God, you will lack. You
will be preoccupied with that which you have made as well as that which
you are making. And what you have made you will be busy protecting
because it&rsquo;s not real and it&rsquo;s therefore not
eternal&mdash;and therefore, it&rsquo;s not permanent, stable. And it
will not always be yours if you don&rsquo;t protect it, if you do not
guard it and if you do not stand over and against your brothers, because
after all they&rsquo;re very likely to try and take it from you because
it&rsquo;s not permanently yours, because what you&rsquo;ve created
isn&rsquo;t real.

But on the other hand, when you willingly abandon the concept that you
can be an independent authorizer, an independent creator&mdash;as
insulting as that is to your ego and you yield to your right Mind, in
other words, you defer to something other than this sense of yourself
that you have made up and that you believe, which when you&rsquo;re
doing it feels like a disrespect for everything you&rsquo;ve been
respecting&mdash;you will find that the only thing you lose is what
wasn&rsquo;t real. The only thing you will lose are illusions you
created and maintained by an investment of your belief in them. But in
their absence, you will find all of Creation in your lap, as it were, on
your doorstep, as it were. You will find all of
Creation&mdash;God&rsquo;s Creation&mdash;and at the same time you will
remember that you took part in that Creation, in the acknowledgement of
It as the Father&rsquo;s.

And in your acknowledgement of It, in your deference of authority to the
Father in Creation, you play an essential part. Because you know what?
Unrecognized good is non-existent good. Unrecognized creation is
non-existent creation. In order for Creation&mdash;the Movement of
God&mdash;to be experienced, to be real, it must be validated. And
that&rsquo;s your job. You are the observer. You are that which pays
attention. And that&rsquo;s why it says that your attention is
God&rsquo;s treasure.

The next section is called:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*The Testimony of Miracles*

Yes, you are blessed indeed. Yet in this world you do not know it.
</div>

Oh, well, what does that mean?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; in this world &hellip;
</div>

Well, it means in the orphanage you imagine that you&rsquo;re in. An
orphanage which is sitting in the middle of the Kingdom of Heaven, as a
concoction of your imagination.

It&rsquo;s like children going out on a summer&rsquo;s day, into a
vacant field and imagining that it&rsquo;s an ocean on which there are
ships. And each one of the children is a ship of his own, plying the
waves, doing what it does, maybe carrying pirates and plundering the
other ships… [chucking] or maybe being a hospital ship, doing good
deeds.

Well, there are no waves. There is no ocean. There are no ships. But
it&rsquo;s easy to pretend. And so, you pretend that there&rsquo;s an
orphanage in the field and that you&rsquo;re an orphan in that
orphanage. And all the other children are playing orphans with you. You
see? But it&rsquo;s not real.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you are blessed indeed &hellip;
</div>

How? By having the Holy Spirit as your Mind. Having the Holy Spirit as
your Sanity. Having your recognition of your Sonship or Daughtership
with God available to you in all the fullness of Its meaning and all of
Its inheritance, if you will. You are blessed.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet in this &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; orphan state of mind &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; in this world &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you have made up &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you do not know it. But you have the means for learning it and
seeing it quite clearly. The Holy Spirit uses logic as easily and as
well as does the ego, except that His conclusions &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; are NOT insane. They take a direction exactly opposite,
pointing as clearly to Heaven as the ego points to darkness and to
death. We have followed much of the ego&rsquo;s logic, and have seen its
logical conclusions. And having seen them, we have realized that they
can not be seen but in illusions, for there alone their seeming
clearness SEEMS to be clearly seen.
</div>

That&rsquo;s not just a play on words. You all know that you can get
into a frame of mind where you will believe something that isn&rsquo;t
true. You&rsquo;ve done it. And it isn&rsquo;t till after the fact that
you realize that what you believed wasn&rsquo;t true. But you did
believe it.

And so, in your confused state of mind there was pure logic to all of
your conclusions; and that logic led to justifiable distress and pain
and suffering and anger, etc., etc.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
We have followed much of the ego&rsquo;s logic, and have seen its
logical conclusions. And having seen them, we have realized that they
can not be seen but in illusions&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; why? Because once things become clear to you again, you
can&rsquo;t see what you were seeing before and believe that
they&rsquo;re valid. And so, it&rsquo;s clear to you that they cannot be
seen except in a deluded mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; for there alone their seeming clearness SEEMS to be clearly
seen. Let us now turn away from them, and follow the simple logic by
which the Holy Spirit teaches you the simple conclusions that speak for
truth, and ONLY truth.

Let us now turn away from them, and follow the simple logic by which the
Holy Spirit teaches &hellip;
</div>

What&rsquo;s going to prompt you to turn away? It&rsquo;s not your
natural inclination&mdash;or hasn&rsquo;t been so far. If you&rsquo;re
suffering, if you&rsquo;re in pain, if you&rsquo;re bothered, if there
is distress, you simply accept it as a real condition&mdash;something to
be coped with, not something the reality of which needs to be
challenged. You see?

So, having learned now, as we&rsquo;ve been moving along, that suffering
is not natural to you, that it&rsquo;s not your Birthright and that
it&rsquo;s indicative of the fact that you are occupying and identifying
with neutral, second gear&mdash;which is an invalid position, an
illusory position from which to be&mdash;you now have the capacity to
have an &ldquo;Aha&rdquo; experience.

&ldquo;Ah-h! I am not comfortable. And although I believe I&rsquo;m not
comfortable because of the circumstances I&rsquo;m confronted by, I now
know that I&rsquo;m actually uncomfortable because I&rsquo;m trying to
occupy second gear. I&rsquo;m trying to be from a place in which
it&rsquo;s inevitable that I will be troubled.&rdquo; You see? And that
can be the reminder to you, a reminder to now turn away from
them&mdash;illusions.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Let us now turn away from them, and follow the simple logic by which the
Holy Spirit teaches &hellip;
</div>

You say, &ldquo;Oh! I did it again. I&rsquo;m in second gear. I&rsquo;m
trying to be in neutral. And I know it because I&rsquo;m not happy. I
know it because I&rsquo;m feeling uncomfortable. I know it because my
stomach is hurting.&rdquo; Blah, blah, blah.

And so, you have now the means to say, &ldquo;My problem is the mental
position I&rsquo;m trying to create and occupy and maintain in order to
have an independent identity, self-governed&mdash;the purpose of which
is to behave in such a way as to develop pride and self-confidence and a
feeling of actual competence. That&rsquo;s my problem. And so, I know
now to abandon that, to turn to the Holy Spirit&rdquo;&mdash;or to turn
to your Guide, who has the same function as the Holy Spirit&mdash;and
ask to know how to see what is actually in front of you; how to
interpret it; how to be free of the illusions that are part and parcel
of your insisting on viewing it all from neutral, second gear. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Let us now turn away from them&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; illusions &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and follow the simple logic by which the Holy Spirit teaches
you the simple conclusions that speak for truth, and ONLY truth.
</div>

Now, I would imagine that in the last week or two weeks, many of you
have been doing this. You&rsquo;ve been turning to the Holy Spirit.
You&rsquo;ve been turning to the Holy Spirit knowing that It&rsquo;s
nothing more than your right Mind. And therefore, your turning to It and
leaning into It is a matter of leaning into the essential integrity of
your divine Being, which isn&rsquo;t nearly as scary a thing as it used
to be when you thought the Holy Spirit was something different from you.

And you&rsquo;ve done it. And you haven&rsquo;t gotten any clarity. This
is a problem you will run into. Not because the Holy Spirit
doesn&rsquo;t answer, but because an orphan mentality is a mentality
which denies truth and intends to come upon truth by some other devious
route through the use of creative imagination and nothing substantial.

So, you turn to the Holy Spirit to have the logic of that&mdash;which is
nothing more than your right Mind&mdash;speak to you and you don&rsquo;t
hear anything because it is not easy for you to abandon the habit of the
denial of truth.

And so, what it means is that you must persist. And lest you become
discouraged by My saying that, it is very important for you to
understand that the Holy Spirit&mdash;that which is nothing more than
your right Mind&mdash;has an intent to connect with you, no matter what
It has to do to get around your defenses against perceiving the truth.

And so it&rsquo;s not all up to you. But it is up to you to persist in
your intent to hear. In other words, you must persist in listening.

Remembering that:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Failure is of the ego, NOT of God.

If you are blessed &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; which you are &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and do not know it, you need to LEARN it must be so.
</div>

You hear that? You need to learn. That means that you&rsquo;re going to
be engaged in a learning process. Remember school? You went to school
and you paid attention. And you paid attention from all different
angles, so that you might comprehend fully and learn of what you were
observing.

It&rsquo;s going to take conscientiousness. But when you are being
conscientious at paying attention to something which is an awesome
aspect of Creation&mdash;the Movement of God&mdash;why wouldn&rsquo;t
you bring whatever degree of intent it took to accomplish the goal of
learning? It is worth it. You&rsquo;re just not used to having to learn.
And you would like it to be done for you. But it&rsquo;s your commitment
that you bring to it that opens the door to what&rsquo;s already there.
Because your commitment is the way you undo your long-standing practice
of denial of truth, even though you didn&rsquo;t know you were doing it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you are blessed and do not know it, you need to LEARN it must be so.
The knowledge is not taught, but its CONDITIONS must be acquired, for it
is they that have been thrown away.
</div>

Well, what does that mean?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Knowledge is not taught&hellip;
</div>

Well, many of you believe that you are the children of God, that you are
the Holy Son or Daughter of God&mdash;that you are God&rsquo;s
offspring. Many of you believe that you&rsquo;re just an organism, a
part of an evolutionary process on a physical planet.	

Now, for those of you who believe that you are God&rsquo;s offspring,
that you are the direct expression of God, you are missing out on the
conditions of that state of Be-ing. Would you not say that one of the
conditions of being the Son or Daughter of God is Peace? Would you not
say it&rsquo;s Joy? Would you not say it&rsquo;s painlessness? Would you
not say it&rsquo;s health? Would you not say it&rsquo;s harmony?

Well now, all of these conditions, which would be the condition of being
the Son or Daughter of God; all of these things you experience in
wavering forms. They come and go. They increase and they decrease.
They&rsquo;re insubstantial and impermanent.

Now, these conditions must be acquired because when these conditions are
acquired and you are experiencing them, you then know and it&rsquo;s not
a belief any longer&mdash;you Know. The Knowledge is there confirmed by
the conditions. And I&rsquo;m going to say, that the Knowledge is
disclosed by the presence of the conditions. And so, what you want to be
looking for is not the Knowledge but the conditions of being the Son or
Daughter of God.

You want to experience the conditions of a tree, or a flower, or a table
being an idea in the Mind of God, having no material accompaniments
whatsoever but constituted of the energy of Spirit, which is Love
radiating infinitely and experienceable by all infinitely.

These are the conditions that must be acquired. How do you acquire them?
Through the use of curiosity, as I&rsquo;ve said before. Look at the
flower, or look at your mate, or look at the glass and ask of the Holy
Spirit, &ldquo;What is the more of what God is Be-ing here, than what
I&rsquo;m seeing?&rdquo; You see?

So the Knowledge is not taught. The Holy Spirit&mdash;that which is your
right Mind&mdash;is not going to give you Knowledge. But It is going to
help you access or acquire the conditions.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The knowledge is not taught, but its CONDITIONS must be acquired, for it
is they that have been thrown away.
</div>

You see?

On the one hand you say, &ldquo;Hey, I&rsquo;m just a mortal, you know.
I&rsquo;m sixty years old and you know, I&rsquo;m past the prime of my
life and you know, I just don&rsquo;t have what I used to have. But hey,
that&rsquo;s life isn&rsquo;t it?&rdquo; You see.

You&rsquo;ve thrown away the conditions of youth, so to speak, through a
use of your mind that denies the fullness and the vigor of
youth&mdash;you consciously deny the truth of your Be-ing and
you&rsquo;ve thrown the conditions away. But you can still say, &ldquo;I
know I&rsquo;m a child of God.&rdquo; You see the inconsistency?
&ldquo;I know I&rsquo;m the child of God. I know that. I believe that
even. But hey, you know, what can you expect, I am sixty years old. I am
this or I am that.&rdquo; And so, you have this conflict going on. You
have this war within yourself&mdash;&ldquo;I am this, but I&rsquo;m not
this&rdquo;.

And so it&rsquo;s like book learning. It&rsquo;s just a thought.
&ldquo;I&rsquo;m a child of God. God loves me. You know, I limp a little
but I know God loves me. And hey, what can I expect, I&rsquo;m this many
years old&mdash;I&rsquo;m this or that.&rdquo; You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The knowledge is not taught, but its CONDITIONS must be acquired&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and I might say reacquired &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; for it is they that have been thrown away.
</div>

They&rsquo;ve been thrown away and you&rsquo;ve developed a mindset that
keeps arguing them away and disallows for their return. &ldquo;Hey,
I&rsquo;m sixty, my wife is fifty-five. We&rsquo;re both showing signs
of age. If I started acting like I was thirty years old again, how do
you think that would make her feel? I can&rsquo;t go around being a
couple, looking and behaving as though I&rsquo;m twenty years younger
than she is. That would be insulting to her. That would be unbearable
for her. And it would be unbearable to me to have to live looking in her
face and seeing her sadness&mdash;that she is not able to keep up with
me. You see. So no, don&rsquo;t talk to me about wonderful things like
youth. You see, I still insist on denying the truth about me for this
reason.&rdquo;

Now, you&rsquo;re going to have to start breaking the rules. And
you&rsquo;re going to have to start being the ones who are evidencing
the conditions of reality, so that your brothers and sisters have
inspiration to abandon their devotion to denying the truth.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You CAN &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; can is the operative word here.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You CAN learn to bless.
</div>

You CAN learn to inspire by embodying the conditions of your true
Be-ing, by listening to the logic of the Holy Spirit as it uncovers to
you what is true, and does it by managing to get around your habits of
denial and your peculiar ways of keeping truth at a distance from you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You CAN learn to bless, and CANNOT give what you have not. If, then, you
OFFER blessing&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; or I&rsquo;ll say inspiration &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; it MUST have come first to yourself. And you must also have
ACCEPTED it as yours, for how else could you give it away?
</div>

This brings us to an important point, because in the last week or so
we&rsquo;ve been talking about you. We&rsquo;ve been talking about you
listening to the Voice for truth or listening to the voice for fear or
being in neutral. And we&rsquo;ve been talking about what you need to do
to get out of illusion; to become free of the belief in a neutral
position and in the abandonment of it, becoming free of guilt and fear,
which are the third gear, which necessarily come into existence when
second gear is occupied.

And so, once again it can sound as though all you have to do to wake up
is to do something all by yourself. You can dare to abandon second gear
and thereby third gear and let that which is nothing more than your
right Mind consume that sense of a mind and self; and replace that sense
of a mind and self that you have been occupying, and which we have
called the orphan and orphanage, and voila! you could think [snapping
fingers] you&rsquo;ll be awake. No. You still can&rsquo;t do it all by
yourself.

What reasonable justification do you have for yielding to the Holy
Spirit? What is the only valid reason for succumbing to the Holy Spirit?
Your brother… your brother has to be the reason why you are willing to
yield to the Holy Spirit, that which is nothing more than your right
Mind. What is it that facilitates the coming forth of the Holy Spirit?
An act of love on your part, an act of love on behalf of your brother,
an act of love on behalf of your sister; a desire to have an experience
you haven&rsquo;t experienced before&mdash;to look at them or to look
into their eyes and remember God.

Remember, the way to yield to the Holy Spirit is to ask, &ldquo;How do I
see God here? How do I see God there?&rdquo; Then the Holy Spirit,
through its exquisite use of logic and its incredible grasp of the
illusions which you are employing and the secret defenses that you have
in place against your discerning the truth, it is able to get to where
you are and speak to you so that you hear it and truth dawns on you. But
your brother or your sister has to be the reason for it. And it is very
important not to forget this.

Yes, you can recognize that when you&rsquo;re miserable, you&rsquo;re
disturbed; that it is because you are occupying second gear, neutral,
and you can choose to listen to the Holy Spirit in order to shift out of
neutral. But you must remember something: Behind your desire for comfort
and peace must be a desire to reconnect with your brothers and sisters
in acts of love, which include the acknowledgement of them as the direct
expression of God, because that&rsquo;s what makes them brothers and
sisters to you and you a brother or sister to them&mdash;and all of you
the offspring of God. And in that your denial of truth, your denial of
reality, the denial that has created for you a sense of real orphanhood
is undone. And you escape from it. You are released from it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If, then, you OFFER blessing, it MUST have come first to yourself.
</div>

Even if you think you don&rsquo;t have a capacity to bless your brother
and sister, your desire to do it and your intent and your act of love
and caring from within yourself opens the door for blessing to come
through and in the process of extending to your brother touches you,
blesses you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you can see that &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you must also have ACCEPTED it as yours, for how else could you
give it away?
</div>

Do you see though that there&rsquo;s a little bit of a twist to this?
Your desiring to give something away before you have it, that&rsquo;s an
act of faith, an essential act, an essential part of it. Your act of
love toward your fellowman brings love through you and illuminates you
both with all of what it is. And that&rsquo;s the way it works. And so
you do not have the excuse to stand there and say, &ldquo;I can&rsquo;t
give it, because I don&rsquo;t have it.&rdquo;

Have faith. Care enough about your brother or your sister that
you&rsquo;re willing to witness on your brother&rsquo;s or
sister&rsquo;s behalf and bless them with your caring and you&rsquo;ll
find that the Father&rsquo;s love for you will come through you to them
and bless you both. It&rsquo;s just the way it works.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
That is why your miracles offer YOU the testimony that you are blessed.
If what you offer IS complete forgiveness, you MUST have let guilt go,
accepting the Atonement for yourself and learning you are guiltless. How
could you learn what has been done for you, but which you do not know,
unless &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and listen to this &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; unless you do what you would HAVE to do if it HAD been done
unto you?
</div>

You see, [chuckling] it&rsquo;s actually joyful. Because God created you
as His full Self-expression, your capacity to extend that is already
with you. And if you knew it was already with you, you would
spontaneously extend it. But at the moment you&rsquo;re saying,
&ldquo;No, no way. I don&rsquo;t have it. I never had it. Just look,
look at everything I&rsquo;ve done. I have all kinds of proof that I
don&rsquo;t have that. And even if I did at one time, God would have
taken it away from me because I&rsquo;m such a bastard and I&rsquo;m so
mean spirited and on and on and on.&rdquo;

And so, by your very self-determination you don&rsquo;t extend what you
would extend if it had actually been given to you. And since it has
actually been given to you, your life sort of falls flat, because
you&rsquo;re not extending what you could because it was given to you.

And so, you need to have a little fun in your mind. It&rsquo;s like Dr.
Phil has a favorite question. He says: &ldquo;Well, if you knew what the
answer was, what would it be?&rdquo; And many times the people know the
answer and share it.

If you have it to give, why don&rsquo;t you give it? If you have it to
give, why don&rsquo;t you go ahead and give it even if you don&rsquo;t
think you have it? You see? Lighten up a little bit.

Let what seems to be an unreasonable postulate that you have aspects of
divinity, that have been given to you and are yours to give. Why
don&rsquo;t you let those postulates of divinity abide with you and then
say, &ldquo;Wow! Okay. If they&rsquo;ve been given to me, I&rsquo;m
going to give them away. Gee, I don&rsquo;t know what they are.&rdquo;
Well, if you did know what they were, what would they be? You see? Give
yourself playful, enjoyable means of getting past ignorance.

How could you learn what has been done for you but which you do not
know, unless you do what you would have to do if it had been done unto
you. You see? You see the fun in that one sentence&mdash;the lightness?
Embrace it lightly. And give what you didn&rsquo;t know you had to give,
lightly. And if you think you don&rsquo;t know what it is, ask yourself,
&ldquo;If I did know what it was, what would it be?&rdquo;

Now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Indirect proof of truth is needed in a world made of denial and without
direction.
</div>

[Chuckling] I remember telling Paul, at one time, that we would never be
in the middle of controversy. That was a great relief to him because he
was afraid we might be. Later on it turned out we were controversial,
even though we were not in the middle of controversy.

And he said to me, &ldquo;Hey, I thought you said we&rsquo;d never be in
the middle of controversy?&rdquo; And I told him, &lsquo;Yes,
that&rsquo;s right. But I never said we wouldn&rsquo;t be
controversial.&rsquo;

So you see, I had to move him beyond his fear of speaking publicly, of
sharing what I had to say and so on and what the results might be. I had
to get past his fear, you might say, through misdirection&mdash;another
way of saying that was, indirectly. As it turned out, he had no trouble
being controversial or being identified with what was controversial.
It&rsquo;s just that he didn&rsquo;t want to be embroiled in the middle
of controversy.

So the Holy Spirit works with you indirectly because as you know the ego
is nothing more than a defense mechanism. It is highly skilled at
defending itself. And so, you never confront the ego directly. It will
win. It knows how to defend itself. It knows how to block itself
successfully from the penetration of Truth.

The ego is a pattern of behavior, it&rsquo;s not an
identification&mdash;identification of you. You can behave like an ego.
You can identify with an ego but you can&rsquo;t be something
you&rsquo;re not. You are the Presence of God. And as long as you think
you&rsquo;re an ego, all of you that you are not identified with is held
in trust, as I&rsquo;ve said before. And what is held in trust is called
the Holy Spirit.

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Indirect proof of truth is needed in a world &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; or mind &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; made of denial and without direction. You will perceive the
need for this if you will realize that to deny is the decision NOT to
know. The logic of the world MUST therefore lead to nothing, for its
GOAL is nothing.
</div>

What does that mean, &ldquo;its goal is nothing&rdquo;? Its goal is not
to experience truth. Its goal is not to experience reality. Well, if its
goal is not to experience all that Is, [chuckling] its goal is nothing.
It&rsquo;s the absence of all that Is, because it itself is the denial
of all that Is.

Now, I want to point out something to you. A further explanation of why
it seems difficult&mdash;not easy, not simple, not graceful&mdash;to
wake up. If you have been identifying with the ego; if you have been
identifying with your training and your education that says you&rsquo;re
an independent agent and that you&rsquo;re here to make a name for
yourself, make a mark in the world and to do it in the fifty or sixty
allotted years that you have to be alive and make a mark in existence
itself, then you are actively but maybe ignorantly practicing the denial
of reality&mdash;practicing the denial of all that really Is.

Waking up involves the abandonment of your commitment to that. And
therefore, there&rsquo;s a reluctance because you don&rsquo;t realize
that if you set down these very structured goals that you have developed
and others have helped you develop, and teachings have helped flesh out
for you; as you give those up, you don&rsquo;t realize that as you give
those up you will not disappear, because you never were the
definitions&mdash;you were that formulating, embracing and believing the
definitions. You see?

There is reluctance to move forward swiftly because it feels as though
you are abandoning the essential you because you think the definitions
are the essential you.

I&rsquo;m going to give another example. We&rsquo;ll say that you are
fifty-five or sixty. You&rsquo;ve done well in life and you&rsquo;re
ready to retire. And you had a really good job. I mean by that, you had
a job that involved skill that you were able to practice well. And you
got up every morning and you went through the processes that one who
does this work does. And so, everything in your day reinforced your
definition of yourself.

If you were a doctor, every surgery that you engaged in, every
examination you gave was a further proof, &ldquo;I am a doctor.&rdquo;
Then, because you did very well as a doctor, we&rsquo;ll say, you retire
at fifty-five&mdash;early.

And now, when you get up in the morning, you don&rsquo;t go to the
office. You don&rsquo;t have appointments. Nobody is calling with
emergencies&mdash;all things which made you feel fulfilled, all things
which identified who you were&mdash;they&rsquo;re not happening.

And God, you&rsquo;re only fifty-five. I mean, you still have a long
time left to not know who you are! And for many that can be very
depressing and distressing. But you want to know something? Without the
definitions you&rsquo;re still there! You&rsquo;re still Be-ing.
You&rsquo;re still conscious. And so, the definitions that you had
acquired had given you a sense of who you are. And then, without those
definitions being reinforced, you could experience a great sense of loss
of identity.

Well, I promise you, that what you do during the day is not what
identifies you. Your identity is an a priori fact. It simply is present.
It&rsquo;s inseparable from you. And ultimately, it is the Holy Spirit.

And when you let the Holy Spirit in, you&rsquo;re letting your right
Mind in. You&rsquo;re letting your Sanity return to you and the clear
perception of all that Is will replace the partialness of your prior
conscious awareness.

Again though, understand that the way in which reality can be brought to
your attention by that which is nothing more than your right Mind, the
Holy Spirit, will always be indirect because your present state of mind
is a state of defense. It&rsquo;s a defense mechanism.

And so, when you find progress, you might say, of awakening proceeding
slowly, understand that there&rsquo;s a reason, but not a good enough
reason to stop in your persistence!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you decide to have and give and BE nothing except a dream, you MUST
direct your thoughts unto oblivion. And if you have and give and are
EVERYTHING, and all this has been DENIED, your thought system is closed
off, and wholly separated from the truth. This IS an insane world, and
do not underestimate the actual extent of its insanity. There is no area
of your perception that it has not touched, and your dream IS sacred to
you. That is why God placed the Holy Spirit IN you, where you placed the
dream.
</div>

The dream is initiated by second gear&mdash;the neutral position. And
whenever and for whatever reason you established second gear for
yourself&mdash;neutral&mdash;you also established third gear, which is
the voice for fear/guilt, since fear and guilt are the two sides of one
coin.

So, what have we learned tonight, at least intellectually? We&rsquo;ve
learned that in order to become free of the illusion of second and third
gear, of neutral and the voice for fear, you must make the choice for
first gear&mdash;the Holy Spirit, that which is nothing more than your
right Mind. And you must access the Holy Spirit for the purpose of
blessing your brother. Because not only are you not an orphan,
you&rsquo;re not an only child!

And with that good news, I will say good night. And I look forward to
being with you next week.

[^1]: T13.4 The Guarantee of Heaven

