---
title: Feb 17, 2008
ref: "T13.5 The Testimony of Miracles"
alink: "/acim/text/13/chap1305/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

Is everyone having an interesting time with the section of the Course
that we&rsquo;re reading and discussing? Or let me put it this way, are
you having an interesting time observing your behavior and your mental
habits? Are you becoming aware of how self-centered you are and how
little of the time you really are willing to let your brother be the
focus of your attention even though we have discussed the fact that
it&rsquo;s the function of your Being to look into your brother&rsquo;s
eyes and remember God?

It&rsquo;s your function to look at any aspect of Creation and remember
God. I don&rsquo;t believe we&rsquo;ve read anything in here that says,
&ldquo;You are supposed to take a look at yourself and you are supposed
to focus in on yourself most definitely and make commitment to paying
attention only to what you want and to what you feel.&rdquo; Even though
we&rsquo;ve read nothing like that here, it&rsquo;s something
you&rsquo;re all really familiar with.

Now, as we begin tonight it says &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Seeing is always OUTWARD.[^1]
</div>

That&rsquo;s like looking into your brother&rsquo;s eyes or looking at
any part of Creation and remembering God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Seeing is always OUTWARD. Were your thoughts wholly of YOU, the thought
system which you made would be forever dark.
</div>

We don&rsquo;t need to embellish that. It&rsquo;s a simple fact.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Were your thoughts wholly of YOU, the thought system which you made
would be forever dark.
</div>

In fact, their darkness is what you complain about.

You know, you have movies which are called dark comedies. Well, the
ego&rsquo;s life is a dark comedy. It&rsquo;s asinine. It is not the
purpose or function of your existence to be experiencing darkness. And
the answer to the darkness; the release from the darkness is
accomplished by a very simple act: An act of inclusion; by seeing
outward and by being conscious of what is there.

Consciousness is an act of embrace. Creation is described as God
creating everything and at the end God saw everything that He had made.
It was an act of embrace&mdash;an act of inclusion and it was an act of
Self-recognition.

It&rsquo;s time to give up selfishness. It&rsquo;s time to learn to give
up selfishness. It&rsquo;s time to recognize when you&rsquo;re
practicing selfishness. And one of the things that you might not
recognize and identify as selfishness is the experience of suffering:
&ldquo;I&rsquo;m not feeling well today,&rdquo; or &ldquo;I&rsquo;m
having a real hard time being anything other than absolutely angry with
so and so!&rdquo;

This is an indication to you&mdash;it can be an indication to you that
you&rsquo;re engaged in selfishness&mdash;that you are practicing the
opposite of embrace. And it can, as I said last week, serve to remind
you to change what you&rsquo;re doing&mdash;to change from self-serving
interests to an act of recognition and embrace of your brother with the
intent of finding God there Being all there is to your brother. So that
in your willingness to recognize and acknowledge It in your brother,
that acknowledgement will come through you provided by the Father and
bless you with the awareness that it&rsquo;s the truth about you as
well. This is a very simple principle. It&rsquo;s the way it works and
it&rsquo;s the solution to the human condition.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The thoughts which the mind of God&rsquo;s Son projects have all the
power that he gives to them. The thoughts he shares with God are BEYOND
his belief, but those he made &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in other words, the thoughts he made &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; ARE his beliefs.
</div>

Again, the thoughts you share with God are beyond your belief. But those
you make are your beliefs.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And it is THESE and NOT the truth that you&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; he &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; has chosen to defend and love.
</div>

That&rsquo;s always the case when you&rsquo;re in the mode of
selfishness&mdash;of self-serving, of doing things for yourself; of
making a profit for yourself especially at the expense of a brother.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The thoughts &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; God&rsquo;s Son &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; shares with God are BEYOND his belief, but those he made ARE
his beliefs. And it is THESE, and NOT the truth, that he has chosen to
defend and love.
</div>

Now this is very important:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
They will not be taken from him.
</div>

Your beliefs and your insane treasures will not be taken from you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
But they can be GIVEN UP by him&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; by you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; for the Source of their undoing is IN him.
</div>

Is in you. They won&rsquo;t be taken away from you. But you can put them
down any time you&rsquo;re sick and tired of the results of selfishness
of the pain that you experience; of the discomfort you experience, all
as a result of having everything backwards and being self-centered, when
seeing is always outward.

Now, the Source of their undoing is in you. What is it? It&rsquo;s the
Holy Spirit. It&rsquo;s that which is nothing more than your right Mind.
It&rsquo;s the Presence of God in you that you couldn&rsquo;t get rid of
even though you chose to ignore It and claim a different, shall I say,
list of ingredients that constituted you. Nevertheless, the Source of
their undoing is in you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is nothing IN the world to teach him that the logic of the world
is totally insane, and leads to nothing. Yet in him &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; who made this insane logic there is One Who KNOWS it leads to
nothing, for He knows everything.
</div>

Well, I know it would be nice for you to think that it was the Father or
the Son or the Holy Spirit&mdash;Somebody different from you but very
close to you. Because then you wouldn&rsquo;t have to take
responsibility for what you&rsquo;re experiencing and you wouldn&rsquo;t
have to take responsibility for changing. You wouldn&rsquo;t have to
take responsibility for giving up what doesn&rsquo;t really work.

You could talk about the need to give them up. You could talk about the
need for change. But you could be like the people at the pool spoken of
in the Bible, who waited for an Angel to come and move the waters and
then be the first one to get into the waters after the movement
occurred. And in the meantime when the movement didn&rsquo;t occur,
&ldquo;Well, here I am, things aren&rsquo;t going too well, I&rsquo;m
suffering, yes but you know, I am steadfast in my intent to be here the
very next moment the Angel touches the water and causes it to move.
I&rsquo;m very devoted to my healing. I&rsquo;m very devoted to my
improvement.&rdquo;

But you see, it&rsquo;s really convenient to have the improvement be at
the hand of something other than yourself. It also means that, because
you put the responsibility off on somebody else or something else or
circumstances; you never get your freedom right away, when you could
have it right away, because the culprit is a decision you have made in
your mind that you are abiding by.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The thoughts which the mind of God&rsquo;s Son projects have all the
power that he gives to them.
</div>

So we&rsquo;re talking about doing something different with your
thoughts. At the bottom line, we&rsquo;re not saying improve your
thoughts. At the bottom line, I&rsquo;m saying abandon your thoughts.
I&rsquo;m saying become still. Go within to the Altar and ask of God or
the Holy Spirit what the truth is that will uncover what is not true to
you so that you might spontaneously stop valuing it, since seeing the
truth of it will make it valueless to you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Any direction which will lead you where the Holy Spirit leads you not
goes nowhere.
</div>

Again:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Any direction which will lead you where the Holy Spirit leads you not
goes nowhere.
</div>

Being in second gear, neutral&mdash;being in this place where you in
your own right and on your own are thinking your own
thoughts&mdash;being in that place and acting from that place is to go
in a direction which will lead you where the Holy Spirit is not leading
you. And it will not go anywhere even though you have thought it has
been leading you somewhere important.

And this is perhaps the most difficult lesson to learn in the process of
Awakening because you have to realize that the basic premise for your
actions has been faulty. But there is a correct one which is available
to you. It is a Source called the Holy Spirit, which you now have
learned is nothing more than your right Mind and is therefore very
intimately connected with you. And in fact, constitutes you in your
integrity, meaning that you have an integrity that was set in place, you
might say, in the act of Creation&mdash;the Movement of God&mdash;and is
therefore unalterable. And what that means in practical terms, is what
you will begin to experience as you wake up.

Again:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Any direction which will lead you where the Holy Spirit leads you not
goes nowhere. Anything you deny which He knows to be true you have
denied YOURSELF&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; remember again, the thoughts which the mind of God&rsquo;s Son
projects have all the power that he gives to them. So anything you deny,
which the Holy Spirit knows to be true, you have denied yourself. And
you have denied it with all the power that you give to it by virtue of
actually being the Son of God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Anything you deny which He &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; knows to be true you have denied YOURSELF, and He &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; must therefore teach you NOT to deny it.
</div>

&ldquo;Oh-h, but denying it is essential to my being who I am and what I
am. And it&rsquo;s essential to my becoming what I plan on becoming. And
it&rsquo;s essential in order for me to be able to arrive at the
position in the world that I have chosen for myself. So, Holy Spirit,
you&rsquo;re going to teach me how to deny it? And you&rsquo;re going to
expect me to embrace what you&rsquo;re saying willingly, easily? You
think I am a fool? I know too much about how things work to attempt what
you&rsquo;re asking.&rdquo;

Again:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Anything you deny which He knows to be true you have denied YOURSELF,
and He must therefore teach you NOT to deny it. Undoing IS indirect, as
doing is.
</div>

Remember, I mentioned last week that the ego is a defense mechanism. A
frontal attack against the ego will always fail, because the ego is an
expert at avoiding truth because it denies truth and that is its
function.

Now, as a result, the undoing of the ego will always be indirect. And
the Holy Spirit knows perfectly how to do that.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Undoing IS indirect as doing is. You were created only to CREATE,
neither to see NOR do.
</div>

In other words, you were not created for the purpose of making your mark
on the world. You were not created to do big things. You were not
created to see.

You were created to be conscious. And to be conscious of what? The
Movement of Mind which is God in the act of Creation&mdash;to
acknowledge It and recognize It for what It is.

You&rsquo;re not created to do Creation, but to be the awareness of It
and the acknowledgement of It. God is making His mark on the world, you
might say. That would be a description of Creation. You have no such
function.

Now, to &ldquo;see&rdquo; and &ldquo;do&rdquo; &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
These are but indirect expressions of the will to live, which has been
blocked by the capricious and unholy whim of death and murder that your
Father shared not with you.
</div>

In your dream, in your fantasy of being an independent entity, it has
become your function to do things. It embodies, in a distorted way, the
will to live, which could be described divinely as the urge, the impulse
of Mind to be conscious, and, in that impulse, creating, forming
something to be aware of&mdash;an idea, which to the mind that forms it,
as I&rsquo;ve said before, is perfectly tangible and substantial and
real, even though it is pure Spirit.

The impulse to Be is also the impulse to be conscious. And when you
abandon second gear&mdash;when you abandon the orphanage, when you
abandon the idea of being an orphan yourself&mdash;you will find that
there&rsquo;s nothing for you to do except embrace everything and
recognize God in it. And know that your embrace and recognition of it is
part of the movement of Creation Itself&mdash;an act which you are
involved in because you are the offspring of God, from whom God has
withheld nothing of what He Is.

And in this realization, you will abandon the idea that you must do
things. And that doing things are what give identity to you and give you
credibility and give you respectability and give you substance and give
you reality on your own. You&rsquo;ll give that up. Your function will
be different, which is part of the reason that, as you hear more and
more what constitutes Awakening, it sounds perhaps, less and less
interesting. Why? Because you see that there will be no ego hit gotten
from it. And at this moment ego hits are crucial to your meaningful
existence.

Nevertheless, this is part of the essential learning that you will
learn&mdash;that you will move through.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have set yourselves the task of sharing what can not BE shared.
</div>

In other words, your ideas; your slant on things; your definitions of
things. And of course, always the definitions you give to everything
will relate back to you and your sense of your importance or your lack
of importance because you are the center of your attention in second
gear&mdash;in neutral.

In neutral everything revolves around you. And every aspect of your
conscious awareness is colored by that fundamental basis for
understanding yourself.  

When you are in first gear, God is the Center of Attention. &rdquo;Oh,
dear, leaves poor little orphan out.&rdquo; Well, that&rsquo;s the way
little orphan would see it. But the fact is that when you shift to first
gear&mdash;where God is the center of attention&mdash;you, as
God&rsquo;s Son or Daughter, appear in the picture in a way that
can&rsquo;t be violated; in a way that can&rsquo;t be altered; in a way
where you can&rsquo;t misunderstand the fullness and wholeness and
divinity of your Be-ing in any way.  

And so, you regain your Self in the act of letting God be the center of attention.
Why? Because you&rsquo;re inseparable from God. You are not God, but God
is All There Is to you. You are inseparable from God.  

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have set yourselves the task of sharing what cannot BE shared. And while you
think it possible to LEARN to do this, you will not believe all that IS
possible to learn to do.
</div>

I promise you, all of your goals for yourself, no matter how grand you
think they are, are infinitesimal relative to what you could learn if
you chose to learn from God, instead of from your puny imagination.

I promise you that even your best concepts of yourself are nothing in
the face of what your Self actually Is.  Now, I can tell you this and
you can say, &ldquo;Well, you&rsquo;ll have to show me.&rdquo;

No, that isn&rsquo;t the way it works. I can tell you about it. I can
point your attention in the right direction. But you are the one who has
to arrive at a point of devaluing your commitment to your best
definitions and your best creations. You&rsquo;re going to have to
arrive at a point where you are clear enough in your mind that
you&rsquo;re sick and tired of suffering, that it just isn&rsquo;t worth
it anymore to experience a low-grade pain or a low-grade suffering, even
though it&rsquo;s not killing you.

What is the point? Why hold on to your best pet theories, if all
they&rsquo;re going to do is keep you experiencing like a low-grade
fever, low-grade suffering.

You will have to arrive at a point where you actually say to yourself…
No, where you don&rsquo;t say anything to yourself again and you say
something to the Father. You say, &ldquo;Father, reveal to me the more
of what is here for me to experience than what I&rsquo;ve been allowing
myself to experience by virtue of holding on to my own imaginative
definitions of everything. I want to have the experience of wholeness. I
want to have the experience of harmony. I want to experience the absence
of stress, not just for an afternoon, but forever.&rdquo;

Continuing:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit, therefore, must begin His teaching by showing you what
you can NEVER learn. His MESSAGE is not indirect, but He must introduce
the simple truth into a thought system which has become so twisted and
so complex that you cannot SEE that it means nothing. HE merely looks at
its foundation and dismisses it. But YOU who cannot undo what you have
made cannot see THROUGH it. It deceives you because you chose to deceive
yourselves. Those who choose to BE deceived will merely attack direct
approaches, which would seem but to encroach upon deception and strike
at it.
</div>

Yet, nobody likes to become disillusioned. &ldquo;Let me wrap myself up
in my illusions and let me keep them. Don&rsquo;t snatch them away from
me!&rdquo;

Now, you might look at this and say, &ldquo;Why Raj, why Jesus do you
have to speak so negatively about me? You say,&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Those who choose to be deceived &hellip;
</div>

&ldquo;I didn&rsquo;t choose to be deceived. Why cast me in such a
negative light?&rdquo; There&rsquo;s the self-defense, the self-centered
ego activity, as though it&rsquo;s all about puny little you instead of
about the truth.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Those who choose to be deceived &hellip;
</div>

Well, you do choose to be deceived. It&rsquo;s not enough for me to say
that though. How are you deceiving yourselves? You are deceiving
yourselves by ignoring that you have a Source beyond you, that you
didn&rsquo;t make yourself, that you have always been in
partnership&mdash;if I may put it that way&mdash;with the Source of your
Be-ing, which the Course speaks of as being co-creators.

And you deceive yourselves by refusing to let a different point of view
in.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Were your thoughts wholly of YOU, the thought system which you made
would be forever dark.
</div>

You see&hellip; The correction of the fact that you choose to be deceived, lies
in your abandoning your aloneness, abandoning your orphanhood,
abandoning neutral&mdash;second gear. And in abandoning it, discovering
that third gear will vanish as well because you have shifted your
attention to first gear&mdash;to that which is nothing more than your
right Mind; to that which is nothing more than the wholeness of you that
is perfectly sane and has always been.

So I must tell you, so that you&rsquo;re not deceived, that you in fact
deceive yourselves and there&rsquo;s a way to prove it. The way to prove
it is to consciously shift to first gear and find out for yourself.

I&rsquo;m waiting. The Holy Spirit, that is nothing more than your right
Mind, is waiting for you to relent as well, and yield to It/your Self.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Those who choose to BE deceived will merely attack direct approaches,
which would seem but to encroach upon deception and strike at it.
</div>

Well, you see, I&rsquo;ve been very direct. I&rsquo;ve said you are
deceiving yourselves whether you meant to or not you are and you have
been. And it&rsquo;s important and absolutely necessary for you to
understand that. But you see, I&rsquo;m not attacking it, I&rsquo;m just
shining the light on it so that you may look at it.

I&rsquo;m not going to try to get you to stop. There&rsquo;s no way I
could force you to stop. But I can invite you to do something which you,
through the use of your will, can act upon. And, of course, the will
that acts upon it won't be the ego in you or the ego sense of yourself.
That which will will to act upon it, will be That of you which is
experiencing Its Sanity, and It will risk the chance that in abandoning
second gear, the real you will not disappear and you will not lose
everything that is meaningful but you will in fact gain Meaning in its
infinite fullness and the experience will be awesome and it will be
worth it.

But you will have to do it. And you won&rsquo;t do it if I don&rsquo;t
say,

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Those who choose to BE deceived &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; like you.

I&rsquo;ve got to tell you that there&rsquo;s a different experience
awaiting you. Your Birthright is different from what you&rsquo;re
experiencing.

And it&rsquo;s time to test the spirits, whether they are of God or
not&mdash;the spirit of deception, the spirit of loneliness, the spirit
of orphanhood, the spirit of independence, the spirit of autonomy. Check
these out and see whether they are of God or not.

How do you check them out? Well, you don&rsquo;t go and examine them.
You do something irrelevant to them. Here&rsquo;s where the indirectness
is, you do something irrelevant to them&mdash;you do something
irrelevant to orphanhood, you do something irrelevant to establishing
new and better mutually agreed upon definitions between you and the
other orphans. And you give your attention to first gear.

And you give your attention to first gear with the intent of letting God
be the center of interest&mdash;the focal point. How? By going on a
quest to find God, or by looking at each and everything that&rsquo;s in
your experience with a curiosity to see ultimacy in it, because ultimacy
is there, because if there&rsquo;s anything there at all it has to be
God.

And like a hologram, all of what is in the hologram is in every part of
the hologram. And all of what God is, is in what appears to be every
part of Creation.

And as we said last week, your reason for doing this has to be a
blessing, it has to be as a gift you&rsquo;re giving to a
brother&mdash;the willingness to look into your brothers eyes and
remember God. Now, I have included all of Creation and said to look at
any aspect of it for the purpose of remembering God.

But you know what? The one and only most important thing for you to look
at and remember God&mdash;as a result of looking at it&mdash;is your
brother or sister. Why your brother or your sister and not just a
flower, or a tree, or a planet, or a universe? Very simply: The
fundamental, the basis, the underlying ground of neutral, second gear,
is what?&mdash;self-centeredness, egotism, self-aggrandizement.

Now I ask you, who of you who is hearing My Voice is in competition with
the wall in your bedroom? Who of you asserts your superiority over the
carpet on your floor? Who do you compete with for position? [Chuckling]
Well, whoever it is, that&rsquo;s the one you&rsquo;ve got to look in
his eyes and remember God, because that&rsquo;s the one that will keep
you from waking up.

The gift of love to your brother is the gift that will invalidate
neutral gear, the independent place.

So this week I invite you all to continue to persist and notice when
you&rsquo;re being self-centered, notice when you&rsquo;re being
selfish, notice when you want everything to revolve around you. And
likewise, take time to notice when you&rsquo;re uncomfortable, or when
you&rsquo;re experiencing distress. And take a look and see whether or
not at that moment you&rsquo;re being self-centered.

You might be saying, &ldquo;Damn her, she&rsquo;s pissing me off!&rdquo;
Well, [chuckling] look at important you! &ldquo;Huh?&rdquo; She
shouldn&rsquo;t piss you off? Oh dear, important one. You don&rsquo;t
think it&rsquo;s self-centered, even when you&rsquo;re bitching at
someone else? Catch it! You really need to pay attention, because
it&rsquo;s all these tiny little, chicken shit habits that keep you
bound because you enact them, [snapping fingers] just like that, without
a thought, even though you&rsquo;re sitting there saying, &ldquo;I want
to wake up and I want to abandon second gear.&rdquo;

You&rsquo;re going to abandon your wish to shift to first gear, because
its habit. And other people trigger your habit. And circumstances
trigger your habit. Because you&rsquo;ve set the traps up! You&rsquo;ve
put the triggers there. And if anybody trips that trigger, you&rsquo;re
going to react. It&rsquo;s not because they did it. It&rsquo;s because
those are the particular triggers you said you valued and you laid out,
just waiting for someone to trip.

So, am I being mean? No. I&rsquo;m telling you the way it is, so that
you might easily look at it and say, &ldquo;Okay. I&rsquo;m not really
going to attack those habits. But you know what? Today I&rsquo;m going
on vacation from those habits. And I&rsquo;m going to do something
irrelevant over here. I really am going to&mdash;for as long as
I&rsquo;m able&mdash;I&rsquo;m going to look at everything and
constantly ask my Guide or the Holy Spirit or the Father, &lsquo;What is
the Truth here? What is the more of reality that&rsquo;s here that
I&rsquo;m not seeing?&rsquo;&rdquo; You see?

Don&rsquo;t confront the habits. Disregard them for as long as you can.
And then when you notice that you&rsquo;re uncomfortable or you&rsquo;re
distressed or you&rsquo;re put out or you&rsquo;re pissed off, say,
&ldquo;Oops, okay, I&rsquo;m squarely back in second gear. I&rsquo;m
squarely back where I cannot be anything but uncomfortable. And I
don&rsquo;t have to be here.&rdquo;

So, you abandon, you disregard the habits you suddenly reinstated and
you shift back to asking, &ldquo;God, Holy Spirit, what is the more of
reality that&rsquo;s here than what I&rsquo;m seeing?&rdquo;

Why? So that you might become full of knowledge ahead of everyone else?
No. So that you might be filled with the experience of truth that
constitutes Knowing, that causes you to be nothing other than the
Presence of acknowledgement! &ldquo;Wow! This is incredible. Reality is
unspeakably incredible. And it has filled me. And even if I should lose
the experience of It, I will be changed forever because of the
experience of It.&rdquo;

You do it because you want to know the truth. Persist with Me. And
persist with the Holy Spirit&mdash;that is nothing more than your right
Mind. And turn to It often, everyday. And do what Paul has done.

When Paul got up this morning, his voice wasn&rsquo;t working. He spoke,
but there was only whispers. And many times during the day&mdash;from
second gear&mdash;he said, &ldquo;Well, I can&rsquo;t do this. I
can&rsquo;t do this.  I&rsquo;m not going to be where everyone can see
and hear me with my voice sounding like this? What kind of an impression
will that make?  Everyone will say, &lsquo;You see how second gearish
[chuckling] it is.&rsquo; Oh yes. So they&rsquo;re very self-centered,
right?

&ldquo;What will everyone think of me? I will be making a fool of
myself. Why would I do that in the name of truth? Why would I expose
myself to ridicule?&rdquo; That&rsquo;s what Paul in second gear thought
like. But there was a point at which something of Paul that wasn&rsquo;t
in second gear, came into play.

There was something of Paul that wasn&rsquo;t in second gear, that came
into play. And it was this Awareness: &ldquo;More than anything else I
wish to give voice to the Voice for truth no matter what my voice sounds
like.&rdquo; And although habit kicked back into play and he fussed with
Me and he argued against doing what would be obviously unwise, like,
&ldquo;Well what kind of a demonstration is this, that I&rsquo;m in
touch with Jesus? What kind of a demonstration of credibility? What kind
of demonstration of integrity is this? Why expose what appears to be an
inconsistency?

Well, let Me tell you something. He didn&rsquo;t come to this conclusion
in so many words, but what he realized was that it was inconsistent. The
inconsistency would have come into play if he had said, &ldquo;I do not
wish to give voice to the Voice for truth because my voice sounds so
awful.&rdquo; Mm-m, egos everywhere could understand that. Why make a
public asshole of yourself if you don&rsquo;t have to.  Just cancel the
meeting. Next week your voice will be fine!  What? And let a week go by
without giving voice to the Voice for truth because of how it will look?
Again, how second gearish! Do you see?

So, be willing to be the Place where truth comes through your awareness
no matter how well or how polished you might be at expressing It, no
matter what it might look like to someone else.

There are some people who may never have tuned in before or may never
have heard any other CD of a meeting, who will listen to Paul&rsquo;s
voice tonight and say, &ldquo;My goodness, what a voice that man
has.&rdquo; You see? [a little chuckle]

So remember, your brother is worth every effort you bring to giving
voice to the Voice for truth.

I Love You. And I look forward to being with you next week.

[^1]: T13.5 The Testimony of Miracles

