---
title: Feb 24, 2008
ref: "T13.6 The Happy Learner"
alink: "/acim/text/13/chap1306/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*The Happy Learner*[^1]
</div>

There&rsquo;s a possibility that by the end of our conversation tonight,
you will wonder why, since the subject is &ldquo;The Happy
Learner,&rdquo; you feel so unhappy. You&rsquo;re likely to say,
&ldquo;Gee, I could have watched the Academy Awards and enjoyed
myself!&rdquo;

But I&rsquo;ll tell you something: The section we&rsquo;re reading
tonight is extremely important. And its importance could escape you,
because generally speaking, it sounds rather pleasant. But it requires
taking a deeper look at what it&rsquo;s meaning. It requires taking a
deeper look so that actual transformation within you can occur or can,
at the least, be triggered&mdash;initiated.

Now, it says &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit needs a happy learner, in whom His mission can be
happily accomplished.
</div>

And I&rsquo;m sure all of you would say, &ldquo;Wow, well that&rsquo;s
me! I&rsquo;m here, I want to learn. Absolutely. I&rsquo;m eager! And
then the next sentence says &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You who are steadfastly devoted to misery must first recognize that you
ARE miserable and NOT happy.
</div>

Well, so much for the happy learner that was all ready.

Again, &ldquo;Gee whiz, now you&rsquo;re telling me that I&rsquo;m not
happy and that I&rsquo;m in misery? Why do you cast my being in such a
negative light?&rdquo;

Well, it&rsquo;s very important. And I and the Holy Spirit have the same
task. I&rsquo;m going to continue here &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit cannot teach without this contrast&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; why? It doesn&rsquo;t say &ldquo;why,&rdquo; I&rsquo;m saying
&ldquo;why.&rdquo; And it continues &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; for you believe that misery IS happiness.
</div>

&ldquo;Well, what do you mean I believe misery is happiness?&rdquo;

Well, let me ask you this: Don&rsquo;t you enjoy having the opportunity
every day to figure things out? Don&rsquo;t you enjoy the prospect of
problem-solving and coming up with solutions that make positive
differences in your community or in your marriage or your family or
whatever? Don&rsquo;t you take great pleasure in doing things
successfully all by yourself?

You take pleasure in that. In fact, you&rsquo;ve been taught to take
pleasure in that. You&rsquo;ve been taught that it&rsquo;s a reason for
pride. You&rsquo;ve taught that it&rsquo;s a reason for self-respect.
And you&rsquo;ve taught that engaging in it is a source of respect for
you from others.

So&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You who are steadfastly devoted to misery must first recognize that you
ARE miserable and NOT happy. The Holy Spirit cannot teach without this
contrast, for you believe that misery IS happiness.
</div>

You believe that isolation, that being a self-starter, that being an
authorizer is the reason for happiness. It is an act of happiness. You
are convinced that being an orphan successfully is cause for joy, and
you reach for the carrot every day. And like the carrot that dangles in
front of the horse or the donkey or whatever fool will try to get it;
your goal hangs in front of you unreachable. But because you&rsquo;re
getting the joy&mdash;the hit of going for it&mdash;you don&rsquo;t
recognize that you&rsquo;re attempting something impossible. And
therefore, the joy that you expect to attain will never come. And the
self-respect from persistently going after the carrot will ultimately,
once you&rsquo;ve come to your senses, prove to you that you have been a
fool&mdash;not someone worthy of respect.

And if this doesn&rsquo;t become clear to you, you will continue to go
for the carrot. You will continue to strive to become something in your
own right without acknowledging a source other than yourself. That is
the source of the human condition. That habit is the cause of misery. It
is that which absolutely inhibits your having the experience that
it&rsquo;s your Birthright to be experiencing. And although you have
conditioned yourself to get hits&mdash;to gather kudos, to get gold
stars&mdash;for your persistence and the reliability of your
dependability at continuing to strive for the goal, the point is that
you will have to arrive at a point where you abandon what is foolish
because Someone has illustrated to you that it does not work. And
therefore, to persist in it is foolish and that the conditioning that
has allowed you to fool yourself into feeling good about yourself is not
only undependable, it is a case of complete mis-direction, where you
have been told that something can happen that can&rsquo;t happen; that
something will happen that can&rsquo;t happen.

And you have been fooled into going for the goal. And no matter how
foolish it makes you feel or look to yourself when you take a look at
the truth, you must be willing to take a look at the truth so that you
will stop; so that you will understand that you&rsquo;re not happy; so
that you will know the difference between happiness and unhappiness;
happiness and misery.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit cannot teach without this contrast, for you believe that
misery IS happiness. This has so confused you that you have undertaken
to learn to do what you can NEVER do, believing that UNLESS you learn
it, you will not be happy.
</div>

That&rsquo;s why you keep going for the carrot. You think you are
learning something. You think you are learning how to get the carrot.
You think you&rsquo;re learning how to get the prize. If you realized
that there was no learning awaiting you, you would stop dead in your
tracks like an intelligent horse or an intelligent donkey, and you
wouldn&rsquo;t take another step trying to get something you
couldn&rsquo;t get. And you would no longer justify it by saying,
&ldquo;If I do this, I am becoming respectable!&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You do not realize that the foundation on which this most peculiar
learning goal depends means ABSOLUTELY NOTHING.
</div>

You may have been taught to be a self-made man or a self-made woman. If
you&rsquo;re a modern woman you&rsquo;ve taken on that motto&mdash;you
have a right to it as much as a man does&mdash;and you&rsquo;ve been
fooled by it as much as men have. You&rsquo;ve been taught to be a
self-made man or a self-made woman.

Such an idea is absolutely meaningless. But you have filled it with
meaning. And you have wrapped it around you. You&rsquo;ve used it to
gird up your loins. You&rsquo;ve stuck it up your back-bone and you have
plowed forward with enthusiasm&mdash;with gusto&mdash;and with pride and
self-satisfaction.

But again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You do not realize that the foundation on which this most peculiar
learning goal depends means ABSOLUTELY NOTHING. It DOES make sense to
you.
</div>

Everything I&rsquo;ve been talking about does make sense to you. In
fact, it makes so much sense to you that at times you&rsquo;re likely to
doubt if I&rsquo;m telling you the truth. You are likely to doubt that
what I&rsquo;m telling you is in any way practical or helpful. Some of
you may even take it as proof that A Course In Miracles is nothing but
b.s. and shouldn&rsquo;t be paid attention to. That&rsquo;s how much
sense it makes to you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Have faith in nothing, and you will FIND the &ldquo;treasure&rdquo; that
you sought.
</div>

You will value nothing. Whatever of nothing that you&rsquo;ve made a
treasure of, you will value as though it were something.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Have faith in nothing, and you will FIND the &ldquo;treasure&rdquo; that
you sought. Yet you will add another burden to your mind, already
burdened or you would have not sought another.
</div>

In other words, you&rsquo;ve been going along&mdash;you&rsquo;ve been
going after the carrot. You&rsquo;ve been going after the carrot for
quite awhile. But you&rsquo;re still full of energy and still full of
willingness to go for it and now somebody shows you another carrot.
&ldquo;Oh, well I&rsquo;m going to go after that carrot too! I mean I
might as well not only get my Masters I might as well get my PH.d so I
can really be important in the world and I can really be recognized as
somebody intelligent and worth listening to. And because I&rsquo;m
recognized as intelligent and worth listening to, I will be able to
reach more people with real help that I am able to give because
I&rsquo;m so intelligent.&rdquo; You see. [sighs]

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you will add another burden to your mind, ALREADY burdened or
you would have not sought another.
</div>

You see, you&rsquo;ve already been burdened by a task you can&rsquo;t
succeed at. And the fact that you are going after the carrot in the
first place means you&rsquo;re not at peace are you? In other words,
you, as the wonderful stallion or mare that you are, can&rsquo;t just
stand there in the pasture in the fullness of being, perfectly at peace.
&ldquo;No-no-no, Give me a carrot to chase!&rdquo; You see? And then,
&ldquo;Give me a second carrot to chase! Chasing the carrot makes me
happy. Getting the carrot will make me happier. But What? Wait a
minute…just stand in the pasture and just eat the green succulent grass
without a carrot chase? You&rsquo;re telling me that that would be
enough&mdash;that I can feel my peace and I can feel fulfillment doing
what? Nothing? [chuckling] When I could be doing something like chasing
a carrot?&rdquo; You see, you don&rsquo;t see that chasing the carrot is
what constitutes doing nothing. And you are so confused, that being in
your peace where the fullness of Being can be experienced, isn&rsquo;t
nothing. That to you, in your confusion, looks like nothing.

Again, going back near the beginning &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You who are steadfastly devoted to misery &hellip;
</div>

[snaps fingers] Gotta get the carrot, gotta get the carrot, gotta get
the carrot!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You who are steadfastly devoted to misery must first recognize that you
ARE miserable and NOT happy.
</div>

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Have faith in nothing and you will FIND the &ldquo;treasure&rdquo; that
you sought. Yet you will add another burden to our mind, ALREADY
burdened or you would not have sought another. You will believe that
nothing is OF VALUE, and WILL value it. A little piece of glass, a speck
of dust, a body or a war are one to you. For if you value ONE thing made
of nothing, you HAVE believed that nothing can be precious, and that you
can learn how to make the untrue TRUE.
</div>

You see, there&rsquo;s the crux of it there. You think that you can
learn how to make the untrue TRUE.

If the Holy Spirit is going to reveal truth to you so that you are not
confused, so that enlightenment can occur, you must arrive at a point
where you&rsquo;re willing to at least consider the fact that you have
been engaged in trying to make the untrue, true. And you think you have
accomplished it and therefore, you are in a state of insanity. Your mind
is not clear and you are experiencing something you would not embrace
for a moment in your right Mind; in other words, if you weren&rsquo;t
confused.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and again, remember, the Holy Spirit is nothing more than your
right Mind, or your right Mind is nothing less than the Holy Spirit.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit, SEEING where you are but KNOWING you are elsewhere,
begins His lesson in &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; simplicity with the fundamental teaching that TRUTH IS TRUE.
This is the hardest lesson you will ever learn, and in the end the ONLY
one.
</div>

Why do you think you listen to yourself all day long instead of the Holy
Spirit? Because you trust yourself. And you trust what you think and you
trust your definition of truth. You trust your definition of something.
And you trust your definition of nothing. You trust that going after
the carrot is something. And you trust that being in your peace and
being whole in the middle of a wonderful pasture with luscious green
grass is nothing&mdash;holds nothing of ultimate value for you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Simplicity is very difficult for twisted minds.
</div>

Oh, I know, I&rsquo;m saying you have twisted minds again, you
know&mdash;casting you in this bad light again. No. If confusion exists
though, it deserves to be lifted. You deserve to be cleansed of it. You
deserve to have an experience of clarity rather than confusion.

So, simplicity; the simplicity that truth is true; the simplicity that
something is something and nothing is nothing and never the twain shall
meet.

That &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Simplicity is very difficult for twisted minds. Consider all the
distortions you have made of nothing; all the strange forms and feelings
and actions and reactions that you have woven out of it.
</div>

&ldquo;Why you know what? The mare over at the next farm said turnips
are better than carrots.&rdquo; Boy, wouldn&rsquo;t you give your right
hoof for a turnip now? Aren&rsquo;t you insulted that all you&rsquo;re
being offered are carrots? See? You see how convoluted insanity can
become? How silly it can be and how such silliness can arouse emotions
of disappointment&mdash;of dislike for the one who is presenting you
with carrots, indignant that your owner doesn&rsquo;t respect you enough
to give you something as good as turnips like the owner two farms down?
You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Consider all the distortions you have made of nothing; all the strange
forms and feelings and actions and reactions that you have woven out of
it. Nothing is so alien to you as the simple truth, and nothing are you
less inclined to listen to.
</div>

What do you mean I&rsquo;m not willing to listen to it? What do you mean
I&rsquo;m less inclined to listen to it?

Well let me ask you this: Just think back on today or you can think
about any other day you want, but just think back on today. I want you
to pay attention to what was going on in your mind&mdash;in your mind,
not between you and others. What was going on in your mind? Was it a
monologue or was it a dialogue? If it was a monologue, then you are less
inclined to listen for the truth. If it was a monologue, you were
self-satisfied; you were satisfied with your way of looking at
things&mdash;your way of determining the meaning of what was going on.

Even if you were distressed, you enjoyed mulling over in your mind the
details&mdash;the sordid or ugly details that justified your being
upset. And you kept yourself upset with some satisfaction by mulling
these thoughts over in your mind. And such activity certainly was
private. Because if you had joined with the only One, or Ones that you
could have joined with, they would have been Awake and would have
clarified things for you so that you didn&rsquo;t use your mind in the
same way.

It certainly would have deprived you of the satisfaction of engaging in
self-righteous indignation. It would have deprived you of the twisted
meandering ideas that constituted of making something out of nothing.
And in the joining, it would have done away with the apparent presence
of an independent, autonomous mind&mdash;namely yours, namely
you&mdash;and would have placed you in a context of
unity&mdash;togetherness, not isolation. It would have moved you to gear
number one, first gear, which as we&rsquo;ve been discussing, is the
undoing of the human condition.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Nothing is so alien to you as the simple truth, and nothing are you less
inclined to listen to.
</div>

Oh-h, you know, as you think back over today, maybe you did once or
twice ask the Holy Spirit a question or ask your Guide, &ldquo;What do I
need to know here?&rdquo; But then very quickly, it became a monologue
again. You were only inclined to listen momentarily. But for most of the
day you were quite satisfied with doing your own thinking; coming to
your own conclusions.

Now, I&rsquo;m going to be very blunt here. When you&rsquo;re thinking
by yourself, when you are thinking period, you are engaged in nothing.
And when you are thinking for the purpose of coming to conclusions which
will provide you with a basis for acting in the world, you are intending
to be in the world in a way that is unintelligent and will be
destructive.

You must understand that when you operate in second gear, which
automatically brings third gear into play, you are doing nothing but
creating illusions, promoting illusions, and attempting to affect your
brothers and sisters to join you in doing nothing while thinking that
they are doing something. In other words, you are promoting insanity.
You are promoting the human condition which, by virtue of your studying
the Course, you say you want to wake up from. And what this is saying
here, is that you&rsquo;re not going to wake up unless you&rsquo;re
willing to become a happy learner. And you&rsquo;re not going to become
a happy learner unless you learn the difference between happiness and
misery. And that means until you learn that, as long as you are thinking
by yourself, you are in misery believing that it is happiness and you
are lost. And everything you do promotes your lostness and confirms the
lostness of others to them as long as they&rsquo;re on the same
wavelength you are.

What you&rsquo;re doing is so unconstructive that you must see it for
what it is. Because until you see how detrimental it is, you will not
lower the value you are placing upon it. Until you reduce the value
you&rsquo;re placing upon your way of being at this moment, you will not
have an experience of the distinction between happiness and misery. And
you will not be able to make an intelligent choice. You won&rsquo;t make
an intelligent choice because at the moment you&rsquo;re quite satisfied
with the status quo.

And you think that waking up must mean something other than what
I&rsquo;m talking about. Something that won&rsquo;t require you to have
dialogue going on in your mind instead of a monologue. That it will mean
something other than no longer getting joy from the attempt to be an
autonomous authorizer of good in your world; something other than
arriving at a point where you can stand alone in your own right being
recognized for the worthwhile one that you are. You think that it&rsquo;s
got to mean something. You think that&rsquo;s what it&rsquo;s got to mean. 
I&rsquo;m telling you that is not what it&rsquo;s got to mean.

Now, it might seem to you that I am saying, that at the moment you have
no justification for being happy, because you aren&rsquo;t in touch with
your guide yet, so therefore you&rsquo;re lost. Well, you could adopt
that attitude. It&rsquo;s a case of the whiner horse. You know,
&ldquo;Well, I don&rsquo;t even have a pasture with green grass to stand
in. All I have is a smelly, dirty stall. Oh me, I&rsquo;m lost! What
you&rsquo;re telling me simply condemns me to perdition, to an ending
lack of fulfillment.&rdquo;

Hey, if you like the hit that gives you, go ahead, adopt that attitude.
Hey, if you are not in touch with your guide, if you have not had the
experience of connecting with the Holy Spirit&mdash;that which is
nothing more than your right Mind&mdash;then strive a little harder. In
other words, instead of persisting at what won&rsquo;t work, instead of
persisting at making nothing something, persist at making something,
something, persist at giving your attention to that which is Real.

I&rsquo;ll tell you one thing: If you reduced the amount of thinking by
fifty percent that you do on any given day, and just managed to be in
the quiet, in the silence, in the peace, you would begin to recognize
that the silence wasn&rsquo;t just the absence of anything, but that it
is the presence of peace, that the emptiness is full of something quite
Holy. And your life would have incredible changes occurring in it.

Now, again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Nothing is so alien to you as the simple truth, and nothing are you less
inclined to listen to. The contrast between what is true and what is not
is PERFECTLY apparent, yet you do not see it.

The simple and the obvious are not apparent to those who would make
palaces and royal robes of nothing, believing they are kings with golden
crowns because of them. All this the Holy Spirit sees, and teaches,
simply, that all this is not true.
</div>

The Holy Spirit sees what you believe and knows the truth
simultaneously. And because the Holy Spirit, that which is nothing more
than your right Mind, sees what you believe and knows the truth, it
perfectly and artfully provides the distinction between the two to you.
So that the gap between what is true and what is not true, between what
you believe and what is true, can be closed and you can shift your
devotion to what is true. That is the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s function. The
function of your right Mind is to bring you back into the experience of
your right Mind.

Again, and I&rsquo;m repeating a lot tonight because these sentences are
not alarming in any way and they don&rsquo;t even in themselves sound
significantly important and yet they are key factors.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The simple and the obvious are not apparent to those who would make
palaces and royal robes of nothing,
</div>

[Chuckling] Those who would create an image of worth by virtue of the
persistence with which he chases after the carrot and never gives up.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The simple and the obvious are not apparent to those who would make
palaces and royal robes of nothing, believing they are kings with golden
crowns because of them. All this the Holy Spirit sees, and teaches,
simply, that all this is not true. To these unhappy learners who would
teach themselves nothing and delude themselves into believing that it is
NOT nothing, the Holy Spirit &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that which is nothing more than your right Mind &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; says, with steadfast quietness:

&ldquo;The truth is true. Nothing else matters, nothing else is real,
and everything beside it is not there. Let Me make the one distinction
for you which you cannot make but need to LEARN. Your faith in nothing
IS deceiving you. Offer your faith to Me, and I will place it gently in
the holy place where it belongs. You will find NO deception there, but
only the simple truth. And you will love it because you will UNDERSTAND
it.&rdquo;
</div>

What the Holy Spirit has invited you to do there is to engage in
ongoing, unending dialog with It, which will mean that monologues will
be a thing of the past in your mind. You see, it&rsquo;s easy to think
when dealing with spiritual or religious subjects or theories, that the
world is what it is, but with some religious or spiritual teaching, you
can experience a better life without fundamentally changing anything,
because of course, the way things are is the way things are.

That very mindset, that very belief structure embraced by anyone and
believed and committed to, will constitute an absolute block to the
experience of anything different from what it says, and will lock you
into a human condition; an experience of misery which you will be able
to find meaning in and ultimately be able to value. And in so doing, you
will lock yourself into suffering and you will do absolutely nothing to
relieve your brothers and sisters of the same suffering they&rsquo;re
experiencing.

Is it your goal to be such a presence? Is it your goal to actually be an
agent for maintaining the status-quo and then devoting your life to
finding ways to make the status-quo meaningful? Is that your goal? No,
of course, it&rsquo;s not your goal, but that is what you&rsquo;re
engaged in.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Like you, the Holy Spirit did not MAKE truth. Like God, He KNOWS it to
be true. He brings the light of truth into the darkness, and LETS it
shine on you.
</div>

What does that mean? It means that, that which is nothing more than your
right Mind, brings your right Mindedness to your confused mindedness and
lets It shine on you. Your right Mind shines Its integrity, Its
holiness, and Its inseparableness from God on you, illuminating to you
what you really Are.

That&rsquo;s what the Holy Spirit does. But it escapes your attention
when you&rsquo;re engaged in monologues. When you&rsquo;re not engaged
in monologues because you&rsquo;ve had enough common sense to see that
what you&rsquo;re doing isn&rsquo;t working but isn&rsquo;t worth
feeling guilty for, so that you are totally immobilized, you happily
engage in dialog.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And as it&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; shines your brothers see it, and realizing that this light is
not what you have made, they see in you more than YOU see.
</div>

They see in you more than you see in you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
They will be happy learners of the lesson which this light brings to
them because it teaches them RELEASE from nothing and from all the works
of nothing. The heavy chains which seem to bind them unto despair they
do not see as nothing until you bring the light to them. And THEN they
see the chains have disappeared, and so they MUST have been nothing. And
YOU will see it with them. BECAUSE you taught them gladness and release,
they will become YOUR teachers in release and gladness.
</div>

When you find your brother worthy of your abandoning your knee-jerk
responses to them and definitions, and you do the two-step and you say,
&ldquo;Father, what is the more of what You&rsquo;re Being right here
where my brother is than what I&rsquo;m seeing?&rdquo; And you are
infilled with the experience of the truth, the simple truth about them.
It becomes spontaneously communicated.

And we&rsquo;ve discussed the fact that what you give you get to keep.
Why? Because the one you gave it to gives it back in praise and
acknowledgement of the more of what God is being right where you are,
than what they were seeing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you teach anyone that truth is true, you learn it WITH him. And so
you learn that what seemed hardest was the easiest. Learn to be happy
learners. You will NEVER learn how to make nothing everything. Yet see
that this HAS been your goal, and RECOGNIZE how foolish it has been.
</div>

You see. You recognize how foolish it has been but you don&rsquo;t let
the foolishness of it become a judgment against you that immobilizes you
and inhibits you from being glad it is undone.

It says here:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You will NEVER learn how to make nothing everything. Yet see that this
HAS been your goal, and RECOGNIZE how foolish it has been. Be glad it is
undone&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you see. Don&rsquo;t get stuck in recognizing how foolish it
has been.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Be glad it is undone, for when you look at it in simple honesty, it IS
undone. We said before, &ldquo;Be not content with nothing,&rdquo; for
you HAVE believed that nothing could content you. IT IS NOT SO.
</div>

The carrot will never satisfy, because the carrot will never be reached!
The goal of reaching it will never be achieved.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you would be a happy learner, you must give EVERYTHING that you have
learned over to the Holy Spirit to be UNLEARNED for you.
</div>

That means that all of the satisfaction you get from mulling over your
difficult situation or your difficult relationship; and all of the
self-righteousness that you get to pleasure in while you&rsquo;re doing
this, it means that all this you must turn over to the Holy
Spirit&mdash;all of your monologue you must set aside by giving it to
the Holy Spirit.

What does that mean? It means, acknowledging that you&rsquo;re not going
to engage in this anymore. You&rsquo;re going to give it to the Holy
Spirit and let the Holy Spirit share with you what is real about it or
what isn&rsquo;t real about it. And you will listen for what the Holy
Spirit wishes to speak about, which probably won&rsquo;t be about what
you turned over to Him.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you would be a happy learner, you must give EVERYTHING that you have
learned &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; as in unhappy learner, because you were doing all of the
learning by yourself &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; over to the Holy Spirit to be UNLEARNED for you. And then begin
to learn the joyous lessons that come quickly on the firm foundation
that truth is true. For what is builded there IS true, and BUILT on
truth. The universe of learning will open up before you in all its
gracious simplicity. With truth before you, you will not look back.
</div>

Now, what I want to be indelibly clear tonight is that when you are
thinking, when a monologue is going on in your mind, nothing is
happening, except that a belief that something is happening is
growing&mdash;growing in a deluded mind, growing in a mind that
doesn&rsquo;t actually exist. And when the Presence of God, namely You,
engages in doing nothing, believing that something is being done, it is
either a cosmic comedy or a cosmic tragedy&mdash;neither of which are
Real, however.

How can something that is the Movement of God be the absence of the
Movement of God? How can you make something out of nothing; by trying to
be nothing, by trying to be the absence of Presence, by trying to be
that which is not the Presence of God? That&rsquo;s what I mean. When
you&rsquo;re trying to be the presence of something on your own and you
are trying to be the absence of the Presence of God, you&rsquo;re trying
to be the absence of Presence. Absolute nonsense! As long as you get
pleasure out of it, as long as you have found ways to believe that
something of value is going on, you will not abandon it.

So, what needs to be utterly clear is, that when you have a monologue
going on in your mind, when you are connecting with nothing, when you
have a monologue going on in your mind, you are creating the experience
of misery. You are creating the experience of misery, no matter how much
value you think you are getting from it, no matter how much supposed
pleasure you are getting from it. And this misery that you are creating,
you are creating for yourself and for everyone you are influencing.
Doing this will keep you bound!

At the moment you are not happy learners&mdash;Occasionally you are, but
not with commitment, not fully. And it&rsquo;s important for you to
become happy learners. And you will become happy learners the moment it
becomes clear to you that what you are engaged in, all by yourself, is
misery and has apparent effects which you do not want to be responsible
for.

I am putting it in these terms so that you might have justification for
making commitment to be a happy learner, to stop letting monologues
occupy your mind. And to start saying, &ldquo;Father (or Holy Spirit)
what do I need to know here?&rdquo; And then listen to the very best of
your ability. If you do not hear and action is required, do the very
best you can, but don&rsquo;t abandon the questioning and the listening.
Don&rsquo;t abandon the persistence in asking for the Holy
Spirit&rsquo;s help, because it is the function of that which is nothing
more than your right Mind, to close the gap between what you believe and
what is true, so that you might no longer suffer from ignorance; from
believing what isn&rsquo;t true, and promoting it as valuable and
meaningful.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The universe of learning will open up before you in all its gracious
simplicity. With truth before you, you will not look back.
</div>

In order to become a happy learner you must become disillusioned. You
must be willing to abandon illusions. You must be willing to allow
illusions to be taken away from you by virtue of the Holy Spirit
disclosing the difference between what is Real and what isn&rsquo;t,
what is true and what isn&rsquo;t. So that what isn&rsquo;t true will be
in no way attractive to you any longer, and so that you may be in a new
way.

You may think that learning to listen to the Holy Spirit is a learning
device or a temporary means of growing and moving across some important
threshold of spiritual growth, which eventually you won&rsquo;t need to
do because you will have gotten over the threshold. You may also look at
it as just a different activity. Um-m, you know, you could be interested
in pursuing aeronautics, or you could be interested in pursuing space
travel, or you could be interested in pursuing spiritual growth. And you
could think that that&rsquo;s all this is. And you happen to be
interested in spiritual growth.

But it is more than this. It is the difference between being asleep and
waking up. It&rsquo;s a difference between existing in a state of
unreality, of confusion, and being fully Awake; fully Alert, Clear;
experiencing the flawlessness and perfection of Creation without
alteration of any kind&mdash;in which, perhaps, aeronautics and
traveling through the universe will be engaged in, because you can do
it, because you&rsquo;re Awake.

I encourage you to read what we&rsquo;ve covered tonight during this
coming week. I encourage you not to be reluctant to look squarely at the
degree to which you value being an unhappy learner. And you will know
the degree to which you&rsquo;re willing to be an unhappy learner by the
amount of time during each day that monologues are going on in your
mind, where the Holy Spirit or your Guide have not been invited into the
consideration of whatever you would think about all by yourself, so that
clarity from a larger perspective can be brought into play. And needless
suffering, caused by ignorance on your part, can be avoided&mdash;can be
released. And healing can be had.

Waking up isn&rsquo;t a matter of having new things to think about,
it&rsquo;s a matter of Being in a New Way! And that&rsquo;s what this is
all about.

And I look forward to being with you next week.

[^1]: T13.6 The Happy Learner

