---
title: Mar 2, 2008
ref: "T13.6 The Happy Learner"
alink: "/acim/text/13/chap1306/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

Well, I&rsquo;m not going to ask you whether you had a pleasant or
unpleasant week, noticing how much of the time you spent in dialogue and
how much of the time you spent engaging in monologues. But I&rsquo;m
going to ask a question before we begin. It&rsquo;s the really big
question.

What is the carrot you are chasing?

If you&rsquo;re not awake, you are chasing a carrot. Find out what that
carrot is and you&rsquo;re on your way home. What is the carrot you are
chasing?

Now, I always take the opportunity to squelch whatever opportunities any
of you take to say that the Universe doesn&rsquo;t exist; to say that
the world isn&rsquo;t real; to say that it&rsquo;s all an illusion. And
last week, there was an opportunity that all of you had to say,
&ldquo;Yes, it says right here that the world isn&rsquo;t real.&rdquo;

So let&rsquo;s become clear. We read &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Have faith in nothing, and you will FIND the &ldquo;treasure&rdquo; that
you sought.[^1]
</div>

You will find nothing to value. It doesn&rsquo;t mean that you will find
nothing to value, that you&rsquo;ll look everywhere and you won&rsquo;t
be able to find anything to value. It means, have faith in nothing as
though it&rsquo;s something and then find value in it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Have faith in nothing, and you will FIND the &ldquo;treasure&rdquo; that
you sought.
</div>

Now, before I continue further, let&rsquo;s understand something that we
have discussed before, but it might be overlooked at the moment.

It is this: When you said, &ldquo;Father, I would rather see it my way.
Father, I would rather do it my way,&rdquo; and you got a divorce from
your Father, that in effect, was when you moved from first gear to
second gear&mdash;second gear, being neutral; this place, this gear in
which you can simply be you in your own right&mdash;where you can just
be you on your own; not in relationship to your Father, you might say,
not in relationship with your family, but you, in your own right.

We&rsquo;ve talked about the fact that the moment you abdicate your
place in first gear and settle into second gear, you spontaneously bring
into play third gear&mdash;the voice for fear/guilt. Now, you then
spend your time attempting to become free of fear and guilt while still
remaining in neutral&mdash;second gear.

Now, well you can close your eyes if you want, do whatever helps you
imagine. I want you to imagine that you are in the middle of Creation.
You are the uncontested Son of God, Daughter of God, I mean by that, you
haven&rsquo;t contested your Birthright and Inheritance by claiming a
position of your own yet, in neutral.

And so, all of Creation&mdash;all that the Father Is, as the Infinite
Mind in which all of Creation is occurring and is embraced&mdash;you
experience all of Creation as Light forms, if I may put it this way,
energy patterns that look like something. They not only look like
something, they feel like something because they have
Meaning&mdash;Meaning that the Father has embodied in Light and in
color, and in outline and in form. But the Substance of it all is
Spirit. The Substance of it all is Love. And the experience of any
aspect of Creation, is for lack of better words, seen, felt, heard
simultaneously with far more definition you might say, than anything
you&rsquo;ve experienced so far.

And because the Substance of all of Creation is Love, it is an
experience of Infinite Love which you&rsquo;re not a small part of; it
is the all-encompassing Presence of what you Are, because you are
God&rsquo;s Offspring. You are that which God has withheld nothing of
what He is, from.

And so there is no confusion of any sort present. Injury, illness,
disease, death; these are meaningless; meaningless
words&mdash;meaningless concepts. Harm is an impossibility.

But now, when you, this uncontested Son or Daughter of God says,
&ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;d rather see it my way, I&rsquo;d rather decide
what everything means. I am going to get a divorce from You and strike
out on my own.&rdquo; Good choice of words because of course, you have
&ldquo;struck out.&rdquo; However, the goal was to strike out on your
own and take on the mantle of authority to name and give meaning to all
of Creation yourself.

Now, if you will, imagine that as you said this to the Father and made
commitment within yourself, all of the light emanating from and which
was the substance of every aspect of Creation, diminished.

And so, the object of Creation, you might say, appeared to become dark
and dense&mdash;impenetrable, with no transparency through which light
and color could be emitted. And all substance, which is truly Spirit and
love and life and truth itself, and the embodiment of Soul and
Principle, and so on; all of it became apparently lifeless, at least by
comparison with its actuality&mdash;its reality.

And you began to experience it as what? As matter. It&rsquo;s that
simple. When you abandon first gear, where you are listening to the
Voice for truth and you take a seat firmly in neutral, second gear,
which brings third gear into play, all of Creation remains untouched by,
unaltered by your decision to see it all by yourself. It remains
unchanged, but to you it has become something new. It has become
something it is not.

You are thus looking at, experiencing, [wraps knuckles on table]
feeling, smelling, hearing something which isn&rsquo;t there.
You&rsquo;re seeing matter. You&rsquo;re seeing your definition.
You&rsquo;re seeing the meanings you have given to it or the things that
you still need to give meaning to. Its eternality you have lost. Its
indestructibility now escapes you. Its benign but loving, generous gifts
of itself that it is constantly pouring out and blessing you with, is
going unnoticed by you.

You are experiencing a distorted perception of reality. And what you are
experiencing isn&rsquo;t real and therefore is nothing. It is nothing!

The Somethingness of everything, being unavailable to you, everything
has become not what it is and therefore, nothing.

Now, as you look around at all of this nothing, which is simply your
misperception of the Kingdom of Heaven, you have what you think is an
opportunity to have faith in it&mdash;to have faith in what you&rsquo;ve
defined everything as.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Have faith in nothing, and you will FIND the &ldquo;treasure&rdquo; that
you sought. Yet you will add another burden to your mind, ALREADY
burdened or you would not have sought another. You will believe that
nothing is OF VALUE, and WILL value it. A little piece of glass, a speck
of dust, a body or a war are one to you.
</div>

You see, it doesn&rsquo;t say in here that a little piece of glass is
nothing. It doesn&rsquo;t say that a speck of dust is nothing. It
doesn&rsquo;t say that a body is nothing. And it doesn&rsquo;t say that
a war is nothing. It says that they are one to you.

I&rsquo;m going to ask you, how many of have taken intelligence tests
where they give you a multiple list of items or a list of numbers and
they say to you, &ldquo;Which one doesn&rsquo;t belong?&rdquo; And it
will give you a list like: New York, Pennsylvania, Florida, Washington,
Los Angeles. Which one doesn&rsquo;t fit? Well Los Angeles doesn&rsquo;t
fit because Los Angeles is a city and all of the others are states.

Well, when you read this, did you notice something strange? It says
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You will believe nothing is OF VALUE and you will value it. A little
piece of glass&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; okay, that&rsquo;s the first thing on the list &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; a speck of dust&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; second thing on the list &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; a body &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; third thing on the list &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; or a war are one to you.
</div>

Which one doesn&rsquo;t fit? Well obviously, war doesn&rsquo;t fit
because it&rsquo;s not an object. So, did Helen make a mistake when she
was listening for what to write down? Or was that on purpose?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
A little piece of glass, a speck of dust, a body or a war are one to
you.
</div>

No mistake there. Because we&rsquo;re not talking about Reality where
the Substance of everything is Spirit&mdash;Love. We&rsquo;re talking
here about matter. We&rsquo;re talking here about how Creation is
experienced through the lens of finiteness&mdash;of limitation; through
the eyes, you might say, of one who has abandoned his infiniteness and
given his allegiance to the partial; who has abandoned wholeness, so
that he might see in part and value the parts and define the parts and
learn how to arrange the parts for the benefit of that which is an
orphan and has no inheritance, no birthright.

Your blindness to the reality of everything as Spirit constitutes a way
of experiencing and seeing everything as though it is matter. And this
distortion of perception gets applied to everything whether it fits or
not. Behavior can be added to a list of objects and the misperception
associated with the objects becomes applied to the behavior. And the
misperceptions regarding behavior can be applied to objects. And this is
one of the ways in which confusion becomes compounded and insanity
increases.

A little piece of glass, a speck of dust, and a body are identifiable
objects. Their substance is Spirit. Reality applies to them. They are
Real. And when you shift back to first gear, the Light of Living Love
that illuminates them truly will be seen once again by you.

Whereas war, which is not an object, and is a behavior justified and
engaged in by one who sees through the lens of guilt and fear, it will
be nowhere to be found because when second gear is abandoned for first,
third gear simply dissolves.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
A little piece of glass, a speck of dust, a body or a war are one to you
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; if you&rsquo;ve gotten a divorce from the Father and if you
have given definitions to everything and you are committed to abiding by
the meanings you&rsquo;ve applied to everything you&rsquo;ve defined.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
A little piece of glass, a speck of dust, a body or a war are one to
you. For if you value ONE thing made of nothing, you HAVE believed that
nothing can be precious and that you can learn how to make the untrue
TRUE.
</div>

Now, don&rsquo;t ever use that paragraph again as a justification for
saying that the world isn&rsquo;t real or the world doesn&rsquo;t exist.
It doesn&rsquo;t exist as what you have defined it as. It doesn&rsquo;t
exist as the matter that it appears to be which only appears that way
because you have chosen to look at it through a lens of distortion
because you have taken up residence in second
gear&mdash;neutral&mdash;and have abandoned that gear in which no
distortion is present in you.

Now why would you want to make something out of nothing, like, oh, a
piece of glass? Well, we&rsquo;ll see here &hellip; if you could take a
piece of glass and in making of the glass, you could refine it so
greatly that there were no impurities in it causing no interference to
the refraction of light as it passes through it, you could create a
relatively excellent artificial diamond that would look lovely in a ring
or a necklace without having to spend the money that it would cost to
have real diamonds. And so, if you could do that, you could sell it to
those who couldn&rsquo;t afford real diamonds. And you could make a lot
of money. You could benefit from it. You could prove that there was
value in a piece of glass.

But I&rsquo;m going to tell you something: If you could take a piece of
glass and give it to someone and help them see the Light of Living Love
that is there, because there can&rsquo;t be matter, there is only the
Substance which is Spirit, you would have given a gift far surpassing
what you currently call a diamond which you would give more value to
than the most excellent piece of glass faceted like a diamond.

Now, what I&rsquo;m trying to bring out here is, if you will come to a
point where you will believe that nothing is of value and will value it,
there has to be a reason why you would do that. Well, you might say,
&ldquo;Not necessarily. It&rsquo;s just a mistaken act based upon the
belief of being an orphan. It&rsquo;s something that I&rsquo;m
misunderstanding because I&rsquo;m being affected by third gear. Fear
and guilt are taunting me. They&rsquo;re trying to make me believe that
I should make a profit at the expense of my brother and that I can
misuse the piece of glass. And all I have to do to wake up is to learn
how to handle this piece of glass in a way that doesn&rsquo;t constitute
usury and mistreatment of my brothers and sisters, and work with these
pieces of glass in ways that are so loving that they inspire the people
who buy them to likewise behave lovingly and with kindness and to be
inspired to do things in their life differently so that we&rsquo;re all
managing to become free of guilt and fear and are doing nothing any
longer that is motivated by guilt and fear.&rdquo;

You see? You could disagree with me and say that. And in fact, for the
most part, students of truth are doing that. To a greater degree than is
acceptable, it is being done. To a greater degree than is constructive,
it is being done.

Now again, there&rsquo;s a reason that everyone is trying to learn how
to exist in neutral&mdash;second gear&mdash;without being governed by,
influenced by, affected by, or motivated by guilt and fear. And what
that reason is, is illuminated in the answer to the question,
&ldquo;What is the carrot you are chasing? What is the carrot everyone
is chasing?&rdquo;

Very simply, the carrot you are all chasing is the same carrot Pinocchio
was chasing. Pinocchio wanted to become a real boy. You, who have moved
from home&mdash;first gear to second gear&mdash;who have disowned your
Birthright, your Parentage, and who have established for yourself, a
state of orphan-hood, have one goal. And that is: To overcome your
orphan-hood without declaring Who your real Father/Mother is. You want
to become real. You want to become valid.

The only way you can achieve validity from second gear, from neutral; is
to establish mutual agreements with everyone else by virtue of your
behavior, and by virtue of you influencing them so as to curry favor
from them, so that they will join an ever-growing group of orphans who
all agree that you are wonderful; that you are worthwhile, that you are
worth the maximum respect that they can extend to you. Why? So that you,
by virtue of your excellent, independent behavior, might achieve the
state of truth where you are as real as God.

That is the carrot you are all chasing.

Now, Pinocchio was a puppet. But you are not. Pinocchio was not a real
child upon whom a spell was cast, who suddenly was transformed into a
puppet, who had an initial preexisting birthright as a real child, to
regain. But you, every single one of you, are real by virtue of having
been a real child of God, co-creator with God, before you decided to
explore the possibilities of imaginatively being an independent creator
in your own right.

Now, if you watched Pinocchio and he looked like a real child, behaving
like a puppet; and behaving like a puppet that wanted to become a real
child (never having been one) it would be laughable and at the same time
extremely sad because the behavior would be a pure example of
insanity&mdash;a real child behaving like he was a puppet trying to
become a real child. All the time he would be engaged in trying to
become a real child, he would be missing out on the experience of being
the real child that he had never stopped being.

Now, it&rsquo;s very important for you to understand that this is the
carrot you are chasing. You are trying to become Real. Because you have
adopted a belief which you have made commitment to, that you are less
than Real. The definitions you have given to everything, or the
definitions that have been passed on to you that you have embraced, say
that you are a fluke of nature that comes and goes like the Springtime
sprouting of grass and the Summer browning and dying of the grass in the
seasons, you come and go.

And you believe that. But you don&rsquo;t believe it because it makes
you sad to really embrace that idea. And so you live in this constant
state of reaching for life but feeling sad in the act of it because,
&ldquo;Ah-h, Summer will come and I&rsquo;ll wither and die.&rdquo; And
it&rsquo;s not the truth! And such beliefs and such behavior and such
attitudes that you govern yourself by are little bits of nothing that
you have picked up; little bits of falsity, little bits of materialism
that you have picked up and stood in awe of, and wonder. And you have
valued it.

But please understand, that the raw materials from which you gather
these awful meanings and definitions, are always some aspect of reality.
You know, in chemistry you have your atomic chart, all the elements. And
they are what they are. And with them you can understand the constituent
parts of everything. But if you can&rsquo;t see the light emanating from
the elements, if you can&rsquo;t experience the living Presence of God
in those elements, that chart is a description of nothing. It&rsquo;s a
description of something that&rsquo;s causing you to miss the point if
you&rsquo;re not looking beyond it. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Have faith in nothing&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; like the atomic chart &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and you will FIND the &ldquo;treasure&rdquo; that you sought.
Yet you will add another burden to your mind, ALREADY burdened or you
would not have sought another.
</div>

If you weren&rsquo;t already confused and not fulfilled you
wouldn&rsquo;t continue to look for more things to do to earn the right
to be Real, to be a Real boy or a Real girl.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You will believe that nothing is OF VALUE, and WILL value it. A little
piece of glass, a speck of dust&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; oxygen, gold and so on, on the chart &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; a body or a war are one to you. For if you value ONE thing made
of nothing, you HAVE believed that nothing can be precious, and that you
can learn how to make the untrue TRUE.
</div>

That&rsquo;s it! The goal is to make the untrue true. The goal is to
make the orphan that you are, real, when that which is behaving as
though it&rsquo;s an orphan trying to be real is the Son of God, who is
Real and needs to stop trying to be real and, as I said last week, stand
in the pasture in your peace long enough for the reality of you to
register with you because you&rsquo;re not chasing off after another
carrot.

Now, isn&rsquo;t that wonderful to know what the carrot is that
you&rsquo;re chasing after?

Now, as we read at the end last week &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you would be a happy learner, you must give EVERYTHING that you have
learned over to the Holy Spirit to be UNLEARNED for you. And then begin
to learn the joyous lessons that come quickly on the firm foundation
that truth is true.
</div>

What is the truth that is true? That you are the direct present
expression of God&mdash;the Life Force, the Life Principle, the Life
Presence&mdash;Presence-ing Itself right now, is responsible for you
right now. That&rsquo;s the truth that is true. And knowing that truth
and embracing that truth is the way you stop chasing the carrot of
trying to become worthy of respect and of value in the eyes of others
and becoming something valuable, as though you hadn&rsquo;t been in the
first place.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For what is builded there IS true, and BUILT on truth. The universe of
learning will open up before you in all its gracious simplicity. With
truth before you, you will not look back.
</div>

You see? Can you see that? The moment you realize that you are Real, and
you never were an orphan having to strive to validate himself, you will
stop behaving like an orphan trying to validate itself. You will not
look back at the old way you did things.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The happy learner &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; which is what you become when you stop doing the things that
are the evidence of being an unhappy learner &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The happy learner meets the conditions of learning here, as he also
meets the conditions of knowledge in the Kingdom.
</div>

In other words, simultaneous with your meeting the conditions of
knowledge in the Kingdom, where everything is known and there is nothing
to be learned, at the same time that begins to unfold as your conscious
experience, you as the apparent happy learner, meets the conditions of
learning here, as you shift from insanity to sanity.

So, you could say, that as you shift from insanity to sanity the happy
learner meets the conditions of learning as he also meets the conditions
of knowledge or Knowing in the Kingdom.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
All this lies in the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s plan to free you from the past,
and open up the way to freedom for you. For truth IS true. What else
could ever be, or ever was? This simple lesson holds the key to the dark
door which you believe is locked forever. You MADE this door of nothing,
and behind it IS nothing. The key is only the light which shines away
the shapes and forms and fears of nothing. Accept this key to freedom
from the hands of Christ Who gives it to you, that you may join Him in
the holy task of bringing light to darkness.
</div>

I give to you through the Course and I give to you through My being with
you in this way. I give you the key to freedom. The key to freedom is
the conscious awareness that you are not something invalid working
toward validity, but that you are a holy Son of God believing that you
are something valid, moving toward validity without ever truly
remembering who you Are in your divine status.

I&rsquo;m here giving you the keys; the understanding, the insight, the
light that will cause you to invalidate what has been keeping you in
bondage.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Accept this key to freedom &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; from My hands &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; from the hands of Christ Who gives it to you, that you may join
Him in the holy task of bringing light to darkness.
</div>

You see, when you&rsquo;re in second gear, you&rsquo;re trying to bring
the darkness to the light, you&rsquo;re trying to bring your ignorant
creations to a point where they gain the status of being real. And it
doesn&rsquo;t work that way.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Accept this key to freedom from the hands of Christ Who gives it to you,
that you may join Him in the holy task of bringing light to darkness.
For, like your brothers, you do not realize the light has come, and
FREED you from the sleep of darkness.
</div>

You don&rsquo;t realize that what you divinely are is already present.
It has already come. It never left. But you left the awareness of it in
favor of imagining a state of orphanhood that you believed would give
you the opportunity as an autonomous presence to become an autonomous
creator in your own right. You see?

Now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Behold your brothers in their freedom&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; where did that come from? Well, remember, your function is to
look into your brother&rsquo;s eyes and remember God, right?

Look into your brother&rsquo;s eyes and be willing to see God there
because it is your intent while looking into your brother&rsquo;s eyes
to see God there; to be open to the Revelation of the Presence of God
there in your brother by His, God&rsquo;s revealing it to you in your
mind, so that you might extend that conscious awareness, that conscious
realization of the divinity of your brother to your brother.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Behold your brothers in their freedom, and &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; learn of them how to be FREE of darkness.
</div>

&ldquo;What do you mean, I gotta do something to give it to them before
I get it? Well, you know human nature. He&rsquo;s gonna get it and
he&rsquo;s gonna run. He&rsquo;s not gonna stick around to give it to
me, so why should I give it to him? This is all crap! [Chuckling] This
is all based on unfairness.&rdquo;

But you see you don&rsquo;t realize that unfairness is the lens
you&rsquo;re looking through as you listen to what I&rsquo;m saying. And
the conclusions and judgments that you&rsquo;re coming to are based on
your tinyness, your small mindedness, your mean-spiritedness that you
have acquired because it helps to keep you safe in the threatening
world.

To not do what I&rsquo;m saying becomes a carrot for you to chase after,
so that you don&rsquo;t make the mistake of doing what I&rsquo;m
suggesting and giving something good to your brother that he&rsquo;ll
run off with, without returning the favor. And that little carrot is not
the main carrot is it? But it&rsquo;s supporting the main carrot. The
main carrot being, that you are going to become a real boy or a real
girl, in your own right, without a father or a mother. All of the little
carrots that you chase after support the one big carrot.

Now again, listen…because it&rsquo;s the truth:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Behold your brothers in their freedom, and learn of them how to be FREE
of darkness. The light in you will waken them, and they will not leave
YOU asleep.
</div>

I know you think you know better than Me, but the fact is that &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; The light in you will waken them, and they will not leave YOU
asleep. The vision of Christ is given the very instant that it is
perceived. Where everything is clear it is all holy.
</div>

And we could say, where everything is clear it is all spirit,
there&rsquo;s no matter.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Where everything is clear it is all holy. The quietness of its
simplicity is so compelling that you will realize it is IMPOSSIBLE to
deny the simple truth.
</div>

&ldquo;Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, the simple truth, that if I stand in the
pasture with the succulent grass, I can end up waking up without chasing
another carrot. Well, I&rsquo;m sorry, I&rsquo;m not ready to abandon
the chase. I don&rsquo;t care to believe you. Thank you very much. I
refuse to abandon the manipulation of third gear from second
gear.&rdquo;

When you say that the truth isn&rsquo;t compelling enough to adopt or to
explore, you&rsquo;re saying, &ldquo;My addiction to the chase is
paramount to me.&rdquo; Well, here&rsquo;s the interesting thing: When
you say that, you&rsquo;re saying, &ldquo;It&rsquo;s paramount to me,
little old separate me, over here, it&rsquo;s paramount to me even
though You, way over there, Big Brother are saying that my choice is
insane. And it turns the involvement between us into a contest, this
against that, me against You, You lovingly trying to change me against
my will.&rdquo; You see?

But here&rsquo;s the thing, here&rsquo;s the clincher of it,
here&rsquo;s what really matters: Whether I over there am trying to
change you, is irrelevant. In you is a gift from God, in you
irrespective of Me, whether I say anything to you or not.

Your downfall as an ego, your downfall as an insane one, the downfall of
you as a successful orphan is already in you. The divinity of you is
already there, and it is there with the intent to bring you back into
the conscious embrace of your right Mind. Its goal is healing. Its goal
is lovingly and beneficially transformational for you. And so
you&rsquo;re not fighting against Me, you&rsquo;re fighting against
yourself.

Take a look at that, because at the bottom line, that&rsquo;s not really
what you thought you were doing. And it isn&rsquo;t really what you want
to do. And if there is any truth in what I&rsquo;m saying and there is
the slightest chance that you are missing out on the conscious
experience of Reality, then you have cause for exploring the possibility
that something more awaits you; something more fulfilling, something
more integrated, something more full of integrity about you is available
for you to experience.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Where everything is clear it is all holy. The quietness of its
simplicity is so compelling that you will realize it is IMPOSSIBLE to
deny the simple truth.
</div>

You are a Real boy. You are a Real girl. You are already absolutely Real
in the fullest meaning, the most divine meaning of that word.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For there IS nothing else.
</div>

Nothing other than the simple truth.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God is everywhere, and His Son &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you, you, you, you, all of you&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is in Him with everything.
</div>

Listen to that.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God is everywhere, and His Son is in Him with everything.
</div>

The full unobstructed, conscious, experience of the totality of
Creation, in all of its actuality as Spirit, not matter; in all of its
actuality as Eternal, not temporal; incapable of imperfection, where
sin, disease and death are nonsensical terms.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Can he &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you, the son of God &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; sing the dirge of sorrow when THIS is true?
</div>

And I promise you, you won&rsquo;t be singing a dirge of sorrow. Just
remember: What&rsquo;s the carrot you&rsquo;re chasing? The carrot
you&rsquo;re chasing is the achievement of the integrity and the reality
of you in your own right. &ldquo;Well, I don&rsquo;t believe you.&rdquo;
The time will come when you will. It is the simple truth. And it is the
answer to the dream. It is the resolving of the human condition.

I love you. I love you. I love all of you.

Now stop chasing the carrot! It&rsquo;s a waste of time.

I will see you next week.

[^1]: T13.6 The Happy Learner

