---
title: Mar 9, 2008
ref: "T13.7 The Decision for Guiltlessness"
alink: "/acim/text/13/chap1307/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*The Decision for Guiltlessness*[^1]
</div>

We&rsquo;re going to begin right in the book tonight.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Learning will be commensurate with motivation, and the interference in
your motivation for learning is exactly the same as that which
interferes with ALL your thinking.
</div>

This sentence does not appear in the first and second edition. I&rsquo;m
going to read it again.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Learning will be commensurate with motivation, and the interference in
your motivation for learning is exactly the same as that which
interferes with ALL your thinking. The happy learner cannot FEEL GUILTY
about learning.

The happy learner cannot FEEL GUILTY about learning. This is
so essential to learning that it should never be forgotten. The
guiltless learner learns so easily because his thoughts are free. Yet
this entails the recognition that guilt is INTERFERENCE, NOT salvation,
and serves no useful function at all.
</div>

Is any of this making any sense to you?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The guiltless learner learns so easily because his thoughts are free.
Yet this entails the recognition that guilt is INTERFERENCE, NOT
salvation, and serves no useful function at all.
</div>

You might say, &ldquo;Well, of course! I know. It doesn&rsquo;t take a
rocket scientist to realize that guilt is interference!&rdquo; Well,
yeah, it does take a rocket scientist, and it takes you, and it takes
anyone with a little bit of a glimpse of his right Mind to realize that
you don&rsquo;t know that.

You don&rsquo;t know that guilt is interference. Why do I say that?
Because, if you&rsquo;re not awake, you are existing in a state of
disconnection from your Source. Not actual disconnection, but a
disconnection by virtue of ignorance&mdash;of ignore-ance&mdash;by
virtue of your ignoring your Source and giving preference to the idea
that you, in your own right, independent of any source, are the
authority and governor of your experience.

As we said before, when you got your divorce from your Father, you found
that your attempt to act at odds with the nature of your being, your
attempt to act at odds with the way things work, your attempt to
function at odds with Reality, always has accompanying it, a dissonance,
a warning like, as I&rsquo;ve said before, the bells on a garbage truck
or a large vehicle which ring when the vehicle is backing up, which say,
&ldquo;A condition of emergency or danger exists. Be careful.&rdquo;

The minute you try to act at odds with your Being, the unalterable
perfection of your Being reminds you that you cannot act at odds with
It, even if you choose to try.

Now, first gear, as we&rsquo;ve been discussing it, is you before you
attempt to get a divorce from your Father or disconnect from your
Source. Second gear, neutral, is where you move to &hellip; you think.
You move there in your imagi-nation when you get your divorce from your
Father and you insist upon asserting yourself wholly and fully as the
only active authority that you are going to recognize in your existence.
And so you take up residence in this second gear which is neutral.

[I have been calling it neutral. I understand this has been problematic
for some, but nevertheless, continue to work with it. Neutral is this
supposed place where you can function in your own right.]

Now, I&rsquo;ve mentioned that the moment you moved into second gear, it
brought forth, spontaneously, third gear. First gear, we&rsquo;ve called
the Voice for Truth. Second gear, neutral, we could call your attempt to
have a voice of your own, all by yourself. And third gear, which
spontaneously comes into existence when you try to establish second
gear, is called the voice for fear&mdash;the flip side of which always
is guilt.

Now, when this surprising experience of dissonance occurred&mdash;of
your Sanity providing a bell, saying, &ldquo;what you are attempting to
do is not safe for you,&rdquo; &ldquo;what you are attempting to do is
at odds with your being, and to attempt to go any further in this
direction will simply cause you to be provided with a stronger and
stronger reminder that you are attempting to do the impossible, and
don&rsquo;t waste your time&rdquo;&mdash;It became something for you to
overcome.

It was what you took on as the first challenge encountered in your state
of independence. It was a challenge for you not to yield to, but to
overcome. And so, you have created a life for yourself, an independent life
for yourself, and its purpose and intent was to overcome and become
superior to&mdash;and therefore not governed by&mdash;this threat of
&ldquo;danger,&rdquo; as you were perceiving It. Instead of using It for
Its purpose, which was to tell you to stop doing what you were doing and
go back Home, you adopted It as a challenge to overcome. And in fact,
the &ldquo;becoming equal&rdquo; to It and &ldquo;overcoming It,&rdquo;
even, has become your purpose.

Now, in not using It for Its real purpose, in not recognizing It as your
ever-present Sanity, and turning It into something to overcome, you have
turned your Sanity into fear and guilt. It&rsquo;s just the way it
works. Thus, guilt has been the driving force of your existence. Guilt
and fear, coupled together, have become the engine that motivates you,
and so in this respect, you value guilt.

I promise you, that almost without fail, any of you who succeed in
abandoning guilt, will initially feel that your life has lost purpose.
And this is because guilt has been valuable&mdash;so valuable that
you&rsquo;ve been willing to give your complete commitment and
allegiance to it. You use it on yourself and you use it on each other.
You find that it motivates you. And you have found that your, I&rsquo;m
going to say, &ldquo;skillful&rdquo; use of it on your brothers is quite
effective also for influencing your brothers and sisters and getting
them to do what you want them to do so as to make you less fearful, and
to assuage your feeling of guilt that threatens your peace.

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The happy learner cannot FEEL GUILTY about learning.
</div>

It&rsquo;s just impossible. And that&rsquo;s an interference to your
motivation for learning because your motivation for learning is the push
of guilt. Without guilt there, you think there is no motivation for
being, much less learning. And therefore, the moment you get wind of the
fact that there&rsquo;s not going to be any guilt, or any experience of
it in the process of learning, in the process of Awakening, you find
Awakening less interesting, and potentially less valuable to you. Why?
Because you don&rsquo;t know how to exist without the push of guilt
behind you. And you don&rsquo;t know how to exist without the sense of
self that you have acquired as a result of being motivated by guilt and
using guilt as a motiva-tional factor in your relationships.

Those two things give you identity &hellip; you think. And so, if you
are going to be a happy learner and the happy learner cannot feel guilt
about learning, you perceive that to be a meaningless experience which
you are reluctant to engage in. It&rsquo;s that simple.

Now let&rsquo;s go back to the beginning.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Learning will be commensurate with motivation, and the interference in
your motivation for learning is exactly the same as that which
interferes with ALL your thinking.
</div>

Now here&rsquo;s the interference:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The happy learner cannot FEEL GUILTY about learning.
</div>

Why is that interference? I&rsquo;ll say it again: Because without
guilt, you don&rsquo;t feel purpose, you don&rsquo;t feel meaning,
because once you got your divorce from your Father and attempted to
stand on your own, you used the guilt&mdash;which was really the warning
bell from your Sanity saying, &ldquo;Stop moving in this
direction&rdquo;&mdash;as justification for moving further in that
direction and it became your purpose for being. And you employ it in all
aspects of being unjoined with your Father, disconnected from your
Source&mdash;or when you are choosing to, as absolutely as possible,
ignore the fact that you have a Source other than yourself.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The happy learner cannot FEEL GUILTY about learning.
</div>

That should be good news!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is so essential to learning, that it should never be forgotten. The
guiltless learner learns so easily because his thoughts are free. Yet
this entails the recognition that guilt is INTERFERENCE, NOT salvation,
and serves no useful function at all.

You are accustomed to using guiltlessness merely to offset the pain of
guilt, and do not look upon it as having value IN ITSELF.
</div>

You use guiltlessness as a salve, you might say. You&rsquo;re feeling
guilty and you say to yourself, &ldquo;I am guiltless.&rdquo; Or you say
to your brother to console him, &ldquo;You are guiltless. You are
God&rsquo;s offspring and God could not possibly have embodied guilt in
you. Therefore the feeling of guilt that you are having is
un-justifiable and you don&rsquo;t have to be governed by it.&rdquo;

And so you use guiltlessness as a means of finessing your mind into a
greater experience of peace, while not yet abandoning second gear. You
see? You use the idea of guiltlessness to make you feel better while
you&rsquo;re still insane, while you&rsquo;re still claiming independent
selfhood&mdash;independent existence which you are in charge of and
authorizing. You see?

So you haven&rsquo;t abandoned guilt yet, because as long as
you&rsquo;re in second gear, third gear&rsquo;s there. And if you sit in
second gear and try to employ the idea of guiltlessness to make you feel
better, all you&rsquo;re doing is making second gear more tolerable
while you are still valuing third gear, which means you&rsquo;re still
valuing guilt. You see?

So, you&rsquo;re playing with guilt and guiltlessness simultaneously for
an effect that doesn&rsquo;t constitute Awakening at all, nor does it
contribute to Awakening at all.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You believe that guilt and guiltlessness are BOTH of value, each
representing an escape from what the other does not offer you.
</div>

You see, guilt doesn&rsquo;t offer you peace. Guiltlessness offers you
peace. Guilt offers you a sense of identity and purpose. Guiltlessness
does not offer you a false sense of identity or purpose. And so you
employ them both and try to find a certain equanimity, a certain
balance, while never waking up&mdash;while never engaging in anything
that will free you from the bondage of a dream of illusion.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You believe &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and I know you didn&rsquo;t think you did before we started
this paragraph, but &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You believe that guilt and guiltlessness are BOTH of value, each
representing an escape from what the other does not offer you. You do
not want either alone, for without both you do not see yourselves as
whole and therefore happy. Yet you are whole ONLY in your guiltlessness,
and only in your guiltlessness CAN you be happy. There IS no conflict
here. To wish for guilt in ANY way, in ANY form, will lose appreciation
of the value of your guiltlessness, and push it from your sight.

There is no compromise that you can make with guilt, and escape the pain
which ONLY guiltlessness allays. Learning is living here, as creating is
Being in Heaven.
</div>

In other words, learning is living here as you engage in vacating second
gear &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; as creating is Being in Heaven &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; as creating is what is in first gear.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Whenever the pain of guilt SEEMS to attract you, remember that, if you
yield to it, you are deciding AGAINST your happiness, and will not learn
HOW to be happy.
</div>

So, as long as you are valuing guilt, as long as you insist on employing
it, or as long as you insist on trying to deal with it while in second
gear, but using truths that have dawned on you from glimpses of truth in
moments of being in first gear, you will not actually be engaged in
learning. Learning occurs as you are willing to disengage from second
gear and move to first gear.

Guiltlessness. Is guiltlessness a concept? Is guiltlessness an idea? Is
guiltlessness a configuration of your mind that you can create in which
you can feel guiltless and in which you can convey guiltlessness to
others? Is it a tool? Is it anything that you can cause from second
gear? Or is guiltlessness the state of your being when you are firmly
established in first gear where God is responsible for what you Are, not
you?

Guiltlessness is not a tool. Guiltlessness is not an intellectual
arrangement of appropriate and principled and divine thoughts. Do you
know that guiltless-ness can best be described as unselfconsciousness,
where you are being without a single element of self-consciousness
occurring, where you are being directly out from the Source of your
being without any concern for how it looks to others, or whether
you&rsquo;re looking intelligent, or whether you&rsquo;re being
intelligent?

Guiltlessness is when this &ldquo;thinker&rdquo; that you think you are
is absent, and what you Are spontaneously, you might say, expresses
Itself. And in the expression, God is given manifestation, the Voice for
Truth is given voice, and there is no fear. There is no dissonance of a
bell saying, &ldquo;You are attempting the impossible. Go back. Go
back!&rdquo; None of that. And everything you find yourself being
identifies your purpose to you, defines your purpose to you. It
doesn&rsquo;t fulfill purpose that you have defined for yourself and
tried to bring into manifestation.

Now, again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Whenever the pain of guilt SEEMS to attract you, remember that, if you
yield to it, you are deciding AGAINST your happiness, and will not learn
HOW to be happy. Say, therefore, to yourself, gently, but with the
conviction born of the love of God and of His Son:

&ldquo;What I experience I will make manifest &hellip;
</div>

And I&rsquo;m going to interject here &hellip; not by virtue of some
power you have to make things manifest, but by virtue of the fact that
what you experience does manifest.

What you experience you will make manifest. It&rsquo;s just a statement
of how things work.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&ldquo;What I experience I will make manifest.
</div>

It&rsquo;s like, whether I want to or not. You see? It has nothing to do
with special authority to give or withhold.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&ldquo;What I experience I will make manifest. If I am guiltless I
have nothing to fear. I choose &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and remember, this section is called, &ldquo;The Decision for
Guiltlessness.&rdquo; A decision is a choice.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&ldquo;I choose to testify to the ACCEPTANCE of the Atonement, NOT for
its rejection. I would accept my guiltlessness by making it manifest
And SHARING it. Let me bring peace to God&rsquo;s Son from his
Father.&rdquo;
</div>

Well, there it is, spelled out to you. You want to give the gift of
guiltlessness to your brother? You need to be willing to look into your
brother&rsquo;s eyes with the desire to see what is true about
him&mdash;with the desire to see his guiltlessness. And you desire to
know of it from God, while you&rsquo;re looking into your
brother&rsquo;s eyes. You switch from second gear to first gear. You
join with the Father and you ask of the Father what His truth is.
&ldquo;What is the truth here?&rdquo; You invite the infilling of your
Father&rsquo;s perspective so that you might recognize what the Father
is revealing to you in the brother whose eyes you are looking into.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&ldquo;Let me bring peace to God&rsquo;s Son from his Father.&rdquo;
</div>

That&rsquo;s the two-step that we&rsquo;ve been talking about.

Guiltlessness is nothing you can achieve in second gear. And
guiltlessness is not something you can use in second gear. Guiltlessness
is what is&mdash;whether you like it or not, whether you deserve it or
not&mdash;when you have taken up resi-dence in first gear. When you do
that, second gear, no longer being employed, no longer seems to have
existence. And, likewise, third gear&mdash;guilt and fear. That&rsquo;s
how you access and embody guiltlessness. Not by any use of your mind
whatsoever, not by any wonderful words, but by an actual shift wherein
you embody the meaning of these words: &ldquo;I of myself can do
nothing.&rdquo;2 &ldquo;If you have seen me, you have seen the
Father.&rdquo; 3

In other words, don&rsquo;t be confused. If you have seen me, you
haven&rsquo;t seen me, you have seen the Father. The Father, being me,
is all there is of me. The Father is what is here.

That&rsquo;s what moving to first gear means. And that&rsquo;s where the
experience of guiltlessness is available. And that&rsquo;s where the
blessing of the awareness of guiltlessness fills your mind so fully that
you see it everywhere and auto-matically extend it everywhere. Not
because you&rsquo;re full of words that express guiltlessness that you
throw out into the air, but because in you there is no
self-consciousness, there is no discomfort. You do not wonder how you
appear to others. What others might think of you doesn&rsquo;t even
cross your mind. And so you are totally free to be the place where your
function can be fulfilled&mdash;the function set in place by your Father
in His expression of Himself that&rsquo;s called you.

So, continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Each day, each hour and minute, even every second, you are deciding
between the crucifixion and the resurrection; . .
</div>

&hellip; sounds ominous. Here&rsquo;s another way of saying it &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; between the ego and the Holy Spirit.
</div>

Meaning you as an orphan or that which is nothing more than your right
Mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego is the choice for guilt; the Holy Spirit the decision for
guiltlessness.
</div>

If you want to experience your inviolable guiltlessness, choose for the
Holy Spirit in you, lean into the Holy Spirit in you. Ask the Holy
Spirit in you to help you let It do Its job, by decreasing your
resistance to letting It into you and healing your tiny sense of self,
by replacing it with the infinite presence of the Mind of God that
constitutes your mind, and abandoning all attempts to make the mind you
think you have and the mind that you think you are, into some grandiose
equivalent to God, which keeps you forever bound to guilt and fear.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The power of decision is all that is yours.
</div>

Simple.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The power of decision is all that is yours. What you can decide BETWEEN
is fixed, because there are no alternatives except truth and illusion.
</div>

I&rsquo;m sure many of you in this past week have had fun discovering
how many carrots you&rsquo;re chasing, how many sub-carrots there are
that you&rsquo;re chasing that all feed the one main carrot that is your
all-important goal, which is to become a real boy or a real
girl&mdash;to become real in your own right, while still separated from
your Source as though you don&rsquo;t have a source.

And in the process of discovering how many carrots there are it might
seem that there are a whole lot of carrots to choose
between&mdash;&ldquo;well, I&rsquo;m going to choose this one,&rdquo;
&ldquo;well, I&rsquo;m going to discard that one,&rdquo; &ldquo;well
this one will help me for awhile, but I&rsquo;ve got to discard that
one&rdquo;&mdash;when there&rsquo;s only one thing that needs to be
done. There are only two choices that you have available to you: Chase a
carrot or don&rsquo;t chase a carrot.

So to hell with how many carrots there are, and to hell with how many
carrots your brothers and sisters have. It doesn&rsquo;t matter. What
matters is, are you still chasing the carrot or did you stop? Those are
the only two options you have available to you. And the only function
you can fulfill is to choose one or the other. And there&rsquo;s no way
to make that into something important. How can you make that choice
better than anyone else? How could you lord it over your brother?
&ldquo;Well, I made the choice this way!&rdquo; You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What you can decide BETWEEN is fixed, because there are no alternatives
except truth and illusion.
</div>

There are no alternatives except first gear and second gear. First gear
is a real option. Second gear, itself, is an illusion.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And there is no overlap between them, because they are opposites which
CANNOT be reconciled and CANNOT both be true. You are guilty OR
guiltless, bound OR free, happy OR unhappy.
</div>

The point is, you want to be a happy learner. And in order to be a happy
learner, you&rsquo;ve got to abandon second gear, not become better at
being in second gear. When you abandon second gear and you say,
&ldquo;Father, help &hellip;&rdquo;&mdash;when you reach out to the
Father or you reach out to the Holy Spirit, or you reach out to me, or
you reach out to your guide&mdash;you are, as I&rsquo;ve said so many
times, breaking the isolation, joining again, unifying what has been
whole all along. But you&rsquo;re consciously embracing it, consciously
acknowledging it, consciously making it true for you by no longer
denying it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The miracle &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; a sudden shift of perception &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; teaches you that you have chosen guiltlessness, freedom and
joy.
</div>

When you experience the happening of a miracle it means that you have
chosen guiltlessness, freedom and joy. The miracle &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is not a cause, but an EFFECT. It is the natural result of choosing
right, attesting to your happiness that comes from choosing to be free
of guilt.
</div>

Now, you&rsquo;re probably going to notice this coming week how much
you&rsquo;re employing guilt, how often it comes into play, how often
you wake up in the morning, and before you even stir out of bed your
mind is filled with the things that you haven&rsquo;t gotten done, that
you&rsquo;re guilty for not having gotten done, and how frightened that
makes you feel, and how that does one of two things: Either it makes you
feel like not getting up or it makes you feel like leaping out of bed so
as to get rid of these things that are causing you such distress, and
take hold of the situation and master the situation &hellip; not
realiz-ing that the answer, right there while you&rsquo;re still lying
in bed and these thoughts and feelings of guilt are occurring, is to
recognize that you are in a monologue. You see? And the answer is, right
then and there, to shift to a dialogue.

Invite the Holy Spirit in. Invite me in. Invite your guide in, so that
one who is Awake can join with you in looking at these things and
provide the perspective in which it is absolutely unnecessary to look at
them with guilt or fear which will immobilize you or scare you so
completely that it causes you to run with a vengeance to get rid of what
is disturbing you. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The miracle teaches you that you have chosen guiltlessness, freedom and
joy. It is not a cause, but an EFFECT. It is the natural result of
choosing right, attesting to your happiness that comes from choosing to
be free of guilt.
</div>

It&rsquo;s so easy to become distracted by the thoughts and feelings of
guilt that cause you to forget that the answer is to invite the Holy
Spirit in&mdash;to abandon the monologue and learn of [from] your
joining, while in first gear: &ldquo;What needs to be done?&rdquo;
&ldquo;What do we do about this?&rdquo; &ldquo;What is the
Father&rsquo;s Will here?&rdquo; &ldquo;What steps do we take
there?&rdquo; &ldquo;What identifies fulfillment of purpose now?&rdquo;
You see? You engage in this while in dialogue. And while in dialogue,
fear, anxiety and guilt will not be found. And in your peace, the steps
needing to be taken to resolve what had been frightening you when you
looked at it from second gear will be accomplished.

Now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Everyone you offer healing to returns it. Everyone you attack keeps it
and cherishes it by holding it against you. Whether he does this or does
it not will make no difference; you will THINK he does.
</div>

You might attack a brother who recognizes it as a call for love and does
not attack you back. But it will make no difference to you because the
messenger that you sent out was a messenger of attack, a messenger of
hate and it will bring back to you confirmation of the rightness of your
act. It will report back to you that something hateful is there.

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Whether he &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your brother &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; does this or does it not will make no difference; you will
THINK he does.
</div>

Again, whatever messenger you send out is the one that will come back to
you and confirm the reason you sent it out, whether there is truth to
the confir-mation or not.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is impossible to offer what you do not want without this penalty.
</div>

If you offer what you do not want, what you do not want will come back
to you. It will bring with it this penalty. So ask yourself, do you want
to decide for guiltlessness or do you want to decide for guilt? Do you
want to decide for guilt, so as to build up your sense of yourself as an
independent agent, capable of becoming real? Do you want to continue to
do that? Because when you do, the penalty will always come back to
you&mdash;the penalty of confirmation of your world being hateful, one
that you must continue to be defended against.

Is that the ongoing state of tension that you want to eternally live in?
If it isn&rsquo;t, then you must do the simple thing: Get out of second
gear. Move back into first gear. Invite God back in. Be willing to
acknowledge your ever-present Father, your ever-present Source, and
engage in dialogue. Engage in active togetherness.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is impossible to offer what you do not want without this penalty.
</div>

What you do not want, that you offer, will come back to you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The cost of giving IS receiving. Either it is a penalty from which you
suffer, or the happy purchase of a treasure to hold dear.
</div>

So again, don&rsquo;t be too quick to gloss over the fact that until you
have decided to move back to gear one, you are in a frame of mind, you
are in a mindset in which guilt is the most valuable asset you have,
because it is the discomfort you need in order to reach for the carrot.
It&rsquo;s the discomfort, the prod, the compulsiveness that will drive
you to keep going for the carrot. And as long as you are valuing guilt,
you will not be able to be a happy learner. And if you are not a happy
learner, learning will not occur.

Now, it doesn&rsquo;t matter how long you haven&rsquo;t been learning.
And it doesn&rsquo;t matter what all of the various reasons are that you
or your friends or enemies or family might be able to come up with as to
why you&rsquo;re not learning. None of that matters.

All that matters is: Are you going to decide for guiltlessness? Are you
going to dare to let yourself go through a period of transition in which
lack of purpose seems to take over, where nothing is giving you identity
in the way identity used to be derived by you, where the emptiness of
going for the carrot is absent because you&rsquo;ve given up going for
the carrot and now you don&rsquo;t know what in the hell your life is
for, and so it all seems empty?

Understand the dynamics of it. Understand that you have been getting
pur-pose out of the experience of guilt. Understand that the more
strongly you have denied your Father, the greater the experience of
guilt, because it takes the greater push from your guilt to drive you to
go the extra mile, reach the extra mile for that carrot, because now,
having more strongly denied your Father, it is more imperative for you
to have your independent identity estab-lished. And that&rsquo;s the
dynamic of it.

Understand it &hellip; not so that you can be depressed by it, but so
that it&rsquo;s so clear to you that it&rsquo;s easy to make a different
choice and make a decision for guiltlessness with motivation. And then
don&rsquo;t try to create guiltlessness. Don&rsquo;t try to conjure it
up with all kinds of guiltlessness &ldquo;talk&rdquo; or guiltlessness
&ldquo;ideas&rdquo; that you have woven into a fabric of beauty without
ever having connected with the Father, without ever having shifted to
first gear. You see what I&rsquo;m saying?

Let there be motivation to abandon the &ldquo;thinker&rdquo; in second
gear that&rsquo;s main-taining a place to be, through imagination,
called second gear&mdash;orphanhood&mdash;and make the choice for first
gear by saying, &ldquo;Father, help. Father, fill me with the conscious
experience of truth. Fill me with your Will.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Better yet, since I am learning that I never could have had a
will separate or different from your Will, help uncover to me, help
increase in me, my willingness to experience a will other than my own
personal will&mdash;the one I&rsquo;ve been using to try and get the
carrot and which has kept me entirely aloof from my sane experience of
my intelligent mind, which is your Mind, which has been your gift to me
because you have withheld nothing of what you Are in the creation of
me.&rdquo;

And then listen.

Shut up and let the Father in. Let the Holy Spirit in, so that you might
be a happy learner and so that you might actually wake up instead of
spending another lifetime talking about waking up. You see?

Don&rsquo;t be depressed. Don&rsquo;t let your egos home in on all the
things that were threatening to it and then feel bad or hopeless. I have
not said everything you&rsquo;re doing is useless and you&rsquo;re
stuck. Have I? I&rsquo;ve said that everything that you&rsquo;ve been
doing has been useless because you&rsquo;ve been doing it from a place
where you have no authority&mdash;second gear. And there&rsquo;s a way
to abandon that experience and let your fulfillment find you and infill
you, and that is by letting the Father back in. Go back to first gear.
That is a pleasure, even if it seems to be an effort to you initially
because you&rsquo;ve been doing the opposite for so long.

Engage in the effort it takes to keep yourself on the homing beacon, and
I will look forward to being with you next week. I love you. You are
loved. And the love that you are loved by sees no guilt in you. So it
doesn&rsquo;t love you in spite of your guiltiness. It loves you because
of what you already, perfectly Are. And it loves you actually fully
enough to help you disengage from the habit that you have cloaked
yourself with, of ongoing unforgiven guilt that you see no means of
being released from.

I tell you it&rsquo;s an illusion. But you just can&rsquo;t walk around
and say, &ldquo;It&rsquo;s an illusion.&rdquo; &ldquo;It&rsquo;s an
illusion.&rdquo; If you&rsquo;re saying that from second gear,
you&rsquo;re saying it from the place where guilt is still of value to
you, and I promise you that from there, guilt will seem quite real and
the penalties will seem quite real, even though they aren&rsquo;t. You
want to become free of the illusion that there is guilt, that there is
penalty for guilt and the penalty is very real. And you do that by
abandoning the place, the frame of mind, in which the illusion of
guilt is inseparable. And all you have to do, to do that, is to stop
having a monologue and say, &ldquo;Father&hellip;&rdquo; and let what
happens after that happen.

I&rsquo;ll stop for now. And again, I look forward to being with you
next week.

[^1]: T13.7 The Decision for Guiltlessness

