---
title: Mar 25, 2008
ref: "T13.7 The Decision for Guiltlessness"
alink: "/acim/text/13/chap1307/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

We&rsquo;re going to go right into the book tonight, and I&rsquo;m going
to back up two sentences:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The cost of giving IS receiving.[^1]
</div>

You give, you receive.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Either it is a penalty from which you suffer, or the happy purchase of a
treasure to hold dear.
</div>

So, how many of you collected suffering because you were unwilling to
give, because it was so much more important to you to express a
grievance? Because it was so much more important to you to get justice?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The cost of giving IS receiving.
</div>

There&rsquo;s no alternative to it. You give, you receive. And you get
what you ask for.

Now, we&rsquo;ve been discussing something, perhaps a little difficult
to swallow. We&rsquo;ve been discussing that your reason for being, so
to speak&mdash;that which motivates you&mdash;is guilt. Those of you
this week, if you&rsquo;ve been paying attention, who have received
suffering because guilt is what you gave, because the demand for justice
is what you gave, demonstrated how much you valued guilt and how
completely reluctant you were to refuse to give it&mdash;to refuse to
use guilt, to refuse to value it.

And you really have to become sober enough in your desire to wake up, to
pay attention to what you&rsquo;re giving, because what you give
involves a cost. Perhaps an unusual way of putting it, but &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The cost of giving IS receiving. Either it is a penalty that you receive
from which you suffer, or &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the cost is &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the happy purchase you receive of a treasure to hold dear.
</div>

When you give an acknowledgment of guiltlessness, of innocence, it costs
you the right and the opportunity to receive, in exchange for it,
suffering. But deeper than that, it costs you the ability to have built
yourself up into something more important by virtue of your giving. It
costs you the ability to be selfish, which is why you end up with the
happy purchase of a treasure to hold dear. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
No penalty is ever asked of God&rsquo;s Son except BY himself and OF
himself. Every chance given him to heal is another opportunity to
replace darkness with light and fear with love.
</div>

And since fear is the flip side of love, if fear is replaced with love,
guilt is replaced with innocence. And every chance you get to heal is an
opportunity to become free of fear and guilt.

Oh boy, don&rsquo;t become too depressed as you find out how much you
value guilt, how much you value applying it to others, how much you
value applying it to yourself to provide yourself with the
&ldquo;git-go&rdquo; to go for the carrot, to go for that which builds
you up, that makes you better than you were, and makes you more
respectable, makes you more important &hellip; ah-h, makes you more
real&mdash;poor little orphan boy or girl that you are.

When you choose to shift to first gear, that costs you something.
Because the only reason you shift to first gear is so that you might
give, so that you might give acknowledgement to your Father that He is
your Father and that you are not an orphan and that you want to share in
your Father&rsquo;s perspective, knowledge. Why? So that you might
extend that conscious awareness of the holiness of Being to everything
and everyone. But that costs you something. It costs you this
stimulating experience of being a &ldquo;nothing&rdquo; attempting to
become a &ldquo;something.&rdquo;

I do not mean to be somber here. Serious, maybe, but, at the bottom
line, clear, so that there&rsquo;s no misunderstanding. You are going to
have to be willing to look at your compulsive fascination with the
stimulation of suffering from lack, of suffering from not being whole,
of suffering from not being real.

What if you are real? What if you are real and you don&rsquo;t have to
prove a thing in order to be real and have the respect that something
that is real deserves? It&rsquo;s going to take a dramatic shift of
what? Perception! A willingness to see everything in a way that makes
the use of guilt unnecessary&mdash;unnecessary to establishing peace and
harmony, unnecessary to establishing worth, unnec-essary to deserving
respect, unnecessary to being perfectly healthy.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
No penalty is ever asked of God&rsquo;s Son except BY himself &hellip;
</div>

You ask for penalty by demanding justice, by employing guilt. You ask
for penalty by imagining that you&rsquo;re an orphan and enjoying the
stimulating experience of trying to become equal to One who is not an
orphan.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
No penalty is ever asked of God&rsquo;s Son except BY himself and OF
himself.
</div>

Well of course, because [chuckling] &ldquo;Oh, my, I&rsquo;m the
all-important one. And my life is devoted to proving that I&rsquo;m the
all-important one not only to myself but to everyone else!&rdquo;
Everything must revolve around that. &ldquo;I must create for myself a
real identity.&rdquo; And so, you ask for penalty. But &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Every chance given him &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; God&rsquo;s Son &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; to heal is another opportunity to replace darkness with light
and fear with love.
</div>

In other words, every chance given to you to heal is an opportunity to
make a new decision, a decision for guiltlessness, which would &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; replace darkness with light and fear with love. If he &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; God&rsquo;s Son &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; refuses it, he binds himself to darkness because he did not
choose to free his brother, and enter light with him.
</div>

Who is it you&rsquo;re going to extract penalty from if it&rsquo;s not
your brother? And if you are perverted enough to extract penalty from
yourself, it is in all like-lihood that you are extracting penalty from
yourself for appearance sake, to your brother or even God&mdash;penance.

If you refuse the opportunity to heal, you bind yourself to darkness
because you did not choose to free your brother and enter light with
him.

You can&rsquo;t do it by yourself.

You did not get a bill of divorcement from your Father by yourself. You
and someone else, you and a buddy, you and a girlfriend, so to speak,
got divorces together. You mutually agreed to work together in a new and
different way, different from what the Father had established. And in
order to return home, you must give something to a brother. You must
give the acknowledgement of the truth of him to him. And how do you do
that? Not because you have that capacity within yourself, you poor
little orphan boy or girl, but because you&rsquo;re willing to abandon
orphanhood and rejoin with your Father and ask, &ldquo;What is the truth
here?&rdquo; &ldquo;What is the gift of love that I can extend to my
brother or sister?&rdquo; &ldquo;How do you, Father, see my brother or
sister?&rdquo;

You must join. You must become involved and you must withdraw any
grievances you have, because grievances involve guilt and justice. And
if they involve guilt and justice, you are valuing guilt and staying
securely in second gear where learning cannot occur, where healing
cannot occur.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
By GIVING power to nothing, he &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the one who did not take the opportunity to heal &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; he threw away the joyous opportunity to learn that nothing HAS
no power.
</div>

Here again is that unusual use of the word, &ldquo;nothing.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; nothing HAS no power.
</div>

Nothingness. A little bit of nothing has no power. A whole lot of
nothing has no power. Nothing has no power.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
By GIVING power to nothing, he threw away the joyous opportunity to
learn that nothing HAS no power. And by NOT dispelling darkness he
became afraid of darkness AND of light.
</div>

&ldquo;Oh-h…I&rsquo;d rather do it my way. I want a bill of divorcement
from you, Father. I want to be an orphan!&rdquo; CLUNK! &ldquo;Oh!
I&rsquo;m an orphan. What happened? Oh, suddenly I&rsquo;m not
comfortable. Suddenly I don&rsquo;t feel secure. But I know I&rsquo;ve
got what it takes to reestablish my security and to reestablish my
well-being. In fact that&rsquo;s what I&rsquo;m here for.&rdquo;

But in the process, third gear came into play. Your Sanity that said,
&ldquo;Turn around,&rdquo; &ldquo;go back,&rdquo; &ldquo;you&rsquo;re
attempting to do something impossible,&rdquo; did in-deed create
uneasiness because it must be uncomfortable to try to do some-thing
impossible. The impossibility of doing the impossible must register with
you in some way. And that way is going to be a way that gets your
attention. It&rsquo;s going to be something you say, &ldquo;I
don&rsquo;t like that! That doesn&rsquo;t feel normal to me. That
doesn&rsquo;t feel right to me.&rdquo; Because after all, as the Son or
Daughter of God, you do know what feels right and you do know what
doesn&rsquo;t feel right.

And so, by not dispelling darkness when the opportunity to heal
presented itself&mdash;the opportunity to shift gears so that you might
look into your brother&rsquo;s eyes and remember God&mdash;you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; became afraid of darkness &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you felt uncomfortable. It is a state of being that you
don&rsquo;t like &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
 &hellip; AND of light.
</div>

As we&rsquo;ve talked about before, there is a fear to go Home because
from the ego&rsquo;s limited frame of reference and tiny mean-spirited
nature, it expects punishment. It expects your Father, Whom you have
denied and Whom you have attacked by virtue of your denial, is going to
want vengeance on you. And so you become afraid of turning around and
going Home, not realizing that your Father knows that it is impossible
for you to do what is impossible and therefore you haven&rsquo;t done
what you believe you have done. And therefore, there is nothing to
punish you for. There is only glad welcome awaiting you upon your
return.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The joy of learning that darkness has no power over the Son of God is
the happy lesson the Holy Spirit teaches, and would have YOU teach with
Him. It is HIS joy to teach it, as it will be YOURS.
</div>

But you know what? You won&rsquo;t even get to the point of having the
happy lesson and of being able to pass it on if you are still bound to
getting justice and if you still find it unreasonable to abandon your
reaching for the carrot.

You see, you are convinced. Your teachers have convinced you that you
are nothing becoming something, that you are an empty slate which can be
filled, that you are a process of becoming instead of a Movement of
Being&mdash;of Being that is, in Itself, whole&mdash;where Being is
always a Movement of wholeness forever being complete without ever
becoming something, without improving Itself. Like a kaleidoscope, you
might say, which constantly changes, but what it changes to is not an
improvement on &ldquo;what was&rdquo; and the reason for changing was
not to become better than before&mdash;was not to gain
anything&mdash;but, you might say, to be the marvel of beauty in living
expression. That&rsquo;s you [addressing everyone], that&rsquo;s you,
that&rsquo;s you, that&rsquo;s all of you.

If you&rsquo;ll let that lesson in, it is a lesson of happiness that you
will gladly pass on to your brother and sister and healing will be the
result.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The joy of learning that darkness has no power over the Son of God is
the happy lesson the Holy Spirit teaches and would have YOU teach with
Him. It is HIS joy to teach it, as it will be YOURS.
</div>

Now, this is so important:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The way to teach this simple lesson is merely this: Guiltlessness IS
invulnerability. Therefore, make your invulnerability manifest to
everyone, and teach him that, WHATEVER he may try to do to you, your
perfect freedom from the belief that you can be harmed shows him HE is
guiltless.
</div>

Well, there&rsquo;s where the rubber hits the road, as they say. How
many of your brothers or sisters are you absolutely unwilling to show
invulnerability to because it is your vulnerability and their violation
of it that is your justifi-cation for having a grievance based upon
which you are going to extract justice from your brother or sister? You
see? Love that guilt! It gives you purpose. God, don&rsquo;t make the
mistake of letting them know that they didn&rsquo;t hurt you at all,
because then it will be obvious that they owe you nothing!

Well, listen to it again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The joy of learning that darkness has no power over the Son of God is
the happy lesson the Holy Spirit teaches and would have YOU teach with
Him. It is HIS joy to teach it, as it will be YOURS.

The way to teach this simple lesson is merely this: Guiltlessness IS
invulnerability. Therefore, make your invulnerability manifest to
everyone, and teach him that, WHATEVER he may try to do to you, your
perfect freedom from the belief that you can be harmed shows him HE is
guiltless. He can do NOTHING that can hurt you, and by refusing to allow
him to THINK he can, you teach him that the Atonement, which you have
accepted for YOURSELF, is also HIS. There IS nothing to forgive. No-one
can hurt the Son of God. His guilt is wholly without cause, and being
without cause CANNOT exist.
</div>

Now, it&rsquo;s difficult to read that when you&rsquo;re holding a
grievance about some-one, or many &ldquo;someones,&rdquo; because
you&rsquo;re looking at the someone whom you are convinced has hurt you
and is in debt to you and must bring balance about by paying for
whatever it is he&rsquo;s guilty of. The focus is on him. But,
let&rsquo;s go back up here &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
By GIVING power to nothing, he &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the one presented with the opportunity to heal &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; threw away the joyous opportunity to learn that nothing HAS no
power. And by NOT dispelling darkness he became afraid of darkness AND
of light.
</div>

Now that&rsquo;s talking about, we&rsquo;ll say, you&mdash;the one who
is unwilling to show himself to be invulnerable to someone against whom
he has a grievance. By holding onto the grievance, you become afraid of
darkness and of light. You stay firmly attached to third gear because
you are so firmly holding onto your position in second gear. You are
binding yourself by virtue of your refusal to consider the possibility
that guilt in any form is an illusion. It is an imagi-nation that has no
reality to it, and therefore your devotion to it and your committed call
for justice, for getting even, is an insane act on your part that you
have the capacity to free yourself from. You&rsquo;re not just stuck
with it.

You have the choice to abandon second gear. You have the choice to
finally let go of the thrill of being an orphan trying to become a real
boy or a real girl, and remember your Father. It&rsquo;s really more
like stopping denying your Father and re-embracing Him, because in the
act of re-embracing your Father, you&rsquo;re embracing who you
Are&mdash;not as an orphan any longer, and therefore free of the call
for justice because guilt is gone. And you&rsquo;re able to see the
Kingdom of Heaven through the eyes of love instead of through the eyes
of guilt.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God is the ONLY Cause, and guilt is not of Him.
</div>

Actually, guilt is not of anyone or anything. Guilt is an imaginary
experience experienced by an imaginary self&mdash;a self imagined and
carried around in the mind of the Son of God who has chosen to deny his
heritage and caused himself to suffer from the imaginary experience of
being an orphan. That&rsquo;s all.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God is the ONLY Cause, and guilt is not of Him. Teach no-one he &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; not God, but: Teach no-one that he&mdash;the one you&rsquo;re
speaking to&mdash;has hurt you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Teach no-one he has hurt you, for if you do, you teach yourself that
what is not of God HAS power over you. THE CAUSELESS CANNOT BE.
</div>

You see, what is not of God doesn&rsquo;t exist. And what doesn&rsquo;t
exist cannot have power over you. Because that which does not exist,
does not exist.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
THE CAUSELESS CANNOT BE.
</div>

Remember, guilt, justice, becoming something, becoming
somebody&mdash;all of this is nonsense, including the self that thinks
it is becoming something. The self that&rsquo;s going after the carrot
doesn&rsquo;t exist!  Young girls go to movies and imagine themselves
in the arms of the leading male actor in the movie, and they almost
swoon with real physical sensations from the experience of pure
imagination. Continuing:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Do not attest to it&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that what is not of God has power over you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Do not attest to it, and do not foster belief in it in any mind.
Remember always that MIND is one and CAUSE is one. You will learn
communication with this oneness ONLY when you learn to DENY the
causeless, and accept the Cause of God as YOURS.
</div>

This is a very important promise! Listen &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You will learn communication with this oneness ONLY when you learn to
DENY the causeless, and accept the Cause of God as YOURS.
</div>

You&rsquo;ve got to learn to deny the causeless&mdash;the orphan
mindset. The orphan mindset, and you as the orphan are causeless. They
do not have a cause and they do not actually exist, although they can
be imagined. And one can fairly swoon from the experience of being a
causeless presence. But it&rsquo;s all foolishness! And I want to point
out that because it&rsquo;s foolishness&mdash;nonsense&mdash;there
cannot be punishment awaiting you when you abandon it. There will be
the dissonance of the Sanity of your Being telling you that
you&rsquo;re trying to do the impossible &hellip; and can&rsquo;t. But
that&rsquo;s not punishment. That&rsquo;s straight-forward, bottom-line
clarity that&rsquo;s being provided to you so that you might return
directly Home in the most simple way.  Now listen to this &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The power that God has given to His Son IS his&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; is the Son&rsquo;s &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and nothing else can His Son see or choose to look upon without
imposing on himself the penalty of guilt IN PLACE of all the happy
teaching the Holy Spirit would gladly offer him.
</div>

Again, here&rsquo;s the ultimate truth about you, right now.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The power that God has given to His Son &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; IS his&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; is yours &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and nothing else can His Son see or choose to look upon
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; see nothing else can his Son see or choose to look upon
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; without imposing on himself the penalty of guilt &hellip;
</div>

What does that mean?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; nothing else can His Son see or choose to look upon &hellip;
</div>

Well, that refers to your getting a bill of divorcement from your Father
and saying, &ldquo;But Father, I&rsquo;d rather see it my way. And I
would rather define what everything is. And I would rather define
everything as means by which, through their use, I can become credible
and important and wealthy and respected and valid.&rdquo; You see?

And so, his Son chooses something else but what the Father is Being, and
what the Son really is, to look upon, and imposes on himself the penalty
of guilt.

How is that? Because he said, &ldquo;I imagine that I have a place where
I can think for myself. I imagine that there is a place and a way for me 
to be.  A place for me to be and a way for me to be on my own.&rdquo; 
That&rsquo;s second gear. Of course, the moment second gear seemed to be 
viable, third gear was rightthere with it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; nothing else can His Son see or choose to look upon without
imposing on himself the penalty of guilt &hellip;
</div>

Boy, third gear is there right away the moment second gear is secured as
a place to be from. Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The power that God has given to His Son IS his, and nothing else can His
Son see or choose to look upon without imposing on himself the penalty
of guilt IN PLACE of all the happy teaching the Holy Spirit would gladly
offer him.
</div>

And again, for simple clarity, what is the Holy Spirit? Nothing more
than your right Mind. When you said, &ldquo;Father I would rather see
things my way,&rdquo; you abandoned the wholeness of your mind. You
began to use your mind in a way that was foreign to it, and ignored
everything that was familiar and true.

And so, all the rest of your mind that you&rsquo;re now ignoring by
virtue of using a small part of your mind to be very utterly original,
all by yourself, awaits you, awaits your return to its embrace. And it
is what the Holy Spirit is.

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The power that God has given to His Son IS his, and nothing else can His
Son see or choose to look upon without imposing on himself the penalty
of guilt IN PLACE of all the happy teaching the Holy Spirit &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that which is nothing more than his right Mind &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; would gladly offer him.

Whenever you decide to make decisions for yourself, you are thinking
destructively, and the decision WILL be wrong.
</div>

It&rsquo;s a very strong statement.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Whenever &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; nothing wishy-washy about that word.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Whenever you decide to make decisions for yourself&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in other words, in that independent place called second gear
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you are thinking destructively, and the decision WILL be wrong.
</div>

Why are you thinking destructively? Because you&rsquo;re thinking at
odds with the truth about yourself, you are thinking through the lens of
being an orphan, which you are not. You are thinking through the lens of
tininess, when you are Infinite. And absolutely everything you think
from second gear is destructive.

Destructive to what? Destructive to your peace. Destructive to your
experience of your Birthright. Destructive to your guiltlessness.
Destructive to your innocence. It destroys your capacity, temporarily,
to know the truth about yourself and experience it without hindrance.

Now I know you want to say, &ldquo;Well, this is all well and good, but
if the Course says to me that all of my thinking, when I&rsquo;m making
decisions for myself, by myself, is destructive, then how can I possibly
function in today&rsquo;s world?

It&rsquo;s a nice theoretical question, and I could probably give you
ten thousand years of theoretical answers. What I&rsquo;m going to
suggest is something more practical. I&rsquo;m going to suggest that you
pay attention to the times in which your best thinking has not turned
out well. And without intending to hang crepe in any way to sound bleak,
everyone is going to find making ones own decisions more and more
unsatisfying, because there is a movement of Awakening. And the
satisfaction that used to be gained from making good independent
decisions is going to diminish.

I&rsquo;m asking you to pay attention, so that you might let a little
bit of unsatisfactory results from making decisions by yourself. I&rsquo;m 
going to encourage you to let that be enough to begin to conscientiously 
abandon thinking right in the thick
of things when thinking seems to be called for&mdash;and your habit will
tell you exactly how to do it&mdash;and instead ask, &ldquo;Father what
needs to be known here? Father, I am willing to assume that I have no
idea whatsoever as to what the right answer is, what will fulfill
purpose, what will identify truth, what will constitute bringing light
into the picture, what will result in healing, and so, right in the
thick of it here, when an answer is truly needed&mdash;urgently
needed&mdash;I&rsquo;m going to listen, and I&rsquo;m not going to
interfere with the answer, by imagining one all by myself.&rdquo;

Begin to practice doing this on purpose, with diligence. Because this is
the only way you&rsquo;re going to break the habit of trying to function
successfully in third gear, unconscious of who you are, what
you&rsquo;re Birthright is, how everything works, and the glory of it.

I&rsquo;m going to read the sentence again, because it is important.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Whenever you decide to make decisions for yourself, you are thinking
destructively, and the decision WILL be wrong. It will hurt you because
of the concept of decision which led to it.
</div>

The concept of a decision, meaning, that the decider was not the Son of
God, that the decider was an orphan, that the decider was a little hunk
of flesh born from physical actions that exists as a fluke of nature.
That&rsquo;s the concept of decision.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Whenever you decide to make decisions for yourself, you are thinking
destructively, and the decision WILL be wrong. It will hurt you because
of the concept of decision which led to it.
</div>

You could say, the concept of the decider that led you to the decision.
It is not true &hellip; . 

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is not true that you can make decisions BY yourself or FOR yourself alone.
</div>

All alone in second gear, that little place of innocence between the
Voice for Truth and the voice for fear, in which you can sort of be
untouched with any call for decisive self-identification, I&rsquo;m
going to put it that way. You can be a sort of non-descript blah
presence who never has to state his position, who never stands with the
Voice for Truth and never stands, ultimately, for the voice for fear,
but stands in between in that little safety zone.

It&rsquo;s not really safe because it&rsquo;s inseparable from the Voice
for Truth and the voice for fear. But you hold out for that. &ldquo;Oh,
if I side with the Voice for Truth, if I claim the Voice for Truth for
myself, I&rsquo;m bound to make waves. I&rsquo;m bound to lose respect
of a lot of people&mdash;respect that I as an orphan have built up
carefully and even at times viciously, and that&rsquo;s why I am where I
am today.&rdquo; Of course, you don&rsquo;t mean that&rsquo;s why
you&rsquo;re in second gear today instead of at Home in first gear, but
you say, &ldquo;That&rsquo;s why I&rsquo;m here today, and if I side
with the Voice for Truth, that&rsquo;s going to cost me everything
I&rsquo;ve gained as this helpless little orphan who so skillfully has
managed to gain the respect of everyone, so that now I can feel that
I&rsquo;m real.&rdquo; You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is not true that you can make decisions BY yourself or FOR yourself
alone. No thought of God&rsquo;s Son CAN be separate or isolated in its
effects.
</div>

Remember, you cannot have a private thought.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Every decision is made for the WHOLE Sonship, directed in and out, and
influencing a constellation larger than anything you ever dreamed of.
Those who accept the Atonement &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in other words, those of your Brothers and Sisters who are
Awake &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; ARE invulnerable.
</div>

In other words, if you are making bad decisions, if you are deciding to
use and value guilt, and if you are deciding to try to make your brother
suffer to pay a penalty for violating you, it&rsquo;s not going to
bother those who are Awake. They&rsquo;re going to see you accomplishing
nothing, because you&rsquo;re doing it from a place of no power.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Those who accept the Atonement ARE invulnerable. But &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and this is what you must remember &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; those who believe they are guilty &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the others of your brothers and sisters who also think that
they&rsquo;re in second gear and think that&rsquo;s all there is
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; those who believe they are guilty WILL respond to guilt,
because they think it is salvation,
</div>

&hellip; just as you do &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and will not refuse to see it and side with it.
</div>

You see, what the Course is saying and what I&rsquo;m encouraging you to
do, is to look at guilt, we&rsquo;ll say, and refuse to see it and
refuse to side with it. You must arrive at a point of being willing to
say, &ldquo;I see that it&rsquo;s pure imagination, and nothing valuable
or valid can be arrived at through its use.&rdquo;

You must be willing to begin to see how you do validate guilt in what
you think are most positive ways, so that you, in the discovery that
guilt is illusory, will be willing to set aside your use of it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; those who believe they are guilty WILL respond to guilt&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and this is why, because there are no private thoughts, you
must begin to act responsibly and stop employing guilt, because those
who likewise believe they are guilty will respond to guilt &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; because they think it is salvation, and will not refuse to see
it and side with it. And they will fail to understand the simple fact
that what they do not want MUST hurt them.
</div>

No one wants to experience something that isn&rsquo;t real. No one wants
to experience something that doesn&rsquo;t exist. In practical everyday
terms, people who believe that something exists that doesn&rsquo;t exist
are in insane asylums. No one wants to believe that something exists
that doesn&rsquo;t exist.

Now, what do you not want? If you do not want to believe in something
that doesn&rsquo;t exist, then you don&rsquo;t want to believe in guilt.
Again, if you don&rsquo;t want to believe in something that
doesn&rsquo;t exist, you don&rsquo;t want to believe in guilt.

If you do want to believe in something that doesn&rsquo;t exist, you
will believe in guilt, and you will hurt from it. If you want to be in
second gear, third gear will be in your experience and it will hurt. It
will be uncomfortable. Not because it&rsquo;s really the presence of
evil or the presence of a real thing called guilt, or anything
associated with the mindset out of which guilt arose, but because your
Sanity came into play immediately upon your getting your so-called
divorce and taking up residence in second gear and said, &ldquo;You
cannot do this and be comfortable!&rdquo;

Do you hear that? Guilt and fear, which are two sides of a coin,
inseparable from each other, are really your misperception of your
inherent Sanity, your divine Sanity, saying, &ldquo;You cannot do the
impossible. Stop trying to be at odds with your Self. Stop trying to
initiate a state of conflict in the midst of that which is indivisibly
One&mdash;your Self, which is God making Himself known.&rdquo;

Again, just for clarity &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
But those who believe they are guilty WILL respond to guilt, because
they think it is salvation, and will not refuse to see it and side with
it. And they will fail to understand the simple fact that what they do
not want MUST hurt them.
</div>

And what they do not want is the thing they happen to be valuing the
most at the moment, guilt and its employment, even though it is a
valuing of something that doesn&rsquo;t exist.

Now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; they will fail to understand the simple fact that what they do
not want MUST hurt them.

All this arises because they do not believe that what they want is GOOD.
</div>

Let&rsquo;s be clear on this. What do you want? You want to experience
what is real as Real. Why else would you want to be a real boy or a real
girl? You want to experience what is real as Real. But the only thing is
that in order to experience what is real as Real you must let everything
fall back into perspective in the context of their existence. And the
context of their existence is that they are not separate entities
existing on their own, but inseparable aspects of the Infinite Mind of
God.

Those who are valuing guilt don&rsquo;t realize or don&rsquo;t believe
that what they want&mdash;which is what I&rsquo;ve described&mdash;is
good. Why? Because they look at it, you look at it, through the lens of
guilt and you see a penalty forthcoming if you re-embrace your Father
whom you have denied, whom you think you have insulted by claiming not
to be His Son or Daughter, His Offspring, His Creation. All of which is
pure nonsense.

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
All this arises because they &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; do not believe that what they &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; want is GOOD.
</div>

Through the lens of guilt you can believe that God is a wrathful God.
And that He, based upon your sins, will cast you in hell for eternity
for what you have done, how you have insulted Him by debasing yourself
through senseless imaginations. You see how crazy it can get?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
All this arises because they &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; do not believe that what they &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; want is GOOD.
</div>

Please, although what is being shared is stark, perhaps, so matter of
fact that it might seem unpleasant, or it might seem as you look at it
through your current lenses of guilt, that all of what&rsquo;s being
said has to mean that you&rsquo;ve really been doing something wrong,
and that therefore, there is an axe that is going to fall&mdash;an
unavoidable falling of an axe. In spite of that spontaneous
misperception or hm-m sort of negative feeling you&rsquo;re getting, I
want you to ignore the negative feeling and dare to explore what&rsquo;s
been said with curiosity, with happy curiosity. Because whatever affects
you negatively about what has been said, is just the truth joggling the
status quo of your very definite beliefs, all of which are associated
with being an orphan in second gear.

Why? Not so that you can feel bad, but so that you might have the
courage and even the good humor to look at shifting back to first gear.
Because that which is nothing more than your right Mind, the Holy
Spirit, is waiting, I would say, eagerly to share with you the happy
news of healing for your brother and therefore yourself. And your
Sanity, which has never been altered, sits actively in place, you might
say, being you in your Perfection. And whatever wonderful bit of intent
to explore the truth you bring to this process, will be met with joy,
not punishment. Not punishment.

Now remember this: Guilt is an imagination. All of the thinking around
justice and guilt and vulnerability are imaginary and do not require you
to deal with them or protect them or utilize them before you can dare to
think about shifting back to first gear. And you will not be being
irresponsible or neglecting anything actual if you just happen to
disregard the calls for justice that present themselves to you. Just
disregard them and go do something else. Be light about the way you let
go of what might seem to be the heaviness of guilt. Make new decisions
with lightness and anticipation of joy.

I look forward to being with you next week.

[^1]: T13.7 The Decision for Guiltlessness

