---
title: Apr 13, 2008
ref: "T13.8 The Way of Salvation"
alink: "/acim/text/13/chap1308/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

Well, we&rsquo;ve been reading the Course for quite some time, acquiring
as you might have thought an increasing understanding that would help
you function better in the world. And yet, we&rsquo;ve arrived at a
point here, where you&rsquo;re called upon to acknowledge what the first
lesson in the Workbook says, &ldquo;Nothing that I see means
anything,&rdquo; or &ldquo;Nothing that I see means what I thought it
meant.&rdquo; Nothing means what I think it means, and of course, I rely
one hundred percent on what I think things mean. It&rsquo;s also brought
us to the point of being able to acknowledge that, &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t
know what anything is for.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Here I thought that I had become quite civilized. Here I thought
that civilization had become quite civilized&mdash;quite wonderfully
dependable, healthy. And yet, I&rsquo;ve been learning that guilt is
what has been motivating it all. And what causes guilt to be motivating
it all, is the fact that I have been operating on a false premise when I
didn&rsquo;t really know that there was any other premise available.
It&rsquo;s throwing me out into the deep blue, nothing firm to stand on,
no solid ground in sight, and just the forever moving nebulousness of
being nowhere without being able to accomplish anything.&rdquo;

&ldquo;And I&rsquo;ve spent how many years now listening every weekend
to arrive at this point?&rdquo; Amen, you have! Why? Because it puts you
at the point of wonder. It puts you at the place where curiosity
naturally comes into play. Curiosity supported by what? A sense of need,
an experience of need. You need to understand or you need to know. And
what that means is, you need to know beyond what you currently think.
You need to know beyond your &ldquo;current knowledge.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Well, how do I do that?&rdquo; Ah, you have to engage in
wondering! You have to let yourself be in the place of not knowing with
genuine curiosity. &ldquo;If this doesn&rsquo;t mean such-and-such, I
wonder what it does mean? Beyond my confidences and my faith in what I
thought things meant, what is the real meaning? I&rsquo;m willing to let
go of my confidence in what it is, so that I might see what I&rsquo;m
not even imagining.&rdquo;

In some ways it&rsquo;s not the most pleasant place to be. On the other
hand, if you&rsquo;re a babe, it&rsquo;s the most wonderful place to be
because everything is interesting, your curiosity naturally comes into
play and it doesn&rsquo;t provide any preconceptions for reality to fit
into&mdash;for the understanding, the meaning of being to fit into.
It&rsquo;s a wonderful place to be.

But, of course, business and life and commerce and all that you&rsquo;re
confronted with everyday doesn&rsquo;t allow for wonder, doesn&rsquo;t
allow for fluidity, doesn&rsquo;t allow for answers to become different,
for meanings to change. And so, with your hard won educations you hold
fast to that which seems permanent to you, and you reinforce it. And you
approach your brothers and sisters with constant demands of them, that
they reinforce it as well. And you remain immobilized, stuck in a still
life&mdash;where life has been stilled.

This Course is breaking things loose in your mind.

Now, to arrive once again at this basic premise that, &ldquo;Nothing I
see means anything,&rdquo; is different now than it was in the
beginning. Because now you know something more about what you Are, and
you know something about how you fit in and what you fit in
with&mdash;that you are a Son or a Daughter, that you have a Father,
that Who and What your Father is determines who you Are, gives you
identity. And you are therefore, more than you imagined you were, when
you thought you were an autonomous independent individuality.

So, now you&rsquo;re not just an autonomous independent individuality
trying to let itself into a vacuum or trying somehow to evoke from some
part of yourself that you were unaware of a new experience of being. No.
When you acknowledge your Sonship or Daughtership, when you own the fact
that there is Family that you fit into, and there is Birthright
that&rsquo;s unclaimed by you, now you can, with more daring, choose to
say, &ldquo;Nothing I see means anything, and I&rsquo;m glad to know
that it doesn&rsquo;t mean what I thought it meant, and I want to know
what it really means. And I have now learned that in letting myself into
what is the unknown to me, is a matter of letting myself into an
experience that is awaiting me that I didn&rsquo;t know was there, and
therefore, I will let myself into it with less fear and more
willingness.&rdquo;

So, if you have felt frustrated in the last few weeks or the last few
months by what we&rsquo;ve been discussing because you find it&rsquo;s
putting yourself up against a not knowing place, which you don&rsquo;t
like to be in, and because it&rsquo;s putting you up against a threshold
beyond which you don&rsquo;t know what exists, and you thought that all
that we had been doing was giving you an intellectual understanding and
that was the goal, well don&rsquo;t be dismayed. The fact that we
weren&rsquo;t headed where you thought we were headed is part of the
good news, because now you can let go of those expectations as well and
be curious beyond them.

Let&rsquo;s go into the book. This subheading is entitled:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*The Way of Salvation*[^1]

When you accept a brother&rsquo;s guiltlessness, you will see the
Atonement in him. For by proclaiming it in him you make it YOURS, and
you WILL see what you sought. You will not see the symbol of your
brother&rsquo;s guiltlessness shining within him while you still believe
it is not there.
</div>

Well, this throws things into a realm that&rsquo;s difficult to
understand because after all you&rsquo;ve been wanting to improve
yourself, you&rsquo;ve been wanting to find out how the truth would
allow you to be more successful. And this isn&rsquo;t talking about you
at all, is it?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you accept a brother&rsquo;s guiltlessness, you will see the
Atonement in him.
</div>

You thought you wanted to see the Atonement in you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For by proclaiming it in him you make it YOURS, and you WILL see what
you sought.
</div>

&ldquo;Yeah, but again, why are you always bringing him first?&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You will not see the symbol of your brother&rsquo;s guiltlessness
shining within him while you still believe it is not there. HIS
guiltlessness is YOUR Atonement. Grant it to him, and you will see the
truth of what you have acknowledged.
</div>

It&rsquo;s very simple. As an orphan&mdash;as an isolated, independent
entity&mdash;gift simply isn&rsquo;t part of the equation of life,
therefore, brotherhood is a meaningless and hollow word. You might act
like brothers, you might appear to be cooperating [chuckling] but
you&rsquo;re not very likely to claim a brother as a brother&mdash;part
of Family.

Now, the way Home involves joining. The way Home involves breaking the
isolation. The way Home involves abandoning independence. That&rsquo;s
why it is talking about your brother. That&rsquo;s why it&rsquo;s
bringing your brother into clearer focus as an object of your affection.
Why? Because in brotherhood, affection comes into play and affection is
a gift given. And a gift of affection given is, what I&rsquo;m going to
call, a concrete establishment of joining, of connection.

What is the gift you have to give to your brother? The only thing
you&rsquo;ve taken away from him or from yourself&mdash;guiltlessness.
You&rsquo;ve got to give him the acknowledgement of his guiltlessness.
Your valuing of guilt to use as a means of even constructive
manipulation&mdash;manipulation of your brothers and sisters, as well as
manipulation of yourself by yourself&mdash;that absolutely blocks you
from being able to experience who your brother really Is and therefore
who you really Are.

Now, there is in every single one of you, not only a capacity to care
about your brother, but a deep and unalterable love, which although you
can obscure it from yourself you cannot destroy, you cannot cover over
completely. It is absolutely and unalterably natural for you to want the
best for your brother. Not only because your very existence is the
evidence of the expression of love that the Father has expressed, but
because the breakaway, the divorce you got from the Father involved the
withdrawal of love&mdash;that which bonds you with everything, that
which connects you with everything, that which disallows for
independence. You abandoned it. And so it&rsquo;s essential for that to
be reinstated. And that&rsquo;s where you are now&mdash;at the point of
reinstatement.

And so, how do you begin your trip Home&mdash;the &ldquo;Journey without
distance?&rdquo; By using your mind to perform its function of extending
love, which is the willingness to recognize the guiltlessness of your
brother, because that is the one and only gift that will count. That is
the one gift that will break the cycle of guilt and all that it entails.
And that&rsquo;s your task. We could say that is what you are here for.
But I don&rsquo;t mean that&rsquo;s what you&rsquo;re here on planet
Earth for. I mean that&rsquo;s what you are here at this point in your,
for lack of better words, mental development. You&rsquo;re at this point
because it&rsquo;s the next step.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
HIS &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your brothers &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; guiltlessness is YOUR Atonement. Grant it to him&hellip;
</div>

Let the desire that is innately anchored in you as your real
motivation&mdash;let it, that love&mdash;come forth as caring enough
about your brother to extend to him the one gift that will make the
difference &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and you will see the truth of what you have acknowledged. Yet
truth is offered FIRST to be received&hellip;
</div>

You see, you&rsquo;re on your spiritual quest because you want to
receive enlightenment, you want to receive the fuller experience of
truth and of Reality. The place where you are is the recognition that in
order to receive you must give. And the one thing that you must give is
the one thing that you have withheld, that&mdash;what?&mdash;keeps you
in bondage. You have to give the willingness to embrace a brother at the
expense of your autonomous independence. And you have the capacity to do
that.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; truth is offered FIRST to be received, even as God gave it
first to His Son.
</div>

What does that mean? That means that Creation Itself&mdash;the act, if
you will, of Creation&mdash;is a Gift that God gives in order to receive
it Himself. And He gives it to His Creation and recognizes Himself in
It.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The first in time means nothing, but the First in eternity is God the
Father, Who is both First and One.
</div>

One, meaning all there Is, all inclusive, all embracing, but infinite.
Only if there were two could there be the loss of infinity.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The first in time means nothing, but the First in eternity is God the
Father, Who is both First and One. Beyond the First there is no other,
for there is no order, no second or third&hellip;
</div>

Sounds like shades of first gear, second gear, third gear.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Beyond the First there is no other, for there is no order, no second or
third, and nothing BUT the First.
</div>

This is talking about God, but it&rsquo;s the truth about you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You who belong to the First Cause, created by Him like unto Himself and
part of Him, are more than merely guiltless.
</div>

You see, you&rsquo;re more than you can imagine, you&rsquo;re more than
an orphan who&rsquo;s going to find out that he has parents and then
can, um-m, receive his Birthright still as a little independent,
two-legged entity, running around on planet Earth, perhaps never dying
and getting to do all kinds of fabulous things. But you&rsquo;re more
than that.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You who belong to the First Cause, created by Him like unto Himself and
part of Him, are more than merely guiltless. The state of guiltlessness
is only the condition in which what is not there has been removed from
the disordered mind that thought it WAS.
</div>

Guiltlessness, the actuality of guiltlessness, we&rsquo;ll say, is a
tool that&rsquo;s being used to allow you to abandon the guilt that you
thought was actual, the guilt that you as an orphan, an independent
autonomous entity thought was actual. You have to be educated out of
your false beliefs. But once you get it, we&rsquo;ll say, and you
abandon the valuing and the employment of guilt, you won&rsquo;t be a
guiltless Child of God. The very concept of guiltlessness won&rsquo;t
occupy your mind at all, because you are more than just guiltless.

You are the pristine Presence of effulgent Light, which coalesces,
I&rsquo;m going to say, in colors and shapes without ever ceasing to be
Light. And the Light and the shapes that the Light coalesces into are
the experience of Meaning beyond anything that you&rsquo;re
comprehending at the moment.

So, even as we&rsquo;re talking here about abandoning guilt and
embracing the guiltlessness of your brother and of yourself, we&rsquo;re
still not talking about anything ultimate. You still need to listen
without preconceptions, because what is being uncovered to you goes way
beyond your preconceptions. And it&rsquo;s really important for you to
proceed with, what I&rsquo;m going to call, full open consciousness.
Racers like to drive with a full opened throttle. Those who are
Awakening need to develop an appreciation of being a full open
receptivity.

Once again, this is a very passive thing and your experience of
orphanhood has been one full of aggressive, proactive engagement with
life. You need to become full open consciousness, where you&rsquo;re not
applying any breaks to what would enter and fill you up. I can&rsquo;t
tell you that you need to think bigger than you&rsquo;re thinking. You
need to let bigger than you&rsquo;re letting. This is in a way what
makes this stage of Awakening difficult because the less control you
exercise and employ, the more movement and the more learning of truth
will occur.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The state of guiltlessness is only the condition in which what is not
there has been removed from the disordered mind that thought it WAS.
This state, and only this, must YOU attain with God beside you.
</div>

Seeming to be different from you and separate from you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This state, and only this, must YOU attain with God beside you. For
until you do, your will still think that you are separate from Him. You
can feel His Presence next to you, but CANNOT know that you are one with
Him. This need not be taught. Learning applies only to the condition in
which it happens OF ITSELF.
</div>

[Chuckling] Learning is an, &ldquo;A-ha experience.&rdquo; It&rsquo;s
impossible to create an, &ldquo;A-ha experience,&rdquo; because an
&ldquo;A-ha experience&rdquo; is one of experiencing the unexpected and
the unknown. And you can only create out of what you know.

So, you have to be willing to be full open consciousness.  And
what&rsquo;s the best way of causing that condition? Caring about your
brother enough to want to know about his innocence and to ask for the
experience and awareness of his innocence from the only one Who
Knows&mdash;the Father, or one who represents the Father, the Father or
the Holy Spirit, the Father or that which is nothing more than your
right Mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you have let &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; again, there&rsquo;s that word &ldquo;let.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you have let all that obscured the truth in your most holy mind be
undone for you and stand in grace before your Father, He will give
Himself to you as He has always done.

When you have let all that obscured the truth in your most
holy mind be undone for you &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; Don&rsquo;t be afraid. Don&rsquo;t be afraid to let things be
done for you. Because although your present vantage point, your present
glasses that you&rsquo;re looking through, cause that which is
indivisible and undivided to appear to be polarized and to seem to be
potentially beneficial as well as dangerous. That isn&rsquo;t
what&rsquo;s out there. That isn&rsquo;t what is confronting you. And
you must dare to behave in disagreement with the perceptions
you&rsquo;re having. Your perceptions see your brother as guilty. Your
perceptions say that guilt must be brought into play to bring him into
line. But there is a knowing in you that knows that in spite of how your
brother sees himself, he&rsquo;s divine. Because, at the bottom line,
somewhere in you, you know that you&rsquo;re divine. And that&rsquo;s
worth fighting for illuminating, and bringing to the surface so that it
can&rsquo;t be denied.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you have let all that obscured the truth in your most holy mind be
undone for you and stand in grace before your Father&hellip;
</div>

It doesn&rsquo;t say, &ldquo;Stand in humiliation before your
Father.&rdquo; But that is what your ego would suggest to you is the
real meaning of those words. But when you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; stand in grace before your Father, He will give Himself to you
as He has always done.
</div>

He will not lash out at you. He will not scold you. He will not punish
you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; He will give Himself to you as He has always done.
</div>

In spite of your beliefs, God has always been Being all there is to
you&mdash;all there is to you. The difference is that when you finally
stand in grace before your Father, you will experience the fact that
He&rsquo;s Being all there is to you. And you won&rsquo;t be insulted by
it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Giving Himself is all He knows&hellip;
</div>

You see, that&rsquo;s the Gift that is Creation, that constitutes
receipt.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Giving Himself is all He knows, and so it is all knowledge.
</div>

In that Gift, all of the Meaning of everything is given and everything
knows.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For what He knows &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; God &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For what He knows not cannot be, and therefore cannot be given.
</div>

Now, what does this have to do with you? Why, what you&rsquo;re hearing
is setting the tone for an understanding of, for lack of better words,
the Energy of God, which you&rsquo;re embraced by, which you&rsquo;re
created with.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Ask not to be forgiven, for this has already been accomplished.
</div>

And why has it already been accomplished? Because you were never capable
of doing the impossible, and therefore, you have not done anything that
needs to be forgiven.

There are things you are doing based on ignorance and false assumptions
that are not working and which do cause you to experience guilt. And you
will have to stop doing those things because they don&rsquo;t work,
because it&rsquo;s impossible to truly accomplish them. That&rsquo;s why
you must stop. And in that sense there is repentance, but not repentance
because you were guilty. Repentance because intelligence is present that
you are experiencing that causes you to recognize that what isn&rsquo;t
working, isn&rsquo;t working, and therefore there is no reason to
continue to do what doesn&rsquo;t work. And so you stop.

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Ask not to be forgiven, for this has already been accomplished. Ask,
rather, to learn how to FORGIVE, and restore what always was to your
unforgiving mind.
</div>

To forgive is something that can only occur in a relationship. You can
forgive your negative assessment of plants that you call weeds. You can
forgive the definitions of your brothers or sisters as guilty and
deserving of punishment. In other words, you can stop doing what
doesn&rsquo;t accomplish anything. And you can stop doing what blinds
you to what&rsquo;s truly there. You can stop doing what causes you to
experience ignorance.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Ask, rather, to learn how to FORGIVE&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; how to engage truly in relationships, in which you are owning
what you are doing in your participation in those relationships, and so
that you can bring caring into play. And knowing what you know now,
practice the conscious desire to see what is truly there&mdash;to look
into your brother&rsquo;s eyes and remember God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Ask, rather, to learn how to FORGIVE, and restore what always was to
your unforgiving mind.
</div>

In other words, stop being an unforgiving mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Atonement becomes real and visible to them that USE it.
</div>

That&rsquo;s why you make the gift instead of going after what you want,
instead of finding somebody to gift you, you make the gift which will
restore what always was, to your unforgiving mind. So that &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Atonement becomes real and visible &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; because that&rsquo;s what happens for &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; them that USE it. On earth this is your only function&hellip;
</div>

We&rsquo;re back to simplicity again, aren&rsquo;t we? An only function.

As long as you are trying to operate in second gear from the orphanage,
there&rsquo;s only one task you have at hand, and that is, as I said, to
break the isolation. You now know that the way to break the isolation is
to insist upon uncovering the guiltlessness of your brother and thereby
love him.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
On earth this is your only function, and you must learn that it is all
you WANT to learn.
</div>

Why do anything unnecessary? Why do anything extraneous to the one and
only answer?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You WILL feel guilty till you learn this.
</div>

Okay, that&rsquo;s easy to understand now. You know that the moment you
tried to create second gear and the moment you decided to occupy it,
third gear came along with it&mdash;guilt and fear came along with it.
As long as you&rsquo;re in second gear you will feel guilt and fear.
Okay, that&rsquo;s just a simple fact. Don&rsquo;t dramatize it.
Don&rsquo;t make a big thing out of it. Just recognize it, &ldquo;Yes,
that&rsquo;s true. And if I don&rsquo;t want third gear, all I need to
do is get out of second gear. How do I get out of second gear? By
performing the only function I have, which is to bond with and join with
my brother, to forgive my brother and all of Creation, any part of
Creation which I&rsquo;ve been holding to my own definition of.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You WILL feel guilty till you learn this. For, in the end, whatever form
it takes, your guilt arises from your failure to fulfill your function
in God&rsquo;s Mind with all of YOURS.
</div>

Here&rsquo;s where we come back to the fact that there&rsquo;s more to
you than guiltlessness, and there&rsquo;s more to you than being an
Awake Son of God walking down the street in your right Mind, along with
other Sons of God walking down the street in their right Mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; your guilt arises from your failure to fulfill your function
&hellip;
</div>

Where? Not on the street you&rsquo;re walking down, but &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; in God&rsquo;s Mind with all of YOURS.
</div>

With all of your what? With all of your mind. Awakening involves your
bringing all of your mind into God&rsquo;s Mind where all Being is
occurring and in which you know who you Are and in which the fullness of
what God is Being, which you haven&rsquo;t the faintest idea of yet, is
illuminated and manifest for you to see, no longer obscured from you.
This is why you need to not think bigger, but let more fully.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Can you escape this guilt &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the one that you will feel till you learn this.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Can you escape this guilt by failing to fulfill your function here?
</div>

Of course, not. No, you can go right ahead having a rip-roaring
suffering time and enjoying the thrill of barely escaping the
reaper&rsquo;s axe. But you don&rsquo;t have to.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Can you escape this guilt by failing to fulfill your function here?
</div>

No. Now this is important.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You need not understand creation &hellip;
</div>

You don&rsquo;t need to understand everything.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; to do what must be done &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; to fulfill your function.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; before that knowledge would be meaningful to you.
</div>

You need not understand Creation to do what must be done, before that
knowledge would be meaningful to you. You see? If you think that you are
going to end up being a better orphan, then the understanding of who and
what you really Are will be meaningless to you. And so, grasping that
from second gear is not required of you in order to shift to first gear.
That&rsquo;s all it means.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You need not understand creation to do what must be done before that
knowledge would be meaningful to you. God breaks no barriers; neither
did He MAKE them. When YOU release them they are gone. God will not
fail, nor ever has in anything.
</div>

Here&rsquo;s the big step.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Decide that God is right and YOU are wrong about yourself.

[Repeating] Decide that God is right and YOU are wrong about yourself.
</div>

Hard for the ego to take, but that&rsquo;s the &ldquo;open sesame&rdquo;
to revelation.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; God &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; created you out of Himself, but still within Him. He KNOWS what
you are. Remember that there is no second to Him. There cannot,
therefore, be anyone without His Holiness, nor anyone unworthy of His
perfect Love.
</div>

That&rsquo;s a clue. That&rsquo;s an insight into the nature of
everything and everyone that you&rsquo;re conscious of. That&rsquo;s why
I keep saying, bring curiosity to bear. Look at everything with the
curiosity to see the more of what God is Being there than what
you&rsquo;re seeing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There cannot, therefore, be anyone &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; or, I&rsquo;m going to say, anything &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; without His Holiness, nor anyone unworthy of His perfect Love.
Fail not in your function of loving in a loveless place made out of
darkness and deceit, for thus are darkness and deceit undone.
</div>

Well, what is this &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; loveless place made out of darkness and deceit&hellip;
</div>

It&rsquo;s the orphanage. It&rsquo;s life in the orphanage. It&rsquo;s
life in the orphan mindset. It&rsquo;s a loveless place because no one
belongs to anyone. Guilt is employed to maintain order. Darkness and
deceit are employed constantly.

But &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Fail not in your function of loving in &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; this place &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; in a loveless place made out of darkness and deceit, for thus
are darkness and deceit undone.
</div>

That&rsquo;s your function. And I&rsquo;m going to remind you, that this
function that you have is a function you love to employ. It&rsquo;s a
function you love to allow into expression. And your brother or sister,
you will find, will be sufficient reason for doing it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Fail not YOURSELF&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; after all, the gift you give is the one you receive.  So
don&rsquo;t fail yourself by withholding the gift from your brother or
sister.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Fail not YOURSELF, but instead, offer to God AND YOU His blameless Son.
</div>

Well, that can mean you. But you as His blameless Son, will not come
into focus until you have been willing to present to your Father, your
brother as your Father&rsquo;s blameless Son. You see. This is very
important

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Fail not YOURSELF, but instead, offer to God AND YOU His blameless Son.
For this small gift of appreciation for His Love&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; God&rsquo;s Love.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; God will Himself exchange your gift for His.
</div>

And you will stand in conscious receipt. Wow!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Before you make ANY decisions for yourself, remember that you have
decided AGAINST your function in Heaven, and consider carefully whether
you WANT to make decisions here. Your function here is only to decide
AGAINST deciding what you want, in recognition that you do not KNOW.
</div>

You see, here we are right back at the first lesson in the Workbook,
&ldquo;Nothing I see means anything&rdquo; and &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t know
what anything is for.&rdquo; But now, recognizing that you do not know
is not as frightening and can be embraced without reducing you to a
quivering mass of jelly, immobilizing you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your function here is only to decide AGAINST deciding what you want, in
recognition that you do not KNOW. How, then, can you decide what you
should do? Leave all decisions to the One Who speaks for God, and for
your function as He KNOWS it.
</div>

Who might that be? The Holy Spirit&mdash;your right Mind.

But until you&rsquo;ve come Home, your right Mind is going to be
experienced as something other than you that you will have to yield to,
and that you will have to listen to, else you will maintain your
arrogance of independent, imagined sovereignty. And it&rsquo;s
unavoidable.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Leave all decisions to the One Who speaks for God, and for your function
as He KNOWS it. So will He teach you to remove the awful burden you have
laid upon yourself by loving not the Son of God, and trying to teach him
guilt instead of love. Give up this frantic and insane attempt, which
cheats you of the joy of living with your God and Father, and awaking
gladly to His Love and Holiness which join together &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; as the truth in you&hellip;
</div>

This is what you have no conception of. And this is what is so far
greater than you just being guiltless. And it is what requires that you
be willing to be full open consciousness&mdash;unresistant conscious
awareness.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; making you One with Him.
</div>

That&rsquo;s Atonement.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you have learned how to decide WITH God&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; remember, I used the word cooperator and cooperation.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you have learned how to decide WITH God, all decisions become as
easy and as right as breathing. There is no effort&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you see, because the power of decision is not the exertion of
force. So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is no effort. And you will be led as gently as if you were being
carried along a quiet path in summer. Only &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what? Your own volition.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Only your own volition seems to make deciding hard.
</div>

Man! The practice of will causes the natural awareness of what is
appropriate, which is an effortless process, to be difficult.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit will not delay at all in answering your EVERY question
what to do.
</div>

And the only problem at the moment, the only thing that makes it
difficult for you to hear the Holy Spirit is, that you think that you
can decide for yourself and you can come up with the answers by
yourself, and it&rsquo;s imperative to come up with the answers by
yourself because that&rsquo;s how you gain credibility and reality. But,
you see, you don&rsquo;t know what you&rsquo;re for. And you don&rsquo;t
know what you mean. And so, you&rsquo;ve got to dare to be full open
consciousness, willing to let in what you aren&rsquo;t expecting.
That&rsquo;s the only way transformation will occur.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit will not delay at all in answering your EVERY question
what to do. He KNOWS.
</div>

Ultimately that means that you know. But you cannot have the experience
of your Knowing as long as there is a tinge of arrogant self-righteous
autonomy or a desire for it. And so, you will have to listen to that
which is your right Mind, which means you will have to listen to the
Holy Spirit. And you will have to take directions. You will have to
yield to what you&rsquo;re being told.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; even more insulting &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; He will TELL you and then do it FOR you.
</div>

And you will learn to be grateful. And in your attitude of gratitude for
your right Mind doing for you what only It can do, you will be restored
to the conscious experience of it being your right Mind doing it. And
the sense of a separate orphan will disappear.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You who are tired might consider whether this is not more restful than
sleep.
</div>

What? [Chuckling] Letting the Holy Spirit answer your every question?
And letting the Holy Spirit tell you and then do it for you? Yeah.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You who are tired might consider whether this is not more restful than
sleep. For you can bring your guilt into sleeping, but not into this.
</div>

Now, there are practical aspects to all of this that we will need to
talk about. And you may perhaps be disappointed, that I&rsquo;m not
giving you examples of how what we&rsquo;ve discussed can be grounding
for you and relevant for you in your daily experience. But because you
are approaching your spiritual growth from the standpoint of having it
improve your human experience, I must bring your attention beyond that,
to that which is beyond your preconceptions, to that which requires you
to abandon preconceptions and be so fully allowing, that your state of
mind could be called full open consciousness, because it&rsquo;s
essential for you to be paying attention, to be giving your attention to
something far beyond your imaginations. Because the truth about you is
that you are more than guiltless and you&rsquo;re more than a divine
man.

And if it seems as though I have not pulled you out of the deep and
brought you to dry land&mdash;a solid footing&mdash;it&rsquo;s important
for you to be where you can&rsquo;t rely upon your already existing best
judgments, so that you can with more commitment, say to the Father or
the Holy Spirit, &ldquo;Help&rdquo; and stand with curiosity, vital,
real curiosity at the threshold of revelation.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit will not delay at all in answering your EVERY question
what to do.
</div>

So be willing to be absolutely insecure, knowing absolutely nothing for
sure, and asking for help.

And I look forward to being with you next week.

[^1]: T13.8 The Way of Salvation

