---
title: Apr 20, 2008
ref: "T14 Introduction"
alink: "/acim/text/14/chap1400/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

We&rsquo;re starting a new Chapter. It&rsquo;s entitled:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*Bringing Illusions to Truth*.[^1]
</div>

See, it&rsquo;s not the way you would expect it to be. You would expect
to turn to God&mdash;lean into God&mdash;with prayer and with
willingness to accept His answers so that truth would infill you and
allow you thereby to improve the human condition. In other words, you
would bring truth to illusion.

It&rsquo;s natural that you would have that expectation, because you
think that you are in a position of some authority and that it&rsquo;s
incumbent upon you to exercise that authority to improve your living
conditions, to benefit your brother or perhaps [chuckling] take
advantage of your brother. But one way or another everything falls into
place around you&mdash;the authority in your life.

Now just because it&rsquo;s natural for you to think that way
doesn&rsquo;t mean it&rsquo;s right. It doesn&rsquo;t mean it&rsquo;s
true. Just because everyone does it that way and just because all of
your ancestors did it that way and even though all the books in the
world that exist express the same basic modus operandi it doesn&rsquo;t
mean that everybody got it right.

And we have been discussing the truth and getting it right. But it does
require everyone to be willing to change. In a way, it&rsquo;s like
every single one of you moving to a country where language is spoken
that you have never learned. And in order to exist there you must learn
the language and you must learn it now. You must apply yourself to
learning it at every moment during the day.

&ldquo;¿Como se dice house?&rdquo; You know. You have to constantly
inquire, &ldquo;How do you say this? How do you say that? How do you
speak in the past tense,&rdquo; and so on? You can&rsquo;t say,
&ldquo;Well, learning a new language doesn&rsquo;t really fit into my
activities. I think I&rsquo;ll put it off for a while. I can&rsquo;t
learn a new language on the [snapping fingers] spot, while I&rsquo;m
right in the middle of things.&rdquo; But you have to.

You could say, &ldquo;Well yeah, I hear you&mdash;Bringing Illusions to
Truth&mdash;I know I need to do that, but you know I can&rsquo;t do that
on the job, I can&rsquo;t do that when I&rsquo;m driving in the car, I
can&rsquo;t do that when I&rsquo;m having an argument with my wife or my
son or my daughter or whoever.&rdquo; But you know what? If you&rsquo;re
in another country where everyone speaks a language that you don&rsquo;t
speak, you have to learn on the spot. You have to be willing. And it can
be done. That&rsquo;s the point. It can be done! If you&rsquo;re a
little spoiled though you might say, &ldquo;Well, it&rsquo;s not really
convenient right now.&rdquo; It doesn&rsquo;t have to be convenient.
Make the effort.

Now, let&rsquo;s go into the book &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Unless you are guiltless you cannot know God, Whose Will is that you
know Him.
</div>

Now here&rsquo;s just pure logic &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Therefore, you MUST be guiltless.
</div>

If it&rsquo;s the Father&rsquo;s Will for you to know Him and the only
way you can know him is to be guiltless, then there&rsquo;s no way to
escape the Father&rsquo;s Will. And that means you have to be guiltless
whether you believe it or not. It also means that your brother has to be
guiltless whether he believes it or not and whether you believe it about
your brother or not.

So, we&rsquo;ve thrown around the word &ldquo;guiltless&rdquo; and
&ldquo;guiltlessness&rdquo; incessantly for a number of weeks
here&mdash;not thrown it around, but it&rsquo;s been used a lot. So if
you must be guiltless, and if you must be guiltless in order to know
God, then how do you know God? What does guiltless mean?

Well, you know in one of the parables I spoke of the &ldquo;Bridegroom
coming when ye think not&rdquo;&mdash;be prepared because the
&ldquo;Bridegroom cometh when ye think not.&rdquo; Innocence,
guiltlessness is the state of your Being when ye think not&mdash;when
you are not thinking.

I know some of you were wondering this past week what the experience of
&ldquo;full open consciousness&rdquo; might be. It&rsquo;s the
experience you find yourself having when you successfully become silent
within yourself. You find yourself to be fully conscious without
thinking.

Now, as I said before, God did not give you the capacity to think.
Thinking is a so-called capacity which you have imagined, which you have
created. And in the imaginary act of having thoughts, what happened? The
presence thoughts suggested there was a thinker. &ldquo;Aha!&rdquo; God
didn&rsquo;t create a thinker, and there really is no such thing as a
thinker. But in the process of using your mind to create an experience
that you called a thought and then creating more thoughts, you caused a
suggestion to come into play. The presence of the thoughts suggested
that there was a thinker. And I&rsquo;m going to be very specific here:
there is a difference between a thinker and a knower. There&rsquo;s a
difference between thinking and knowing.

Stay with me here. When you meditate&mdash;or through any means that
accomplishes the singular end of experiencing silence&mdash;you arrive
at a point where there is no thinking going on, but you are conscious.
In that experience you are experiencing being pure Awareness. The
experience of awareness does not really suggest that there&rsquo;s an
entity being aware. It doesn&rsquo;t elicit a secondary effect. And so
as pure awareness you find yourself experiencing everything.

As I said, if you mediate and you arrive at a point of perfect
peace&mdash;silence within you&mdash;you can still hear the breeze
through the trees, you can still hear the dogs barking, you can still
smell dinner cooking, you&rsquo;re fully conscious of everything. And I
promise you, that in that experience of pure awareness, all of what you
have defined as separate experiences are simply the experience of
knowing. Pure conscious awareness is the experience of knowing. This is
where your innocence is. This is where your guiltlessness lies. When you
allow yourself into this experience you have allowed a truer experience
of what Being Is. Period.

Now, it is possible through a slight use of will, when you are
meditating, to move into the silence and think that the silence is the
goal and that you have arrived at some stopping point, if I might put it
that way. And so you hold on to the silence. You don&rsquo;t want to
disturb the silence with willfulness, you say. And yet I need to tell
you, that the silence is not the end. It is not the purpose of becoming
still. The purpose of becoming still is to stop the thinking that
suggests that there&rsquo;s a thinker.

But there is something further that has to come into play. There has to
be a desire. It could be called willfulness, but you&rsquo;ll find that
the desire is there without the use of thought. The desire will not be
the result of thought and thought will not be used to explain the
desire, or to flesh it out with meaning. You will find that the desire
will be experienced as a natural gravitation toward love&mdash;the
experience of love, of being loved, and of being love. Again, of being
loved and being love. And there will be a natural gravitation toward
peace. It will feel like movement. You will be able to feel the shift.
And you will be able to feel the love and the peace. And there will be a
natural desire or again, a natural inclination to move toward joy.

As this happens, you begin to accept the fact that these experiences
which you did not create, but which you did allow, are really the
clearer definers of you than the you, you thought you were by virtue of
having thoughts and thinking. Because you will not be reinforcing a
so-called thinker, by insisting on thinking thoughts, your awareness
will become&mdash;I could call it, a transparency for truth, or a
transparency for reality&mdash;an unclouded, less and less opaque
presence, environment, atmosphere, through which the Father can register
with you as Being all there is of you.

Now, there is nothing your behavior in the world can do to demonstrate
your guiltlessness, your innocence. There are no thoughts you can have
that will be so pure that they will create a pure thinker, an ultimate
thinker&mdash;that in which the Father could be well pleased. Anything
that you might attempt to do by virtue of your thinking, is not what
will cause your Father to be well pleased with you. It&rsquo;s when you
are willing to be more radical, and in the middle of your daily life
learn a new language, find a new way to be even though it&rsquo;s
inconvenient to do it, and you insist upon, to the very best of your
ability in every situation, listening for what the truth is here, what
the truth is here.

&ldquo;¿Como se dice house? What is the truth here? What is the truth
here? Because I need to know now in order to function where I am. I need
to know now in order to function as the guiltless one that I am. I need
to know now so that I can relate to my brother, the guiltless one that
he has to be right now. And the only way I&rsquo;m going to be able to
do it is to insist upon listening right in the middle of the experience
that I&rsquo;ve been having all along, but thinking it was something
else, determining that it was a material universe and world in the
process of evolution.&rdquo; You literally have to be willing to take a
radical stand, meaning, determine that you are going to be in a new way
here and now.

What is the new way? The new way is to say, &ldquo;Father, help!&rdquo;
The new way is to make a practice of becoming still and inquiring,
desiring to know as an experience of pure awareness&mdash;not as a
result of conscious logical thinking.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Unless you are guiltless you cannot know God, Whose Will is that you
know Him. Therefore, you MUST be guiltless. Yet if you do not accept the
necessary conditions for knowing Him you have denied Him&hellip;
</div>

Well, that&rsquo;s what we&rsquo;re talking about. What are the
necessary conditions for knowing Him? Well, the necessary conditions for
knowing Him are to stop valuing thinking, because the process of
thinking proves to you that you exist as an independent thinker, who by
virtue of his clear, correct, right thinking can become respectable and
become real. The conditions for knowing God are that you must abandon
doing that.

Now, many of you have had the experience of having life&mdash;you
say&mdash;wear you down, for life to become so difficult that finally
you give up, you give up faith in yourself, you give up thinking that
you have a capacity to resolve the situation and you let go.

You know, you all, or most of you love this phrase, &ldquo;Let go and
let God.&rdquo; Well, okay, nice words. But almost without fail, those
of you who have experienced letting go and letting God called that a
major failure in your life, where you failed at being a success and
everything fell apart. And it was only, you say, through the grace of
God that you were lifted up out of it and there was such transformation
in your life that it changed you forever, and now you really believe
there is a God.

Now, when you let go under those circumstances, when you give up truly
in those circumstances, you literally abandon thinking and valuing your
thinking. And in the absence of any confidence in what your thinking
could create for you, you say, &ldquo;Help!&rdquo; When you do that you
accept the necessary conditions for knowing God.

Now, the point is you don&rsquo;t have to wait for life to wear you
down. You don&rsquo;t have to wait for circumstances to cause you to
abandon the use of your will. You can volunteer to abandon the use of
your will.

And I&rsquo;ve talked at length over many moons as we&rsquo;ve been
going through the book. I&rsquo;ve talked at length about how you can do
that, about having curiosity, bringing curiosity into play, asking,
&ldquo;What is the more of what God is being here than what I&rsquo;m
seeing?&rdquo; But you know what? I want to encourage you to bring a
little bit more commitment to it. You can play with it a little bit. You
can sort of have fun with being curious during the day to see more, but
let a little bit of real life occur and you will slip right back into
being in charge yourself, because you value the self you think you are
by virtue of engaging in thinking&mdash;using the presence of thoughts
as the verifier of the fact that there really is a thinker and that
thinker is you. Doing that you are not accepting the necessary
conditions for knowing Him.

So I guess you could say that, unlike years past, I&rsquo;m pressuring
you a little, I&rsquo;m pushing you a little. Why? Because the truth
about you is so much more wonderful and the experience of what you
really are is so much more profound than what you&rsquo;re experiencing.
And if you continue to play with ideas of truth and practicing having a
little bit of curiosity to see the more of God, but not really expecting
it. &ldquo;You know, it would be nice, but if it really happened, well
you don&rsquo;t want to be thrown off base, you don&rsquo;t want to be
thrown off guard, you don&rsquo;t want to be thrown for a curve. So
I&rsquo;m curious, but I&rsquo;m not too curious.&rdquo; And I&rsquo;m
saying, &ldquo;Okay, come on. Lets treat all of this as though
it&rsquo;s the truth.&rdquo;

Stop doing what constitutes not accepting the conditions for knowing
God. Stop thinking and trying to prove by virtue of your thinking that
you do indeed exist as the thinker on your own, in second gear.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Unless you are guiltless you cannot know God, Whose Will is that you
know Him. Therefore, you MUST be guiltless. Yet if you do not accept the
necessary conditions for knowing Him you have denied Him, and do not
recognize Him, though He is all around you. He cannot be known without
His Son, whose guiltlessness is the condition for knowing Him.

He cannot be known without His Son&hellip;
</div>

If you are claiming to be an independent entity, proof of which is
arrived at by demonstrating that you are having thoughts and therefore
you are a thinker in your own right, the Father cannot be known, because
there&rsquo;s no Son. There&rsquo;s no Son being acknowledged by you.
You&rsquo;re claiming to be not His Son. You&rsquo;re claiming to not be
a son of anything. You are the creator by virtue of thinking. And the
thinking demonstrates as a fact that there is a thinker and that&rsquo;s
you. And all of your thinking, whether you believe this or not, all of
your thinking occurs for the sole purpose of proving your existence as
an independent entity.

So, that is the reason that God is obscured.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Accepting His Son as guilty is denial of the Father so complete that
knowledge is swept away from recognition in the very mind where God
Himself has placed it.
</div>

Now, we&rsquo;ve talked at length about the fact that even though you
utilize guilt and you do value it because you do use it, you used it to
motivate yourself. You use it to motivate your brothers and sisters and
they likewise practice it on you for purposes of control. Even though
you do this, it&rsquo;s just like no matter how much you think it
doesn&rsquo;t prove or demonstrate that there is a thinker&mdash;an
independent entity. And likewise no matter how much you employ guilt, it
doesn&rsquo;t mean that you have become guilty. But it does mean that
you are deluded. It does mean that you are confused and as a result
cannot experience your Birthright, cannot experience what it means to be
truly Sane.

And although you get a lot of invigoration from this tense existence of
trying to make something Real that can&rsquo;t become Real, you
haven&rsquo;t succeeded at doing anything. And therefore you are not
guilty. And because you haven&rsquo;t accomplished changing what you
are, you still are what you were created to be. And therefore, you can
experience transformation. You can experience, without process at all,
slipping back into the experience of full open consciousness&mdash;the
experience of guiltlessness, the experience of being pure awareness.

Now, just getting into the silence is not all there is to it. In the
silence there needs to be a very gently expressed wish/desire to have
your Father reveal to you the Mind He placed in you&mdash;to have your
right Mind uncovered to you. That&rsquo;s the way you undo the
isolation&mdash;the so-called independence that you thought you could
create. And when you do that, you accept the necessary conditions for
knowing Him.

In the abandonment [careless freedom] of behaving as though you are
guilty, even though you can&rsquo;t possibly become guilty, you find
that the experience of Knowing that comes when you are experiencing pure
awareness is lost because you&rsquo;re so busy creating the static of
your thinking, which you believe is going to create the proof that there
is a thinker there&mdash;you&mdash;that is real.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you would but listen, and learn how impossible this is!
</div>

That&rsquo;s a plea.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you would but listen, and learn how impossible this is!
</div>

Do you realize that this is how Atonement happens?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Do not endow &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; God &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Do not endow Him with attributes You understand. You made Him not and
anything you understand is not of Him.
</div>

In other words, anything you thought up about what God is, isn&rsquo;t
the truth about God. It&rsquo;s just the truth about you engaging in
thinking for the selfish purpose of demonstrating that you exist all by
yourself.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your task is not to make reality.

Your task is not to make reality. It is here without your making, but
not without YOU. You who have thrown your selves away and valued God so
little, hear me speak for Him and for yourselves.
</div>

How did you throw yourselves away? And how did you value God so little?
By becoming consumed with proving your existence as an independent
thinker.

Now you know what? We could get into lengthy conversations about your
good thinking and how you&rsquo;ve used your thinking in beneficial
ways. And you could have another ten thousand lifetimes without waking
up. You don&rsquo;t need to prove or demonstrate good thoughts and good
thinking habits. You just simply don&rsquo;t any longer have to try to
demonstrate your validity and value, by virtue of any thoughts you ever
had, any more than your worthlessness could be demonstrated by the poor
thoughts you&rsquo;ve had and put into practice. You see?

The necessity is to do something really very simple, that every single
one of you can do. You can stop thinking. Just stop it. Get into the
silence. Learn how to value it so that it&rsquo;s easier to stay in it
even when you&rsquo;re in the middle of activity. So that your
experience of activities is a result of pure awareness of being present
with, without thinking about anything that&rsquo;s going on. Because
it&rsquo;s in this way that what God is Being, that what Reality
Is&mdash;in all of these activities that you&rsquo;re aware of&mdash;can
register with you without the distortions introduced by engaging in
thought processes and evaluations, and on and on and on.

Your innocence lies in your not employing that which, we&rsquo;ll say,
brings guilt into play. And what brings guilt into play is thinking.
What brings guilt into play is behaving as though you are an orphan and
valuing your orphanhood and using all of the sad details of orphanhood
to justify grabbing for your good&mdash;as though you didn&rsquo;t have
it&mdash;and proving that you&rsquo;re worth having it all by virtue of
excellent thoughts and the development of an excellent self image.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You who have thrown yourselves away and valued God so little, hear me
speak for Him and for yourselves. You cannot understand how much your
Father loves you, for there is no parallel in your experience of the
world &hellip;
</div>

I&rsquo;m going to say: as you&rsquo;ve determined it to be by virtue of
your thinking&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; to help you understand it. There is nothing on earth &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; as you have determined it to be by virtue of your thinking
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; with which it can compare, and nothing you have ever felt,
apart from Him&hellip;
</div>

You see, while you&rsquo;re enjoying being in second gear and while
you&rsquo;re enjoying proving your independent existence, by virtue of
thinking, so that you can prove that there&rsquo;s a thinker, all that
time you are holding yourself apart from Him&mdash;proving your own
independent existence.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is nothing on earth with which It &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Father&rsquo;s Love

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; can compare, and nothing you have ever felt, apart from Him,
that resembles It ever so faintly. You cannot even give a blessing in
perfect gentleness.
</div>

Perfect gentleness, in the quiet, peaceful love and joy, which becomes
yours as you value and move into the silence. There, you can give a
blessing in perfect gentleness. And just your very conscious awareness
of everything will be the blessing in perfect gentleness. It won&rsquo;t
be an independent action that you&rsquo;ve said, &ldquo;Okay, now
I&rsquo;m starting to send a blessing to you.&rdquo; And then,
&ldquo;Okay, the blessing is over.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Would you know of One Who gives forever, and Who knows of nothing EXCEPT
giving?
</div>

Would you want &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; to know of One Who gives forever, and Who knows of nothing
EXCEPT giving?
</div>

Want to. Wants to &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; know of One Who gives forever and Who knows of nothing EXCEPT
giving.
</div>

That&rsquo;s the Father. And that&rsquo;s you when you&rsquo;re in the
silence, in the love and the peace and the joy of being pure awareness.
As pure awareness, you are present with and in full acknowledgement of
what everything Is, without the coloration of your distorted thoughts
and perceptions. And so you co-create. You join with the Father in
Creation, which is the giving of your full open consciousness, your
attention, and knowing that that is your function in its entirety. Your
mind is not there so that you can think. Your mind is there so that you
can Know. So you can know what? What you&rsquo;ve figured out? No. So
that you can Know everything as the Father is Knowing It, and in the act
of Knowing It, Creating It.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Children of Heaven &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; You, everyone &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; live in the light of the blessing of their Father, because they
KNOW that they are sinless.
</div>

Sin: the missing of the mark, the attempt to be what you cannot be, the
attempt to create and demonstrate your existence by virtue of
independent thinking. Right now it feels normal to you. But as you begin
to abandon it and have frequent experiences of not engaging it, you will
begin to find it less and less comfortable to engage it, and what had
been a carrot you chased after, will no longer have appeal to you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Atonement was established as the means of restoring guiltlessness to
the mind which has denied it&hellip;
</div>

Has denied it how? By insisting on creating a sense of identity by
virtue of more and more excellent thinking processes.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Atonement was established as the means of restoring guiltlessness to
the mind which has denied it, and thus denied Heaven to Itself.
Atonement teaches you the true condition of the Son of God.
</div>

That&rsquo;s interesting isn&rsquo;t it?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the true condition &hellip;
</div>

Not the true skills, not the true nature, not the true gifts that he
has, but the true condition of the Son of God&mdash;peace, love, joy and
more that emerges when silence is allowed, when silence is nurtured,
when listening in the silence is valued more than thinking.

Again, you can make this shift right in the world today, just as you can
learn a new language in a &ldquo;foreign country,&rdquo; where no one
speaks your language.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Atonement teaches you the true condition of the Son of God.
</div>

That&rsquo;s what I said. As you allow yourself to be in the peace and
you experience the love and the joy that emerges, those experiences
become that which define you&mdash;not the thoughts or the skills or
anything else that you might engage in.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Atonement &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; does not teach you what you are, or what your Father is.
</div>

The &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Atonement teaches you the true condition of the Son of God&hellip;

&hellip; The Holy Spirit, Who remembers this for you&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; Who remembers who you Are and what the Father Is.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit, Who remembers this for you, merely teaches you how to
remove the blocks that stand between you and what you know.
</div>

Well, I&rsquo;ll tell you, there aren&rsquo;t a whole lot of blocks,
unless you want to count all the different kinds of thoughts that you
engage in. There&rsquo;s really only one block that stands between you
and what you know of the truth of you. And that is, again, the static
that is created by your insistence upon thinking, for the purpose of
proving that there is a thinker, and you are it, and you are therefore
real all by yourself. That&rsquo;s the only block there is.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
His memory &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s memory, the memory of that which is
nothing more than your right Mind &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is YOURS. If you remember what YOU have made&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; with all of your thinking. If you remember the self you have
been working so hard to create by virtue of your thinking &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you are remembering nothing. Remembrance of reality is in
Him&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and THEREFORE in you.
</div>

Now, there&rsquo;s your radical thinking. No, there&rsquo;s your radical
truth.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Remembrance of reality is in Him&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and THEREFORE in you.
</div>

In order to demonstrate your guiltlessness and in order to illuminate
and demonstrate your brother&rsquo;s guiltlessness, you must be willing
to abandon who you think you are. You must be willing to abandon the
definitions you have created of yourself and then impressed everyone
else with. And you must abandon the pride with which you hold yourself
in such self-esteem. You must be willing to see yourself as something
far more than anything that you could have created by a stream of
thoughts. And so must your brother.

And if you want to wake up, if you want to know the truth, if you want
to become free of the illusions you&rsquo;re suffering from, you must be
willing to consider yourself in a different language&mdash;not the
language of thoughts you have about yourself, and not the language of
the thoughts you have about your brother or your sister, and not the
language of the thoughts that your professors and teachers and so-called
enlightened ones have added to your repertoire of thoughts.

It&rsquo;s not awful of me to illuminate the nothingness of nothing.
It&rsquo;s not unkind of me to illuminate the lack of value in that
which has no value, especially when I am providing, at the same time, an
understanding of how to get to the experience of what is valuable, the
experience of your Sanity and the fact that it is all waiting for
you&mdash;in a bright package, you might say of wholeness&mdash;simply
awaiting a few moments of silence when you&rsquo;ve relinquished the
attempt to reinforce your self-image and prove your existence by virtue
of all the thoughts you could possibly think.

You are guiltless because you couldn&rsquo;t possibly be a thinker. And
you are guiltless because right now, even though you&rsquo;re not
conscious of it, you are the divine presence of pure conscious
awareness, which by virtue of being awareness knows everything
infinitely, sharing the knowledge of Reality with your Father.

Now, you can make this claim for yourself. You can describe yourself to
yourself in the words I just used about you. But don&rsquo;t get hung up
on declaring it because then it just becomes another thought to
rehearse, thus proving the presence of a thinker, thinking better. But
what I just said, is of value because it can contribute to your letting
go&mdash;letting go of the attempt to demonstrate your validity by
thoughts. And by letting those words cause you to have greater peace and
less fear as you let yourself into the silence, and learn of your being
from the experience of the silence, the silence and the emptiness that
seemed to be are already full of Reality, awaiting you to experience It
in Its language.

So we&rsquo;re not bringing truth to illusions. We&rsquo;re not bringing
the truth to your mind to add to your repertoire of thoughts that will
do nothing but continue to demonstrate your independent existence. Were
bringing illusions to truth by abandoning illusions. We&rsquo;re
bringing you to truth. We&rsquo;re bringing you&mdash;returning
you&mdash;to that which is nothing more than your right Mind, which is
the Holy Spirit, the Voice for Truth, the Voice for God.

It&rsquo;s not too hard. You just have to begin to engage in it. Start
learning the new language. And start learning it no matter how
inconvenient it is, right in the middle of your (to your sense) very
human unspiritual day, right in the orphanage, if you will, so that you
might have the experience of the transformation of the orphanage into
the Kingdom of Heaven&mdash;which you had been missing because of the
definition you had applied to it.

You are assured of success because that which is divinely sane never
successfully became insane. Reach for your Sanity by shutting up,
becoming curious and listening. And do it, do it, do it, throughout your
days.

I love you all. And I look forward to being with you next week.

[^1]: T14 Introduction

