---
title: May 4, 2008
ref: "T14.1 Guilt and Guiltlessness"
alink: "/acim/text/14/chap1401/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

The simplicity of the answer to all problems associated with what you
call the human condition, is a real blessing. The simplicity of it is a
real blessing. That which creates the experience of problems, the
experience of dissonance, the experience of tension, the experience of
fear, and the experience of guilt is thinking&mdash;plain, pure and
simple.

Since we first started reading the Course, you&rsquo;ve heard about the
Voice for truth and the voice for fear. One you want to embrace and one
you want to disengage from.

Now, you&rsquo;re finding out that the way to disengage from the voice
for fear is to abandon the independent position of second gear, which is
always accompanied by third gear&mdash;the voice for fear and guilt. The
two are inseparable, second gear and third gear.

It&rsquo;s such a simple idea, that you might be inclined to dismiss it
as unworthy of your attention. You also might be inclined to dismiss it
as unworthy of your attention because it&rsquo;s going to cost you too
much to employ it, value it, and practice it. Because at the bottom
line, you know that your credibility and your validity depends entirely
upon the excellence of your thinking.

It&rsquo;s not true!

Now, I&rsquo;m going to give you a practice for the next two weeks. This
practice, I want you to engage in every day as many times as you
remember to engage in it.

It is this: No matter where you are and no matter what is going on, I
want you to, I&rsquo;m going to say, stand back and observe what&rsquo;s
going on in your mind. You are likely to find out that no matter where
you are, whether it&rsquo;s on the freeway, whether you&rsquo;re in the
office, whether you&rsquo;re with the children, no matter where you are
and no matter what is going on, there&rsquo;s a running dialogue in your
mind assessing whatever it is that&rsquo;s going on, or whoever it is
that&rsquo;s talking, or let&rsquo;s say, behaving whether it&rsquo;s a
child behaving like a child, or an adult behaving like an adult, notice
the dialogue that is going on in your mind.

The dialogue is entirely one of thoughts, isn&rsquo;t it. And I will
promise you something: To the degree that you have a stream of thoughts
occurring in your mind, you are not fully present with what you are
observing and experiencing. Because you&rsquo;re not fully present, you
are unable to be in touch with what is happening. You&rsquo;re unable to
be in touch with what the child is really meaning by his or her
expression. Or the employer or the employees you work with or whoever it
might be that you&rsquo;re involved with.

And you want to know something? Notice when you&rsquo;re on the freeway,
or notice when you&rsquo;re under stressful circumstances, that your
thinking becomes more vigorous. Not only that, it tends to become more
mean. It is much easier to express unkindness under those circumstances.

And what this demonstrates is, that the actual reason you are engaging
in thinking is to substantiate yourself in your own mind to make
yourself bigger, louder, more intense in order to match or be equal to
the circumstance going on. You don&rsquo;t do it to help correct the
circumstance. You do it to substantiate you.

Now, that&rsquo;s the definition of second gear isn&rsquo;t it. You,
being yourself in your own right by what? By virtue of engaging in
imaginative thoughts that seem to prove that there is a thinker
present&mdash;you!

When things get stressful and your thoughts become more intense and even
unkind, the true nature and purpose of thinking shows itself up.

Now, as you go through the next two weeks, notice, stop&mdash;step back
and notice what is going on in your mind. And when you find that
thinking is going on in your mind, further pay attention and notice that
for the most part, you&rsquo;re using it as insulation against
connection with whatever is going on. You may be arguing with what your
wife is saying, or you may be disagreeing with what your husband is
saying, or you may be going through a whole string of negative
evaluations about the person at the next desk, and how incredibly stupid
they are based upon your assessment of their behavior.

Now tell me something: How &hellip; how could healing possibly take
place when you have insulated yourself against
connection&mdash;involvement&mdash;of being present with your neighbor,
your brother, your sister and in fact, you are establishing most firmly
in your mind an assessment of them as a body&mdash;bottom line&mdash;a
body, a physical organism&mdash;a collection of behavioral responses
which they, as an organism, have naturally developed for self
protection? As I&rsquo;ve said before, you can look at your neighbor and
say why if you knew their background. You would understand why they
behave the way they behave or you would understand why they see
everything negatively. How could healing possibly occur with that kind
of assessment?

It can&rsquo;t. It can&rsquo;t occur for your brother and it can&rsquo;t
occur for yourself. Why? Because you are sitting squarely in second gear
being an independent authorizer of definitions of your brother and
sister. There&rsquo;s no Voice for Truth present in this scenario at
all. And yet you claim by virtue of the fact that you&rsquo;re listening
right now, or that you&rsquo;re a student of the Course, that you want
healing, you want something different from the human condition.

As I said last time we were together, you have thought that you could
study the Course or any spiritual work and bring the truths in that work
to your human condition to exercise in a beneficial way for you and for
your brothers and sisters. But you have thought that you were going to
bring it from first gear, the Voice for Truth, to second gear, which
automatically and unavoidably is partnered with by the voice for fear
and guilt.

Now, this practice, which I would like you to take seriously as though
it were a truly valuable exercise&mdash;this practice of multiple times
during the day, no matter what the setting&mdash;stepping back and
observing what&rsquo;s going on in your mind and noticing the thinking
&hellip; notice the stream of thoughts &hellip; notice their
characteristics &hellip; notice what they&rsquo;re tending to confirm to
you as an appropriate response or reaction. Is it kind? Is it mean? Is
it thoughtful? Is it thoughtless? Is there a little bit of a dig to it
&hellip; a little bit of sarcasm that elicits and supports your
expressing? Notice these things.

Because you need to become aware of when you are doing what defeats your
supposed goal of waking up&mdash;of learning what&rsquo;s in the
Course&mdash;of embodying what the Course is teaching. You need to
become aware of when you are defeating yourself and to notice how it is
that you are doing it. What is the characteristic of it? What is the
feel of the thinking that is going on?

Now, the big question is: To what are you going to turn in order to
learn? The voice for fear/guilt or the Voice for Truth? And are you
going to take me seriously when I say that thinking is what defeats your
purpose? Thinking is what defeats your purpose for being. Thinking is
what defeats what the Father has set in place for you and as you.
Thinking defeats your enjoyment of your Birthright.

Now, after you have taken some time doing this multiple times during the
day for the next two weeks religiously, I want you to end that session
with Lesson 35 in the Workbook which says &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&ldquo;My mind is part of God&rsquo;s. I am very holy.&rdquo;[^1]
</div>

When you&rsquo;ve listened, when you&rsquo;ve paid attention to
what&rsquo;s going on in your mind and you&rsquo;ve looked at it
honestly without lying to yourself and glossing it over and giving it
some other purpose than it&rsquo;s actually having, say &hellip;

&ldquo;But &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
My mind is part of God&rsquo;s. I am very holy.&rdquo;
</div>

Why do this? Do it because, until that happens&mdash;until you say
that&mdash;you are in second gear. In second gear, you have constant
reinforcement for being in second gear and for experiencing fear and for
experiencing guilt. And you blind yourself completely to any possibility
for waking up&mdash;for experiencing healing, for having correction of
your misunderstandings &hellip; for experiencing a miracle.

But when you say, &ldquo;Wait a minute, my mind is not my mind. My mind
is not something in my skull&mdash;in my brain&mdash;made up with a
bunch of electrical synapses. My mind is not a right hemisphere and a
left hemisphere doing what they do&mdash;physical things that I can
learn perhaps to finesse into better functioning, where more of my
capabilities can come into play more successfully.&rdquo; Uh-uh.

The need is to not identify with the self that seems to have been
created imaginatively, which has nothing to do with God. The key lies in
abandoning that and remembering first gear&mdash;remembering to identify
with God. And that&rsquo;s what that Lesson is for. &ldquo;My mind is
part of God.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&ldquo;My mind is part of God&rsquo;s. I am very holy.&rdquo;
</div>

Now you&rsquo;ve brought God back into the picture. Now you&rsquo;ve
brought first gear back into the picture and when you say in response to
the flow of thoughts you&rsquo;ve been having, when you say, &ldquo;But
&hellip; like in spite of everything I&rsquo;ve observed that&rsquo;s
been going on in my mind.

&ldquo;But &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
My mind is part of God&rsquo;s. I am very holy.&rdquo;
</div>

I&rsquo;m not this puny little orphan in second gear coping with third
gear.&rdquo; You see? Then, after you&rsquo;ve said that as part of this
practice, I want you to be willing to be more consciously present with
whatever it is that is going on. Stop thinking about your wife or your
child, or the neighborhood kid or your boss, or a fellow employee or the
cashier in the pet-shop. Be willing to be present thoughtlessly without
an analysis going on in your mind at all. Give your attention to that
one. Be really focused. Stop being sidetracked by a flow&mdash;a stream
of thoughts. And really be up-close and personal with them.

And you might say: &ldquo;Her mind is part of God&rsquo;s. She is very
holy.&rdquo; &ldquo;His mind is part of God&rsquo;s. He is very
holy.&rdquo;

Now, when you say that, don&rsquo;t get all &ldquo;pink-cloud&rdquo;
metaphysical about it. In acknowledging that his mind is part of God&rsquo;s
and he is very holy, let that be justification for continuing to be
up-close and personal, really not distracted from anything that is going
on with them.

And I promise you something: If you do that, even if they are expressing
ideas that reflect their guilt&mdash;that reflect their feeling of being
guilty, you will not respond to what they&rsquo;re saying from the level
that they&rsquo;re coming because you will have abandoned second gear
even though they&rsquo;re still in it. And you will be able to be an
agent for change.

But let&rsquo;s also stay clear about that. Because that&rsquo;s very
ego-satisfying&mdash;&ldquo;I can be an agent for change.&rdquo;
It&rsquo;s more than that. There&rsquo;s something under that that is
more important. And that is, that when you&rsquo;re doing that, you are
fulfilling your function and you are not engaging in a purposeful act of
insanity. And you are providing yourself with the opportunity to
experience a miracle&mdash;a sudden shift of perception.

Why? Because in effect you have said, &ldquo;I do not want to rely upon
my thinking. I do not want to rely upon my best judgments. And I&rsquo;m
going to dare in this moment, to stop thinking even though my
conditioning says that if I do that I will disappear because it&lsquo;s
only by virtue of my thinking that I can really prove that I exist. In
spite of the threat of that happening, I&rsquo;m going to do that
anyway. I&rsquo;m going to stop thinking.&rdquo;

And no matter what it is you&rsquo;re thinking, you&rsquo;re going to
say,

&ldquo;But &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
My mind is part of God&rsquo;s. I am very holy.&rdquo;
</div>

Your identification becomes one of joining with God and your holiness
can be embraced by you in that context because it is your Birthright. And in
doing that, the Atonement occurs.

So if you want Atonement&mdash;this wonderful thing that you keep
reading about in the Course, and you keep talking about in your Course
groups, this wonderful thing of Atonement will happen when? &ldquo;When
ye think not.&rdquo;

It&rsquo;s that simple. But when you&rsquo;re not thinking, you&rsquo;ve
got to be doing something else: You&rsquo;ve got to be quiet so that the
Meaning of what is going on can register with you. Now this is how
simple it is.

What you will find is not so simple, is finding the willingness in you
to do it. Because the hit&mdash;the payoff of being an independent
authorizer in your own right seems to promise so much. And it is like a
drug that you become habituated to and you&rsquo;ve got to break the
habit. And I&rsquo;ve told you how to break the habit and this practice
during the next two weeks will help you break the habit.

And I&rsquo;m going to be very clear here. You break the habit of
operating from second gear by returning to first gear. &ldquo;But, in
spite of these thoughts, my mind is part of God&rsquo;s. I am very holy.
But, no matter what my brother says, his mind is part of God&rsquo;s. He
is very holy.&rdquo; Anything else is so much tinkling brass.
That&rsquo;s a wonderfully poetic way of referring to static. [chuckles]
It&rsquo;s nothing but static&mdash;unpleasant, obscuring, having no
pleasantness to it whatsoever. So there you go.

If you will do this during the next two weeks, you will learn a lot. And
it will become easier and easier for you to insist upon making the shift
many times a day, so that you are being thoughtlessly present
with&mdash;I&rsquo;m going to say, thoughtlessly, but mindfully present
with your brother, present with your circumstance, with the desire to
see what you can&rsquo;t help seeing in the absence of your thinking,
what you can&rsquo;t help seeing in the absence of the feelings of guilt
and fear, in the absence of having this automatic assessment of your
brothers and sisters that they are guilty and that they ought to be
afraid, that they don&rsquo;t have any reason to be happy.

It&rsquo;s time to release yourself. Any time is the time to release
yourself. But we&rsquo;re talking about it now and we&rsquo;re talking
very specifically about how to do it. And, what I need to be very frank
about is, that you will not do this as a practice for the next two weeks
so that you might learn some things, and then discontinue the practice.

You may find it very difficult to maintain the kind of attentiveness
that it involves in being present with another or with the situation
you&rsquo;re in without thinking and insisting upon letting real
Meanings emerge about the events that are transpiring, so that you might
respond to what is really going on instead of what your friend fears is
going on because he&rsquo;s looking at it from second gear.

Let&rsquo;s go into the book.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*Guilt and Guiltlessness*[^2]
</div>

First of all, let&rsquo;s be very clear. Guilt is not real.
Guiltlessness is real. So we&rsquo;re not comparing apples and oranges.
We&rsquo;re comparing apples and nothing. The only thing is, that the
nothingness created through the use of imagination, that&rsquo;s called
guilt, really is uncomfortable. The thing is, it&rsquo;s not
uncomfortable because it&rsquo;s real, it&rsquo;s uncomfortable because
you are, in your mind, in a state of self-denial. You are in a position
of saying, &ldquo;I am not the Son of God. I am an entity in my own
right. I do not have a Source, I am creating my reality.&rdquo;

Now this is not the truth. And every bit of effort you bring into play
to make it true is going to be uncomfortable because you&rsquo;re
natural divine sanity will let you know.

So again, guiltlessness is real and guilt is not.

Now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The guiltless and the guilty are totally incapable of understanding one
another.
</div>

Now, I think you might be able to understand this through this example:
If you know someone, if you have an acquaintance and something occurred
between you that caused both of you distress, and somewhere along the
line you forgave your brother but your brother didn&rsquo;t forgive you,
then, when you interact with each other you will find miscommunication
happening, because you will not be seeing him as guilty of anything, you
will not see him as someone to be defended against, but he will see you
as someone who is guilty and he will see you as someone to defend
himself against. So, when you say, &ldquo;Hey Joe, how are things
going?&rdquo; He&rsquo;s going to wonder, &ldquo;What&rsquo;s that
bastard up to now?&rdquo; And his response to you will perhaps be unkind
or at the least curt, unfriendly.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The guiltless and the guilty are totally incapable of understanding one
another. Each perceives the other as like himself&hellip;
</div>

The one who hasn&rsquo;t forgiven you sees himself as unforgiven. He
sees you as guilty because he sees himself as guilty. Guilt is the name
of the game! And the purpose of existence is to arrive at a point
through the use of excellent thinking where you can prove that you are
honorable, and that the assessment of guilt against you is false and
that therefore everyone must respect you and free themselves of their
inclination to find you as guilty. So naturally, because he&rsquo;s in
second gear and that&rsquo;s his modus operandi he&rsquo;s going to see
you the same way. And he&rsquo;s going to assume that your goals are
just like his&mdash;to overcome your guilt, but to use guilt in the
process as the means for overcoming guilt.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Each perceives the other as like himself&hellip;
</div>

Now the guiltless, which would be those being out from first gear who
are not thinking but who are letting the Voice for Truth determine what
is real and what everything is, he will see the one who thinks
he&rsquo;s guilty as guiltless. He will see him as unworthy of reaction
and deserving only of love because he knows that the sense of guilt that
this brother is laboring under isn&rsquo;t true even though he believes
it is.

Now, the one who is guiltless, who sees his brother as guiltless, in
some ways has a tough row to hoe&mdash;just like me, because you all
listen to me from second gear. And so, you give me attributes that you
apply to yourself. And I must constantly address you in a way that
throws you off guard so that you might accidentally hear what I&rsquo;m
really saying. And this is what one who is guiltless must do, and this
is what one who is guiltless finds it easy to do, over and over and over
again, forever. And that&rsquo;s you coming into your right Mind and
being out from your right Mind. That is the Atonement.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Each perceives the other as like himself, making them unable to
communicate because each sees the other UNLIKE the way he sees HIMSELF.
God can communicate ONLY to the Holy Spirit in your mind because only He
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; shares the knowledge of what you are with God.
</div>

And of course, the Holy Spirit is nothing more than your right Mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And only the Holy Spirit can ANSWER God for you, for only He knows what
God IS. Everything else that you have placed within your mind &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; through the use of imagination and thinking &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; CANNOT exist, for what is not in communication with the Mind of
God has never been. Communication with God is life.
</div>

Whew! Key statement!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Communication with God is life. Nothing without it IS at all.
</div>

So when you do this practice during the next two weeks, be aware, that
after observing your thinking, after observing the streaming of thoughts
and you say, &ldquo;But&rdquo;&mdash;meaning in spite of these thoughts
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&ldquo;My mind is part of God&rsquo;s. I am very holy.&rdquo;
</div>

That&rsquo;s the opening up of communication with God. That&rsquo;s the
reason for it. It isn&rsquo;t just to say &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&ldquo;My mind is a part of God&rsquo;s.&rdquo;
</div>

&ldquo;Isn&rsquo;t that wonderful? Isn&rsquo;t that a wonderful thing to
know? Go and tell everyone, &lsquo;Our mind is part of
God&rsquo;s.&rsquo; Spread the news, &lsquo;Our mind is part of
God&rsquo;s.&rsquo;&rdquo; No, don&rsquo;t spread the news, &ldquo;Our
mind is part of God&rsquo;s.&rdquo; Go inside yourself with that
statement and its meaning and let yourself into the experience of that
fact and what happens then will be worth sharing, except that you
won&rsquo;t have it on your mind to share as an idea or as a thought.
You&rsquo;ll be being the transformational presence of Love. Why? Not
for any reason. Just because that is what you are.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Communication with God is life.
</div>

Being without thinking constitutes being joined with God and that is
Life! It&rsquo;s very fundamental, it&rsquo;s very simple, but it is
profound. The allowing of that experience in you is what the Atonement
is.

The allowing of that experience in you is what the Atonement is.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The only part of your mind that has reality is the part which links you
still with God. Would you have ALL of it transformed into a radiant
message of God&rsquo;s Love, to share with all the lonely ones who
denied Him with you? GOD MAKES THIS POSSIBLE.
</div>

God is Omnipotent. There is none other than God. So if God makes this
possible, it is possible. If it is possible, it is ridiculous not to
embrace it with enthusiasm and diligence and, I&rsquo;m going to say, a
little self-discipline. And I&rsquo;m asking you to bring this
self-discipline into play everyday for the next two weeks&mdash;where
you step back no matter what the circumstance is, and you observe the
circumstance and what&rsquo;s going on in your mind. Observe whether
there is a flow of thoughts, whether there&rsquo;s a constant running
assessment, like a commentator on the news giving you a live feed of a
real event in the world, who gives you his opinions [snaps fingers] off
the top of his head as he tries the best he can to describe what&rsquo;s
going on without having the full picture yet. That&rsquo;s you.
That&rsquo;s you in your mind. As you go through your day you do this
running commentary and you believe it, and you think that it is what
makes you valuable. And I promise you, that the more intensely you
engage in it, the less you are connected with the world, the less you
are connected with your friends, your neighbors, your family, etc.

And you know what? People who end up preoccupied with what is going on
in their mind instead of what is going on everywhere are called,
&ldquo;old.&rdquo; Where their minds have gone, they&rsquo;re just not
with it anymore. All they can do is talk about uncle Henry or what
happened in 1932, or what they think is going on right now, but which
has nothing to do with what&rsquo;s going on.

You see, if the ultimate of living in your mind&mdash;meaning living
with the streams of thoughts you&rsquo;re engaged in creating&mdash;if
that means in its ultimate form, being ready to die being an ineffective
presence, a meaningless presence, then stop doing it when it isn&rsquo;t
that pronounced, and start doing what constitutes the Atonement.

So again, because it&rsquo;s important &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Would you have ALL of it &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning your mind, not just the part which links you still with
God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Would you have ALL of It transformed into a radiant message of
God&rsquo;s Love&hellip;
</div>

I&rsquo;m going to stop there.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; radiant message of God&rsquo;s Love&hellip;
</div>

Now just everybody be careful not to romanticize words or turn them into
religious bullshit.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Would you have ALL of &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your mind &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; transformed into a radiant message of God&rsquo;s Love&hellip;
</div>

What would a &ldquo;radiant message of God&rsquo;s Love&rdquo; look
like? Well, it would look like you being with your brother or sister,
your neighbor, your fellow employee&mdash;whoever it might be&mdash;in a
way that&rsquo;s very down-to-earth, very real and in a manner that
makes it easy for others to like themselves in a way that reduces fear
and invalidates a sense of guilt, and just by your being, generates
peace and resolution. It doesn&rsquo;t mean that you&rsquo;ll stand
there with streams of light exuding from your body and enveloping that
one in a fire of mystery that&rsquo;s transformational and spectacular
and weird and &hellip; perhaps scary.

God&rsquo;s Love is recognizably peaceful but alive, not conflicted, and
that which dissolves conflict and generates harmony in a manner
that&rsquo;s recognizable and understandable.

So, understanding that &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Would you have ALL of &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your mind&mdash;not just the part which still links you with
God &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Would you have ALL of it transformed into a radiant message of
God&rsquo;s Love, to share with all the lonely ones who denied Him with
you? GOD MAKES THIS POSSIBLE. Would you deny His yearning to be known?
You yearn for Him as He for you.
</div>

That which is one, if it seems to be put in a position of being split
into two, but which can&rsquo;t really be split into two, is always
going to be the one insisting upon being one, insisting upon undoing
that which creates an illusion of duality, an illusion of two-ness.
That&rsquo;s what it means.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Would you deny His yearning &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; God&rsquo;s yearning &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; to be known? You yearn for Him as He for you.
</div>

And I&rsquo;m going to say, you yearn for the Holy Spirit as the Holy
Spirit yearns for you, because the Holy Spirit is nothing more than your
right Mind and It hasn&rsquo;t stopped being that and It can&rsquo;t
stop being that. And therefore, every moment of your existence, when
you&rsquo;re trying to deny it and be a mind in your own right, on your
own, you are going to be experiencing a yearning. That&rsquo;s your
simple divine Sanity insisting upon being Whole and not having an
illusion of duality.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You yearn for Him as He for you. This is forever changeless. Accept,
then, the immutable. Leave the world of death behind, and return quietly
to Heaven.
</div>

Um-m &hellip; pretty strong word &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Leave the world of death behind&hellip;
</div>

But remember, communication with God is Life. Communication with God is
the experience, the full conscious experience of Creation without any
part of it excluded from your conscious awareness and without you in any
way separated from all of what Creations Is.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Communication with God is life.
</div>

Now it says &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Nothing without it IS at all.
</div>

But as long as you are insisting upon trying to go for the carrot of
independence, you are going to seem to create an uncomfortable
experience that is not life. So that&rsquo;s why it says &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Leave the world of death behind&hellip;
</div>

Leave the world of that which can&rsquo;t exist and therefore
doesn&rsquo;t exist at all. Leave it behind. Abandon thinking! Abandon
the thing that seems to create it. Leave it!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Leave the world of death behind, and return quietly to Heaven.

&ldquo;My mind is part of God&rsquo;s.&rdquo;
</div>

Well, there&rsquo;s the shift. There&rsquo;s the willingness to know
that there&rsquo;s a place other than second gear, that there&rsquo;s a
circumstance other than orphanhood.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&ldquo;My mind is part of God&rsquo;s.&rdquo;
</div>

You know what that means? That means that all of your mind is part of
God&rsquo;s Mind. God constitutes all there is of your Mind. God
constitutes all of your Mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Leave the world of death behind, and return quietly to Heaven.
</div>

Return quietly to your right Mind by abandoning the fight to achieve the
right to have a mind of your own all by yourself. That&rsquo;s what it
means.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Leave the world of death behind, and return quietly to Heaven. There is
NOTHING of value here&hellip;
</div>

Where? Here on planet Earth? Here in this Universe? No &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is NOTHING of value here&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in the world you are creating by virtue of causing what you
call streaming consciousness, streaming thoughts, which, although you
fool yourself into thinking that you&rsquo;re engaging in for the
purpose of coping with life, you are actually engaging in it for no
other purpose than to prove to yourself that you exist in your own
right.

The thought has been expressed that sometimes infants cry to hear the
sound of their voice to reassure themselves that they&rsquo;re alive.
They like to hear the sound of their voice because it comforts them.
Well, likewise you all think for the purpose of comforting yourself. And
what is it that comforts you? Some kind of evidence that you exist in
your own right. And that&rsquo;s exactly why there is such great fear to
abandon it and allow the silence.

But it says &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Leave the world of death behind&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; leave second and third gear behind &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and return quietly to Heaven.
</div>

&hellip; first gear.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is NOTHING of value here&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in second or third gear &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and EVERYTHING of value there.
</div>

&hellip; in first gear. You in your right Mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Listen to the Holy Spirit, and to God through Him.
</div>

That is, when you embody it&mdash;the meaning of the Atonement.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; speaks of you to YOU.
</div>

Being nothing more than your right Mind, It reveals Itself to you as
your right Mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He speaks of you to YOU. There IS no guilt in you, for God is blessed in
His Son as the Son is blessed in Him.
</div>

You complete God as God completes you by being you. You, letting God be
your Source, complete God consciously, and you close the circle, you
might say. The little gap evaporates. And there is no separation.

Now, I gave you a practice for the coming two weeks. And this practice
is very practical because it truly provides you with the opportunity to
experience the Atonement in the only place where it can be experienced,
which is in your Mind and is constituted of your shifting your valuing
from your thinking to listening to the Voice for Truth, listening for
God&rsquo;s Mind, listening for what God Knows. And letting that
experience provide you with the real definitions of you&mdash;the holy
one that you really Are and the holy one that your brothers truly Are.

It&rsquo;s going to happen as you shift from second gear to first gear.
And when you do that shift, everything&mdash;the world, the universe,
everything&mdash;is going to reflect God. Everything will be
recognizably God Being All. Your brother will be transformed. You will
be transformed. Everything will be transformed. That&rsquo;s what you
say you want. And that truly is what you want. But you&rsquo;re going to
have to use a little self-discipline.

Now, one last word. No matter how many surprising things you learn as a
result of stepping back and noticing the streams of thoughts that are
going through your mind multiple times during the day, no matter what
kind of interesting things you discover, don&rsquo;t take them
seriously, don&rsquo;t stand in awe of them, to the point where you
neglect to say, &ldquo;But!&rdquo; You see, you must follow it with the
word &hellip;

&ldquo;But &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
My mind is part of God&rsquo;s. I am very holy.&rdquo;
</div>

If you find yourself having interesting discoveries as you do this,
don&rsquo;t get together with other students of the Course who are doing
it too and talk about the interesting things you discovered about your
thinking. [Chuckling] It&rsquo;s irrelevant what the interesting things
were about your thinking. What&rsquo;s relevant is if you say &hellip;

&ldquo;But &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
My mind is part of God&rsquo;s. I am very holy.&rdquo;
</div>

Now, when you do that, what happens, will be the wonderful things to
share.

Don&rsquo;t become impressed with how apparently convoluted and complex
and usually negative your thinking processes are. It&rsquo;s irrelevant.
Notice them so that you can recognize them when they try to reassert
themselves out of habit, so that you can say once again, more [snaps
fingers] quickly &hellip;

&ldquo;But &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
My mind is part of God&rsquo;s. I am very holy.&rdquo;
</div>

I love you. And I look forward to being with you two weeks from tonight.
Have fun with the practice. Okay.

[^1]: Workbook Lesson 35
[^2]: T14.1 Guilt and Guiltlessness

