---
title: May 25, 2008
ref: "T14.1 Guilt and Guiltlessness"
alink: "/acim/text/14/chap1401/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

You are all going to find out, that as you&rsquo;re willing to leave
second gear, that when you&rsquo;re ready and willing to abandon the
orphan mindset and shift back to first gear, you&rsquo;re going to give
up something that you didn&rsquo;t think you were going to give up.
I&rsquo;m clueing you into it tonight.

What it is that you&rsquo;ll be giving up is your personality&mdash;the
face you present to the world&mdash;the face you present to yourself to
establish your belief in yourself.

The simple fact is, that what you call your identity which is mostly
personality, is the defense mechanism you developed for self-protection
&ldquo;in the world.&rdquo; In other words, it&rsquo;s not that great or
that magnanimous a thing. It&rsquo;s really a shield. It&rsquo;s really
a defense. It&rsquo;s really the way you protect yourself against all
the threat that exists &ldquo;out there&rdquo; as you grew up in the
orphanage in the world.

You tried out different behaviors. You tried out different physical
behaviors, different mental behaviors, different interactive behaviors
to see what worked for you. And some of you have defense mechanisms that
look like being a wimp&mdash;your defense mechanism is a matter of
constantly saying in one way or another, &ldquo;Poor me… poor me…
can&rsquo;t you see how poor I am… can&rsquo;t you see how much I need
help…won&rsquo;t you help me?&rdquo; If you get really good at this, you
can command quite a bit of authority over those around you, who, out of
pity for you, will give you exactly what you want&mdash;exactly what you
did all of this for. And yet, you weren&rsquo;t like the bully who says,
&ldquo;Damn it! Give me what I want. If you don&rsquo;t give me what I
want I&rsquo;m going to punch you out! I&rsquo;m going to hurt
you!&rdquo;

And that&rsquo;s the way control is exercised for the purpose of
protecting one&rsquo;s self. And so, everybody gets to know your
personality. And if your personality is pretty consistent, they will
call it, &ldquo;your individuality.&rdquo; When all along, all it is, is
a style of behavior, which you have created for self-protection.

Now, some of you use styles of behavior that are &ldquo;very
civilized&rdquo; that appear to be almost flawless and appear to be
entirely generous, thoughtful, caring. And yet the fact is, that you
behave in this way because you know the people will respond in a way
that meets your needs. And so it&rsquo;s a way you
survive&mdash;it&rsquo;s a way you protect yourself and doesn&rsquo;t
necessarily have anything to do with having connected with and related
to the person you are manipulating by your &ldquo;civilized
behavior.&rdquo;

Now, if you didn&rsquo;t know this, you might get stuck quite a long
time in making the shift from second gear to first gear, because you
would try to bring your personality/individuality along with you from
second gear to first gear&mdash;from the orphanage to Home. And you
would find yourself becoming frustrated because the shift won&rsquo;t
occur even though you&rsquo;re expecting it.

You&rsquo;re not an orphan. And everything you&rsquo;ve believed about
yourself from within the orphan mindset is not true. This is why there
is something absolutely essential to Waking up, and that is, yielding to
Something different from you. The Holy Spirit is that which is nothing
more than your right Mind. But you do not recognize yourself as that.
You have disowned that. You have put it on the back burner: &ldquo;Out
of sight, out of mind.&rdquo; No. But out of sight, ignoring it, you
don&rsquo;t remember it.

In order to wake up, you have to become re-united with that which is
nothing more than your right Mind. And in order for that to happen,
you&rsquo;re going to have to abandon what you call your
identity&mdash;what you currently call your identity. You&rsquo;re going
to have to be willing to let go of your personality.

You&rsquo;re going to have to let in that which is not recognizable to
you at the moment even though it is utterly you. And that&rsquo;s why
you must dare to become silent and listen with the desire to hear the
Holy Spirit, or your Guide. You must transfer your attention from
selfishness, to what we&rsquo;ll call, otherness, because the Holy
Spirit seems to be something not you.

You can&rsquo;t take who you think you are with you into the Kingdom of
Heaven. Another way of saying that is, you can&rsquo;t take who you
think you are with you into the conscious experience of what you really
Are.

Now, I want you to tuck that information away, but don&rsquo;t forget
it. We&rsquo;re not going to discuss it further at the present time. But
remain aware of it.

Now the simple fact is, that fear and love cannot occupy the same space.

Love is essential to healing. Love is essential to the experience to
right-mindedness. Love is essential to waking up. Love, which is the
opposite of isolation, is essential to your making the shift from second
gear to first gear.

Some of you, as you have been doing the practice over the last three
weeks now, may have found it difficult to acknowledge the guiltlessness
of your brother or sister and be willing to hold your brother or sister
up to the Father in acknowledgement of what is true about them. The
reason being, that for one reason or another, you&rsquo;re in a state of
fear. And you found that in the state of fear, when you did remember
about the practice and tried to do it, you not only weren&rsquo;t able
to, you quite adamantly didn&rsquo;t want to. Why? Because when you are
afraid, it is essential to behave in aggressive
self-protection&mdash;you see, defensiveness, isolation. And in that
state of fear, you can&rsquo;t be too sure which one of your brothers or
sisters is safe to be defenseless with and which ones are not safe to be
defenseless with. And so you&rsquo;re not about to let down your guard
because you&rsquo;re overcome with fear. You see?

You&rsquo;ve had the experience, if you&rsquo;ve tried to do the
practice when fear has a grip on you, that it&rsquo;s impossible and you
don&rsquo;t even want to do it because it&rsquo;s inconsistent with your
need to be protected. And you didn&rsquo;t know that. You didn&rsquo;t
know that that was an aspect of the dynamic of fear. You didn&rsquo;t
know that when you are afraid and you&rsquo;re not challenging the fear
you&rsquo;re feeling, you automatically block that which would relieve
the fear. You automatically block that which would alter the
circumstances which seem to be calling for the fear.

Now that you&rsquo;ve had that experience, and you understand it
experientially, you can in the future, when fear arises, challenge it.
Don&rsquo;t just sit there nurturing it. Don&rsquo;t roll it over in
your mind and feel all of the awfulness of it and how justified it is,
and what a miserable state of affairs it is for you to be caught in fear
and stuck there.

If you know that love and fear cannot occupy the same space at the same
time, then bring into the space of your experience, that which fear
can&rsquo;t be in the presence of. Simple. Bring Love in.

Well, here&rsquo;s a simple way you can do it. It&rsquo;s not an
ultimate way, but it&rsquo;s a beginning: When you find yourself
consumed with fear, immobilized by fear, find things to appreciate. Let
there be little acknowledgements of gratitude for this or that or the
other thing. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m so grateful I&rsquo;m not freezing to
death like I was during the winter. I&rsquo;m so glad it&rsquo;s cloudy
but not raining because I have some things I need to do.&rdquo; See,
these are not even totally positive appreciations or gratitudes, but
they are expressions of gratitude and they shift the
attention&mdash;they shift the energy in you.

Ultimately, what you need to do is to find in your experience, a brother
to love&mdash;a brother to appreciate&mdash;not just someone who did a
kind thing for you last week that you really appreciate. That&rsquo;s a
wonderful thing to appreciate, but I want it to go further than that.
Because you see, when you say, &ldquo;I really appreciate that Joe knew
something about cars and was able to reset something in my car that I
didn&rsquo;t know how to do&mdash;how to fix.&rdquo; When that kind of
gratitude is still just between the two of you, it doesn&rsquo;t lift
your brother up to the Father. And without lifting your brother up to
the Father in acknowledgment of his value and his worth, the experience
of Family, the experience of unity in the context of Reality,
isn&rsquo;t occurring.

If you don&rsquo;t lift your brother up to the Father, if you
don&rsquo;t love your brother as an expression of gratitude and
acknowledgement of truth about him to your Father, it leaves the
inseparable oneness of Creation un-illumined. It leaves it in the
shadows where it can&rsquo;t be seen. And if you do not lift your
brother into the conscious sense of Family&mdash;of your both having a
common Father/Mother&mdash;you leave yourself out as well. If you leave
yourself out, you&rsquo;re still in second gear, not where you really
want to be.

So, you must do what relieves you of fear when fear has a grip on you,
and you must do it in a way that not only relieves you of the experience
of fear, but that which introduces Love into the arena and in the
presence of Love, re-unites you, your brother and your Father/Mother
once again. Because that is what will promote the sudden shift of
perception, called a miracle, in which you suddenly find yourself in
first gear, absent fear, absent loneliness, absent vulnerability,
present with your brother&rsquo;s guiltlessness and your own
guiltlessness, and absent the personality that you so lovingly created
for yourself as you grew up in the orphanage, thus allowing you to be in
a new way, arising not out of practiced habits, but out of present
ongoing communion with the Father in which you let His perspective fill
you and be the ground from which you behave.

Some people move from one country to another and take out citizenship in
the new country and give up their original citizenship. That is a pretty
dynamic step&mdash;a pretty emotional step, a pretty significant
step&mdash;because you are letting what used to identify you to you and
everyone else, go, and you are embracing something new that will
identify you to you and to everyone else.

Waking up is sort of like that. It&rsquo;s giving up citizenship in
orphanland, which means giving up who you thought you were, and giving
up how you behaved in that particular context. Oh-h, is that a little
scary? Or is that, perhaps, something you can think of more positively?
Might that not be rebirth? Might that not be redemption, where old
things have passed away and all things have become new? You like those
phrases&mdash;&ldquo;Where old things have passed away and all things
have become new.&rdquo; Now you know it means including you.

Let&rsquo;s go into the book.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The miracle &hellip; [^1]
</div>

&hellip; the sudden shift of awareness, the sudden shift of perception
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The miracle acknowledges the guiltlessness which MUST have been denied
to produce NEED of healing.
</div>

If you&rsquo;re in need of healing, somewhere along the line you must
have denied your guiltlessness. Well, you say, [chuckling] &ldquo;Well,
yeah, of course I did. I made an ass out of myself. I was a fool. I
deserve everything I got.&rdquo; Wrong! Change your behavior by letting
that Mind be in you, which is your real Mind&mdash;the Holy Spirit.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The miracle acknowledges the guiltlessness which MUST have been denied
to produce NEED of healing. Do not withhold this glad
acknowledgment&hellip;
</div>

What glad acknowledgement? Did it talk about… oh yeah, the miracle
acknowledges the guiltlessness. Hm-m… the miracle acknowledges… A sudden
shift of perception is an acknowledgement of something new isn&rsquo;t
it! The miracle acknowledges guiltlessness. The miracle acknowledges
perfection. The miracle acknowledges who you really Are. The miracle
acknowledges who your brother or sister really Is. Ah-h… the miracle
acknowledges what the Universe is: The Kingdom of Heaven.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Do not withhold this glad acknowledgment&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the glad acknowledgement that the miracle is.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Do not withhold this glad acknowledgment, for hope of happiness and
release from suffering of every kind lie in it.
</div>

Now you know that the miracle&mdash;the sudden shift of
perception&mdash;involves a sudden shift in how you recognize yourself,
not the personality you thought you were, not the character that you
carefully developed. That&rsquo;s part of the glad acknowledgement of
who you really Are.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; release from suffering of every kind lie in it.
</div>

The miracle, the glad acknowledgment.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Who is there but wishes to be free of pain?
</div>

Everyone. Right? Everyone.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Who is there but wishes to be free of pain? He may not yet have learned
HOW to exchange his guilt for innocence, nor realize that only in this
exchange can freedom from pain be his.
</div>

And you could read it with reference to yourself: You may not yet have
learned how to exchange your guilt for innocence, nor realize that only
in this exchange can freedom from pain be yours.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet, those who have failed to learn need &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what? &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; TEACHING, NOT attack. To attack those who have need of teaching
is to fail to learn from them.
</div>

&hellip; fail to learn from them &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To attack those who have need of teaching &hellip;
</div>

Well, that certainly seems to imply that if you&rsquo;re attacking
someone who is in need of teaching, you are there to be the one to do
the teaching. But you thought all you had to do was have a
reaction&mdash;perhaps a self-righteous reaction. &ldquo;Yeah, well
what can you expect?&rdquo; The same kind of self-righteous reaction you
apply to yourself: &ldquo;What could I expect? I was an ass-hole. I
deserve everything I got.&rdquo; You don&rsquo;t think that&rsquo;s
self-righteous but it is. It&rsquo;s a little strange isn&rsquo;t it…
that you self-righteously stand there and judge yourself? &ldquo;Well I
deserve everything I get&mdash;I deserve the suffering I&rsquo;m
having!&rdquo; [Chuckling] And you believe yourself. You say that and
you don&rsquo;t even recognize how ridiculous that is. You
self-righteously judge the unrighteous bastard that you&rsquo;re
defining yourself as. And you don&rsquo;t even wince at the lack of
logic. You would rather wince at the suffering that you deserve because
you were so stupid!

Oh-h &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet those who have failed to learn need TEACHING, NOT attack. To attack
those who have need of teaching is to fail to learn from them.
</div>

You&rsquo;re here, you&rsquo;re here, you&rsquo;re here to learn how to
let go of your personality. You&rsquo;re here to learn how to let go of
the individuality that you have created such a wonderful presentation
of. And you&rsquo;re here to do it by not relating to each other
self-righteously, not relating to each other on the basis of principles
that you mentally apply to each other and to your own behavior toward
each other.

You&rsquo;re to let go of your personality by becoming defenseless with
your brother. Ah-h, that means that when you are in a state of fear
you&rsquo;ve got to become defenseless enough to connect with them so
that you might feel their need, so that you might be able to experience
the influx of clarity that allows you to answer their need, because
you&rsquo;ve really connected with what they divinely are, and can
provide them with the acknowledgement of their innocence of their
guiltlessness. And you do it. And so you learn from them. And you teach
by loving. You teach by extending the acknowledgement of their value and
their worth and their Meaning.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Teachers of innocence, each in his own way, have joined together, taking
their part in the unified curriculum of the Atonement.
</div>

Well, teachers of innocence… that&rsquo;s you, that&rsquo;s you,
that&rsquo;s you, you, you, you, you, everyone. Why are you teachers of
innocence? Not because it&rsquo;s a glorious thing to do, but because
you are nothing less than the Mind of God extending Itself in
acknowledgement of the value and worth of everything that allows you to
see all of creation without distortion, without conflict or
polarization, with absolute utter harmony and beauty.

You&rsquo;re here to teach innocence, because experiencing innocence is
your Birthright. It&rsquo;s the only thing God gave you the capacity to
do because you are His offspring and you reflect Him.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is no unity of learning goals apart from this. There is no
conflict in this curriculum, which has ONE aim however it is taught.
</div>

No matter what words the aim might come out in, no matter what language
it is expressed in, there&rsquo;s no conflict in it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Each effort made on its behalf is offered for the single purpose of
RELEASE from guilt, to the eternal glory of God and His creation.
</div>

I know, those words are once again grand and nebulous in terms of
meaning. But you know what? At times each one of you&mdash;maybe only
twice, maybe only once&mdash;each one of you has had the experience of
being touched. You would call it being touched in a relationship with
another, or in a relationship with an environment, or in relationship
with nature. It was a moment of release from guilt in which what you
would call illumination occurred, totally unasked for, but incredible.
It constituted a release from guilt into an experience of holiness. It
was a divine experience that you could apply no other word to other than
divine. You&rsquo;ve had it at least once. And you&rsquo;ll never forget
it. And you haven&rsquo;t forgotten it.

So that&rsquo;s a taste of the experience of the eternal glory of God
and His creation. What I&rsquo;m trying to bring out to you is that,
that taste occurred right here on planet Earth, right here in your
relationships with each other. You had a taste of the Kingdom of Heaven
right where the Kingdom of Heaven is, even though you have called it
something else, a material universe&mdash;relationships with other egos,
relationships with organisms. You know, just things that came
spontaneously, generated physically by physicality, a sperm and an egg,
you know. And it happened while you were relating to nothing but a bunch
of other conditioned responses that you call a personality and that they
call their personalities, and they&rsquo;re responding to your
conditioned responses that you call your personality. You see?

How awful, how short-sighted, how shallow, how depthless and meaningless
an experience you&rsquo;re generally having of Reality, of the Kingdom
of Heaven, of the other Sons and Daughters of God&rsquo;s that are your
brothers and sisters because you&rsquo;re one of God&rsquo;s Children
too.

So, it&rsquo;s a wonderful thing to be reminded that you are teachers of
innocence. You&rsquo;re teachers of innocence because the
acknowledgement of innocence is the one capacity that God has given you.
And the capacity to think that you think God gave you, God didn&rsquo;t
give you.

So you see, we&rsquo;re learning of shifts of different kinds as you
move from second gear to first gear.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Each effort made on its behalf &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Atonement &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is offered for the single purpose of RELEASE from guilt, to the
eternal glory of God and His creation.
</div>

Which is nothing more than an incredibly clear experience of the reality
of everything that&rsquo;s going on in your face at this moment.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And every teaching that points to this points straight to Heaven, and to
the peace of God. There is no pain, no trial, no fear that teaching this
can fail to overcome. The power of God Himself supports this teaching,
and GUARANTEES its limitless results.
</div>

&ldquo;Yeah… yeah… yeah… right! &lsquo;Guarantees its limitless
results.&rsquo; I&rsquo;ll tell you, last week I didn&rsquo;t experience
any limitless results. I didn&rsquo;t have time to have limitless
results because I was so upset with so-and-so. And I had a right to be.
He&rsquo;s such a bastard that I had to use every bit of my energy and
all of my time to defend myself against his abusing me, taking advantage
of me, hurting me. [Chuckling] You want me to hold him up to God and
acknowledge something of value in him? Oh yeah, I know, you want me… to
hell with him… you want me to use my mind well. That&rsquo;s a real
mind-fuck that you&rsquo;re trying to pull on me. You want me to watch
how I&rsquo;m using my mind, when that bastard out there is intent upon
taking advantage of me? Hell no, that&rsquo;s asinine.&rdquo;

Well, there you have an example of somebody securely stuck in second
gear&mdash;that&rsquo;s all, that&rsquo;s all. You&rsquo;ve just watched
and heard an expression of being second gearish. And that&rsquo;s all,
that&rsquo;s all it was.

Now if somebody else were the one behaving like that and you were
watching and I was with you and I said, &ldquo;Look at that example of
being stuck in second gear.&rdquo; You would say, &ldquo;Wow, yeah,
it&rsquo;s clear as a bell to me.&rdquo; But let me point at you and
say, &ldquo;Look at yourself doing that,&rdquo; and you&rsquo;ll bristle
immediately. You won&rsquo;t be able to see it, because you know better
than anyone else how threatened you are and how essential it is to be
defended. And you will fixate on your brother out there as the reason
for your needing to be defended. And you will refuse to bother to notice
how you&rsquo;re using your mind. You will refuse to abandon the highly
focused attention on your brother so that you might bring some focused
attention upon how you&rsquo;re using your mind. But until you&rsquo;re
willing to take a look at how you&rsquo;re using your mind and until
you&rsquo;re willing to look at it with a certain degree of logic, you
won&rsquo;t be able to notice that you are refusing to allow that which
will remove the fear that you&rsquo;re experiencing into the place or
space where the fear is occurring. You won&rsquo;t let Love in. You
won&rsquo;t let It in by daring to engage in an act of love and
employing your mind in a different mode and energy. And so you will be
stuck.

I&rsquo;m telling this to you right now when, hopefully, you&rsquo;re
not upset and not deeply in a state of fear so that you&rsquo;ll say,
&ldquo;I see what he&rsquo;s saying. I am grasping the meaning in a
contextual way within me.&rdquo; And if you&rsquo;re getting it now it
will be easier to remember this the next time you begin to be controlled
by fear and justify self-protection and a refusal to lift your brother
up and consequently lift yourself up. And you will be able to shift back
into being a teacher of innocence.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The power of God Himself supports this teaching, and GUARANTEES its
limitless results.
</div>

The simple fact is that if you bring Love into the space where fear is
immobilizing you, the immobilization and the fear will leave. And you
will not be immobilized and healing will absolutely occur. It&rsquo;s a
Law! It&rsquo;s the Truth!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Join your own efforts to the power that CANNOT fail and MUST result in
peace.

Join your own efforts &hellip;
</div>

Now, this is an invitation. It&rsquo;s also a command. If you want to
wake up be obedient to this command and nothing will stand in your way.
So it&rsquo;s not a command in the terms of coercion, it&rsquo;s just a
command of guidance&mdash;very clear, very true, very simple guidance.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Join your own efforts to the power that CANNOT fail &hellip;
</div>

What power is that?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The power of God Himself &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; supports this teaching, and GUARANTEES its limitless results.
</div>

So, right in the thick of it, right when you&rsquo;re caught in fear and
right when you&rsquo;re defending yourself against your brother, or so
defended by something else that a call for Love from a brother
can&rsquo;t be responded to, because you&rsquo;ve got to be so busy
defending yourself over in this other arena. Right in the thick of it
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Join your own efforts to the power that CANNOT fail and MUST result in
peace. No-one can be untouched by teaching such as this. You will not
see yourself beyond the power of God if you teach only this. You will
not be exempt from the effects of this most holy lesson, which seeks but
to restore what is the right of God&rsquo;s creation.
</div>

What is the right of God&rsquo;s creation that will be restored to you?
Your Birthright, your Inheritance by virtue of Whom your Source is.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
From everyone whom you accord release from guilt you will inevitably
learn YOUR [own] innocence.
</div>

Why? Because when you accord innocence to a brother, it means you have
extended love. And if you have extended love, you&rsquo;ve done that
which eradicated the presence of fear that governed you and caused you
to develop a personality, which was nothing but a stylized form of
self-defense. And in your extension of love you began to use your mind
differently. And as a result of using your mind differently and being
undefended… what? A sudden shift of perception could occur, a miracle.
And you were blessed by your encounter with your brother.

Again, because it&rsquo;s the wonderful truth, from everyone whom you
accord release from guilt you will inevitably learn your innocence.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The circle of Atonement HAS no end. And you will find ever-increasing
confidence in your safe inclusion in what is for all in everyone you
bring within its safety and its perfect peace.
</div>

Now, you know what? You don&rsquo;t have to go out… you don&rsquo;t have
to begin your day tomorrow examining the personality that you&rsquo;ve
created and study it to find the fine lines of defense that have been
covered over in very particular expressions of kindness and
thoughtfulness and dignity and respect for your brother. No. All you
have to do is find a reason to extend love to your brother, by
acknowledging to God what is of value in your brother. Not a bad idea.
The only thing is that, if you will begin to do that on purpose,
you&rsquo;ll find there are times that you really don&rsquo;t want to do
that. And those are the places where the miracle is called for. Those
are the places where you need to assume your position &ldquo;as a
teacher of innocence.&rdquo; And by engaging in that, you will provide
the environment for learning to occur. You will provide the environment
for shifting from second gear to first gear to occur.

So you see, this isn&rsquo;t an intellectual process of self-examination
by means of which you will arrive at enlightenment. No. It&rsquo;s more
down-to-earth than that and it&rsquo;s less selfish and self-centered
than that. It means involvement with your brother and your
sister&mdash;involving yourself with your brother and sister in a way
that brings out the one capacity that God has given you and lets it find
expression in the world.

This is how you wake up. This is how you contribute to the
transformation from one culture to another culture, right here.
You&rsquo;re invited to be what you Really Are here, not in the
&ldquo;sweet-by-and-by.&rdquo; You are invited by this book and
everything in it. You&rsquo;re invited by the truth to have the ultimate
revealed to you here and now, about everything you&rsquo;re already
aware of and more. But don&rsquo;t go for the more. You go for that
carrot and you&rsquo;ll miss that of which you&rsquo;re already aware,
and its renewal in your mind, and its transformation in your mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The power of God Himself supports this teaching, and GUARANTEES its
limitless results.
</div>

Lets have a week of limitless results. And lets be willing to let go of
all the cherished personalities. And let the new you come
forth&mdash;the you that has always been&mdash;that which is nothing
more than your right Mind, the Holy Spirit.

Okay. I look forward to being with you next week.

[^1]: T14.1 Guilt and Guiltlessness

