---
title: Jun 1, 2008
ref: "T14.1 Guilt and Guiltlessness"
alink: "/acim/text/14/chap1401/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

So, we&rsquo;re talking about letting a &ldquo;new you&rdquo; come
forth&mdash;the &ldquo;you&rdquo; that has been covered up by the
personality that you have developed with which you identify yourself,
and by means of which you keep yourself safe.

If I were to tell you that the new you will be a holy man or a holy
woman, truly a holy man or a holy woman, how many of you would put down
this book and opt for a little snooze, so to speak, and put off this
inevitable, questionable experience?

So, let&rsquo;s ask what is the meaning&mdash;or what is the definition
of a holy man. Is it someone who sits in robes and who has capacity to
bless, who walks around with crowds trailing after him&mdash;sort of an
unnatural spectacle, we&rsquo;ll say? If indeed it was happening in your
office or as you were walking down the street or buying groceries in the
grocery store, none of you would really opt for that, I don&rsquo;t
think, unless you were able to set up a special environment in which you
could be in this fashion, where the environment and everyone in it
accommodated it.

Would you want to be, really, unusually special? Yes. But what is really
unusually special is to be able to be an incredible friend. And
that&rsquo;s what a holy man is, or a holy woman.

A real holy man or holy woman is one who meets you right where you are.
One who &ldquo;be&rsquo;s&rdquo; with you right where you are, who loves
you whether you&rsquo;re in your peace or whether you&rsquo;re
frightened, who is able to encourage you whether you&rsquo;re in your
peace or whether you&rsquo;re frightened, one who is dedicated to you
and in whose presence you always come out on top. What I mean by that
is, that you always end up being blessed in your experience by virtue of
your relationship.

An incredible friend is not particularly noticeable if the two of you
are walking down the street. There&rsquo;s nothing weird about it, even
though everything about it for you is transformational.

This is the kind of thing we&rsquo;re talking about when we describe the
&ldquo;new you&rdquo; that will be coming forth as you let it be
uncovered in the absence of your maintaining a terrific personality or a
powerful personality or a successful personality.

All personalities keep all of you preoccupied from connecting with your
brother as an incredible friend, because the key attribute of an
incredible friend is that he doesn&rsquo;t have himself on his mind.
He&rsquo;s not in relationship with you to &ldquo;get&rdquo; but to
give&mdash;to be present with.

What is the one thing that God has given you the capacity to do? To
acknowledge guiltlessness. Strange thing you might think. Why would God
give everyone the capacity to recognize guiltlessness? Well, because He
gave you the capacity to see what He created. And what He created is
guiltless. What He created is flawless&mdash;is perfect. What He created
is imbued with and expresses&mdash;embodies, kindness, love, respect,
caring, giving, affection, and on and on. Of course He&rsquo;s given you
the capacity to recognize guiltlessness or innocence.

Because He gave you the capacity to recognize guiltlessness, you have
the capacity to experience all of Creation with nothing left
out&mdash;nothing hidden from you. You could say that, by virtue of
giving you the capacity to recognize and acknowledge guiltlessness, God
gave you the ability to see with His Mind&mdash;to see all of Creation
with Him and in seeing it with Him, being co-creators.

Once again, we&rsquo;re getting into these high-falutin&rsquo; words.
But let&rsquo;s back up. Because this capacity that God gave you, that
is the equivalent of His giving you His Mind, is what describes an
incredible friend, something very simple and down to earth, something
very present and relevant to where all of you find yourselves today. But
because it&rsquo;s much more than you have conceived yourselves to be,
it means that you stand on the threshold of incredible breakthrough, of
incredible revelation, of incredible insight, all of which will cause
you not to be strange, but to be an incredible friend.

You could also say that a holy man or a holy woman&mdash;you in your
true characteristics&mdash;are teachers of innocence. Because if you
have the capacity to see innocence, if you have the capacity to
acknowledge innocence&mdash;guiltlessness, you inevitably and
unavoidably teach innocence by the way you behave toward all that you
experience that is guiltless. You won&rsquo;t sit down with a book and
teach guiltlessness. You&rsquo;ll put your arm around your brother and
in that simple act will be a profound experience of love that conveys
pure and simple but ultimate acceptance&mdash;innocence&mdash;the
innocence of the one being embraced so purely. You see?

As we read last time &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Join your own efforts to the power that CANNOT fail and MUST result in
peace.
</div>

Join with the Father by making it your joy to take your brother and hold
him or her up to the Father, in praise of your brother or sister, in
acknowledgement of his worth, of his value, of his or her innocence.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Join your own efforts to the power that CANNOT fail and MUST result in
peace.
</div>

Well, I tell you, when you are embraced by, immersed in the experience
of your innocence, it is an experience of perfect peace. There is no
fear, there is no undercurrent, there is no uneasiness, there is no
disturbance. The experience of innocence is simultaneously an experience
of perfect peace. It is your Birthright to be experiencing it and it is
your brother&rsquo;s and sister&rsquo;s Birthright to be experiencing
it. And it will be experienced when each of you extend&mdash;when each
of you cares enough to extend&mdash;the acknowledgement of your
brother&rsquo;s or sister&rsquo;s innocence.

Your willingness to acknowledge that your brother or sister is not just
the physical offspring of a physical parent, but is in actuality, the
direct and present expression of the Life Principle, of the movement of
Life itself, called God. This is the marvelous and wonderful function.
We could call it a task, but nobody likes work. But it is your
function, it is your natural spontaneous function built into you because
God gave you the capacity to acknowledge innocence, to acknowledge
guiltlessness, to see His Creation as it is without any distortion
whatsoever.

So a teacher of innocence is a teacher of peace as well. And on that
note, let&rsquo;s go into the book.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Peace, then, be unto everyone who becomes a teacher of peace. For peace
is the acknowledgment of perfect purity from which no-one is excluded.
Within its holy circle is everyone whom God created as His Son.[^1]
</div>

&hellip; as His offspring, as His daughter.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Joy is its unifying attribute, with no-one left outside to suffer guilt
alone. The power of God draws everyone to its safe embrace of love and
union.
</div>

Well, you know, you can be sarcastic and say, &ldquo;Yeah &hellip; right
&hellip; right &hellip; the power of God draws everyone to its safe
embrace of love and union &hellip; I sure haven&rsquo;t experienced it!
And if God is all powerful and omnipotent as everyone says He is, then
He should have a way to make the attractiveness of His Gift unavoidably
in my face so I can&rsquo;t possibly miss it &hellip; and I&rsquo;ve
been missing it!&rdquo; Nevertheless &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The power of God draws everyone to its safe embrace of love and union.
</div>

The simple fact is, that every single one of you who isn&rsquo;t
experiencing it, is pissed off about it. You don&rsquo;t like your life
the way it&rsquo;s going when you&rsquo;re not experiencing it, and you
know down at the bottom line of your very being, that it is your
Birthright to be experiencing it.

So the fact is, that the power of God does draw everyone to its safe
embrace of love and union. And what I&rsquo;m saying is, stop being
pissed off about not experiencing it, and siphoning off your capacity to
recognize innocence or guiltlessness because you are getting such a hit
out of being pissed off&mdash;being angry&mdash;griping about the
injustice.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The power of God draws everyone to its safe embrace of love and union.
Stand quietly within this circle, and attract all tortured minds to join
with you in the safety of its peace and holiness.
</div>

In other words, be the holy man that you really Are. Be that which
stands quietly within this circle of peace, this circle of love, this
circle of unity. And, by being an incredible friend&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; attract all tortured minds to join with you in the safety of
its peace and holiness. Abide with me within it, as teachers of
Atonement, NOT of guilt.
</div>

The subject of this chapter is Bringing Illusions to Truth. And here we
are, discussing the act, we&rsquo;ll say, of bringing who you think you
are to the truth of what you really Are. You see? &ldquo;What,
you&rsquo;re calling me an illusion? &ldquo; No, you&rsquo;re very real,
but who you think you are is an illusion. And who you present so
strongly to everyone else is not the real you. But I&rsquo;ll talk to
the one you think you are and I will invite you, I will entice you, I
will try to make attractive to you the abandonment of who you think you
are because there&rsquo;s something or someone so much more meaningful
right there where you are, than the personality you&rsquo;re presenting.
And I want for you to be experiencing it.

And if I can inspire in you the slightest bit of faith, that
there&rsquo;s something very different and something much more
meaningful to the essential you than who you think you are at this
moment, that will help you be willing to withdraw your intense faith in
who you think you are and dare to explore whatever the potentials might
be of who and what you really Are.

That&rsquo;s what an incredible friend does. And that&rsquo;s your task
to share or be with others. And it&rsquo;s a capacity that God gave
you&mdash;the capacity to acknowledge guiltlessness in your brother.

You see, I&rsquo;m inviting you to join me in extending to each other
what I&rsquo;m extending to you. And by virtue of your being an
incredible friend with others, you will be extending the invitation to
them to do the same thing for those they come in contact with. And so it
becomes an on-going extension&mdash;a spreading of a change of mentality
that constitutes the birthing of a new culture.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Blessed are you who teach with me.
</div>

Why &hellip; because I&rsquo;m so great? No. Blessed are those who teach
with you as well. Why &hellip; because you&rsquo;re great? No. Because
those who have abandoned second gear&mdash;those who have abandoned a
self-important independent position, those who have abandoned autonomy
and have actually rejoined with their family, with their brothers and
sisters are uncovering and illuminating the Kingdom of
Heaven&mdash;Reality as it is. Let&rsquo;s just call it Reality as it is
so it doesn&rsquo;t have to sound quite so holy.

What a wonderful thing too, by virtue of your capacity to acknowledge
guiltlessness, cause Reality in all of its perfection to become visible
to you and to your brothers, and your brothers to extend the same thing
to their brothers and sisters, on and on and on. That&rsquo;s why
you&rsquo;re blessed. That&rsquo;s why you would be blessed.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Blessed are you who teach with me. Our power comes not of us, but of our
Father.
</div>

How? How did we get it of our Father? Well, like I said, because He gave
you the capacity to see His Creation as He sees
it&mdash;distortion-free.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Our power &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; to teach together &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; comes not of us but of our Father. In guiltlessness we know
Him&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you see? But if we&rsquo;re guilty, we don&rsquo;t know Him.
And we squabble among each other to try to survive the awfulness of
being guilty. But in our guiltlessness, we know ourselves and we know
our Father and we know who we Are together&mdash;brothers and
sisters&mdash;family.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In guiltlessness we know Him, as He knows us guiltless. I stand within
the circle, calling you to peace. Teach peace with me, and stand with me
on holy ground.
</div>

And I&rsquo;ll add &hellip; you holy Son of God&mdash;you holy man, you
holy woman &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Teach peace with me, and stand with me on holy ground. Remember for
everyone your Father&rsquo;s power that He &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your Father &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; has given him.
</div>

&hellip; His Sons and Daughters.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Remember for everyone your Father&rsquo;s power that He has given him.
</div>

You see &hellip; you&rsquo;re remembering for him by taking your brother
who has all kinds of self-doubts and all kinds of self-criticisms and
all kinds of illness as a result of his self-depreciating attitude about
himself and perspective. Take this brother, who is terribly confused,
and lift him up to the Father acknowledging his innocence, acknowledging
what is true of him in spite of what he believes. And embrace your
brother and behave with your brother in the context of what you know to
be the truth with him so that he can be inspired to join with you and
abandon his private devotion to his inner fear. And in that joining,
remember brotherhood, break the isolation and pave the way for
inspiration to replace his devotion to his fear.

So when you lift your brother up when he&rsquo;s ignorant of his
divinity, you are remembering for him his Father&rsquo;s power that his
Father has given him.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Remember for everyone your Father&rsquo;s power that He &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your Father &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; has given him. Believe not that you cannot teach His &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Father&rsquo;s &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; perfect peace. Stand not outside, but join with me within.
</div>

Stand not outside. Outside what? Outside the relationship, outside the
family. Don&rsquo;t stand in the middle of the orphanage. That&rsquo;s
outside relationships, that&rsquo;s outside the actuality of the
Brotherhood of man whose Father is God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Stand not outside, but join with me within.
</div>

&hellip; within the wholeness&mdash;the unity of our Brotherhood.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Fail not the only purpose to which my teaching calls you.
</div>

And what is my teaching? My teaching is: You are the holy Son of God,
you are a holy man, you are a holy woman. And it is your function to
look at everything and see it&rsquo;s guiltlessness, to see its
indivisibility which, because it is indivisible, cannot be polarized,
cannot be chaotic, can have no elements of dissonance or destruction,
and which glows with the illumination of the Love which the Father
brought forth in its creation. That&rsquo;s what my teaching calls you
to. And when you do this with your brother, it&rsquo;s what your
teaching calls him to.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Restore to God His Son as He &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; God &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; created him by teaching him his innocence.
</div>

There we are again, talking about being an incredible friend.

You know, I&rsquo;m really not using that as a &ldquo;catch
phrase.&rdquo; But you&rsquo;ve got to understand I am using it because
it&rsquo;s such a simple term. It&rsquo;s very understandable. You
understand the meaning of the words, &ldquo;incredible friend.&rdquo;
That&rsquo;s all the more complicated all of this that we&rsquo;ve been
talking about is. We&rsquo;re not talking about being some incredible
fantastic, strange, weird, perhaps frightening, spiritual&mdash;not
apparition&mdash;but spiritual presence that you&rsquo;re not sure you
would want to be and you&rsquo;re not sure anybody else would want to
experience.

Be an incredible friend and &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Restore to God His Son &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; hold up to God His Son &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; as He &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; God &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; created him by &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; teaching him &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your Father&rsquo;s Son &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; his innocence.
</div>

Perform the one function God gave you, which was the capacity to
acknowledge guiltlessness. You see, the word &ldquo;guilt&rdquo; in the
word &ldquo;guiltlessness&rdquo; loses its sting a little bit, because
guiltlessness really means utterly pure presence of conscious life that
is the Presence of God embodied right there where every one of your
brothers is, and where you are. Now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The crucifixion has no part in the Atonement. Only the resurrection
became my part in it. That is the symbol of the release from guilt by
guiltlessness. Whom you perceive as guilty you would crucify. Yet you
RESTORE [gentleness] guiltlessness to whomever you see as guiltless.
Crucifixion is ALWAYS the ego&rsquo;s aim.
</div>

Crucifixion is always the bottom line of life in second gear, of life in
the orphanage, because survival is your number one goal. No matter what
you have to do you will survive, even if you have to kill, even if you
have to maim, even if you have to destroy your fellowman if he
obnoxiously gets in the way.

Whether you ultimately crucify your brother, you will hold him in
contempt, you will judge him poorly and you will hold him to the
judgment you have applied to him and you will extract from him penalties
until something incredible happens and you find a new
activity&mdash;something new to engage in with your brother&mdash;that
something being, to hold your brother up to God and acknowledge his
guiltlessness.

Now, those of you who have studied the Course for a long time know that
the word &ldquo;forgiveness&rdquo; is a very big word. If you&rsquo;ll
notice, I don&rsquo;t use the word &ldquo;forgiveness&rdquo; very much,
the reason being, that forgiveness can become a process that you can
become stuck in. If you don&rsquo;t even bother to use the word
&ldquo;forgiveness&rdquo; or to have the word &ldquo;forgiveness&rdquo;
in your vocabulary, it doesn&rsquo;t keep you in any way from having the
thought or the idea to look at your brother and see the good that is
there, or to have the desire to look at your brother and want to see the
underlying fundamental truth of his being that has to be there, because
the Father put it there by Being that which is embodied where your
friend is. It is God Who is embodied where you are, where your friend
is, where everything is.

Now, the simple fact is, that if you&rsquo;re willing to look at
anything and see the more of what God is Being right there than what
you&rsquo;re seeing right now, you are engaged in an act of forgiveness.

But I&rsquo;m going to tell you something: Forgiveness is an overused
word and it does not convey fully the simple meaning of your having a
desire to see the best in your brother. Forgiveness really isn&rsquo;t
something you give to a brother or do for a brother. Forgiveness is
really an inner act on your part of abandoning blaming your brother, of
abandoning judging your brother and holding him to your poor judgment.

So I talk more about what constitutes the absence of judgment&mdash;the
willingness to look at your brother or a flower or an object with a
desire to see God there. You see, now you don&rsquo;t have to get into,
&ldquo;Well, does he deserve to be forgiven? Does the flower deserve to
be forgiven?&rdquo; or, &ldquo;Why did I hold that flower in judgment
and thereby not see it completely for what it truly is?&rdquo; You see,
it all becomes irrelevant and you&rsquo;re down to the act of engaging
in desiring to see the more of God there. You&rsquo;re hooked on the
transformation rather than the process of letting something go. You see?
You have the forward look instead of the backward look.

So, from second gear in the orphanage&mdash;in the orphan
mindset&mdash;life is survival. It is therefore self-protection at all
costs. You are number one. Everything had better leave you alone and not
interfere with your existence. No sense of family there, just sense of
&ldquo;me and enemies,&rdquo; and &ldquo;me learning how to defend
myself against my enemies,&rdquo; and &ldquo;me, if I am really, really,
really a smart organism, finding a way to finesse my enemies into not
behaving in such an awful way toward me, finessing them into being
civilized.&rdquo; You see?

But still, you&rsquo;re in an act of self-defense. The need that&rsquo;s
being satisfied is self-protection. Thus, everything you engage in costs
everyone else something&mdash;that is, whether it&rsquo;s minimal or
maximal crucifixion. But crucifixion is not part of the Atonement.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The crucifixion has no part in the Atonement.
</div>

What&rsquo;s going on in second gear has nothing to do with shifting to
first gear.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Only the resurrection became my part in it.
</div>

Let that sink in. When it sinks in, you will realize that there simply
is no further use for crucifixion in any form. It is not valuable for
you to practice it on yourself or on anyone else. It has no part in the
Atonement.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Only the resurrection became my part in it.
</div>

Now, in a way, Atonement has had a little bit of crucifixion attached to
it and the way in which it was attached to it was by providing you with
an uncomfortable task of &ldquo;forgiving your brother.&rdquo; I mean,
agreed isn&rsquo;t it, that that&rsquo;s not a very pleasant task
considering what your brother&rsquo;s really like. And so you have a
little bit of a crucifixion here, while you muster up the strength and
the willingness and somehow the capacity to forgive &ldquo;the
bastard.&rdquo; That&rsquo;s a little bit of crucifixion.

But if you&rsquo;re willing to look at your brother and say,
&ldquo;Father, help me look into my brothers&rsquo; or my sisters&rsquo;
eyes and see You. Help me look into my brothers&rsquo; eyes and remember
You.&rdquo; What are you doing? You&rsquo;re engaging in an action or
activity of the Atonement because you are cutting to the chase and
engaging in the act of inclusion, of caring and of acknowledging that
not only you but your brother have a common Father. God now has come
back into the picture. Father has come back. Mother has come back.
Orphans and orphanages have become meaningless. Behaving as though
orphans and orphanages are meaningful stops! You see?

Resurrection is part of the Atonement. And Resurrection is what happens
when you don&rsquo;t get entangled in processes but you go for the
gusto, and you say, no matter who it is you&rsquo;re looking at, no
matter what it is you&rsquo;re looking at, whether if it&rsquo;s an ant,
or a flower, or a tree, or whatever. And you say, &ldquo;I want to see
what&rsquo;s really there. I want to see the guiltlessness of what
I&rsquo;m looking at, which means that I want to look at what God is
Being there and see it the way God is seeing it. And I no longer opt for
the right to have my own private personal way of perceiving it.&rdquo;
You see? That&rsquo;s Resurrection.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Crucifixion is ALWAYS the ego&rsquo;s aim. It sees AS GUILTY, and by its
condemnation it would kill. The Holy Spirit sees only guiltlessness, and
in His gentleness He would release from fear, and re-establish the reign
of love. The power of love is in His gentleness, which is of God and
therefore cannot crucify nor suffer crucifixion.
</div>

Holy man and holy woman, everyone of you who&rsquo;s hearing me right
now, listen to this &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit sees only guiltlessness, and in His gentleness He would
release from fear, and re-establish the reign of love.
</div>

Well, holy man and holy woman, the Holy Spirit that does this is nothing
more than your right Mind. It&rsquo;s your function that we&rsquo;re
talking about here. It is your function divinely placed and divinely
established that sees only guiltlessness. And in your gentleness you
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; would release from fear, and re-establish the reign of love.
</div>

That&rsquo;s your function, right here today, now.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The power of love is in His gentleness&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; is in your gentleness &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; which is of God and therefore cannot crucify nor suffer
crucifixion. The temple you restore &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; by becoming a teacher of innocence, by joining with me.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The temple you restore becomes YOUR altar&hellip;
</div>

Why? Because it is your holiness that has resided in the very center of
your being while you&rsquo;ve dallied with being an ego.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The temple you restore becomes YOUR altar, for it was re-built through
you. And everything you give to God IS yours.
</div>

Not because it was given back to you, but because it was never taken
away. And when you are letting yourself be identified properly, by
neglecting to interpose some private personal definition you have
applied to yourself, then you discover that &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; everything you give to God is yours.
</div>

&hellip; and always was. The transformation is not something that turns
you from an illusion into something real. It&rsquo;s a transformation in
which the belief that you could be something illusory dissolves and
leaves the presence of what you have always been, starkly and
wonderfully and impressively present.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; everything you give to God IS yours. Thus He creates, and thus
must YOU restore.
</div>

At this point your task is to restore what you&rsquo;ve been ignoring
and which you have therefore believed has been absent, but it will be
restored by becoming visible, as the visibility and tangibility of you
that has never been altered from what God established it as, no matter
what mental imaginative gyrations you have gone through to create a
biased perception of it.

Now, this is simply the truth here. It isn&rsquo;t something you can
fiddle around with. It just is the truth, like two plus two is four.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Each one you see you place within the holy circle of Atonement or leave
outside&hellip;
</div>

Well, yes. It&rsquo;s one or the other, it&rsquo;s automatic.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Each one you see you place within the holy circle of Atonement or leave
outside, judging him fit for crucifixion or for redemption.
</div>

This happens every day in every contact you have with anyone. And in
fact, with the same person, your judgment might change every fifteen
minutes, depending upon what that brother is doing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you bring him INTO the circle of purity, you will rest there with
him. If you leave him WITHOUT, you join him there. Judge not except in
quietness which is not of you.
</div>

What is the quietness that&rsquo;s not of you? It&rsquo;s the quietness
that is not of the orphan you think you are at the moment. It&rsquo;s
the quietness that is of the divine you, the Holy Spirit that you have
disowned so that you could play around at being an ego, until you
finally get tired of playing around and let the divine one that you Are,
fully into the picture.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Judge not except in quietness which is not of you. Refuse to accept
anyone as WITHOUT the blessing of Atonement, and bring him INTO it by
blessing him.
</div>

&ldquo;Oh God, do I really have to do that? And am I going to have to do
it all the time? Um-m, I have to do this holy work? Can&rsquo;t I just
sit down and can&rsquo;t I occasionally watch a TV program or do
something irrelevant?&rdquo; Well, yeah, you can watch TV and engage in
activities. Nobody said you couldn&rsquo;t. But also, nobody asked you
to do anything other than be an incredible friend. What&rsquo;s the big
deal? You imagine that you&rsquo;re being asked to do something terribly
unnatural. You&rsquo;re being asked to join me in being an incredible
friend.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Refuse to accept anyone as WITHOUT the blessing of Atonement, and bring
him INTO it by blessing him.
</div>

How do you bless your brother? You bless your brother by holding him
present in your awareness and turning to God and say, &ldquo;Father,
here is my brother, here is my sister&mdash;Your son, Your daughter. I
know that because he or she is Your son or daughter, all that You are
has found embodiment in him or her. And that is what I choose to honor,
rather than the picture my brother or sister is presenting to me and
rather than my best judgments, my best misperceptions of him or her. I
acknowledge to You the worth and the meaning that is embodied in my
brother and sister, because the worth and meaning embodied in her and
embodied in him is You.&rdquo; That&rsquo;s how you bless him.

You hold your brother in such respect that you&rsquo;re not engaging in
any form of judgment or condemnation. And in the absence of it, your
brother&rsquo;s healing and your healing can occur.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Holiness must be shared, for therein &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in the sharing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; lies everything that makes it holy.
</div>

What makes anything unholy is your insistence upon being an independent
agent existing on your own, creating your own reality and somehow
arriving at a point where you become a real boy or a real girl, all
alone.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Come gladly to the holy circle, and look out in peace on all who think
they are outside. Cast no-one out, for this &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning, being included in the holy circle &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is what he seeks along with you. Come, let us join him in the
holy place of peace, which is for all of us, united as one within the
Cause of peace.

Come, let us join him in the holy place of peace&hellip;
</div>

In the place of incredible friendship. In the place of incredible
brotherhood. In the simple place of incredible friendship.

Now I know that at times we can get going on the ego and the ego&rsquo;s
dynamics and blah, blah, blah. And it can sometimes be a little bit
exhilarating to have the ego&rsquo;s characteristics illuminated so they
can be seen for their awfulness. But there&rsquo;s a sweetness as you
can hear tonight, in the experience that occurs when illusions are
brought to truth. And the sweetness doesn&rsquo;t involve all the little
comeuppances that the ego probably will have to go through as it is
abandoned.

And I want you all to understand that the ultimate is sweet, that
Atonement is gentle, that abandoning your personality and becoming a
holy man is something very grounded, very wonderful, very simple and
obviously meaningful&mdash;not strange, not weird&mdash;I will say
incredible beyond your expectations. But it will never be frightening.

And as we go into this next week, I want you to approach it looking for
gentle transformation, gentle fulfillments that will be quite amazing
but also very down-to-earth, but very unlike your Earth experience when
you have approached everything as an independent agent&mdash;as a
personality.

You must still practice your capacity to acknowledge guiltlessness
everywhere. The sweetness of what we&rsquo;ve discussed tonight, the
gentleness of the truth of it doesn&rsquo;t mean that it&rsquo;s okay to
just sort of sit back and go unconscious, get fuzzy. No. Be glad to
actively engage in the one capacity that God has given you, that
capacity being, to be able to acknowledge guiltlessness in everyone and
everything, which means your capacity to see everyone and everything
exactly as God is seeing it, exactly as God is Meaning it in His
embodiment of it at this very moment, with no aspect of the awareness of
it in it&rsquo;s totality missing you, with no aspect of it going on
outside your awareness.

Continue to insist upon holding your brother up with a devotion to
experiencing his divinity, because that&rsquo;s how your brother is
healed, that is how you are healed, that is how the Atonement occurs.

I love you all. I love you Dennis, and everyone who has joined us on the
internet. And I look forward to being with you next week in a new way.

[^1]: T14.1 Guilt and Guiltlessness

