---
title: Jun 8, 2008
ref: "T14.2 Out of the Darkness"
alink: "/acim/text/14/chap1402/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

I have invited you to join me in acknowledging the guiltlessness, not
only of each other, but of everything you see.

Another way of describing the guiltlessness of everything is to speak of
the holiness of everything. The fact that there isn&rsquo;t a single
element of error&mdash;there isn&rsquo;t the slightest
blemish&mdash;there isn&rsquo;t the most minimal conflict present in it,
it is flawless perfection brought forth with perfect love. The
&ldquo;it&rdquo; being each of you, the &ldquo;it&rdquo; being every
flower, the &ldquo;it&rdquo; being every ant, the &ldquo;it&rdquo; being
any aspect of Creation no matter how you&rsquo;re seeing those at this
moment. Some of them, like fire ants, you don&rsquo;t like, you&rsquo;re
afraid of &hellip; or carpenter ants.

The point is, that I have invited you to join me in the specific task of
doing the one thing you have not ever done before, and that is: To
abandon the concepts you have formulated about each other and about
everything, and instead to be willing to be present with each other and
everything with an innocent mind&mdash;a mind absent of thinking, a mind
absent of logical processes that you go through to arrive at an
intellectual definition of everything, and in the process, never connect
with that thing itself.

I&rsquo;m inviting you to embrace everything with the specific intent to
appreciate it. Literally, to be willing to lift it up as though unto
Heaven to present to your Father, to present to That which is the cause
of all that is and acknowledge it&rsquo;s value to That which made
it&mdash;and as I&rsquo;ve said before so many times&mdash;in so doing,
reaffirming your brotherhood with the one you&rsquo;re holding up and
your Sonship with That to which you&rsquo;re holding your brother up:
Your common Father, so that the isolation of self-inflicted orphanhood
can be abandoned in the conscious awareness of existing Family.

Now, this act that I&rsquo;m inviting you to join me in is the way we
move &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*Out of the Darkness*[^1]

The journey that we undertake together is the exchange of dark for
light, of ignorance for understanding.
</div>

The abandoning of the definitions you&rsquo;ve made up which are very
opaque and very, well &hellip; mean-spirited, because of course, in the
process of making them up, you have seen yourself as vulnerable and
needing to defend yourself against the state of vulnerability
that&rsquo;s called &ldquo;existence.&rdquo; And so the definition of
your brother or your sister or of your world has been one which defines
it as that of which you must be careful, that which you cannot dare to
trust! This is mean-spirited. This is not love. This is not embrace.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The journey that we undertake together is the exchange of dark for
light, of ignorance for understanding. Nothing you understand is
fearful. It is only in darkness and in ignorance that you perceive the
frightening, and you shrink away from it to further darkness.
</div>

Now, that&rsquo;s a description of what happens when you are not joining
me in acknowledging the guiltlessness, the holiness of your brothers and
sisters and of everything.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is only in darkness and in ignorance that you perceive the
frightening, and you shrink away from it to further darkness. And yet it
is only the hidden that can terrify, not for what it IS, but for its
hiddenness.
</div>

Sometimes hiddenness is called mysteriousness. And that which is
mysteriousness is scary. You tantalize yourself with mystery. You go and
watch movies every week full of mystery. And you tantalize yourself with
the fear of the unknown. You actually enjoy it. And the fact is, that
you actually enjoy in your communications with each other, to use
thinking as a means of making the clear mysterious. If you were utterly
clear, your conversation would be finished very quickly. There would be
nothing present to hold you together in tension. There would be nothing
to hold you together in a state of wondering, you see. &ldquo;Oh-h, I
wonder &hellip; I wonder what would happen if this &hellip; I wonder
what would happen if that &hellip;&rdquo; And this is thinking, and you
use it to create a nebulous sort of environment in which to be
tantalized with the mystery.

Now, in most cases, in your human relationships with each other, you use
your thinking to disturb clear communication because it&rsquo;s helpful
to keep each other off-guard a little bit&mdash;off balance. It helps
you be in control a little bit better, especially if you&rsquo;re the
one creating the out-of-balance condition. And this is the way you
manipulate each other to cause each other to behave in a way that keeps
you safe you think.

But again, this habit, this style of relating to each other, keeps you
all from connecting with each other. It keeps you at a distance. It
keeps you hidden from each other and in that act of hiding,
there&rsquo;s no opportunity for acknowledging the guiltlessness of your
brother and acknowledging his guiltlessness, his holiness, to your
mutual Father and abandoning the isolation, reestablishing the conscious
experience of Family and of mutual love, and providing the circumstance
under which you can wake up.

I don&rsquo;t want to cause you to be overly serious here, but I do want
you to be unafraid to look at the uses you put thinking to in order to
control your circumstances, and that the way you usually do it is not
imbued with love but rather with self-protection and the exercise of
control. This is the way you keep a state of mystery active throughout
your day. It&rsquo;s the way you keep fear as an uneasy undercurrent
present. It&rsquo;s the way you keep clarity obscure. It&rsquo;s the way
you keep truth obscure. And the obscure is frightening because you do
not understand its meaning. If you did, it would be clear and you would
be no longer in the dark.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Nothing has HIDDEN value, for what is hidden cannot be shared, and so
its value is unknown.
</div>

But you say, &ldquo;Well you know, you&rsquo;re talking about me letting
a new me come forth. You&rsquo;re talking about me abandoning the orphan
mind-set and reuniting as a Son and a brother and part of a divine
Family. You&rsquo;re asking me to embrace something that I&rsquo;ve been
keeping out of sight. You&rsquo;re asking me to embrace something that I
have kept hidden about myself, my brother, my world. And you know what?
As long as I&rsquo;ve been keeping it hidden, I&rsquo;ve been able to
create a sense of value here where I am and fool everyone into thinking
that I have value all by myself. It&rsquo;s been important for me to be
here on my own and not just be the Son of my Father, who has inherited
all that my Father is and has, and therefore, have no means of creating
my own inheritance and birthright and wealth, or worth.&rdquo;

But &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Nothing has HIDDEN value, for what is hidden cannot be shared, and so
its value is unknown. The hidden is KEPT APART, but value always lies in
joint appreciation. What is concealed cannot be loved, and so it MUST be
feared.
</div>

If it&rsquo;s concealed, it&rsquo;s mysterious. If it&rsquo;s
mysterious, its unsettling. If its unsettling, through the use of your
imagination, you will make it fearful.

What we&rsquo;ve just discussed is a description of existence from
second gear. It&rsquo;s a description of existence when you think
you&rsquo;re an orphan living in an orphanage doing everything you can
to create worth in you that isn&rsquo;t naturally yours, and managing
somehow to convince yourself and everyone else of this worth so that you
will be respected and can somehow become, like Pinocchio&mdash;a real
boy.

Now, what I&rsquo;m inviting you to join me in, in lifting your brother
up or your sister up in your awareness, by choosing to cut through and
past whatever presentation your brother&rsquo;s making to you, or
whatever concepts you have devised or imagined about your brother, and
you choose instead to see the Presence of God there, and if you
don&rsquo;t see it, you ask for your Father to help reveal to you your
brother&rsquo;s innate value and worth&mdash;and I&rsquo;m going to say,
lovability. Because in doing this, this is the way you shift from second
gear to first gear, which is the means by which you wake up out of your
confusion&mdash;out of your insanity&mdash;and come back into your right
Mind.

Now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The quiet light in which the Holy Spirit dwells &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and of course, the Holy Spirit is nothing more than your right
Mind, your undisturbed mind &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The quiet light in which the Holy Spirit dwells within you is &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what? &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is merely perfect openness&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you get the feel? &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; perfect openness &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; perfect undefendedness &hellip; perfect capacity for you to be
fully present, fully present without any shield being put up between you
and your brother or your world.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The quiet light in which the Holy Spirit dwells within you is merely
perfect openness, in which nothing is hidden, and therefore nothing is
fearful. Attack will ALWAYS yield to love if it is BROUGHT to love, not
hidden FROM it.
</div>

Well, when you are willing to join with me and look at your brother with
a desire to see the truth about him, we&rsquo;ll say, God&rsquo;s truth
about him, the one the Father is Being/Creating at this very instant
while you&rsquo;re looking at your brother, your desire to see the truth
there when you were inclined to think poorly of your brother and to
treat him poorly, is your bringing your attack to love. You are shifting
from your negative assessment and treatment of your brother to a desire
in you to see the truth about your brother, and that is love. That is
the act of love that removes the shield between you&mdash;the defense
between you&mdash;and embraces wholly. And &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Attack will ALWAYS yield to love if it is BROUGHT to love, not hidden
FROM it.
</div>

Always!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is no darkness that the light of love will not dispel, unless it
is concealed from love&rsquo;s beneficence.
</div>

You need to know the power of your conscious act of desiring to have a
true assessment of your brother, an assessment of your brother as seen
through your Father&rsquo;s eyes or through the eyes of anyone who is
Awake in which there is no conflict and no distortion.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What is kept APART from love cannot share its healing power because it
has been separated off and kept in darkness. The sentinels of darkness
watch over it carefully&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; watch over what? What is kept APART from love.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The sentinels of darkness watch over it carefully, and you who made
these guardians of illusion out of nothing are now afraid of them.
</div>

You, who have decided to be independently on your own, and think that
you are creating your own lives and that are creating reality yourself
and succeeding at it &hellip; Oh-h-h&hellip; you are creating an
illusory experience which cannot be had without the experience of fear.
You cannot deny what you Are and be comfortable. You cannot try to be
something that you aren&rsquo;t and be comfortable! And yet, you
can&rsquo;t become what you aren&rsquo;t, and you can&rsquo;t succeed at
your attempt to be the Creator. And so, although you&rsquo;re
uncomfortable, you&rsquo;re uncomfortable because you can&rsquo;t do the
impossible and you&rsquo;re still trying. You&rsquo;re suffering because
you can&rsquo;t do something wrong but you&rsquo;re still trying. Do you
see?

But oh no. You all say, &ldquo; Oh no, it&rsquo;s an evil world. Oh,
it&rsquo;s not me, it&rsquo;s an evil world. Don&rsquo;t you see?
Everything is going to hell in a hand-basket&mdash;just look around you!
How on earth could anybody be in their peace under these
circumstances?&rdquo; And yet, the only problem is, that you are trying
to do the impossible and you&rsquo;re doing it even though it&rsquo;s
impossible to do the impossible, and in that attempt, you are
uncomfortable and it&rsquo;s at your own hand or you might say, at your
own mind that you are creating the discomfort.

All that we&rsquo;re ever talking about here is your discovering how
you&rsquo;re doing that and then abandoning doing that. And the most
effective and simple way to do that is to extend caring, extend your
attention to your brothers and sisters and your world, with the intent
to gift it with your acknowledgement of its value and to insist on that
until you&rsquo;ve succeeded.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Would you CONTINUE to give imagined power to these strange ideas of
safety?
</div>

You know, like &hellip;&ldquo;I&rsquo;ve got to protect myself. You
can&rsquo;t trust anybody.&rdquo; Well, you ignore the fact that the
vantage point from which you&rsquo;re looking is shifty ground, and
you&rsquo;re not trustworthy either to anyone else, because you&rsquo;re
not coming from a grounded stable place of clarity within you&mdash;but
of course, it&rsquo;s everyone else. Well, this is a strange idea of
safety.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Would you CONTINUE to give imagined power to these strange ideas of
safety? They are neither safe nor unsafe. They do not protect; neither
do they attack.
</div>

And I&rsquo;m going to add: They&rsquo;re pure imagination. They are
thinking. I was going to say, at its worst, it&rsquo;s really thinking
at its best. Thinking is always at its worst even at its best, because
it&rsquo;s the shield you establish between yourself and your brother.
It&rsquo;s that which you use to keep things apart and to keep yourself
apart from things.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
They &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the strange ideas of safety &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; do nothing at all, BEING nothing at all. As guardians of
darkness and of ignorance, look to them only for fear, for what they
keep obscure IS fearful.
</div>

Let&rsquo;s stop for a moment. Why are you using these sentinels of
fear? You&rsquo;re using them, actually, to keep yourself from having to
recognize that you have a Father, and that you have a Birthright, and
that you don&rsquo;t have to earn it or deserve it. It is the essence
and the condition of your very existence&mdash;your existing. You
don&rsquo;t want to find that out because then you won&rsquo;t be able
to strive for the goal of making something out of yourself and you
won&rsquo;t get that ego &ldquo;hit.&rdquo; And you know that you will
also have to fit in. And at this stage in your ego&rsquo;s development,
the idea of fitting in and of not being able to stand out is not
desirable. It&rsquo;s boring, it&rsquo;s meaningless, it&rsquo;s
useless, it&rsquo;s unfulfilling and can&rsquo;t possibly mean anything
to one who is credible, respectable, real. Anyone who is credible,
respectable and real will go out and make his &ldquo;mark&rdquo; in
life. Blending will be engaged in if it happens to be fulfilling the
goal you have. But if it doesn&rsquo;t, it&rsquo;s unnecessary.

So, all of these thinking processes that you&rsquo;re using are being
used to avoid something. They&rsquo;re actually being used to avoid the
clarity of being Awake&mdash;the sanity of your right Mind. Because at
the moment, in your insanity, your right Mind seems utterly useless,
meaningless, impractical, and something to be avoided at all cost.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As guardians of darkness and of ignorance, look to them only for fear,
for what they keep obscure IS fearful. But let them go, and what was
fearful will be so no longer.
</div>

To be Awake will no longer seem to be fearful or so blissful as to be
utterly boring because you&rsquo;re just going to sit on a pink cloud
strumming a harp for eternity. That&rsquo;s what being sane means when
you&rsquo;re looking at it from the aspect of the ego that you are
currently engaged in. And nobody wants that! So [chuckles] anyone wise
is going to do a hell-of-a-lot more thinking to avoid that. But &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Without protection of obscurity ONLY the light of love remains, for only
this HAS meaning and CAN live in light. Everything else must disappear.
</div>

Now why are we talking about this? Last week we were talking about
things that were so beautiful. And we still are. We&rsquo;re just
pointing out what it is that you will be abandoning as you join me in
the circle of Love in which you are conscientiously engaging in
acknowledging truth and wanting to experience truth more than anything
else in the world. And things that were meaningful to you in the
orphanage, will become meaningless to you because you&rsquo;re not
having to struggle for your peace and you&rsquo;re not having to
struggle for your wholeness, you&rsquo;re not having to strive to make
something out of yourself because you&rsquo;re already the ultimate.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Without protection of obscurity ONLY the light of love remains, for only
this HAS meaning and CAN live in light. Everything else must disappear.

Death yields to life simply because destruction is not TRUE.
</div>

Another reason we&rsquo;re talking about this is that crucifixion is not
part of my teaching, but Resurrection is. Crucifixion is the ego&rsquo;s
teaching. Killing, undercutting, undermining your brother for your
safety, for your progress, pure ego bullshit.

I want to point out something: You&rsquo;re all well aware that except
for a handful of Us everyone has died. Very few have either not died or
resurrected.

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Death yields to life simply because destruction is not TRUE.
</div>

Well, where is destruction not true? Well, it&rsquo;s not true anywhere.
But it specifically is not true in first gear&mdash;in your right Mind.
It is not present in your sane Self.

If you are trying &ldquo;with all get out&rdquo; to be something on your
own, in second gear, death still can&rsquo;t happen as a fact, but it
seems to. We need to break that habit. It&rsquo;s time for that road to
be less traveled. It&rsquo;s time for that road to be turned into a
dead-end, so no-one cares to go down it again for any imaginative
reason.

So, joining with me and in joining with your brother, with the conscious
intent of acknowledging the truth about him, with the conscious intent
to experience the true truth about him, as opposed to your best judgment
of him, is the bottom line means by which you will not die. It is the
means by which the apparent cycle of birth and death will cease and will
be replaced with the unchangeable experience of Eternal Life&mdash;the
uninterrupted experience of Eternal Life.

So, as we go through the Course, we&rsquo;re not just enjoying ideas
which, when they&rsquo;re put together in certain ways, make us feel
more whole and make life a little bit easier to bear, we&rsquo;re
actually talking about that which is going to change the experience of
life so that the experience of death no longer presents itself.

As you wake up, as you become clearer and clearer about your divinity
and the divinity of your brothers and sisters, and the essential value
and awesomeness about every aspect of creation, you can&rsquo;t possibly
have the experience of being happy while you still get sick and while
you still die. This isn&rsquo;t about making the human condition easier
or more pleasant until you die. It&rsquo;s about getting off the
merry-go-round completely, of life and death. I&rsquo;m speaking truly.
I&rsquo;m speaking practically. I&rsquo;m speaking here and now today,
where hospitals will go out of business because nobody needs their
services.

Is that clear? Is it clear to you that I&rsquo;m not talking
&ldquo;airy-fairy-pie-in-the-sky&rdquo; spiritual principles.
We&rsquo;re talking about waking up. We&rsquo;re talking about letting
in a new experience that is already present to be experienced, which you
are not experiencing because you are giving preference to your thinking
and all of the ramifications of your thinking that you can imagine.

But you&rsquo;ve got to let yourself out of the box. You&rsquo;ve got to
let your mind open up to that which you don&rsquo;t know at the moment,
so that what is there to be known can register with you, and so that the
mystery of life&mdash;that wonderful mystery of life&mdash;can disappear
in the conscious experience of what life actually is, without any of it
being tantalizingly obscure to you, but making life interesting because
you can discover it. You see.

Here&rsquo;s what happens when you join me in acknowledging the
guiltlessness of your brothers:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The light of guiltlessness shines guilt away because, when they are
brought TOGETHER&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; guilt and guiltlessness &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the truth of one MUST make the falsity of its opposite
perfectly clear.
</div>

You see, confusion ceases immediately. What&rsquo;s real is real and
what isn&rsquo;t real isn&rsquo;t real. No confusion anymore. Utter
clarity. No mystery, &ldquo;Well, you know, if this was that way then
maybe that would be real.&rdquo; No confusion anymore. No speculation
about that which will not lead to a solid and real conclusion.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Keep not guilt and guiltlessness apart, for your belief that you can
have them BOTH is meaningless. All you have done by keeping them apart
is lose their meaning by confusing them with each other. And so you do
not realize that only one means anything, and the other is wholly
without sense of ANY kind.
</div>

That&rsquo;s the wonder of black and white: Something is something and
nothing is nothing. And when you know that something is something and
nothing is nothing and there is no confusion, it&rsquo;s like the light
is on, &ldquo;Ah-ha, I understand completely. I am not confused in
anyway.&rdquo; And there&rsquo;s peace.

Now you have interpreted the separation, &ldquo;But, Father, I&rsquo;d
rather do it my way. I want a divorce, Father.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have interpreted the separation as a means which you have made for
breaking your communication with your Father.
</div>

See, that&rsquo;s thinking &hellip; that&rsquo;s done in second gear
&hellip; that&rsquo;s done from the sidecar on the motorcycle that has
no means of providing itself any direction. It&rsquo;s what happens in
the orphanage. But that&rsquo;s the unreal seeming to be real. But
here&rsquo;s the real:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit re-interprets it as a means of re-establishing what has
not been broken but HAS been made obscure.
</div>

The Holy Spirit&rsquo;s intent and capacity is to show you that when you
thought you were doing something and creating a separation, you were
doing nothing. And your relationship with your Father and your brothers
and sisters is still inviolably intact. And you&rsquo;re still in your
holy place. What you thought you were doing you didn&rsquo;t do,
therefore, there&rsquo;s nothing you&rsquo;re guilty of. But if you keep
trying to do what you can&rsquo;t do, you will be uncomfortable and you
will feel guilty, but it&rsquo;s only because you&rsquo;re trying to do
what you can&rsquo;t do&mdash;you&rsquo;re continuing to try to do what
you can&rsquo;t do.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
All things you made have use to Him&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; for His most holy purpose. He KNOWS you are not separate from
God, but He perceives much in your mind that lets you THINK you are.
</div>

It doesn&rsquo;t say He put it there, but He sees what&rsquo;s going on.
The Holy Spirit&mdash;that which is nothing more than your right
Mind&mdash;sees what you, in your orphan mentality, think you&rsquo;re
doing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
All this, and nothing else, would He separate from you.
</div>

He would just separate from you what you&rsquo;re not doing. And what He
would separate from you is the consequences you think you have to pay
for having done something that you never actually did.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The power of decision, which you made IN PLACE of the power of
creation&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; I&rsquo;m going to stop right there. Wow, I bet all of you
thought that the power of decision was a God given capacity, a most
important capacity&mdash;you have the power of decision. Wow, and of
course, your ego loves that. But what does it say?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The power of decision, which you made IN PLACE of the power of creation,
He would teach you how to use on your BEHALF.
</div>

The Holy Spirit would teach you how to use this power of decision that
you have created, on your behalf. It&rsquo;s like turning a problem to
your advantage, and He will help you use the power of decision to
retrace your steps and undo all the decisions you made that moved you
away from your conscious oneness with the Father. You see?

It isn&rsquo;t that the Holy Spirit will take the power of decision and
turn it into something that you will forever be able to use, because it
really wasn&rsquo;t a bad idea when you first thought it up, you just
have been using it for the wrong thing. And now the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s
going to teach you how to use it for the right thing. No, the Holy
Spirit is going to show you how to use something you already have an
affinity for using, so it&rsquo;s easy for you to accept the guidance
that the Holy Spirit gives you to undo the use of the power of decision
so that you might come back into your right Mind, where your mind is not
different from God&rsquo;s Mind. And in experiencing the Movement of the
Mind of God, that is what constitutes your Mind, you can become
co-creates with God of creation. Not a creator in your own right, but
co-creators by virtue of being present with the Father, fully, as the
process of Creation occurs.

So the Holy Spirit helps you use the power of decision to arrive at a
point where you abandon the power of decision. But in the meantime,
you&rsquo;ve used it to undo all of the decisions that have consistently
bound you tighter and tighter in a distorted, confused experience of
being.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You who made it &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the power of decision &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; to crucify yourselves must learn of Him &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit, that which is nothing more than your right
Mind&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; how to apply it to the holy cause of restoration.
</div>

Which ultimately means, and can immediately mean, becoming free of the
prospect of dying, and free of the prospect or the experience of
illness, or injury, or anything else that does not reflect or that is
not the manifestation of a perfect idea formed in a perfect Mind,
meaning God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; sweet little orphans that you are &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; who speak in dark and devious symbols do not understand the
language you have made. It HAS no meaning, for its purpose is not
communication, but rather, the DISRUPTION of communication.
</div>

What would communication be? Communication would be of the discovery of
truth&mdash;a mutual discovery of truth&mdash;a discovery of truth that
occurs in a moment of joining, of involvement, not an isolated
experience. That would be communication.

Well, what might one of those discoveries be? Ah, that you are a holy
Son of God, that, as I said last week, you are a holy man or a holy
woman&mdash;something you really don&rsquo;t want to find out, something
you have avoided and something which you use thinking as a means of
avoiding and then you give expression to the thinking and you call it
communication. But what you&rsquo;re doing is inserting into the
continuum of relationships that you&rsquo;re in, disturbance that keeps
it impossible for the divinity of everyone concerned, or of the Kingdom
of Heaven that all of it&rsquo;s really going on in, from being
discovered, from being experienced.

That&rsquo;s why there is such value in silence. Because in the
conscious practice of not thinking you&rsquo;re able to be more truly
present with everything. And in the absence of the static of your
thinking, everything around you has a better chance of conveying to you
what it really is. And that&rsquo;s communication.

The discovery &hellip; your discovery of what a thing really is because
you let it communicate its meaning to you&mdash;which it is its joy to
do&mdash;that is commun-ication.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If the purpose of language IS communication, how can this tongue
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you know, called orphanese &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; how can this tongue mean anything? Yet even this strange and
twisted effort to communicate through NOT communicating holds enough of
love &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; listen to this &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; holds enough of love to MAKE it meaningful, if its interpreter
is NOT its maker.
</div>

You see, the ego is its maker. But if the Holy Spirit interprets it,
there is something there to interpret, because even though it&rsquo;s
communication used for not communicating, it still holds enough of love
to make it useful to the Holy Spirit. Why? Because in spite of
yourselves, in spite of your insistence on being the most terrific
orphans that ever existed, you never for an instance stopped being the
Son of God. And so there is never anything you&rsquo;re doing no matter
how unconscious you are of what it is in its totality, that is totally
void or devoid of your holiness. And so, there is always something there
for the Holy Spirit&mdash;again, that which is nothing more than your
Sanity, your right Mind&mdash;to use to help you to come back Home.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You who made it are but expressing conflict, from which the Holy Spirit
would release you. Leave what you would communicate to Him. He will
interpret it to you with perfect clarity, for He knows with Whom you ARE
in perfect communication.
</div>

Now, let&rsquo;s be clear about this: If, when you are with a friend,
you are listening before speaking, you are letting your conversation and
the movement of your inner actions, if you&rsquo;re letting that be
guided because you&rsquo;re allowing yourself to fit in with
what&rsquo;s going on, then what you are truly meaning to say, the Holy
Spirit will find ways to have pass through your lips so that real
communication can occur just as it is occurring right now as Paul is
speaking. And the experience will always be transformational.

The words that will come out will not be words addressing the egos of
those who are listening, because the Holy Spirit in you knows the Holy
Spirit in your brothers and sisters and that is too rich&mdash;it
speaks!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You know not what you say, and so you know not what is said to you. Yet
your Interpreter &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; perceives the meaning in your alien language.
</div>

&hellip; of orphanese &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He will not attempt to communicate the meaningless. But He WILL separate
out all that has meaning, dropping off the rest and offering your true
communication to those who would communicate as truly with you. You
speak two languages at once, and this MUST lead to unintelligibility.
</div>

&hellip; obviously &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You speak two languages at once, and this MUST lead to
unintelligibility. Yet if one means nothing and the other everything,
only that one is possible for purposes of communication. The other but
INTERFERES with it.
</div>

Now, again, for perspective: What we&rsquo;re talking about tonight
describes the aspects that come into play when you join with me in the
circle of love, for the purpose of acknowledging your brothers or any
aspect of creations, guiltlessness or holiness.

So this is fleshing out what we talked about last week, which many of
you noticed was gentle and loving and inspiring. And what I want you to
not lose sight of is, that what we&rsquo;re talking about tonight are
the underpinnings of the gentleness and the love and the inspiration
that we talked about last week.

Now, the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s function&mdash;the function of that which
is nothing more than your right Mind&mdash;and which, therefore is your
function, is entirely communication. You&rsquo;re not here to figure
things out. You&rsquo;re not here to be intellectually brilliant.
You&rsquo;re not here to have fantasies or private inventions, all
transpiring in your brain, in your head, in your mind. Your function,
the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s function, is entirely communication.

What&rsquo;s communication? It&rsquo;s connection. It&rsquo;s
involvement. It&rsquo;s fitting together. It&rsquo;s moving in harmony.
It is movements, harmoniously fitting together and in the fitting
together, expressing exquisite beauty&mdash;you could say, beauty of
sound, beauty of sight, beauty of aroma, incredible, infinite beauty.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit&rsquo;s function is ENTIRELY communication. He therefore
must remove whatever interferes with it in order to RESTORE it.
Therefore, keep no source of interference from His sight&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; [chuckling] like a pet project that you want to work on a
little bit longer all by yourself, or some task that you have looked
forward to completing for a number of years and you want to go ahead and
have a little bit more time to do that, all by yourself.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Therefore, keep no source of interference from His sight, for He will
not attack your sentinels. But bring them to Him, and let His gentleness
teach you that, in the light, they are not fearful, and CANNOT serve to
guard the dark doors behind which nothing at all is carefully concealed.
We must open all doors and let the light come streaming through. There
are no hidden chambers in God&rsquo;s temple.
</div>

There are no hidden chambers in you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Its gates are open wide to greet His Son. No-one can fail to come where
God has called him if he close not the door himself upon his
Father&rsquo;s welcome.
</div>

You&rsquo;d think, like if you were going to close the door on your
Father, that you would reach out there and close the door. But where you
close the door is inside you. And you close the door by insisting on
thinking, constantly, blocking or interfering with the entrance of
anything that might uncover to you things you don&rsquo;t want to know
about yourself &hellip; like you don&rsquo;t have to earn your
Birthright anymore. You don&rsquo;t have to prove your worth anymore.
Not proving your worth will not speak poorly of you anymore. Not having
accomplished anything on your own will not discredit you or disgrace you
in anyway anymore.

So, we&rsquo;re talking about not thinking anymore. But we&rsquo;re not
just talking about not thinking anymore, we&rsquo;re talking about not
thinking anymore and making conscious connection with each
other&mdash;not to connect with what each of you think about yourselves
or each other, but with the desire to experience what the Movement of
Creation is Being as each of you, in each and every given moment, which
you can only let into your awareness by being quiet enough and inviting
enough to provide the environment which can be infilled with something.
And that&rsquo;s an act of love. And that&rsquo;s how you shift from
second gear to first gear, from insanity to sanity and from the
experience of fear and guilt to the uninterruptible experience&mdash;the
real experience of peace and love.

Next week&rsquo;s section looks a little bit tantalizing. Be careful,
you might want to read ahead: PERCEPTION WITHOUT DECEIT. Um-m,
we&rsquo;ll nail that ego, but we&rsquo;ll also uncover your divinity.

[Addresses each one] I love you, I love you, I love you, I love you, I
love you, I love you, I love you and I love everyone who is watching,
who has joined us on the Internet. And I look forward to being with you
next week.

[^1]: T14.2 Out of the Darkness

