---
title: Jul 6, 2008
ref: T14.3 Perception without Deceit
alink: "/acim/text/14/chap1403/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the Internet.

You need to be reminded that you have a Friend. You need to remind
yourself daily that you have a Friend and you need to remember that this
friend has a God-given task. And that task is to release you into your
freedom&mdash;release you into your Birthright&mdash;release you into the conscious
experience of what you really Are. The thing to remember is, that in
that release, something will be undone. Something will be undone that
never happened.

Now, we&rsquo;ve got to make that make sense. Let us suppose that you&rsquo;ve gone
to a hypnotist&rsquo;s show. And let&rsquo;s say that you were invited to come up
on the stage. And the hypnotist said to you after hypnotizing you, that
the next time you said the word &ldquo;television,&rdquo; an apple would appear on
the end of your nose and absolutely nothing you could do would make it
disappear. In fact, he tells you that this has always been the case
with everybody anytime anyone says the word, &ldquo;television&rdquo; an apple
appears on the end of their nose that they can&rsquo;t get off. In other
words, it&rsquo;s as though this is the way the universe works.

And so, the show is over and you go home and somewhere in the next
couple days, you happen to say the word, &ldquo;television&rdquo; [snaps
fingers] and boom! You see an apple attached to the end of your nose,
heavy, unsightly. It&rsquo;s not even a beautiful red apple, it&rsquo;s
a green apple.  Nothing you can do will make it come off. And
immediately when the apple appeared, you also knew (and you don&rsquo;t
know where you got this knowing from but you found yourself knowing)
that of course you had a green apple on your nose that wouldn&rsquo;t
come off because you said the word, &ldquo;television&rdquo; and
whenever anybody says the word, &ldquo;television,&rdquo; a green apple
or an apple appears on the end of their nose that they can&rsquo;t get
off. So now you know something happened which hasn&rsquo;t happened. And
you know why it happened. Because it always happens, it&rsquo;s the way
the universe works.

Well, you can understand that getting rid of this apple&mdash;releasing you
from the inconvenience of having an apple stuck on the end of your
nose&mdash;is an undoing of something that never happened. It&rsquo;s easy for you
to see that.

But let&rsquo;s say that you notice a lump in your breast and it&rsquo;s a green
apple. Is it real? Is it God-derived? Or is it an illusion that you
are believing and experiencing the evidence of, which still is no more
real than the apple on the end of your nose that the hypnotist said
would appear as a post-hypnotic suggestion.

Well everyone, this is the way it is. You are here to be released by
your Friend which is the Holy Spirit, which is nothing more than your
right Mind&mdash;your Sanity. Your best Friend is here to release you from a
belief that you have accepted as real, and which you think you have no
way to deny or get beyond because &ldquo;It&rsquo;s the way the universe works.&rdquo;

Well, I&rsquo;m sorry it&rsquo;s not the way the universe works.

The apple can be death. I&rsquo;m here to tell you and my life on earth was
here to tell you, that death is an illusion. Don&rsquo;t buy it!

Everybody says, &ldquo;Oh well, death is a part of life.&rdquo; In fact there are
some that have reasoned it out, that death is just simply a transition
from, let&rsquo;s say, like ice: Water moving from a solid as ice to liquid,
from form to fluid&mdash;formlessness. It&rsquo;s like a wave and particle theory,
where waves are like light and particles are like matter, and life and
death are a shift from particle to wave. And then when you reincarnate,
you go from wave to particle. And, my goodness, there&rsquo;s a whole
explanation. Just like the explanation that said, &ldquo;Hey if you say the
word, &lsquo;television&rsquo; you&rsquo;ll end up with an apple on your nose.&rdquo;

Well the explanation doesn&rsquo;t make it true. The fact that you can come
up with an explanation and even carry it further and say that this
movement from particle to wave, from solid to liquid, from definite to
indefinite, is not only the way life works, but it&rsquo;s a way of refining
your soul. And every time you&rsquo;re in the particle experience, you have
a chance to pick up where you left off and work toward your ultimate
state of divinity, we&rsquo;ll say.

Now, if you believe these things, your Friend won&rsquo;t have a chance with
you. Because your Friend is going to come along and say, &ldquo;The apple
stuck on the end of your nose isn&rsquo;t there at all and I want you to let
go of the definite belief you have about it and I want you to see beyond
it. I want you to see beneath it. I want you to be willing to let it
go. I want you to stop being frustrated by its presence. I want you to
stop reacting to it because all the energy you bring to reacting to it
makes it seem more real to you, more definite and more stuck.

&ldquo;I want you to be curious to see the more of what God is Being right
there where the apple is, than what you&rsquo;re seeing. I want you to let me
reveal to you what the truth is here.&rdquo;

Now as we discussed last week and the week before, every moment is a
perfect opportunity to have a shift of perception. And the most perfect
times to have shifts of perception is when you&rsquo;re disturbed. Because
when you are disturbed by your own thoughts or the negative thoughts of
others, you become hooked and obsessed with energizing your concern and
your distress. And that holds the problem squarely in front of you,
even though because it was not placed there by the Movement of God, of Creation,
it&rsquo;s not actually there.

Now, I understand that this stretches you. I was going to say, stretches
your imagination, but it doesn&rsquo;t stretch your imagination, your
imagination can go even further than what I&rsquo;ve described. But, it
stretches you because you are so very sure of things. When you&rsquo;ve
said &ldquo;television&rsquo;&rsquo; and the apple is on your nose,
you&rsquo;re sure of it. If you feel a lump here or there, or an injury
here or there, you know it.  It&rsquo;s a fact for you.

But if your Friend is going to have any success in releasing you from a
bondage that never actually happened, you&rsquo;re going to have to be
willing, right in the face of your fear or your concern or your
distress, to stop and be willing to stand back, in so many words, and
say, &ldquo;What&rsquo;s the more of what God is Being here than what
I&rsquo;m experiencing. I have a feeling this can&rsquo;t be the
ultimate, [chuckles] even though I&rsquo;ve been told by others that
this is the ultimate, you know, that you can move from particle to wave
to particle to wave and it&rsquo;s called incarnating and not be
incarnated and reincarnating and so on. I think maybe this isn&rsquo;t
true and I want to know what the truth is, where birth and death, both,
are swallowed up in a sudden shift of perception in which unchangeable
life is my experience.&rdquo;

Now you trap yourselves, as I&rsquo;ve said before, by your words.
&ldquo;Oh, I cut myself!&rdquo; and your word becomes law and you react
and you make that word real. &ldquo;Oh, he ran into that wall at sixty
miles an hour! Wow!&rdquo; And that has meaning for you&mdash;disastrous
meaning. Doesn&rsquo;t have to have that meaning. You could say,
&ldquo;He ran into that wall at sixty miles an hour and came out the
other side without losing a fraction of a mile an hour and arrived at
his destination on time.&rdquo;

Your belief is, that a wall is an impediment to movement. It&rsquo;s
not.  But your belief makes it a fact for you. And you don&rsquo;t
challenge it and when you say, &ldquo;He ran into the wall,&rdquo; or
you say, &ldquo;I&rsquo;m going to run into that wall and I&rsquo;m
going sixty miles an hour,&rdquo; it doesn&rsquo;t have to mean the end.
It simply means that you&rsquo;re going to go [laughs] through the wall
at sixty miles an hour and continue on and arrive at your destination.

Now, you&rsquo;ve got to be willing to look at these challenges, or
these suggestions, or invitations that present themselves to you every
day, of negativity, of death, of sin, of sickness, of suffering, of
deterioration. You&rsquo;ve got to be willing to face them with a
spontaneous willingness to see a different answer than the one you
normally would declare, and by your own words, bind yourself.

And you have a Friend whose task it is&hellip; whose pleasure it is to
share with you the Vision that undoes the bondage that seems inevitable
to you because the inevitability is part of the belief of it:
&ldquo;Anytime anyone says &lsquo;television&rsquo; they&rsquo;re going
to have an apple on the end of their nose, anytime you hit a wall at 60
miles an hour you&rsquo;re going to die.&rdquo;

It&rsquo;s time to get beyond these absolute convictions that you have.
You must be willing to challenge them and challenge them with a light
heart, challenge them with a curiosity that you direct toward this
Friend&mdash;which is really nothing more than your right Mind&mdash;the
Presence of God that actually constitutes you. And you&rsquo;ve got to
start doing this regularly, with joy, with really substantial interest,
because it really is time to discover the things that have never
happened, so that you&rsquo;re left with what&rsquo;s Really there,
instead of what you think happened.

All this is about undoing what never happened. And the only way you&rsquo;re
going to arrive at the conscious experience of the fact that it didn&rsquo;t
happen is by your willingness to withdraw your conviction that it did,
and that you know what the happening meant, and you know why it
happened, and you know why the results are inevitable and why you can&rsquo;t
possibly become free from them.

&ldquo;Well, I know that I have lived a lot of years and I am elderly. I may
feel pretty good, but you know, other people my age are dying. I turn
on the news and so-and-so who is seventy-four died, or somebody&hellip;
so-and-so who is sixty-three died the other day.&rdquo; And you make
connections. You put what you think is two and two together and you
say, &ldquo;Well, [chuckling] you know, just like the guy who says
&lsquo;television&rsquo; gets a green apple on their nose, somebody who&rsquo;s
seventy-five is bound to die.&rdquo;

Stop it! Stop engaging in this! Don&rsquo;t bind yourself anymore by your
words. Take your words, take these thoughts that come to you to your
Friend, because these thoughts cover something up. These thoughts put
the truth in a hidden place where the truth becomes a secret that nobody
knows.

The truth that&rsquo;s covered up is your Birthright to be experiencing. And
we&rsquo;re talking about, through all of this, you&rsquo;re arriving at a point
where truth dawns on you, revelation occurs&mdash;a sudden shift of
perception.

Here&rsquo;s a thought about a sudden shift of perception: A sudden shift of
perception is when, for some reason, you shift from a state of mind of
selfishness to selflessness where something happens when you were
engaged in trying to protect yourself or get what you thought you
needed, an event occurred that caused you to let go of that, so that you
might stand in a position of gifting another with something they need,
where you suddenly were inspired right in the middle of your selfishness
to be thoughtful, to put your selfishness on the back burner, so that
you could take care of this situation. That&rsquo;s a sudden shift of
perception, where one moment you&rsquo;re operating in one space and the next
moment you&rsquo;re operating in another space.

A miracle is a sudden shift of perception where you were operating in a
space of bondage, of limitation, of sin, sickness, death, suffering,
deterioration and on and on and on. And suddenly, as they say in the
Christian Churches, you were infilled with the Holy Spirit, not some
other-worldly Holy Spirit&mdash;a part of a Trinity far above and different
from you, but a Holy Spirit as wonderful as you imagined as part of the
Trinity that&rsquo;s not out there but is your very own Sane Mind that fills
you, because you have been willing to abandon the word you have been
giving to your experience that has blinded you and bound you to
something that isn&rsquo;t real.

It&rsquo;s time to find out that sin, sickness and death is not real and did
not ever happen. Every moment is a perfect moment to become
disillusioned. Every moment is a perfect moment to become free of
illusion, unbound and in your right Mind.

Now, let&rsquo;s go into the book and I&rsquo;m going to back up just a bit, a
couple of sentences&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He&hellip; [^1]
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit, this Friend which is nothing more than your right
Mind&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; has promised the Father that through Him&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you would be released from littleness to glory. To what He
promised God He is wholly faithful, for He shared with God the promise
that was given Him to share with YOU.
</div>

Let&rsquo;s face it, if the Holy Spirit is nothing more than your right Mind,
then it&rsquo;s bound to be His purpose to reveal Himself to you as You,
because that&rsquo;s the only thing that will bring the integrity of your
Being back into play. That which is nothing more than your right Mind
cannot help but be wholly faithful to what It is and thereby in its
active relationship with you, while you&rsquo;re not paying any attention to
who you really Are, It can do nothing less than illuminate the truth of
what It is as you to you so that there is a shift of perception,
resulting integrity of the Movement of that which is nothing but your
right Mind is absolutely inevitable.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; shares it still, for YOU.
</div>

&hellip; for YOU! The Holy Spirit hasn&rsquo;t stopped being your Friend, with
the intent to fulfill its promise, to fulfill its purpose.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He shares it still, for YOU.
</div>

In spite of the fact that you think you&rsquo;re an entity with a green apple
on the end of its nose that has no choice about it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Everything that promises otherwise, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; promises other than release&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; great or small, however much or little valued, He will replace
with the ONE promise given unto Him to lay upon the altar to your Father
and His Son.
</div>

Does that mean the Father and Jesus? No, it means the Father and you.
The Holy Spirit&rsquo;s purpose is to lay the clear understanding of what you
are at the altar of your Being&mdash;which is the altar of God&mdash;and reveal you
to yourself, so that you might become unconfused.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
No altar stands to God WITHOUT His Son. And nothing brought there that
is not equally worthy of both but will be replaced by gifts wholly
acceptable to Father AND to Son.
</div>

In other words, if you bring a gift to the altar of hate or of deceit,
or if you bring a concern about an apple that&rsquo;s on the end of your
nose&mdash;that isn&rsquo;t really there&mdash;it&rsquo;s something that
ends up having to be given to the Father. But you can&rsquo;t give a lie
to the Father, because a lie in the presence of the Father doesn&rsquo;t
exist. It&rsquo;s one those things that never happened, and that
you&rsquo;ve got to find out never happened. So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; nothing brought there that is not equally worthy of both
</div>

&hellip; Father and Son&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; will be replaced by gifts wholly acceptable to Father AND to Son.
</div>

It will be replaced by the Holy Spirit.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Can you offer guilt to God? You cannot, then, offer it to His Son. For
they are not apart, and gifts to one ARE offered to the other.
</div>

Oh, I know&hellip; it seems as though you can offer guilt to your brother
and it seems as though your brother can offer guilt to you, but that&rsquo;s a
suggestion, just like: &ldquo;If you say the word &lsquo;television&rsquo; an apple will
appear on the end of your nose and nothing you can do will make it come
off. And it will happen because anyone who says the word &lsquo;television&rsquo;
always ends up with an apple on the end of his nose. It&rsquo;s the way the
universe works.&rdquo;

Again, it&rsquo;s time to become unstuck from what isn&rsquo;t true and therefore
never happened. But you don&rsquo;t know how to distinguish between what is
Real and what isn&rsquo;t. And that&rsquo;s why you have a Friend that can. And
that&rsquo;s why that friend&rsquo;s purpose is to disclose the difference to you so
that you can discard what isn&rsquo;t serving you and which you find no
benefit in.

Again&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Can you offer guilt&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; or anything untrue&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; to God? You cannot, then, offer it to His Son. For they are not
apart, and gifts to one ARE offered to the other.

You know not God because you know not this.
</div>

You don&rsquo;t know God because you think you and God are something separate
from each other&mdash;you don&rsquo;t know of the unity. So&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You know not God because you know not this. And yet you DO know God and
ALSO this.
</div>

See, it&rsquo;s a paradox: You don&rsquo;t know this, and you do know this. One of
the things you know isn&rsquo;t real, and one of the things you know is Real.
One of the things has happened, and one of the things has never
happened.

So again, all we&rsquo;re ever doing is undoing what never happened. And it
is accomplished by getting you to be willing to look at everything with
a curiosity to know what the truth is about it, instead of being
confident yourself and giving the word yourself and becoming bound by it
because you know this is the way the universe works.

Again&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You know not God because you know not this. And yet you DO know God and
ALSO this. All this&hellip;
</div>

All this&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is safe within you, where the Holy Spirit shines. He shines not in
division, but in the meeting place where God, united with His Son,
speaks to His Son through Him. Communication between what cannot be
divided CANNOT cease.
</div>

Well, then that means that communication between God and His Son or
Daughter has been ceaseless. And the fact that you seem not to hear the
Father is one of those things that never happened. But you think&hellip;
and your thinking says, &ldquo;Yeah, yeah, yeah, but I have a lifetime
of never having heard God. And if God is omnipotent and if God is my
Being then how could I possibly have lived a whole lifetime without
talking with God?&rdquo; That&rsquo;s part of the hypnotist&rsquo;s
story, like: &ldquo;Anyone who says the word &lsquo;television&rsquo;
will end up with an apple on his nose that he can&rsquo;t get
off.&rdquo;

I don&rsquo;t care if you spent a whole lifetime and never talked with
God. I don&rsquo;t care if you spent a whole lifetime and never talked
with the Holy Spirit&mdash;that which is nothing more than your right
Mind, or nothing less than your right Mind. I am saying, as you go
through each day, reach for the Holy Spirit. Stop grousing because
nobody told you for most of your life that you could talk to the Holy
Spirit, and that the Holy Spirit was nothing less than your right Mind,
or nothing more than your right Mind. Stop grousing about it. It
doesn&rsquo;t matter. Now you know and now you can reach&hellip; now you
can say, &ldquo;I wish to see everything through Your Vision which is
Your gift to me from God.&rdquo; In this way you stop acting as though
you are out of your right Mind and it lays the ground work for cohesion
and unity to return in you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The holy meeting place of the unseparated Father and His Son &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you see, separation never happened. It&rsquo;s one of those things. It
never happened. You believe it happened. You believe you&rsquo;ve lived a
life separated, not connected with God and having to somehow gain His
respect and gain His Love by somehow overcoming your sinfulness, blah,
blah, blah.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The holy meeting place of the unseparated Father and His Son lies in the
Holy Spirit and in YOU.
</div>

That&rsquo;s the truth that has forever been happening.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
All interference in the communication that God Himself wills with His
Son is quite impossible here. Unbroken and uninterrupted love flows
constantly between the Father and the Son, as BOTH would have it be.
</div>

Both would have it be that way because that is the way the universe
works. That is what happens. That is what has happened.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And so it IS.
</div>

Are you beginning to see how practical it is to challenge &ldquo;being old,&rdquo;
to challenge the meaning you&rsquo;ve given to it, to challenge the meanings
everyone else has given to it that has caused, for lack of better words,
a hypnotic suggestion that everybody&rsquo;s obedient to? And so, they walk
around like the one with the apple on his nose, behaving like they&rsquo;re
old and having the expectations that old people have, and not having
expectations that eighteen year olds have or thirty year olds, and not
engaging in the things that a forty year old would gladly tackle.
&ldquo;Well, I&rsquo;m not going to be here long enough to finish that project. No
point in starting that.&rdquo; Well, you see the foot go sink into the ground
on its way into the grave.

Stop giving your definitions and start asking, &ldquo;How do I go through a
wall at 60 miles an hour and come out the other side without having lost
any time at all? How do I be seventy years old? How do I be ninety
years old and feel like tackling a new project with gusto? How do I let
go of the doubts that are instilled in me that say, &lsquo;it&rsquo;s useless to
take on a new project at ninety years old.&rsquo;&rdquo;

Start asking these questions&hellip; of who? Of that which is nothing
more than your right Mind&mdash;your Sanity. It&rsquo;s there for you. It is there
with a cause. It&rsquo;s there with a promise to fulfill&mdash;a promise made to
God. It is the purpose of your Mind, your right Mind, to uncover and
bring forth you in your right Mind, no longer bound by strange ideas.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Let your minds wander not through darkened corridors, away from light's
center. You may choose to lead yourselves astray, but you can only be
brought TOGETHER by the Guide appointed for you. He will surely lead you
to where God and His Son await your recognition.

He will surely lead you to where God and&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you in your right Mind, knowing you are God&rsquo;s&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; Son await your recognition.
</div>

Atonement&hellip; coming back into your right Mind&mdash;being Sane again&mdash;not
being hypnotized and believing the hypnotic suggestion.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
They&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; God and His Son&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; are joined in giving you the gift of oneness, before which ALL
separation vanishes.
</div>

Everything about your Being is geared toward your regaining your Sanity
and becoming free of that which never happened, even though your
education has said, &ldquo;All of what never happened did indeed happen and is
going to continue to happen, it is an ongoing cycle of life, period. No
ands ifs or buts.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Unite with what you ARE. You CANNOT join with anything except reality.
God's glory and His Son's belong to you in truth. They HAVE no opposite,
and nothing else CAN you bestow upon yourselves.
</div>

You remember: &ldquo;What do you want, truth or illusion?&rdquo; Truth is the
awareness that what never happened, never happened, which means that
truth is the awareness of what Is and always has been.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is no substitute for truth. And truth will make this plain to you
as you are brought into the place where you must MEET with truth.
</div>

Your Friend brings you there, but you have to say to your Friend, &ldquo;Bring
me there.&rdquo; You have to say to your Friend, &ldquo;I wish to see everything
through Your Vision, which is Your gift to me from God.&rdquo;

If you do not abandon the right you think you have to think for yourself
and come to conclusions on your own, you will not benefit from this
Friend and will not experience the return of your Sanity, because your
mind has become integrated, because you&rsquo;ve let sanity return.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; truth will make this plain to you as you are brought into the
place where you must MEET with truth. And there you must be led, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; led&hellip; see, that&rsquo;s what&rsquo;s hard for the orphan mentality, for
the self-determined one&mdash;being led is insulting. But being independent
is what keeps you isolated from your Sanity. And your Sanity is what
your really want.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; there you must be led, through gentle understanding which can lead
you nowhere else. Where God is, there are YOU. Such IS the truth.
Nothing can change the knowledge given you by God into unknowingness.
</div>

It seems to have, but that&rsquo;s one of the things that never happened. You
cannot actually be in a state of unknowningness. All there is to be
known, all of creation, awaits your conscious experience of it because
it&rsquo;s your Birthright to be experiencing it. To not be experiencing it
is something you think is actual, just like the hypnotized one believes
that the apple on his nose is actual. But it&rsquo;s not!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Everything God created knows its Creator. For this is how creation is
accomplished by the Creator and by His creations. In the holy meeting
place are joined the Father and His creations, and the creations of His
Son with Them together. There is one link which joins them all together,
holding them in the Oneness out of which creation happens.
</div>

So as you&rsquo;re willing to invite this Friend to reveal to you what the
truth is here, and here, and here, and here, you are inviting the
opening in you that will allow you to move into the very depth of the
Movement of Creation with the Father, in which your Eternal Life is
known by you. And the idea of age and all the beliefs associated with
it, mean nothing. And where the belief of having an apple on your nose,
or illnesses, or death, or deterioration also mean nothing. And all of
these things will mean nothing right here, right where you are, because
you&rsquo;ll see the chair as it really Is and you&rsquo;ll see your fingernails and
your body as it really Is&mdash;as Creation itself, which is immutable,
unchangeable, not subject to death, able to pass through walls like a
speeding bullet. Experience no impediments.

So as I said last week, take every apparently innocuous moment, every
seemingly regular moment and be curious because it speaks of God and it
speaks of Creation, because that&rsquo;s what it Is. And it&rsquo;s your Birthright
to be experiencing it for what it Is. And to find out that what you
thought it was never happened! There in lies your freedom, your
healing, your blessing, your Awakening.

And I wish you a glorious week. I love you all.

[^1]: T14.3 Perception without Deceit

