---
title: Jul 13, 2008
ref: "T14.3 Perception without Deceit"
alink: "/acim/text/14/chap1403/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

You know, if you choose to become utterly simple within yourself, if you
have a desire to back off from all the complications, all the
technicalities of what goes on with you, with a desire to get down to
the fundamental of you, what you might call the fundamental motivation
or fundamental drive, you&rsquo;ll find that you come to a place, not as
an intellectual thing, but as an experience where there is silence and
you feel an impulse to declare yourself&mdash;you feel a need, an urge,
an impulsion to assert &hellip; make assertion. It&rsquo;s very much a
place, a state of mind similar to that expressed by Captain Picard in
Star Trek, where he says, &ldquo;Make it so.&rdquo; You will find
yourself at a very primal, fundamental state wherein you feel the need
to make it so&mdash;to make something so, [chuckles] make anything so!

Now, in the making it so, in the making of something so, you are giving
birth to yourself. The assertion is so primal, so back to basics, that
you realize that in that assertion you are bringing yourself into
existence&mdash;into existence as recognizable to
others&mdash;recognizable, and present in life itself. And everything
else that follows simply compounds that initial act of self-creation
accomplished by means of making an assertion.

You will find, in that experience of allowing yourself back into that
primal place, that it&rsquo;s as though until you make that assertion,
you don&rsquo;t yet really exist. There&rsquo;s nothing recognizable
about you. And this is why you must, under all circumstances, without
fail, assert yourself&mdash;make something so, because that will make
you so.

Now the way you make something so is by thinking something up. What the
Course calls &ldquo;making&rdquo; as opposed to &ldquo;creating.&rdquo;
And so, you assert yourself by having what could only be called, an
original idea. It must be original in order to be recognizable as worthy
of giving one&rsquo;s attention to, else, the giving birth to yourself
by virtue of expressing this original idea, will not occur fully. In
other words, you will not be made so&mdash;fully&mdash;because if the
thought, if the concept, if the idea is not original and worthy of
attention by being original, you have not become something valid yet.

Existence on this basis is a matter of consistently and forever
asserting yourself in order to make yourself real.

All of you, if you will take the time with genuine interest and genuine
willingness to get past all of the surface mish-mash and sink down into
that which is really fundamental to you, sort of casting aside
everything that might be irrelevant so that you get down to the
essential element, you will find this act that I&rsquo;ve described, as
an awareness of how you brought yourself into being as who you think you
are. And you will realize how powerful the act seemed to be because you
will realize that you used a tremendous amount of energy, we&rsquo;ll
say, to assert yourself&mdash;to make yourself known. And you will then
realize that you are continuing to use that kind of force today in order
to live your life, in order to live your life successfully with dignity,
respect, and so on.

But I must point out to you, that although this will be your experience
if you allow this to happen, it will not be an experience of who you
truly Are. It will be an experience of what you seem to be, as an ego.
And this is very important.

We are, every week, every time we get together, learning how to abandon
that primitive act of self-assertion. Because the act of self-assertion
is the introduction of thinking, which blinds you to and keeps you from
experiencing what you truly Are.

Now the simple fact is, that before you utter this primal scream, as it
were, this primal self-assertion, you&rsquo;re very aware of being
conscious. There is something there feeling this urge, you see. This,
that is there, is pure awareness. This that is there, is the divine You
that is all Knowing, that is inseparable from and un-separated from its
Source, the Father&mdash;God. And the impulse to act, to give birth to
yourself, is an act of creating something different from this pure
infinite all-inclusive awareness that is the Presence of God being all
there is to you and thereby you being absolutely and completely
fulfilled.

This impulse to act independently as an assertion of you, so that you as
who you want to be known as can become knowable, is the cause of what
you call, the human condition. It is the cause of sin, disease, and
death. It is the cause of the experience of guilt. It&rsquo;s the
enactment of shifting from first gear to second gear and becoming the
orphan which automatically brings into play third gear, which is guilt
and fear&mdash;inseparable guilt and fear.

There is no legitimate or valuable thinking. All thinking is an
extension of the need to create yourself by virtue of independent
self-assertion in order to make yourself knowable on your terms instead
of the terms of Creation.

And so, although I constantly am saying God did not give you the
capacity to think, and although I encourage you in many many ways to
dare to abandon thinking, to move into the Silence with active curiosity
and then listen instead of think, it seems as though I&rsquo;m asking
you to do something totally unreasonable, because that is all you are
used to doing&mdash;is thinking and claiming your presence in the world,
birthing yourself constantly in the world and to your fellow man. And
you think that&rsquo;s normal. You think that is the meaning of life.
You think that God gave you the capacity to do that and in doing it, you
are indeed validating yourself when in fact, you are, by doing that,
constantly obscuring who and what you really Are from yourself and your
fellow man.

What is the only thing that makes you guilty? The only thing that makes
you guilty is your behaving as though you&rsquo;re out of your mind
&hellip; is you believing that you&rsquo;re doing something that God
didn&rsquo;t give you the capacity to do. That which seems to make you
guilty is you thinking as an act of self-creation, of birthing yourself,
and becoming recognizably present, real and valid.

It isn&rsquo;t what you&rsquo;re attempting to do that makes you guilty,
it&rsquo;s the fact that in attempting to do it, you have abandoned
first gear, and you have taken up residence in second gear. And second
gear always is absolutely accompanied by guilt and fear. This is
important, because if you want to see and experience yourself as
guiltless and if you want to see and experience your brother as
guiltless, you&rsquo;re going to have to be willing to recognize that
neither you nor your brother or sister have the capacity to think and
actually accomplish anything. And therefore, you are innocent of
anything you have thought up [chuckle] and believed about yourselves or
about each other.

And you will realize that in order to experience your brother&rsquo;s
innocence or your innocence, you&rsquo;re going to have to be willing to
get beyond thinking or behind it, to back up prior to the thought.
That&rsquo;s what becoming still does.

Your brother is innocent. He seems to be guilty because he&rsquo;s been
thinking. And he feels guilty because he&rsquo;s been thinking.
He&rsquo;s been operating independently and by his act of self-creation,
blocking his experience of what he is and was before he expressed that
primal scream&mdash;that primal self-assertion.

You can say, &ldquo;My brother is innocent.&rdquo; But saying it
doesn&rsquo;t make it so. Saying it doesn&rsquo;t mean you&rsquo;re
having the experience. Having the experience will only come when you are
willing to get behind&mdash;come to that place before your
thought&mdash;and in that place prior to thought, right now, which
means, in the silence within you, in the peace within you, you are
absent the experience of thinking but not absent the experience of
consciousness&mdash;of awareness. And in that place, you can desire to
know the truth about your brother. The truth about your brother that
exists only prior to or behind whatever thoughts he&rsquo;s employing in
his act of self-assertion, or her act of self-assertion.

Don&rsquo;t waste your time saying, &ldquo;My brother is innocent
&hellip; my sister is innocent &hellip; well they&rsquo;re innocent, you
know?&rdquo;

Words don&rsquo;t mean anything. You better be having the experience of
their innocence. And the only way to have the experience of their
innocence is to get into the experience of your innocence which means to
back up behind the thought&mdash;the thinking&mdash;and get into the
silence desiring to know what the truth is, and abandoning your own
independent state of existence that you birthed by your self-assertion.

Then, you&rsquo;ll be able to have the experience of your
brother&rsquo;s innocence or your sister&rsquo;s innocence and you will
have it along with yours. Because I promise you something: If
you&rsquo;re thinking and you&rsquo;re finding thinking valuable, it is
going to be impossible for you to look at your brother or sister and not
make the absolute assumption that they are thinking and they are finding
thinking valuable. Well, if you see that, you&rsquo;re not seeing their
innocence whether you say they&rsquo;re innocent or not. Words are
cheap.

You don&rsquo;t want just words, you want the experience. Because the
experience is the experience of God&rsquo;s Truth. It is the experience
of how things really Are. And they constitute the manner in which
healing and transformation occurs for you and for your brother and
sister. So let&rsquo;s keep this in mind.

We&rsquo;re going to be talking tonight about holiness&mdash;your
holiness. Well, your holiness is always going to be covered up by your
thinking. But it&rsquo;s there prior to the thinking. It&rsquo;s there
now prior to the assertion of and creation of yourself that is
accomplished by your thinking in this moment.

Your holiness and your innocence are both present now. But you
don&rsquo;t think of yourselves as holy. You sort of assign that to
priests, maybe &hellip; or ministers, or &ldquo;teachers of God.&rdquo;
And even then it&rsquo;s by choice. It&rsquo;s a vocation. It&rsquo;s
something they&rsquo;ve chosen. But we&rsquo;re talking about everyone
being actually holy. Not as a vocation, not as something you&rsquo;ve
chosen, but as a state of Being that you need to more and more include
in your awareness of yourself as you do the most mundane things every
day.

Now, let&rsquo;s go into the Book.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The link with which the Father joins Himself to those He gives the power
to create like Him &hellip;[^1]
</div>

&hellip; meaning, His Sons and Daughters &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; can NEVER be dissolved.
</div>

It can&rsquo;t be dissolved because Creation is God&rsquo;s extension of
Himself, you might say.

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The link with which the Father joins Himself to those He gives the power
to create like Him &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; can NEVER be dissolved.
</div>

It&rsquo;s a permanent, unalterable state of Being. Not something you
have to gain and not something you can lose.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Heaven itself is union with all of creation, and with its One Creator.
</div>

Do you know what that means? It means that Heaven isn&rsquo;t a place.
It means that Heaven is awareness.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Heaven itself is union with all of creation, and with its One Creator.
</div>

It means it is conscious awareness that isn&rsquo;t split, that
isn&rsquo;t divided up into, we&rsquo;ll say, multiple personalities. It
is awareness that is all inclusive. Inclusive of all of Creation, Heaven
is that conscious awareness in which all of Creation is embraced and
experienced. Something which you must be willing to allow by ceasing to
think, by ceasing to do that which obscures the experience or that which
is Heaven.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Heaven itself is union with all of creation, and with its One Creator.
And Heaven remains the Will of God for you.
</div>

In other words, unbounded awareness of all that Is and union with It and
awareness of Its union with you, and we might say no thoughts that are
unknown, all thoughts of everyone being known by everyone so that
communication is communion, that&rsquo;s the new normalcy&mdash;what
will seem new to you, but it is what is natural. It is what is Real.

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Heaven itself is union with all of creation, and with its One Creator.
And Heaven remains the Will of God for you. Lay no gifts other than this
upon your altars&hellip;
</div>

What does that mean? It means, let that be the only gift you lay on your
altar. Stop laying the gift of all of the fantastic thoughts
you&rsquo;ve come up with. Right now, you&rsquo;re laying all of your
creations on the altar. All of these creations that have come out of
this primordial need to express yourself and make your presence known by
virtue of expressing original ideas of your very own, which causes you,
by virtue of their originality, to be seen as worthwhile and truly
valid.

That&rsquo;s what you have to stop laying on the altar, where right now,
that&rsquo;s all you are laying on the altar.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Lay no gifts other than &hellip;
</div>

Heaven: The willingness to be the conscious awareness of all that Is.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Lay no gifts other than this upon your altars, for nothing can coexist
beside it.
</div>

You see? What makes you innocent is the fact that all the thoughts
you&rsquo;ve thought are one of those things that never happened. If God
didn&rsquo;t think it, so to speak, it was never thought. And the
consequences of your thinking, therefore, don&rsquo;t exist as an
actuality. And that is why you&rsquo;re innocent, because you
haven&rsquo;t been doing what you thought you were doing, literally.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Lay no gifts other than this upon your altars, for nothing can coexist
beside it.
</div>

All of your thoughts which you use to self-create yourself cannot
coexist on the altar, actually, with the only true gift.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Here &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; on the altar &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; your meager offerings are brought together with the gift of
God&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; which is Heaven, which we&rsquo;ve said is not a place, but it
is the unobstructed, conscious experience of Reality. It&rsquo;s the
awareness of Reality, in which none of Reality is obscured to you or
separated from you, in which you are inseparable from it. And communion
of the wholeness of Creation is your experience. So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Here your meager offerings are brought together with the gift of God,
and only what is worthy of the Father will be accepted by the Son, for
whom it was intended. To whom God gives Himself He IS given. Your little
gifts &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; all of your wonderful, self-creative&mdash;meaning those things
you&rsquo;ve used to create yourself&mdash;all of those thoughts
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; will vanish on the altar where He &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; God &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; has placed His Own.
</div>

The next subsection is entitled &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*The Recognition of Holiness*

The Atonement does not MAKE holy. You were CREATED holy. It merely
brings unholiness TO holiness; or what you MADE to what you ARE.
</div>

So it brings all of these thoughts which you have used to create
yourself, it brings those to the truth, it brings those to what you Are.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The bringing together of truth and illusion, of the ego to God, is the
Holy Spirit's only function. Keep not your making &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in other words, all your thoughts, all of your creations.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Keep not your making from your Father, for hiding it has cost you
knowledge of Him and of yourselves.
</div>

You see? &ldquo;But, Father, I&rsquo;d rather see it my way. See, you
get your independence stance, you stand back and you keep your thoughts,
they&rsquo;re yours. &ldquo;Father, to heck with you, I&rsquo;d rather
see it my way. My perception is what I&rsquo;m going to validate and
value and live by. Sayonara.&rdquo; But when you bring your thoughts,
your creations, so to speak, your acts of self-creation that created an
imaginary self, when you bring those to the Father, or when you bring
those to the Holy Spirit they will be laid upon the alter in you and
placed beside the gifts of God. Your gifts will become obviously
valueless and you will gladly let them go, because that is what happens
when what is Real and what is unreal are brought together.

Now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The knowledge is safe, but wherein is YOUR safety apart from it? The
making of time to TAKE THE PLACE of timelessness &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning, all inclusive infinite knowing now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; lay in the decision to be not as you were.
</div>

You see? Here you were as pure awareness and then you felt an impulsion
to assert, which God didn&rsquo;t create you to do and which there is no
actual need to do, because Being was already whole and complete. And so
you asserted yourself to bring yourself into existence on your terms.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The making of time to TAKE THE PLACE of timelessness lay in the decision
to be not as you were. Thus, truth was made past&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in other words, the experience before self-assertion became
what was, not what is &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and the present was dedicated to illusion.
</div>

The present was dedicated to the self you were in the act of giving
creation to, by virtue of continuing to assert more and more original
ideas.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And the past, too, was changed and interposed between what always was
and NOW.
</div>

In other word, what always was, was initially the past when you made
your self-assertion and seemed to create a new experience of self and
identity and existence. But then the past&mdash;meaning you in your
pristine and perfect state of mind, that became no longer the
past&mdash;that was replaced by the history of your acts of thinking
original ideas for the purpose of maintaining an ongoing creation of
yourself, period. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The past which YOU remember &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning, the history of your original thinking for the purpose
of creating yourself &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; NEVER was, and represents only the denial of what ALWAYS was.
</div>

Your preoccupation with yourself presently and preoccupation with your
past, meaning the history of your self-assertions, don&rsquo;t
constitute an actual present of an actual past. What came before this
false experience of now and history, which at this point is an
experience you had in the past, that is the truth of you now and is
available to you now in your willingness to get behind your thoughts,
which is another way of saying &hellip; moving into the silence.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Bringing the ego to God is but to bring error to truth, where it stands
corrected because it is the OPPOSITE of what it meets, and is undone
because the contradiction can no longer stand.
</div>

When you&rsquo;re willing to say, &ldquo;Father,&rdquo; as though
it&rsquo;s the first word of a prayer&mdash;which means you&rsquo;re
reaching out to something outside of this self-created independent
entity that you think you are&mdash;when you say, &ldquo;Father,&rdquo;
you are taking the first step to bring illusion to truth, because you
are reaching outside the illusion.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Bringing the ego to God is but to bring error to truth, where it stands
corrected because it is the OPPOSITE of what it meets, and is undone
because the contradiction can no longer stand. How long can
contradiction stand when its impossible nature is clearly revealed? What
disappears in light is not attacked. It merely vanishes because it is
not true. Different realities are meaningless&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; different realities. It&rsquo;s nonsensical &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; for reality must be one. It CANNOT change with time or mood or
chance. Its changelessness is what MAKES it real. This cannot BE undone.
Undoing is for unreality. And this reality WILL do for you.
</div>

[sigh] What you truly are cannot be undone and never has been undone,
even through this apparently powerful self-assertion by which you gave
birth to yourself, in spite of all the dynamics of that, nothing
happened. And your continuing effort to do it continues to be, nothing
happening. All it is, is something that stands as a preoccupation in
your mind, distracting you from the direct experience of Reality, Heaven
here, now.

It&rsquo;s time for the truth of you to become apparent to you.
It&rsquo;s time for your holiness and innocence to be your experience.
And someone is finally telling you that the way to do it is to stop
thinking. And if meditation is the only way you can get back of, or
behind, or underneath thinking, so that you&rsquo;re in the silence that
constitutes pure awareness, then meditate. Do whatever it takes to allow
yourself to be pure awareness. And be pure awareness in the grocery
store. Be pure awareness in the bathroom. Be pure awareness no matter
what you&rsquo;re doing, no matter where you are, no matter how you
would have in the past defined the situation or circumstances.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Merely by being what it is does truth release you from everything that
it is NOT.
</div>

But if you&rsquo;re going to have that experience of undoing,
you&rsquo;ve got to stop thinking, and you have to move into the
silence. You have to dare to allow yourself to stop controlling the
birthing of you into existence so that you might find that in the
absence of that strenuous endeavor, you already exist whole&mdash;right
there in the grocery store, right there in your car on the freeway,
right there in bed with your wife, right there mowing the lawn.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Merely by being what it is does truth release you from everything that
it is NOT.
</div>

If you let truth be more important to you than birthing yourself.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Atonement is so gentle you need but whisper to it, and all its power
will rush to your assistance and support.
</div>

What does that mean? That means that you don&rsquo;t have to assert
yourself to get it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Atonement is so gentle you need but whisper to it&hellip;
</div>

In fact, the practice of whispering gives you a very direct experience
of not being powerful&mdash;I promise you. It is very hard to be
assertive in a whisper, [whispering] very difficult. In fact, it&rsquo;s
so difficult that if you insist on continuing to whisper you will begin
to whisper intelligence rather than force. [Chuckling] You will find
ideas to express through whispers, which by virtue of their intelligence
will be motivating, not by virtue of the vigor and force with which you
whisper. You see?

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Atonement is so gentle you need but whisper to it&hellip;
</div>

Well, this is a key, also. Because when you do meditate, when you do, do
whatever helps you move into the silence and into the peace of your
Being, any desire that you might express from there, any desire that
arises in your mind out of your peace, will find fulfillment if the
desire is whispered, if the desire is gently placed, if the desire is
almost silently placed, because that&rsquo;s when the least amount of
willpower, of willfulness is being expressed. And because you are
expressing or giving expression to a desire which has emerged from the
peace, in the silence of your Being, it really is a matter of you
cooperating with that movement rather than being the creator of it and
subsequently the authorizer of it through willfulness or force. You see?

And so the act became an act as a result of awareness, and moved into
action by virtue of your continuing to be awareness, not by virtue of
your becoming an actor.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Atonement is so gentle you need but whisper to it, and &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; indeed &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; all its power will rush to your assistance and support.
</div>

That is what you will find yourself experiencing when you act from your
peace, when you be from your innocence, your holiness.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You are not frail with God beside you.
</div>

That&rsquo;s a wonderful experience awaiting you. You&rsquo;re also not
powerful, but you are omnipotent.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You are not frail with God beside you. Yet without Him you are nothing.
</div>

What do you mean without Him? Well, when you birthed yourself by
asserting yourself through the expression of a thought that was
original, you were being without Him&mdash;you were being independent.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; without Him you are nothing.
</div>

In other words, [chuckling] everything you thought you&rsquo;ve been
being is something that never happened, as we discussed last week.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Atonement offers you God.
</div>

Well &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Atonement offers you God.
</div>

The Atonement offers you truth. The Atonement offers you Reality,
Atonement offers you Heaven&mdash;the awareness of all of Creation
without any separation from any of it, where you experience all Knowing.
It doesn&rsquo;t offer you this thing that you have birthed out of a
primordial expression or assertion of an original idea or thought that
you used to establish yourself as a valid presence.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Atonement offers you God.
</div>

It does not offer you, [chuckling] it does not offer you what
you&rsquo;ve been having, and what you&rsquo;ve been suffering from.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The gift which you refused is held by Him in you. His Spirit holds it
there for you.
</div>

I&rsquo;ve said in the past, &ldquo;Your divinity is held in trust while
you dally with the ego.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The gift which you refused &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; which is Heaven, the conscious awareness of all of Reality
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is held by Him &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in other words, your right Mind &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is held by Him in you. His Spirit holds it there for you. God
has not left His altar, though His worshippers placed other gods upon
it.
</div>

You&rsquo;ve placed your fantastic, in other words, fantasy- like
creations, all of your thoughts, all of your definitions, all of your
mutually agreed upon concepts and so on, you have placed on the
altar&mdash;cluttered it up, as it were, with distractions that never
really took up any space because they&rsquo;re not Real. But you put
them there.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God has not left His altar, though His worshippers placed other gods
upon it. The temple still is holy&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; [whispering] you still are holy &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; for the Presence that dwells within it IS holiness.
</div>

The presence of what? The presence of the conscious awareness of Being
that is You.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In the temple holiness waits quietly for the return of them that love
it.
</div>

When you begin to love it, when you begin to get tired of what
you&rsquo;re birthing, you will return, and it waits for you. Your
holiness waits for you&mdash;that which is nothing more than your right
Mind awaits your return to its embrace.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Presence knows they will return to purity and to grace.
</div>

Listen to this, remember it:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The graciousness of God will take them gently in, and cover all their
sense of pain and loss with the immortal assurance of their Father's
Love.
</div>

Cover all their sense of pain and loss of what? Oh-h, all of your
cherished thoughts by means of which you&rsquo;ve given meaning to your
life and to yourself. In fact, you haven&rsquo;t just given meaning to
life and to yourself, those thoughts were used to birth you. And if you
think you&rsquo;ve done a pretty good job of it, you&rsquo;re likely to
experience a sense of loss as you let go of it because something in you
is daring to prefer what you&rsquo;re coming to know is a truer
experience, a fuller, a more enjoyable, a holier experience of what your
Being is all about.

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The graciousness of God will take them &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; gently in, and cover all their sense of pain &hellip;
</div>

all your sense of pain &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and loss with the immortal assurance of their Father's Love.
</div>

&hellip; your Father&rsquo;s Love.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There, fear of death will be replaced with joy of living. For God is
Life, and they ABIDE in Life.
</div>

No longer in this sense of life that you&rsquo;ve birthed, this
imaginary sense of life that you&rsquo;ve birthed.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Presence of holiness lives in everything that lives, for holiness
CREATED life, and leaves not what It created holy as Itself.
</div>

So, I want you to be with this for the coming week. I want you to dare
to allow for the idea that thinking is not ever valuable, that listening
is. And that your Salvation lies in getting back to the place before the
thoughts emerge, so that you might stop creating yourself by asserting
yourself and ending up with an illusion.

And I look forward to being with you next week. And I look forward to
the discoveries you will be having. I love you all.

[^1]: T14.3 Perception without Deceit

