---
title: Jul 27, 2008
ref: "T14.4 The Recognition of Holiness"
alink: "/acim/text/14/chap1404/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

You know, as you engage in Awakening by desiring to experience whatever
that means, you are going to find that your purpose for being is
different from what you thought. And if you aren&rsquo;t expecting that,
it might be a surprise that doesn&rsquo;t please you. But I want you to
be aware that, that&rsquo;s the case so that you can abide with the
unavoidability of it and adjust more gracefully. You&rsquo;re here
actually, to be far more than you thought.

We talked last week about the fact that you&rsquo;re not used to
thinking of yourself as being holy. And this week we&rsquo;re going to
talk a little bit about what being holy means. And in this sense, you
will begin to see that there is a difference between your purpose as it
truly is, and what you have for the last years during this lifetime, you
thought your purpose was.

Now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In this world &hellip;[^1]
</div>

&hellip; not in the world to come &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In this world &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in this experience of world&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you can become a spotless mirror, in which the holiness of your
Creator shines forth from you to all around you.
</div>

That&rsquo;s a glorious purpose of being. [chuckle]

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In this world you can become a spotless mirror, in which the holiness of
your Creator shines forth from you to all around you. You can reflect
Heaven HERE.
</div>

Well, what did we say last week that Heaven was?

Heaven is awareness. Awareness that is not distorted by or colored by
thoughts occupying awareness that do not reflect reality, that do not
reflect the truth, that do not reflect your function.

So, you can reflect Heaven here. You can be that undistorted pure
conscious awareness of reality as it is right here, not in the
sweet-bye-and-bye after you die. Your function has always been to be
conscious of the truth here, now, as you put it, in this lifetime. This
lifetime is just eternity imagined as something having a beginning and
an end&mdash;a birth and an up-coming death.

But, as you make this shift of consciousness, called Awakening,
you&rsquo;ll find that the experience of birth will disappear. It will
not be a part of your memory. And an impending death will also
disappear. And you will remember wholeness. You will remember eternity,
if I may put it that way. And you will not labor under a false
impression that there are beginnings and endings.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You can reflect Heaven HERE. Yet no reflections of the images of other
gods must dim the mirror that would hold God&rsquo;s reflection in it.
</div>

Well &hellip; the reflections of the images of other gods &hellip;
[chuckling] it&rsquo;s a nice poetic way of speaking about your
thoughts. All the thinking that you have done, all of the imaginative
intellectual creativity you have gone through which you have placed upon
the altar in you, which you have filled your awareness with and
preoccupied yourself with.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet no reflections of the images of other gods must dim the mirror that
would hold God&rsquo;s reflection in it. Earth can reflect Heaven or
hell; God or the ego.
</div>

There it is right there. Heaven is God. Heaven is equated with God.
Heaven is equated with first gear&mdash;you in your right Mind.

Hell is the equivalent of second gear, where you have engaged in this
self-assertion that brought you into existence as a concept you had of
yourself that you insisted in bringing into manifestation&mdash;into
recognizability. That&rsquo;s all there is to Hell. All there is to Hell
is your mind cluttered up with your thinking&mdash;cluttered up with
your preoccupation with what you have created out of pure imagination.
Of course, all you could create through the use of your mind would have
been a distorted perception of that which already existed of Creation
Itself.

So Hell is nothing more than your active misperception of Heaven right
here and right now. It&rsquo;s not another place, it&rsquo;s not a place
you go to. It is you insisting on defining Creation, Heaven, in your own
terms and getting others to join you in agreement as to what those terms
mean.

So Hell is an ongoing constantly re-energized misperception of the
Kingdom of Heaven. You could say, it&rsquo;s a distortion of that pure
awareness which is your mind, which is God&rsquo;s Mind Presencing
Itself right there where you are, as all there is of you. That&rsquo;s
Heaven.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You need but leave the mirror clean and clear of all the images of
hidden darkness you have drawn upon it.
</div>

Hidden darkness &hellip; Well, when you say, &ldquo;I am going to
determine that this is such and such,&rdquo; and you make a definition
and you say from now on that is what I have determined it to be and I
will govern myself according to that definition. Now what has happened?
You have obscured the Real thing by replacing it in your mind with a
dominant misperception, which you love because you created it.

Now, what has replaced Reality is a fuzziness, as we discussed&mdash;an
out-of-focus experience. It&rsquo;s not illuminated. It is dark in that
it is fuzzy and it is hard to determine what is really there.

So when it refers to hidden darkness, it&rsquo;s darkness that you
can&rsquo;t actually put your finger on. It&rsquo;s darkness that is
hidden because there&rsquo;s no truth to it.

Your imaginations are constituted of hidden darknesses. Darknesses that
tend to obscure something underneath it&mdash;something behind it. The
Truth.

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You need but leave the mirror clean and clear of all the images of
hidden darkness you have drawn upon it.
</div>

How do you clean it &hellip; how do you clear it? By not thinking. You
clean it or clear it by meditating, by becoming still&mdash;providing
yourself with a gentle focus and staying with that without engaging in
thinking so that your mind becomes free of thoughts. That&rsquo;s how
you clear the mirror. That&rsquo;s how you cease to introduce illusion.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God will shine upon it of Himself.
</div>

God will shine upon the mirror. God is shining upon the mirror even
though your thoughts are obscuring what&rsquo;s shining on the mirror
truly. God is shining upon the mirror.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God will shine upon it of Himself. Only the clear reflection of Himself
can BE perceived upon it.
</div>

You see. Your hidden darknesses can&rsquo;t really be perceived on it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Reflections are seen in light.
</div>

Simple.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In darkness they are obscure, and their meaning seems to lie only in
shifting interpretations, rather than in themselves.
</div>

You see, God&rsquo;s thoughts reflected on the mirror are themselves the
Real thing. They&rsquo;re not concepts of the Real thing applied to the
Real thing after the fact.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The reflection of God NEEDS no interpretation. It is CLEAR. Clean but
the mirror&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; again, by ceasing thinking.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Clean but the mirror, and the message which shines forth from what the
mirror holds out for everyone to see no-one can FAIL to understand.
</div>

This is your function. Your function is to value the silence, to value
the absence of your thinking enough to abandon the thinking so that you
might find yourself in the silence, which could be equated with the
clean mirror in which that which is Real is being reflected and because
there is now nothing to obscure what is Real that is being reflected,
you can see it. What is Real becomes your experience. And when what is
Real becomes your experience, That becomes what you express. That
becomes what you communicate: The message on the mirror &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is the message that the Holy Spirit is holding to the mirror that is
in him.
</div>

&hellip; the one who is looking for truth.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He recognizes it &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the seeker &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; because he has been taught his NEED for it&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; I am teaching you of your need for it. Your suffering
experience is teaching you the need for it. You will recognize it
because you have been taught your need for it &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; but knows not where to look to find it.
</div>

What it actually says is &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He recognizes it because he has been taught his NEED for it but knows
not where to look to find it. Let him then see It in YOU and SHARE it
with you.
</div>

Let the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; see it in YOU and SHARE it with you.
</div>

&hellip; because that is the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s function, and that is
the way you come back into your right Mind. But again, in order to
experience this influx of revelation you must de-value your capacity
&hellip; your so-called capacity to think. And you must abandon
practicing it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Could you but realize, for a single instant, the power of healing that
the reflection of God, shining in you, can bring to all the world, you
could not wait to make the mirror of your mind clean to receive the
image of the holiness that heals the world.
</div>

You hear that?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Could you but realize, for a single instant&hellip;
</div>

It implies that you can&rsquo;t, or you aren&rsquo;t. But if you could
realize it, blah, blah, blah, such-and-such would happen, you would
discover such-and-such. Well, what is it that keeps you from realizing
it? Because certainly the Father has not given you a purpose that
you&rsquo;re incapable of fulfilling.

What keeps you from realizing it for a single instant, even, is that you
do not want to abandon authority that you think you have and which you
value highly. It&rsquo;s that simple.

If you&rsquo;re going to wake up, you&rsquo;re going to first of all
say, &ldquo;Father,&rdquo; and break the silence&mdash;break your
autonomy&mdash;and then you&rsquo;re going to say, &ldquo;Father,&rdquo;
acknowledging your Sonship or Daughtership, &ldquo;Thy will be done. Thy
will, not mine be done.&rdquo; [Whispering] Nobody wants to do that! Oh,
a lot of people give lip service to it, but very few of you are willing
even for a moment to say, &ldquo;Thy will be done,&rdquo; and then want
to know what the Father&rsquo;s will is. In other words, to know what
the Movement of Creation is in this moment aside from the definitions
and meanings you&rsquo;ve been giving to it all.

You see, you thought your purpose was to be the determiner in this life
and to learn to be the determiner of things well, or if not well, at
least with enough force that people will yield.

Somewhere along the line, hopefully without too great suffering,
you&rsquo;re going to have to arrive at the place where you&rsquo;re
willing to say, &ldquo;Father, Thy will be done.&rdquo; You&rsquo;re
going to have to arrive at a place where you&rsquo;re willing to explore
what that might mean, because nothing else holds as much interest for
you. You&rsquo;ve got to arrive at that point.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Could you but realize, for a single instant, the power of healing that
the reflection of God, shining in you, can bring to all the world, you
could not wait to make the mirror of your mind clean to receive the
image of the holiness that heals the world.
</div>

Now, what I want to convey here is, that what keeps you from having this
experience is something that you value greatly, but it isn&rsquo;t
really that big a thing to abandon. To abandon willfulness, to abandon
that exertion of energy to bring into existence the you, you want
everybody to believe you are, must simply be abandoned. Stop doing it!
Stop doing it for a minute. Stop doing it for a second with true
abandonment. You can do it. It&rsquo;s just that you didn&rsquo;t think
that was what you needed to do. You didn&rsquo;t think that was part of
the program, because you thought the opposite was the
&ldquo;God-almighty purpose of being.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The image of holiness which shines in your mind is not obscure, and
will not change.
</div>

You may have obscured it with your fanciful thoughts. But it &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is not obscure, and will not change. Its meaning to those who
look upon it is not obscure, for everyone perceives it as the SAME. All
bring their different problems to its healing light, but all their
problems are met ONLY with healing there.
</div>

And I promise you, that when someone comes to you and does not
experience healing it&rsquo;s because you have indeed chosen to respond
to them with your best concepts, with your best interpretations, with
your best beliefs about how things work, and you have not taken a moment
to say, &ldquo;Father? Aside from what I think, and aside from what this
person thinks, what is the truth here? What is Heaven here?&rdquo; If
you will not try to answer that question yourself, and if you will leave
your mind silent and attentive as pure awareness, you will see
what&rsquo;s on the mirror. You will see what is not obscure because you
will have stopped obscuring it. And when you speak, what you see there
will be healing.

That&rsquo;s your Birthright. That&rsquo;s what it&rsquo;s time for all
of you to begin experiencing, again.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The response of holiness to ANY form of error is always the same.
</div>

It&rsquo;s that which comes from the pure awareness that no one has
altered and distorted away from its perfect, I&rsquo;m going to say,
perception and experience of Heaven, of Reality.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The response of holiness to ANY form of error is always the same.
</div>

And that&rsquo;s it!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is no contradiction in what holiness calls forth. Its ONE response
is healing, without regard for what is brought to it.
</div>

Just as there&rsquo;s no degree of difficulty to miracles, there&rsquo;s
no degree of horribleness or actuality to illusions. So no matter what
illusion is brought, the response is always the same. It&rsquo;s not a
response to the illusion, it&rsquo;s a response from that pure awareness
that has looked upon Reality in the absence of thinking, because there
was a love for truth. It&rsquo;s that simple.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Those who have learned to offer only healing because of the reflection
of holiness in them are ready at last for Heaven.
</div>

Are ready at last for that experience of pure awareness in which there
is no distortion present whatsoever.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There, holiness is not a reflection, but rather the actual condition of
what was but reflected to them here.
</div>

You see, the message isn&rsquo;t the concept, the message isn&rsquo;t an
interpretation, the message isn&rsquo;t a perception. The message is the
Real thing Itself, shared so clearly that it&rsquo;s obvious to everyone
it&rsquo;s shared with.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God is no image, and His creations, as part of Him, hold Him in them in
truth. They do not merely REFLECT truth, for they ARE truth.
</div>

You see, the Kingdom of Heaven that I&rsquo;ve been saying you are
confronted with at all times, because there literally is nothing going
on other than the Kingdom of Heaven, is truth Itself, is Real Itself, is
God Presencing Himself not as a concept or an object or an image, but as
Himself.

Reality is what you are confronted with in every single experience
you&rsquo;re having. But you are experiencing It in a distorted fashion,
because you have this unquenchable desire to be original and to make
your mark on life, not realizing that you are Life unfolding Itself
right there where you are. You see, there&rsquo;s where the problem
comes into play because you don&rsquo;t want to be Life unfolding
Itself, you want to be the unfolder. You don&rsquo;t want to yield and
be what the Father is Being right there where you are. You don&rsquo;t
want to fit in. You don&rsquo;t want to flow with. You don&rsquo;t want
to be in consummate utter harmony with the Universe in its infinite
unfolding. And that&rsquo;s why the &ldquo;primal scream&rdquo; comes
out because you want to stand out from the rest. And you think
that&rsquo;s the way you bring yourself into existence.

&ldquo;Hey everyone look at me, look at me. Don&rsquo;t look at
everything. Abandon your infinite experience of Reality and have a tiny
experience of me separate from everything else, and by doing that
separate yourself from everything else.&rdquo; You see? This forceful
self-expression that you exercise in order to stand out from what God is
infinitely Being is creating for you a life full of stress, full of
thrills, full of fearful things, full of exciting things. But no peace,
no absence of sin, sickness or death, no unchangeable harmony and no
real experience of joy. And it&rsquo;s not your Birthright.

The next section is called:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*The Shift to Miracles*

When no perception &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in other words, no thought that you&rsquo;ve made up &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When no perception stands between God and His creations, or between His
Children and their own, the knowledge of creation must continue forever.
The reflections which you accept into the mirror of your minds in time
but bring eternity nearer or farther.
</div>

What&rsquo;s the source of the thoughts you&rsquo;re letting in? Are you
going to be the creator of your thoughts, or are you going to let
God&rsquo;s thoughts fill you. One will bring Eternity nearer, the other
will make It further away.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
But eternity itself is beyond ALL time. Reach out of time and touch it,
with the help of its reflection in you. And you will turn from time to
holiness as surely as the reflection of holiness calls everyone to lay
all guilt aside.
</div>

Important:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Reach out of time and touch it&hellip;
</div>

If you&rsquo;re going to reach out of time, you&rsquo;re going to have
to let go of your anchor in time. And your anchor in time is your belief
in and exercise of control or authority to create whatever you can
imagine through the use of your mind, called &ldquo;thinking.&rdquo; But
you don&rsquo;t want to suffer. And you say you do want to wake up, so
you&rsquo;re going to have to dare to reach out of time. You&rsquo;re
going to have to stop doing what creates time. And what creates time is
thinking.

I&rsquo;m being facetious here, but stop and think about it. When you
think it takes time &hellip; if you experience a revelation, you
experience a whole awareness of something, which if you try to express
it in words will take time, even though the experience that is being
described in time, with words, was experienced [snaps fingers]
instantaneously, wholly and completely.

There is so much advantage available to you, to all of you, if you will
truly begin to stop thinking. If you will truly take more time to
listen, take more time to be silent and receptive to information,
experiences that you did not make up or create.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Reflect the peace of Heaven HERE&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; now remember Heaven is not a place&mdash;unless, by Heaven you
mean everywhere. Heaven is that conscious awareness which is not
distorted by, or confused by, or obscured by spurious, imaginative
thoughts. That&rsquo;s Heaven.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Reflect the peace of Heaven HERE, and bring this world to Heaven.
</div>

That&rsquo;s why I say, whatever you&rsquo;re looking at be curious as
to what the more of God is there than what you&rsquo;re seeing, what
more of Reality is occurring than what you&rsquo;re seeing. That&rsquo;s
the way you bring this world to Heaven. You ask to see more of the
flower, or more of what the glass is, or more of what the fingernail
is&mdash;divinely speaking.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Reflect the peace of Heaven HERE, and bring this world to Heaven. For
the reflection of truth draws everyone TO truth, and as they enter into
it they leave all reflections behind.
</div>

You stand in front of a mirror, there is a reflection of you, but the
you that is looking in the mirror is Real. When you want to know what
truth is, you&rsquo;re desiring to experience what is Real, not an image
of it, not an approximation of it, not a reflection of it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In Heaven reality is shared, and not reflected &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; because you&rsquo;re not looking at a concept. You&rsquo;re not
experiencing a picture in your mind of what that thing means. You are
experiencing that thing in its actuality, in its reality. It&rsquo;s a
direct experience.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In Heaven reality is shared, and not reflected. By sharing its
reflection here, its truth becomes the only perception the Son of God
accepts.
</div>

That&rsquo;s you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And thus, remembrance of his Father dawns on him, and he can no longer
be satisfied with anything but his own reality.
</div>

When you&rsquo;re willing to look at your world with a desire to know
and experience the more of Reality that is there than what you are
experiencing, you are inviting in an experience of and letting yourself
into an experience of God in everything. And in that experience of
God&mdash;your Father&mdash;you remember your Sonship or Daughtership,
your Birthright.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And thus, remembrance of his Father &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your Father &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; dawns on him&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and he &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; can no longer be satisfied with anything but his &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; or your &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; own reality.
</div>

Your own reality as the non-thinker that you are. Your own reality as
the pure conscious awareness that knows all as a direct experience, not
as a thought about an experience or a thought about a thing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You on earth have no conception of limitlessness, for the world you seem
to live in IS a world of limits. In this world, it is not true that
anything without order of difficulty can occur.
</div>

When you&rsquo;re looking at everything from second gear, there are
orders of difficulties, there are no miracles and you&rsquo;re without
your Birthright.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The miracle, therefore, has a unique function, and is motivated by a
unique Teacher&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; this means a real miracle.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The miracle, therefore, has a unique function, and is motivated by a
unique Teacher, Who brings the laws of another world to this one.
</div>

Now, it isn&rsquo;t that there really are two worlds. It&rsquo;s that in
your mind you have created a definition of Reality, of Heaven, and that
definition is a misper-ception of Reality. And you abide in, and live
in, and act in, and govern yourself according to this misperception. And
part of this misperception is that there is order of difficulty. And
part of the reality of this misperception is that there are no miracles.
This misperception because it&rsquo;s embraced as though it&rsquo;s
actual, can only be interrupted or rendered invalid by something
entering it from somewhere outside the definitions. In other words, by
Reality.

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The miracle, therefore, has a unique function, and is motivated by a
unique Teacher, Who brings the laws of another world to this one.
</div>

In other words, the world of Reality to the world you made up.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The miracle is the ONE thing you can do that transcends order, being
based not on differences, but on equality.

&hellip; transcends order &hellip;
</div>

What that means is, it&rsquo;s the one thing that can transcend the
orderliness of your self-created mindsets, of your definitions that you
govern yourself absolutely by.

The miracle doesn&rsquo;t fit into your rules. The miracle doesn&rsquo;t
fit into your structures. Your structures say miracles can&rsquo;t
happen. When a miracle happens you&rsquo;ve lost control. It&rsquo;s
that simple. You abandoned your authority for whatever reason. You let
yourself fit in, instead of authorizing. You let yourself fit into the
order of another world, the perfection of another world, the harmony of
another world, of the Kingdom of Heaven that you have obscured by
creating a misperception of it, but which you haven&rsquo;t gotten rid
of.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Miracles are not in competition, and the number of them that you can do
is limitless.
</div>

Wow, your willingness to abandon thinking and to go into the silence,
your willingness to be in-filled with what is really present in place of
what you have made up and governed yourself by, puts you in a position
of having revelation occur over and over and over and over again
&hellip; about this thing and that thing and the other thing &hellip;
and this one and that one and the other person &hellip; and this
one&rsquo;s belief and that one&rsquo;s belief and this one&rsquo;s
problem and that one&rsquo;s joy. The opportunity for miracles is as
abundant as your connection with everything that you have been
misperceiving. And as the misperception yields to the direct experience
of truth of what it Really is, that is a miracle.

It is a miracle that transcends the rules of the world you have made up
by means of your definitions. And when that happens it means
you&rsquo;re not in control. And I keep bringing that up because this is
part of your Birthright&mdash;to be experiencing the perfection of
everything when you&rsquo;re not in control, when you&rsquo;re not
securely seated in second gear.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Miracles are not in competition, and the number of them that you can do
is limitless. They can be simultaneous and legion.
</div>

Doesn&rsquo;t have to be one at a time. It can be ten thousand at a
time.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is not difficult to understand, once you conceive of them as
possible at all.
</div>

Thank God, reality, and miracles, and the truth cannot be bound by all
the &ldquo;chicken-shit&rdquo; little rules that you have made up and
governed yourself by. Thank God! Thank God, because your bondage is not
absolute or even actual.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Miracles are not in competition, and the number of them that you can do
is limitless. They can be simultaneous and legion. This is not difficult
to understand, once you conceive of them as possible at all. What IS
more difficult to grasp is the lack of order of difficulty which stamps
the miracle as something that must come from elsewhere, not from here.
</div>

[Chuckling] The only thing that can come from here is something
you&rsquo;ve made up, and something that you have given the
&ldquo;primal scream&rdquo; to actualize. That&rsquo;s the only thing
that can come from here. Have you had enough of it? Would you like some
refreshing experiences?

A miracle must come from elsewhere &hellip; some place other than your
thinking. And it will come from the silence in you, which, if you will
access it, you will find is the mirror on which God reflects Himself,
Creation.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What IS more difficult to grasp is the lack of order of difficulty which
stamps the miracle as something that must come from elsewhere, not from
here. From the world's viewpoint, this is impossible.
</div>

What that means is, that from the viewpoint of the rules you made up and
the definitions of the world and universe that you abide by, that
anything can come from elsewhere has to be impossible. Again, thank God,
it&rsquo;s not.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have experienced lack of competition among your thoughts, which,
even though they may conflict, can occur to you together and in great
numbers. You are so used to this that it can cause you little surprise.

Yet you are also used to classifying some of your thoughts as more
important, larger or better, wiser or more productive and valuable than
others. And this is true about the thoughts which cross the mind of
those who think they live apart.
</div>

You know, in second gear, in the orphanage.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For some are reflections of Heaven, while others are motivated by the
ego, which but SEEMS to think.
</div>

You see &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; SEEMS to think.
</div>

Thinking is one of those things that never happened. It just seems to
have happened. Well, according to your current mindsets, that&rsquo;s
one of the things that has to be impossible. But it&rsquo;s not!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The result [however] &hellip;
</div>

I&rsquo;m adding the word &ldquo;however.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The result [however] is a weaving, changing pattern which never rests,
and is never still. It shifts unceasingly across the mirror of your
mind, and the reflections of Heaven last but a moment, and grow dim as
darkness blots them out. Where there was light darkness removes it in an
instant, and alternating patterns of light and darkness sweep constantly
across your minds.
</div>

That&rsquo;s life. That&rsquo;s what you&rsquo;ve been experiencing
&hellip; you unholy ones. But you are holy and therefore you&rsquo;re
not bound, therefore your Birthright is available to you the moment you
genuinely and simply abandon your devotion to thinking. Spend more time
listening. Be silent more often during your day. It&rsquo;s not
necessary to always be thinking or saying something.

Remember that when you&rsquo;re willing to become still, you&rsquo;re
cleaning the mirror. And what God is already reflecting on the mirror
can register with you. It&rsquo;s spontaneous. It&rsquo;s automatic.
It&rsquo;s unavoidable. So do it!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The little sanity which still remains &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in the face of this shifting patterns of darkness and light
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is held together by a sense of order which YOU establish.
</div>

See, there&rsquo;s still the &ldquo;primordial scream,&rdquo; the
assertion to maintain that little bit of sanity.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet the very fact that you can DO this and bring ANY order into chaos
shows you that you are not an ego, and that more than an ego MUST be in
you. For the ego IS chaos, and if it were all of you no order at all
would be possible.
</div>

Now, as you enter this coming week I encourage you to invite in
revelation, I encourage you to invite in what you haven&rsquo;t thought
about &hellip; what you haven&rsquo;t thought up. And I encourage you to
realize that as you let something new actually happen&mdash;something
that you are not generating&mdash;it will be accompanied by a feeling of
loss of control, of loss of authority. It will seem that you are having
to abandon the self-assertion that makes you stand out and truly exist.
Let that happen! Let that happen!

Chaos will not be the result of your setting the order of everything.
Orderliness, harmony will result when you yield into and allow yourself
to fit in with everything and let the movement of everything dictate
your appropriate behavior&mdash;how to be&mdash;so that you are
participating in the Movement of Creation cooperatively. And
that&rsquo;s where the absence of vulnerability enters your experience,
and peace and love and joy and on and on.

Again, remember all of this is going to uncover a purpose for being that
you did not make up and that you were not expecting to have unfold in
you and change you. Let it happen! Let it happen! Let go of your
authority!

Okay, I look forward to being with you next week. And I love you all.

[^1]: T14.4 The Recognition of Holiness

