---
title: Aug 17, 2008
ref: "T14.5 The Shift to Miracles"
alink: "/acim/text/14/chap1405/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

Well, establishing order is pretty much the order of the day isn&rsquo;t
it, every day, because without the establishment of order, nothing will
work out right. You won&rsquo;t be where you need to be when you need to
be. You will not be able to coordinate behavior, activities,
appointments, etc., etc. And mostly, you won&rsquo;t be able to protect
yourself, because of course, life is threatening, life is divided, life
is unsafe.

So, because you all value order and because you all believe that order
must be established by you, you very seldom, as the saying goes,
&ldquo;Let go and let God.&rdquo;

When you are experiencing inner turmoil, dissonance, fear, worry, you
can count on it that it is because you have made an assessment of your
environment&mdash;of your life&mdash;that has concluded that there is
danger of one sort or another, to one degree or another. And further, I
promise you that you can assume that you have already engaged in the
practice of control&mdash;the practice of establishing order.

If you are experiencing dissonance, you are already unjoined, you are
already feeling your isolation, your scary independence as an orphan.
And you&rsquo;re not doing anything to object to and undo this state of
orphanhood, which is the one thing that would establish order, although
not order by your hand.

Interestingly enough, if you&rsquo;re in your peace, if you&rsquo;re on
vacation at the beach and you&rsquo;re relaxed, it&rsquo;s relatively
easy for you to let go. It&rsquo;s relatively easy for you not to be
holding yourself in a state of readiness to take hold if the occasion
calls for it. And in that space, you are able to feel your peace and
good things are able to happen spontaneously&mdash;not at your hand.
You love to go on a vacation because the unexpected meets you. Well, the
unexpected would meet you every single day if you didn&rsquo;t abandon
your peace.

The very circumstances where your peace is needed, the very
circumstances where the correction to this inner turmoil needs to occur
is primarily when you become involved with each other. Like I said, if
you&rsquo;re on a beach enjoying the sunshine, not knowing anyone around
you, you feel safe. You feel relaxed. You enjoy yourself. The experience
of joy can penetrate.

But when you become involved with each other, you immediately become
defensive. You immediately become self-protective. And those are the
places, those are the times where the practice of the two-step is
essential&mdash;where, instead of spontaneously responding with old
habits, you stop, you hesitate, (that&rsquo;s the first step of the
two-step) and you ask, you enquire. You say, &ldquo;Father&rdquo; or you
say, &ldquo;Holy Spirit&rdquo; or you say, &ldquo;That which is nothing
more than my right Mind, what needs to be known here? What is the next
step? What is the appropriate response? What allows me to be out from
the excellence that is in the middle of me? What allows excellence to
manifest in my relationships where I feel a spontaneous call for
self-defense or at least a readiness for self-protection?&rdquo;

Because you tend to feel unsafe with each other, you tend to forget that
you&rsquo;re not an orphan. You tend to forget that you do not have to
be with your brothers or sisters alone, autonomously. These are the times to remember to bring God along with you.
What does that mean? Does that mean that you&rsquo;re going to have the
power of the Universe standing with you and behind you in anything you
do? No. [chuckles] It means that you are willing to be present in a
situation or in the relationship without claiming private autonomous
status, which includes a feeling of vulnerability and habits of
self-protection.

It means being willing to stand with your brother knowing or remembering
who you Are by remembering to let God be Present with you. By letting
God be Present with you, you are saying, &ldquo;I am the Son or Daughter
of God. I am not an orphan. I am not here alone. And it&rsquo;s not only
my Birthright but it&rsquo;s my very nature to behave in a manner that
will, in biblical terms, glorify God,&rdquo; which means, that will
identify the perfection of Being in this circumstance or in this
relationship that will manifest as healing, if healing is called for.

You see? That&rsquo;s what it means to go into relationship with God. It
means to be present with the willingness to let your mind be free of
your misperceptions, to let your mind be free of your theories and your
confidences about how things work that you have made up. It means being
willing to be in the circumstance or in the relationship with
innocence&mdash;fresh awareness&mdash;fresh eyes, a capacity to see what
is truly Present and not get sidetracked by what you believe is present.

Being &hellip; Being Itself is orderly. Its order escapes you when you
operate on the basis of a belief that existence&mdash;life&mdash;is
polarized and is in a constant state of tension, where the two poles
constantly pull against each other almost in an attempt to undo each
other so there is, what could be called, a constant battle.

But it isn&rsquo;t true. That is not the way Being is. And so,
everything that we&rsquo;re talking about, everything that we have been
talking about is to be brought into play right in the places where, out
of habit, you are not inclined to let go of the attempt to establish
order by hesitating and then refusing to act autonomously as though you
had an actual capacity to act separate from your Source. You see?

And so, in a sense it&rsquo;s not easy. As you go through your day, you
go through all the situations which call into play your well-established
habits of self-protection and you forget that you don&rsquo;t have to
play out those habits. You don&rsquo;t have to play out those habits and
thereby incarcerate yourself in all of the emotions and all of the
assumptions that automatically come into play that bind you and convince
you that your bondage is legitimate.

Bondage &hellip; I&rsquo;m not talking about being tied up. I&rsquo;m
talking about becoming so preoccupied with your habits, so enamored of
them, that you forget that they are just patterns of behavior that you
don&rsquo;t have to engage in, patterns that could be replaced by other
patterns or could be replaced by your letting yourself into the
patternlessness of Being that doesn&rsquo;t function on the basis of
patterns but functions on the basis of the movement of creativity, which
arises out of purity, which causes what comes forth to be absolutely and
forever original. That&rsquo;s what it means.

Waking up is a matter of cutting through habits, remembering that you
don&rsquo;t have to go down this road&mdash;this pattern&mdash;that
you&rsquo;ve gone down so many times before. And not only can you be
free of that pattern, you can be free, like I said, of all of the
associated thoughts and feelings that seem to confirm the rightness of
your being on that path, going through that habit again and again and
again.

Now, I&rsquo;m going to back up a little. I&rsquo;m going to back up a 
whole paragraph.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet you are also used to classifying some of your thoughts as more
important, larger or better, wiser or more productive and valuable than
others. And this is true about the thoughts which cross the mind of
those who think they live apart. For some are reflections of Heaven,
while others are motivated by the ego, which but SEEMS to think. The
result is a weaving, changing pattern which never rests, and is never
still. It shifts unceasingly across the mirror of your mind, and the
reflections of Heaven last but a moment, and grow dim as darkness blots
them out. Where there was light darkness removes it in an instant, and
alternating patterns of light and darkness sweep constantly across your
minds.[^1]
</div>

That would describe your days wouldn&rsquo;t it? Moments of lucidity and
moments of insanity. And more moments of insanity than lucidity. And
it&rsquo;s confusing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The little sanity which still remains is held together by a sense of
order which YOU establish. Yet the very fact that you can DO this and
bring ANY order into chaos shows you that you are not an ego, and that
more than an ego MUST be in you.
</div>

Why? Well &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For the ego IS chaos, and if it were all of you, no order at all would
be possible. Yet though the order which you impose upon your minds
limits the ego, it ALSO limits YOU.
</div>

And that&rsquo;s the thing that&rsquo;s difficult to grasp. That&rsquo;s
the thing you don&rsquo;t really want to grasp because you think that if
you grasp it and behave according to what it means, you will become
vulnerable.

But again&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; though the order which you impose upon your minds limits the
ego, it ALSO limits YOU.
</div>

In other words, it isn&rsquo;t actually the answer to the problem.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To order is to judge, and to arrange BY judgment.
</div>

You see, if you&rsquo;re going to establish order, you have to have a
context of measurement so that you can easily determine what order is
and what chaos is.

Now, if order is the nature of Being Itself, then it is absolute and all
inclusive and there cannot be gradations of any sort from chaos to
order. So, if you have some sort of a measuring stick that you&rsquo;re
using, that you&rsquo;re applying to a situation in order to bring
correction to the situation and establish order, you are having to use a
measuring system that you have made up out of whole cloth, out of pure
imagination that actually bears no relevance whatsoever to Being
Itself&mdash;the state of existing.

Can you see that if you&rsquo;re using something to establish order that
bears no relevance whatsoever to anything actual, you&rsquo;re
accomplishing nothing? You are engaging in something that is not the
answer. And that&rsquo;s the thing that needs to be realized, that
nobody wants to realize and yet it is what will bring you the
relief&mdash;the Awakening&mdash;the Atonement that you wish.

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To order is to judge, and to arrange BY judgment. It will seem difficult
for you to learn that you have no basis AT ALL for ordering your
thoughts.
</div>

True. You have no basis AT ALL &hellip; AT ALL for ordering your
thoughts. It&rsquo;s a useless expenditure of energy. It&rsquo;s one of
those things, that after you wake up you will discover never happened.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It will seem difficult for you to learn that you have no basis AT ALL
for ordering your thoughts. This lesson the Holy Spirit teaches by
giving you shining examples to show you that your way of ordering is
wrong, but that a better way is offered you.
</div>

Now, the Holy Spirit teaches you this lesson. It is Its task to reveal
to you those things which have no part in you, actually. Those things
which are valueless and useless and your realization of their
valuelessness and uselessness will be what will allow you to release
them, to let them go and not practice them anymore. But you will have to
be willing to listen to make the lesson easier. That&rsquo;s the key.

If you want the lesson to be easier, if you want to learn more
gracefully, then invite the education. Don&rsquo;t force the education
by kicking against the pricks. Don&rsquo;t force the education by doing
something that is inevitably going to be uncomfortable. Because one way
or another, you have to come to the realization that doing what
doesn&rsquo;t work is useless. And uncomfortableness conveys that
message real well.

The only thing is, that many of you are bull-headed. And when you have
this learning presented to you, that what you&rsquo;re doing
doesn&rsquo;t work and it&rsquo;s causing discomfort, you say,
&ldquo;Ah-h, here is my opportunity to prove my strength, here is the
opportunity for me to exercise my control more efficiently than I have
been so that I can overcome the discomfort because of course, the
discomfort shouldn&rsquo;t be present at all, it&rsquo;s just there to
provide me with the opportunity to exercise my authority better.
It&rsquo;s giving me the practice I need to get over this
hurdle&mdash;this limitation of not seeming to be able to do this
[chuckling] without being uncomfortable. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The miracle offers exactly the same response to every call for help. It
does not judge the call. It merely recognizes what it IS, and answers
accordingly.

The miracle offers exactly the same response to every call.
</div>

The same response to every call that is a miracle, is simply you doing
the two-step, or having done the two-step, where you hesitate. You
don&rsquo;t spontaneously act based upon old habits and confidences
based from the past and an assessment of the situation using this
measuring system to determine the difference between order and chaos and
what degree of control it will take to bring it into the realm of order.

No, the miracle is what happens when you hesitate and do not act without
joining, without saying, &ldquo;Father, what needs to be known
here?&rdquo; &ldquo;Holy Spirit&mdash;that which is nothing more than my
right Mind&mdash;what&rsquo;s the reality here, because I want my
responses to be based upon what is Real and I do not want my responses
to be based upon my interpretations (worst or best) or my friends&rsquo;
interpretations (worst or best).&rdquo;

The miracle is the response that comes from the direct experience of
truth. And so, rather than there being a declarative exercise of
control, there may well be a gasp of awe or its
equivalent&mdash;something so unexpected, something so out of context
with the current mindset of the one having a problem, or the situation
that&rsquo;s presenting itself, and even your own spontaneous
assessments. It will be so different that it will catch you off guard
and you will unavoidably abandon your habitual response and joy in the
truth that you experience.

Does this mean that in the parking lot at the grocery store, where the
call came, there will be choirs of angels and hosannas and trumpets and
fan-fare? No, not likely. It&rsquo;s more likely to be a shift: A shift
of momentum, a shift of attitude, a shift of behavior, a shift of
feeling where everything turns right, where everything just melts into
an awareness of perfection and everyone moves on from that moment
blessed by it, carrying forward with them the blessing.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The miracle offers exactly the same response to every call for help. It
does not judge the call. It merely recognizes what it IS, and answers
accordingly.
</div>

What is it? It&rsquo;s a call for the two-step. It&rsquo;s a call for
checking in with God. It&rsquo;s a call for saying, &ldquo;What&rsquo;s
really going on here? What of the Kingdom of Heaven is happening right
here in front of me, aside from what I think it is?&rdquo;

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It does not judge the call. It merely recognizes what it IS, and answers
accordingly. It does not consider which call is louder or greater or
more important.
</div>

Whether it seems to be louder or greater or more important or less
important, it&rsquo;s just a call for the two-step.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You may wonder how you who are still bound to judgment can be asked to
do that which requires no judgment of your own.
</div>

See, [chuckling] the ego always wants to spontaneously and immediately
make it very complicated, &ldquo;Well, answer me this, how can I who am
still bound to judgment be asked to do that which requires no judgment
of my own? I would like to know the answer to that.&rdquo; See &hellip;
could take a day or two or ten thousand years to get a satisfactory
answer. But that&rsquo;s not the answer.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The answer is very simple. The power of God, [chuckling] and NOT of you,
engenders miracles.
</div>

Insulting isn&rsquo;t it? You see, the love of establishing order in
your world and doing it in a way that blesses everyone so fantastically
that you become the greatest figure in history, this type of mindset
finds it difficult to find value in experiencing order and harmony that
is utterly profound, that wasn&rsquo;t at your hand, that occurred
because, you might say, you let someone else do it. You let God do it.
And you were willing to say, &ldquo;God I acknowledge what the source of
the Movement of Being is, and it&rsquo;s not me. And that&rsquo;s okay
with me.&rdquo;

I&rsquo;m going to read this again:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You may wonder how you who are still bound to judgment can be asked to
do that which requires no judgment of your own. The answer is very
simple. The power of God, and NOT of you, engenders miracles. The
miracle itself is but the witness that you have the power of God in you.
</div>

See, not that you have the power of you in you, but you have the power
of God in you. Why? Because you&rsquo;ve abandoned orphanhood.
You&rsquo;ve reneged on your divorce from the Father. You&rsquo;re no
longer saying, &ldquo;But Father, I&rsquo;d rather see it my way. But
Father, I&rsquo;d rather do it my way. And I&rsquo;m going to.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The miracle itself is but the witness that you have the power of God in
you.
</div>

It&rsquo;s the witness to the fact that you did the two-step. It&rsquo;s
the witness to the fact that you did the two-step in the hardware store.
It&rsquo;s the fact that you did the two-step on the freeway, while you
were driving on the freeway. It&rsquo;s the fact that you did the
two-step when your wife said something unkind to you. It&rsquo;s the
fact that you did the two-step when you felt like being short-tempered
and justified in expressing yourself that way.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The miracle itself is but the witness that you have the power of God in
you. That is the reason why the miracle gives equal blessing to all who
share in it, and that is also why EVERYONE shares in it.
</div>

Who would withhold the blessing of a miracle? Who would be using a
measuring stick to say, &ldquo;You deserve a miracle. You don&rsquo;t
quite deserve a miracle yet, but check back with me tomorrow.&rdquo; You
see.

When the two-step happens, what follows is inevitable, what follows is
spontaneous, and what follows is always the same. It is a response that
arises out of a direct experience of Reality, whether unreality seemed
to be presenting itself or not and calling for a different response than
the two-step.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The power of God is limitless. And being always maximal, it offers
EVERYTHING to EVERY call from ANYONE. There IS no order of difficulty
here. A call for help is given help.
</div>

&hellip; except when it isn&rsquo;t given.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
A call for help is given help.
</div>

&hellip; unless in the movement of the giving of it, you say,
&ldquo;Hell no, I&rsquo;m not going to do anything for him, he
doesn&rsquo;t deserve it!&rdquo; And what you&rsquo;re saying
is&mdash;regardless of the him that doesn&rsquo;t deserve it&mdash;you
perceive &ldquo;that him&rdquo; as not deserving it, you perceive him as
having violated in some way this code that you use to determine whether
something is chaotic or orderly, whether it is acceptable or
unacceptable. And so you&rsquo;re going to be God in reverse of God,
because God always gives help, you might say, and you playing God,
always withhold help.

Hey, if you&rsquo;d rather see things your own way and you get a divorce
from the Father, then your behavior is going to automatically be unlike
the Father. Well, all it could be, would be to be the denial of the
Father.

Now mind you, keep in mind that the only thing that would keep you from
making the gift of love&mdash;which it is your function to
do&mdash;would be that through your thinking you have determined that
something other than that is appropriate. And so your thinking stands as
the culprit that obscures truth, that obscures God from you and through
you.

Now either you are stuck in a quagmire of stupidity and you&rsquo;re
going to continue to suffer from it, or you&rsquo;re not actually stuck
in it, and it&rsquo;s a matter of choice that you&rsquo;re in it. And
you can make a different choice. And I&rsquo;m calling for you to make a
different choice. The Holy Spirit&mdash;that which is nothing more than
your right Mind&mdash;is calling for you to make another choice. And
it&rsquo;s calling for you to make the choice right in the middle of
your very mundane daily activities and involvements with each other, all
of which would seem to call forth habituated responses. How can I say
that? Because your responses that you habitually give to each other are
not the same responses that Joe across the table from you gives, or Mary
down the street.

All of you are responding to your circumstances from the paradigm you
grew up in&mdash;the family attitudes, the family values. All of you
started somewhere, learning. And even if you have managed to shake off a
lot of whatever the training was, so that you weren&rsquo;t responding
to life automatically, but as a result of truly being connected with
life&hellip; the point is, that no matter how much of what you learned
has been shaken off and released. You, until you are awake and totally
free of these mental and emotional habits, are still bound by them. And
you are living out your parents and your grandparents and your
great-grandparents family-established values and systems, together with
what the pressures of society have added.

The establishment of order is, at the bottom line, what all of this
training and teaching that you got from your family and society &hellip;
again, the point is that what you&rsquo;ve learned is not of value in
waking up, because your allegiance is with the source of your training,
which leaves God out. Oh, there may be religious training that came
along with the family and God isn&rsquo;t left out of that. And there is
an understanding of God. And there is a learned behavior toward God and
learned attitudes about how to get into heaven after this life and so
on. But it&rsquo;s still all conceptual. It&rsquo;s still like book
learning.

It&rsquo;s like someone learning how to drive a car. And having found
that in order to make a left turn in the car she was in, or he was in,
you turn the wheel two and a half times to make a left turn&mdash;a
ninety degree angle. And so, that person gets into another car that has
a different steering ratio, gear ratio in the steering system, and they
go to make a left turn and do it two and a half turns and they run into
the fire hydrant because they weren&rsquo;t turning the wheel with a
connection to the actual environment. They weren&rsquo;t turning the
wheel because they were experiencing a living relationship with what was
present. They were having a relationship with an idea about how many
turns of the wheel it takes to make a car turn ninety degrees to the
left. You see?

When you&rsquo;re responding to your day with the theories and the
feelings and the emotions and the values of generations past, it&rsquo;s
not you being connected with your brother now. It&rsquo;s not you being
connected with your environment now. And I&rsquo;m going to carry it
beyond just the human sense of a relationship with someone or an
environment. You are not responding with an inquisitiveness to see and
have a clearer experience of the kingdom of heaven right now, in the
environment, in what you call the environment. You see?

Now the call is to break these habits&mdash;these habits, by means of
which you try to establish order over chaos.

I&rsquo;m going back. It will seem difficult for you to learn that you
have no basis at all for ordering your thoughts. It may be hard, but
it&rsquo;s not impossible. And it&rsquo;s what&rsquo;s got to happen.
And it&rsquo;s the whole point. And you do it by engaging in the
two-step&mdash;hesitate before you act out of habit, hesitate before you
try to establish order in a situation that doesn&rsquo;t call for order
because if you will look at the situation with innocent eyes, innocent
of your family values, and your family training, and societies training,
you will be able to see the Kingdom of Heaven there in all of its
profoundness and have an awe experience, which causes your behavior to
be entirely different. Why? Because you&rsquo;re in touch with
what&rsquo;s really going on and not trying to work on automatic.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
A call for help is given help.
</div>

A perceived lack, which is called a need, is always answered. Why?
Because the lack is a perception. The lack is a misunderstanding of
something that is whole. And when the misunderstanding is abandoned,
when it is devalued, it no longer blocks the experience of the wholeness
that was there all along. That&rsquo;s why &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
A call for help is given help.
</div>

Now, as you proceed through this week, I am going to encourage each and
everyone of you to be more diligent to bring into play what we&rsquo;re
talking about more consistently. To truly recognize that it&rsquo;s
right in the middle of your active daily relationships, that the
abandonment of the attempt to create order must occur. You must dare to
abandon the automatic establishment of order, which really means the
automatic establishment of self-protection and not love. That&rsquo;s
exactly when it&rsquo;s called for. A miracle is called for exactly in
the place where a miracle isn&rsquo;t happening. And usually the place
where a miracle isn&rsquo;t happening is a place no one wants to be.
Which is why everyone immediately brings into play the exercise of
control for the purpose of establishing order, because everyone knows
that order couldn&rsquo;t possibly simply happen.

I&rsquo;m going to tell you that it&rsquo;s the constant practice of
establishing order where order doesn&rsquo;t need to be established that
chaos is created. And waking up amounts to the abandoning of what 
creates chaos.
And it can be scary as hell. Because in the abandonment of the personal
exercise of control, your habit is to believe that you will truly be
vulnerable. And you&rsquo;ve got to dare to find out that it&rsquo;s not
true. Because that&rsquo;s where the joy awaits you, in not the
realization that it&rsquo;s not true, but the experience of the fact
that it&rsquo;s not true.

I love you all very much. And I look forward to being with you next
week.

[^1]: T14.5 The Shift to Miracles

