---
title: Aug 31, 2008
ref: "T14.5 The Shift to Miracles"
alink: "/acim/text/14/chap1405/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

Well, we&rsquo;ve been talking about order, we&rsquo;ve been talking
about ordering one&rsquo;s thoughts, and we&rsquo;ve been talking about
the miracle. And if it isn&rsquo;t clear yet, ordering your thoughts and
miracles are not one and the same thing. They don&rsquo;t even blend,
they don&rsquo;t fit together. The miracle happens in the absence of
ordering your thoughts.

There&rsquo;s a saying, &ldquo;We&rsquo;re creatures of habit.&rdquo;
Habits are orderlinesses that have been put into place through mutually
agreed-upon definitions that allow everyone to work together with a
certain degree of harmony.

You don&rsquo;t realize how completely you are governed by these
habits&mdash;by these structures. But one example is, that if, on the
freeway you change the distance between an exit sign and the actual
exit, those driving on the freeway will become confused. This is
experienced very often by people who go from the United States to
Canada. The distance between the exit sign and the actual exit is
different. And so, the expectation that exists by virtue of the habit of
having constantly driven in one&rsquo;s own country can&rsquo;t come to
fruition. &ldquo;Did I pass it? Have I gone too far? Have I not gone far
enough?&rdquo; The comfort and the ease has disappeared and you may not
even know why.

We&rsquo;re going to go into the Book and I&rsquo;m going to back up a
couple of sentences.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The power of God is limitless. And being always maximal, it offers
EVERYTHING to EVERY call from ANYONE. There IS no order of difficulty
here. A call for help is given help.[^1]
</div>

Well, this means something different from the responses you all give to
each other automatically. A call for help, if you respond with help, in
all likelihood is going to be a response based on some mental structure
that is pre-existing in your mind and the mind of the one you are
helping.

As I said last week, that doesn&rsquo;t constitute a real connection
with the one you&rsquo;re with. You have a concept. A concept is a
structure of thoughts&mdash;a collection of thoughts that make a
definition. You have a concept of what constitutes a respectable,
dependable person worthy of your attention. The definition is that, that
person tends to think intelligently, which means, thinks in a
particularly orderly way similar to the orderly way in which you think.

If that person doesn&rsquo;t think in the particularly orderly way that
you do, it makes it very difficult for you to communicate. And you are
likely to judge that person and attribute his problems to the fact that
he&rsquo;s not thinking clearly. And if he did think clearly like you
did, he wouldn&rsquo;t or she wouldn&rsquo;t be having the problem and
wouldn&rsquo;t need attention from you.

Most of you think that love&mdash;a loving response to
another&mdash;amounts to helping that other one find his or her way back
to the orderly thinking of the sort that you use and that maybe the
majority have agreed upon using, so that they wouldn&rsquo;t be running
into the problem they&rsquo;re running into. And you think that&rsquo;s
love. But it&rsquo;s not. It&rsquo;s just finding a way to abide by a
structure of ideas that may or may not have anything to do with the
situation at hand that requires attention. And this is very important.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
A call for help is given help.
</div>

&ldquo;Well, I help all the time. Every day if I have an opportunity to
help somebody, I help them.&rdquo; But I&rsquo;m going to ask you again
&hellip; I&rsquo;m going to ask you: Are you helping them really meet
the actual circumstantial need&mdash;whether it&rsquo;s the circumstance
in their mind or the circumstance in their environment&mdash;or are you
helping them attain a certain conceptual structure or set of conceptual
structures that aren&rsquo;t a response to an actual need at all?

&ldquo;Oh-h, I&rsquo;m having so much trouble, I&rsquo;m experiencing a
great deal of fear.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Well my dear, what you need to do is to realize that God is All
&hellip; God is All&hellip; God is in His holy place, couldn&rsquo;t ever be
anywhere else, and therefore, all is well.&rdquo;

You see, here&rsquo;s a set of sentences, a string of ideas strung
together as though this person, adopting that string of ideas, is going
to find her peace or his peace. And you don&rsquo;t even know why
they&rsquo;re upset. You just know that there&rsquo;s an answer by rote.
And if you teach them the answer by rote, somehow a miracle will occur.
And yet, no connection actually between you and that person has
occurred, and no awareness on your part of what the need actually is,
has occurred.

So the response has been to something not actual. And you all think this
is love. You all think this is help. And what we&rsquo;re reading about
here is clarifying what is and what is not help, so that you stop
engaging in what isn&rsquo;t help.

You&rsquo;re at the airport. You&rsquo;re in the waiting area for your
flight. And there&rsquo;s a lady or a gentleman sitting over a ways away
from you obviously frustrated, upset, uneasy, his behavior or her
behavior and talk is making it clear that there is fear or upset. And
you say, &ldquo;Oh God, I hope he doesn&rsquo;t end up sitting next to
me. I hope she doesn&rsquo;t &hellip; I hope I don&rsquo;t end up
sitting next to her. I have so much work to do between the time I leave
here and we arrive in Detroit. I&rsquo;ve got a meeting to go to.&rdquo;

You see&mdash;Ah-h! You have your mind ordered. It&rsquo;s very orderly.
It&rsquo;s very structured. And you are going to insist upon going on
that flight and carrying out the orderliness that you have set up
because you believe you know what is required&mdash;what is genuinely
called for, what is really needed. And at the bottom line, what&rsquo;s
really needed for you is, to end up being able to please the people at
the meeting you&rsquo;re going to and in the process you&rsquo;re not
going to allow yourself to be present on the plane. And if that person
ends up sitting next to you, you&rsquo;re not going to allow yourself to
be present with that person.

And you know what? No miracle will occur.

No real experience will occur, because no matter whether that person is
sitting next to you or not, you&rsquo;re not going to be present on the
flight. You&rsquo;re going to be present in your head and you&rsquo;re
going to be present with the computer in your lap that you&rsquo;re
preparing your notes for your meeting upon. You&rsquo;re not going to be
present at all. And that&rsquo;s not what being Awake means.
That&rsquo;s not the result of enlightenment. That is what you need to
release yourself from.

Now, you know one of the reasons you don&rsquo;t like to be around
people who don&rsquo;t have their &ldquo;act&rdquo; together, who
haven&rsquo;t managed to get hold of their mind and order their thoughts
so that they can be at peace, because when you&rsquo;re with someone who
hasn&rsquo;t done that, your typical structured responses won&rsquo;t
meet the need and that means it&rsquo;s going to take a lot more from
you to be involved with that one because, what? You&rsquo;re going to
have to feel your way through whatever the heck it is that&rsquo;s
happening. You&rsquo;re actually going to have to allow yourself to be
present with that one, present without preconceptions and present
without a conceptual agenda for him or her. Because if you can&rsquo;t
manage to be present with that one, you&rsquo;re not going to be in any
position to respond to what&rsquo;s really going on. And you will not
be in any position to be an agent for change or to facilitate a miracle.

You see, miracles can be messy! Because they will not function under the
domination of whatever rules or mental orderlinesses you try to insert
and assert in a situation.

A miracle is like raw life itself unfolding, that you need to be willing
to be present with, so that you can catch up with it, stay with it, be
present with it, be with the movement, you see.

A miracle is when something you didn&rsquo;t plan happens. A miracle is
what happens when you have not ordered your mind, when you are not
binding yourself to some concepts&mdash;mental structures&mdash;that you
are using in order to have harmony without actually having to be
conscious, without having to be fluidly, flexibly present with a
brother.

You have rules to save you time and to keep you from hurting while
you&rsquo;re unconscious. And you use them because in order to be
conscious, things will get messy. You use them because in order for a
miracle to occur, you have to be undefended against it&mdash;unprotected
against it.

And you don&rsquo;t want that. You want to be in charge. You want to be
in control. You want to be able to present yourself well.

What does that mean? It means that you manage to present yourself in a
way that expresses structures that you hold in your mind that you abide
by so well, that there&rsquo;s harmony. But it&rsquo;s not harmony
because you are in the movement with God, in the movement of Creation,
in the movement of actually being able to recognize that you&rsquo;re in
the middle of the Kingdom of Heaven, right here, right now.

Now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The power of God is limitless, and being always maximal, it offers
EVERYTHING to EVERY call from ANYONE.
</div>

It offers everything. Not a &ldquo;canned&rdquo; response, not a nice
little packaged orderliness which if that person will embrace it, will
relieve them of their distress. No. It offers everything, wholeness,
full attention, full presence on your part, in this case, on God&rsquo;s
part.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; being always maximal, it offers EVERYTHING to EVERY call from
ANYONE.
</div>

&hellip; whether they seem to be a potentially hysterical passenger on a
flight.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There IS no order of difficulty here. A call for help is given help.
</div>

And I&rsquo;ll tell you something: God never gives you a canned
response. God gives you an experience.

A person has a fear of flying. There seems to be nothing he or she can
do about it. But he or she has to go someplace and fly to get there. How
are you going to deal with that? Well, I&rsquo;ll tell you something: No
degree of intellectual coercion is going to make that person feel
comfort.

And you know what? In the absence of your trying to dish out a canned
response, in your willingness to be fully present with that one without
being pissed off because you&rsquo;re not being able to get the work
done that you had planned to do and would have allowed your flight and
your arrival at your destination to be orderly. Instead of that, your
willingness to be present might cause you to simply hold this
person&rsquo;s hand for a moment or rest your hand on his or her arm and
say something seemingly inconsequential with a gentle warm smile on your
face, that, because of the particular muscular structure of your face,
causes a little curl to occur at the end of your lip when your smiling
that, for an unknown reason, triggers release for that person.

No logic to it, no orderliness to it, no structure to it, but just
exactly the appropriate thing that would cut through the fear, happened,
because you weren&rsquo;t busy being pissed off because of the intrusion
on your time, and because you were willing in spite of all the
orderliness you were going to apply to your trip, you were willing to
abandon it. You were willing to not find value in ordering your thoughts
and abiding by the orderliness of them, so that you were able to be
innocently present with this person.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
A call for help is given help.
</div>

But what the help is, you&rsquo;re not going to know until you&rsquo;re
willing to be It, to let It move through you.

Now, what we&rsquo;re saying is, that the miracle happens when no
judgment is present, when you&rsquo;re not mad at yourself for taking
time away from your orderliness and when you&rsquo;re not judging the
other for having a problem that&rsquo;s intruding on your time.
It&rsquo;s a moment where judgment is absent.

Now when &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
A call for help is given help.

The only judgment involved at all is the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s ONE
division into two categories; one of love, and the other the call for
love.
</div>

Not a division into love and a lack of love, which that person
wouldn&rsquo;t be expressing if they handled themselves a little better
or they followed the rules better or they had better control over their
thoughts. After all, the one you can respect is the one who&rsquo;ll get
on the plane looking perhaps, half-way decent, half-way pleasant to look
at, that would be nice, not necessary, but it would be nice and would
count a point here or there on their behalf, in their favor &hellip; or
somebody who will sit down, go through the flight, perhaps with never
talking to you, perhaps without ever talking to you, but certainly if
they talked to you, not imposing too much on your space or your time or
your mind.

Or, maybe you&rsquo;re a real talker yourself and you hope you sit down
next to someone who&rsquo;s not going to be silent the whole trip, where
you just sit there when you would love to be sharing ideas and learning
about and meeting the person next to you. So there&rsquo;s judgment
there that you&rsquo;re going to be ready to give out because you ended
up with somebody who you couldn&rsquo;t enjoy being with.

All of this amounts to orderlinesses in your mind that you apply to the
situation and you use them as a means of judging the one you&rsquo;re
with or near. And you have this whole experience of them [chuckle]
without ever having met them, without ever having been present with
them, without being willing to be present with them in whatever way
they&rsquo;re being.

So, the tendency is to see people as loving or unloving. But &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s ONE division into two categories; one
of love, and the other the call for love.
</div>

&hellip; is the only judgment that&rsquo;s allowable, workable or
healing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
YOU cannot safely make this division, for you are much too confused
either to recognize love, or to believe that everything else is nothing
but a need for love.
</div>

When a need for love is expressed or confronts you, it can very often be
construed by you to be an inconvenient imposition upon your time which
isn&rsquo;t fair to you. Ah-h, but &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
A call for help is given help.
</div>

&hellip; without fail.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
A call for help is given help.
</div>

And again, I want to make it perfectly clear that what keeps you from
giving help are the structural orderlinesses or the orderly structures
that you use in your mind to stay out of trouble and which, if
you&rsquo;re able to practice very well, and experience the benefit of,
you fully expect others to be willing to employ as well and enjoy the
same benefit you do and thereby, not have occasion to impose upon you by
having a need that requires you to be present with them in the unclear
ambiguous, messy place in which a miracle occurs.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You are too bound to form, and not to content.
</div>

Now this really isn&rsquo;t applying to form [tapping table] you know,
skin, fingers, tables, wood, carpets. You&rsquo;re bound to form.
You&rsquo;re bound to patterns. Patterns: How far away is the exit sign
from the actual exit? Do you walk down the left side of the hall and go
through the left of two double doors? Do you drive on the left side of
the street or the opposite? That&rsquo;s not being bound to form,
that&rsquo;s being bound to a mental training, a mental habit, a mental
structure.

You know it&rsquo;s a habit, because if you go from the United States to
England or Australia, you automatically drive on the right side of the
street, but not for long without scaring yourself to death&mdash;or you
go through the wrong door or you walk on the wrong side of the sidewalk.
You do it, what? Out of habit. Not because you&rsquo;re conscious. If
you were consciously present you would immediately see where the people
walking in your direction are walking, and where the people walking in
the opposite direction are walking and you would accommodate it, because
that&rsquo;s what obviously works. You see? And you wouldn&rsquo;t be
startled into being conscious. You wouldn&rsquo;t be imposed upon in
order to be conscious. You see, the structures, the patterns are mental.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You are too bound to form&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; structures &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and not to content.
</div>

In other words, you&rsquo;re not present with your brother, you&rsquo;re
not present with what they&rsquo;re experiencing or what particular form
of love is being called for.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What you consider content is not content at all. It is merely form, and
nothing else.
</div>

Well, what does that mean? Well, you look at somebody in the public eye.
And this person has a lot of respect and you say, &ldquo;He has a lot of
respect,&rdquo; or &ldquo;she has a lot of respect because their
behavior exemplifies intelligence.&rdquo; In other words, they are
functioning quite well according to the structures present in their
mind, which are very similar to the structures present in your mind. And
so you recognize them.

Ah-h &hellip; What you&rsquo;re doing is recognizing patterns. You
don&rsquo;t know who you are cause you&rsquo;re just a collection of
patterns and you&rsquo;re recognizing them by their collection of
patterns and you&rsquo;re in a fantasy world the whole way. You look at
them and you respect them, you see, and you say you&rsquo;re respecting
the person, you&rsquo;re respecting the content. But you&rsquo;re not!
All you&rsquo;re doing is respecting the form that they are embodying,
which is nothing more than mental habits, structures, concepts that they
are applying to their way of being in the world. That&rsquo;s all.

Content is being totally missed. The only way content won&rsquo;t be
missed is when you are willing to step out of your structures and be
with another who is out of their structures and be in that messy
nebulous place where actual connection can occur, and the holiness of
both of you can register and where healing or a miracle can occur.

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What you consider content is not content at all. It is merely form, and
nothing else. For you do not respond to what a brother REALLY offers
you, but only to the particular perception of his offering by which the
ego judges it.
</div>

Let&rsquo;s be clear here.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For you do not respond to what a brother REALLY offers you, but only to
the particular perception &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; Whose particular perception? Yours!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; but only to the particular perception of his offering by which
the ego judges it.
</div>

Well, whose ego? Yours! You see. This is all totally private, but
it&rsquo;s called relating. You see the insanity, the silliness, the
ridiculousness of it? The whole thing is going on in your head without
any actual connection being allowed, because it&rsquo;s essential to
keep yourself and to help this other one become better aligned with the
mental structures that allow harmony to exist without either one of you
being conscious.

I bet this isn&rsquo;t what you thought the Course was about. But if
you&rsquo;re going to wake up, this is what the Course has to be about,
because you have to abandon the orderlinesses that you apply to yourself
and then try to apply to your world, and the orderliness which you feel
impelled to compel your brother to abide by because that is what you
deem real help, which as I said, will allow harmony to exist with both
of you with neither one of you being conscious.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego is incapable of understanding content, and is totally
unconcerned with it.
</div>

What is the ego? The ego is a collection of habits, a collection of
patterns, a collection of concepts, a collection of mutually agreed upon
definitions. It&rsquo;s not actually conscious, it&rsquo;s not actually
a presence. It&rsquo;s a collection of rules. It&rsquo;s that simple.
And it&rsquo;s incapable of understanding content and is totally
unconcerned with it. It&rsquo;s completely unconcerned with content
until content intrudes upon it, and then the total flexibility
that&rsquo;s called for, the total spontaneity that is called for,
becomes of great concern to the ego because total spontaneity means
complete absence of structure, complete disregard for rules. And
it&rsquo;s collection of rules that constitutes the ego.

So, on its own, it&rsquo;s incapable of understanding content and on its
own it&rsquo;s totally unconcerned with it until it&rsquo;s confronted
with content and until content requires, by circumstances,
understanding. Well, if the ego&rsquo;s incapable of understanding it
but understanding it is called for, then you who are not an ego, find
yourself having an experience that you call, being thrown out into the
deep blue sea with nothing solid to stand on and with currents moving
you at will and you&rsquo;re having an experience of being tossed to and
fro without any sanctuary of safety. And you don&rsquo;t like that. And
you think that something is wrong when that happens. But what
you&rsquo;re learning here is that this is desirable and it is in this
environment that the miracle can occur. It&rsquo;s in this environment,
that you in your right Mind, can be the experience that gives new
definition to you and transforms your awareness of yourself, you might
say, at a new level or in a new way&mdash;transformed.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To the ego, if the form is acceptable &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you know, if the one that you&rsquo;re looking at meets all the
criteria set up by the structures in your mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To the ego, if the form is acceptable the content MUST be.
</div>

&ldquo;He&rsquo;s a great guy! Wow, everyone loves her and should love
her, you know.&rdquo; And yet you&rsquo;ve not connected in anyway with
him or her, but because the form is acceptable the content is. And
you&rsquo;re willing to lavish praise and support on this one who
manages to behave according to the structures that are so similar to
yours and does it so exceptionally well. How could you not extend your
appreciation. And yet, you&rsquo;re not conscious.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To the ego, if the form is acceptable the content MUST be. Otherwise, it
will attack the form.
</div>

What does that mean? Well, we&rsquo;ll take our fearful person in the
airport waiting room and maybe actually in the seat next to you. The
form, meaning the structures, the mental structures &hellip; the
content, meaning the Real one sitting there feeling fear, either next to
you or across the room in the waiting room, the content, if it
isn&rsquo;t acceptable to you, if it is not acceptable to the ego, the
content doesn&rsquo;t get attacked, the form does. And you say,
&ldquo;She needs to get a hold of her mind! Well, obviously no one ever
taught her how to access her peace.&rdquo; You know, &ldquo;She probably
didn&rsquo;t grow up in a well educated family.&rdquo; You see, and this
story begins to be told in the mind. The form gets attacked. An
explanation of why the structure is weak comes forth, you see. The form
gets attacked.

If being with this person distracts you from something that you must get
done, as a part of your orderliness, they&rsquo;re imposing upon you and
they are creating a situation that is unfair. So you determine that
their behavior, that their form is unfair to your form and you&rsquo;re
attacking the form, you&rsquo;re attacking the weak structures,
you&rsquo;re attacking the undeveloped structures, you&rsquo;re
attacking the ignorance of structures that say, &ldquo;If you&rsquo;re
on a plane, even if you&rsquo;re afraid, handle yourself in a way that
no one else knows about it, because no one else needs to be unduly
alarmed.&rdquo; You see, more structures.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip;if the form is acceptable the content MUST be. Otherwise,
it&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the ego &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; will attack the form. You who believe you understand something
of the dynamics of the mind, let me assure you that you know nothing of
it at all. For of yourselves you COULD not know of it. The study of the
ego is NOT the study of the mind.
</div>

You see. [Chuckling] &ldquo;You need to get hold of your mind and apply
a little structure to it. You need a more orderly mind.&rdquo; And if
you manage to create these structures of order, you say, &ldquo;I have
an ordered mind,&rdquo; or you say, &ldquo;He has an ordered
mind.&rdquo; No. You just have a bunch of rules that you&rsquo;re
abiding by quite well. That&rsquo;s behavior, that&rsquo;s not
consciousness. You see? That&rsquo;s behavior, not consciousness.
That&rsquo;s not Mind. Mind is that messy, nebulous, uncontrollable
space, you might say, in which miracles occur, in which enlightenment
happens, in which consciousness exists.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The study of the ego is NOT the study of the mind. In fact, the ego
enjoys the study of itself, and thoroughly approves the undertakings of
students who would analyze it, approving its importance. Yet they but
study form &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; patterns, definitions and so on.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet they but study form with meaningless content. For their teacher is
senseless, though careful to conceal this fact behind a lot of words
which sound impressive, but which lack any consistent sense when they
are put TOGETHER.
</div>

They sound impressive when you sit and say, &ldquo;Well, their behavior
probably stems from not having been raised in a highly educated family
and probably with parents who lacked certain principles, which if they
had had would have caused their life to be more orderly and would have
generated an educational environment in which this person would have
absorbed the intelligent rules and behaviors that would make their life
better and cause them not to be imposing upon me.&rdquo; You see. Sounds
impressive, even though it&rsquo;s an indictment, even though it&rsquo;s
unkind and even though it&rsquo;s untrue.

You&rsquo;ve got to begin to devalue the orderlinesses of concepts and
definitions and structured mental behaviors, which keep you unconscious
of reality&mdash;reality right in front of you. I don&rsquo;t mean
divine Reality off in the spiritual realms. The realm you&rsquo;re in is
as spiritual as it&rsquo;s going to get. But you&rsquo;re not going to
experience what it divinely is as long as you keep yourself bound in
these orderlinesses. And in the constant reestablishment of order where
in your mind &hellip; the constant reestablishment of which keeps you
disconnected from your brother and incapable of really expressing and
extending love.

So the ego puts together words that sound impressive but which lack any
consistent sense when they&rsquo;re put together.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is characteristic of the ego's judgments. Separately, they seem to
hold, but put them together, and the system of thought which arises from
joining them is incoherent and utterly chaotic.
</div>

Why? Anything that is not based upon what&rsquo;s Real, which is
utilized as a basis for actions in the Real world, result in chaos. And
I&rsquo;m going to tell you, that right now as long as you look at this
world and you call it a material world, and you say that the basic
building block of this world is matter, you will experience the Kingdom
of Heaven&mdash;which is really what you are confronted by&mdash;as
chaotic, as incoherent, incoherent in the sense of being polarized and
conflicted, not expressing unification which would be coherence.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the system of thought which arises from joining them is
incoherent and utterly chaotic. For form is not enough for meaning, and
the underlying lack of content makes a cohesive system impossible.
Separation therefore remains the ego's chosen condition. For no-one
alone can judge the ego truly. Yet when two or more JOIN TOGETHER in
searching for truth, the ego can no longer defend its lack of content.
The fact of union TELLS them it is not true.
</div>

&ldquo;Oh dear,&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; no-one alone can judge the ego truly. Yet when two or more
JOIN TOGETHER &hellip;
</div>

&ldquo;You mean like me and this fearful lady sitting next to me on the
airline? You mean if I&rsquo;ll join together with her? But that&rsquo;s
going to be chaos.&rdquo; No, chaos is what you&rsquo;re in the middle
of right now because you think you&rsquo;re alive when you&rsquo;re
actually unconscious. You think you are relating when you&rsquo;re being
absolutely private. And it just happens that through the use of order
all of you are managing to be private well enough so that you
don&rsquo;t impinge upon each other and you say, that&rsquo;s
civilization, that&rsquo;s being civilized, that&rsquo;s orderly,
that&rsquo;s real harmony. It&rsquo;s unconsciousness. It&rsquo;s not
life at all.

So yes, if you join together with the frightened person in a search for
truth, the ego can no longer defend its lack of content.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The fact of union TELLS them &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the ones that are joined together &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; it is not true.
</div>

So, in that act, in that willingness to abandon the orderlinesses and
the willingness to step into the messy, apparently unstable because
it&rsquo;s un-orderly, disorderly place where being present with each
other can occur&mdash;the miracle occurs. And you&rsquo;re blessed and
the other one is blessed.

And so, again this week you&rsquo;re faced with the same opportunity
that we&rsquo;ve been talking about, the continued opportunity to dare
not to respond to each other from the orderlinesses in your mind.

You know what? That may mean that your encounters with your brother are
going to take longer than is convenient because possibly something
marvelous will happen that will keep you together longer, because
there&rsquo;s so much joy.

I will be watching. And I love you all.

[^1]: T14.5 The Shift to Miracles

