---
title: Sep 7, 2008
ref: "T14.5 The Shift to Miracles"
alink: "/acim/text/14/chap1405/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

You know, I need to address something tonight and it&rsquo;s the idea
that Paul has a skill or a talent that not many other people have, and
that therefore his hearing my voice and relaying it, is not something
all of you who are listening, are capable of doing.

&ldquo;He is in touch with his Guide,&rdquo; you say, &ldquo;I&rsquo;m
not in touch with my Guide. I&rsquo;ve tried and tried and tried and
I&rsquo;m still not in touch with my Guide.&rdquo;

And then, it&rsquo;s easy to imagine that for those of you, unlike Paul,
those of you without this &ldquo;talent,&rdquo; there must be another
way that works just as well. After all, God wouldn&rsquo;t leave you out
just because you couldn&rsquo;t hear your Guide like Paul can hear his
Guide.

Many of you say, &ldquo;Well, the system of thought that I&rsquo;ve been
using has been working quite well. And if I listen, even if I
don&rsquo;t hear my Guide, I might find myself realizing ways in which
to use my system of thought better. I might be able to find a way to
order my thoughts better,&rdquo; we&rsquo;ll say, metaphysically through
the use of metaphysical processes, thought processes.

Some of you might even think that if you hear your Guide, your Guide is
going to tell you how to better use your mind to order your thoughts, so
as to have more evidence of healing and transformation.

First of all, Paul is subject to the same thing you are: The need to
stop ordering his thoughts. And he doesn&rsquo;t have a particular
talent for doing that any more than you do, although he loves to try to
order his thoughts, so as to have a better experience&mdash;a better
out-picturing, you might say.

The simple fact is, that as the Course has been illuminating for
everyone, whether you&rsquo;re in touch with your &ldquo;Guide&rdquo; or
not, Guidance is available to you which the Course has referred to as
coming from your Guide, and which the Course has referred to as coming
from the Holy Spirit&mdash;that the Guidance comes from the Holy Spirit.
And that it is essential for each and every one of you to make conscious
connection with the Holy Spirit is an unavoidable fact. And every single
one of you has the capacity, it is not a special talent.

As I&rsquo;ve said before, the Holy Spirit is your right Mind held in
trust while you dally with the ego. Obviously, if the Holy Spirit is
your right Mind, it can&rsquo;t possibly take some special talent to
experience Its Presence. It&rsquo;s got to be inevitable that you will
eventually abandon your attempt to be independent from It, and to order
your thoughts metaphysically or any other way, even just simply through
the use of logic.

I&rsquo;ll be very clear with you on this. The only value there will
ever be to consciously ordering your thoughts through whatever means you
might use, including the use of logic, the only value it will ever have
will be to bring you to a point where there is such clarity within you
about the Presence of God, even though its only intellectual, and such
clarity about what God must be, and such clarity, even though it&rsquo;s
intellectual, about who you Are as the Son or Daughter of God, and such
clarity about what the nature of Creation must be if God is the only
cause and Creator. It will bring you to the point where you have enough
trust and a feeling of enough security to abandon all of this ordering
of your thoughts and yield into God&mdash;yield into your right Mind,
the Holy Spirit&mdash;to let yourself become subject to Something other
than your consciously ordered mind, to yield into something outside the
self you have imagined that you are and confined yourself to.

You are not going to regain your sanity without reuniting with your
right Mind. And it&rsquo;s so absolutely inevitable that after listening
to what I&rsquo;m saying tonight, you can&rsquo;t possibly justify the
assumption that Paul is engaged in something you can&rsquo;t do or, that
when you do whatever waking up is about for you, you won&rsquo;t be
doing what Paul is doing, you&rsquo;ll be doing something different,
because after all, who would really want to be doing what Paul is doing.

Well, what do you think Paul is doing? See, I even have to ask Paul what
does Paul think he&rsquo;s doing.

Paul is allowing himself to not be an orphan. Paul is allowing himself
not to function autonomously. Paul is allowing himself to yield into
whatever the heck it might be that&rsquo;s on the other side of the
orderlinesses of his conscious awareness. And when it works best, he
brings along with him no preconceptions about what he&rsquo;s going to
hear or what he&rsquo;s going to experience.

And so, what is he doing that every single one of you will inevitably do
and might as well start doing tonight? He is allowing himself to yield
to&mdash;and to him at times it seems like taking second place to, when
actually it is being equal with&mdash;his right Mind. Being equal with
That which is a spontaneous expression of Love and is something that
I&rsquo;ve been telling all of you, as well as him (he should be doing)
you should be doing all day long every day because under these
circumstances it&rsquo;s appropriate for these words and this behavior
to happen. But when he&rsquo;s standing in the checkout lane at the
grocery store, it&rsquo;s not appropriate for him to be using this
language and behaving in this manner.

But there is a way for him to behave that glorifies God and illumines
the setting beyond the general beliefs about what a grocery store is and
what&rsquo;s happening there, which is of course, that it&rsquo;s all
commerce and has to do with eating and feeding a material body and
keeping it alive because it will die if it isn&rsquo;t kept alive and
it&rsquo;s all about buying matter and feeding matter to matter, and
blah-blah-blah.

You think that&rsquo;s what it&rsquo;s about in the grocery store? Well
open your eyes up and be willing to look with innocent eyes. Be willing
to say, &ldquo;Father or Holy Spirit, show me what&rsquo;s really going
on here.&rdquo; Why? Because you&rsquo;re supposed to be experiencing
what&rsquo;s really going on there and you&rsquo;re supposed to be able
to be present there from the divinity of you&mdash;from that which
isn&rsquo;t bound by orderlinesses.

So if you think that there&rsquo;s some other way for you than the way
there is for Paul, and you&rsquo;re using it as an excuse for not making
the effort and providing the persistence necessary to get past your
ingrained reluctances to connect with your divinity, then do it. Take
the time, bring the persistence! Get on with it!

To say, &ldquo;I&rsquo;m not meant to be in touch with my right
Mind&rdquo; is insane. To say that you don&rsquo;t have the skill or the
talent or ability to be in touch with your right Mind is ridiculous. To
say that it&rsquo;s going to be hard to do it is also insane. To say
that you may bring enough resistance into the process to delay it, now
that is a great possibility! But don&rsquo;t do it!

Now, we talked about these orderlinesses&mdash;these mental structures
of definitions and mutually-agreed-upon definitions and so on and so
forth. We&rsquo;ve talked about them as means of protecting yourself.
But in the process of protecting yourself, something of a larger picture
developed and that was, that you found that you had a particular way of
protecting yourself that was different from the way Joe down the street
developed his to protect himself and the means of protection&mdash;the
style of protection, the form of the protection&mdash;became identified
with each of you. Identified? And it was like, &ldquo;Oh this
identification is my identity. The way I think, the subject matter I
think about, the uses I put it to, all identify me.&rdquo;

Can you see why there might be a reluctance to abandon the orderlinesses
that you have developed? Do you see that it might be somewhat scary?
Because at the bottom line, you think you&rsquo;re going to be
abandoning your identity. And if you don&rsquo;t hold those structures
in place, who in the hell or who in heaven&rsquo;s name will you be? And
it&rsquo;s too scary to want to find out.

Someone wrote an unpublished song, the title of which was: &ldquo;Thank
God I&rsquo;m not who I thought I was.&rdquo; I want every one of you to
consider the possibility that you might end up being able to say,
&ldquo;Thank God I&rsquo;m not who I thought I was.&rdquo; And please
understand that the successful study of the Course is going to bring you
to the point where you will say that.

The Course and it&rsquo;s meaning is never going to help you be who you
thought you were more efficiently and better. Never! &ldquo;I want to
wake up. But boy, I don&rsquo;t want transformation!&rdquo; [almost
whispering] Yes you do. Yes you do.

I keep pointing out that the true experience of who you really Are, is
beyond anything you can imagine, is not frightening. It exists in
perfect equanimity. It exists in perfect safety because in it there is
no threat because there is coherence. There is unity.

Now, let&rsquo;s go into the Book.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is impossible to remember God in secret and alone.[^1]
</div>

You can talk about God alone. You can talk to God in secret&mdash;just
you in your mind talking to what you think God is. But it is impossible
to remember God. It is impossible to have the experience of union with
God all by yourself.

Either in remembering God, you are also going to remember your brothers
and sisters, or in the connection&mdash;the genuine connection with
them&mdash;you are going to remember God. But it is not going to happen
except in the context, for lack of better words, of family. To remember
God is to remember the Brotherhood. To look at the Brotherhood with
innocent eyes and a desire to be the presence of Love for the
Brotherhood or even the brother, you are going to remember the Father
that makes your brother or your sister your brother and sister.

There is no way for you to wake up without the cohesiveness and the
invariable unity of the family coming into focus.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is impossible to remember God in secret and alone.
</div>

All the benefits that you thought you got as an orphan, you&rsquo;re
going to have to throw away. All the special dispensations that you were
able to wheedle out of your brothers and sisters because you were an
orphan, and all the bennies that they were able to wheedle out of you
because they were orphans, will have to be abandoned. And the
satisfaction you got from the skill you brought to the process will have
to be let go of. A lot of things that satisfied you will have to be
released.

But you know what? You&rsquo;re going to have to release things that
were compensations for being an orphan, so that you might experience the
compensations that are available to a Son or Daughter of God&mdash;a
brother or a sister to the brothers and sisters who are the Sons and
Daughters of God.

But you&rsquo;re going to find out that you have a great investment in
these bennies&mdash;these benefits, these special dispensations and even
certain positions you&rsquo;ve achieved where you get more bennies than
someone else does. It&rsquo;s all nonsense, but you value it. And it
makes you feel good. And yes, you&rsquo;re going to have to let go of
those things which make you feel good because they&rsquo;re keeping you
from experiencing your true inheritance. They&rsquo;re keeping you from
experiencing who you Are. They&rsquo;re keeping you from experiencing
your real identity.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is impossible to remember God in secret and alone. For remembering
Him means you are NOT alone, and willing to remember it.
</div>

You see, when you&rsquo;ve taken time to sit down and talk to God,
it&rsquo;s as though you&rsquo;re acknowledging that you&rsquo;re not
alone. But you&rsquo;re not remembering it. You&rsquo;re not remembering
the experience of unity. You&rsquo;re not remembering in the Now, the
active conscious connection with God as, for lack of better words,
two-way communication or unified conscious awareness.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Take no thought for yourself&hellip;
</div>

Well, what do you mean, &ldquo;take no thought for yourself?&rdquo; What
is taking thought for myself? Well I&rsquo;ll tell you something, every
single orphan in the orphanage takes thought for himself. He gets up in
the morning and assesses everything on the basis of himself and what his
needs are and what challenges he might meet that keep him from
experiencing his need being fulfilled. So he takes thought for himself.
Very seldom does one wake up and think of Henry next door and take
thought for him and let that take precedence over taking thought for
himself. It&rsquo;s just a simple fact of life isn&rsquo;t it?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Take no thought for yourself, for no thought you hold IS for yourself.
</div>

In other words, there are &hellip; there really are no private thoughts.
Every thought you have colors or reflects on every other Son or Daughter
of God&mdash;every other brother or sister. It colors your perception of
them, changes the way you behave toward them and creates an energetic or
mental environment that is felt and is either uplifting or depressing to
the brotherhood&mdash;at least the brothers and sisters who insist upon
seeing themselves as orphans.

Those who are awake certainly feel it, but they&rsquo;re not
successfully depressed by your negativity or your valuing of untruth.
But they feel it. And they look forward to the time when you cease this
so that all may rejoice together in what is true.

So there are no private thoughts.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Take no thought for yourself, for no thought you hold IS for yourself.
</div>

Now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you would remember your Father&hellip;
</div>

In other words, if you would engage in doing something besides taking
thought for yourself.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you would remember your Father&hellip;
</div>

If you would allow for and want the conscious experience of having His
Mind, of having His conscious experience of Reality&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; let the Holy Spirit order your thoughts&hellip;
</div>

Here we are again, you see &hellip; Does it say, &ldquo;If you would
remember your Father, do what Paul Tuttle is doing?&rdquo; No.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you would remember your Father, let the Holy Spirit order your
thoughts&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; which is what Paul is doing. But that&rsquo;s irrelevant.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you would remember your Father, let the Holy Spirit &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; let that which is nothing more than your right Mind &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; order your thoughts, and give only the answer with which He
answers you.
</div>

Paul is giving right now only what I am giving him. He&rsquo;s not
introducing any of his own personal theories and so on and so forth.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you would remember your Father&hellip;
</div>

If you would have the conscious communion with God occur in your
experience &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; let the Holy Spirit order your thoughts, and &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; then &hellip; I&rsquo;m adding the word, &ldquo;then&rdquo;
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; give &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; to your world, to your brothers, your sisters &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; only the answer with which He answers you.
</div>

Share the Vision that is shared with you. Everyone&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Everyone seeks for love as you do, and knows it not unless he joins with
you in seeking it.

Everyone seeks for love as you do, and knows [love] not unless
he joins with you in seeking it.
</div>

Now, what I want to make clear is, that as you know, you&rsquo;re
confronted either with love or a call for love. Those are the only two
things you&rsquo;re ever faced with from a brother or a sister.

When a brother is behaving awkwardly, unkindly, obtusely, it&rsquo;s a
call for love. He doesn&rsquo;t realize it, and if you&rsquo;re not
alert, you don&rsquo;t realize it either and you interpret his behavior
as unkind, as perhaps dangerous to you and as something you should
protect yourself against. And so you return to him attack for attack.

But &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Everyone seeks for love as you do, and knows it &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; knows love &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; not unless he joins with you in seeking it.
</div>

And what I&rsquo;m trying to bring out here is, that when a brother
behaves in an unkind fashion to you, he is asking to join you in finding
love. It is a call for love.

So, you know, it&rsquo;s not a matter of, &ldquo;Wow, wouldn&rsquo;t it
be nice to find somebody I could sit down with and we could join
together in finding love, all hunky-dory and working together
pleasantly?&rdquo; No. Whether a brother is being pleasant or
unpleasant, he or she is joining you in the goal of finding love.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Everyone seeks for love as you do, and knows it not unless he joins with
you in seeking it. If you undertake the search together, you bring with
you a light so powerful that what you see is GIVEN meaning.
</div>

And this applies to you and the lady on the plane who is experiencing
great fear. If you undertake the search together, if she expresses her
fear, and you hear that it&rsquo;s a call for love and you join her in
wanting to know what love is&mdash;because her fear is a call for
love&mdash;you bring with you a light so powerful that what you see is
given meaning. You see, the lady who is distressed, the lady who is full
of fear, is embodying lack of meaning at the moment. She&rsquo;s not
experiencing the meaning of what&rsquo;s happening. She&rsquo;s not
experiencing heaven and yet heaven is the only thing happening, meaning
is occurring but she&rsquo;s not experiencing it.

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you undertake the search together&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; for love &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you bring with you a light so powerful that what you see
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; which appears to be a meaningless expression of fear &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is GIVEN meaning.
</div>

Meaning is illuminated, meaning comes forth. And I will tell you that
the fear that the woman is experiencing will subside.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The lonely journey fails because it has excluded what it would FIND.
</div>

The lonely journey is a journey that is consciously designed to be
lonely. The experience of being an orphan is designed to be a lonely,
fatherless, motherless, brotherless, sisterless experience. It&rsquo;s
designed to be exactly that. The one who&rsquo;s employing the act of
being an orphan has consciously designed it that way, and until he has a
better goal, will continue.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The lonely journey fails because it has excluded what it would FIND.
</div>

What it is after is an experience of wholeness&mdash;a wholeness
achieved through autonomous effort. But wholeness is what is wanted, and
wholeness is real. Health is what is wanted, and health is real. The
experience of being loved is wanted and that is real. But all of the
things it wants &hellip; all of the things the orphan wants, it wants to
get while remaining independent, while remaining aloof, while allowing
for no actual relationship. And so it excludes the only thing that would
truly give it what it wants.

Now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As God communicates to the Holy Spirit in you, so does the Holy Spirit
translate His communications THROUGH you so YOU can understand them.
</div>

I&rsquo;m going to put it this way to make it perfectly clear: Paul
gains understanding of the truth by sharing it with you as he&rsquo;s
doing right now. If he sits and talks to me all by himself he can learn,
but the learning does not become full until he cares to share it.

Listen to this again:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As God communicates to the Holy Spirit in you, so does the Holy Spirit
translate His &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; God&rsquo;s &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; communications THROUGH you so YOU can understand them.
</div>

Paul may say, &ldquo;What do I need to do?&rdquo; And I might say to
him, &ldquo;You need to love your brother. You need to love your brother
more than you&rsquo;re loving your brother.&rdquo; And he says,
&ldquo;Oh, okay.&rdquo; And he hasn&rsquo;t learned a thing. He&rsquo;s
grasped the idea, but if he happens to be the one on the plane sitting
next to the woman who is full of fear, he now has the opportunity to
express love to his fellowman by not being offended at the imposition on
his time and by neglecting to respond with canned phrases, canned
truths, memorized statements of healing effect and who&rsquo;s willing
to be present with her without having a single thought about what he
could do to improve it himself, on his own as an independent thinker of
a spiritual thought. You see?

What it boils down to is that if you want to remember God, you&rsquo;re
going to have to connect with your brother. You&rsquo;re going to have
to stop distancing yourself from your brothers and sisters through the
use of concepts and definitions and orderlinesses that give you distance
from your brother and hopefully coerce your brother into behaving in
such a way, as to give him a sense of well-being while being independent
from you.

I&rsquo;m going to be very blunt with you: When you&rsquo;re bothered by
your brothers and sisters, when you feel that they are imposing upon
you, [snaps fingers] very simply, you see them as challenging your
identity, you see them as challenging, if nothing else, your integrity
by pulling on you and causing you to abandon your orderliness and
causing you to neglect the carrying out of actions on your part that,
what? Confirm your identity well and allow you to look good to those you
would impress with your orderlinesses. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God has no secret communications, for everything of Him is perfectly
open, and freely accessible to all, being FOR all.
</div>

Now, they&rsquo;re not only accessible to all, they are communicated to
all, always. Paul isn&rsquo;t getting special dispensation that someone
else isn&rsquo;t getting. Paul is undefended enough to experience it,
where others might not be, but that&rsquo;s the only difference.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God has no secret communications, for everything of Him is perfectly
open, and freely accessible to all, being FOR all. Nothing lives in
secret, and what you would hide from the Holy Spirit is nothing.
</div>

You might say, &ldquo;It&rsquo;s of no consequence. It has no
substance.&rdquo; And actually what it has is no content.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Every &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; interpretation &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; every concept, every definition you&rsquo;ve made up.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Every interpretation YOU would lay upon a brother is senseless.
</div>

And yet for the most part, what you call the orderliness in your society
is absolutely a result of interpretations you have laid upon your
brothers and your brothers have laid upon you and you have agreed to
mutually. And that&rsquo;s not a relationship. That&rsquo;s not even
conscious connection. That&rsquo;s just a bunch of robots following
their patterns, doing them obediently and reinforcing them with each
other and they all seem to be in perfect harmony. But there&rsquo;s no
consciousness.

The Holy Spirit is nothing more than your right Mind. That means
it&rsquo;s available to you. It means it&rsquo;s accessible to you. It
means it&rsquo;s not out of your reach. It means that it is you already.
So to be experiencing consciousness is at this very moment, your
Birthright and is available to you if you will be willing to abandon the
form&mdash;all of the orderlinesses, the intellectual orderlinesses of
your mind&mdash;so that you might, in the absence of them, have a direct
conscious experience of what&rsquo;s really going on and experience the
illumination of what&rsquo;s really going on, and see who your brother
really is and see who you really are.

And I&rsquo;ll tell you who you really are isn&rsquo;t someone in her
eighties, or someone in his thirties, or someone in his teens.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Every interpretation YOU would lay upon a brother is senseless.
</div>

&hellip; and vice versa.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Let the Holy Spirit SHOW him to you, and teach you both his love and
need for love.

Let the Holy Spirit SHOW him to you&hellip;
</div>

Well, in order to let the Holy Spirit show him to you, you&rsquo;re
going to have to invite the education of having your brother shown to
you. So you&rsquo;re going to have to abandon your autonomy.

Again, Paul may be abandoning his autonomy, but it&rsquo;s not a special
talent. And again, every single one of you needs to be attending to
abandoning your autonomy, needs to be inviting the education that the
Holy Spirit&mdash;that which is nothing more than your right
Mind&mdash;is intent upon sharing with you the moment you&rsquo;ll give
it your attention and not have explanations for why it won&rsquo;t work
for you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Let the Holy Spirit SHOW him to you, and teach you both his love and
need for love.
</div>

In other words, his love and what appears to be a call for love, which
is obtuse or bad behavior, which is his need for love.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Neither his mind NOR YOURS holds more than these two orders of thought.
</div>

Either you are expressing love or a call for a love. And your brothers
and sisters are either expressing love or a call for love. You&rsquo;re
never doing anything else.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The miracle &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; is a sudden shift of perception.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The miracle is the recognition that this is true. Where there is love,
your brother must give it to you because of what it IS.
</div>

When you look at your brother and there is love there, he will be giving
it to you, because that&rsquo;s what happens, that&rsquo;s what love is,
that&rsquo;s the movement that love is.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
But &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in looking at your brother&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; where there is NEED for love&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; which you would call a call for love or bad behavior.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
But where there is NEED for love, YOU must give it because of what YOU
are.
</div>

See, it didn&rsquo;t say, &ldquo;You must give it because it&rsquo;s the
right thing to do,&rdquo; or &ldquo;You must do it because it will give
you points when you step up to the &lsquo;Pearly Gates&rsquo;.&rdquo; It
didn&rsquo;t say, &ldquo;You must do it because it will help you to be a
better orphan.&rdquo; No, it said&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
But where there is NEED for love, YOU must give it because of what YOU
are. Long ago we said this course will teach you what you are, restoring
to you &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; your identity.
</div>

Can it be any more clearer than this?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; restoring to you your identity.
</div>

In restoring your identity to you, it will negate and dissolve the
identity you have created for yourself. Thank God! It will&mdash;in
restoring your identity&mdash;cause the dissolving and disappearance of
every thought, feeling, attitude associated with the meaning of
orphanhood. It will erase any false identity you have been entertaining,
reinforcing and claiming as yours.

[Raj didn&rsquo;t read this: We have already learned that this identity
is shared]
{: .omit}

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The miracle becomes the means of sharing it.
</div>

The miracle: The sudden shift of perception. The sudden shift of
perception about what? Well, the sudden shift of perception about your
brother or your sister, which in the sharing of it, causes you to be
illuminated about the meaning of it for yourself&mdash;thus redefining
your identity&mdash;and along with it, its purpose.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
By supplying your identity wherever it is NOT recognized, YOU will
recognize it.
</div>

Well, everyone who knows you as the orphan who lives on the top floor of
the orphanage, in the best spot available, will no longer find you
supplying that identity to them and reinforcing it, because you&rsquo;re
going to be supplying your true identity because you&rsquo;ve stopped
claiming to be an orphan and you&rsquo;ve let the Father through
you&mdash;extending to your brother, another so-called orphan&mdash;but
extending it to one who is no longer appearing to be an orphan to you,
because in the extending of the awareness of what he truly is, you are
extending the awareness of what you truly are and confirming both of you
in the family.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The miracle &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your willingness to experience a sudden shift of perception
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; becomes the MEANS of sharing it.
</div>

Sharing your identity.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
By supplying your identity wherever it is NOT recognized, YOU will
recognize it. And God Himself, Who wills to be with His Son forever,
will bless each recognition of His Son with all the love He holds for
him.
</div>

You see, the experience of the wholeness of family comes together in
oneness, in unity.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Nor will the power of ALL His Love be absent from any miracle you offer
to His Son.
</div>

That&rsquo;s the promise of you fulfilling your function, by letting
that Mind be in you which is your only right Mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
How, then, can there be any order of difficulty among them?
</div>

What else can I say?

I love you. And I look forward to being with you next week.

[^1]: T14.5 The Shift to Miracles

