---
title: Oct 19, 2008
ref: "T14.6 The Test of Truth"
alink: "/acim/text/14/chap1406/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

You know, at the bottom line, we&rsquo;ve been talking about the
simplicity of Waking up, the simplicity of coming back into your right
Mind. And tonight isn&rsquo;t going to be any different. In fact, it
might even seem a little meaningless, what we&rsquo;re going to be
talking about, because at the bottom line, there really is nothing
dynamic about Awakening. It really is a simple matter of choosing for
your peace. It really is a simple matter of being willing to withdraw
your attention from the stimulation, the stimulation not that the world
provides, but the stimulation that other people provide about the world.

&ldquo;Oh-h &hellip; the world&rsquo;s going to hell in a
hand-basket!&rdquo;

[chuckle] Well, hey, the simplicity of it is, that the hand-basket that
the world is going to hell in, is nothing but your careless mind.
It&rsquo;s nothing but your mind not being used for the purpose of
peace&mdash;not being used for the purpose of expressing, extending
intelligence, harmony, love, peace.

Oh, but it makes it sound very complicated &hellip; &ldquo;The world out
there is going to hell in a hand-basket!&rdquo; [chuckles] Funny little
saying, isn&rsquo;t it. But if you take it at its apparent face value,
it must be alarming. It must be worth getting upset about. And
I&rsquo;ll tell you something: If it&rsquo;s worth getting upset about,
then coming back into your right Mind won&rsquo;t be able to happen.

So, you really have to come down to brass tacks and ask yourself how
important is it to you to Wake up? Is it more or less important than the
excitement of getting upset?

Remember that the Holy Spirit is only limited by the degree of attention
you bring to It. And if you don&rsquo;t bring your attention to the Holy
Spirit, you will not hear the Holy Spirit. And because the Holy Spirit
is nothing more than your right Mind, it is your right Mind that you
won&rsquo;t hear. And it&rsquo;s your right Mind that you won&rsquo;t
experience, all for the cheap thrill of a little bit of excitement
about, &ldquo;The world going to hell in a hand-basket.&rdquo;

The simple fact is and always has been, that the world will stop looking
like it&rsquo;s going to hell in a hand-basket if you choose to use your
mind for the purpose it was intended. And the purpose for which your
mind was intended was to be that place of attention or that capacity of
attention being given to Creation. In other words, to see Creation and
engage in glorifying God, standing in utter awe of the magnificence of
perfection&mdash;a perfection that is nothing more nor less than the
extension of you&mdash;because you are God Presencing Himself/Herself
right where you are. And there is no fragmentation in it&mdash;in that
relationship. It is absolutely One. It is absolutely indivisible.

I know. You don&rsquo;t think that your function is that utterly simple,
that you are the capacity to give your attention to and recognize the
divinity of Creation right where you are. And that it is not your
function to look at an interpretation of Creation as though the infinity
of Creation is nothing but a humongous &ldquo;Saturday Night Live&rdquo;
broadcast to be amused at, stimulated by.

It&rsquo;s much more than that. And yet the means of having the
experience of it is insultingly simple. And I say insultingly simple
because in order to experience it, you have to be willing to abandon a
capacity you think you have to act on your own, to be an independent
authorizer, an independent thinker, who through the creative use of his
capacity to think, can make things happen in the world.

But you know what? You don&rsquo;t have to do that. You really
don&rsquo;t have to do that in order to have the ultimate. It&rsquo;s
absolutely unnecessary for any of you to exercise authority of any kind
in order for you, well, for lack of better words, to sit at the right
Hand of God. In other words, be a co-operator with God&mdash;to be that
Presence of Mind which is perfectly capable of experiencing all of
Reality, all of Creation exactly as God is experiencing it. And to be
free of sin, sickness and death, free of fear, free of everything that
connotes the human condition, which all of you would like to overcome.

Let&rsquo;s go into the book. And let&rsquo;s remember as we go through
this tonight, that although it seems simple and un-stimulating, it is
utterly profound. It&rsquo;s the answer to the human condition.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God&rsquo;s Son will ALWAYS be indivisible. As we are held as one in
God, so do we learn as one in Him. God&rsquo;s Teacher &hellip;[^1]
</div>

Now, who&rsquo;s God&rsquo;s Teacher? The Holy Spirit, that which is
nothing more than your right Mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God&rsquo;s Teacher is as like to His Creator as is His Son&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that which is nothing more than your right Mind is as like to
God&mdash;Its Creator&mdash;as are you. You see? But as long as
you&rsquo;re choosing to have a different definition of everything, that
which is nothing more than your right Mind seems to not be yours and
seems not to be with you and seems to be different from you. But as
I&rsquo;ve said before, it&rsquo;s your divinity held in trust while you
dally with being a private authorizer&mdash;an ego. Nevertheless&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God&rsquo;s Teacher &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is as like to His Creator as is His Son&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; God&rsquo;s Son&mdash;you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and through His Teacher does God proclaim His Oneness AND His
Son&rsquo;s.
</div>

Through the Holy Spirit&mdash;that which is nothing more than your right
Mind&mdash;the truth about you is revealed to you. And what more
whole-izing, what more integrated event could occur than for that which
is nothing more than your right Mind to reveal the truth about you, to
you, so that you might remember and embrace your right Mind as your only
Mind and your only perspective. You see, it&rsquo;s like saying God uses
the fact that you and the Holy Spirit&mdash;you and your right
Mind&mdash;are one as the basis for causing your Oneness to register
with you. There couldn&rsquo;t be a more integrated means of bringing
you back into the experience of unity.

Again, because it&rsquo;s important:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God&rsquo;s Teacher is as like to His Creator as is His Son, and through
His Teacher does God proclaim His Oneness AND His Son&rsquo;s. Listen in
silence, and do not raise your voice against Him.
</div>

Him &hellip; Whom? Your Teacher. Don&rsquo;t raise your voice against
Him? It means, don&rsquo;t employ the arrogance that it takes to say,
&ldquo;You&rsquo;d rather see it your way,&rdquo; or to say,
&ldquo;Here&rsquo;s the way it is,&rdquo; or &ldquo;Here&rsquo;s the
definition of things.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Listen in silence, and do not raise your voice against Him.
</div>

Do not assert yourself in place of your capacity to be out from your
right Mind. Don&rsquo;t assert yourself in place of being the expression
of Sanity.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Listen in silence, and do not raise your voice against Him. For He
teaches the miracle of oneness&hellip;
</div>

And when you&rsquo;re speaking against Him, when you&rsquo;re speaking
for yourself, you&rsquo;re speaking for division. Your act is an act of
independence, of differentness.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He teaches the miracle of oneness, and before His lesson division
disappears.
</div>

You remember your right Mind, it becomes illuminated to you. And when
you&rsquo;re not resisting it, it fills you, it embraces you, it reminds
you of what you wholly Are in such a way that you never want to let go
of it again.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He teaches &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the miracle of oneness, and before His lesson division
disappears. Teach like Him here, and you will remember that you have
ALWAYS created like your Father.
</div>

What does that mean, &ldquo;Teach like Him here&rdquo;? Well, if you
dare to be silent and don&rsquo;t speak against Him, don&rsquo;t speak
over Him, you will find yourself knowing things and you will find
yourself impelled to express that which harmonizes, that which pacifies,
that which whole-izes.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and you will remember that you have ALWAYS created like your
Father. The miracle of creation has never ceased, having the holy stamp
of immortality upon it.
</div>

And you, participating in the miracle of creation, by being that
capacity of attentiveness to see and recognize the Movement of God and
acknowledge it for what it is, in Joy.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The miracle of creation has never ceased, having the holy stamp of
immortality upon it.
</div>

And if your capacity to recognize the Movement of Creation for what it
is, is a capacity to recognize that which is immortal, then you, that
which is recognizing it, must be immortal too. And that will be part of
what dawns on you in the realization of what you Are in the Awakening
process.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is the Will of God for all creation, and all creation joins in
willing this.
</div>

But I&rsquo;ll tell you, as long as you are enjoying believing that you
have some sort of private, personal authority that you can exercise and
demonstrate that you&rsquo;re an authorizer, then you are not joining in
willing what God wills, and you&rsquo;re speaking against the Holy
Spirit.

And the answer is to, &ldquo;Stop!&rdquo; It&rsquo;s just that simple.
The answer is to, &ldquo;Stop!&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Those who remember always that they know nothing, but who have become
willing to learn EVERYTHING, will learn it. But whenever they trust
themselves, they will NOT learn.
</div>

You see, utter simplicity. It doesn&rsquo;t say anything about,
&ldquo;Well if you&rsquo;ll think the right thoughts, and if
you&rsquo;ll think the right thoughts in a particular order, and if you
will burn incense as you do this, and if, as you&rsquo;re doing this,
friends who have learned exactly the specific forms of dance that are
necessary, if they will dance around you while you&rsquo;re doing this,
you will Wake up&mdash;or a miracle will happen.&rdquo;

No, it&rsquo;s far simpler than that. It&rsquo;s interesting to do those
kinds of complicated [dramatic voice] &ldquo;spiritual
productions,&rdquo; but it&rsquo;s unnecessary and useless and
it&rsquo;s a distraction.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Those who remember always that they know nothing, but who have become
willing to learn EVERYTHING, will learn it. But whenever they trust
themselves, they will NOT learn. They have destroyed their motivation
for learning by thinking they ALREADY know.
</div>

Now, I&rsquo;m going to give you a simple example here. When Sunday
night rolls around and it&rsquo;s time for the Gathering here, Paul
suddenly becomes very devoted to listening. He knows he can&rsquo;t fake
it. He doesn&rsquo;t want to fake it. He has to be able to hear me, and
so he listens impeccably.

But when the meeting is over, he figures that he can grab a sandwich or
get a cup of coffee or, you know, visit with those who are attending.
And he can do that quite well by himself. And so, he abandons the
devotion, the commitment to being with me, which is the equivalent of
being with his right Mind. And this is his learning, not to do that. And
it&rsquo;s everyone else&rsquo;s learning.

And the interesting thing is that as the week goes by, even though he
speaks with me frequently, but not at any great length at any one time,
he finds himself experiencing fear. He finds himself experiencing
anxiety. It is as though he picks up on &ldquo;the world going to hell
in a hand-basket,&rdquo; even if he&rsquo;s not watching the television.

You see, if he or you choose to operate independently&mdash;disconnected
from one&rsquo;s right Mind&mdash;one inevitably feels fear and anxiety
and sees himself in a thing called &ldquo;a world&rdquo; that may or may
not be going to hell in a hand-basket.

Now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; whenever they trust themselves, they will NOT learn.
</div>

Whenever Paul relies upon himself, he will not learn.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
They have &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; he has &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; destroyed their motivation &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; destroyed his motivation &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; for learning by thinking they ALREADY know.
</div>

&hellip; by thinking he already knows.

The sad thing is, for Paul and for everyone else, that because it feels
so normal to think for one&rsquo;s self, and because the fullness of
being in one&rsquo;s right Mind is a vague memory, it doesn&rsquo;t feel
like there&rsquo;s any significant loss or deficiency being experienced
by virtue of continuing to do a few things by yourself&mdash;on your
own, the way you know how to do them. And yet, it&rsquo;s the loss of
being Sane, it&rsquo;s the loss of being Awake.

Let&rsquo;s put it this way, it&rsquo;s the loss of regaining your
Sanity, of coming back into your right Mind and experiencing the
awesomeness that your sort of demented mind or mentality, is minimizing
to the point where it seems problematic instead of awesome.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
They have destroyed their motivation for learning by thinking they
ALREADY know.
</div>

Now, on Sunday night, as I said, Paul makes a commitment and he can hear
me. And during the week when he&rsquo;s not listening to me consistently
and he asks me a question, there are times when he cannot hear me. And
that&rsquo;s a little distressing, because he does rely on our communion
and the blessing that comes from it.

Now, when you destroy the motivation for your learning by thinking that
you already know, you seem to make it impossible for you to actually
have the experience of knowing, even though you can&rsquo;t actually
destroy that capacity.

What is unfortunate is that you begin to believe that you don&rsquo;t
have the capacity and you stop trying. And most of you who, up to this
point, have never really thought in terms of listening within for that
which is nothing more than your right Mind, which, surprise, surprise to
you is nothing less than the Holy Spirit.

You are almost automatically caught in a great sense of the
impossibility of that&mdash;which makes it difficult for you to bring
any degree of commitment to the process of listening. You see. And
it&rsquo;s that inertia that has to be overcome.

It&rsquo;s overcome by persistence, by persistence on your part in
choosing for your peace, persistence no matter what is going on
&ldquo;in the world.&rdquo; Persisting in choosing for your peace
because it&rsquo;s available to you always, it is never absent from you.
And when you persist in your choice for your peace and you meditate or
you use whatever technique works for you to get into your peace, you
will find your peace right in the middle of chaos. And in that peace,
that which diminishes the chaos can emerge and will emerge. But
you&rsquo;ve got to not give up, no matter whether the world seems to be
going to &ldquo;hell in a hand-basket&rdquo; or not.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Think not you understand anything until you pass the test of perfect
peace, for peace and understanding go together, and never can be found
alone. Each brings the other WITH it, for it is the law of God they be
not separate. They are cause and effect, each to the other, so where one
is absent the other CANNOT be.

&hellip; the other CANNOT be.

&hellip; peace and understanding &hellip;
</div>

Understanding may seem difficult to achieve by a direct act. But peace
you can achieve by a direct act of meditation&mdash;of becoming still.
So, enjoy that avenue. Take advantage of it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Only those who see they cannot know UNLESS the effects of understanding
are with them can really learn at all.
</div>

Why? Because, if you have the truth and no result, you don&rsquo;t have
the truth. If you have truth and you have the result of truth, you have
truth. And if the manifestation of truth is present, it means that the
understanding is present and learning can occur.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Only those who see they cannot know UNLESS the effects of understanding
are with them can really learn at all.
</div>

And the ones who see that can learn, because they&rsquo;re bringing
their attention to where the learning can occur. They are not assuming
that they know and therefore have nothing to learn.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Only those who see they cannot know UNLESS the effects of understanding
are with them can really learn at all. And for this, it must be peace
they WANT, and nothing else. Whenever you think YOU know, peace will
depart from you because you have abandoned the Teacher of Peace.
</div>

It&rsquo;s getting a little monotonous isn&rsquo;t it?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Whenever you think YOU know, peace will depart from you because you have
abandoned the Teacher of Peace.
</div>

You see. &ldquo;I know it all by myself.&rdquo; Paul knows how to get a
sandwich after the meeting. Paul knows how to talk with the people that
are there, all by himself. But peace does depart from him, because
he&rsquo;s abandoned the Teacher of Peace. He&rsquo;s abandoned the
knowing that comes from joining with one who is Awake, whether
it&rsquo;s his right Mind or whether it&rsquo;s me. You see.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Whenever you fully realize that you know NOT peace will return, for you
will have invited Him to do so by abandoning the ego on behalf of Him.
</div>

Him being the Holy Spirit, Him being that which is nothing more than
your right Mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Call not upon the ego for anything.
</div>

You see. Don&rsquo;t speak on your behalf for any reason. Don&rsquo;t
assert yourself for any reason.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is only THIS that you need do.
</div>

Don&rsquo;t call upon the ego. Don&rsquo;t engage in independent
authoritative decision making or acting. What do you do instead? You
listen in the silence without speaking against the Teacher, without
speaking against your right Mind, without speaking against and
overriding your sanity which is there before you have a single thought,
before you try to do a single thing all by yourself.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Whenever you fully realize that you know NOT peace will return, for you
will have invited Him to do so by abandoning the ego on behalf of Him.
Call not upon the ego for anything. It is only THIS that you need do.
</div>

It is only THIS that you need do to wake up!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit will, of HIMSELF&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that which is nothing more than your right Mind, will of Itself
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; fill every mind that so makes room for Him.
</div>

&hellip; will fill your mind that so makes room for Him.

Now, what do you think the word is that means you abandoning thinking
&hellip; you letting your mind be a clean slate into which you as a
private authorizer are introducing nothing? When your mind is allowed to
become utterly still, and there is a willingness on your part to abandon
self-assertion&mdash;truly, honestly abandon self-assertion&mdash;that,
what happens, is called Atonement. That is the simplicity of it.

When you are not speaking against the Teacher and you are in utter
silence, the Teacher fills that which used to assert itself
independently with the truth of which that self is the divine one, that
is constituted of the Holy Spirit, that is infilling the tiny sense of
self that one was entertaining in his every attempt to be an authorizer.
In the absence &hellip; in the absence of an authorizer, Atonement
happens. Oneness with God occurs. You coming back into your right Mind
happens. The very thing you have been looking for happens.

You know, it has been said that instead of eternity being endless time,
if you take one second and snuff it out, that, what is left is
eternity&mdash;that which is not confused or distorted in anyway by any
concept of time at all. Likewise, if you take your mind and snuff out a
thought, if you abandon thinking &hellip; Atonement happens &hellip;
Oneness with God happens &hellip; you coming back into your right Mind,
happens. That&rsquo;s the profundity of it. That&rsquo;s how profound
the simplicity is.

You&rsquo;re inclined to think that if you give up your capacity to be
an authorizer, you lose your integrity, you lose your respectability,
you lose your purpose for being. But it&rsquo;s not true. You have lost
your purpose and experience of what Being really is in your attempts to
act independently and demonstrate a capacity you have to be an
authorizer in your own right.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you want peace you must abandon the teacher of attack.
</div>

What&rsquo;s the teacher of attack? It&rsquo;s that which seems to be in
you that says it has a right to assert itself and make its mark on the
world&mdash;that&rsquo;s making a mark against the world, it&rsquo;s
overriding the Teacher, it&rsquo;s acting as though you&rsquo;re out of
your mind. And thus, it&rsquo;s a state of insanity from which you
deserve to be healed.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you want peace you must abandon the teacher of attack. The Teacher of
peace will NEVER abandon you. You can desert Him, .
</div>

&ldquo;Oh-h, I&rsquo;d rather see it my way. I&rsquo;d rather do it my
way. I&rsquo;d rather define what that means!&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You can desert Him&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; but He will never reciprocate, for His faith in you IS His
understanding.
</div>

Your right Mind knows what is true and knows what is true about you and
it is His understanding. He can&rsquo;t be swayed from it no matter what
you do&mdash;He can&rsquo;t be swayed from it. And He will not abandon
you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; His understanding &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is as firm as is His faith in His Creator, and He knows that
faith in His Creator MUST encompass faith in His creation. In this
consistency lies His holiness&hellip;
</div>

You see the utter consistency, the Oneness? Absolute integrity.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In this consistency &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the absence of confusion &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; lies His holiness, which He cannot abandon, for it is not His
Will to do so. With your perfection ever in His sight, He gives the gift
of peace to everyone who perceives the need for peace, and who would
have it.
</div>

Is that you? Would you have peace and nothing else? Knowing that the
President is going to speak next Thursday at 8 p.m., are you going to be
devoted to being in front of that TV or are you going to be devoted to
your peace, whether you end up being in front of the TV or not? Who are
you serving? Who are you devoted to? What are you devoted to?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Make way for peace, and it will come. For understanding is in you, and
from it peace MUST come.
</div>

Now you don&rsquo;t see the understanding yet, but it is in you. You
really have to start believing that there&rsquo;s more to you than the
definitions you have provided yourself with about yourself.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The power of God, from which they both arise&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; peace and understanding &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is yours as surely as it is His.
</div>

The Holy Spirit&rsquo;s.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You think you know Him not only because, alone, it is impossible to know
Him.
</div>

Not difficult to understand. You think you know the Holy Spirit not
&hellip; you think you don&rsquo;t know the Holy Spirit, because alone,
in other words, as an independent authorizer &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; it is impossible to know Him.
</div>

You have diminished the Holy Spirit by saying, &ldquo;I&rsquo;m going to
rely upon myself.&rdquo; As long as you&rsquo;re relying upon yourself,
you&rsquo;re not going to lean into the Holy Spirit. You may even forget
that the Holy Spirit exists or is nothing more than your right Mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You think you know Him not only because, alone, it is impossible to know
Him. Yet see the mighty works that He will do through you, and you must
be convinced you did them through Him.
</div>

[chuckling] There is no way you&rsquo;ll be able to take credit for
them.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is impossible to deny the Source of effects so powerful they COULD
not be of you.
</div>

They could not be of you as the puny little orphan, the little
self-authorizing entity that you&rsquo;ve made up a concept of and
identified yourself as.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Leave room for Him, and you will find yourself so filled with power that
NOTHING will prevail against your peace. And this will be the test by
which you recognize that you have understood.
</div>

You know, we can sit and talk about all the things you&rsquo;d like to
be and all the things you&rsquo;d like to do, all the good you would
like to do, all the crazy fun things you would like to do, like bungee
jumping off of a bridge, or whatever. And it could seem as though
attempting all of those crazy, wonderful things are things you really
want to do and are things which will make your life meaningful.

But I ask you, you&rsquo;ve already done some of them, are you happy?
Are you yet experiencing inexplicable joy that just bubbles out of you?
Do you want to not be experiencing inexplicable joy? Are you wanting not
to experience peace that&rsquo;s unchallengeable? No, you definitely
want to experience those things.

So, I&rsquo;m encouraging you not to use your spiritual path as a means
of finding ways to do more and more stimulating crazy fun things to do, 
but rather to do the one thing which will bring you back into your right
Mind and cause you to experience joy, invulnerability,
omnipotence&mdash;not omnipotence over anything, but absolutely
inviolable stability that is unchallengeable, which therefore,
experiences nothing that can interfere with the constant eternal
experience of the awesomeness of Creation, as a participant in the
Movement of Creation, because you have decided to use your attention for
no other purpose than to look at whatever is in front of you and find
God there.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Leave room for Him, and you will find yourself so filled with power that
NOTHING will prevail against your peace.
</div>

It&rsquo;s your Birthright to be having that experience. It&rsquo;s your
Birthright to be having that experience and for everyone around you to
experience you having that experience. It&rsquo;s your Birthright to be
a transformational presence without lifting your finger and doing
anything as an independent authorizer. And that is the joy of being the
Presence of Love.

Atonement will not cause you to have an eternal experience of being that
is blah, that is dull, that is meaningless. Abandon &hellip; be willing
to abandon your thoughts and be in the silence with full attention so
that Atonement may occur and the dream can end, and the suffering can
dissolve &hellip; never to reappear.

And do it while the world goes to hell in a hand-basket. Now, I caution
you not to take that sentence strictly: Do it while the world appears to
go to hell in a hand-basket. Because it&rsquo;s not! And it can&rsquo;t!
And you don&rsquo;t have to be deluded into thinking that it can and
that it is. And it&rsquo;s time for you to be free of that delusion.
It&rsquo;s your Birthright. Do it.

And I look forward to being with you next week.

[^1]: T14.6 The Test of Truth

