---
title: Nov 2, 2008
ref: "T15.1 The Uses of Time"
alink: "/acim/text/15/chap1501/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

I cannot emphasize enough what a valuable asset each of you has in
Silence. Silence is the threshold to Home. Silence is where you shift
gears from autonomy to Union. Silence is where you abandon what
doesn&rsquo;t work in favor of what does work infilling you. Silence is
the act of giving permission instead of giving orders.

Now we&rsquo;ve talked about choosing for your peace. We&rsquo;ve talked
about moving into the Silence and we&rsquo;ve just recently explored the
fact that when you unequivocally allow yourself to be still without
agendas, without willfulness, without the slightest inclination to
assert yourself all by yourself, something happens &hellip; Atonement.
Coming Home. Going Home. Being Home.

Now, when you dare to become silent in the way I just described, what
happens? What is now absent that was before present, that before blocked
the experience of Atonement&mdash;of going Home? What&rsquo;s absent is
[chuckle] a self-assertive, declarative, authorizing presence. It can be
called, &ldquo;the ego.&rdquo; And so, when you go into the Silence,
you&rsquo;re abandoning everything that the word, &ldquo;ego&rdquo;
means, and more than the accepted psychological definition of ego.

We&rsquo;re going to be talking quite a bit about ego. It could seem
quite complicated. But at the bottom line, the absence of the ego is the
absence of thinking&mdash;the absence of assertive willfulness, the
absence of an independent presence. That&rsquo;s all. It happens that
that word, &ldquo;ego,&rdquo; does stand for a generally very unpleasant
experience. But what it will be helpful for you to remember is, that it
doesn&rsquo;t represent anything actual.

If any of you dare to become still and you experience the Silence, you
discover something: That although the awareness that you are is empty of
driving purpose, of willfulness, of the need to assert itself, awareness
is still present, you haven&rsquo;t disappeared.

When the ego disappears, you, as conscious awareness, the presence of
Mind that experiences Reality, is there. The ego that you thought was
you, once it is absent, uncovers the actuality of you, the foreverness
of you, the inviolability of you, the eternality of you, because you are
still present. And in abiding in that place of Silence,
conscious&mdash;in other words, attentive&mdash;there will always be the
spontaneous influx of illumination, clarification, understanding. That
which is nothing more than your right Mind begins to register with you
when you&rsquo;re not there making so much static, so much noise, that
you can&rsquo;t hear It. And you come back into your right Mind and you
remember God and you remember who you Are, and you remember who your
brothers and sisters Are.

So, to pull this together, there is, we&rsquo;ll say, you&mdash;the
uninterruptable conscious experience of Being that is you&mdash;which is
either filled with assertive willful acts of authorship, or which is
filled with the invitation, the emptiness which wishes to be filled by
that which is Real, that which is your right Mind, that which is the
Presence of God being all there is to you. And these two apparently
different things each use time differently and that&rsquo;s what
we&rsquo;re going to read about, that&rsquo;s what we&rsquo;re going to
discuss this evening.

And so, let&rsquo;s go into the Book.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego teaches that hell is in the FUTURE&hellip;[^1]
</div>

Of course, it teaches that everything is in the future, your good is in
the future, your wealth is in the future and depending upon how well you
do in the now you can bring it into your experience, you can bring your
good into your experience in the future. And if you&rsquo;re patient
long enough and the future arrives, you may well have what the ego has
driven you to use as your goal.

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego teaches that hell is in the FUTURE, for this is what all its
teaching is directed to. Hell is its GOAL.
</div>

Now, let&rsquo;s just be clear. When you said, &ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;d
rather see it my way &hellip; Father, I want a divorce &hellip; Father I
want to decide what everything is,&rdquo; you pulled back from Creation.
You pulled back from your participation in Creation and attempted to
stand separate, which you can&rsquo;t do. And as we have discussed
endlessly, in that act you created dissonance for yourself. Your innate
Sanity set off alarms, if you will, which you called discomfort and the
discomfort had a simple purpose, to say, &ldquo;Stop doing what
you&rsquo;re trying to do. It won&rsquo;t work.&rdquo;

If you continued anyway, your existence became fraught with tension,
fraught with problems, fraught with chaos and conflict. That&rsquo;s
what it means when it says &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Hell is its GOAL.
</div>

It means that when you are attempting to do what is impossible, you have
only one potential experience and that is one of pain, one of
discomfort, one of forever frustration and on and on.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Hell is its GOAL.
</div>

You could say hell is its consequence. And if the consequence of
something is what is inevitable, it is its goal.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For, although the ego aims at death and dissolution as an end, it does
not BELIEVE it.
</div>

You see, the goal of death, the suffering, the pain, the stress.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The goal of death, which it craves for you, leaves it unsatisfied.
</div>

Everything that you go for in your daily life without the Father,
without joining with your Source, without being aware that you have a
Source, is fraught with potential disappointment and even inevitable
disappointment somewhere along the line. Because doing things by
yourself, trying to do the impossible is something that will never
embody fulfillment actually. That is the simple fact of it.

Be willing to look at it. The simpler it is and the clearer it is, the
more quickly you will allow yourself to let go of a practice that
isn&rsquo;t benefiting you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
No-one who follows the ego&rsquo;s teaching is without the fear of
death.
</div>

And I would say is not without the fear of everything negative, the fear
of loss. I won&rsquo;t even go through the list.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
No-one who follows the ego&rsquo;s teaching is without the fear of
death.
</div>

What is the ego&rsquo;s teaching? The ego&rsquo;s teaching is think,
think, think. The ego&rsquo;s teaching is, be actively independent, make
your own decisions, learn through trial and &hellip; what? &hellip;
error, what works and what doesn&rsquo;t. And then employ the knowledge
to more skillfully control your good into your experience, even though
you won&rsquo;t be able to hold onto it because, why? it&rsquo;s not
your Birthright. It&rsquo;s not built into the system of independence.
It&rsquo;s not built into a state of being in which you&rsquo;re
disconnected from Source. It&rsquo;s like a light bulb. It can&rsquo;t
possibly become illuminated if it&rsquo;s not plugged in. As long as
it&rsquo;s not plugged in it&rsquo;s bound not to fulfill its purpose.
Simple.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
No-one who follows the ego&rsquo;s teaching &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; which is think, think, think for yourself, act for yourself, do
for yourself &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is without the fear of death. Yet if death were thought of
merely as an end to pain, would it be FEARED? We have seen this strange
paradox in the ego&rsquo;s thought system before, but never so clearly
as here. For the ego must seem to KEEP fear from you to keep your
allegiance. Yet it must ENGENDER fear in order to maintain ITSELF.
</div>

Well, in order to maintain itself it must be that which originally said,
&ldquo;Father, I want a divorce, I would rather make decisions for
myself.&rdquo; That act engendered fear and in order to maintain its
independence, it must keep fear going. It&rsquo;s that simple.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Again the ego tries, and all too frequently succeeds, in doing both, by
using dissociation for holding its contradictory aims together so that
they SEEM to be reconciled.
</div>

You see. Think, think, think for yourself and be independent.
Demonstrate your independence by thinking by yourself, thinking
logically by yourself, coming to logical conclusions by yourself, making
decisions based on those logical conclusions by yourself. You know when
you do that, that you&rsquo;re uncomfortable, there is tension, there is
fear, there is doubt, there is an ever-present, overriding absolutely
clear sense of your mortality.

Now, the act of abandoning Silence, the act of thinking and engaging in
all of this willful activity is to cause fear. So, that is the goal,
that is the inevitable effect, the unavoidable effect. Well now, how to
keep you doing something that has such an unavoidably disastrous ending?
Ah-h! It does it by not telling you that you should stop thinking and
acting independently. It tells you that because you can think, you have
the capacity to overcome the fear. You see.

So it holds its contradictory aims together. The one aim is to keep you
in a state of ongoing conflict. And the other is to keep you from
abandoning it by suggesting to you that the very thing that is creating
the conflict can be used to overcome it. You see? It covers its
&ldquo;you know what&rdquo; from both directions, seeming to make it all
fit together for opposites to be reconciled, for what can&rsquo;t work,
to seem to be workable.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego teaches thus: Death is the end as far as hope of Heaven goes.
Yet because you and itself cannot be separated, and because it cannot
conceive of its OWN death, it will pursue you still&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you see, it comes up with a very creative, imaginative story
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; because it cannot conceive of its OWN death, it will pursue you
still, because guilt is eternal. Such is the ego&rsquo;s version of
immortality. And it is this the ego&rsquo;s version of time supports.
</div>

Again, time doesn&rsquo;t support or not support anything. But it is
this the ego&rsquo;s version of time supports, the ego&rsquo;s
definition of time, the meaning the ego gives to time supports this
fantasy. And when you don&rsquo;t realize that the solution is so
simple, that all you have to do is stop thinking, that all you have to
do is to go into the Silence, when you don&rsquo;t realize that,
you&rsquo;re caught. And the fear keeps the engine going. The fear makes
you think harder. The fear makes you try to be more creative in your
thinking, more creative in your independence. And the engine keeps the
illusion going, when the solution is to shut up! It&rsquo;s so simple.
The solution is to go into the Silence.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego teaches that Heaven is here and now because the FUTURE is hell.
Even when it attacks so savagely that it tries to take the life of
someone who hears it temporarily as the ONLY voice, it speaks of hell
even to him. For it tells him hell is HERE, and bids him leap from hell
into oblivion.
</div>

You see, the ego will say anything that can be used to motivate you to
do what it wants, which is to stay in fear but think that you can get
out of it, and that by depending upon the ego, you will experience
salvation. You see.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[Gong back to the 1st paragraph] The ego teaches that hell is in the
FUTURE&hellip;
</div>

And the ego tells him &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; hell is HERE, and bids him leap from hell into oblivion.
</div>

You see. And to those who are caught up in the need to be actors, those
taking action, those being authoritative and exercising authority,
it&rsquo;s very hard not to take the direction when the ego says that
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; hell is HERE, and bids him leap from hell into oblivion.
</div>

&ldquo;Yes! Yes! Do anything to get out of the dire straights that
I&rsquo;m in, to get out of the hell that I&rsquo;m in. I&rsquo;ve got
to do something. I have to take action,&rdquo; . . when the exact
opposite is the answer.

Value your peace. Value this incredible asset which is yours, which is
Silence, stillness. No matter how rugged things become, the answer is
still going to arise out of the peace you choose for and move into.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The only time the ego allows anyone to look upon with some amount of
equanimity is the past.
</div>

The ego uses time&mdash;the present and the future&mdash;to scare you to
death and manipulate you. But the past &hellip; it will allow you to
look upon with some amount of equanimity.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And even there, its only value is that it is no more.
</div>

Now again, we are talking about, the ego does this and the ego does
that. What that means is, that the thinking processes that you identify
as a self&mdash;that which disappears when you genuinely let yourself
into the Silence&mdash;has these effects. That&rsquo;s all it means. So
don&rsquo;t keep thinking of the ego as a self-directed, intelligent
presence which simply is negative in it&rsquo;s approach to life.
That&rsquo;s giving it too much credit. It&rsquo;s not a presence at
all. It&rsquo;s just a habit of a poor use of mind. That&rsquo;s all it
is. And that&rsquo;s why when you choose to value Silence, and to the
best of your ability throughout your day, you try to attend to your
affairs from that place of peace instead of the habitual place of
reaction, that is what will move you into the experience of Atonement.

Again, it&rsquo;s that simple.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
How bleak and despairing is the ego&rsquo;s use of time! And how
terrifying!
</div>

How bleak and despairing is the experience of being a self-created
thinker, that&rsquo;s what it means. Bring it into these terms so that
it will begin to be easier for you to lay down that use of your mind.
And lay it down in the middle of your daily activities, in your
so-called secular life.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
How bleak and despairing is the ego&rsquo;s use of time! And how
terrifying! For underneath its fanatical insistence that the past and
future be the same is hidden a far more insidious threat to peace.
</div>

And I&rsquo;m going to add &hellip; which it won&rsquo;t divulge to you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego does not advertise its final threat, for it would have its
worshippers still believe that it can offer the ESCAPE from it.
</div>

In other words, the thinking mind would offer that it can provide you
escape from your problem, the ultimate threat, through the use of your
thinking&mdash;your capacity to think.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
But the belief in guilt &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and here&rsquo;s the secret that the ego would keep from you
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the belief in guilt MUST lead to the belief in hell, AND ALWAYS
DOES.
</div>

The choice to be an independent authorizer&mdash;&ldquo;But Father,
I&rsquo;d rather do it myself&rdquo;&mdash;will always and can only (and
I&rsquo;m using this word very loosely) generate an experience of utter
futility, of forever failure and for uninterrupted suffering of one form
or another. Suffering &hellip; because there&rsquo;s this tension
brought on by your innate divine sanity that is telling you that
you&rsquo;re trying to do something impossible. And the answer is
&hellip; the simple answer is, to just stop it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The only way in which the ego allows the fear of hell to be experienced
&hellip;
</div>

The fear of hell, not hell itself.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is to bring hell HERE, but always as a foretaste of the
future. For no-one who considers himself as deserving hell can believe
that punishment will end in peace.
</div>

If you&rsquo;re not going to Wake up, this is all you&rsquo;re faced
with. If you&rsquo;re not going to break the habit, if you&rsquo;re not
going to get off the merry-go-round, then put this book away, leave God
outside and live this thrilling life from which you manage to get a few
thrills, a little bit of excitement, an occasional pleasure. Or, do the
simple thing&mdash;just do the simple thing: Choose for your peace.
Actually recognize what a great asset your peace is and then value it
enough to take hold of it, to do what brings it into your conscious
experience. And then consistently and persistently be &ldquo;in the
world&rdquo; from there, because it&rsquo;s only in this way that
&ldquo;the world&rdquo; will become revealed to you as Heaven,
misperceived by you as &ldquo;the world,&rdquo; not heaven when you were
defining everything yourself and being an independent, sourceless
thinker.

Now, on the other hand &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit teaches thus: There IS no hell. Hell is only what the
ego &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what? The horrible ego? No. The act of thinking. Just simply
the act of thinking on your own.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Hell is only what the ego has made of the PRESENT.
</div>

Hell is only what the process of independent thinking has made out of
the Kingdom of Heaven &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the PRESENT. The belief in hell &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the belief in all the definitions that you have come up with
and that your ancestors came up with and passed on down to you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is what prevents you from UNDERSTANDING the present&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning the Kingdom of Heaven &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; because you are AFRAID of it.
</div>

Why are you afraid of understanding the present? Well, it&rsquo;s not so
much that you&rsquo;re afraid of understanding the present as it is that
you&rsquo;re afraid to let go of the control you&rsquo;re exercising to
save your ass, because you are convinced that you are a mortal doomed to
failure, who however, through the excellent use of thinking, can make a
halfway decent experience of life for yourself. And you are afraid to
embrace the sense of vulnerability that you are sure you&rsquo;ll be
faced with if you abandon the control, if you go into the Silence
without an agenda. Without an agenda? You can&rsquo;t afford to be
without an agenda! Everyone else with their agendas will override you in
your weakness, in the absence of your strength and the strength of your
agenda for yourself to survive.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit leads as steadily to Heaven as the ego drives to hell.
For the Holy Spirit, Who knows ONLY the present, uses it to undo the
fear by which the ego would make the present useless.
</div>

[chuckling] More than making the present useless, it makes the
present/Kingdom of Heaven useless/just the world &hellip; just the
world.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is NO escape from fear in the ego&rsquo;s use of time.
</div>

There is no escape from fear in the thinking mind&rsquo;s use of time.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For time, according to its teaching, is nothing but a teaching device
for COMPOUNDING guilt until it becomes all-encompassing, and demands
vengeance forever.
</div>

Now there is a God. And the Father would not leave you comfortless. And
the Father would not leave you trapped, caught in a self-perpetuating
movement of self-destruction, whose whole purpose and function is to
accomplish its goal.

And so there is the Holy Spirit. And there are those Teachers who have
been willing to be touched by the Holy Spirit, touched by God, who were
willing to abandon their thinking and to succumb to, yield completely to
that which was beyond their thinking. Those who valued peace enough to
get past the thinking and be a window, you might say, into the dream so
that the truth might be presented and register with you so that you will
not be caught in a self-defeating movement with an inevitable and
unavoidable ending.

But do be aware that there are two paths and the end results are
unavoidable. What do I mean by that? Do I mean that the ego, or do I
mean that evil is as powerful as God and could in the end be victorious,
accomplish absolute self-destruction? No, I don&rsquo;t mean that,
because it couldn&rsquo;t. Because it isn&rsquo;t Real. And that&rsquo;s
one of the reasons that you need to hear and know that there is an
answer to it. That it isn&rsquo;t inevitable, that it is not actual as
in an actually created presence. And that you do not have to be bound to
it. And that you have a choice and can make a choice for that which is
inevitable and will succeed, if I may put it that way&hellip; will bear
witness to the truth, uncovering it completely.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit would undo all of this NOW.
</div>

All of the compounding of guilt for the purpose of building it into an
all-encompassing demand for vengeance forever.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit would undo all of this NOW. Fear is NOT of the present,
but only of the past and future, which do not exist.
</div>

And of course the past and the future are one of the concoctions of the
thinking mind&mdash;the independent, self-affirmed authorities.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is no fear in the present when each instant stands clear and
separated from the past&hellip;
</div>

Now I know that makes it sound as though it stands clear and separated
from the past and so there are two things. But I promise you that when
you allow yourself to be still&mdash;present in the moment without
memory&mdash;then your full conscious awareness of the moment is just
that &hellip; full conscious awareness of the moment. It&rsquo;s pure.
It&rsquo;s flawless. It&rsquo;s Heaven not encumbered, not colored by,
not biased by memory. It&rsquo;s you being in the moment with God.
Let&rsquo;s say, it&rsquo;s you being in the Movement with
God&mdash;co-creators, if you will.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is no fear in the present when each instant stands clear and
separated from the past, without its shadow reaching out into the
future. Each instant is a clean, untarnished birth, in which the Son of
God emerges from the past into the present. And the present extends
forever. It is so beautiful and so clean and free of guilt that nothing
but happiness is there.
</div>

Now why is it clean and free of guilt so that nothing but happiness is
there? Because one simple thing has happened: Thinking has ceased.
Silence desired and embraced prevails. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
No darkness is remembered, and immortality and joy are NOW.
</div>

Why? Because Silence has been valued and embraced right in the middle of
your day. You don&rsquo;t have to go to a Synagogue, you don&rsquo;t
have to be in a church or a temple or a hovel or a cave. You can be in
any one of those places and any of all of the rest of the places in the
universe that you can get to. The point is to be present in the now,
thoughtlessly in the Silence. Why? Because you want to experience more
than you presently know.

Remember we talked about the fact that the only thing that limits the
Holy Spirit in His function of bringing the remembrance of who you Are
to your awareness, is the degree to which you think you know. And to the
degree that you think you know, you&rsquo;re not receptive and the Holy
Spirit cannot address you.

So the key is to value not knowing. The key is&mdash;let&rsquo;s turn it
a little bit to make it more inviting&mdash;the key is to want to know
more than you presently know. As I&rsquo;ve said before, &ldquo;What is
the more of God that is here in what I see? What is it of actual
Creation that is here for me to see, in everything that I thought was
just the world?&rdquo; That curiosity constitutes opening the door of
your mind to go beyond what you presently know.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This lesson takes NO time. For what is time without a past and future?
It HAS taken time to misguide you so completely, but it takes no time at
all to be what you ARE.
</div>

[chuckling] It takes no time to be what you Are. If there&rsquo;s
anything that will take time, it is how long it takes you to stop being
what you aren&rsquo;t. And you can do that by choosing for your peace
and meditating and going into the Silence and valuing the Silence more
than just a means of lowering high blood pressure or having a moment of
transcendence of escape from this place, where you can come back to this
place and tolerate it a little bit better because of the bliss you
experienced. It&rsquo;s more than that. It&rsquo;s not a temporary
salve&mdash;Silence isn&rsquo;t. It is the threshold of Atonement. It is
the threshold of understanding. It is the threshold of discovering the
Kingdom of Heaven all around you now, today, here &ldquo;in the
world.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Begin to practice the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s use of time as a teaching aid
to happiness and peace. Take this very instant, NOW, and think of it as
ALL THERE IS of time. Nothing can reach you here out of the past, and it
is here that you are COMPLETELY absolved, COMPLETELY free, and WHOLLY
without condemnation.
</div>

You see. It is here that Atonement occurs. It is here in the moment in
the Silence that you Wake up. Value it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
From this holy instant wherein holiness was born again you will go forth
in time without fear, and with no sense of change WITH time.
</div>

Threshold &hellip; threshold &hellip; threshold &hellip; the threshold
of Awakening goes with you wherever you go because it&rsquo;s in where?
Your choice between autonomous authority and the static of it, and the
Silence in which Awakening and Atonement can occur.

I love you. I love you. I love all of you including all of you who are
joining us on the internet, and I look forward to being with you next
week.

[^1]: T15.1 The Uses of Time

