---
title: Nov 9, 2008
ref: "T15.1 The Uses of Time"
alink: "/acim/text/15/chap1501/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

Well, we&rsquo;ve come down to two rather simple things: The moment and
Silence. The mind that is silent is not preoccupied with imagination
about a future and it&rsquo;s not preoccupied with memories of the past.
Time is not present in the now.

So, I want to ask something: What is the best use that you can put the
moment to&mdash;any moment that you&rsquo;re in? Very simply, it&rsquo;s
to bring out the excellence of the moment you&rsquo;re in, to have as
your desire, if I can put it this way, to exercise the capacity to bring
out the excellence of that moment.

This means that, if you have been in the process of getting ready to go
somewhere and the cat makes a mess on the floor, you have the choice of
getting upset about it, of beginning to think, and think in terms of
time. &ldquo;Oh boy, this is gonna hold me up. I&rsquo;m going to be
late. So-and-so&rsquo;s going to be upset.&rdquo; Oh boy, does the
imagination begin to go and create a scenario of reaction, perhaps fear,
anger, frustration. But you have to clean up the mess. You can&rsquo;t
leave it there till you come home.

So, what are you going to do? Are you going to enter into this moment,
be in this moment grousing about it, frustrated, angry, venting your
anger, perhaps yelling at the cat? Or are you going to try to bring out
the excellence of the moment? There&rsquo;s a task to be done. Maybe you
didn&rsquo;t plan on it, but it&rsquo;s there. And you have the choice
to do it with excellence.

Have you ever noticed that when someone loves to clean&mdash;clean house
or clean anything&mdash;when they finish, it is different than when
someone who hates to clean finishes their job. You can see and feel and
enjoy the excellence, literally, of what they&rsquo;ve done. Because
&hellip; why? Because they love what they&rsquo;re doing. So, in the
moment, you have the choice to love what is in front of you to do and
be, or you have the choice to start rolling the tapes and become
reactive.

What are you here for?

[Softer voice] What are you here for? You&rsquo;re here to desire to
uncover and experience, and I&rsquo;m going to say, exhibit, disclose
the excellence of the moment&mdash;to be the excellence; to illuminate
the excellence; to do what you love; to do what you do with love so that
what you&rsquo;re doing blesses everyone &hellip; so that it is a
blessing.

Two prayers we&rsquo;ve discussed before: &ldquo;I wish to see the
evidence of Love&rdquo; and &ldquo;I wish to be the evidence of
Love.&rdquo; Is this what you&rsquo;re embodying all day? If it becomes
your practice, you will find that you&rsquo;ll go through your day doing
whatever needs to be done with willingness and with a warmth and even an
affection, because you&rsquo;re exploring being in a new way that, as I
said, has blessing as its goal.

When you are choosing to bring out the excellence of the moment
you&rsquo;re in, your attention is where you are and your attention is
on doing what you&rsquo;re doing and doing it with love. There&rsquo;s
no way to think in that process, and therefore, there&rsquo;s no way to
bring time into that process. And therefore, there is no way to suffer
from the inevitable effect of the practice of time, which as we&rsquo;ve
talked about, is guilt and fear.

The moment&mdash;the now and Silence, together in a context of wishing
to be the evidence of Love and wishing to see the evidence of
Love&mdash;constitutes an active relationship with the moment
you&rsquo;re in, an active relationship framed in an intent: the wish to
see the evidence of Love and the wish to be the evidence of Love without
having any preconception about what being the evidence of Love is going
to look like.

This is something you can practice all day long every day because every
single moment you&rsquo;re in, no matter what is happening, is a moment
in which its excellence can be brought out.

It&rsquo;s not just a world. It&rsquo;s not just the effect of a Big
Bang. It&rsquo;s the Kingdom of Heaven. And Its excellence is there to
be seen and brought forward, exhibited, expressed. And that&rsquo;s your
function. And when you let yourself into that moment, absent all
preconceptions, absent thinking, absent fear, the past and the future
vanish &hellip; literally vanish. They are swallowed up in the
experience of Eternity.

I&rsquo;m going to suggest that the changelessness of real Being
doesn&rsquo;t lie in nothing happening. It lies in your discovering your
capacity to bring forth and be from excellence, unvaryingly, where you
don&rsquo;t change your mind and say, &ldquo;Yes Father, yes Father,
this is incredible. Creation is awesome&rdquo;&hellip; and then say,
&ldquo;Oh, well, but I&rsquo;m going to make a little change here.
I&rsquo;m going to make a little change there. This is what this means.
That is what that means.&rdquo;

You see, there&rsquo;s no shifting from one position to
another&mdash;from being the Son of God or the Daughter of God to being
an orphan. That which is changeless and has forever been, is your
capacity to be the consciousness of Reality, to be the conscious
awareness of &hellip; what? Creation. But not just Creation, the
movement of Creation&mdash;and to changelessly be that conscious
experience.

This is very important. Let&rsquo;s go into the book.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Time is inconceivable without change&hellip;[^1]
</div>

It takes time for change to happen, right?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Time is inconceivable without change&hellip;
</div>

We could say, change is inconceivable without time.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; yet holiness does not change. Learn from this instant more than
merely hell does not exist.
</div>

[Chuckling] There&rsquo;s so much more to learn from the moment, from
the now, than merely hell does not exist.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Learn from this instant more than merely hell does not exist. In this
redeeming instant lies Heaven. And Heaven will not change, for the birth
into the holy present &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is SALVATION from change. Change is an illusion, taught by
those who could not see themselves as guiltless.
</div>

Creation isn&rsquo;t an illusion, though. And the forever movement of
Creation is not an illusion. And the eternal omnipresent conscious
experience of Creation happening, is not an illusion. That you can
observe it in two different ways, that is the illusion! That you have a
choice to see it as God sees it, as God&rsquo;s Offspring, from Whom God
has withheld nothing, or as an orphan, that&rsquo;s an illusion. You
don&rsquo;t have that choice. But you&rsquo;re caught in having made
that imaginative choice and having fooled yourself into making
commitment to that mindset.

The change that you experience will be lost. The capacity to change,
like a chameleon, from a Son or Daughter with a Birthright to an orphan
with no Birthright &hellip; you will lose that capacity. You don&rsquo;t
want that capacity! You didn&rsquo;t know there was a choice because
you&rsquo;ve forgotten. But there is a choice and I keep telling you
about it. Therefore you know about it, whether you&rsquo;re opting for
letting go of the illusion or not.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Change is an illusion, taught by those who could not see themselves as
guiltless.
</div>

You see? &ldquo;But Father, I&rsquo;d rather do it myself.&rdquo;
&ldquo;But Father, I&rsquo;d rather see it my way.&rdquo; Oh boy, there
came the discomfort. There came the gnawing feeling that
something&rsquo;s out of kilter &hellip;whew &hellip; guilt.
&ldquo;Something&rsquo;s wrong.&rdquo; &ldquo;I&rsquo;m the thing
that&rsquo;s wrong!&rdquo; &ldquo;I&rsquo;m the thing that&rsquo;s
wrong, but I can do something about it and I&rsquo;m going to do
something about it.&rdquo; &ldquo;It may take awhile for me to overcome
this feeling. It may take time &hellip; but I&rsquo;m going to do
it.&rdquo;

Taking that stance is the means by which time, as an illusion but
nevertheless experienceable, happened&mdash;came into being. But
here&rsquo;s the truth:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is no change in Heaven because there is no change in God. In the
holy instant &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the moment, now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; in which you see yourself as bright with freedom, you WILL
remember God. For remembering Him IS to remember freedom.
</div>

&ldquo;Well gee, that sounds nice&rdquo; &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; In the holy instant in which you see yourself as bright with
freedom, you WILL remember God.
</div>

Well, you might say, &ldquo;Well, fat chance [chuckling] that I&rsquo;m
going to experience the holy instant in which I see myself as bright
with freedom. You know, that&rsquo;s not my lot in life. That&rsquo;s
not the way things work.&rdquo; But I&rsquo;m telling you it is. And the
experience awaits you if you make the choice to be in the moment with
the desire to bring forth the excellence of that moment&mdash;the real
divine excellence of that moment&mdash;which, in that moment, you are
seeing in a distorted fashion.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In the holy instant in which you see yourself as bright with freedom,
you WILL remember God. For remembering Him IS to remember freedom.
</div>

Why do you think you&rsquo;re uncomfortable every day with the way
things are? Because in spite of your amnesia you feel your right to be
free, to be free from the limitations of sin, sickness and death.

Now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Whenever you are tempted to be dispirited by the thought of how long it
would take to change your mind so completely, ask yourself, "How long is
an instant?"
</div>

And this is important. You&rsquo;re so used to thinking in terms of
time, and that it takes time to do things &hellip; that it always has
and it always will. Has/will, past/future. See? You&rsquo;re thinking
&ldquo;time&rdquo; in your description of your dilemma. But how long is
an instant? The reason to ask that is because it moves you out of
thinking in linear time.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
"How long is an instant?"
</div>

Well, it just is &ldquo;the moment.&rdquo; It&rsquo;s the moment of
conscious experience. Now, remember, what you imagine is gonna happen in
the future and what you remember in your memory of the past, those are
both head-trips, aren&rsquo;t they? They&rsquo;re not actualities. They
are not experienceable. But the now is an experience. Now is Real. Now
is the conscious experience of Reality, the Kingdom of Heaven. It has an
excellence to be illuminated, to be consciously experienced.

Now remember, because we&rsquo;ve talked about this before &ldquo;in the
past&rdquo; &hellip; past to future is not an unbroken line. At what you
could call the junction between the past and the future, there is a gap.
That gap is &ldquo;the moment.&rdquo; That gap is the instant. You think
of it as an instant of time. But I&rsquo;m telling you that the instant
is, itself, timelessness. The instant is Eternity, Itself.

If you take that instant that you define as a moment &ldquo;in
time,&rdquo; and snuff it out &hellip; in other words, if you take the
space that exists between the past and the future and you let it be a
space instead of part of an unbroken line, that&rsquo;s the snuffing out
of the instant. That&rsquo;s the snuffing out of time. You don&rsquo;t
snuff out endless-time-from-the-past-to-the-future. You only snuff out,
devalue, invalidate the moment of &ldquo;time&rdquo; that you have
imagined that the present instant is. What you do is, you snuff out the
belief, the definition you made up: &ldquo;But Father, I&rsquo;d rather
decide what things are.&rdquo; You snuff out the definition you made up
about the instant-of-conscious-experience, not head-trip, that
you&rsquo;re having.

So that&rsquo;s why the question is important.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
"How long is an instant?"
</div>

So, again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Whenever you are tempted to be dispirited by the thought of how long it
would take to change your mind so completely, ask yourself, "How long is
an instant?" Could you not give so short a time to the Holy Spirit for
your salvation?
</div>

Well, of course you could. You didn&rsquo;t know that&rsquo;s all it
would take. But you do now. That&rsquo;s all it would take.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He asks no more, for He has no need of more. It takes far longer to
teach you how to be willing to give Him this than for Him to use this
tiny instant to offer you the whole of Heaven. In exchange for this
instant, He stands ready to give you the remembrance of eternity.
</div>

That&rsquo;s because the instant is not a moment of &ldquo;time,&rdquo;
and is, itself, Eternity. The past is an illusion and the future is an
illusion, and you have created an imaginary bridge between the two. The
bridge traverses an empty space&mdash;timelessness or Eternity. And so,
when you let yourself into that, the experience of Eternity rushes in on
you, fills you up, and the experience of Creation registers with you.
And you find that whether you&rsquo;re cleaning up cat poop or whether
you&rsquo;re driving to your meeting or whatever you might be doing,
there&rsquo;s excellence to it&mdash;excellence that is awesome, divine
excellence that embodies and exhibits the fullness of divinity, the
fullness of That which is perfect.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You will never give this holy instant to the Holy Spirit on behalf of
your release while you are unwilling to give it to your brothers on
behalf of THEIRS.
</div>

Oh, that&rsquo;s right! Inseparable from being in the moment with a
desire to illuminate the excellence of the moment, there has to be a
caring. There has to be a desire to not only see the evidence of Love,
but to be the evidence of Love&mdash;to be without holding to yourself
the right to be pissed off if the occasion calls for it, or to be
frustrated with your brother if the occasion calls for it. You know,
whether it&rsquo;s the poop your cat left on the floor or it&rsquo;s an
encounter with a brother, it&rsquo;s the same thing&mdash;the
opportunity and the demand to bring out the excellence of the moment; to
behave, to act in a way that really does embody Love and really does
uncover and illuminate the excellence of the Kingdom of Heaven, which is
going on no matter what it looks like.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You will never give this holy instant to the Holy Spirit on behalf of
your release while you are unwilling to give it to your brothers on
behalf of THEIRS. For the instant of holiness is shared, and cannot be
yours alone.
</div>

The instant, minus the past and the future, is Eternity. It&rsquo;s also
Infinity. It&rsquo;s the constant conscious experience of all of
Reality, all at once. In other words, none of Creation is excluded or
hidden or obscured, or more or less than. The only way to say it is,
that it is shared.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Remember, then, when you are tempted to attack a brother, that HIS
instant of release is YOURS. Miracles are the instants of release you
offer, and will RECEIVE.
</div>

So, when you offer an instant of release, when you offer a miracle by
saying, &ldquo;Father, what is the more of Reality, what is the more of
what you&rsquo;re Being here than what I&rsquo;m seeing?&rdquo;
isn&rsquo;t that the act of wanting to uncover the excellence of your
brother, the excellence of the moment? Yes! And when you offer that by
letting it in and sharing it, you get to keep it.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Miracles are the instants of release you offer, and will RECEIVE. They
attest to your willingness to BE released, and to offer time to the Holy
Spirit for His use of it. How long is an instant? It is as short for
your brother as it is for you. Practice giving this blessed instant of
freedom to all who are enslaved by time, and thus make time their friend
FOR them. The Holy Spirit gives their blessed instant to YOU through
your giving it. As you give it, He offers it to YOU.
</div>

Boy! The now is pretty packed. Silence is your greatest asset. It occurs
only in the now. And now is packed with all of Creation and your
conscious experience of who you truly Are. And it&rsquo;s available to
you when you&rsquo;re willing to embrace two &ldquo;tiny&rdquo; things,
you might say: (1) Silence and (2) the moment you&rsquo;re in&mdash;the
moment of conscious experience that you&rsquo;re in.

It all boils down to attention. It doesn&rsquo;t boil down to a set of
thoughts, or a set of ideas, or a theory, or a recipe. The escape from
the human condition is utterly simple.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Be not unwilling to give what you would receive of Him&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; for you join with Him in giving. In the crystal cleanness of
the release you give &hellip;

In the crystal cleanness of the release you give is your
INSTANTANEOUS escape from guilt. You MUST be holy if you offer holiness.
</div>

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
How long is an instant? As long as it takes to re-establish perfect
sanity, perfect peace, and perfect love for everyone, for God, and for
YOURSELF. As long as it takes to remember immortality, and your immortal
creations who share it with you. As long as it takes to exchange hell
for Heaven. Long enough to transcend all of the ego&rsquo;s making, and
ascend unto your Father.
</div>

Well, [chuckling] I bet you listen to that list and think it&rsquo;s
talking about how long it will take, how much time it will take. No.
What it&rsquo;s saying is that when you take this moment, now, and stop
applying your definition to it&mdash;that it is an instant of
time&mdash;everything, all of these things are, for lack of better
words, added on to you. [Whispering] What? Instantaneously. You see?

To experience a lot does not take time. You parse it out as it
were&mdash;the conscious experience of being&mdash;and spread it on a
time-line. But it isn&rsquo;t really there. And it&rsquo;s your
Birthright to be free of that illusion. And it only takes two simple
things to be free of the illusion: The now&mdash;the moment, the
instant&mdash;and [whispering] Silence.

Silence is the crystal cleanness of the release.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Time is your friend, if you leave it to the Holy Spirit to use.
</div>

How is the Holy Spirit going to use time? The Holy Spirit is going to
take the instant of &ldquo;time,&rdquo; which is your definition
&hellip; it is going to take the instant of &ldquo;time&rdquo; and
redefine it as the holy instant, that which has nothing to do with past
or future, that which is the little gap between the past and the future,
which is, itself, Eternity. The Holy Spirit&rsquo;s use of time is to
snuff it out, which means to snuff out, in your mind, that which causes
you to be caught in your imagination, to be caught in insanity.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Time is your friend, if you leave it to the Holy Spirit to use &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that which is nothing more than your right Mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He needs but very little to restore God&rsquo;s whole power to you. He
Who transcends time for you understands what time is FOR.
</div>

[Chuckling] Time is for abandonment! It is the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s
intent to bring your attention out of the past and the future into the
moment you&rsquo;re in. In fact, the cat pooping on the rug serves that
purpose very well&mdash;gets you out of time. It may frustrate you, but
it gets you out of time and forces you to pay attention in the moment
and deal with the moment. That&rsquo;s the first step. The second step
is to choose to bring out the excellence of the moment, so that you
bring love to what you are doing and the best darn cleaning job that
could ever have been done, that is a pleasure for anyone to see.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Holiness lies not in time, but in eternity.
</div>

In the little gap, in the instant that isn&rsquo;t time at all.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There never was an instant in which God&rsquo;s Son could lose his
purity.
</div>

And I will add, and therefore you haven&rsquo;t.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
His changeless state is beyond time, for his purity remains forever
beyond attack and without variability.
</div>

Your changeless state is beyond time. What&rsquo;s your changeless
state? It&rsquo;s that which is actually incapable of vacillating back
and forth between real legitimate child with a Birthright and an
illegitimate orphan. You don&rsquo;t really have that as a real choice.

Your &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
changeless state is beyond time, for &hellip;
</div>

your &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
purity remains forever beyond attack and without variability.
Time stands still in his &hellip;
</div>

your &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
holiness, and changes not. And so it is no longer time at all.
</div>

It&rsquo;s the conscious experience of Eternity.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For, caught in the single instant of the eternal sanctity of God&rsquo;s
creation&hellip;
</div>

See, that&rsquo;s what the instant is. It&rsquo;s not an instant of
&ldquo;time,&rdquo; part of a movement from past to future, it is
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the single instant of the eternal sanctity of God&rsquo;s
creation&hellip;
</div>

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For, caught in the single instant of the eternal sanctity of God&rsquo;s
creation, it is transformed into forever. GIVE the eternal instant, that
eternity may be remembered FOR you, in that shining instant of perfect
release.
</div>

How does that shining instant of perfect release occur? Again&hellip;
simply. It occurs when you allow your attention to be fully in the
moment, paying attention without any thinking, reasoning, calculating,
but just pure awareness, just being purely aware in a context of wishing
to experience the excellence of the moment so that you might share it
with your brothers who are not experiencing the sanctity of the instant
themselves.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Offer the miracle of the holy instant through the Holy Spirit, and leave
His giving it to you to Him.
</div>

Be willing to use the now and the silence for the purpose of extending
the consciousness of excellence to your brother and to everything, and
Atonement will occur.

Silence is yours to experience.

The now is unavoidable.

You have no need of skill to experience the now.

And your brothers and sisters and everything are ever-present.

All of the essentials are present. Be willing now to use time as the
Holy Spirit would use it, to let go of time in an act of Love. In that,
Atonement will be yours.

Now, that&rsquo;s your practice, if I may put it that way, for the
coming week. You have what seem to you to be an endless string of
instants, moments, even though there&rsquo;s really only one. So you
will not run out of ample opportunity to let yourself into the instant.
Silence is constantly available to you. And constant interaction with
your world and your brothers are unavoidable. Your spiritual practice
lies in using those three things for the purpose of Waking up&mdash;not
rising above those three things, not working hard to better your life
through manipulations and physical practices. No. Here and now the world
that you&rsquo;re in is, for lack of better words, the crucible, the
&ldquo;environment crucible.&rdquo; Sounds like hard work, but
it&rsquo;s the environment which allows for Awakening.

For many, an event of some excellence seems to have occurred during the
last week. Someone who finds ways to illuminate the excellence of the
moment seems to be on the world stage. I&rsquo;m waiting for the rest of
you to embody that.

We will call this coming week: Illuminating Excellence Week. It&rsquo;s
really rather nitty-gritty, down-to-earth, practical: cleaning up poop,
driving on the freeway, dealing with a brother, getting caught in a
traffic jam. Everything provides the opportunity for bringing out the
excellence of the moment, so that as a result of your illuminating
excellence, the world is blessed. You make the gift and Atonement
occurs.

So, let&rsquo;s do it. No longer can you pretend that illuminating
excellence and experiencing the Kingdom of Heaven is somewhere else,
another time, another dimension. It is right here. You have all you need
to Wake up this week.

[Addressing everyone] I love you, I love you, I love you, I love you, I
love you, I love you, and I look forward to being with you next week.

[^1]: T15.1 The Uses of Time

