---
title: Foreword 
nxt: /nwffacim/grad/g010491/
prev: /nwffacim/grad/g000002/
---

This book will perhaps be the most difficult book you have ever read
because it squarely calls the ego into question and gives you direction
and encouragement regarding the only way to release it. It is not
designed to be difficult. In fact, you will find the reading easy,
palatable. The words will not be difficult to understand, but the
movement they will create in you will.

This book will require you to move beyond understanding and dare to live
from there! It brings the principles of *A Course in Miracles* into bold
relief, whether you are a Course student or not. It brings the
principles of Christian Science into bold relief, whether you are a
student or not. It brings the principles of Life into bold relief,
whether you are avoiding It or not. It addresses you in terms of your
divinity and says, wake up! And it addresses you in the language of your
humanity so that you might comprehend it.

I have stated that there are five major books of the modern world which
address the divinity of man and facilitate his realization of
Reality—his Awakening. The first is *Science and Health* by Mary Baker
Eddy. The second is *The Urantia Book*. The third is *A Course
in Miracles*. The fourth is *Graduation: The End of Illusions*,
and the fifth is yet to appear.

I make this statement in order to save you time, and not as a claim to
greatness. In all ways this book embodies the nature and character of
the last stages of Awakening. Whether you find it applicable to you or
not, the time will come when its truth will be confirming of your own
unexplainable experiences of Awakening, allowing you thereby to move
with less distraction into your primitive (original) Sanity—the
Conscious experience of Creation as God is being It. It is my gift to
you, and Your gift to yourself.

Enjoy!

Rajpur

Princeville, Hawaii

June 29, 1991

