---
title: Author’s Note 
nxt: /nwffacim/grad/g000003/
prev: /nwffacim/grad/g000001/
---

The word “author,” as you will find, is a misnomer, since this book is a
channeled work. But being the one with the mouth, the voice, the fingers
to type the material, and the willingness to do it, it has fallen to me
to give you some background.

In February of 1982, with no prior knowledge of channeling or of
spiritual guides, but with a crisis on my hands, I reached out for help
in meditation/prayer. The result, after two weeks of earnest listening,
was the surprising experience of “hearing” words from someone who
identified himself as Rajpur, my Guide. These early conversations became
the book, *You Are The Answer*, published in 1985.

In November of 1982 a friend handed me a copy of 
*A Course in Miracles* to see what I
thought of it. After browsing through it, I asked Raj who wrote
it—meaning, should I accept the premise of the statements of the Course
that the author was Jesus. His answer was, “I did.” It was in this way
that Raj disclosed his real identity, later stating that if he had told
me who he really was at the time of our first conversation, we would
never have had a second conversation. I continue to call him Raj because
it helps me be real with him, having discovered that my concepts and
beliefs about Jesus are absolute impediments to relating genuinely. He
has not objected.

During the years between then and now, my life has changed drastically.
In February of 1983, at Raj’s direction, we began doing private
conversations with Raj, which became my full-time “work.” This led to
the publication of a newsletter, Conversations with Raj, and in August
of 1985 we began doing public workshops—a total of forty-two so far.

My wife, Susan, and my son, Chris, have played a great part in the
work—both of whom you will find mentioned in this book—and I take this
opportunity to publicly express my gratitude to them both.

Obviously my experience with Raj and what he has been teaching me is
totally subjective, but I will say this: I have found over the past nine
years that it would be impossible for me to Awaken alone. It therefore
seems utterly reasonable to me that a book dealing with actual
engagement in Awakening would not be a treatise on or exposition of
principles, but rather an expression of relationship—a holy
relationship, if you will—with all of its dynamics present.

I do not pretend to have gone “all the way” yet, but I can guarantee you
that I am not going back.
