---
title: January 4, 1991 Friday
nxt: /nwffacim/grad/g010591/
prev: /nwffacim/grad/g000003/
---

Raj: There is much for us to talk about, and I am going to instruct you
to take time, for the time being, to speak with me daily. And nothing is
to interfere with this. That is not a command. It is, rather, a means of
setting the tone. In other words, there truly is nothing else more
important which takes precedence over our having this time together
regularly. I say this so that you will not see this time we take as
interfering with other important things, and also so that you do not
feel that you are slighting something that you feel is more important. I
say it so that you might allow yourself to be perfectly at peace in
devoting yourself to your Self.

This series of conversations will be called Graduation.

Although Susan is listening, this material, until I say otherwise, is
not to be shared with anyone. And, whether or not all of these
conversations occur in your presence, Susan, you always have permission
to listen to them.

Now, whatever excitement or trepidation might be being felt is, of
course, not being felt by you, but by the ego—the fantasy sidekicks
which both of you and everyone else who is not Awake thinks they
companion with. In fact, they think that they are the fantasy partner.
The excitement comes from the sense that what is going to be heard is
foreign—therefore, perhaps threatening. And I am saying “threatening”
with a certain sense of thrill, because the ego likes a little bit of
threat. It provides the motivation for challenge. And it is all
bull-shit!

Graduation. What could one possibly graduate into? Well, isn’t
graduation the process of releasing education—an educational process, a
learning process? Indeed, the movement into an ego sense of Self is like
starting school, and graduation is what happens when you abandon the ego
sense and all of the interesting dynamics of becoming educated. In
effect, it is truly a moving back into the elemental and fundamental
natural perfection of one’s Being, which I will say constitutes a
complete invalidation of everything which was ever learned in the
educational process. Therefore, necessarily, graduation means forsaking
the value which has been placed upon the learning.

One does not, however, graduate by virtue of invalidating the learning,
but rather by virtue of having arrived at a point of valuing essential,
primitive, or shall I say original Being, and finding It to be more
important and meaningful than the educational process and the sense of
identity which that educational process has seemed to create. Therefore,
one graduates by virtue of caring more about something beyond education,
and the invalidating of the learning will occur because there is
something more meaningful present, not because a conscientious effort is
made to invalidate it.

Graduation is the shift from thinking to Being.

Now, this truly is not something foreign or unknowable or
incomprehensible to either one of you, because to the degree that either
of you have been Listening and Hearing, you have been getting experience
at being out from Mind. You have learned that in abandoning thinking,
you have continued to be conscious and have connected with, as you might
put it, an experience of Knowing which you have identified as Guidance.

Although I am well aware that both of you are present and listening, and
although I know that all of this will have meaning for you, Susan, I am
specifically addressing Paul’s graduation. I say this because it is
necessary for Paul to listen to me and not be distracted by what meaning
it may be having for you, or how you might be reacting. Of course, as he
is grasping the meaning of what I am saying to him, that aspect of him
which would be considering your responses will fade out of the picture.
But I need to insure that Paul is listening with no belief that what it
sounds like to somebody else is of any consequence. It is how it sounds
to him, and how that sound specifically triggers and promotes his inner
movement. And so I embrace you by letting you know where the focus is,
here.

Now, Paul, as I indicated a little bit earlier today, all of the
elements necessary for you to make the shift have already been brought
into play over the past nine years. When you have been Listening and
Hearing, what you have “heard” is the experience of Knowing. This has
not been a gift from me to you, because I am not present as a separated
presence to give you anything. It is time for you to understand clearly
that you, as some inconsequential little twirp, have not been the
recipient of a beneficent gift which therefore has had nothing to do
with you. Rather, it has been a direct experience of your Self.

As I have said, this “sidekick,” this imaginary partner, called
“Bumbling Paul,” is losing strength. Its seeming actuality is fading.
Because of this there is a more strenuous effort arising to find out
where you fit in, and who you are. As I also said, you cannot afford to
pursue that quest…ion. You have been in the picture all along.

The thinking which the fantasy partner or false sense of self has
engaged in will be replaced with the Knowing which has been constituted
of the direct experience of your Self. When it has seemed as though you
were talking with me and drawing upon the infinite Knowing, you have
been connected to You, and it has constituted the substance of You, even
though as long as you were identifying with the fantasy sense of
yourself it has seemed as though you were not connected with yourself
and who you were was becoming less and less significant.

Literally, graduation, here, is going to involve forsaking thinking, and
Listening always. When you feel inclined to think, stop, and desire to
Know.

It is also important not to give too much attention to this apparent
“questioner.” The expression of desire to Know doesn’t truly postulate
the presence of a questioner, and this is a very important point to
understand. The experience of the desire to Know is simply the means of
giving permission to Know. That is perhaps the most important statement,
the most transformational statement of Truth, the most earth-shaking
statement of Truth that could be made.

The whole false fantastic sense of self has arisen out of an attempt to
understand who is asking the question. Indeed, through an analysis of
the questions, one could come to the conclusion that the questioner is
fearful, jealous, confident, expectant. But that is like trying to see
something through a mirror around and corner which allows you to see
something that you cannot otherwise see directly. The sense of the
questioner which is gathered from the nature of the questions is
necessarily absolutely illusory. This, now, is a new way to describe
what has been called “The Fall”—the means by which one experiences
ignorance of Reality.

The experience of a question is nothing more and nothing less than the
giving permission for Knowing to be experienced. It becomes quite
obvious, then, that any attempt to understand the nature of the
questioner by virtue of the questions constitutes a complete distraction
from the real meaning of the question—which is a giving permission for
Knowing—and thus Knowing is never arrived at. The experience of one’s
Self remains hidden. The Fourth-dimensional Conscious experience of
Being is swallowed up in a “mirror image” of something that doesn’t even
exist.

Now, this graduation is constituted of a commitment to Reality and an
abandonment of the illusory sense of self; a commitment to Knowing,
which it now will be much easier for you to make since I am making it
clear to you that you are not listening to something other than your
Self, and therefore there is not a listener of dubious integrity. The
presence of the experience of Knowing is truly an experience of Self,
and not of someone else who is Valuable.

Why, indeed, would you continue to make an investment of trust and
commitment in something that is Real and thus apparently borrow some
value which never truly becomes yours, and therefore leaves you in your
illusory sense of incompetence and limitation?

In the past, when you have thought, reasoned, come to conclusions and
expressed those conclusions, you have felt an authorship, an authority,
a sense of integrity. Indeed, that has constituted the addictive
element. That sense of authorship has been a source of pride, which has
given substance to a feeling of self-confidence. That becomes the bait.
Indeed, that is what makes it almost impossible to find any value in the
experience of Knowing, because in Knowing there is not that sense of
authorship. There is not that sense of being able to take credit for
what is Known. And I will tell you, that is because the Knowing is not
an experience of something finite—an identifiable object.

Having no confinement, being unconfined, That which is Knowing has no
personal sense of the authorship of the Knowing. It takes a finite
source of experience to feel an authorship which is different from the
authorship of other finite sources. Indeed, that sense of authorship
contributes to the density of the sense of objective presence—which
means finite presence. So, there is not the addictive element in the
experience of Knowing which there is in the experience of thinking,
reasoning, coming to conclusions, and then expressing them.

Now, the nature of addiction is that the addictive substance provides a
thrill, a sense of utter well being which is not gained in any other way
than through the use of that substance or element. So, in graduation,
and the commitment to Knowing, it does indeed feel as though one is
giving up that which is utterly meaningful—a sense of worth and meaning
which is acquired through personal authorship.

The process of thinking, reasoning, and coming to conclusions—which is
another way of saying “making judgments”—will be replaced by Knowing.
And the actions and words which followed the thinking, reasoning, and
judgment will be replaced by expressing the Knowing as you are Knowing
it—not as you have heard it and repeated it at a later time.

Yes, it may seem as though you are channeling all the time. That is a
way of conceptualizing it which is, for all intents and purposes,
accurate. But really, what has channeling meant? That you were
expressing what you were not personally responsible for. That you were
not being a calculated controlled presence. And, indeed, what I have
been telling you so far is: That is the real You being you, and the
thinking, calculating, judging sense of Paul which you have thought was
you has been an imaginary sidekick which, in the final analysis
constitutes excess baggage of nonsense. You have had enough experience
now, in the last nine years, to be able to hear that and understand that
it is completely true and nonthreatening—not dangerous.

You see, you are still listening to me, aren’t you? You are still
conceptualizing what is happening as though you are listening to me, and
you are eager. This is wonderful, because it simply means that full
permission is being given. But, I will remind you that it is your Self
which you are listening to, and it is an experience of Integrity. It is
an experience of You, and truly not something separate from you, because
I am not a person. I am the Voice for Truth. And there are not many
voices for Truth, there is just the Voice for Truth. And you are the
Voice for Truth—the utterly same Voice for Truth.

When you listen to me, you listen to You. And when you listen to You,
you listen to me. But what you must come to embrace and embody as your
conscious awareness is the fact that it is You; that every word which is
being experienced at this moment is You in the act of being Who You
truly Are. Where is the imaginary sidekick, Bumbling Paul, at this
moment? Nowhere! Never was anywhere.

So, conceptually speaking, you could say that you will either be talking
with me/Yourself or opening your mouth and saying what me/Yourself is
being the Knowing of. You are at a point where you truly can release the
idea that an experience or sense of authorship will accompany true
Being, and just be the experience, the presence of It happening!

You will remember that in the beginning, I mentioned to you that we
would come in through the back door.[^1]
And, indeed, that is what we have done. I have engaged you in being You
while implying that you were doing something else, and in that way have
allowed you to get the feel for it. Whereas, if I had told you what you
would be doing, and we confronted this sidekick of yours with its
invalidity, there would have been such defensiveness and self-protection
and self-substantiation that you would not have arrived at having the
experience.

I point this out to you so that you might understand that this
graduation is not really a movement into unfamiliar territory, but a
shift of perception about what is already known. A redefinition, as it
were. A slipping of the identification tag from the sidekick to the Real
One.

[^1]: [February of 1982](/nwffacim/yaa/020782/). See *You Are The Answer*
