---
title: January 16, 1991 Wednesday
nxt: /nwffacim/grad/g011891/
prev: /nwffacim/grad/g011591/
---

Raj: Indeed, Paul, I thank you for checking in with me frequently since
we spoke yesterday. This is the way you anchor yourself in Reality. I
say this because not only are you speaking with me, but each time you
have checked in with me, you have allowed yourself to be aware that you
are present with me, and that I am not just present with you. In the
past, you have had a sense of my being present with you where you are in
your perception of things. But in the last twenty-four hours, you have
grasped that when we are speaking, you are actively present with me, I
will say, in the Kingdom of Heaven, in the Fourth dimension, in the
undistorted conscious experience of Being, even though almost none of it
seems to be available to you, except for the presence of my words. This
is, indeed, the way you make the shift. This is, indeed, the way you
Graduate. This is, indeed, the way you relinquish an investment of trust
in your perceptions, or in the three-dimensional-only frame of
reference.

When you remember where you must truly be, no matter how partial that
remembrance is, you begin to realize that you haven’t the faintest idea
what is trustworthy about anything you are experiencing other than you
and me. And you also begin to realize that the solution to this problem
doesn’t lie in investigating, analyzing, and discerning what is
trustworthy, but rather, it lies in relying upon the one thing you are
becoming sure of—the existence of you and me. Yes, that is one thing.
And the one thing isn’t you or me, or you and me. The one thing is
infinity/eternity—the Conscious experience of being the only thing going
on, which is pure Awareness, in which the infinitude of the being of
that conscious awareness is experienced as you and me.

Our relationship is a unity, and our conversation, our experience of
each other, is communion. That is taking things further than you can
grasp at the moment. For the time being, the key point is that our
conversations demonstrate for you the fact that you are with me from my
point of view, which means from the Father’s point of view, rather than
my being with you from your level of perception. I have not come to
where you are in belief. I am speaking to you where we are in Reality.
Therefore, again, our communication is a demonstration of the Fact of
where you Are.

This means that “as much of you as is hearing me” is absolutely
Fourth-dimensional, experiencing a limited experience of infinite Being.
Therefore, no matter how limited it is, it is absolutely valid,
absolutely real, and constitutes a part of you that has no further to
go. It is a limited experience of You, Fourth-dimensional man.

Now, I must reiterate that this checking in must continue
frequently—indeed, even more frequently than during the past twenty-four
hours. Do not be dismayed that your sense of what is real becomes less
sure. I am speaking now of your experience of your sense of yourself and
your sense of your world.

All you can be sure of—and this is the Fact—all you can be sure of is
that you are seeing something, and it is something functioning
Fourth-dimensionally, even though the definitions and meanings you are
giving it, which seem so real, are invalid. In order for what they
really mean to register with you, you must go through a phase where,
indeed, you are unsure.

Let this sense of Reality and unreality, without clear distinction, be.
And do not try to figure it out. But insist, as you have, upon
communicating with me, because our communication does now cease to be a
communication of information and becomes a substantiation of where you,
as you are experiencing yourself, are originating from. In other words,
again, our conversation confirms your divinity and its active presence,
Fourth-dimensionally speaking.

What I am saying, you are experiencing—and I am not talking about an
idea! To continue frequently to experience—not think about—that
confirmation, you will become grounded Fourth-dimensionally and
ungrounded three-dimensionally. That is the shift. As that confirmation
is reconfirmed when you frequently address me and hear me respond, it
will include illumination of the details which in the past you have
hoped to arrive at by means of thinking and reasoning.

You are indeed on the move again—not stuck in an improved belief.

Now, I wish to address another point. In your choosing to check in with
me frequently, even if it is to hear a brief response from me, it is the
means by which you do not slip into distraction in a cozy and
comfortable sleep and dream. In spite of the drama of the day’s events,
and in spite of the drama/dynamics of your personal experience of
limitation, you have not become distracted so completely by them that
you have neglected to speak with me and experience the reminder—or shall
I say, have the remindful experience—of not being in the drama or the
dynamics. As a result, you have not lost perspective, and the dream, the
limited perception, has not consumed you.

You have, in the last twenty-four hours spent more time being
consciously present, Fourth-dimensionally speaking, than in the whole
history of your dreaming. Humanly speaking, that would amount to
thousands of years.

I encourage you, during the next twenty-four hours, to check in with me
even more frequently. And again, I caution you not to become concerned
because of a lessening of your ability to tell what is real and what is
not, what is important and what is not. Allow that flux, and address
yourself to the one unchanging, anchored aspect—that of our connection
and the fact that that connection is occurring Fourth-dimensionally;
that you are not connecting with me from the three-dimensional-only
frame of reference, but are connecting with me from and as the
Fourth-dimensional conscious experience of Being.

It is as though you have stuck a periscope up, and it has penetrated the
Fourth dimension, and you have noticed me, and we have experienced each
other. You have seen yourself as being in the submarine [^1]
beneath the surface of the water, viewing me by remote control or remote
vision. But it is a part of you that has penetrated beyond the
three-dimensional frame of reference and is experiencing me from your
very own Fourth-dimensional standpoint. Therefore, you are not
experiencing me from inside a submerged submarine, enclosed and
separated, but you are experiencing me from where I Am, because you are
there, too!

Let the apparent confusion be. It does not matter that you cannot tell
whether any part of the submarine6 is real or not, or what there is
about it that is Fourth-dimensionally Real. For example: You do not know
whether the observing of the events in the Mideast on TV is unworthy of
your attention, but your experience of financial lack is worthy of your
attention, because you grasp that they might both be of the same order
of illusion. Is one or the other of them more worthy of your attention?
Are they both? Or neither one?

I will tell you something: If either one of them were the appropriate
focus of your attention, that is what we would be talking about! But,
you see, we are talking about letting go of the sidekick and its
polarized, dualistic perceptions—confidences and doubts, fulfillments
and lack of fulfillments—and, indeed, we are talking about anchoring
yourself at Home by means of simply connecting with me, because it is
literally that shift from the standpoint of the sidekick to the
standpoint of your Being which separates the tares from the wheat, the
illusion from the reality, the overlay of misperception from the
underlying Reality which is being misperceived. Then the illusion of
lack will not be present to deal with, and the experience of the
Wholeness of You, the Wholeness of God’s Self-expression, will be what
is being experienced.

I know. The ego suggests that that is a nice escape from dealing with
what needs to be dealt with. It says, “Come back. You have a few loose
ends to take care of.” But, as I have said before, your income, your
abundance, comes from being Centered. I did not say it comes from taking
care of loose ends which are perceived from uncenteredness.

Now, we are talking about being Centered with a fuller meaning of
Centeredness. Centeredness really means at-Homeness. It really means the
conscious comprehension of the experience of being at Home, which now
our communications are substantiating.

Why do you think that I said to my disciples, “Follow thou me”? Because
it gave them the opportunity to make the choice, from within themselves,
for their own reasons, for their Sanity. And why do you think I said to
“sell everything that thou hast, and follow me,” or to forget about the
mother who needed to be buried because she had died? Because the ego
always has loose ends to distract one from waking up. Just one more
thing to take care of. One last thing to do within the context of the
dream. One last thing to do from the three-dimensional frame of
reference.

You wordlessly initiated this evening’s conversation with a confusion
about what truly constituted the issue that needed to be addressed, and
whether the money issue was any more real than the world issue. That
confusion is indicative of the shift that is currently, actively, and
really occurring within you, of Awakening. And I have been, and am,
addressing the issue, and am telling you that your practice of checking
in with me frequently during the last twenty-four hours has constituted
the most significant forward movement you have engaged in, and is not
irrelevant to the apparent issues at hand, but constitutes the specific
answer to the issues at hand.

Now, you may fret this in your mind, if you wish, and I will get as
boringly monotonous as I did in the beginning when I told you, “your
income comes from being Centered” over and over again. Except now it is
that your conscious connection with me constitutes an actual
Fourth-dimensional conscious experience of Being, a joining of the two
of us at the level of Reality, and not a joining which bridges a gap
between the third and Fourth dimension. This clearly places you now in
the Fourth dimension. And that is the deeper and broader meaning of my
statement, “Your income comes from being Centered.” Your Wholeness comes
from being at Home Consciously. And if our conversations are the only
conscious experience you have of being at Home, then it is that
connection which constitutes the Answer, which constitutes that which
heals the illusion of lack.

So, your task between now and our next conversation is to connect with
me even more frequently than you have in the past twenty-four hours.

[^1]: Represents the three-dimensional frame of reference—located in the world
and universe.
