---
title: January 14, 1991 Monday 
nxt: /nwffacim/grad/g011591/
prev: /nwffacim/grad/g010591/
---

Paul: I don’t even know what needs to be addressed.

Raj: Paul, we have been addressing what needs to be addressed. The
events of daily life will continue, but will not become the focal points
to be addressed. The key here is Listening—and this does not mean
letting down and resorting to instinct, memory, or personality patterns
where you unthinkingly respond to the so-called stimulus of life.
Listening is unthinking, but not un-Self-conscious, and actions arise
out of Knowing—not inaction or reaction. Being is not responsive!

When you begin a Workshop, you have the conscious intent to draw
exclusively from within, to not place your attention outside yourself.
No attempts are made to control the environment, or the order of events
or the nature of the questions. Everything is grist for the mill. You
are the one who takes breaks periodically for “relief” from that mode of
being.

I will tell you something: We are pushing through this supposed need for
“relief.” Indeed, the timing of the breaks [^1] has occurred because they are 
in order, but your shift of attention to “Paul, the Channeler” and “externals”
is not.

Now, I will tell you something else: I am not pushing you. I am
reflecting the demand of your Being for congruence! I am doing this so
that you might know what the pressure is, and not misunderstand the
need. This is not a learning that you can choose to learn whenever you
feel like it. You are bigger and you must embrace it.

You see, as long as you think “Bumbling Paul,” the sidekick, is the real
you, your divine Self-hood will seem to be your sidekick, the fantasy
partner, the intangible, insubstantial essence—the ethereal you. This
displacement is being healed, requiring you to invest yourself in the “unreal”
[^2] and abandon the “real.” [^3] That is how you let go of the ego. This is
how you become Sane.

You see, I am not riding around in your hip pocket. The “you” that
thinks I am is riding around in the hip pocket of You. And You and I are
brothers. You hear me instead of your Self because your sidekick cannot
acknowledge You. Indeed, this is an Awakening, or healing of mental
illness—confused identity—and will affect and consume every perception
of your existence. One is never selectively insane. Misperception colors
all of one’s experience.

I will tell you something else: You have friends to meet and greet you
when you come out of this misperception of self whom you will enjoy
re-recognizing. To hell with those who are still dreaming! You don’t
have the perspective to know whether they are really asleep or not, and
would you stay in your dream to save them from their dream if you knew
they weren’t really asleep? You cannot afford to govern yourself
according to your current perceptions. Maybe the lack is the crumbling
of something illusory that doesn’t need to be reestablished. You will
not know until you choose for Me/You.

Would you not be in your right Mind? Would you not choose to move beyond
even the happy dream? The happy dream is a stepping-stone, not a place
to settle into. The happy dream is insubstantial—dreamlike because it
still isn’t Reality. But, it does promote the dissolving of denser
illusion which seems so real. And, as I said, the stepping-stone begins
to crumble, and you must make the final leap across the little gap that
is no gap at all.

The issue here is not money or schedule or any other obligation to the
human condition. The issue is Listening permanently—committing to me
rather than your fantasy sidekick, your imaginary self. In this act, you
must necessarily come into the full conscious awareness as my
brother—the real You that You Are.

[^1]: The hourly breaks in the Workshops.
[^2]: The Centered perspective.
[^3]: The well-established ego perspective.
