---
title: January 18, 1991 Friday 
nxt: /nwffacim/grad/g012091/
prev: /nwffacim/grad/g011691/
---

Paul: I just want to say that I am feeling really scattered today, at
this point—very, very unsure about what is going on, and what is
important and what isn’t. There seems to be chaos and absolute lack of
order and focus. Anything and everything seems to be what needs to be
attended to. Anyway, that’s where I am.

Is it true that you have something to say?

Raj: Yes, Paul, it is true.

Paul: Okay.

Raj: What I have to say is still relative to Graduation.

Paul: The impression I got when you said that was, it is still more
relevant than anything else at the moment that seems worthy of my
attention or focus. Was that intended, or am I jumping to conclusions?

Raj: Indeed, that is absolutely correct, Paul. You must begin to see it
from my point of view. If you have been dreaming dreams, totally
engrossed in them, to the exclusion of your Conscious awareness of Where
and Who you truly Are, and now you are…h-m-mm, yes…lucid enough to
recognize my presence and the fact that you must be present with me
where I am to be experiencing me, then there is only one focus possible.
That is, as you put it, pulling you through the knothole that seems to
be between you and your awareness of Who and Where you Are, and me,
without any distortion in your experience of me.

The nature, character, dynamics and drama of your dreams literally have
no importance, because they are part and parcel of your ignorance, not
your Consciousness—not your lucid all-inclusive Conscious experience of
Being. And so, when you say, “Oh, a monster is chasing me. I need to go
and run,” I cannot tell you that it is more important than your
continuing connection with me, which is your continuing connection with
Reality, your continuing connection with your Self in your right Mind,
in which there is no monster and no need to run.

As I have already said, do not try to determine what is real and what is
illusion at the level of dream. You must understand that it is your
willingness to pay attention to me, to my presence outside of the
dream—and therefore your presence outside of the dream—which is the only
thing that will bring you to a point of being able to distinguish what
is Real. And, of course, there will not be anything remaining appearing
to be unreal, so no distinction between the two will have to be made. We
are talking about clarity, here, in which there is no confusion, no
distorted perception.

Now, you have realized that you forgot to check in with me even more
frequently after our last conversation. You, nevertheless, did check in
with me, and did, to a limited degree, provide yourself with the
remindful experience of where we Are—which really means, for you, where
You Are truly.

Indeed, the drama of the dream has been a little more dynamic in the
past few days. But what is unreal about it is no more unreal than it was
when it was less dynamic, and therefore does not truly require your
attention any more than when the dream seemed to be peaceful. So, I am
going to reiterate again the need for touching base with me more and
more frequently. This is the way you build a basis of experience as to
where you really Are, and therefore, this is the way in which you become
clearer that you are not in the dream, and you are not the caricature of
self that you are experiencing within the dream, but are the Self that
is with me in the Fourth-dimensional Conscious experience of Being.

Again, I ask you: Will you do this?

Paul: Yes, to the very best of my ability.

Raj: Again, Paul, there is a need for desire to be present—a desire for
a friend. A desire to be with me consciously. And again, at this point,
any experience of not being with me is not a valid or valuable
experience. Therefore a choice for being unaware of me is a choice which
imprisons you in unconsciousness, ignorance. Your great familiarity with
your ignorance, and your great unfamiliarity with being with me does not
justify the ongoing choice for being unconscious of me, and therefore
unconscious of You.

If it seems that the protocols of your dream are dissolving—being
rendered meaningless—and as a result there is what you perceive and
judge to be chaos, then you may know that the elements of its
attraction—meaning the ignorance or the dream—are losing their ability
to hold your attention, and thus, you not only have a “window of
escape,” you also feel a need. This is in perfect order and is
indicative of healing, of your coming back into your right Mind—your
undistorted, unbiased, unconditional, unconditioned Conscious experience
of Being.

So, when you feel the need for order, when the conceptual orderlinesses
of your experience are dissolving, know that order will be achieved—not
by virtue of reestablishing the order in the dream, but—by virtue of
connecting with me, thus bringing your point of attention to that Place
where You Are, truly, and that Place only where your capacity to
experience truly is present and available, in which the absence of order
and its potential threat to your sense of your well being gets swallowed
up in unchangeable, absolute Order or Harmony, where there is no
experience of threat or potential for threat. I will repeat this as many
times as I have to.

In your connecting with me—and now, by virtue of connecting with me and
having an experience of the fact that you must be with me where I am in
order to do so—this is the essential step in terms of your release from
the dream, the personal sense of self and the distorted perception of
Reality which is inseparable from it.

Paul: I realize I am now trying to understand. So, do you have more to
say?

Raj: Yes, Paul. I do.

Now, it is important for you to notice how you are willing to pull your
attention back from me into an allegiance to what I will call “the
events of your day.” I mean by that, the events of the three-dimensional
day—or even more accurately, the three-dimensional perception of the
eternal Now that is called Day.

You are bringing into play a level of concern and obligation as though
somehow, even though your allegiance to the protocols of your day will
involve my speaking to someone, that it is appropriate to become
un-Self-conscious of your self as being with me. In other words, the
withdrawal suggests a return to the three-dimensional frame of reference
and then listening from there. And we are not going to do that any more.

If you are listening to me, you are going to be listening to me from
Here. And what I mean by that is: You are going to be listening to me
while embracing the conscious experience of being Here with me, where I
am Fourth-dimensionally.

As you can see, you are not going to be able to reason this thing out.

Paul: Am I going to keep this appointment with Phyllis?

Raj: Not if you want to stay in touch with me.

Paul: You are saying, then, that we will continue talking and the
connection will appear to be you and me talking, not you and Phyllis
talking and having an appointment?

Raj: That is correct, Paul, unless you refuse to speak with me, I am
going to continue to speak to you and bring your awareness more
significantly into your clear experience of what is Really going on.

Paul: All right.

\[Just cancelled appointment.\]

Paul: This certainly is increasing my anxiety level, when there is lack
and then I am canceling appointments.

Raj: Paul, this anxiety is inherent in the level which you are choosing
to invest energy. At this moment you are hearing me, but you are not
experiencing the fact that you are with me. You are listening from
within the framework of personal bias, the tiny sense of self, the
three-dimensional-only frame of reference. Again, you must understand
that this is not where Cause lies. This is not where movement
originates. This is not where anything is done. This is not where Being
is being. It is just the visibility and tangibility of Being-—visibility
and tangibility only! You could say the three-dimensional-only frame of
reference is the visibility-and-tangibility-only frame of reference.
What it is the visibility and tangibility of exists only
Fourth-dimensionally.

Paul: All right.

Raj: Good. You are back.

Paul: But I feel like I’m blind, and ignoring what I am able to
see. [^1]

Raj: Yes. But, you are not deaf, are you? You are Hearing me. And I will
say, your ears are Here with me, or your ears are functioning—and I am
being symbolic. If Hearing is the one faculty which is not being
blocked, then by all means, Paul, give your attention to it! It is the
means by which the rest of you may be, I am going to say, re-enlivened,
re-invigorated. That is why listening to me is so imperative. It
involves that part of You which you are allowing to be lucid.

Paul: It is amazing, because it seems that I am doing nothing in the
face of much to do.

Raj: Yes, Paul. But the “much to do,” you would do ignorantly, and that
is not an accomplishment.

Do not worry, the dream will not bite you nor destroy you. And your not
giving your full attention to it will not put you in jeopardy, even
though your strong belief is that it will.

You must understand that what is happening here in our connection
partakes in no way of belief, and that is a very important point. When
we are connected, you are not standing back, separate and apart,
observing, analyzing, and grasping intellectually what is happening.
Therefore, there can be no belief associated with it. You see, what you
have in the past wanted was a break to get back to the familiarity of
belief—of your beliefs, of your protocols, your so-called orderly
structures of dreaming. You have wanted relief from unfamiliarity,
relief from having to pay attention, relief from being vital.

When one is in a hospital and unconscious, vital signs—signs of
vitality—are monitored. Respiration. Heartbeat. Brain activity, et
cetera. The divine faculties of Conscious Being, which you could call
Hearing, Seeing, Tasting, Smelling, et cetera, the direct comprehending
of Reality, could be called the vital signs. And right now the one vital
sign that is functioning is Hearing. And it is a result of Listening.
And that will give you a clue, because if you want to see, then you must
look! And how do you look? Well, you want to see. You don’t want to see
something in particular, because you don’t know what there is to see.
But you want to see. And the “wanting” is the “looking.” And the seeing
is what comes, just as Listening brings forth Hearing.

You must stop valuing the inputs which bolster the ego and satisfy it. I
mean by that, the actions that get approval. You must at this point
value the marvelous fact that you are, at this instant, connecting with
me from That of you which is Fourth-dimensional. It is a concrete
demonstration of your Sanity—your presence of Mind—and therefore an
illuminated experience of your Being, with no distortion present.

I realize that it doesn’t seem as significant as the fantastic imagery
of the imagination which you have come to believe is reality, and which
it now seems to you that you are ignoring and therefore separating
yourself from. But as has been said, “the way is straight and narrow,
and few there by that go in thereat.” [^2] And
this is because it feels like the loss of immense, all-inclusive, total,
images, concepts and belief structures called reality, but which
necessarily has a small “r.”

Again, Paul, you cannot know ahead of time what this means, and so you
are going to have to trust as you take my hand by joining with me Here
at Home.

Paul: This is not fun.

Raj: It all depends on where you’re standing as you’re observing it.
Because I will tell you, again, that from my vantage point this is cause
for great Joy and great Joy is being experienced by those of us standing
in attendance, you might say, as you reach out and desire to embrace,
and thus express Mind, thus express your natural inherent Sanity.

It is not pleasant to sacrifice your illusions. And again, this is why
it is imperative for you to connect with me frequently, if not
absolutely constantly, so as to have the opportunity to stand in the
presence of your Sanity, your unflawed experience of what is Really
going on, because you will be able to catch the feel of Joy which will
further illuminate You to you as Who You truly Are, and thus promote
greater willingness to release, without reason or thought, the fantasy
you.

Paul: There is joy here?

Raj: And laughter, too, at your very question. Indeed, yes. The laughter
is Joy because your question constituted a further opening.

Paul: Are there many Here, or is that pertinent?

Raj: There are ten or twelve of us at this time—shall I say, “as we
speak.”

Paul: Is this “Here” occupying the same space I would describe as “here”
three-dimensionally?

Raj: No, Paul, because this “here,” as you put it, three-dimensionally,
isn’t present in space, either, but in the conscious experience of being
conscious. In that sense, the answer is yes, because the Place is
Awareness, not the sense of space that form seems to suggest—and when I
say “form,” I mean visibility and tangibility. The conscious experience
of an idea.

All of us are eager to discern increasing curiosity in you, because the
presence of curiosity about where you Really Are is the vitalizing
factor which opens the Door, so to speak—dissolves the conceptual blocks
of perception and allows Knowing to occur “once again.” We are not happy
when you slip away in concern for the sense of space and time, and of
self located in it, because, in effect, we lose you for a time. I will
say it this way: We lose the opportunity to experience You—and, as I
have said before, to some extent the experience of Us, because you are
inseparable.

You see, just as each one must find his or her own reason for living,
you must find your own reason for being Conscious. And you will never
find the reason for being Conscious within the ignorance, within the
dream. Therefore, the reason for being Conscious will never be
reasonable! At least not from within the limited definitions of reason
which are employed within the dream.

So, you must arrive at a conviction, and a willingness to commit to that
conviction, which allows you to abandon reason for the apparently
unreasonable. It is because what we are doing at this moment, you and I,
does not compute with your preexisting conditioning that it seems
unreasonable and impractical, and will seem so if you do not stay in
touch with the unjustifiable claim that I am making—that you and I are
together, actively and consciously together, to the degree that you are
Hearing me, in the Fourth dimension, in the Kingdom of Heaven, in the
middle of Reality, and that it is only by means of this connection and
your embrace of the ability to conceive of your being Here with me that
you can break through your “amnesia.”

Paul: Do you have more to say?

Raj: Not at this time. I want you to try to stay connected with me
constantly.

[^1]: Unable to see the Reality he is revealing, and not paying attention to
what I have perceived reality to be since I was born.

[^2]: Matthew 7:14 “Strait is the gate, and narrow is the way, which leadeth
unto life, and few there be that find it.”
