---
title: February 5 1991 Tuesday
nxt: /nwffacim/grad/g020691/
prev: /nwffacim/grad/g020291/
---

Raj: Paul, I am aware that there is a great deal of fear. But I would
point out that you are looking at the hole instead of the doughnut. I
would encourage you to remember that we are talking about coming Home.
We are talking about you coming into the clearer experience of Who You
Are. We are talking about the experience of fearless Integrity. We are
talking about Wholeness. We are talking about Presence—not finite,
separated presence, but inclusive Presence, embracing Presence. We are
talking about you being more You than you have ever experienced yourself
to be before. We are talking about a Peace experienced inescapably as
the very Nature of You, which causes the apparent need for defense to be
so totally ridiculous as to not deserve a moment of your attention.

You know that until recently, you have experienced almost nine years of
peace—the absence of fear—the willingness to abide at that ungrounded
point of equilibrium in which you were able to allow fulfillment of
purpose to occur without taking on any sense of personal responsibility
for making it happen. And, if I may put it this way, knowing your place
in that process or movement.

Remember also that when you allow yourself to be Centered, your
perspective is excellent. And when I say, “be with me,” I am saying, be
Centered at all times. I promise you that if you open the door to stick
your head outside of your Centered perspective to see what the ego is
doing, or whether there is justification for not being Centered, you
will find justification for not being Centered, because the nature of
experience outside of your Centered place is representative of all that
is unlike God. Not that there is actually anything unlike God, but if
you are going to look away from God to see something else, then you will
necessarily experience a state of conflict—let us say an experience of
that which is not Real.

If you want the true picture, you must move into your Center and observe
all there is to be observed from there, from God’s perspective. The
desire to know God’s Will is the desire to have no other Consciousness
of Will than the only one there is. You, being with me Consciously,
constitutes You being in your right Mind. You being in your right
Mind—not you sacrificing your mind for me.

To be with me, you must be Conscious, and so you cannot disappear out of
the picture. But the separated, distorted sense of you, acquired in the
unconsciousness of God, will be lost. That which obscures You from you
will be lost. Indeed, it seems like a great and profound sacrifice, a
loss of everything you thought had integrity. But, you see, the gaining
of integrity which occurs in the ignorance of God is not Integrity, and
constitutes the loss of your Conscious experience of your actual or real
Integrity.

Now, indeed, you are at a point where you must dare to trust that there
is a God; that there is something Real—immovably, eternally Real—going
on, and that your sacrifice of your well-developed limited sense of self
will not constitute death or loss, but that the Real experience of Who
You Are will come into view, become consciously available to you, and it
will not feel foreign or unfamiliar to you. Rather, you will feel more
like you than you ever felt before—just as the degree to which you have
yielded during the past nine years has uncovered to you an experience of
yourself which is far more secure, far less vulnerable, far more
peaceful, far less fearful than at any prior time.

As you have commented many times, life has been far from dull since you
first threw your anchor beyond the limits of your ego. Have you become
something you don’t recognize? Have you become, shall I say, a less
meaningful presence in the world? Or has more of what you have been
doing, and has more of what you have been being, been meaningful? We are
talking about, for lack of better words, an increase of that same
experience.

Do you not wish to feel more real, and therefore less in need of
defense? Would you not like to be finished with the trek Home, and
engaged in being at Home. You have devoted yourself, your whole life to
coming Home. It has been a conscious intent since you were just a
toddler. And you did not engage in it for appearances. You engaged in it
whether or not anyone else understood or agreed.

Indeed, you say it feels as though I’m pulling you through a knot-hole,
but your Conscious Intent is pulling you out of the tininess. And I am
standing in confirmation of that movement. But, like the chick pecking
its way out of the egg, you must persist and come out on your own. You
have a cheering section, as I have said. And I can say to you, “Good
work.” And in your exhaustion from the effort, you might say, “thanks a
lot, but that’s no help.” But, indeed, Paul, it is help. And although
your ego is saying, “Crawl back into the shell,” which is no help, you
are choosing most diligently to listen to me saying, “Good work.”

Although it does not seem justifiable on the basis of experience that
you remember, you are daring to say that the cracking and collapsing of
the security of the shell that you have functioned in does not
constitute the end of existence, but emergence into a more vast
experience of Being.
