---
title: February 2 1991 Saturday 
nxt: /nwffacim/grad/g020591/
prev: /nwffacim/grad/g012791/
---

Raj: Yes, Paul, you faded out on us. You went into a deeper slumber, you
might say—more fascinated with the elements of the dream. And so, we
have simply waited, and are glad to welcome you back.

Paul: There is some confusion.

Raj: I understand, Paul.

Paul: I don’t. \[Said with frustrated sarcasm.\] I am not sure what is
needed. Am I to get the Newsletter out? You said after the Hood River
gathering that the Newsletter was now complete, which I took to mean
that the information, the conversations in that gathering, constituted
the last remaining portion of the Newsletter. And yet, the Newsletter is
not getting done because I don’t have time to do it, and when I take
time to speak with you, as I am doing now, I’m not getting the
Newsletter done.

So, is doing the Newsletter part of the slumber? Is it just part of the
seemingly important “stuff,” but only important relative to the nature
of dreaming? And if so, then why would you indicate to me that that
information completed the Newsletter. I’m frustrated to say the least,
and I am aware that I haven’t spoken with you in this manner in three
days, possibly more. At least three days. But there seems to be no red
carpet treatment, no smooth flow to getting the Newsletter out. So, I
don’t know. I’ll listen to whatever you have to say.

Raj: Paul, don’t turn the tape recorder off. You have plenty of tapes.
Let the tape run.

The key, Paul, is not in getting or not getting the Newsletter done. I
will even say that the key is not the keeping of appointments or the
canceling and rescheduling of appointments. The key is in staying with
me. The key is in bringing your attention Here where we really Are. And,
as I said, keeping your attention on me, keeping the line of
communication open and active, is the means by which you may shift
perceptions and become aware of yourself Here with me.

Now, whether you are conscious of it or not, there is a fear that if you
find yourself Here with me, you will not find yourself there in any way,
shape, or form, and then you get caught up in thoughts of abandonment of
those “left behind.” But I want to point out something to you, Paul.
“Here” and “there” are the manifestation of a misperception, because
indeed we are all Here. Everyone you think is there is Here, just as you
Are. You think that I am not experiencing the house you are living in?
You think I am not experiencing the weather, the peculiar clouds that
you have noticed, the warmth, et cetera? They are not imaginary. And
when this shift of perception occurs, you will only lose the
misperception of them. You will not lose them.

Paul: Why is this not joyful news? Why is staying in touch with you not
including a motivation to do it? Why is there a depressed feeling, a sad
feeling, an absence of interest?

Raj: Well, Paul, the dynamics of the dream, the current sense of life,
the current sense of world circumstances, does seem stimulating of
interest and attention, and motivation to do something, doesn’t it?

In other words, a sense of emergency. A sense of vital action. It seems
to give you something to dig into—to in some way be an affective and
effective presence. And the prospect of finding yourself—notice that,
“finding yourself”—with me does not hold the promise of accomplishment,
but of simply being. Being clear. And as unstimulating as that is
presently judged by you to be, it is like “big deal!”

Well, what it boils down to, Paul, is the choice between overcoming
evil, illusion, and experiencing no illusion to overcome. You can see
that this brings us right down to one of the essential aspects of the
entrapment of the three-dimensional frame of reference. That being, the
suggestion that the limitation, which doesn’t actually exist, can be met
and overcome.

You will remember that I have indicated that coming Home is a matter of
retracing one’s steps away from the Conscious experience of Being, of
Home. So, do not be surprised that this essential issue of
overcoming—the challenge of overcoming and the potential for success at
overcoming from your tiny, vulnerable, separated standpoint—will have to
be moved through, rather than engaged. Then you will find yourself at
the point of letting in your infiniteness as replacement for the sense
of tininess and vulnerability that constitutes the first experience of
the three-dimensional frame of reference, and therefore the last
experience of the three-dimensional frame of reference. But, you are
going to have to remain with me. You are going to have to maintain the
idea of being Here with me and not actually in the events that seem to
be transpiring on a finite and polarized basis.

You see, in the final analysis it is the choice for Peace that
constitutes the release of the choice for conflict, and therefore the
relinquishment of the validation of polarization. Polarization
disappears in the experience of Peace, as you already know from your
practice of meditation. Therefore, when you are choosing for anything
other than your Peace, you are choosing for polarity, conflict. You are
being sucked into the apparently valid but totally illusory aspects of a
limited frame of reference, and you become entrapped. You become
entrapped in a state of Self-denial, and you become entrapped in an act
of the denial of Reality, the denial of God.

So, you say, “Why isn’t unity with God more dynamically interesting? Why
doesn’t it arouse great fervor and motivation for following through to
that moment of Joining?” And the answer is, because it does not involve
the elements of overcoming, and therefore, the potential for ego
satisfaction—the supposed substantiation and validation of the ego as a
real presence. Of course, the ego’s polarized sense of Reality and the
potential for success at validating itself never ever has come to
completion, because it is illusory. But, still, by virtue of the
polarized dynamics, it does seem to represent a more real opportunity
than union with God does.

Paul: So, you are saying, then, that the process of Awakening is not
necessarily going to be exciting and full of, let us say, religious
fervor?

Raj: No, Paul, it will be the most calm, quiet, natural, effortless,
smooth shift of awareness that you can imagine.

Paul: Why would anyone choose for that, if there is no gold star, no
promise of fulfillment?

Raj: Indeed, that is a good question, Paul. You notice there haven’t
been any advertisements lately on the television saying, “Come to the
Kingdom of Heaven!” “Enjoy Eternity in the Kingdom of Heaven!” No
promises of special rates. No promises of special deals. No promises of
anything out of the ordinary. Why do you think that is?

Paul: My ego says it is because God is perverse. That is not what I
think. I would like to hear you tell me the reason why.

Raj: Because being Awake and experiencing Reality without any
misperception constitutes You, being absolutely normal. You,
experiencing no altered ego. You, being clearly and totally Who You Are.

Your Birthright as the Son of God, your Birthright as the Christ, your
Birthright as the undistorted perception of Reality, the undistorted
Conscious experience of Being, is certainly embraced and embodied in
your being normal, your being Who You Are. You wake up by virtue of
consciously releasing the ego, by consciously arriving at the point
where you find no value in its misperceptions and the so-called promises
of fulfillment which arise out of those misperceptions. You cannot be
enticed into that which is absolutely normal.

Again, “A mind that’s changed against its will, is of the same opinion
still.” You wake up into your right Mind by virtue of a desire that
arises entirely from within you.

You see, you never ever left the Kingdom of Heaven. You have been on
your “Fantastic Journey” to “Fantasy Island,” if you will, while never
having left Home. In other words, it was an act of choice which you
alone must reverse in order to bring yourself back to the Conscious
embrace of Where You Are. You were not kicked out, or else, indeed,
enticing commercials advertising the desirability of coming back would
be in order. But, you chose not to embrace Reality and embrace dreams
instead, and now you must make the choice to release dreams and embrace
Reality again.

You will get all the support you need, all of the encouragement you
need, to promote your … not moving further, but to promote the
substantiation of the steps you have taken. And that is an important
point to understand. Each footstep you take toward Home must be for your
reasons and your reasons alone. We will not give you reasons for taking
the next step. But we will give you reasons for standing firmly at the
furthermost step that you have taken.

This means that you cannot afford to look to me, you cannot afford to
look to God, you cannot even afford to look to the Holy Spirit for
giving that push, as it were, that is needed to move you across the
little gap. But you may know that we all stand with arms open in welcome
invitation and embrace when you, for your reasons, move across on your
own.

You know well enough from all of our prior conversations that we do not
need to provide the push or the motivation, because it is present in you
as your unreasonable desire to wake up, because of That in you which has
never forgotten Home, because of That in you which remembers Home more
and more clearly as you place less and less value in the ego and its
false suggestions.

You see, it is almost as though you have to show your pass to come back
through the Gates. And the “pass,” the Gold Card, if you will, is your
recognition, your discovery of your divinity. That which qualifies you
for entrance is your remembrance of Who You Are. Your Identity is what
identifies you as a resident of the Kingdom of Heaven, and your
membership in the Brotherhood.

I am saying, stay with me. Remain ever conscious of me. Why? Because
that connection constitutes an actual Fourth-dimensional Act of the
Individuality you divinely Are. And that activated presence of You,
Fourth-dimensionally, is what allows for the uncovering of your Identity
to you which constitutes the “pass,” as it were, the identification,
that ushers you out of illusion, through the Gates, and into the Kingdom
of Heaven.

Now, we are going to stop here, because this is the key point, and I
want you to listen to this conversation over, immediately.
