---
title: February 25 1991 Monday
nxt: /nwffacim/grad/g030291/
prev: /nwffacim/grad/g022091/
---

Paul: I will simply say that I am feeling up against it, and very
uncomfortable, and I need to hear whatever you have to say.

Raj: I am glad to have the opportunity to speak with you, Paul. And it
would be well, it would be most appropriate, if we could talk daily, as
I have said before.

By virtue of “winging it,” so to speak, you encounter unnecessary
turbulence, because you get off the Homing beacon, and at this point it
is very easy to get off the Homing beacon because staying on the Homing
beacon takes much more conscious intent. The reason being, that if you
are indeed yielding to the Homing beacon, you are relinquishing the
options to be off track, and therefore, you are depriving the ego sense
of self of an opportunity to seem to substantiate its existence by not
bringing it into play. And so, the ego sense is gasping for breath,
gasping for that which will substantiate it.

Again, because it has been your primary sense of identity, it feels like
a significant loss, even though when you manage to abandon that vantage
point, you experience not only the Peace of your Being, but the
experience of your Integrity and a greatly enhanced experience of your
Wholeness, and therefore your stability and invulnerability. But that is
easily lost, because the sense of Identity, being so familiar, feels
more valid, and its perpetuation, therefore, seems paramount.

The Homing beacon does not provide you with a view of your destination.
It is an intangible experience of all-rightness. The territory you can
see at the moment is constituted of ego definitions, concepts, and
acquired conclusions. And because they are what you can see, and because
the Homing beacon is something you cannot see, the Homing beacon seems
less meaningful.

So, you see, the elements here involve that which you can see, which is
by definition illusory—and I mean by that, because it is constituted of
definitions—and the intangible but meaningful experience of the Homing
beacon.

A choice must be made, which necessarily means giving up the freedom to
randomly access the territory of definitions, the loss of freedom to be
moving without relevance to Home, without relevance to Reality, without
relevance to your Sanity. There are no two ways about it, it does indeed
feel like the loss of freedom! But in the final analysis the freedom to
move in the territory of illusions constitutes bondage, because it
renders you unconscious of Who You Are, and unconscious of Reality,
unconscious of the Kingdom of Heaven as It really is—the Place You Are,
as It really is.

It is a difficult thing to have to abandon everything you believe. And,
indeed, you must understand that even though everything you have
believed has brought you to the point of giving permission to Listen, of
giving yourself permission to desire to Know, it has been nothing more
than a stepping-stone, and you cannot afford to value the stepping-stone
so completely that you do not use it for its purpose and try to make
your home there.

It does not matter that you were not told that what you believed wasn’t
ultimate. It only matters that you don’t get hung up on it. The
stepping-stone, in order to fulfill its purpose, must crumble, else you
will attempt to coerce it into a function that it doesn’t have. If you
wish to remain on it and occupy it and make it your residence, it must
necessarily begin to crumble, because it cannot become what it is not.

You are beginning to look back because your forward movement is taking
you over the horizon into new territory, into new perspective, which
means that the old perspective will disappear behind you, out of sight,
unavailable to you any longer. Because what you are moving away from is
familiar, it is not easy to let go of when you arrive at that point of
the horizon where what is behind you disappears from sight. I am aware
of your uneasiness and discomfort and fear.

I will tell you something: It was not nearly as hard to move away from
Home, because your movement away arose out of an innate sense of your
Wholeness, and of your invulnerability, and of your Integrity, and so
every step was made with confidence. And yet, if there were going to be
fear and reluctance, that is where it should have been felt, even though
that is not where it could have been felt.

Therefore, I tell you this for perspective: Fear of loss of ignorance
does not make sense. Anger at having to let go of unique and peculiar
mental aberrations is ridiculous. Pet theories, favorite truths, and
beloved concepts do not constitute being Consciously aware, Awake. And,
you see, as you let go of them, you let go of that which is embracing
them—which is not You, but is a sense of yourself that absolutely blinds
you to Who You divinely Are. And that is how illusion and delusion
vanishes.

Now, again, this means that a devotion to the Homing beacon is
absolutely essential. It does, indeed, mean withdrawing your attention
from the fallacious sense of freedom, and the unique sense of self which
arises out of the idea that accessing that freedom is what existence is
about.

Paul, you are truly going to have to be ready to exist in the Kingdom of
Heaven Consciously rather than unconsciously. What you are moving out of
is the unconscious living of your divinity in the middle of the Kingdom
of Heaven, so that you may consciously experience your divinity and the
fact that you are in the Kingdom of Heaven. In that clarity, in that
Sanity, you will be most original. I do not mean that in any way the ego
can get hold of, because the originality will be uncalculated,
unpremeditated, and the ego only calculates and premeditates. So, this
originality and freshness will constitute the nonexistence of the ego,
and therefore the nonexistence of your past and currently weakening
sense of self. Can you dare to let it die so that You, in your Totality,
may be wholly available to you, which is your Birthright?

Now, how do you stay on the Homing beacon? What is the Homing beacon? I
will tell you: The Homing beacon is what appears to be a line of
communication between you and me, but which, in actuality, is communion.

If you are blind, it is wise to let yourself be led. Especially if you
are being led into the full conscious experience of Vision. “But,” you
say, “I have learned to cope quite well with my blindness, my ignorance.
In fact, I am quite excellent at it, and I am quite pleased with myself
about it. And I have, in spite of my infirmity, been able to leave
behind a sense of inadequacy and now feel quite adequate, quite pleased
with myself and proud. Now you want to take this away from me for an
experience of fulfillment that I’m not responsible for? That I will
never be able to feel the kind of satisfaction and pleasure that I have
been able to achieve by virtue of my intelligence to function
meticulously well, almost as though I weren’t blind, almost as well as
someone who can see?”

But you see, Paul, it is a hollow victory, because even if you could
function as completely well as someone who can see, you can’t see! You
are still blind. That is what this part of you, which has excelled in
spite of an infirmity, finds unacceptable and intolerable, because
everything which it has striven for, and the satisfaction that has come
from the strife, and the sense of worth that has come from it, must be
abandoned, and it must be abandoned for something that can never be
taken credit for, can never provide that stimulating sense of
authorship.

Having a Birthright and experiencing It cannot possibly provide any
approximation of what one experiences who has no birthright and
apparently achieves great heights. But the achievement of great heights,
and the profound sense of self-worth that it provides, doesn’t embody
Worth.

You see, you cannot exist, and never have existed without a Birthright.
You never have been less than Who You really Are. The claim, and
subsequently the belief, that you have no Birthright, and then
everything built upon that belief, has constituted Self-denial—a most
unhealthy and insane activity. No matter what degree of excellence you
have achieved, it has been an act of denial of preexisting Excellence.
Therefore, whatever the sense of excellence is, it is false. This is
hard to look at, but if you are not willing to look at it, you will not
find the motivation to yield into your preexisting Excellence.

The ego says, “But, you must still function within the
definitions”—which it has established. But the Kingdom of Heaven which
you are really in does not require you to do that. As I have said
before, the definitions constitute an “alternate perception”—not an
alternate world, not an alternate place, but an alternate perception.
Home doesn’t require you to be unconscious of what It is. The ego does.
The definitions do.

If you insist upon seeing yourself as a three-dimensional entity
speaking with me, a Fourth-dimensional Individuality, then you will have
yourself misplaced. And as you are finding, as we speak and I bluntly
tell you the truth, you seem to find yourself sitting between me and
your sidekick—the private, ego sense of self, the giver of
definitions—and you feel like you are the rope in a tug-of-war. That is
exactly why I have pointed out to you the necessity of staying in touch
with me and being aware that the fact that the apparent [^1]
communication is occurring, demonstrates the fact that you are Here with
me, that you are Fourth-dimensional Individuality, also, and not a
three-dimensional entity in the middle of a third-dimension being the
relayer of Truth, as it were.

Grasping the meaning of Truth does not improve your ability to define
your world well. It does not improve your ability to control your
process of defining so as to create a better and better definition which
is more and more pleasing and less and less threatening to the ego. It
constitutes your coming into a real conscious experience of your Self as
the Conscious experience of Being, instead of as a human being—as the
Son of God instead of the son of man. It constitutes the removal of the
insanity, and everything that seemed real within that conceptual
framework—constituted entirely of definitions, gathered from a sense of
having no Birthright, a sense of being a bastard, a sense of having no
source other than the activity of thinking, the activity of being a
thinker.

And so, again I will reiterate, stay in touch with me, with the
acknowledgment of the fact that being in touch with me demonstrates, no
matter in how limited a way, the fact that you are present Here with me,
and that you are like me, and that the experience of being You in your
right Mind is what is natural to You. This will constitute your
connection with the Homing beacon, which will move you
experientially-—not intellectually or conceptually—into your Conscious
embrace of me and of You and of the Kingdom of Heaven, of Reality.

Don’t hold on so tightly to your tininess! Don’t try to stay in the
middle of what you can explain. Don’t try to make your greater capacity
to be aware divinely conform to your already-existing definitions.
Abandon the “security” of your creations. I mean by that, your
confidences in the definitions you have come to about what everything
is. You must let them become meaningless, because that is the way in
which you release the definitions which obscure your direct experience
of Reality, the presence of God, the presence of You.

Indeed, I know full well and good that that constitutes a great and
fearful experience of vulnerability, instability, insecurity. You must
remember that I have done it also, and I know whereof I speak.

You are getting a glimmer of the fact that those things which define
your security, stability, and comfort are illusions which, by virtue of
your faith in them, constitute an opaqueness that blinds you to your
infinite freedom, causing you therefore to be in a state of denial of
God, Reality, and of your Self. I will tell you something: Even if you
didn’t accomplish a single thing three-dimensionally, if you stayed in
constant and continuous conversation with me, you would awaken out of
the illusion that there would be a penalty, a cost, a disaster from not
abiding by the structural definitions of “proper behavior.”

Yes, there are a myriad of even unconscious concepts of what your role
or place might be “in the world,” and a devotion to all of your
definitions of others—how you see them and what you perceive their needs
to be—and the way in which you interpret and define what you hear them
saying. But, you know what, Paul? Every single Individuality whom you
perceive through the sieve of your definitions, is right Here in the
Kingdom of Heaven with us, You and me. And you cannot afford to abide by
your current definitions or perceptions of them, as though they
constituted justification for your continuing to perceive yourself as
there, in the three-dimensional frame of reference.

I am as aware as you are that your ego is arguing all of this. But it
really doesn’t matter. What matters is that we are engaged in communion,
and you are therefore on the Homing beacon. I want you to remember that,
so that you will not validate the arguments which are going on, as
though they constituted, really, a valid activity to engage with. The
only valid activity is being on the Homing beacon, because you cannot be
on the Homing beacon and stand still. When you are on the Homing beacon,
you are moving toward Home, and, from my standpoint, that movement
appears as You regaining Consciousness. So, understand that this
movement is not a movement through space, but a movement of increasing
conscious awareness, just as waking up in the morning is a movement of
increasing conscious awareness.

As the ego argues, by means of challenging questions, realize that to
engage in trying to find answers to those challenging questions
constitutes nothing more than a distraction from being on the Homing
beacon; that, in effect, the ego is being a kibitzer, and its
motives—if, indeed, it could have real motives—do not involve your
actually becoming clear.

\[I took a break and listened to the recording of the conversation thus
far.\]

Paul: I have just listened to what you had to say. After you said it,
and then, when I re-listened to it, there was, for me, and still is, a
feeling of what I can only describe as “tired sadness.” It’s just sort
of the atmosphere in which I find myself. And I guess I’m wondering what
it is. Of course, I’m interested in whatever you have to say, because I
do intend to persist in this.

Raj: It is just a very mild rebellion. Not an out-and-out rejection, but
a loving backward glance at all that was familiar. An emotional draw to
the familiar when you know you are leaving it behind. It is what is
called longing. And it is very different from the remembering of Home
and the desire felt for It, because that remembering is inspiring and
invigorating, and the desire is unquestionable. It is a desire for That
toward which you are moving because you are desiring It. And longing is
a rather futile attachment to that which you are not moving toward—that
from which you are moving away.

So, it is, of course, your ego which is engaging in the longing, and it
is That of your Being which you are allowing yourself to connect with
Which is responsible for the desire for Home. The former is an exercise
in futility. The latter is fulfillment unfolding. And so, again, we are
talking about a choice—not a choice between better and worse illusions,
but a choice between illusion and Reality, insanity and Sanity,
frustration and fulfillment, sadness and Joy.

Because it is ultimately a choice for Reality and the releasing of
illusion, it is moving out of the realm of choice—the interesting and
provocative realm of options. Apparently a great loss! But don’t waste
time feeling sorry for yourself. The realm of choice is the realm of
ignorance and suffering, even though it seems to be the promise of
fulfillment and joy.

As you continue to make the choice for communion, you will find the
sadness fade. Put another way, you will simply find it not occurring in
the context or arena of communion. I am not feeling it, nor am I
experiencing it, and therefore it is not part of the communion. And
although you may not be feeling the joy of communion, I will tell you
that the sadness is not occurring in it. And so, neither one of us is
experiencing it. The only one who seems to be experiencing it is this
fantastic sidekick.

It is important to know that you are not going through a period of
adjustment, because you are not the one giving up anything. You never
were the fantasy sidekick. You never were three-dimensional. And so, you
are sacrificing absolutely nothing. If you will embrace that as the
possibility, you will find that you will not fight for time to adjust.
You will not think that it is unavoidably necessary because you are
right Here with me, and it is only in the imagination that you seem to
be somewhere else.

You see, the ego wants time to adjust in the hope that it will be able
to enter the Kingdom of Heaven. But it cannot, because its existence is
predicated upon a fundamental belief of being different from the Father
and of existing in its creation, rather than being the inseparable
Conscious experience of the Movement of Creation. It is completely
incompatible, incongruent with Reality, and with Identity—the Conscious
Identity of true Individuality.

All you have to do is give permission. And all you need to do to give
permission, is to have a little curiosity. Be willing to be a little bit
of an explorer. Be willing to take those additional steps which will
cause the old familiarities to slip beyond the horizon, out of sight,
and thus release you to pay attention to Where You Are.

Now, you are going to have to sacrifice your definitions, and the data
which they provided you of a sense of movement and growth, and of
becoming more, for the movement that occurs without your authorization
when you have your mind stayed on me—when you insist upon being in
communion. It is as though when you relinquish the position of thinker
and definer of things, you weigh anchor, thus allowing for movement, and
then find yourself caught in the tractor-beam of the Will of the Father,
Which moves you unerringly into harmony with It. This causes you to
experience the Integrity of You which is constituted of the Will of the
Father, which opens your eyes, and you say, “I have woken up. What a
dream I had.”

Now you are indulging in thinking. It is a thought that this communion
is going to turn into a marathon. It is a thought that says you will not
be accomplishing anything. It is a thought that says this will be
boring. This is part of looking back to that which is familiar. And what
is familiar is “accomplishing” and “becoming,” having some “hands-on
experience” where there is some physical demonstration of accomplishment
which proves control or authorship.

I told you, you will not sit in Silence for long. You will not abide in
the Peace without experiencing a need. The ego interprets the need as a
call for expressing authority. But truly, the need is not to be alone.
Why? Because Being is a unity. And when you are in the Peace of your
Being, that which is integral to It emerges Consciously. And so you will
apparently gravitate toward the fuller experience of communion,
community.

As I said, we are all Here, including You. And we are all Here in
communion/community, Conscious unity, Conscious union. So, if you truly
wish to wake up, do not indulge in getting your hands on anything and
getting something done. Abide in this space which is intolerable to the
ego, so that regaining Consciousness can occur, so that Awakening can
occur.

The ego suggests that this could go on forever, interminably. And,
according to definition, nothing will get done, and everything will go
to pot. But, I will tell you something: We have been, and will always
be, together. Our communion will be interminable, because that’s
Reality. And so, I would encourage you to embrace it as a truth, rather
than a problem to be endured. If we are together and it is part of your
Birthright to be infinitely Conscious without barriers of any kind, then
succumb to this interminable, eternal, Conscious experience of Reality.

Now, you notice that the sadness is not present. There is not a
wonderful, inspiring, uplifting presence of Joy, but the sadness, the
“tired sadness,” as you put it, is not present, and there is an
experience of inner evenness which has, perhaps, just a tinge of
heaviness to it. That is because you are in communion, on the Homing
beacon.

The shaft of light which penetrates the darkness does not explain the
darkness, does not illuminate and render understandable the darkness.
All it does is speak of the Source of the light, and it uncovers the
absence of darkness. So, when you are in communion, you are experiencing
the Source of the light, which draws you toward the light, and renders
the imagined significance of the darkness null and void.

I encourage you, indeed, to remain in communion with me, and I encourage
you to stop assuming that being in communion with me is going to make
your illusion more understandable, that it is going to make your
definitions more meaningful, or at least help you to raise them to a
greater and more perfected form of meaningfulness, by definition. And,
yes, do it forever! If you will make the commitment to do it forever, it
will bring your full willingness into play in the Now, and then your Now
will be illuminated. The whole point is to see It as It is, to
experience You as You Are, to experience Yourself Where You really Are.

Can Sanity really be so much worse than insanity? Can clarity be so much
more horrible than ignorance? Why else would it seem that you would have
to endure it? Why would such a wonderful thing be interpreted as
interminable? Interminable is a negative way of referring to Eternity,
and yet it’s very easy for such words as “eternal life” to flow from
your lips as that which is desirable. What about “eternal
Consciousness”? What is so horrible about that? What is so horrible
about it is that you will have to sacrifice the sense of private,
personal authority. It involves the vacating of a position of
“authorizer.” And it moves you into the apparently insulting state of
being nothing more than pure Awareness—the Conscious experience of
Being, the uninterrupted Conscious experience of the Kingdom of Heaven.

Oh, the ego wants another fix of the exercise of control! Why do you not
have the same fear as the King of Siam in The King and I when he said,
“Might they not \[control\] [^2]
me out of everything I own?” Might not the exercise of control do you
out of everything You Are as a Conscious experience? Why do you have to
be in control? Your Worth isn’t connected with it, although your sense
of worth is. Your Value isn’t connected with it, although your sense of
value is. But, again, the ego, this sidekick, is a sense of identity,
and not Identity, Itself.

I am pleased that you are hanging in here with me, and that you have not
gotten up and insisted upon doing something else to get relief from
Reality. It is your Birthright to experience your unity with all of the
Brotherhood. It is your Birthright not to be ignorant or unconscious of
It. And it is your Birthright to experience it interminably,
uninterruptedly.

Blindness or ignorance is not so great.

I will tell you something: It is not a matter of honor to stand up to
the Big Boys, to claim a sense of worth by challenging them, by
attempting to be equal to them without being one of them. You see, the
fundamental conflict there? The fundamental inconsistency?

In terms of what is unfolding in your world at this time, Saddam
Hussein’s attempt to stand up to the Western World does not give him
greater credibility or honor, because as long as he insists upon
standing up against them, he cannot possibly be one of them. And so it
is an exercise in futility.

Being an ego is the attempt to be equal while being unequal, and not
allowing for being equal because it will seem to constitute a sacrifice
of any ability to claim self-worth, and self-respect, by definition. You
see, You are real. You are valid. You are valuable, because you Are one
of the Big Boys. You Are one of the Brotherhood. You are the direct
expression of God, and nothing else. You already Are That. And
therefore, you need do nothing to create it or achieve it!

Now, you may take a break, but do not leave the Homing beacon.

[^1]: Raj is making a distinction, here, between communication and communion.
Apparently it is communication, but in actuality it is communion.

[^2]: A variation of the actual line: “Might they not protect me out of
everything I own?”
