---
title: March 8 1991 Friday
nxt: /nwffacim/grad/g031491/
prev: /nwffacim/grad/g030291/
---

Paul: I think at the moment I just need to hear anything you have to
say. I need to hear you say something.

Raj: Paul, indeed your dilemma arises out of thinking that the answers
pertinent to Awakening are going to be found in the answers to the
problems occurring within your limited frame of reference. Thus you
attempt to confine the infinite to the specific finite definitions of
“what is pertinent.” Indeed, Paul, you are long past the point of
improving the human picture as the evidence of the divine presence of
Truth. We are no longer fixing up the picture, but shifting the
attention to the Reality of which the picture is just a picture. The
movement of the divine Presence is not a “restorer of old photographs.”

Again, the answer is so simple. It is not complicated, It is not
devious. It is not hard to get at the meaning of. It is very simple:
Stay in touch with me constantly. There is absolutely no way for that
statement or its meaning to be misconstrued.

Oh, yes, you would love to know how to fix things up for this daughter
or that daughter, or how to forgive the feeling of being used that you
have created around their behavior. And it would be nice to know how to
get the Newsletter out, or how to have enough money to pay the rent, and
how to have the second phone line reconnected.

Paul, I am not going to help you stay asleep by continuing to fix up the
dream so that your attention, relative to the divine Presence, can
remain firmly established in the three-dimensional frame of reference. I
will tell you something, and I have said it before: The ego will keep
coming up with more and more loose ends for you to deal with, more and
more strings of spaghetti, more and more closets that have more and more
skeletons.

The searching out of the skeletons in the closet and the finding of the
loose ends and tying them up, are not what constitute the movement of
Awakening. And as I told Susan the other day, one can just as easily
wake up from an unhappy dream as from a happy dream. Either way, whether
the dream is happy or unhappy, it is still a dream which one still needs
to wake up from. And so, again, stay in touch with me constantly.

I will point out to you that you are having less and less that you can
take care of humanly, as the sidekick, as a personal ego presence. Are
you not stuck on your derriere on your bed? And do you not have
excessive time to stay in touch with me, even if, as I said, it only
amounts to your saying, “Are you there, Raj?” and my saying, “Yes,” and
your saying, “Are you still there, Raj?” and my saying, “Yes.” There is
nothing complicated about this, Paul.

I will tell you something: Someone who has overdosed on drugs needs to
keep moving. And you have seen movies where coffee is given and they are
half dragged around the room endlessly—at least that is the way it seems
to the one who would much rather succumb to the drowsiness and the
sweetness of unconsciousness. “Must we continue doing this irrelevant
thing called walking, walking, walking, when it would be so much more
meaningful to go to sleep?”

I don’t care whether it seems meaningless to spend your whole day
saying, “Raj, are you there?” It doesn’t have to be meaningful from the
standpoint of your reasoning any more than it has to seem reasonable to
the one who has overdosed and will die if he doesn’t keep walking. So as
to what? Learn how to walk? No. So as to keep fundamental functions
occurring, together with the degree of consciousness which is necessary
to exert the effort to walk, so that the effects of the drug may pass
without killing that person. Why? So that living, and everything that
goes along with living, can be reaccessed—which goes far beyond simply
walking in circles and drinking coffee.

Now, I am going to say it again. Stay in touch with me constantly. Even
if you must answer the phone tomorrow, or even if you must deal with
something other than saying to me, “Are you there?” do not neglect—and I
am going to be very strict here—do not neglect to ask me if I am there
at least once a minute, every minute of the day tomorrow.

Certainly we can dialogue together on things other than the verification
of my presence, but my point is, dare to indulge in the interminable,
silly, apparently irrelevant and meaningless practice of staying in
touch with me constantly.

Does the one who is about to pass out from an overdose have any
conception at that moment of the meaning of relationships, of the
meaning of a family that might develop, the activities of creativity and
business, the activities of friendships? No. There is only one thing on
that one’s mind, and that is, “Leave me alone, so I can go to sleep.
Don’t make me put forth effort at something so meaningless to me, so
much of an intrusion upon what I feel is so essential.”

Let me ask you further, is it necessary for that one to be able to
consciously embrace the infinite aspects of life and choose for them in
order to get past the immediate effects of the drug overdose? No. It
only requires one thing: keeping moving and remaining conscious! At that
point, the only experience of being conscious which is occurring is an
experience of botheration with something that constitutes an absolute
intrusion upon the one and only thing he has on his mind, which is to go
to sleep.

Literally, it boils down to a struggle between the desire to be asleep
and an apparent demand to stay awake, or to wake up. And as long as
there is the cooperation with the demand to keep moving and stay
conscious, that one will get past the influence of the drug, and that
one doesn’t have to even think what constitutes the meaning of being
alive, and of being conscious. There just needs to be simple willingness
to be conscious, even if the only thing there is to be conscious of is
the frustration of the demand to be conscious.

So, Paul, if you want to be frustrated all day tomorrow because there is
a demand for you to stay in touch with me at least once every minute
throughout the day, then go ahead and be frustrated, because it won’t
make any difference. If you will do it, you will get over this impasse
that you have arrived at in the transition.

You don’t have to know what it is going to lead to. Remember that all I
am asking you to do is to indulge or engage in an act of connection with
me, which means engaging in an act of limited Fourth-dimensional
Conscious awareness, which will move you out of the mesmeric attraction
of the three-dimensional frame of reference and its promotion of your
ignorance, your sleep, you dream, your illusion, your misperception of
Reality.

If there was something more important for you to be doing, I would tell
you. I am telling you the one essential step which is immediately in
front of you to take. The reconnection of your phone, the helping of
your daughter, the healing of your back so that you can get on to the
lack of movement in your work—these things are not the next step. These
things are not the step in front of you to take. I will tell you that
they are not even available for you to effectively bring about a change
in.

So, your life at this moment is essentially absolutely simple. No
complications. No misunderstandings to straighten out. No instruction
that is difficult to grasp. No instruction that is difficult for you to
carry out, because you have, for nine years, whenever you wished to
speak to me, asked if I was there. So, I am giving you an instruction to
do something that you have already done and already know how to do,
except that I am telling you to do it at least once a minute, every
minute of the whole day tomorrow. And if, indeed, you want to imagine,
that there are other things more important to do, go right ahead and
imagine it, but do not refrain from connecting with me at least once a
minute every minute of the day tomorrow.

Now, why would I ask you to do something that could be construed to be
ridiculous? Because, Paul, in connecting with me consciously during
every minute of the day tomorrow, you will be consistently being active,
consciously active, from a Fourth-dimensional Conscious experience of
Being, yourself. It is not that I am so great that you ought to be in
touch with me constantly. It is that you are, in your right Mind,
Fourth-dimensional also.

This practice is a means of bringing your point of conscious awareness
to that place where the opportunity is present to experience your Self
Fourth-dimensionally. So, this is for you that I ask you to do it, and
this is for you that you are to do it! Use me as the means, the focal
point, if you will, for accomplishing it. And I am going to get more and
more monotonously consistent in making this demand of you because of the
fact that this is your next step.

Your next step at this moment is not the resolving of anyone else’s
problems. And because what I am telling you constitutes your real next
step, then you will not be neglecting anything essential, humanly
speaking, either. And you do not need to fear that you personally, or
any member of your immediate family, or anyone else who might feel an
urgent need to speak with me, will suffer in the process. Suffering will
come from your not attending to the next step. Discomfort comes from
being incongruent with your Self.

I believe that I have made myself succinctly clear. And you know what
that means? It means I have revealed and disclosed You to yourself with
succinct clarity, which is what Guidance is all about, and which is what
you are fundamentally desiring to have. The question is: Are you going
to kick against what you have gotten as a result of your asking in the
right place for clarity? Are you going to continue to have some other
agenda to take care of first? Are you going to insist upon taking care
of some particular justifiable “loose ends” so that you can be, by
definition, responsible, intelligent?

Your definition of responsibility and your definition of intelligence is
irresponsible and unintelligent! Why? Because it doesn’t disclose to you
the Truth. It doesn’t uncover Reality. It blinds you to your
fulfillment. Amen.

Now, you sit with that. Literally, sit with that.

Paul: I hear you loud and clear.
