---
title: March 19 1991 Tuesday
nxt: /nwffacim/grad/g032091/
prev: /nwffacim/grad/g031491/
---

Paul: It has been a number of days since we have had a formal, daily
conversation, even though I have touched base with you and have asked
various questions pertinent to each day.

I guess I don’t know how to do this shift. I don’t know what else to
say. So, I’ll leave it at that.

Raj: Paul, the simple but profound fear that you are experiencing is
that in cooperating with my instructions, you will cease to exist. After
all, if nothing goes through your mind and nothing is uttered from your
mouth but what I am saying, then where, indeed, will Paul be? Indeed,
will what is present, uttering my words and experiencing the
communications inwardly that I am providing, will that, then, be the new
identity of Paul—like a walk-in that isn’t really Paul? Will Paul ever
be able to speak to friends again, or will it just always be Raj
communicating with people whom Paul has known? Has there not been any
essential, real presence where Paul seemed to be, or used to be before
the Voice for Truth began to be expressed from his lips?

These are, indeed, serious questions. And, of course, ultimately, “Are
you being misled by one who is unscrupulous?”

I will have to begin answering those questions with this statement:
Indeed, there has been, and is, something essentially Real about you.
And the intent and result of this exercise of letting yourself be the
transparency for Truth is not to eradicate That which has been Real
about you, but to allow That which is Real about you to come forth in
full bloom, you might say, without any aspect of It being covered up,
hidden from view out of Awareness.

Even now, as we speak, you are aware of you. You are aware of being. You
are aware that it is your mouth and your voice speaking these words,
even though you are not originating these words in the way that you
originate words when you are uncentered and reactive, not paying
attention within.

You see, Paul, the fallacy is that you have been expressing in your
life—aside from our communion and conversations—intelligence, as though
it were really your intelligence, in the sense of it being a possession.
You think that you have been loving, kind, thoughtful, generous, as
though they were possessions of yours, integral parts of you. But, I
will tell you something: When you have expressed love, or when you have
expressed truth, or when you have expressed intelligence, they have been
a use which your mind has been put to by choice. You have chosen to
embody them, rather than other things, and express them, and let
everyone think that they are expressions of the essential “you.” Why
cannot the Voice for Truth, why cannot the Christ presence, the Christ
consciousness be embodied in the same way?

Oh, … because that’s not you. But, Paul, the intelligence wasn’t you,
either! The love wasn’t you, either! You see, nothing originates with
you! Not even humanly speaking. You use intelligence, and your neighbor
does not. You express love and your neighbor does not. You express
forgiveness and your neighbor does not. But, you see, it is always a
choice; a choice to embody something which, by virtue of its being a
choice, means that it doesn’t express that which is making the
choice—just the motive of that which is making the choice.

Are you not happy to be around someone who expresses intelligence—one
who chooses to express intelligence, rather than one who does not? Do
you not seek out the company of one who chooses to be loving rather than
hateful?

Tell me something. What would you think if he said to you, “Well, this
is not really me that you’re experiencing. This is just something that
‘comes through’ when I get out of the way.” What would you think?
Wouldn’t you say, “Well, don’t get hung up on it, else I will find
someone else who is not hung up on it and enjoy his expression of love,
and his expression of intelligence”?

But, you say, “to express the presence of the Christ and let it appear
to be me, is dishonest.” Well, is there dishonesty when someone
expresses intelligence instead of confusion? Is it dishonest if someone
expresses love instead of hate? Is it dishonest if someone chooses to
embody all that is truly meaningful instead of that which is useless,
and even destructive?

One looks at another who has come to adulthood, or a stage of maturity,
and he is expressing qualities of the sort that you have chosen to
express in your life, and one says, “I am certainly glad that he made
the decision to express those qualities rather than many of the others
that seem to be on the list to choose from which are less pleasant, less
desirable, less constructive.” And one credits the other for the choice.

But, obviously that which made the choice is not constituted of the
choices that were made, and therefore what you experience of that one is
the result of the choices and not that which made the choice.

You see, what I am pointing out here is that at this point all there is
to you is that which stands at the point of making a choice—the choice
to embody and be the unrestricted full expression of Truth, Love, Life,
Principle, Mind, Soul, and Spirit, instead of conceptual life,
conceptual truth, conceptual love, agreed-upon definitions of principle,
a sense of mind, a soul that is refining itself and growing, developing,
becoming, and a spirit that is, depending upon the choices, either evil
or good.

If it is not conceived to be dishonest to choose for intelligence which
isn’t one’s own—because one has the choice for unintelligence, as
well—then it is inconsistent to assume that the choice for the Voice for
Truth is dishonest, that letting the Voice for Truth be one’s
self-expression is dishonest, especially when It is meaningful and
transformational and everyone else is so grateful that you or anyone
else has made the choice for the Voice for Truth rather than conceptual
truth, conditioned truth—mutually-agreed-upon truth that has nothing to
do with Reality.

What are you going to choose to embody? The Voice for Truth, or a
private, separated ego sense of Paul? What is it that you are going to
choose to identify you, or at the least identify your choice and your
fundamental motives? You see, the stumbling block here is the belief
that the intelligence and the love and the truth, et cetera, that you
have been expressing was, indeed, a possession of yours, an attribute of
yours that gave you some semblance of substance and, I will say,
authority. But, they were not. And so, the apparent sacrifice is not a
sacrifice at all. It is a shift of choices. That is all.

Are you going to channel your ego, or are you going to channel the Voice
for Truth? That is really the issue here, because you are no more the
ego than you are the Voice for Truth.

Now, the great miracle in all of this is that when you choose to be the
embodiment and expression of the Voice for Truth, you wake up! And when
you are choosing for your own limited capacity to reason and think and
come to conclusions and make decisions, and apparently act
authoritatively, you are bound in a dream of existence. And no matter
how many others are joined with you in that dream, it remains a dream,
and it substantiates the dream.

So, you cannot rely upon the thousands or even millions of mankind who
stand in agreement with your limited self-perception as justification
for not making the choice to express and embody the Voice for Truth, nor
can your departure from that agreement and your choice to embody the
Voice for Truth be truly judged as a dishonest or arrogant limited
self-appraisal, because as you are well aware, it does not amount to a
self-appraisal. When you are making the choice for the Voice for Truth,
it does not appear to be a choice for That which You Are. But it is a
choice for that which inescapably provides the experience of Integrity
and Peace and invulnerability, which the choice for the ego and the
dream never did provide—which gives you a clue that you are on the right
track.

I will repeat it again: The great miracle of this is that when you make
the choice to express and embody the Voice for Truth, you wake up! You
come back into your right Mind. And the Brotherhood and the Kingdom of
Heaven that you are in becomes illuminated to you as It is—not as it is
perceived to be from within the limited ego frame of reference.

This you will have to trust me on. But you do not have to trust me on
the fact that when you make the choice to Listen, to be present with and
express the Voice for Truth, you experience your Self more clearly as
having Integrity, as being invulnerable, as being at peace—not just
absent of anxiety, but in a rich, deep, broad experience of Peace that
feels good and is, for lack of better words, nourishing to every fibre
of your Being.

Let it be very clear to you that the ego that you would channel is an
authoritative sense of self which is totally illusory. If you are
experiencing a sense of authority and the high that comes with it, you
may know that you are out of touch with Reality. But, if you are
expressing the Voice for Truth, and are experiencing no sense of
authority or authorship whatsoever, you are in the process of waking up,
and you are closer to the Truth, experientially, than ever before.

Know also that the sense of authorship experienced from the ego
standpoint is a sense of claiming that you are intelligent. It is a
matter of claiming that you are loving, when even in the dream that is
not the case, because in the dream you seem to have the choice for being
intelligent or unintelligent, reasonable or unreasonable, loving or
hateful, kind or cruel. Obviously you cannot be either one of those
pairs, because you have made a conscious choice for one or the other. In
other words, you have adopted one or the other as expressive of what you
value. And then you have practiced at embodying the choice you have
made. So, you see, it doesn’t really constitute a real Authorship.

Honesty or dishonesty is not the issue here. Whether you are making a
false claim and sacrificing what was real and didn’t need to be claimed,
is not the issue here. The issue is whether you are going to choose for
the powerless vantage point of the ego which promises power, or the
powerless vantage point of your Being, which is omnipotent and therefore
doesn’t promise power, but which, because It is omnipotent, is powerful,
with no occasion to utilize it powerfully, and therefore never implies,
insinuates, or suggests a potential for power.

You see, the suggestion is that you are sacrificing something of
substance for something which is hollow. But what you must realize is
that the “something of substance” called the ego frame of reference is
hollow also! It is empty of Reality, and your Being is empty of
illusion.

You must make the choice, and after you make the choice for the Voice
for Truth and the shift occurs, we will then talk about the dishonesty
of it… if, at that point, you feel so inclined to pursue the subject.
