---
title: March 29 1991 Friday 
nxt: /nwffacim/grad/g000000/
prev: /nwffacim/grad/g032591/
---

Paul: I need to hear anything you have to say at this time.

Raj: Paul, the impasse you find yourself at is a temptation—a temptation
to take things in your own hands, to revert to your conditioned,
historical behavior and means of dealing with situations. Indeed, this
is exactly the time when self-protection is unnecessary! This is the
time when it is unavoidably important for you to insist upon staying in
touch with me, just as those circumstances where something unlovely is
confronting you are exactly the time that love is called for, and not
the typical, habitual, conditioned response of revulsion.

Is the Father presenting you with a threatening experience? Absolutely
not. Is the Kingdom of Heaven unfolding a crisis? Inconceivable. Then,
Paul, the fact is that you are not confronted with what your ego, your
conditioned thinking, is defining as a crisis, and you are not faced
with anything less than the manifestation of Love.

You project doom, based upon ignorance—based upon limited perception.
And is this going to cause you to more firmly depend upon limited
perception, especially in light of everything we have been speaking
about? No, indeed. I will acknowledge that although you have come close
to taking action based upon memory and acquired “intelligent” movements
of response, you have not acted, and you have insisted upon coming back
to me for this conversation before doing anything further.

I will not ever recommend that you take actions which will be
detrimental to you—harmful, injurious. Our relationship is one in which
there is only one function. That function is to reveal, illuminate, and
bring forth as conscious experience, your Self—which, of course, means
the conscious experience of your union with the Father. In Biblical
terms it does indeed mean letting that mind be in you which was also,
and is also, in me. It means claiming no other mind that can function
independent from and at odds with the infinite and only Mind there is,
and therefore the infinite and only Identity you could possibly have.
Your ego is self-derived. Your Consciousness, your Being, is
God-derived.

Now, who or what are you going to cast your lot with? In what are you
going to invest your faith? In what are you going to trust? Shall we
trust the ego just a little bit longer until you get over this hurdle,
until your rent is paid and your bills are paid, and then you’ll ease up
and check in with me once in awhile, connect with your Birthright once
in awhile? The Biblical injunction is, “Choose ye!” Make the choice!

Paul: All right. My next question would be, how do I do that at times
other than when I am specifically talking with you like this, or we are
engaged in a Workshop, or when people are speaking with you? How do I do
it at times other than those?

Raj: Simply, Paul, by being present with me instead of the activity. I
mean by that: All the while you are engaged in the activity, be present
with me, just as you are in a conversation or in a Workshop. You are
obviously present in a Workshop or in a conversation. You are sitting in
your chair. You are moving your hands and arms. Your mouth, your tongue,
your vocal cords are all moving. There is most certainly activity. You
will shift your position in your chair, et cetera, but you are not
attentive to the circumstances or the one with whom you are speaking.
You are abiding consciously with me. And the result is that you are more
truly present with whoever is speaking with me, and with your world.

I will make it very simple, here. When you are aligned with me, you are
experiencing a holy relationship. When you are aligned with your fellow
man or anything in your world, you are in a special relationship. This
ultimately means that all illusion is a result of special relationships!
The veil that will be rent in Awakening is, indeed, the veil of special
relationships, including the illusion called the ego. Needless to say,
this is the key point.

Such a statement could imply that one must withdraw from relationships
with his or her fellow human beings and engage in a relationship with
his Guide, or the Holy Spirit, or God, and that this would constitute a
rejection of what you recognize to be human relationships. If this were
believed, it would be disastrous.

The fact is that when one is in a special relationship, one is in no
relationship, because each of the partners in the relationship is
represented only by the sense of self which has developed in the
fundamental context of disregard for the Father, disregard for the
essential element of each partner’s Being. There is no one real present
in the relationship because the sense of who each one is grew out of the
mutually-agreed-upon decision to be whatever the two, together, decided
to define themselves as. And the definition is never the thing.

However, because you have become accustomed to the definition of
yourself, and your others have become accustomed to their definition of
you and of themselves, abandoning the definition appears to be an
abandonment of the relationship—apparently a significant loss. But, you
have had enough experience, and those with you have had enough
experience, and those with you have had enough experience of you being
out from our relationship that they know they have felt truly embraced,
truly touched, and truly related to. In addition to that, the
relationship has always been healing, enlightening, and
transformational—something that has never happened from within the
framework of the special relationship.

So, you may know that you will not become meaningless. You will not lose
the ability to relate with others in your world, or with your world, if
you dare to relate to it from within our relationship, our
moment-by-moment conscious experience of unity, togetherness, oneness.

Now, do not think that this union, this “marriage,” if you will, of you
and me, will be the permanent state of affairs, because as I indicated
earlier in these conversations, this union with me, even though it
states an eternal fact—in other words, the union will eternally exist as
a conscious experience—its function at this point is to facilitate your
regaining Consciousness Here where we actually Are, in full possession
of your conscious experience of Who You Are.

Right now, you, apparently more ignorant than me, are joining with me.
It can certainly appear to be a relationship of dependency. But, in
fact, it is the means of getting you to have your attention Here where I
am, which is Here where you really Are. As a result of the consistent
placement of your awareness where you really Are, even though I am the
focal point for this exercise, you will wake up. You will, as they say,
come to your senses, spiritual senses—the full comprehension of You. Not
less intelligent, not more ignorant than me, but like me!

Whether one joins with his Guide, or the Holy Spirit, or the
Father—forever neglecting to identify with and energize a special
relationship—the end result is certain.

Awakening! Regaining Consciousness! Graduation!
