---
title: March 20 1991 Wednesday 
nxt: /nwffacim/grad/g032191/
prev: /nwffacim/grad/g031991/
---

Paul: There are still many unanswered questions. And when I consider
them, it all becomes very confusing, and I even question whether the
questions are valid, or whether they, themselves, constitute a
distraction.

As you can see, I am confused. Nevertheless, I obviously need to know
more. I will say that my confusion lies in the lack of being able to
make a connection between what you are saying and the meeting of our
daily needs, or the practical aspects of, let us say, putting out the
Newsletter, or any publications, the distribution of the materials, et
cetera. Anyway, help me get my nose pointed in the right direction.

Raj: Paul, the problem is that you start considering the questions
before you have joined in Communion with me. And thus, you are
considering the questions from the standpoint of the ego, from the
standpoint of thinking and reasoning and coming to conclusions—the
time-worn process of remaining ignorant. So, do not be surprised. And
also, do not take the distress associated with this process as valid.

The problem is that you only consciously align yourself with the Homing
beacon when you are going to speak with me, or when a Conversation with
someone else is going to occur—a Conversation someone else is going to
have with me. And, indeed, one of your considerations has been, what if
you began your day as though it were the same as approaching a
Conversation. And, Paul, you stymie yourself by trying to imagine what
that would be like, or how it would work. As you have said jokingly,
“How does Raj play Pictionary?” Or how would one Who is totally Awake
play games or engage in the daily events of life?

Well, you cannot arrive at an understanding of that through logic and
reasoning and figuring things out. You must do it to find out. And I
encourage you to do it with a sense of exploration, a sense of
curiosity, as always. The elements always remain the same, Paul—the
practice of becoming Centered, and then engaging curiosity, and then
Listening. In other words, being out from the awareness that is
experienced as a result of being Centered with a single-minded devotion
to Listening, and then Hearing—or, more accurately, Knowing what is
appropriate.

Treat every event of your day as a stepping-stone or trigger to Knowing.
I will promise you that once you begin to do this, the concern you have
felt about sacrificing yourself by giving your attention entirely to
Listening and Hearing will dissolve completely.

Now, whenever you or anyone else engages in a Conversation with me, you
are engaging in Communion. And if you approached your day and the
apparent demands of it, and the dynamics and elements of it, as though
they were in Communion with me, and therefore ultimately in Communion
with You, your perception would become radically altered—not only your
perception of yourself, but your perception of the day and its elements
or dynamics.

Treat your involvement with the many aspects of your day as a holy
opportunity for the experience of Communion.

I will counter that thought by pointing out that you did not know what
to expect when you first opened up to inner guidance. And you do not
have to know what to expect in order to simply embellish the experience
of Communion that you are already well familiar with by embracing every
other aspect of your day and night in the same way that you embrace
“formal Conversations with Raj,” or “Workshops.”

Now, we are going to stop for a moment. I do not want you to think about
what I have said. I want you to abide with it for a short time, here,
and then we will continue.

\[Short pause.\]

Now, I am not going to elaborate further on this point at this time. But
I am going to encourage you to dare to treat every life experience in
your day with the same reverence, the same devotion that you treat the
Conversations which others have with me.

You already know that everyone comes to me for the purpose of having
his/her divinity recognized. I want you to start treating every aspect
of your day in the same way, whether it is a tree that you are looking
at, or an automobile, or your wife, or your son, or any aspect of your
day—the bills that come in, et cetera. Treat them as that which comes
for the purpose of having its divinity recognized, not your current
definition of it. This is very important, and I encourage you to do it
with some pleasure. Have a good time with it.

Now, the meaning of the film, War Games, was crystallized in the line,
“The only way to win the game, is not to play the game at all.” What do
you suppose the first move of ego-hood was which constituted what has
come to be called “The Fall”? I will tell you. It was the question, “Who
am I?”

Why do you think you are having trouble with your identity? It is
because in the process of undoing the movement away from Home, you have
been brought back to that initial act of separation—”Who am I?” And if
you don’t refrain from asking that question right now, you will not get
past that initial act of departure from Sanity into your Wholeness. It
is completely inevitable and natural that this issue would come up at
this point, because it is the last part of the undoing.

You have, for the better part of your life, this lifetime—and, of
course, any prior lifetimes—felt fairly confident that you knew who you
were. But now, as you have engaged for the past nine years in being the
expression of something that you cannot identify as you, and now you are
at a point of being asked to let there be nothing else present where you
are but this that you cannot identify as you, this question of who you
are becomes paramount to you, and confusing to you, because there seem
to be two things going on—you, being who you think you are and have
thought you always knew you were, and you, being the presence of
something very meaningful, but which you cannot account for. And
literally, to get past this impasse, you must simply stop asking and
trying to find out who you are.

Tell me, what must inevitably follow such a question as, “Who am I”? It
must necessarily be a cognitive process of thinking and reasoning and
logic which brings you to a conclusion called a “definition.”

I will point out something to you: Biblically speaking, in the Adam and
Eve Allegory, what was the first answer that was the result of that
question? The first answer was, “I am ashamed.” The first answer was
guilt! The first answer was that which called for forgiveness. That is
always the result of the first move of the ego. Then there was a sense
of being a man and a woman. And, of course, once those definitions were
arrived at, the questions were, “Well, what is that?” and, “What is
that?” and, “What is that?” and, “What is that?” And more definitions
came tumbling forth. And the only way to win this game of illusion is
not to play the game at all.

The only way not to play the game is not to make the first move. And the
first move is the question, “Who am I?” And so, if you are going to undo
the game, you are going to have to stop asking, “Who am I?” You are
going to have to stop energizing and validating that question.

You Are! You are not a “who” or a “what.” You Are! And the proof of your
existence is the experience of Consciousness. And the experience of
Consciousness is the experience of Knowing. But that is not a thing.
That is not an object. That is not something that can be defined. It is
a fluid movement of being. And so, understand why you are having this
problem at this time, and that the confusion about who you are, and
whether you are going to be giving up who you are, is totally illusory,
and is an essential quest … ion that needs to be dropped from your
awareness. It needs to be released.

Now, that is what you do when these conversation occur. That is what you
are doing at this moment. You are not asking who you are, and the
experience of Knowing is occurring. And you are very conscious of being.
But what it is you are is irrelevant, because it is full of the Meaning
of Knowing.

The age-old question, “Who am I?” is a straw dog. It is bait. The
suggestion is that if you can find out who you are, you will be
fulfilled. And it has been a lie!

So, now you are at a point of having the conscious opportunity to
release that first move away from Home. And that is why it seems so
paramount. I will leave you on that point for the time being.
