---
title: March 22 1991 Friday 
nxt: /nwffacim/grad/g032591/
prev: /nwffacim/grad/g032191/
---

Paul: Okay. Here I am. And, I do wish to thank you and those who were,
as you put it, standing in a chorus of support, for being present all
night and into the day, because, indeed, there is a greater sense of
stableness today. And, I don’t come with questions, but with desire to
hear what you have to say.

Raj: Indeed, Paul, the evenness and peace you are experiencing is, from
our standpoint, an indication of less preoccupation with the elements of
unconsciousness, and a more consistent presence of attention Here with
us—or, you could say, Here where You Are.

The stability of this presence Here, even if it is a minimal conscious
experience of “being Here” for you, is the manifestation of the jelling
which I referred to last night. And so you may gather, thereby, that the
jelling is not a matter of intellectual aha’s on your part from your
limited frame of reference, which would then allow you to more
effectively move forward on stepping-stones of further refined
intellectual processes.

I have said before, you will not understand your way into the Kingdom of
Heaven. You will yield into It. And you know what that means? It means
less and less effort being put forth by you intellectually, or as “a
mind” which is reasoning its way through the blocks to its fulfillment.
When you are yielding into the Kingdom of Heaven, you are yielding up
the activities of mind that have heretofore identified you to you.

What I want you to notice is that as the yielding occurs, there is what
you might call greater detachment from your world—and I mean by that,
greater detachment from the apparent threats to your safety and well
being which seems to be part of the world you are perceiving—and what
you might call a greater capacity to experience the Peace of your Being,
which, as I indicated, is really the stabilizing of your being minimally
Conscious in Reality, Here where we are, Here where You Are, truly.

You cannot lift yourself up by your bootstraps into the Kingdom of
Heaven because you are Here, and you have been Here all along. Any
effort to lift yourself by your bootstraps must be done within the
limited three-dimensional frame of reference and will constitute a
limited three-dimensional action which will, of course, necessarily
substantiate your existence three-dimensionally—or shall I say,
ignorantly.

This is why it is said that your fulfillment is by the grace of God, not
by the grace of your skill or ability or strength or persistence or
practice of obediences or religious ritual. You experience your
fulfillment and wake up in the Kingdom of Heaven by the grace of God.
And let me tell you something: the grace of God is not a special
dispensation to you or anyone else. It is not that on the day you wake
up, God will sign the divine decree for you and, by His grace, you will
be the one at that moment to wake up.

You see, literally the reason you don’t have to do anything to wake up
in the Kingdom of Heaven and manage to escape the three-dimensional
frame of reference is because you never were in the three-dimensional
frame of reference and have always been in the Kingdom of Heaven. It is
only the private, personal sense of self which experiences itself within
its own self-imposed limits that would, by virtue of some great effort
on its part, have to do something to deserve or earn the right to wake
up.

You wake up by the grace of God—meaning by virtue of putting forth no
effort yourself as a tiny three-dimensional mortal—because you are in
the Kingdom of Heaven, and you are the Christ. You are the presence of
God expressed. And that is why you, as a three-dimensional finite
limited mortal need do nothing!

I mentioned last night that it is necessary for you to pay attention to
something which is Fourth-dimensional, and which Knows Itself to be
Fourth-dimensional—and that is called Joining. But, let me ask you,
since you have had a great deal of experience in this: When you join
with me, does that constitute any kind of overt three-dimensional
action? Indeed, the answer is, absolutely not. It requires that you
become defenseless. It requires that you become still—meaning, that you
are exercising no willfulness in the form of thinking, which obscures
your ability to join with That which is Fourth-dimensional, and thereby
access your experience of your Fourth-dimensionality, your divinity,
your presence Here in the Kingdom of Heaven. It means letting in! It
means being receptive. It means not being aggressively, actively present
in the world, three-dimensionally speaking.

So, literally, Joining is not a joining in a masculine sense, but in a
feminine sense. And, indeed, I am specifically referring to masculine
and feminine sexual joining. The more relaxed and flexible and yielding,
and the less controlled, the more fulfilling is the experience for the
female partner.

Now, you are very much present with us today. I am not saying that you
are more Conscious, but you are more consistent in the degree of
Consciousness. The more you can remember that this is not an effortful
process, and that indeed all you need do is be attentive to my Voice,
and therefore attentive to the fact that there must be a source for this
Voice and a “place” for this presence to be, along with others, the
easier it will be for your point of awareness to emerge further and
further into the experience of Conscious awareness.

It is natural for you to be in your right Mind, and therefore, when
there is less strenuous effort to maintain a limited frame of reference
and definition of everything, waking up begins to happen spontaneously.

Indeed, it is not necessary for us to talk continuously, because even in
your silence, even in my silence, there is a most active connection
Here. And I am pleased that you are not asking about your identity. That
also is part of what is contributing to the continuity and stability of
your being present Here, even though your experience of being Here is at
the moment confined to an uninterrupted experience of Peace, and of our
presence—I mean by that, those of us who are Here with you, standing,
again, in active chorus of support.

I encourage you simply to experience being Conscious, as you are. I also
want to tell you that where you are, Here, with us, is a “place” that
you are totally familiar with. When you have a night dream and find
yourself in an exotic or peculiar environment, and the alarm goes off
and you wake up and instantaneously find yourself in your bedroom—a
place quite different from the exotic or peculiar environment you had
been experiencing—you may say, “What? What?” But, you will immediately
notice that you are in the real world, your bedroom that you are
completely familiar with. Even so, this process of regaining
Consciousness, although it will embrace experiences not included in the
dream—the three-dimensional-only frame of reference—will nevertheless be
one that you have been eternally familiar with. And you will know us,
and you will know your Self, and you will know this Place, Reality, the
Kingdom of Heaven.

Stay on the tone, the feel of the Peace, and of the experience of not
being alone in that Peace. And although no actual movement is occurring,
I can only say that there is clearer conscious presence Here exhibited
by you.

Paul: Continue.

Raj: Yes, you wake up from a night dream through an overt exertion of
will. And you wake up from the day dream, you wake up into the Kingdom
of Heaven, through an utter absence of will.

Now, you are beginning to wander—not by virtue of thinking, but, indeed,
by virtue of paying attention to the meditative state you find yourself
to be in. The meditative state is not the focus. Stay connected with me
and the feeling of union with all of us present.

\[Phone rang, followed by a period of meditation.\]

Paul: I have been sitting here for a good half hour. Anyway, it’s been
quite awhile. And I’m wondering if anything is happening, or whether I
have just slipped into, let’s say, a three-dimensional
meditation—whatever that means?

Raj: The key point is, Paul, that during this period, you have been
asking me if I am here, and you have been listening to me say, “Listen
to my voice.” “Listen to my voice.” Over and over. Understand, Paul,
that you do not have to move yourself from anywhere to anywhere. You
cannot, because there is no “where” to move to, since you are doing all
of this from your destination—or, you might say, from the point of
departure into your dream.

Again, the key is to listen to my Voice.
