---
title: Apr 25, 2015
ref: T19.6 Obstacles to Peace; Belief the Body is Valuable&hellip;
alink: "/acim/text/19/chap1906/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

Let&rsquo;s go back to the Beginning. A little refresher helps.

In the Beginning there was peace. In the Beginning there was fullness.
In the Beginning there was indivisible wholeness. In the Beginning was
the experience of omnipotence. The only thing was, that omnipotence
wasn&rsquo;t something enacted by the Sons and Daughters and God. It
was, rather, experienced as invulnerability&mdash;the absence of any
call for any act of authority whatsoever.  And Being&mdash;the
experience of Being&mdash;was the conscious experience of the Movement
of Creation in its pristine perfection because there was nothing present
in the omnipresence of God to create a distortion of any sort.

And so again, in the Beginning, there was peace. Then as we&rsquo;ve
discussed through the years, a decision was made by two or more Sons and
Daughters of God. They said to each other in so many words,
&ldquo;Let&rsquo;s pretend &hellip; let&rsquo;s pretend that the tree is
not an idea, but is something quite physically tangible in its own right
and it derives its life from moisture from the ground it is growing in.
And in fact, it is growing in the ground&mdash;lets decide that for
sure. It is not what we have experienced it to be&mdash;the ever-present
illuminated Presence of the Love of God exhibiting Life, Truth,
Intelligence, Principle, Mind, Soul and Spirit as is the ground, as is
the moisture, and nothing is living off of anything else. But no,
let&rsquo;s pretend otherwise.  Let&rsquo;s agree together, let&rsquo;s
decide to imagine and make commitment to our imagination.&rdquo;

Now, as we&rsquo;ve discussed, something happened that was quite
surprising. Because after all, this &ldquo;decision&rdquo; was made by
those who had experienced omnipotence, meaning
invulnerability&mdash;eternal unchangeable harmony of Being. And so when
this decision to stop referring everything that they were experiencing
back to the Father, which was their part in the Movement of
Creation&mdash;their co-creative part&mdash;they, in effect, divorced
themselves from That which was Being them, That which was expressing
Itself and appearing as Them. And the surprise was, that the experience
of omnipotence vanished. It wasn&rsquo;t expected, because the decision
was being made by those who knew they were omnipotent.

Now two things came into play instantaneously and automatically. And the
reason it came into play was because it was the innate sanity of the
Sons and Daughters of God who were going to pretend to be disconnected
from their Source. The sanity that was making it clear at an
experiential level that they could not become something less than what
the Father was Being them as, couldn&rsquo;t happen without the
experience of dissonance&mdash;something that said, &ldquo;don&rsquo;t
do this, it is impossible. You will discover the impossibility of it.
And while you are discovering the impossibility of it, you will not be
comfortable because you will be in a state of Self-denial.&rdquo;

And two things came into play&mdash;like two sides of a coin: The first
was fear, although they didn&rsquo;t come in a specific order, they came
simultaneously, and the second was guilt. Fear and guilt inundated them.
Nevertheless, because they still knew they were omnipotent even though
they couldn&rsquo;t understand why they weren&rsquo;t experiencing it,
they insisted upon being independent with more intensity, with more
willfulness. The act of independence was the obstacle to peace.

The act of independence which brought into play fear and guilt, was the
obstacle to peace. It was that which disallowed for That which was from
the Beginning and still was the Fact and the purpose of It was to say,
&ldquo;don&rsquo;t proceed any further down this path.&rdquo; But the
desire for power, the desire to engage in an action which would defeat
the fear and the guilt was brought into play.

And so, the obstacle to peace, which was the act of independence, took
on some additional character&mdash;four characteristics. And right now
in this place in the Course, these four things are being discussed. And
we are resuming in the second section of the OBSTACLES TO PEACE,
entitled: The Belief the Body is Valuable for What it Offers. And
although I said we would start on a certain paragraph, I am moving back
to the beginning, about six paragraphs of this section.

It says:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
We said that peace must first surmount the
obstacle of your desire to get rid of it.[^1]
</div>

Interesting. Now we&rsquo;ve discussed this previously. But why would
you want to get rid of the peace? You would want to get rid of the peace
because it would mean you would lose this sense of authority&mdash;this
sense of independent power, willfulness, that causes you to seem to be
of importance all by yourself on your own.

Why would you want peace when it requires you to lose an experience of
strength&mdash;of having a will of your own? Well, only because you
don&rsquo;t realize that it&rsquo;s an illusion. But because you
don&rsquo;t, you held onto it, and exercised it with more fervor.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Where the attraction of guilt holds sway, peace
is not WANTED.
</div>

Well, you know, this will come up later. Another reason not to abandon
this thrill&mdash;the hit of independent willful action, and the promise
of personal power that it seems to hold. Why would you want to let go of
that if it meant returning to the Father &hellip; deferring to the
Father, honoring the Father, wouldn&rsquo;t your disobedience be
punished? You see?

That&rsquo;s another reason&mdash;that is the fourth reason for not
embracing your peace once again. And that&rsquo;s an illusion too,
caused by the fact that everything you&rsquo;re perceiving now is in the
imagination and isn&rsquo;t true and isn&rsquo;t real.  Again:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Where the attraction of guilt holds sway, peace
is not WANTED.
</div>

And let&rsquo;s be very clear. If you are not joined constantly with
That which is nothing more than your right Mind&mdash;the Holy
Spirit&mdash;and if you are not joined with me all the time, if you are
not companioning with That or those which are Awake, you are in the
realm of imagination. You are where fear and guilt govern and you are
where fear and guilt govern the way you experience everything including
the return Home &hellip; including your return to embrace the Holy
Spirit &hellip; including your willingness to join with me. All of it is
colored by fear and guilt.

And so, there is resistance&mdash;obstacles to peace.

Now, to summarize what we&rsquo;ve discussed in the previous chapter,
the previous section &hellip;

PAUL: I&rsquo;m sorry. This is me, Paul, I lost it &hellip; just a
moment &hellip;

RAJ: Continuing &hellip; in the first paragraph of the Obstacles to
Peace, Part II:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The second obstacle that peace must flow across,
and closely related to the first, is the belief that the body is
valuable for what it offers. For here is the attraction of guilt made
manifest in the body, and SEEN in it.
</div>

Now we&rsquo;ve already covered this in the last meeting. But to
summarize it: The body is your means of presenting force to your
willfulness. It is the means by which you exercise power to make change
or to coerce people, whether it&rsquo;s through fist fights, whether
it&rsquo;s through a caress, whether it&rsquo;s through a loud voice,
whether it&rsquo;s through a physical demeanor that expresses commitment
and therefore apparent strength and so on. You use the body as the means
of exerting force literally, to make change. And in this state of
independence governed by fear and guilt, you have developed a
theory&mdash;a set of concepts&mdash;that suggest that to whatever
degree you are able to bring forth into play, whether for good or for
ill, it increases your independent existence and will ultimately bring
you, like Pinocchio, to a point of becoming a real boy on your own,
which we&rsquo;ve discussed before, as well.

And so, put simply, the body is the second thing used as an obstacle to
peace.  Why would you abandon that which promises you reality without
being connected to your Source and brings into play capacities of
thought and reason and logic that will cause you to succeed in this
task&mdash;capacities God gave you and set you free to utilize&mdash;so
you could make something out of yourself? That&rsquo;s the theory that
has arisen out of independence and the resulting fear and guilt.
It&rsquo;s the obstacle to peace.

Why is peace important? Because in the silence of your Being when your
independent chatter of the mind and the willfulness with which you use
your mind for purposes other than peace, if you had disengaged from
that, you are afraid that will succumb to all of the
worst&mdash;everything will collapse, there will be no order.

But that&rsquo;s because in the realm of fear and guilt, you can&rsquo;t
remember that order and peace were the first law of Being. Peace was in
the Beginning.  Peace, because God hasn&rsquo;t changed, is still in the
Now, in the Present. Peace has gone nowhere and what you divinely Are
hasn&rsquo;t changed one bit.

Recognizing the obstacles to peace and abandoning them, puts you at the
threshold of remembering who you divinely Are. It puts you at the
threshold of hearing the Holy Spirit remind you gently but firmly, and
encouragingly, and lovingly of what it is your Birthright to be
consciously experiencing instead of fear and guilt and everything you
have associated with it.

The end of the obstacles to peace comes in the holy instant. It comes in
the two-step, where you shut up, and in the genuine humble Silence that
is present, you reach out beyond any of your best thinking and you say,
&ldquo;Father, Holy Spirit, what is the truth here? What is the
experience that it is my Birthright to be having, which I lost the
experience of when I decided to try to be independent and cherish the
independence?&rdquo; And then stay in the Silence.  Continue to bring
your attention to the threshold of Awakening&mdash;the threshold by
which you abandon your independence.

Now, most of this I have said before. In the Silence, when you are
genuinely, trustingly, humbly and even sometimes humiliatedly listening
because you are feeling incapable and not objecting to it, Revelation
occurs&mdash;inspiration infills you&mdash;the Holy Spirit, your right
Mind responds and registers with you.  The Christ can reach you. The
Father can reach you. Your Guides can reach you and they do. And there
is a shift of perception that occurs.

Peace is fleshed out with the experience of why it&rsquo;s
incontrovertible, unchangeable, eternal, and why it&rsquo;s an excellent
description of the omnipotence of your Being&mdash;the invulnerability
of your Being. That means that authority never has to be brought into
play for self-defense. And this changes your perception about your
brothers and sisters and about your world.

Now, continuing into the fourth paragraph of this section: It says
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Peace is extended from you only to the eternal,
and it reaches out from the eternal in YOU.
</div>

When you abandon the independence where mortality, not eternality is the
rule, when you step out of it, you experience the eternal that has
always been present, active and inseparable from you because it&rsquo;s
your nature instigated by the Father&rsquo;s act of Self-expression.

So, when you move in to the holy instant, when you allow peace by
devaluing all of your best skilled independent thinking and listen, and
hear, you move out of that realm of mortality. You experience your
eternality, and I will tell you something, whatever you experience about
the Truth of you, you simultaneously recognize as being the Truth about
your fellowman and it&rsquo;s so simple then to be able to appreciate
and honor your fellowman in that place. And so &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Peace is extended from you only to the eternal, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning, to all that really exists, all of Creation including
your brothers &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and it reaches out from the eternal in YOU.
</div>

Do you see? It means that your willingness to abandon the obstacle to
peace that values your body for the power it can bring into play in
order to secure your safety, make you important, and also cause you to
become a &ldquo;real boy&rdquo; independent of your Source, when you
abandon that, your experience of your brothers and sisters is that they
have been released from it as well *in your conscious awareness of
them*. The eternal in you extends to the eternal in them that you are
recognizing and experiencing, and blesses them.

Again:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Peace is extended from you only to the eternal,
and it reaches out from the eternal in YOU. It flows across all else.
The second obstacle &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the valuing of the body and not wanting to let go of the good
it brings to you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The second obstacle is no more solid than the
first. For you will neither to get rid of peace NOR limit it. What are
these obstacles which you would interpose between peace and its going
forth but barriers you place between your will and its accomplishment?
</div>

This is important. You place barriers between your will and the
accomplishment of your will. But this is not speaking here of your human
will, or I will put it this way, your divine will perceived through the
lens of fear and guilt which cause it to seem quite separated from That
which placed It in you and continues to express It in you as you at this
moment.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You WANT communion, not the feast of fear.
</div>

That&rsquo;s your will.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You WANT salvation, not the pain of guilt.
</div>

You do not want to be experiencing either of the two sides of the
coin&mdash;fear or guilt. But as long as you choose for fear and guilt
and the wonderful challenge of overcoming them all by yourself, you keep
fear and guilt alive and block your willingness to let your true will be
accomplished.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And you want your Father, NOT a little mound of
clay, to be your home.
</div>

Now:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have paid very dearly for your illusions,
and nothing you have paid for brought you peace. Are you not GLAD
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; GLAD &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; that Heaven cannot be sacrificed, and
sacrifice cannot be asked of you?
</div>

It&rsquo;s impossible for the omnipotence of God to be overthrown by a
puny little willful act of imagination. It&rsquo;s impossible. And no
matter what you&rsquo;ve thought you&rsquo;ve done, you haven&rsquo;t
done it! And whatever you think because of your fear and guilt, that you
will be punished for, you never did. Therefore, punishment is not
awaiting you, but like the Prodigal Son, embrace and the abundance, the
infiniteness of the Father is bestowed upon you. Not because you
didn&rsquo;t have it and the Father finally brings it to you, but
because you&rsquo;re not blocking what was never taken away from you,
except that which you chose to ignore in the excitement and fun of
trying to be something you cannot be and overcoming the dissonance of
fear and guilt that accompanied it.

This has to be becoming clearer and clearer.

You know what? Every moment is the threshold of illusion or Truth. At
every moment, you, the holy Son or Daughter of God is confronted by the
Kingdom of Heaven and nothing else! If you choose to view it from a
state of independence where fear and guilt color everything you&rsquo;re
seeing, you seem to have lost your holiness. In fact, it&rsquo;s hard to
believe that you really are holy. But your holiness has not deteriorated
nor declined in the least through all of this imagination.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; Heaven cannot be sacrificed, and
sacrifice cannot be asked of you? There IS no obstacle which you can
place before our union, for in your holy relationship I am there
already.
</div>

That means: in your holy relationship with your brothers and sisters or
the trees or the lady bugs or the scorpions or the grass, I am there
already with you. The Holy Spirit&mdash;that which is nothing more than
your infinite capacity to experience everything without
distortion&mdash;is there already.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
We will surmount all obstacles together, for we
stand within the gates, and not outside.
</div>

What does that mean? It means you and we stand within the Presence of
Mind in which the conscious experience of everything is going on, and in
which the meaning and substantiality and validity of everything is
waiting your acknowledgement and your recognition that God&mdash;the
Infinite Mind&mdash;is expressing those ideas perfectly, eternally.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
How easily the gates are opened from within,
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning, from the presence of mind that you are &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; to let peace through to bless the tired
world!
</div>

Meaning, to cause the transformation of the Kingdom of Heaven that you
were seeing as a troubled world, back into what it truly is, the Kingdom
of Heaven&mdash;a healed world, Creation with no more distortions
blinding you to Its glory and your glory&mdash;because it&rsquo;s your
role to be co-creator in the Movement of Creation.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Can it be difficult for us to walk past barriers
together, when you have joined the limitless?
</div>

And I&rsquo;m going to add, *&ldquo;instead of the finite.&rdquo;*
You&rsquo;re not alone. You&rsquo;re accompanied by your very own
divinity, the Holy Spirit. You&rsquo;re accompanied by me. You&rsquo;re
not accompanied by the Father. You are initiated by the Father now
&hellip; now &hellip; now &hellip; now &hellip; now. The eternal idea
that you are is constantly infused with the brand new expression of the
energy of God and you miss this when you choose to operate within the
realm of fear and guilt, and make commitment to being there and staying
there.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The end of guilt &hellip;
</div>

Listen to this:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The end of guilt is in your hands to &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what? Not take hold of. Not to create, but to give.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The end of guilt is in your hands to give.
</div>

That means engaging in forgiveness. That means looking at the Kingdom of
Heaven and withdrawing your misperception, your highly valued
misperception which gives you a feeling of importance that you&rsquo;re
unwilling to let go of because you need to know that there is something
valid about you, but you can&rsquo;t see it when you&rsquo;re looking
through the lens of fear and guilt.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The end of guilt is in your hands to give. Would
you stop now to look for guilt in each other?
</div>

Would you?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Would you stop now to look for guilt in each other?
</div>

You *must*, no matter what justifications you think you have. Those
justifications are pure imagination colored by guilt and fear, which
stops you in your tracks from coming Home, from yielding to the Father,
from letting your right Mind back in to be the totality of you.

Now that&rsquo;s where we ended up when we were last reading from the
*Obstacles to Peace*. Continuing&hellip; 

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Let me be to you the symbol of the END of guilt,
and look upon each other as you would look on me.
</div>

In other words, look upon each other as the symbol of the end of guilt.
Your brothers and sisters are holy Sons and Daughters of God. They are
guiltless, no matter what the definition you are applying to them, no
matter what the definition they are applying to themselves, when both of
you are insisting upon looking at everything through the lens of fear
and guilt.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Forgive me all the sins you think the Son of God
&hellip;
</div>

Meaning your brothers, your sisters &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; committed.

Forgive me all the sins you think [they] committed. And in the light of
your forgiveness, he &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your brother or your sister &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; will remember who he is, and forget
what never was.
</div>

You don&rsquo;t believe that. You have too much experience behind you to
say that having faith in your brother doesn&rsquo;t always work,
&ldquo;and with this one it never has worked!&rdquo; And you believe
yourself. You don&rsquo;t realize that this has nothing to do with your
brother, but it has entirely to do with an idea in your own mind which
has been put through the sieve of fear and guilt and is causing you to
misapprehend your brother and sister. And as long as you are committed
to that, you will not find your brother or sister remembering who he is,
but rather reacting to your lousy perception which you are holding him
to and attempting to convince him of, by means of your lousy unloving
behavior.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I ask for your forgiveness, for if you are
guilty, so must I be.
</div>

A simple sentence absolutely true: Life changing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I ask for your forgiveness, for if you are
guilty, so must I be. But if I surmounted guilt and overcame the world,
YOU were with me. Would you see in me the symbol of guilt, or of the END
of guilt, remembering that what I signify to you you see within
YOURSELF?
</div>

You look at me through the lens of fear and guilt and it is hard for you
to trust me. It is hard for you to let me in. It is easier for you to
say that someone else has the talent to do it, and you don&rsquo;t. That
is the way you block me from registering with you and uncovering,
revealing your divinity to you as an experience. You block me by relying
upon your pitiful assessment of your capacity, or of me.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
From your holy relationship truth proclaims the
truth, and love looks on itself. Salvation flows from deep within the
home you offered to my Father and to me.
</div>

What home? Your heart, your soul, the quiet place in you, the altar in
the center of you, when you practice the two-step or the holy instant
and you silence your independence and you say, &ldquo;Father, Holy
Spirit, Jesus, what is the truth here?&rdquo; you&rsquo;ve made a home
for us, the obstacle to us, you have abandoned.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Salvation flows from deep within the home you
offered to my Father and to me.
</div>

When? A moment ago, ten moments ago, three hours ago when you were in
the grocery store, five hours ago when you picked up a MacDonald&rsquo;s
hamburger. You see? Every moment is a moment in which to practice the
holy instant, *to bring your curiosity*, your attention with desire to
experience the more of what God is being right there than what
you&rsquo;re used to seeing because of the definitions you&rsquo;ve been
using and valuing. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Salvation flows from deep within the home you
offered to my Father and to me.  And we are there together, in the quiet
communion in which the Father and the Son are joined.
</div>

This is the way it works. And it needs to become apparent that the
obstacles to peace are silly imaginations that truly don&rsquo;t require
your servitude, your allegiance, your commitment to.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Oh come ye faithful to the holy union of the
Father and Son in you!
</div>

The holy Son of God, the holy Daughter of God that you Are right now and
have forever been.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And keep you not apart from what is offered you,
in gratitude for giving peace its home in Heaven.
</div>

You see, when the obstacles to peace are released, change occurs,
transformation of your mind occurs as you become Sane, divinely Sane
once again. And you&rsquo;re in a new place with new gifts to make.
Spontaneous gifts that end up being made the moment you recognize
something new that you see is incontrovertible and from which you cannot
withhold your devotion to any longer&mdash;your acknowledgement of.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Send forth to all the world the joyous message
of the end of guilt, and &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; all the world will answer.
</div>

Not true, you say. &ldquo;Just look at the mess everything&rsquo;s in
and it&rsquo;s getting worse and it&rsquo;s getting scarier. It&rsquo;s
becoming more undependable. The rules of war are no longer being abided
by. And random acts of hatred that can&rsquo;t be predicted because
there aren&rsquo;t any rules of bad behavior that everybody has agreed
to follow. And this makes it really scary. And this makes it seem as
though evil is really real.&rdquo; You see?

Wait a minute &hellip; you can&rsquo;t afford to switch your attention
to a world out there and not realize that when you do that you slip back
into your best or worst definitions of everything, which you have
commitment to, and that you have forgotten that you do not have to look
at everything through the lens of fear and guilt, which are not your
Birthright and which will vanish the moment you withdraw your attention
from your definitions about everything &ldquo;out there&rdquo; and in
the absence of them, in the gentle holy silence in the middle of you,
you say, &ldquo;Holy Spirit, what is the divine truth here?&rdquo; You
see?

As it has been said, &ldquo;You can never solve a problem from the level
of the problem.&rdquo; You can never solve the effects of fear and guilt
from the realm of fear and guilt. And so you have to bring your
attention to another place. And that&rsquo;s the whole point of the holy
instant.

Where is the threshold to Awakening? You could say it&rsquo;s right in
the center of you. But I&rsquo;m going to be more specific: The
threshold of Awakening is in the Now.

Right now, if you abandon your thinking, you will be aware of where you
Are.  You will be aware of the circumstances &hellip; the trees, the
roads, the homes, the furnishings, the people you&rsquo;re with. When
you are not preoccupied with your best thinking, which takes you to the
past or the future, and you silence it, in the silence your attention
will be in the Now. The threshold to Awakening is in the Now. It
isn&rsquo;t out there in anyone else&rsquo;s behavior.

The transformation of the world begins with your withdrawal from your
great valuing of your independent self, and the gathering together of
power that you utilize through the use of your body as a means of
securing your reality as something you could never be. When you abandon
that, the way you see the world will change. When the way you see the
world changes, when the way you see your brothers and sisters is a true
approximation of what they divinely Are, there will come from you a
grateful joyous recognition, an acknowledgement of it.  And this will
transform.

It&rsquo;s not better rules of war and it&rsquo;s not the forceful
coercive manipulation of those who don&rsquo;t want to follow the rules
but want to do that which is evil.  You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Think of your happiness as everyone offers you
witness of the end of sin, &hellip;
</div>

Think of your happiness&mdash;think of the happiness you will
experience&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; as everyone offers you witness of the
end of sin, and shows you that its power is gone forever.
</div>

&ldquo;Oh, I know, [chuckling] that&rsquo;s really far-fetched
isn&rsquo;t it? You&rsquo;re going to tell me that the members of ISIS
are going to witness to the ends of sin because I have chosen to humble
myself and abandon a different level of willfulness than they&rsquo;re
bringing into play. Really? You expect me to believe that?&rdquo;

Yes, it&rsquo;s the truth. You will see everything falsely as long as
you maintain an independent willful commitment to seeing things the way
you have decided to define them or the way everyone else has decided
that you should define them.  It&rsquo;s that simple and the release is
that simple.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Where can guilt be, when the belief in sin is
gone?
</div>

&ldquo;I know, they&rsquo;re not going to release their belief in
sin!&rdquo; Well, there you go again&mdash;you jumped the rails! You
abandoned the relinquishment of your very own divorce from the Father by
insisting upon not engaging in the holy instant, because what good will
it do. It&rsquo;s the only way Home, because you never left Home and you
never became a sinner among sinners, and the way you&rsquo;re seeing
everyone right now is not dependable, because you&rsquo;re not seeing
them joined with the Holy Spirit, or me or the Father and therefore you
are Pinocchio still trying to get your own independence.

And here&rsquo;s the big one:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And where is death, when its great advocate is
heard no more?
</div>

Fear and guilt and a willful expression of them, are the advocates not
only for death but for sin, disease and death. But where is death, where
is sin, where is disease when their great advocate is heard no more?
Heard from where? Your own preoccupation with your tininess and your
vulnerability and your innate capacity that you believe you have to
secure your invulnerability as an unhooked puppet. But you can never
become unjoined with that Life force, that Mind Intelligence that is
forming you and forming you, now &hellip; now &hellip; now &hellip; now
in absolute unchanging perfection.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Forgive me your illusions, and release me from
punishment for what I have not done.
</div>

In other words, stop blocking me. Stop putting up obstacles that keep
you from hearing me. Stop blocking the Holy Spirit. Stop putting up the
obstacles of personal self-willfulness.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Forgive [us] your illusions, and release [us]
from punishment for what [we] have not done.
</div>

And really what it means is: release yourself from your own imaginations
which are incapable of disclosing to you your fulfillment, your
divinity, and the Kingdom of Heaven that is constantly being distorted
by the presence of fear and guilt, which will not disappear until you
abandon them and join with us.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Forgive me your illusions, and release me from
punishment for what I have not done. So will you learn the freedom that
I taught by teaching freedom to each other, and so releasing me.
</div>

Paul is releasing me right now. He is not withholding me. He&rsquo;s not
saying, &ldquo;At this time it&rsquo;s more important for me to be
distressed by what my fear and guilt is confronting me with.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I am within your holy relationship, &hellip;
</div>

Your holy relationship. Paul&rsquo;s holy relationship with you, your
holy relationship with Paul.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I am within your holy relationship, yet you
would imprison me behind the obstacles you raise to freedom, and bar my
way to you. Yet it is not possible to keep away One Who is there
already.
</div>

The Holy Spirit is with you already. It is You already in your infinite
wholeness. I am with you already. The Father is with you already.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And in Him it IS possible that our communion,
where we are joined already, will be &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the focus of the new perception that
will bring light to all the world, contained in YOU.
</div>

You are the Presence of the Father in Expression. You are the Presence
of the Father in Expression. As with the Father, all there is for you to
experience is the Movement of divine Mind. And all there is for you to
do with It, is to recognize It and acknowledge It as the Presence of God
Being all there is to everything, including you. And therefore, the
clear undistorted experience of Reality lies in you like a bright light
that you will recognize the brightness of when you will open your eyes
up and stop providing an obstruction to the experience of it.

Now let&rsquo;s remember what are the obstacles to? Peace. What was in
the beginning? Peace. What is to become clear again? Peace. Because in
Peace is where God&rsquo;s laws reign supreme, where omnipotence,
omnipresence and all that Reality truly is, is experienced.

I&rsquo;m going to read this last sentence again, so it&rsquo;s fresh in
your mind:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And in Him it IS possible that our communion,
where we are joined already, will be the focus of the new perception
that will bring light to all the world, contained in YOU.
</div>

You holy Son of God, you holy Daughter of God whom I love dearly,
eternally. I look forward to being with you next time.

[^1]: T19.6 Obstacles to Peace; Belief the Body is Valuable&hellip;

