---
title: May 3, 2015
ref: "T19.7 Pleasure and Pain"
alink: "/acim/text/19/chap1907/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

Things are getting simpler and simpler. There are fewer and fewer
choices that seem to be available. And the choices that are available
are stark and easy to recognize even if everyone is not enthusiastic
about accepting their meaning and making a new choice.

You are&mdash;every single one of you&mdash;holy Sons and Daughters of
God right now. That is an eternal fact. It is a governing fact.
Accepting that is one of the choices you have. And at this point,
it&rsquo;s becoming clear to everyone that there&rsquo;s only one other
choice you can seem to make, and that is to deny what I just described
you as and to see yourself as what? A body. A body that was born of
other bodies as part of an evolution of physicality&mdash;of physical
form and physical laws.

That seems to everyone to be obvious. The obvious actual
choice&mdash;the reality. Wow &hellip; but it&rsquo;s time for a new
perspective. It&rsquo;s time for a corrected perspective.

Any moment you take to just become still and be the presence of
attention, you will find that you are able to first of all, imagine and
then to actually begin to experience the fact that you are Awareness.
You are not a body sitting or standing there, being aware, but you are
Awareness in which the experience of body and world and universe is
going on. We have discussed this before.

Now, the holy instant is a practice of making a shift from body
identification to mind identification. And these are the only two
choices you have available to you. They are the only two choices
you&rsquo;ve ever had available to you.

Now, when you join with the Holy Spirit, when you join in the holy
instant as conscious awareness with That which is nothing more than your
right Mind, which you have been calling the Holy Spirit, you are
shifting from body identification to Mind identification. And I&rsquo;m
going to read part of the last sentence we read last week:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[And] in [the Holy Spirit] it IS possible &hellip;[^1]
</div>

and only there is it possible &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
that our communion &hellip;
</div>

mine, the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s, the Father&rsquo;s with you

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; it IS possible that our communion, where we are joined already,
will be the focus of the new perception that will bring light to all the
world, contained in YOU.
</div>

Of course, in you as that Mind, that conscious Awareness which is the
Presence of Mind that is God in which all of Creation is embraced and is
available for you to experience as what it truly Is, It is shifting from
body identification back to Mind identification, which is joining with
the Father and claiming no other perception.

That is where translation, transformation, Awakening occurs. And
suddenly everything that you have been experiencing and everything that
you temporarily were not experiencing will become available to you once
again. You will see everything including everything you&rsquo;re already
experiencing in the light of what it divinely really is.

And I will tell you, that in that experience, there is no sin, disease
or death. There is no fear or guilt. Because those five things
exist&mdash;or seem to exist&mdash;only when body identification is
being employed.

We&rsquo;re reading about the Obstacles to Peace. And we&rsquo;re
reading about the second obstacle which is entitled, The Belief the Body
is Valuable for What it Offers. Now, man &hellip; if that isn&rsquo;t
body identification, I don&rsquo;t know what it is. You holy Sons and
Daughters of God who are not bodies, but who are not body-less.

Now this new sub-heading entitled PLEASURE AND PAIN in some of the
editions and which is called the ATTRACTION OF PAIN in others. And
before I continue with the text of it, I will comment that the
ATTRACTION OF PAIN might seem to be the more appropriate sub-heading
because of the fact that pain seems to grab your attention. But
actually, it isn&rsquo;t that pain grabs your attention, it&rsquo;s that
you reach for pain. And you have what you&rsquo;ve reached for.

When you said, &ldquo;Father, I would rather determine what everything
is for myself&rdquo; you chose an act of independence&mdash;a state of
independence which doesn&rsquo;t exist except in your imagination. And
as we&rsquo;ve discussed, when that separation imaginatively but not
actually occurred, you were immediately met with pain, with fear and
guilt. They go hand in hand.

Now, pain is not the only thing you&rsquo;re attracted to when
you&rsquo;re identifying as a body. Pleasure, you&rsquo;re also
attracted to when you are identifying with and as a body. And so the
subject is truly is more appropriate&mdash;PLEASURE AND
PAIN&mdash;because pleasure and pain looked for in the wrong place, are
both illusory, are both attractive, and the ego fights for both of them
equally. And as is obvious, whoever opposites you are fighting for
equally, are going to cause an experience of conflict&mdash;an
undesirable state which one must endeavor to get out of, or improve. You
see?

Now, going into the Text here:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your little part &hellip;
</div>

Your little part in joining with the Holy Spirit, with me and with the
Father which brings into focus the new perception &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; Your little part is but to give the Holy Spirit the whole IDEA
of sacrifice &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; of lack, of not being equal to, of always being at a
disadvantage, of always having an undercurrent of fear and an
undercurrent of guilt which you can&rsquo;t quite identify but which
becomes obvious as you, let&rsquo; say, understand the dynamics of
illusion better. You discover that the guilt is there because you know
that you have denied the Father, you have denied your i-d-e-n-t-i-t-y,
your Source. And there is always this undercurrent of guilt. Important
to understand.

And so &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your little part &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in the transition &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is but to give the Holy Spirit the whole IDEA of sacrifice.
</div>

Another way of putting that, now, you can see, is to give up
identification with the body and being willing to shift to
identification with and as Mind&mdash;that conscious awareness in which
all conscious experience is occurring.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your little part is but to give the Holy Spirit the whole IDEA of
sacrifice. And to accept the peace He gave instead, without the limits
which would hold its extension back&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what&rsquo;s that mean?


<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the limits which would hold its extension back&hellip;
</div>

The limits are the obstacles you place in the extension of what the Holy
Spirit reveals to you, which you are totally unconscious of when you are
dedicated to identifying with and as a body.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your little part is but to give the Holy Spirit the whole IDEA of
sacrifice. And &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in it&rsquo;s place &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; to accept the peace He gave instead, without the limits which
would hold its extension back, and so would limit YOUR awareness of it.
</div>

You see? If you do not extend what the Holy Spirit reveals to you to
your Brother, you limit your awareness of it. You actually deny your
awareness of it. You see? It&rsquo;s binding, you might say&mdash;one
doesn&rsquo;t come without the other. In your willingness to extend what
the Holy Spirit reveals to you because you&rsquo;ve asked,
&ldquo;What&rsquo;s the truth here?&rdquo; If you extend that to your
Brother because you love your Brother and because your Brother deserves
nothing less than that, you give that to yourself as well. And it
confirms both you and your Brother or Sister as the Sons or Daughters of
God that you actually are. And that is how the sudden shift of
perception occurs that is called, &ldquo;a miracle.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For what He gives must be extended, if you would have its limitless
power&hellip;
</div>

You cannot have what you do not give. You see? You see how simple
it&rsquo;s becoming? &hellip; you might say, how choiceless it&rsquo;s
becoming?

Now everyone can ignore this and continue to experience sin, sickness
and death&mdash;the result of introducing obstacles to your peace by
introducing obstacles to your union, your communion with me, with the
Holy Spirit, with the Father. You see? It&rsquo;s utterly simple.
It&rsquo;s utterly, difficultly simple if you bring resistance to it.
But it is that simple.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; what He gives must be extended&hellip;

[repeats] what He gives must be extended, if you would have its
limitless power, and &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what? &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; use it for the Son of God's release.
</div>

You can&rsquo;t just accept it and embrace it for yourself. You
can&rsquo;t have it if you don&rsquo;t extend it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is not this you would be rid of, and having it you CANNOT limit it.
</div>

In other words, it is not this you would truly be rid of. You
don&rsquo;t want to be rid of that which illuminates your holiness and
your Brother&rsquo;s holiness &hellip; and the experience of what that
means.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is not this you would be rid of, and having it you CANNOT limit it.
</div>

You see? The minute you dare to extend to your Brother the illumination
that the Holy Spirit provides to you, you also have what you&rsquo;ve
given and there is no limit to it. It is an experience of infiniteness,
of absolute wholeness, of integrity, of invulnerability as we discussed
last time, which is an experience of omnipotence that doesn&rsquo;t have
to be exercised because there is nothing unlike it to exercise it upon.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Now: If peace is homeless&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; if peace isn&rsquo;t finding a residence in you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If peace is homeless, so are you and so am I. And He Who is our home is
homeless WITH us.
</div>

Either all is God Being All, or all is not God being all. It&rsquo;s
always a unity. So, only one of them is actual and it&rsquo;s your
Birthright to be experiencing it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Is this your will?
</div>

Is it your will to be homeless and for me to be homeless, and for the
Father to be homeless?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Is this your will? Would you forever be a wanderer in search of peace?
</div>

A wanderer &hellip; you know about wandering in the wilderness. Well,
when you identify as body and have divorced yourself from the experience
of being Mind in which everything is going on, you are in the wilderness
of fear and guilt. It&rsquo;s that simple. And you move through this
desert which you call &ldquo;life today&rdquo; struggling, doing your
best, sometimes over insurmountable odds it would seem, where there is
no support for your doing your best. It&rsquo;s a struggle &hellip;
it&rsquo;s work &hellip; it&rsquo;s the experience of sacrifice.

But the holy instant is when you give to the Holy Spirit the whole idea
of sacrifice. In other words, you abandon identification with the body
which is the arena&mdash;the desert&mdash;in which your Birthright is
withheld from you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Would you forever be a wanderer in search of peace?
</div>

If not, then you must start today to dishonor everything you think
everything is&mdash;all that you think everything is&mdash;and be
curious to see &ldquo;the More of what God is Being&rdquo; right there
in what you&rsquo;re seeing. And that requires an attitude of
Mind&mdash;a desire in Mind, and a commitment in Mind. It constitutes a
shift of your operating base, we could say. And when you make that
shift, the result will be that everything that looks so
horrible&mdash;the wilderness of sin sickness and death&mdash;will
transform so that it becomes obviously, the Kingdom of Heaven.

But it requires, beginning NOW, to consciously choose between body
identification and Mind identification.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Would you forever be a wanderer in search of peace? Would you invest
your hope of peace and happiness in what MUST fail?
</div>

You do invest your hope of peace in your body, in your partner, in your
home, in your job, in the environment&mdash;the physical environment you
live in. You invest your hope of peace outside of your mind so that you
can bring it into your experience and then, because of that, have peace
of mind.

But remember, the obstacle of peace is the belief that your body in its
own right, is what you are and it has value&mdash;value to you. Value to
any hope for decency and well-being that you might have.

It&rsquo;s a struggle. It&rsquo;s not your Birthright. Don&rsquo;t be
afraid to acknowledge it as a struggle and don&rsquo;t be afraid to
acknowledge that the way out of the struggle is to struggle more.

Dare to be radical enough to consciously throughout your days, try to
remember that you are the presence of Mind in which all of the
experiences, all of the things that you are experiencing is going on and
they are the manifestation of the Movement of God, called Creation
&hellip; not as you&rsquo;re seeing them, but as you will see them when
you abandon identification with the body and valuing it for the
salvation it can bring you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Would you invest your hope of peace and happiness in what MUST fail?
</div>

Body identification? Not really. Not that in you which is divine. Not
that in you which Knows that what you&rsquo;re experiencing right now is
not right, is not your Birthright. No.

Now here&rsquo;s the thing: When you identify with body, then the next
sentence is nonsense&mdash;impossible to embrace.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Faith in the eternal is always justified&hellip;
</div>

&ldquo;Oh no!&rdquo; your ego says, &ldquo;Faith in the temporal is the
only thing that is justified.&rdquo; Faith in fear and trouble and
dissonance and working through problems&mdash;this is justified and
there is incredible faith in it. But &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Faith in the eternal is always justified, for the eternal is forever
kind, infinite in its patience, and wholly loving. It will accept you
wholly, and give you peace.
</div>

But it won&rsquo;t give you peace if peace isn&rsquo;t your goal and if
you&rsquo;re not looking for peace in the right place. Fortunately,
there are only two places that you seem to have to be able to choose
between. And one is, your Birthright&mdash;to be the divine and holy Son
or Daughter of God that you are and never have stopped Being and to give
your attention to the Father Who supplies you with the true perception
of Creation when you are not holding yourself apart from Him, and when
you are not using your mind to provide obstacles to that experience.

The eternal &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; will accept you wholly, and give you peace. Yet it can unite
only with what ALREADY is at peace in you, immortal as itself.
</div>

You know what? The &ldquo;hooker&rdquo; is, that you are so bound to
your allegiance to body identification and significance, or I&rsquo;m
going to say, apparent significance of fear and guilt, that you cannot
find justification&mdash;willingness to become silent and reach for
peace beyond circumstances, the peace that is inherent in your very
presence of Mind.

The eternal &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; can unite only with what ALREADY is at peace in you, immortal
as itself.
</div>

Now that&rsquo;s the absolute fact. And if you want to experience that
which awaits your experience absolutely, you have to be willing to
abandon the urgency with which you think you have to honor fear and
guilt!

The fear and guilt are distortions which were introduced into your
conscious experience of Being when you chose to be conscious without
being joined to your Source and as a result, losing your experience of
unity and harmony and love truly with your Brothers and Sisters.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The body can bring you neither peace nor turmoil; &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the body gets a bad rap. And I will say, it gets an especially
bad rap from students of A Course in Miracles, when students of A Course
in Miracles should be moving beyond the traditional negative
interpretation of the body. The Course presents the fact that &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
 &hellip; the body can bring you neither peace nor turmoil.
</div>

Therefore, it cannot be blamed for anything. It does not have to be
gotten rid of. It has to be recognized for what it is and, shall I say,
be used and used appropriately.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The body can bring you neither peace nor turmoil; neither pain nor joy.
</div>

But everyone believes it can, and looks for those things there. You
don&rsquo;t have to continue doing it!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the body &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is a means, and not an end. It has NO purpose of itself,
</div>

No. Is it saying here that it doesn&rsquo;t exist? That it&rsquo;s an
illusion? No. It simply &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; has no purpose of itself, but only what is given to it.
</div>

Ah, by awareness. But is it Awareness Guided and inspired by the Father?
Or is it awareness guided and inspired by a misperception of existence
as being of that of a body?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The body will seem to be whatever is the means for reaching the goal
that you assign to it.
</div>

Is the goal joy and peace? Is the goal dominance? Is the goal strength
and power? Is the goal to be a force for good? To be a force for good is
as bad as being a force for bad. Because force doesn&rsquo;t come into
play at all when one is joined with the Holy Spirit and the
Father&rsquo;s Perspective.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Peace and guilt are both conditions of the mind, to be attained.
</div>

You hear that?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Peace and guilt are both conditions of the mind, to be attained.
</div>

Here are your only two choices. Are you going to choose for the
condition of peace or for the condition of guilt? You see how
unyieldingly simple this is, even though it&rsquo;s very demanding
because of the habit of mis-identifying one&rsquo;s Self and Creation.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Peace and guilt are both conditions of the mind, to be attained. And
these conditions are the home of the emotion which called them forth,
and therefore is compatible with them.
</div>

(chuckles) There&rsquo;s wonderful logic for you. Are you going to pay
attention to it? Is it reasonable? No. That&rsquo;s why the question
that follows &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
But think you which it is that is compatible with YOU.
</div>

Is identifying as a body compatible with the holy Son or Daughter of God
that you are? Is it? No. It is not compatible! So you must abandon it as
a goal. You see?

&ldquo;Well, if I have any imagination of what that&rsquo;s going to
mean, it&rsquo;s going to mean radical change. It&rsquo;s going to be
more than I can bear. I am reluctant!&rdquo;

Oh, there we go&mdash;there&rsquo;s the obstacle forming. But
that&rsquo;s because you&rsquo;re looking at the goal from body
identification.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Here is your choice, and it IS free. But all that lies in it WILL come
with it, and what you think you are can never be apart from it.
</div>

Uh-oh, that&rsquo;s going to mean that you&rsquo;re going to find
yourself changed. Well, who will you be? What will you be like? Will you
be safe? Will you be strong? Will you be capable? Will people recognize
your integrity? All this is body-oriented wilderness thinking.

Listen again because this is good news:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Here is your choice, and it IS free. But all that lies in it WILL come
with it&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; it won&rsquo;t be a partial gift. It won&rsquo;t be a little
bit now and then monthly installments.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; all that lies in it WILL come with it, and what you think you
are can never be apart from it. The body &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and I&rsquo;ll say, body identification &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The body is the great seeming betrayer of faith.
</div>

Identification with the body and the emotions that accompany
it&mdash;fear, guilt, the experience of sin, sickness and
death&mdash;they block faith. They undo faith. They invalidate faith, at
least to those who have placed their faith in the illusion of being a
body.

But it&rsquo;s not true. And it doesn&rsquo;t require the denial or the
rising above a body to get out of it, it only requires a shift of
attention from identifying with the body and placing your attention in
your mind and recognizing that as consciousness, you are experiencing
body and trees and birds, etc.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The body &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; or body identification &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is the great seeming &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; seeming &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; betrayer of faith.
</div>

It&rsquo;s not the betrayer of faith and therefore, the idea of being
the betrayer of faith cannot be used to discount it or minimize it, or
suggest that it must be risen above and gotten rid of.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The body is the great seeming betrayer of faith.
</div>

Why? Because it&rsquo;s not the body. It&rsquo;s what you&rsquo;re using
your mind for, to identify as body, ignoring the fact that what is
seeing and defining what the body is&mdash;is Mind. And that which made
the definition never left the place of being Mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In it &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the body &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; lies disillusionment &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in the body orientation, the body mindset, the body
identification, disillusionment &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; lies disillusionment &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; of course &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and the seeds of faithlessness&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; but here you go &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; but only if you ask of it what it cannot give.
</div>

So, you&rsquo;re going to move toward having the body disappear because
you asked of it something it couldn&rsquo;t give and you&rsquo;ve had a
disappointing experience? (chuckles) Disappointing in the sense that
you&rsquo;ve experienced fear and guilt and pain and sin, disease and
death!

Don&rsquo;t get rid of the body because you asked it to do something it
couldn&rsquo;t do and it provided you with a terminal life perception.

Write that down on a piece of paper&mdash;a stick-it note&mdash;and put
it on your refrigerator or on the wall in front of your toilet, some
place where you can be reminded of it. That fact needs to become more
familiar to everyone.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Can your mistake be reasonable grounds for depression and
disillusionment, and for retaliative attack on what you think has failed
you?
</div>

You see? You&rsquo;re going to retaliate against the body because you
think it failed you because you made a mistake? And are you going to use
the results of your mistake to feel depressed and justify it&mdash;and
to feel it so emotionally that it&rsquo;s impossible for you to conceive
or consider that the Eternal is kind and patient and loving? You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Use not your error as the justification for your faithlessness.
</div>

Now this is important. Because anybody who has existed in the realm of
body-identification, knows that if one has made an error, one is guilty.
And there is a penalty for the error, one way or another. And
conversely, if you&rsquo;ve done something right, and it has virtue, you
will benefit from it.

Both of those are a trap.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Use not your error as the justification for your faithlessness. You have
not sinned, but you have been mistaken in what is faithful.
</div>

Two words there: Sinned and mistaken. To have made a mistake is not to
have sinned. To have made a mistake is not to make you guilty. To have
made a mistake cannot be the cause for fear. To have made a mistake
cannot be the justification for suicide. To have made a mistake is not
justification to try to get rid of the body or to try to get rid of your
Brother. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have not sinned, but you have been mistaken &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; two entirely different things &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; in what is faithful. And &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; here you go &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the correction of your mistake will GIVE you grounds for faith.
</div>

Another, you might say, rule. Write it down.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the correction of your mistake &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the correction, not the acceptance of punishment for having
made a mistake, not walking around in great guilt and fear because
you&rsquo;ve made a mistake, but simply doing it&mdash;correcting
it&mdash;will give you grounds for faith. And what&rsquo;s the
correction?

Once again, none of this is complicated. They&rsquo;re really only two
choices in any of this at any level. The correction is to shift from
your confidence that you&rsquo;re nothing more than a physical body
thinking with electrical impulses and synapses in a hunk of meat in your
head. Recognizing that consciousness or Mind is something entirely
different from electrical impulses in which something is going on which
is being called electrical impulses. You see? Consciousness &hellip;
Mind is that in which everything is going on as a conscious,
identifiable, experience-able experience.

So again, the correction of your mistake, shifting back to Mind
identification through the practice of the holy instant will give you
grounds for faith. Your faith will be revived, you might say, it will be
illuminated in you because it never left you except for the fact that
you brought obstacles to its experience by virtue of your faith in and
devotion to your belief that you are a body.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is impossible to seek for pleasure through the body and NOT find
pain.
</div>

Well that does not mean again, &ldquo;Man, you gotta get out of this
mortal experience and the experience of a body if you&rsquo;re not going
to be able to find anything but pain.&rdquo; No.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is impossible to seek for pleasure through the body and NOT find
pain.
</div>

Because you&rsquo;re trying to get something from the body that it
cannot give. You&rsquo;re looking in the wrong place with a wrong sense
of yourself&mdash;an independent isolated sense of self separated from
its divine Source. It&rsquo;s inevitable, if you seek pleasure through
the realm of body identification, you will find pain. If you look to
anything&mdash;a tree or a car or another body, if you seek for pleasure
in a big house, or a tennis court or a swimming pool, you will not be
able to do it without finding pain because pleasure is not in the
things, it&rsquo;s in the mind through which the things are being
experienced when that mind is joined with its holiness, not its
mortality&mdash;with its Eternality by virtue of not bringing obstacles
to that experience.

Again:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is impossible to seek for pleasure through the body and NOT find
pain. It is essential that this relationship be understood, for it is
one the ego sees as PROOF of sin. It is not really punitive at all.
</div>

The pain you experience when you&rsquo;re looking for it in the wrong
place, is not a punishment. It&rsquo;s not a reaction to your stupidity
or any other pejorative term you might apply to yourself. It is not a
punishment and it is not punitive.

If you put your hand under a faucet with hot water, it will be
uncomfortable, not because you were stupid, but because hot water and
your finger don&rsquo;t belong together. And you learn not to do that
again. It&rsquo;s inevitable if you try to do what doesn&rsquo;t
work&mdash;it won&rsquo;t work, it won&rsquo;t be comfortable! And
that&rsquo;s your salvation because it clearly says, &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t
do that again!&rdquo; That&rsquo;s all. It brings about a call for
correction &hellip; not a call for guilt or depression or thoughts of
suicide or emotional responses. It&rsquo;s like, &ldquo;Oh, well,
won&rsquo;t do that again.&rdquo; Truly.

Again:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is not really punitive at all &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the pain that you experience.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is but the inevitable result &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; of what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
 &hellip; of equating yourself with the body, which is the INVITATION to
 pain.
</div>

When you abandon your experience of being consciousness&mdash;Mind, the
Presence of the Mind of God that God is expressing as you&mdash;when you
abandon that, and then identify with what is left, you&rsquo;re inviting
the two things that come into play which you didn&rsquo;t know were
there awaiting you: Fear and guilt, and the pain that results from the
two. You see?

Denying yourself invites an experience of divine Sanity which says:
Don&rsquo;t go any further in this direction because what will follow
will be illusory and will make it difficult for you to come back into
your right Mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[Pain] is the inevitable result of equating yourself with the body,
which is the INVITATION to pain. For it invites fear to enter, and
become your purpose. The attraction of guilt MUST enter with it&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; right? The two things, when you abandon your
identity&mdash;your Source&mdash;the two things that come into play are
fear and guilt.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The attraction of guilt MUST enter with it, and whatever fear directs
the body to do is therefore painful. It will share the pain of ALL
illusions, and the illusion of pleasure will be the SAME as pain. Is not
this inevitable?
</div>

Is it becoming clear? It just is simply inevitable.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Under fear's orders, the body will pursue guilt&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what does that mean? It will attach itself to the feeling of
guilt and it will let the feeling of guilt become the motivating factor
for the actions that will follow.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Under fear's orders, the body will pursue guilt, serving its master
whose attraction to guilt maintains the whole illusion of its existence.

[repeats] the attraction to guilt maintains the whole illusion of its
existence.
</div>

Because the attraction is so compelling that you become seemingly unable
to let go of it and choose once again for your peace with a faith in the
Eternal.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
 This, then, IS the attraction of pain.
</div>

You see? But the point is, you don&rsquo;t have to be governed by it.
You don&rsquo;t have to respond to it.

You know what you can do? You can ask, &ldquo;Father, are you giving me
this message of fear?&rdquo; &ldquo;Holy Spirit, are you giving me this
message of guilt?&rdquo; &ldquo;Jesus, is what I&rsquo;m perceiving
true? Should I value it and validate it?&rdquo;

At least if you will do that you will break the flow and allow a point
of interruption in it so that you can shift your attention, and realize
that you do not have to follow willy-nilly, the destructive, I will say,
depressing movement that is involved.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Ruled by this perception, the body becomes the servant of pain, seeking
it dutifully, and obeying the idea that pain is pleasure.
</div>

&ldquo;Well, I must be learning something from this. You know, it must
be having some beneficial effect.&rdquo; Don&rsquo;t become confused.
The Holy Spirit can turn every situation to your advantage not because
every situation is advantageous but because It knows how to undo the
validation you give to circumstances that are invalid and not real.

No negative experience you are having is in itself
advantageous&mdash;although you will learn. Is that clear? You
don&rsquo;t want to validate or provide justification for suffering by
saying, &ldquo;It must be doing some good for me.&rdquo;

CRAP! BULLSHIT! Be firm with it. Denounce it absolutely! Do not be kind
with it or about it. Recognize it for what it is&mdash;it&rsquo;s
trickery!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Ruled by this perception, the body becomes the servant of pain, seeking
it dutifully, and obeying the idea that pain is pleasure. It is this
idea that underlies all of the ego's heavy investment in the body. And
it is this insane relationship which it keeps hidden, and yet feeds
upon. To YOU it teaches that the body's pleasure is happiness.
</div>

And I&rsquo;m going to add: One way or another.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet to ITSELF it whispers, "It is death."
</div>

It&rsquo;s time to simply make the choice between the arena in which
sin, sickness, death, fear, guilt and pain seem to be occurring and are
illusory, and choosing for the holy instant. Choosing for identification
with Mind as pure conscious Awareness and holding to that with devotion
and commitment. Because if you do that, clarity will follow. Faith in
the Eternal will show up, will register with you.

Now, I&rsquo;m going to end there for tonight. I&rsquo;m encouraging
everyone to become more black and white in their appraisal. Let there be
fewer choices and let the fact that there are only two choices confront
you with which choice you need to be making, so that you will make it
instead of delaying because you have &ldquo;so many options&rdquo; and
&ldquo;you have so many opportunities as a body to make progress and do
wonderful things&rdquo; while never experiencing the peace of your Being
and the peace in which the Eternal is the center and circumference of
you.

I love you very much because of what you Are. And I&rsquo;m not fooled
for a moment by the fact that you think you&rsquo;re a
body&mdash;something that came from a sperm and an egg. Something was
happening, but it was the Movement of Creation as Mind and all that was
identifiable. All that ever is ever identifiable is the visibility and
tangibility of Mind Moving and recognizing Itself in the
Movement&mdash;a singular integrity of perfection that becomes your
experience when you make a single choice and start doing it today.

I look forward to being with you next time.

[^1]: T19.7 Pleasure and Pain

