---
title: May 17, 2015
ref: T19.8 Obstacles to Peace; The Attraction of Death
alink: "/acim/text/19/chap1908/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

We are reading about the Obstacles to Peace. And as I mentioned last
week, with all of the specific details that are covered, it may sound
like the subject is everything other than peace. But the fact is, all of
these relate to peace as being the primary state of Being through which
and in which one Awakens&mdash;through which and in which the miracle
occurs.

Now, as you will remember, the first obstacle was The Desire to Get Rid
of It&mdash;meaning peace. The second obstacle was The Belief the Body
is Valuable for What It Offers. And tonight we&rsquo;re beginning with
the third obstacle:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*The Attraction of Death*[^1]
</div>

Now, there are four obstacles and they are presented in the order in
which they are most easily undone. And that&rsquo;s the point!
That&rsquo;s the reason for considering each of them&mdash;not so that
you might be impressed with how horrible and insurmountable the
obstacles are, but rather, that they are to be undone and how to undo
them so that &hellip; what? Peace returns as the foundation and the
superstructure of your conscious experience of Being.

Now I&rsquo;m going to back up to the beginning of the last paragraph we
read last week. It begins:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is not given to the ego&rsquo;s disciples to realize that they have
dedicated THEMSELVES to death.
</div>

Wow &hellip; it continues:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Freedom is offered them, but they have not accepted it, and what is
offered must also be received, to be truly given. For the Holy Spirit,
too, is a communication medium, receiving from the Father and offering
His messages unto the Son. Like the ego, the Holy Spirit is both the
sender and the receiver. For what is sent through Him RETURNS to Him,
seeking itself along the way, and finding what it seeks. So does the ego
find the death IT seeks, returning it to YOU.
</div>

Now it&rsquo;s important, when you&rsquo;re reading the Course, not to
gloss quickly over the things hard to understand, or the things you
don&rsquo;t really want to consider, and get on to the more positive
things.

And so, when this paragraph starts out by saying &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is not given to the ego&rsquo;s disciples to realize that they have
dedicated THEMSELVES to death&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; it&rsquo;s like, &ldquo;[Groan] &hellip; that&rsquo;s about all
the further I want to go into that!&rdquo; And then what the next
sentence says:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Freedom is offered them, but they have not accepted it&hellip;
</div>

&ldquo;Wow! Freedom has been offered! I&rsquo;m going to glom onto that.
I&rsquo;m going to reach for that. I&rsquo;m going to give my attention
to that, and I&rsquo;m going to feel better than I was feeling when I
read:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is not given to the ego&rsquo;s disciples to realize that they have
dedicated THEMSELVES to death&hellip;
</div>

&ldquo;I&rsquo;m not going to dwell on that.&rdquo;

Well, you&rsquo;re going to have to dwell on it. Because understanding
what it means is essential to your being able to do &hellip; what? Undo
it. Release it. Become unbound by it!

So, pretty heavy-handed, I would say: The ego&rsquo;s disciples &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; have dedicated THEMSELVES to death.
</div>

Well, let&rsquo;s be grounded &hellip; let&rsquo;s be practical &hellip;
let&rsquo;s be sober.

Who of you has absolute confidence that you will not die? How many of
you have confidence that you will not die?

How many of you feel, right now, that you are being, and it will be
uninterrupted by death&mdash;no variation will occur [as] it has with
almost everyone else except for the handful who have ascended or
translated?

If you know that you&rsquo;re going to die, then you are one of the
ego&rsquo;s disciples who is dedicated to death!

What&rsquo;s the saying? &ldquo;The only sure thing is death and
taxes.&rdquo;

So, you know what? You&rsquo;re already disciples of the ego. And you
are already dedicated to death because you&rsquo;re absolutely sure that
it&rsquo;s going to happen to you. Of course, there will be another
lifetime where you will return to Heaven and your life will not have
ended. And so, therefore, you don&rsquo;t mind being absolutely sure
that you&rsquo;re going to die out of this experience.

Man, that&rsquo;s dedication! That&rsquo;s commitment! You are bound
with a certainty&mdash;the certainty of your inner decision about it. So
you&rsquo;re already in it. And you have just found a way to describe it
so that it&rsquo;s not as distressing as it might otherwise be. You see?

One way or another it&rsquo;s a certainty, and you have arrived at a
certain amount of peace about it. And that peace is false. And that
peace disallows for correction to occur. It disallows for this obstacle
to peace to be destroyed. And yet that&rsquo;s the call.

You are the holy Sons and Daughters of God, who, somewhere along the
line, decided with another to pay more attention to your own thoughts
than the Thoughts of God. And so you forgot who you were and you forgot
your function.

And now here you are living in an experience that is full of sin,
sickness and death. And you think it&rsquo;s normal. You think
it&rsquo;s the way God set it up. And, as I&rsquo;ve said, you&rsquo;ve
built a story around it&mdash;many stories around it&mdash;that make it
a more comfortable experience.

This Course is not here to make you comfortable in an illusion until the
illusion is over, because the illusion won&rsquo;t be over until you
abandon it! And you won&rsquo;t abandon it until you look squarely at it
and see how you are engaging with it. You see?

So don&rsquo;t be afraid to look soberly at it.

&ldquo;Well,&rdquo; someone says, &ldquo;how come nobody else who is
teaching the Course is saying this? How come everyone else who studies
the Course believes that death is inevitable?&rdquo; It doesn&rsquo;t
really matter. What matters is that I am teaching that it is not
inevitable and I am bringing out the ways in which the Course intends to
undo the obstacle. Why? So that you shall never see death!

&ldquo;He that believeth on me shall never see death!&rdquo;[^2]

That&rsquo;s my declaration. That&rsquo;s my promise. That&rsquo;s the
simple truth. Death is to be undone. And the Course has no different
purpose from that. If death is not inevitable, then it means that
sickness that leads to death is not inevitable. And it means that
sin&mdash;the attempt to do something that can&rsquo;t be done with
commitment&mdash;that is to be undone as well.

That means what? A lot of things. It means ever-present health. It means
no signs of aging. More than that, as you engage in the holy instant and
lean into the Father&rsquo;s Perspective by asking of the Holy Spirit,
&ldquo;What is the truth here?&rdquo; you set into motion your capacity
to see the truth. And by that I mean, in the transformation of your
awareness as it is infilled with the inspired truth that the Holy Spirit
provides, you will find what you would call physical evidence of
correction of all that wasn&rsquo;t real, all that were
misperceptions&mdash;like aging.

And so you would say you&rsquo;re experiencing
&ldquo;youthing&rdquo;&mdash;the return of better symmetry, more perfect
form in outline and color. You see?

You should be going through your day, every day, with an expectation of
eternal Life showing up in practical language of perception, now
&hellip; and not just reading the Course and glossing over the hard
parts and getting to the sweet and beautiful parts that allow you some
peace and comfort without correcting a darn thing! You see?

The word, &ldquo;correction&rdquo; means something changes. A call for
correction is a call for a change. Where? Right in the middle of your
experience. We could call it, &ldquo;the human experience.&rdquo; But
actually, it&rsquo;s right in the middle of your divine experience and
revealing, uncovering, the divinity of it more clearly to you in your
conscious awareness. This is what it&rsquo;s about!

Now, beginning in this new sub-heading (The Attraction of Death):

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To you, in whose special relationship the Holy Spirit entered&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning, when in your relationship with your fellowman, you
turned to the Holy Spirit to gather the facts instead of your memory and
your mutual agreements&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To you, in whose special relationship the Holy Spirit entered&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; because you invited Him &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; it is given to release and be released from the dedication to
death.
</div>

The holy instant genuinely and humbly practiced, is the threshold into
the conscious experience of eternal Life&mdash;yours, NOW &hellip; not
after you pass on.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For it was offered you, and you ACCEPTED.
</div>

And that&rsquo;s the key. You ACCEPTED. The moment you turn to the Holy
Spirit or the Father, or your Guide, or me, and you ask to know the
truth, the truth will be provided if your desire is humble and genuine.
And because &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; it was offered you, and you ACCEPTED [it] &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the miracle occurs. And the miracle embraces you and your
Brother or Sister always. It is never private&mdash;exclusively yours.
NEVER!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in spite of the fact that &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
it&rsquo;s been given and received, you must learn still more about this
strange devotion, for it contains the third of the obstacles which peace
must flow across.
</div>

Notice that. Peace flows across these obstacles like water. It
doesn&rsquo;t fight with them, it doesn&rsquo;t engage with them. It
floats over them.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
No-one can die unless he chooses death.
</div>

Now mind you, I know! You say you&rsquo;re not choosing death.
You&rsquo;re choosing life every day. You go around with a positive
attitude every day. You engage in good deeds every day. You engage in
helping. You&rsquo;re not choosing death. If you&rsquo;re a teenager,
if you&rsquo;re in your twenties, if you&rsquo;re in your thirties, the
feeling is that the sky is the limit and nothing holds you back.
You&rsquo;re not afraid of death.

Nevertheless, you went to your grandmother&rsquo;s funeral a few months
ago. You&rsquo;ve noticed the obituaries. You watch the news. You see
that people are dying. It isn&rsquo;t occupying your mind&mdash;you have
a very positive attitude. But nevertheless, you have embodied,
we&rsquo;ll say, the very definite belief that your life is a life span
with a beginning and an end. You believe that. You&rsquo;re just not
concerned about it yet.

Your belief in it though, is your devotion to it.

So, when it says &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
No-one can die unless he chooses death &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; it means exactly that. And here&rsquo;s the key: If you are not
choosing to engage in the holy instant, if you are not choosing to
engage in the two-step and to silence your thinking, and genuinely
desire to know the truth of Something beyond your best capacities to
think &hellip; if you&rsquo;re not doing that, you are caught. You are
devoted to death and death will happen because you&rsquo;re choosing it.

There&rsquo;s only one way to un-choose it, and that is to abandon the
independence. Abandon your &ldquo;right&rdquo; to think for yourself,
and partner once again with the Holy Spirit, with the Father, with your
Guide. Partner&mdash;consciously do everything in the awareness that
you are not alone. Partner by inquiring to know the more of what God is
Being right there in your experience, than you&rsquo;re presently
experiencing. You see? That&rsquo;s the only way to un-choose for
death.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What SEEMS to be the fear of death is really its ATTRACTION.
</div>

Not really so hard to grasp the meaning of.

You see, because you believe that life has a beginning and an end, and
you&rsquo;re devoted to that, and you&rsquo;re devoted to death, you are
simultaneously voting for it and being afraid of it. This is where a
sober look is really important.

Everyone who insists upon being an independent thinker&mdash;a body with
a brain that developed through evolutionary processes in a material
world&mdash;that entity is a concept. It is an interpretation placed
upon the holy Son or Daughter of God and given preference to What lies
underneath it.

So, you&rsquo;re put in this experience of a bind where you are
confident there will be death and you are afraid of it at the same time.
You are attracted to death because you are attracted to being in a way
that is pure illusion. You are attracted to function as an independent
physical entity which you are not. But as long as you are unwilling to
look any further than that, you will be bound to the experience of
death.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Guilt, too, is feared and fearful. Yet it could have no hold at all
except on those who are attracted to it and seek it out.
</div>

Well see, I know! Nobody seeks it out. Nobody thinks they do. But the
fact is that the moment you, as I&rsquo;ve said before, got a divorce
from your Father, two things immediately came into play that you
weren&rsquo;t expecting: fear and guilt. And so, as long as you are
seeking to be independent, you are attracted to and seek the experience
of fear and guilt.

You don&rsquo;t think of it that way because you&rsquo;re thinking about
the fun and the exhilaration and the hit you will get from being
independently intelligent, creative, and making someone out of yourself.
That&rsquo;s what you&rsquo;re thinking about&mdash;something that makes
utterly no sense at all to a holy Son or Daughter of God who
hasn&rsquo;t said, &ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;d rather do it my way.
I&rsquo;d rather see things my way.&rdquo; You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And so it is with death. Made by the ego, its dark shadow falls across
all living things, because the ego is the "enemy" of life.
</div>

God is Life. Life is what God is. Life is an Absolute. Life is unlimited
because there is nothing present to be unlike it. But when someone says,
&ldquo;I&rsquo;d rather make up the rules,&rdquo; &ldquo;I&rsquo;d
rather define what everything is,&rdquo; &ldquo;I&rsquo;d rather make up
the definition,&rdquo; then you are separating yourself from Life. You
are choosing to be different from your Source. And different means,
un-like. The only way to be un-like Life is to be that which posits and
demonstrates and manifests death. That&rsquo;s the bottom line.

It doesn&rsquo;t matter that it&rsquo;s an illusion. As long as one is
engaged in an illusory sense of self, the illusion is going to seem
quite real, and it is an unworthy experience for a holy Son or Daughter
of God. It is not the Birthright of a holy Son or Daughter of
God&mdash;You. Therefore, correction is called for: the need to see
death as an obstacle to peace, your peace&mdash;the place in you in
which miracles occur, in which Awakening occurs.

The act of independence, the cherishing of independence and the
commitment to it is a commitment against All that Truly Is.

The thinking&mdash;the mindsets engaged in that&mdash;are what the word
&ldquo;ego&rdquo; means. You are not an ego, but you can imaginatively
think that you are independent and that you can make up the meanings of
everything. And what happens is, you become a disciple of a
&ldquo;way&rdquo; of thinking&mdash;of a perspective. You see? Not an
actuality. So correction is called for. The obstacle is to be undone.

Identifying with that which is the enemy of Life is the inevitable next
step.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Death: Made by the ego, its dark shadow falls across all living
things&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; at least as far as you can see, looking through the lens of
independence that you&rsquo;re looking through&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; because the ego is the "enemy" of life.

And yet a shadow cannot kill.
</div>

In other words, that which has no substance, but just an appearance
cannot kill. It cannot do anything.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What is a shadow to the living?
</div>

What is a misperception to a holy Son or Daughter of God?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
They but walk past and it is gone. But what of those whose dedication it
is NOT to live; &hellip;
</div>

I know! Nobody has a dedication not to live. But now you know that if
you&rsquo;re operating independently, you are in the realm of what is
not real, where death is inevitable because the state of mind is devoted
to the opposite of what is Real. It&rsquo;s devoted to the opposite of
Life, Truth and Love, therefore it&rsquo;s opposing Life. It&rsquo;s
affirming and constantly confirming death.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
But what of those whose dedication it is NOT to live; the black-draped
"sinners," the ego's mournful chorus, plodding so heavily away from
life, dragging their chains and marching in the slow procession which
honors their grim master, lord of death?
</div>

Well, gee whiz, who in the hell are these individuals that this is
talking about? My goodness! Could it be you? Could it be the one who
isn&rsquo;t expecting miracles? Could it be the one who doesn&rsquo;t
think death can be avoided, or that death isn&rsquo;t even real and
therefore nothing associated with it is real either?

You all have mutual agreements and you stand together solidly.
That&rsquo;s the &ldquo;mournful chorus.&rdquo; &ldquo;Oh, Joe has this
terminal illness. He only has six months to live. Well, we can pray for
him to have maximum comfort between now and then. We can ask the Holy
Spirit to help him.&rdquo;

[Chuckling] But I&rsquo;m not hearing anybody say, &ldquo;Hey,
let&rsquo;s raise the dead,&rdquo; or &ldquo;let&rsquo;s undo the death
process, and let&rsquo;s expect to see it here and now!&rdquo;

Now that&rsquo;s the correction of the attraction to death and
that&rsquo;s the correction of death. And here and now is when to be
engaging in that correction &hellip; by what? . . abandoning your best
judgments and everyone else&rsquo;s best judgments and shutting up and
saying, &ldquo;Father,&rdquo; or &ldquo;Holy Spirit, what is the living
truth here? What is the truth that eradicates the obstacle?&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Touch any one of them &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; anyone with a &ldquo;mournful chorus&rdquo; &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; with the gentle hands of forgiveness, and watch the chains
fall away, along with yours.
</div>

That&rsquo;s always the way it works: &ldquo;what you give, you get to
keep,&rdquo; what you extend, you end up embodying. The question is:
where is the gift coming from? What&rsquo;s the source of the gift
you&rsquo;re giving &hellip; the ego or the Holy Spirit&mdash;your
deranged mind that you seem to have imaginatively created, or that which
is nothing but your right Mind, the Holy Spirit?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; watch the chains fall away, along with yours.
</div>

NOW!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
See him throw aside the black robe he was wearing to his funeral, and
hear him laugh at death.
</div>

You see? This is what the destruction of this obstacle to peace is going
to look like here and now.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The sentence sin would lay upon him he can escape through your
forgiveness.
</div>

(Whew!) Why, because you&rsquo;re special? No. But because your
forgiveness is you being willing to abandon the mutual agreement about
death and seeking for an answer beyond your best judgment and your best
education with what seems to you to be perfectly obvious. And then
extending the insight, the inspiration, the experience of truth about
him or her that infills you &hellip; you see? The undoing of the
obstacle here and now.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is no arrogance. It is the Will of God. What is impossible to you
who chose His Will as yours? What is death to you?
</div>

You see? Realization: the transformation of your conscious awareness of
life and of the infinite manifestation of God transforms the material
world. The Bible speaks of this as the scales falling from your
eyes.[^3] The scales falling from your eyes cause you to seem to see a
world that was transformed, but what it has always divinely been has
simply registered with you in your defenselessness, in the absence of
your willfulness.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
YOUR dedication &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; if you&rsquo;ve accepted the will of God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
YOUR dedication is not to death, nor to its master. When you accepted
the Holy Spirit's purpose in place of the ego's, you renounced death,
</div>

&hellip; I&rsquo;m going to bring that into the present tense:

When you [accept] the Holy Spirit's purpose in place of the ego's, you
[renounce] death.

It couldn&rsquo;t be any clearer than that. It also couldn&rsquo;t be
any more radical than that. But the Course is about
&ldquo;radical.&rdquo; The Course is about undoing the obstacles to
peace and therefore undoing those things that stand in the way of your
Awakening.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you accepted the Holy Spirit's purpose in place of the ego's, you
renounced death, exchanging it for life. We know that an idea leaves not
its source. And death is the result of the thought we call the ego, as
surely as life is the result of the Thought of God.
</div>

Wow!

A sub-heading entitled:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Incorruptible Body
</div>

Strange words if one thinks that the Course is teaching that the body is
an illusion:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Incorruptible Body

From the ego came sin and guilt and death, in opposition to life and
innocence, and to the Will of God Himself.
</div>

You see? That&rsquo;s why it&rsquo;s a dedication to death. Again,
nobody thinks of it quite that way because there is such pleasure taken
and such an ethic of being able to take credit for being independently
creative. But all the time one is engaged in independence, one is
denying who he is and what his function is.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Where can such opposition lie but in the sick minds of the insane,
dedicated to madness and set against the peace of Heaven.
</div>

Again, rather strong language, because that&rsquo;s the last thing you
would describe yourself as. You wouldn&rsquo;t use those words relative
to you. But if you don&rsquo;t realize that you have adopted a way of
interpreting Creation and Life that is inconsistent with what It truly
divinely is, then you are indulging in a mind that is sick, insane,
dedicated to madness and set against the Peace of Heaven.

Don&rsquo;t shy away from that, because the clarity of it makes it
possible for you to, with absolute clarity, choose differently, knowing
why you are choosing differently.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
One thing is sure; God, Who created neither sin nor death, wills not
that you be bound by them. He knows of neither sin nor its results.
</div>

[Chuckling] Those have all been manufactured by a creative, disturbed,
disconnected mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The shrouded figures in the funeral procession march not in honor of
their Creator&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning God &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; Whose Will it is they live. They are not following It; they are
OPPOSING It.

And what is the black-draped body they would bury? A body which THEY
dedicated to death, a symbol of corruption, a sacrifice to sin, offered
to sin to feed upon and keep itself alive; a thing condemned, damned by
its maker, and lamented by every mourner who looks upon it as himself.
</div>

[Sighs] You know what? It&rsquo;s simple. If you are choosing not to
look at everything through the Father&rsquo;s eyes, by letting that Mind
be in you which was also in Christ Jesus[^4]&mdash;which was the
Father&rsquo;s Mind&mdash;then there is nothing positive that can be
said about it. And these words which I just read:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; a thing condemned, damned by its maker&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; blah, blah, blah &hellip;

&hellip; those are not too strong, and that&rsquo;s not the entire list.
But understand that there is no way for there to be any positive
adjective applied&mdash;not until you are willing to engage in the
two-step, the holy instant, and abandon your confidence in your best
private thinking and rejoin with your Source.

You know, you can listen to this and you can dare to say, &ldquo;Wow, I
must be all screwed up! But, I do see that if I exist at all, I have to
be the manifestation of a Source&mdash;an infinite Source, one that is
not flawed. And I&rsquo;m willing to abandon my confidence in all of
what must be my screwed up thinking. I&rsquo;m willing to abandon it and
reach beyond it because, as a matter of fact, I do agree that everyone
is going to die and that means me too. And if for some strange reason,
death is an obstacle to peace that is to be undone, then I&rsquo;m going
to not get excited and upset and depressed because I&rsquo;m so
confused. And I am going to more consistently engage in the holy
instant. I am going to engage in That which, I am told, undoes the
obstacles to peace.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You who believe you have
condemned the Son of God to this ARE arrogant. But you who would release
him are but honoring the Will of his Creator.
{: .omit}

The arrogance of sin, the pride of guilt, the sepulchre of separation,
all are part of your unrecognized dedication to death. The glitter of
guilt you laid upon the body would kill it. For what the ego &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; listen to this:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For what the ego loves it kills for its obedience.
</div>

You see, the threat of death is what keeps you cemented to the confused
outlook defined by the word &ldquo;ego.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For what the ego loves it kills for its obedience.
</div>

But listen to this:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
But what obeys it not it CANNOT kill.
</div>

Well, how do you not obey the ego? You abandon it! As I&rsquo;ve said
many times before: the only thing the ego cannot defend itself against,
is disregard. How do you disregard it? Yep, the two-step, the practice
of the holy instant.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have another dedication &hellip;
</div>

[Chuckling] &hellip; one besides the dedication to the ego and death.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have another dedication which would keep the body incorruptible and
perfect as long as it is useful for your holy purpose.
</div>

Wow! Is that the way you would describe an illusion? Is that the way you
would describe something that is going to disappear?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have another dedication which would keep the body incorruptible and
perfect as long as it is useful for your holy purpose.
</div>

That simply means forever, unless you choose to abandon your holy
purpose and attempt once again to be an arrogant ego.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[a little farther down the page:] The body no more
dies than it can feel. It does NOTHING.

Of itself&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; those are the key words.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Of itself&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; referring to the body &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; it is neither corruptible nor incorruptible.
</div>

That&rsquo;s because it doesn&rsquo;t exist of itself.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Of itself, it is neither corruptible nor incorruptible. It IS nothing.
It is the result of a tiny, mad idea of corruption which can be
CORRECTED.
</div>

But now, I&rsquo;m going to get real picky here. I&rsquo;m going to
change the wording, because this expresses the real meaning here:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The body no more dies than it can feel. It does NOTHING. Of itself, it
is neither corruptible nor incorruptible. [Of itself,] it IS nothing.
[Of itself,] it is the result of a tiny, mad idea of corruption which
can be CORRECTED.
</div>

The words &ldquo;of itself,&rdquo; need to begin all three of those
sentences. So you can see, it is not saying that the body is nothing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Of itself, it is neither corruptible nor incorruptible. [Of itself,] it
IS nothing.
</div>

Of course, &ldquo;of itself.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
 [Of itself,] it is the result of a tiny, mad idea of corruption which .
 . .
</div>

&hellip; what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; can be CORRECTED.
</div>

Not gotten rid of! The body is not there to be gotten rid of, but the
misperception is to be corrected. That&rsquo;s what all of this is
about: The undoing of the obstacle to peace, called the Attraction of
Death.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For God has answered this insane idea with His Own, an answer which left
Him not, and therefore brings the Creator to the awareness of every mind
which heard His answer and ACCEPTED it.
</div>

Now we&rsquo;ve paid attention in a sober way to the idea of the
attraction of death. And I have elaborated on it to provide more
meaning. Listen to this.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You who are dedicated to the incorruptible have been given, through your
acceptance, the power to RELEASE from corruption.
</div>

You see? The undoing of the obstacle.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What better way to teach the first and fundamental principle in a course
on miracles than by showing you the one which seems to be the hardest
can be accomplished first? The body can but serve your purpose. As you
look upon it, so will it seem to be.
</div>

Doesn&rsquo;t say, &ldquo;so will it seem to appear and
disappear.&rdquo;

As you look upon it, so will it seem to be.

And the question is: With what are you going to look upon it?
That&rsquo;s all. One secures the seeming interminable on-goingness of
birth and death and the other undoes it, giving rise to or revealing
eternal Life now &hellip; now &hellip; now.

I love you very much. And I look forward to being with you next time.

[^1]: T19.8 Obstacles to Peace; The Attraction of Death
[^2]: John 11:25
[^3]: Acts 9:18
[^4]: Phillipians 2:5

