---
title: Jun 14, 2015
ref: T19.10 Obstacles to Peace; The Fear of God
alink: "/acim/text/19/chap1910/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

It is very easy when coping with fear or when attempting to move beyond
it, to feel that it is a very complex problem&mdash;one that
you&rsquo;re likely to be unable to accomplish. And when&mdash;as
we&rsquo;re reading about the Obstacles to Peace&mdash;you hear what
seems to be a very complex set of beliefs and misunderstandings, you can
very easily begin to think that it&rsquo;s going to be difficult,
because it is so complex. And so, before we continue tonight, I want to
consider the larger picture.

You&mdash;all of us&mdash;are the Sons and Daughters of God. No matter
what you think, no matter what you&rsquo;ve come to believe, that is the
bottom line. That is the unchangeable fact. You and I&mdash;we&mdash;are
all the Sons and Daughters of God right now. The difference between you
and me is that you don&rsquo;t believe it, and you claim another
definition for yourself&mdash;a definition which you are committed to.
But nevertheless, we are Brothers and Sisters. Offspring of the same
Father.

My purpose in communicating with you, in being involved in our
Brotherhood in a very active way, as I am right now, is to remind you of
the truth about you &hellip; which is the truth right now, even though
it seems unbelievable to you.

Because you are and Sons and Daughters of God, I have shared that you
must remember that you are neither behind the point of perfection nor
advancing toward it. You are at that point and must understand yourself
therefrom.

This means that the apparent journey that you embark upon in abandoning
the Obstacles to Peace, is a journey without distance as the Course
speaks of. You are making the journey from your destination. You are
right now a holy Son or Daughter of God believing that you are not, and
engaged in the steps which will allow you to
rediscover&mdash;remember&mdash;that you are, and never stopped being
the holy Sons and Daughters of God. And so, you are Waking up to your
holiness from your holiness. You see what I mean?

The divine one that you Are, we could say, is engaged in remembering
your divinity from your holy place of divinity. This is very important
to understand, because the complexity that you seem to be confronted
with, is not complex at all, even though you can think about it with
great complexity.

Now, when you decided to dally with the ego by claiming independence
from the Father and from everything else, your divinity, your true
Selfhood was held in trust, as I&rsquo;ve said before, and it&rsquo;s
what&rsquo;s called &ldquo;the Holy Spirit.&rdquo; That of you which you
were ignoring, did not go away, could not go away, could not be altered
in any way, and therefore, the wholeness of you constantly has been
engaged in getting your attention.

In other words, the poor little mortal that you have thought you were,
has been constantly invited to remember your holiness. There has been
the constant invitation to you by, for lack of better words, divine
Love, encouraging you to become unsure about your commitment to your
mortality and to cause a chink in your armor that would let the Light of
your Being&mdash;the truth of You&mdash;penetrate and register with you.

In other words, you have never been alone, you have never been
abandoned, and you have constantly been embraced and
encouraged&mdash;invited&mdash;to remember who you divinely Are.

Now, there&rsquo;s no way to overcome or move beyond the Obstacles to
Peace all by yourself, or for your own private reasons, because as we
discussed last time, independence is the problem and union is the
solution.

Now, the fourth obstacle is The Fear of God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What would you see without the fear of death?[^1]
</div>

&ldquo;Well,&rdquo; you say, &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t know. I&rsquo;m not
sure. Without the fear of death, I would be thrown into the not-knowing
place, because the one thing I was sure of, I&rsquo;m
abandoning&mdash;death!&rdquo;

Well, you know what? You don&rsquo;t have to use your imagination. You
don&rsquo;t have to imagine something radical. Every single one of you,
at one time or another&mdash;usually due to circumstances&mdash;have had
the occasion where you were called into Silence. I mean by that, that
either through illness or injury or overwhelming fear, you have been
brought to a place of humility, except that you would have called it
&ldquo;humiliation.&rdquo;

And in that state, your arrogance was abandoned. And in that place, in
one way or another, divine Love was able to penetrate your willfulness
and touch you and lift you and restore you. Every one of you has had
that experience to one degree or another. That experience is the
experience you have without the fear of death.

Without the fear of death, you would see everything without any
indulgence in self-protection, without any need to provide any
definition to what you were experiencing. And in the absence of your
defining everything, what everything divinely IS can register with you,
&hellip; and everything is at peace.

That&rsquo;s the first thing. Everything is at peace: Living, Loving,
dynamic peace.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What would you see without the fear of death?
What would you feel and think if death held no attraction for you? Very
simply, you would remember your Father.
</div>

Why? Because in your peace, in the absence of willful self-assertion,
That of you which you&rsquo;ve been ignoring Which has been called
&ldquo;the Holy Spirit,&rdquo; has an open door to connect with and
register with you.

And what is the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s Function? It is to reveal God to you
and to reveal your relationship&mdash;your inseparable
Oneness&mdash;with the Father, and thus bring you back into your right
Mind.

So that&rsquo;s why you will remember your Father.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Very simply, you would remember your Father.
</div>

And listen to this:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Creator of life, the Source of everything
that lives, the Father of the universe and of the universe of universes,
and of everything that lies even beyond them would you remember.
</div>

Does that sound to you like the world and universe is going to
disappear? If your Father is the Father of the universe and of the
universe of universes, and of everything that lies even beyond them, and
this is what you&rsquo;re going to remember, then there is not going to
be a radical interruption of your conscious experience of everything. It
will instead, be a gentle adjustment into the awareness of it all and
the fact that it is all at peace. In other words, the movement of
Creation involves no conflict. It is pure harmony, and you are purely at
peace and in harmony with it.

Now, you all have the opportunity&mdash;without dying and without having
to have a radical imagination&mdash;you all have the opportunity and the
means of moving into that experience, and it&rsquo;s called,
&ldquo;meditation.&rdquo; Meditation is when you silence the mind, which
means you shut down the thinking so that the pure experience of
conscious Awareness is what is left.

Now every time we have a meeting, every time Paul shares me with anyone,
he moves into the holy instant. He moves into that place where his
thinking is silenced. He moves into that place in which everything is at
peace, and there is nothing&mdash;no conflict&mdash;to resolve or
overcome.

And every single one of you, when you meditate and move into the
Silence, have done the same thing. It is the way you move out of the
Obstacles to Peace. And in that space, even though initially it is a
limited experience of the universe of universes and everything beyond it
that you will remember, you are nevertheless experiencing the quality
and the nature of Reality.

It&rsquo;s important to understand this, because when you meditate and
become still, you&rsquo;re not engaged in overcoming anything.
You&rsquo;re simply engaged in abandoning the making of
&ldquo;noise.&rdquo; You see? And so, the overcoming of the Obstacles to
Peace is that simple. And you already have the experience. And if you
haven&rsquo;t had it, it&rsquo;s easily available to you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And as this memory &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; of the universe of universes and everything beyond &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; rises in your mind, peace must still
surmount a final obstacle, after which is salvation completed, and the
Son of God entirely restored to sanity. For here your world DOES end.
</div>

And what does that mean? It means the world, as you have chosen to
perceive it, ends &hellip; because you&rsquo;ve abandoned the thinking.
You&rsquo;ve abandoned the use of your mind that seems to have created a
creation different from the Kingdom of Heaven.

That is what ends, because clarity is restored. Peace is restored.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The fourth obstacle to be surmounted &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; The Fear of God &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; hangs like a heavy veil before the face
of Christ.
</div>

Before your face. Don&rsquo;t think it hangs before mine, between you
and me. The veil hangs between you and your Real face&mdash;the face of
the Christ that you Are. In other words, if you are neither behind the
point of perfection nor advancing toward it, but are at that point and
must understand yourself therefrom, it means that the Christ that awaits
you on the other side of the veil, is the Christ that you Are&mdash;the
Christ that is making this journey of moving through the veil from the
other side of the veil already.

Catch the meaning of this! Because it&rsquo;s essential.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet as His face &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Christ&rsquo;s face&mdash;your face &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; rises beyond it, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the veil &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; shining with joy because He &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is in His Father's Love, peace will
lightly brush the veil aside and run to meet Him, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you &hellip; .

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and to join with Him &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; at last. For this dark veil, which
seems to make the face of Christ Himself &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your face &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; like to a leper's, and the bright rays
of His Father's Love &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your Father&rsquo;s Love &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; which light His face &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your face &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; with glory appear as streams of blood,
fades in the blazing light beyond it when the fear of death is gone.
</div>

When the fear of death is gone, clarity of Mind&mdash;the clarity of
your divinity&mdash;fills you, becomes your experience of you, because
It is. It rushes in because you&rsquo;ve made room for It and opened the
door.

You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is the darkest veil, upheld by the belief
in death, and protected by its attraction.
</div>

Your Oneness with God and your willingness to experience It is the last
part of moving beyond the Obstacles to Peace. Abandoning your attraction
to your definitions and your attraction to your commitment to death by
virtue of your unwillingness to believe your eternality, &hellip; that
will be gone.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The dedication to death and to its sovereignty
is but the solemn vow, the promise made in secret to the ego never to
lift this veil, not to approach it, nor even to suspect that it is
there.
</div>

Now here&rsquo;s part of the complexity. Because you can run off at the
mind [chuckling] with all kinds of conjectures and suppositions about
what that means&mdash;that you made a solemn vow to not even suspect
that it is there. Oh-h-h! But don&rsquo;t go there! Don&rsquo;t waste
your energy.

The fact is that you are bound, apparently by the laws of sin and death.
But it&rsquo;s not true. And you are bound to become free of them.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is the secret bargain made with the ego to
keep what lies beyond the veil forever blotted out and unremembered.
</div>

Again, though, you&rsquo;re on the other side of the veil. That which
you divinely Are, you still divinely Are. And It is intent upon
reuniting this &ldquo;private&rdquo; part of you&mdash;that you want to
keep private&mdash;with It &hellip; to reunite you with It.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Here is your promise never to allow union to
call you out of separation; the great amnesia in which the memory of God
seems quite forgotten; the cleavage of your Self from you;&ndash; THE
FEAR OF GOD, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the fourth Obstacle to Peace &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the final step in your dissociation.
</div>

&ldquo;Oh, but Father, I&rsquo;d rather define it myself.&rdquo;
&ldquo;Oh, but Father, I&rsquo;d rather do it my way.&rdquo; And that
first step followed through to an ultimate fear of God that caused you
to make a pact with the sense of yourself that you developed that said,
you would forever be devoted to this finite, fearful, guilty, entity
that you have become. *But none of it is true.*

None of it has ever been true. And the uncovering of it, and your
freedom from it, is what we are engaged in facilitating.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
See how the belief in death would seem to "save"
you.
</div>

From what? From having to look at God, from having to recognize God for
what He is and therefore, you for what you Are.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the belief in death would seem to
"save" you.
</div>

&hellip; from that.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For if this is gone, what can you fear but LIFE?
</div>

Nothing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is the attraction of death that makes life
seem to be ugly, cruel and tyrannical.
</div>

You know, let&rsquo;s not be too indefinite here:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; ugly, cruel and tyrannical.
</div>

Well, tyrannical: You believe that your body has a life of its own and
it can do to you what it will. And it will ultimately harm you, because
by your definition it is something which deteriorates and ultimately
self-destructs, which means it destroys you. That&rsquo;s the way life
can seem to be tyrannical&mdash;brought down to practical terms.

Cruel: Wow &hellip; earthquakes, enemies. They can take away your life,
they can take away your happiness, they can make you miserable. And they
do behave miserably and create misery, because they are filled with fear
and guilt, because they also think that they are the separated entity
that they were confronted with when they said, &ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;d
rather see it my way.&rdquo;

Well, there is another way to look at everything. And that&rsquo;s what
we&rsquo;re doing in the process of getting past the Obstacles to Peace.

Now, this next sentence will surprise you:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You are no more afraid of death than of the ego.
These are your chosen FRIENDS. For in your secret alliance with them,
you have agreed never to let the fear of God be lifted, so you could
look upon the face of Christ, and join Him in His Father.
</div>

Meaning: so that you could look upon your face as the Son of God, and in
your realization and acknowledgement of your Sonship, to join Him, to
not be different from Him because He is your Father, He is your Source.

Now you wouldn&rsquo;t say that you&rsquo;ve made friends with death,
but when I tell you that you are the Son or Daughter of God, and that
you are eternal at this very moment, and that no matter what you believe
or what you see, you are incapable of dying and that you can have
immediate evidence of the restoration of what you divinely Are at any
moment, you don&rsquo;t believe me!

&ldquo;Oh-h &hellip; yes,&rdquo; you say, &ldquo;I know that as I work
through my &lsquo;karma&rsquo; I will eventually arrive at a point, not
of resuming my divinity, but deserving to be given divine status.&rdquo;
You see?

You&rsquo;re not divine now &hellip; but you can earn it! There&rsquo;s
your commitment to death. There&rsquo;s your commitment to the Fear of
God, there&rsquo;s your unwillingness to see God in your Brother&rsquo;s
eyes, or your very own when you look in the mirror. &ldquo;Oh, yes,
maybe someday, but not now &hellip; NOT NOW!&rdquo;

There&rsquo;s the commitment! There you are choosing for death, choosing
for the lack of peace and choosing to fear God and to see God as a
fearful aspect of your future even as you regain or achieve divinity.

Now are you the Sons of God. And it doth not yet appear what ye shall be
&hellip; what ye shall be. Well it doesn&rsquo;t matter what you shall
be. Now are you the Sons and Daughters of God. And now is when you can
experience that Fact. But you will not experience It if you do not
abandon the four Obstacles to Peace. And as I&rsquo;m pointing out
tonight, abandoning them is not as difficult as it might sound as we
read here, or as you might think when you&rsquo;re confronted with fear,
or feelings of guilt.

But the simple fact is, that no matter what is going on, no matter what
frightening thing is going on, you are capable of sitting down, closing
your eyes and saying a mantra, or paying attention to the sensation of
the air moving past the bridge of your nose, and neglecting to think,
because you are devoted to saying the mantra or paying attention to the
sensation. And peace comes. You experience peace. It is unavoidable if
you take the steps.

It doesn&rsquo;t matter what&rsquo;s going on. It doesn&rsquo;t matter
how conflicted everything seems to be in your life or in the world as
you look out there and everything going on out there seems to convince
you that there is justification not to be in your peace. But your peace
is available to you, and in the experience of it, you are succeeding in
getting past the Fear of God and being in that place where the Holy
Spirit&mdash;your right Mind&mdash;can reveal the presence of God in you
as You. And it is not more complicated than that.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Every obstacle that peace must flow across is
surmounted in just the same way; &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; each of the four obstacles &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is surmounted in just the same way;
&hellip;
</div>

There isn&rsquo;t a different technique or practice because each of them
is different or more complicated than the other.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Every obstacle &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; of the four obstacles &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; that peace must flow across is
surmounted in just the same way; &hellip;
</div>

And here it is:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the fear that raised it yields to the
love beneath, and so the fear is gone. And so it is with this.
</div>

&hellip; the Fear of God. Do you hear that?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Every obstacle that peace must flow across is
surmounted in just the same way; the fear that raised it yields to the
love beneath, and so the fear is gone. [And so it is with this.] The
desire to get rid of peace and drive the Holy Spirit from you &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; which is the first obstacle &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; fades in the presence of the quiet
recognition that you love Him.
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The exaltation of the body &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; which is the second obstacle &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is given up in favor of the Spirit,
which you love as you could NEVER love the body. And the appeal of death
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the third obstacle &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is lost forever as love's attraction
stirs and calls to you. From beyond each of the obstacles to love, Love
Itself has called, and each has been surmounted by the power of the
attraction of what lies beyond.
</div>

&hellip; what lies beyond each of the obstacles. You see? It&rsquo;s not
as complicated as you think and the only reason you are on the journey,
the apparent journey, is because you&rsquo;re being helped from the
destination &hellip; right now &hellip; right here &hellip; no matter
whether you think you deserve it or not, because whatever definition is
being applied to you, if it isn&rsquo;t that you are the holy Son or
Daughter of God, it isn&rsquo;t true and you are not bound by it. You
are free to move beyond it by virtue of abandoning the Obstacles to
Peace. That&rsquo;s what this is all about.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your WANTING fear seemed to be holding them in
place.
</div>

The Obstacles to Peace.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your WANTING fear &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and we talked about this. Oh, I know, you don&rsquo;t want
fear, but, oh boy, you sure do use it. And you use it [chuckling] with a
degree of skill and excellence&mdash;misguided as it is&mdash;to magnify
your strengths and your credibility to prove to yourself that you are
something valid and valuable and worthy. Oh no, you don&rsquo;t want
fear, but boy, you sure want the benefit that can come from dealing with
fear well. You see? Pay attention.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your WANTING fear seemed to be holding them in
place. Yet when you heard the voice of love beyond them, you answered
and they disappeared.
</div>

Now, as I said, you have all in one way or another&mdash;and no one is
excluded from this&mdash;each one of you, in one way or another, has had
the experience of humiliation and humility that it took in order for
Love to reach you and show you that your validity wasn&rsquo;t dependent
upon anything you could do, but was inherent in you as an eternal Gift
that caused you, in whatever circumstance you were in, to shift
perception and experience the blessing and the healing of that.

So we are not talking about something foreign to you that it will be
hard for you to achieve.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet when you heard the voice of love beyond
them, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Obstacles to Peace &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you answered and they disappeared.

And now you stand in terror before what you swore never to look upon.
</div>

&hellip; referring to the forth obstacle: The Fear of God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your eyes look down, remembering your promise to
your "friends."
</div>

You know, fear and guilt and the ego.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The "loveliness" of sin, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; &ldquo;loveliness,&rdquo; of course is in quotes.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The "loveliness" &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the attractiveness of sin, the pleasure of sin &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the delicate appeal of guilt, the
"holy" waxen image of death, and the fear of vengeance of the ego you
swore in blood not to desert, all rise and bid you not to raise your
eyes.
</div>

&hellip; not to look at God again.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For you realize that if you look on this and LET
the veil be lifted, THEY will be gone forever.
</div>

The Obstacles to Peace will be gone forever. The ego and it&rsquo;s
misdirection and it&rsquo;s deceit will be gone forever. Fear will be
gone forever, and you will never be called upon again to show your
validity by the strength with which you overcame the fear. That will be
gone. And what will you be left with? The remembrance of your Father and
therefore the remembrance of who you divinely Are.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
All of your "friends," your "protectors" and
your "home" &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning, your body as you were defining it &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; will vanish.
</div>

In other words, the use to which you put Creation for your own purposes
will be gone! And you&rsquo;ll be left with what? Creation as It is,
Creation as the Father is being It, including You as the witness to
Creation as being the expression of the Father. Your Function is, as
co-creator, to confirm that Creation is the Father&rsquo;s.

When you&rsquo;re in this process:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Nothing that you remember now will you remember.
{: .omit}

It seems to you the world will utterly abandon you if you but raise your
eyes. Yet all that will occur is you will leave the world &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what world? Not Creation! Not the universe of universes and
everything beyond &hellip; and everything up close. No!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; all that will occur is you will leave
the world forever.
</div>

You will leave the meanings you have superimposed upon It. And you will
leave the suffering that was the result of your superimposing your
definitions upon Creation.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is the re-establishment of YOUR will.
</div>

And we&rsquo;re not talking here about the will you were engaged in
using to create a distorted perception of Reality. We&rsquo;re talking
about the Father&rsquo;s Will in you, Which you can have none other
than, because you are the current direct expression of God being All.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Look upon it, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your will &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; open-eyed, and you will nevermore
believe that you are at the mercy of things beyond you, forces you
cannot control, and thoughts that come to you against your will.

Look upon it, open-eyed, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning, your will. And let&rsquo;s be very clear here: what
you&rsquo;re looking upon that&rsquo;s your will, is the Father&rsquo;s
Will, not being altered, tampered with, or manipulated or biased in any
way, by any effort on your part. Look at your will in the recognition
that it is the Father&rsquo;s Will and you will never be afraid again,
nor will you think that you have anything to overcome, especially
through some special private skill of your own.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It IS your will to look on this. No mad desire,
no trivial impulse to forget again, no stab of fear nor the cold sweat
of seeming death can stand against your will.
</div>

&hellip; the Father&rsquo;s Will in you that is You.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For what attracts you from beyond the veil is
also deep WITHIN you, unseparated from it and completely One.
</div>

You see? Right now, when you think that you are a private mortal entity,
you are not. You, right here, evidently in the middle of mortality, are
the unchanged Son or Daughter of God, the One who, because He or She
never changed, is on the other side of the veil, calling to you in the
form of the Holy Spirit, to get you to abandon the division that you
have put in place.

So, we are talking about the abandonment of independence and the
reemergence as a conscious experience of unity, of union. And the divine
one that you Are as you think you are a mortal, is inseparable from the
divine one that you Are, who is neither behind the point of perfection
nor advancing toward it, but is at that point, and which it calls to you
to understand, and in the understanding, move beyond the Obstacles to
Peace.

Don&rsquo;t let this get too complicated. Don&rsquo;t let the solution
become difficult in your mind. You all have the capacity to still the
human mind, to become still and to inquire in the Silence,
&ldquo;Father, Holy Spirit, what is the truth here?&rdquo; And in so
doing, find yourself in the space in which the Obstacles to Peace are
absent. The simple necessity is to begin to practice this now &hellip;
now &hellip; now.

I love you all and I look forward to being with you next time.

[^1]: T19.10 Obstacles to Peace; The Fear of God

