---
title: Jun 21, 2015
ref: T19.10 Obstacles to Peace; The Fear of God
alink: "/acim/text/19/chap1910/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

We&rsquo;re discussing the Obstacles to Peace. Why? What is the purpose
of overcoming the Obstacles to Peace? Is it so that you might ultimately
rejoin with the Father&mdash;abandon your independence from the Father
and reunite&mdash;and come back into your natural divine relationship
with Him? Well, yes, but not that alone.

The simple fact is, you did not get a divorce from your Father. You did
not claim your independence with total independence, if I may put it
that way. You claimed your independence by joining with a Brother or a
Sister in a mutual agreement to decide what everything meant, what
everything means, to take the place of the movement of Creation that the
Father Is, so that you might have, with a Brother or Sister, a unique
experience of your own.

And so you didn&rsquo;t just walk in, we&rsquo;ll say, into the Presence
of the Father and deny Him, and walk away independent from Him. No, that
cannot be done. The only thing that can be done and the only thing that
happened was, that you and a Brother&mdash;without walking into the
Father&rsquo;s Presence at all to ask Him or tell Him
anything&mdash;you said to each other, &ldquo;Well, I&rsquo;m looking at
this and I&rsquo;m looking at that. You know &hellip; there must be a
different way to look at this.

&ldquo;We must be able because we are the expression of the Creator, we must be able to
be creative. So let&rsquo;s you and I make up the meanings. Let&rsquo;s
decide what everything means.  Let&rsquo;s decide how we&rsquo;re going
to deal with everything and we&rsquo;ll forget about the Father.
We&rsquo;ll just have fun altering what He has made.&rdquo;

And so, as part of the Atonement, the undoing of that mutual act of
independence must occur. And so the overcoming of the Obstacles to Peace
is not just to undo the separation and independence from your Father
that you have been engaged in. It is to undo the separation and
independence from your brothers and sisters as well.

Well, does that now all of a sudden throw a complication into the
picture?  I mean, after all, we&rsquo;ve been talking about overcoming
the Fear of God, the fourth obstacle&mdash;the last obstacle. And I made
it clear last week &hellip; I reminded everyone &hellip; that you are
neither behind the point of perfection nor advancing toward it. You are
at that point and you must understand yourself therefrom. I pointed this
out so that you might be able to easily grasp that you&rsquo;re making
this journey Home &hellip; from Home.

Well, there&rsquo;s an additional little piece to this. And that is,
that your brother, your sister is neither behind the point of perfection
nor advancing toward it. Your brother or sister is at that point, just
as you are, and you must understand them therefrom.

&ldquo;Oh-h, in other words, we&rsquo;ve got to go back together? I
can&rsquo;t [chuckling] independently abandon my independence?&rdquo;

That&rsquo;s right &hellip; that&rsquo;s right.

Now, this isn&rsquo;t really new. All along throughout the Course, you
have been reminded in one way or another that your Salvation lies in
your brother, not yourself&mdash;that you can&rsquo;t prove your
divinity or worth, your divinity, your brother must! And likewise, your
task is to bear witness to your brother&rsquo;s or sister&rsquo;s
divinity, holiness, perfection.

So, keep this in mind as we continue on in this new Section:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Lifting of the Veil[^1]

Forget not that you came this far TOGETHER. 
</div>

You came this far with each other&mdash;with your fellow man. When you
have practiced the two-step, when you have practiced the holy instant
and you have asked, &ldquo;What is the truth here?&rdquo; you will
remember that for the most part, the question has referred to something
regarding your brother or sister.

&ldquo;What is the truth here with my sister or my brother? What is the
truth about my brother that I may feel and comprehend and understand so
completely that that&rsquo;s the way in which I regard my brothers or
sisters and is the basis upon which I treat my brothers or sisters so
that I become, as you have said, a benign presence,&rdquo; a presence in
whom it is easier for your brother to embrace the truth about himself.
You see?

This is the wholeness of the process of Atonement.

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Forget not that you came this far TOGETHER. And
it was surely not the ego that led you here. No obstacle to peace can be
surmounted through ITS help. IT does not open up its secrets, and bid
you look on them and go beyond them. 
</div>

[Chuckling] Of course not.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
IT would not have you see its weakness, and
learn it has no power to keep you from the truth. The Guide Who brought
you here &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit or your Guide.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Guide Who brought you here REMAINS with you,
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; now, at this point, in your increasing clarity &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and when you raise your eyes, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; to once again look at God and violate the pact you have with
the ego never to do that &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; when you raise your eyes, you will be
READY to look on terror with no fear at all. 
</div>

What terror? The terror that has been established in you by your
impossible, independent thinking that has caused you to see God as
wrathful and as one who will take His wrath out on you for having denied
Him.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you will be READY to look on terror
with no fear at all. But first, lift up your eyes and look upon each
other in innocence born of complete forgiveness of each other's
illusions, and through the eyes of faith, which sees them not. 
</div>

You see? You&rsquo;re going to have to go back Home together. So as you
lift your eyes to look at God without fear, on the way you need to give
your attention to your brothers and sisters.

Now, you have been doing this. As we have gone along, I&rsquo;ve
constantly pointed out to you that when you practice the holy instant,
it is to be an agent for change for your brother, to be a witness on
behalf of your sister&rsquo;s holiness and so on.

So this isn&rsquo;t something new that you&rsquo;re now going to have to
do before Atonement can be experienced. It&rsquo;s just that there is no
way for you to look at the Father without fear and join with Him without
bringing along with you, your brother, whom you have joined with,
because you have been practicing the holy instant, and you have been
able to witness for him or her. And you have witnessed. And it has
brought you to the point where you can now look at what we&rsquo;re
discussing and dare to take the next step of looking on up to the Father
without fear.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
No-one can look upon the fear of God unterrified
unless he has accepted the Atonement, &hellip;
</div>

In other words, unless he has begun to experience what the Atonement
means, as a result of his genuine and humble practice of the
two-step&mdash;the holy instant &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; No-one can look upon the fear of God
unterrified unless he has accepted the Atonement, and learned illusions
are not real &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that they are nothing more than wild imagination that has its
source in nothing, at least nothing valid, and therefore, have no power
whatsoever, except the fear which you introduce and exercise as wildly
as the imaginations were formed &hellip; and scare yourself.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
No-one can stand before this obstacle &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the fourth obstacle, **The Fear of God** &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; alone, for he could not have reached
thus far UNLESS his brother walked beside him &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the brothers or sisters that you have been willing to use as
justification for abandoning your best judgments, and turning to the
Holy Spirit or the Father to know the truth about them.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And no-one would dare to look on it without
complete forgiveness of his brother in his heart. 
</div>

Why? Because the love that is embodied in the forgiveness extended to a
brother is the language of Being, through which the communication of
unity moves and finds expression&mdash;actualization.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Stand you here a while, and tremble not. 
</div>

*Stand you here* in this regard of your Brother or your Sister and your
forgiveness of them, before forcing your way further on into looking at
God without fear. You&rsquo;re not going to be able to look at God
without fear, without your brother or sister standing beside you in your
unconditional loving embrace.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Stand you here a while, and tremble not. You
will be ready. Let us join together in a holy instant, here in this
place where the purpose GIVEN in a holy instant has led you. 
</div>

Let us join together in this conscious awareness of forgiveness of your
brother and sister, knowing that it is an integral part of lifting your
eyes all the way to look at God without fear, and thus overcome the last
of the four Obstacles to Peace.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And let us join in faith that He Who brought us
here together will offer you the innocence you need, and that you will
accept it for my love and His. 
</div>

Now let&rsquo;s understand this clearly.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; let us join in faith that He Who
brought us here together &hellip;
</div>

Who is that He? That He is the Christ that your Brother Is, even though
he doesn&rsquo;t believe it and you don&rsquo;t believe it. But the
presence of your Brother, we&rsquo;ll say, being a problem, is what is
causing you to turn to the Father for clarification and for
healing&mdash;not just for yourself but for your Brother. The Christ,
the one that is neither behind the point of perfection nor advancing
toward it, is confronting you, and brings you here together.

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; let us join in faith that He Who
brought us here together will offer you the innocence you need, &hellip;
</div>

See? Your innocent Brother&mdash;the one who&rsquo;s neither behind the
point of perfection nor advancing toward it&mdash;is extending you Love.
The Christ of your Brother is extending you Love because right now He is
at the point of perfection just as you are&mdash;even though he and you
believe differently, just as you are.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Nor is it possible to look on this too soon.
</div>

In other words, there&rsquo;s no justification for delay whatsoever.
Let&rsquo;s get on with the transforming elements that move you beyond
the *Obstacles to Peace*.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is the place to which everyone must come
when he is ready. Once he has found his brother he IS ready. 
</div>

Once you have found your brother, whether he&rsquo;s expressing Love or
a call for Love, you are at a point of readiness, actually, to know the
truth that heals both your brother and yourself, else you wouldn&rsquo;t
be confronted with anything.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet merely to reach the place is not enough. A
journey without a purpose is still meaningless, and even when it is over
it seems to make no sense. How can you KNOW that it is over unless you
realize its purpose IS accomplished? 
</div>

I will tell you, you will Know the Answer to that when you do it, when
you are willing to look into your brother&rsquo;s eyes and remember God,
instead of what you have determined he is, and instead of what he has
determined he is with your help.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And it is here you choose whether to look upon
it &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; actually do it &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; or wander on, only to return and make
the choice again. 
</div>

So, you don&rsquo;t only get one chance. You can approach it and
re-approach it over and over again. But the conclusion to this process
will not arrive &hellip; you will not arrive at the conclusion until you
actually make commitment to the joining with the same strength that you
made commitment to the act of independence. That means you will have to
express with energy, with that which evokes real change in you&mdash;a
resolve in you. But it can never be too soon to look on this.

So this is where we are. This is the point in the abandonment or the
overcoming of the fourth Obstacle to Peace that you are ready for and
that it is time to tackle.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To look upon the fear of God DOES need some
preparation. 
</div>

And I will tell you that every time you actively engage in the holy
instant, desiring of the Father or the Holy Spirit to Know what the
truth is here, right now, on planet Earth, no matter what it is
you&rsquo;re doing, your practice of that prepares you. You have been
preparing yourself.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To look upon the fear of God DOES need some
preparation. 
</div>

And that is not meant to imply that you haven&rsquo;t already been
engaged in it. At least if we have been meeting together and you have
been hearing what I&rsquo;ve said and you have been practicing that.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Only the sane can look on stark insanity and
raving madness with pity and compassion, but not with fear. For only if
they share in it does it seem fearful, and you DO share in it &hellip;
</div>

Listen to this:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; until you look upon each other with
perfect faith and love and tenderness. 
</div>

And that&rsquo;s why you practice the holy instant so that you, sooner
rather than later &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; look upon each other with perfect faith
and love and tenderness. Before complete forgiveness you still stand
unforgiving. You are afraid of God BECAUSE you fear each other. Those
you do not forgive YOU FEAR. And no-one reaches love with fear beside
him. 
</div>

You see now, the importance of practicing the holy instant now &hellip;
now &hellip; now &hellip; now, throughout your day, right here on planet
Earth, right here in what you have determined to be &ldquo;the human
condition&rdquo;? Because that&rsquo;s the way fear is lessened. And
with fear lessened, what lies underneath it, which is Love, emerges
fully and is the transforming element.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This brother who stands beside you still seems
to be a stranger. You do not know him, and your interpretation of him is
very fearful. 
</div>

Pay attention when you listen to the news, whether it&rsquo;s news of
your city, of your country, or of another country or of another group.
This brother, these brother that you see whose behavior is illustrated
in the news, this brother who stands beside you still seems to be a
stranger. You&rsquo;re frightened. You feel justification for fear.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You do not know him, and your interpretation of
him is very fearful. 
</div>

Mind you, it says your interpretation of him is very fearful. It
doesn&rsquo;t say &ldquo;he is very fearful.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; your interpretation of him is very
fearful. And you attack him still, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; we&rsquo;ll say, at the least, by simply being afraid of him.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And you attack him still, to keep what seems to
be YOURSELF unharmed. Yet in his hands is your salvation. 
</div>

Mind you, I know you like the idea that the truth about you is that you
are neither behind the point of perfection nor advancing toward it, that
you are at that point and that somehow the task is to understand
yourself therefrom. But the call is for you to do the very same thing
about your brother, whether he&rsquo;s shooting people in a church,
whether he&rsquo;s shooting people in a dark alley, whether the one
shooting is a police officer misbehaving, whether it is a group of
people in the Mid East who are wreaking havoc, whether it&rsquo;s a
country that&rsquo;s wreaking havoc. The fact is, that these brothers
are, just as you are&mdash;the Christ&mdash;the holy Sons and Daughters
of God, just like me. And you must come to the point of extending to
them the same acknowledgement that I am extending to you, because that
is the transforming element.

That is very important.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; in his hands is your salvation. You see
his madness, which you hate because you SHARE it. And all the pity and
forgiveness that would heal it gives way to fear. Brothers, you NEED
forgiveness of each other, &hellip;
</div>

Mind you we&rsquo;re no longer talking at the moment about lifting your
eyes up to look at God without fear, because this must be part and
parcel of it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you NEED forgiveness of each other, for
you will share in madness or in Heaven together. 
</div>

You see? Together!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And you will raise your eyes in faith together,
or not at all. 
</div>

This may be difficult to hear. It may seem impossible, like an
impossible task, but that&rsquo;s part of your fearful mindset and is
not what will be conveyed to you when you engage in the holy instant on
behalf of your brother, so that you might become cleared of false
information which it is inappropriate for you to be indulging in or
believing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Beside each of you is one who offers you the
chalice of Atonement, &hellip;
</div>

Beside each of you &hellip; I&rsquo;m not talking here about angels or
your Guides. I&rsquo;m talking about your brothers and sisters whom you
can see and touch.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Beside each of you is one who offers you the
chalice of Atonement, for the Holy Spirit is in him. 
</div>

&hellip; not behind or advancing toward the point of perfection.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the Holy Spirit is in him. Would you
hold his sins against him, or accept his gift to you? 
</div>

&ldquo;Why, he&rsquo;s not giving me the gift of salvation, he&rsquo;s
giving me the gift of fear. He is threatening me. He&rsquo;s brandishing
a gun in my face. He is proving to me that I can&rsquo;t go to sleep at
night and be in my peace.&rdquo;

Well you know what? We&rsquo;re talking about two different
&ldquo;entities,&rdquo; if I may put it that way. If you&rsquo;re going
to be difficult and harsh with your brother in that way, you must be
hard and harsh with yourself, because you are not behaving as though you
are at the point of perfection and understanding yourself therefrom. You
are engaging in fearful, aggressive, mean-spirited responses. &ldquo;He
is doing this.&rdquo; &ldquo;He is doing that.&rdquo; &ldquo;He
isn&rsquo;t doing anything to make me feel comfortable.&rdquo; You are
not in the Silence.

You are not, and have not said, &ldquo;Father, what is the truth about
him?&rdquo; so that you can open up your mouth and say something
entirely different, and know that it&rsquo;s the truth about him and
that therefore your behavior needs to be entirely different from the
tirade and attack you engaged in, in belittling him.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[Raj didn&rsquo;t read these sentences: Is this
giver of salvation your friend or enemy? Choose which he is, remembering
that you will receive of him according to your choice.]

He has in him the power to forgive your sins, as you for him. 
</div>

And remember, he&rsquo;s the only one that can forgive you your sins.
You can&rsquo;t forgive yourself yours. And you&rsquo;re you are the
only one who can forgive him his. And that is your task. And you will
only be able to do that if you engage in the holy instant, if you
abandon your right to your own awful independent thinking.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He has in him the power to forgive your sins, as
you for him. Neither can give it to himself alone. And yet your Savior
stands beside each one. 
</div>

You, standing beside your brother are the Savior that is standing beside
him.  And your brother, who is standing beside you, is your Savior.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Let him be what he is, and seek not to make of
love an enemy. 
</div>

Is this becoming utterly clear?

Now, let&rsquo;s remember something: God is all. God is omnipotent.
There is none other than God. Therefore, there is no actual opponent.
There is no actual conflict. And because that is the unalterable fact,
you are guaranteed, and all of your brothers and sisters are guaranteed
of coming into the conscious realization that you don&rsquo;t need to be
judging each other to be something less than they are and treating them
as though your perception of them is true. You are bound to become free
of that.

In other words, the very nature of Being, the very nature of the
movement of God guarantees the success of overcoming the Obstacles to
Peace as well as the manifestations of them, such as war, jealousy,
hate, mistreatment, and so on.

Creation is made to work the way God is Making it, the way the divine
intelligence is Being it, right now.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Behold your Friend, the Christ Who stands beside
you. 
</div>

&hellip; who happens to look like a police officer who doesn&rsquo;t
obey the law, who looks like a family member who isn&rsquo;t behaving
like a family member.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Behold your Friend, the Christ Who stands beside
you. 
</div>

Be willing to see your brother as That, just as you find yourself
willing to consider the possibility that in actuality you are neither
behind the point of perfection nor advancing toward it. You are there.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
How holy and how beautiful He is! 
</div>

&hellip; your Brother who is the Christ, just as how beautiful you are
to Him as the Christ that you Are.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You thought He sinned because you cast the veil
of sin upon Him to hide His loveliness. 
</div>

And the word &ldquo;Him&rdquo; and the word &ldquo;His&rdquo; are
capitalized. That means the Christ that He is, the Christ that you Are
at the point of perfection where each of you is right now, but refusing
to believe it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet still He holds forgiveness out to you, to
share His holiness. This "enemy," this "stranger" still offers you
salvation as His Friend &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; speaking of the Christ of you, the one you really Are, right
now.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The "enemies" of Christ, the worshippers of sin,
know not Whom they attack. 
</div>

They don&rsquo;t know, just as you don&rsquo;t know when you&rsquo;re
attacking, that you are attacking and they are attacking the holy Son or
Daughter of God. And thus they instill a false perception and seem to
back it up with commitment and force, willfulness, strength.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is your brother, crucified by sin, and
waiting for release from pain. 
</div>

You see? You can&rsquo;t really go on and raise your eyes to look at God
without fear, without loving your brother, without being willing to see
your brother through God&rsquo;s eyes. And when you are engaging in the
holy instant, practicing the two-step, you are opening yourself up to
the realization of what your Brother and Sister really Are.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Would you not offer him forgiveness, when only
he can offer it to YOU? For his redemption he will give you yours
&hellip;
</div>

What does that mean? It means that what you give you get to keep. What
you give is conferred upon you. What you confirm in another is confirmed
in you.  That&rsquo;s what that means.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For his redemption he will give you yours as
surely as God created every living thing and loves it. And he will give
it truly, for it will be both offered and received. 
</div>

You see? Given! What you get to give, offer, you get to keep &hellip;
you receive.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is no grace of Heaven that you cannot
offer to each other, &hellip;
</div>

And that&rsquo;s what you&rsquo;re all supposed to be doing on your
Globe. And you are needing to treat each other as the divine one&rsquo;s
that you Are, and educate each other in that awareness, rather than
trying to prove that each other is flawed and must pay a penalty for it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is no grace of Heaven that you cannot
offer to each other, and receive from your most holy Friend. 
</div>

In other words, your flesh and blood brother and sister. You must be
willing to see your Brother and Sister with the same assessment of Their
Holiness that you are willing to give to yourself, as a process of your
Atonement&mdash;as a part of the process of overcoming and abandoning
the Obstacles to Peace.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Let him withhold it not, for by receiving it you
offer it to him. 
</div>

&ldquo;Oh, I can&rsquo;t be bothered with him! I&rsquo;ve got to Wake
up! I&rsquo;ve got to Wake up!  I&rsquo;ve got to give my attention to
looking at God without fearing Him.&rdquo;

I&rsquo;m going to tell you something. Find at least one brother or
sister whom you are willing not to determine to be a distraction from
your holy quest to look at God without fear, and ask God for the clarity
and the awareness of truth about that brother or sister, because
that&rsquo;s an essential part of the process.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Redemption has been given you to give each
other, and thus receive it. 
</div>

You see? Oh, no, you&rsquo;re not gonna be able to look at God without
fear and then receive it from God&mdash;one on one, privately. Not the
way it works.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Redemption has been given you to give each
other, and thus receive it. Whom you forgive is free, and what you give
you share. Forgive the sins your brother thinks he has committed, and
all the guilt you think you see in him. 
</div>

You can&rsquo;t walk into the presence of God to look at Him without
fear with a grudge up your sleeve against a brother. That&rsquo;s not
honest. That&rsquo;s conflicted. It doesn&rsquo;t work. It doesn&rsquo;t
fit.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Here is the holy place of resurrection, to which
we come again; to which we will return until redemption is accomplished
and RECEIVED. 
</div>

Wow, if you are experiencing a disease that has caused a portion of your
body to deteriorate so that it is not fully present, you don&rsquo;t ask
for the ability to be comfortable and not die from it. You ask for
transformation, regeneration, redemption &hellip; redemption!

Now, if you deserve redemption because you believe you are the holy Son
or Daughter of God, then certainly your brother and sister do also, and
it behooves you to extend that to them willingly.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Here is the holy place of resurrection, to which
we come again; to which we will return until redemption is accomplished
and RECEIVED. 
</div>

In other words, redemption is the body whole again, and redemption is
brothers in harmony with each other&mdash;no longer fighting, no longer
untrustworthy, no longer dangerous&mdash;because someone has taken the
time to treat him or her as though he or she is holy, and has been
willing to take the time to present the ideas and the education
necessary to make the truth viable and acceptable and reasonable, even
though it is so different from what everyone has been conditioned to
feel and believe.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Think who your brother is, before you would
condemn him. 
</div>

I think of who you Are, you holy Son and Daughter and God. And because I
do, I recognize your holiness and I treat you as though you are holy.
And I tell you to rethink your concepts of yourself and abandon what
doesn&rsquo;t fit your holiness, so that you will not punish yourself
through mean-spirited, self attack, and might extend to yourself the
Love that the Holy Spirit and I and the Father are constantly enveloping
you in.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And offer thanks to God that he is holy,
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your brother &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and has been given the gift of holiness
for YOU. Join him &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your brother &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; in gladness, and remove all trace of
guilt from his disturbed and tortured mind. 
</div>

Educate him! Speak &hellip; and do not speak that which condemns or
insinuates fault or short-comings or unacceptabilities.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Help him to lift the heavy burden of sin you
laid upon him and he accepted as his own, and toss it lightly and with
happy laughter away from him. 
</div>

That&rsquo;s what all of this is about. This is what the overcoming of
the Obstacles to Peace is about.

I said last week, that when you do go into the Silence, and when you do
silence the thinking, the first thing you notice is that everything is
at peace&mdash;you are, but not just you. Nothing that is going on
arouses fear or anger or anything other than peace in you. And you see
it anew. This is what you need to anchor yourself in so that you might
share the truth of it with your brothers and sisters who are not at
peace.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Help him to lift the heavy burden of sin you
laid upon him and he accepted as his own, and toss it lightly and with
happy laughter away from him. Press it not like thorns against his brow,
nor nail him to it unredeemed and hopeless. 
</div>

Before you raise your eyes to look at God without fear &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Give each other faith, for faith and hope and
mercy are yours to give. 
</div>

Now, let&rsquo;s be clear. The reason they are yours to give is because,
if you&rsquo;ve practice the holy instant after having silenced your
thinking and have asked to know what the truth is here, it is revealed
to you by the Holy Spirit&mdash;speaking for the Father&mdash;to reveal
the Father to you &hellip; and you have It to give.  That&rsquo;s the
way it works.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Into the hands that give the gift is given.
</div>

What you give you get to keep&mdash;that&rsquo;s the way you
&ldquo;have.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Look on your brother, and see in him the gift of
God you would receive. 
</div>

You certainly want it for yourself. That&rsquo;s why you&rsquo;re
endeavoring to practice the holy instant. That&rsquo;s why you are
willing to consider abandoning this right you think you have to
determine what everything is and to be successfully independent.
That&rsquo;s the whole reason.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is almost Easter, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; at the time this was written.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is almost Easter, the time of resurrection.
Let us give redemption to each other and SHARE in it, that we may rise
as one in resurrection, and not separate in death. Behold the gift of
freedom that I gave the Holy Spirit for BOTH of you. And be you free
together, as you offer to the Holy Spirit this same gift. 
</div>

You see? This is the practicality of what this is all about.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And giving it receive it of Him in return for
what you gave. He leadeth you and me together, that we might meet here
in this holy place, and make the same decision. 
</div>

Who is that he? The Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; leadeth you and me together, that we
might meet here in this holy place, and make the same decision. 
</div>

To overcome The Fear of God brings peace on Earth, good will toward men.
And that&rsquo;s part of the redemption and resurrection.

I love you all and I look forward to being with you next time.

[^1]: T19.10 Obstacles to Peace; The Fear of God

