---
title: Jun 28, 2015
ref: T19.11 The Lifting of the Veil
alink: "/acim/text/19/chap1911/"
---

Good afternoon. And welcome to everyone who’s joining us on the
Internet.

Overcoming the *Obstacles to Peace* &hellip; so that we might arrive at
a point where we can be defenseless with our brothers and sisters and,
in the love that arises out of that defenselessness, we can turn to the
Father to ask for His Perspective of our brother, our sister and
ourselves, and thus bring everything back into a unity.

Now, when we ended up last time, we read &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is almost Easter, the time of
resurrection.[^1]
</div> 

And of course, that was at the time this was being dictated to Helen.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Let us give redemption to each
other and SHARE in it, that we may rise as one in resurrection and not
separate in death. 
</div> 

This is the goal. This is the end of the *journey without distance*.
This is the reason for the journey.

The point is, to be able to look at your brother or any aspect of
Creation without defense, without fear, without judgment &hellip; *with
unconditional love*.

This is the call. This is the call in your daily life. This is the call
every moment, because in every moment you are in relationship with
Creation. Your attention may be specifically on one thing, or one person
or one event. But it is an experience of relationship—a relationship
that needs to be able to be clear of everything impure, everything not
in harmony with God’s Creation.

Everything where? In your mind, because “out there” there is nothing out
of place. The correction is called for in your mind.

All four of the Obstacles to Peace are aspects or concepts in your mind
which color everything that you are aware of. And when the Obstacles to
Peace are overcome, are seen for what they are, and abandoned because of
their uselessness, your true Vision—the undistorted conscious experience
of Creation—becomes yours because the veil of your superimposed
preconceptions, imaginations have been released.

You, right now, right here, are in the middle of the Kingdom of Heaven
and you are the Sons—the holy Sons and Daughters of God. You hear me say
this to you over and over. This is my greatest Gift to you, to reveal to
you and to reinforce in your mind the truth about you that it’s hard for
you to believe and accept and embrace and let in, so that nothing else
is presenting itself right there where you are.

This is a Gift. It is THE Gift that is transforming, and will lift you
and support you in your claiming of your divine Birthright.

Without my doing this, you would be lost. And I am setting the example
because this is exactly what you need to be giving to each other, so
that life on earth ceases to be what is called “the human condition” and
becomes the divine condition of Realty without your having to go
anywhere or get beyond any thing—any aspect of Creation.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Behold the gift of freedom that I
gave the Holy Spirit for BOTH of you. 
</div> 

You and your brother, you and your sister.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And be you free together, as you
offer to the Holy Spirit this same gift. And giving it receive it of Him
in return for what you gave. He leadeth you and me together, that we
might meet here in this holy place, and make the same decision. 
</div> 

In this holy place of realization, in this holy place of conscious
awareness where the undistorted Perspective of Mind that is God’s
Perspective, is not only available to you but is now being experienced
by you because you’re not choosing to be smaller—a part of that which
has a right to be creative in your own imaginative way without the
attempt to be something on your own which would have to be something
tiny in the face of all of Creation—instead of claiming that, your
release of it is your embrace of the whole and the conscious experience
of it.

Your life here and now on earth is supposed to be pure fulfillment. And
the only reason it isn’t, is because you hold something against parts of
it. You hold something against a brother or sister, you hold something
against a society, you hold something against a prevailing weather
system. You see?  And this is what you have to abandon.

We’re now continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Free your brother here, &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; in this place of awareness.  In other words, in your mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Free your brother here, as I freed
you. 
</div> 

And as I’m freeing you right now.

At the time of the crucifixion, when I was being judged and condemned
and crucified, I didn’t forget who you were. I didn’t forget who my
Brothers were—that they were my Brothers. That we had the same Father,
we had the same inheritance or Birthright in spite of what everyone
thought they were.

The lack of condemnation on my part, the spotless holiness with which I
regarded every single one playing out this imaginative drama, held them
guiltless.

Because you cannot kill the Son of God, the Son of God was not killed.
And that’s why there was a Resurrection, to break the concept that death
was permanent and constituted an end. And thus, those who judged me
worthy of being crucified and those who crucified me, could not be held
accountable—guilty of anything—because they could not do what they
imaginatively believed they were doing.

You see, your task is to find the way to look at your brother and hold
him guiltless, so that there is no condemnation for him to overcome the
guilt of.  And in that guiltlessness—that regard which you embrace your
brother in, or your sister—that causes your brother or sister to be able
to relax and feel his or her peace and embrace potential, we will say,
beyond that one’s present concept of what is possible in terms of his
holiness—his divinity—his excellence.

There isn’t going to be peace on earth until each one of you dares to be
the Christ and looks upon his brother with the clarity of that brother’s
divinity and treats that one on the basis of that divinity. In other
words, with respect, with love. Not just smoochy, cloud-nine cotton
candy love, but love that arises out of the clear recognition of God
right there where that brother is &hellip; and God right there where you
are.

This is far different from your present concept. But I am illuminating
it to you so that you might recognize that there is a contrast, a
difference, something new that you can embrace or desire to have the
experience of, instead of simply settling for the present concept you
have of yourself and suffering with it.

It is very important for me to tell you of your holiness right now, not
after you die, not off in the future as something you may someday
finally deserve.  It is important for you to know it now. And to put it
very simply, your job is to present that same fact and acknowledgement
to your brothers and sisters, so that the world can begin to change,
because individuals with a dawning awareness of their divinity, are
willing to abandon self-protection, jealousy, doubt, anger,
mean-spiritedness, and on and on and on.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Free your brother here, as I freed
you. Give him the self-same gift, nor look upon him with condemnation of
any kind. See him as guiltless as I look on you, and overlook the sins
he thinks he sees within himself. Offer each other freedom and complete
release from sin, here in the garden of seeming agony and death. 
</div> 

That’s figurative speaking for “the human condition.” You daily live in
an equivalent of the garden of agony and death—the Garden of
Gethsemane.[^2]

But you don’t have to remain here. Because you don’t have to embrace the
faulty misperceptions of the Kingdom of Heaven that cause it to look
like a garden of agony and death. You can choose differently! And that
is the point. And you need to choose differently regarding your
fellowman, because it makes a difference.

It makes a difference for me to inform you and remind you and not let
you forget that you are, at this very moment, the holy Son or Daughter
of God—you really are. And your Birthright as the Son or Daughter of God
is yours to take hold of at any moment. But in order to take hold of it,
you will have to abandon the Obstacles to Peace.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
So will we prepare together the way
unto the resurrection of God's Son, and let him rise again to glad
remembrance of his Father, Who knows no sin, no death, but only life
eternal. 
</div> 

Now, I know each and every one of you have in your life, circumstances
or individuals where there is strife—unyielding strife. And it can be so
distressing, that for the sake of self-protection, you feel justified in
being angered, experiencing righteous indignation, and enough reason to
not forgive, to not change your absolute negative perception. That’s
what forgiveness is.  It’s you abandoning your bad thinking about
another, or about a situation or about a thing.

You, in your anger, absolutely block your capacity to experience the
fact that you are the holy Son or Daughter of God. And that is too great
a cost. It doesn’t matter at all whether your brother deserves or
doesn’t deserve it. Or whether your brother changes or doesn’t change.
What matters is, whether you are blocking your experience of your
holiness. Because I promise you, if you can’t experience your holiness,
you will not be able to recognize it in your brother nor will you find
the willingness to find it in your brother.

And that’s simply not intelligent.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Together, &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; meaning, once we make this decision together to not operate on
the basis of the Obstacles to Peace &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; we will disappear into the
Presence beyond the veil, &hellip;
</div> 

Now, let’s be careful here. Because we’re not talking about a veil
hanging somewhere in three-dimensional space that will lift, that’s
hanging between you and Reality, meaning you as a body standing there
with eyes looking at three-dimensional space. No, the veils are
preoccupations, distractions in your mind that keep you from giving your
attention where Reality is present to be experienced.

The veils are mental distractions. They’re not hanging between you and
anything. They’re simply invitations for you to look at something that
isn’t real and believe that it’s real and thus be involved in a fantasy.

To abandon successfully the Obstacles to Peace is to let go of the
distractions. In other words, to practice the holy instant—to become
still and ask, “Father,” or “Holy Spirit, what is the truth beyond the
Obstacles to Peace that are distracting me from experiencing Reality
here and now? What is the Reality here and now? Help me experience it.”

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Together we will disappear into the
Presence beyond the veil, not to be lost but FOUND; not to be seen but
KNOWN. 
</div> 

You will find yourself Knowing everything—all of Creation—Knowing your
brothers and sisters. Knowing the beetle and the blade of grass and a
star. Knowing it for what it divinely is. And Knowing yourself as that
which embraces it all because you’re that Mind which is the Mind of God
seeing all that is and Knowing that God is its Source.

Again:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Together we will disappear into the
Presence beyond the veil, &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; what does that mean, *we will disappearing*? Oh-h &hellip; no,
we’re not talking about *disappearing*. We’re talking about the concepts
and beliefs about what you are and what your brother and sister are.
*Those concepts will disappear.* You will not see or believe yourself to
be what you had believed before. And your brother and sister and the
beetle and the blade of grass and the star will all register with you as
what they divinely Are. And you will relate to them from within the
framework of what I’m going to call, “mental holiness”—we could say,
“mental wholeness.” You see?

And so what you were in your belief and the way everything appeared to
you in your belief, including you and me will disappear. And we as what
we really Are, will register instead.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; we will disappear into the
Presence &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; the Presence of what? The Presence of God. The Presence of the
movement of God which is infinite Creation.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; we will disappear into the
Presence &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; the Oneness the Allness &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; beyond the veil, not to be
lost but FOUND; not to be seen but KNOWN. And knowing, nothing in the
plan God has established for salvation will be left undone. This is the
journey's purpose, &hellip;
</div>

And you will look upon your brothers and sisters and world and universe,
and universe of universes and everything beyond. And you will be glad.
You will be filled with joy. And joy will exude from you and will be
delivered infinitely. And you will experience the infinite deliverance
of joy from all other aspects of Creation. The Love with which you love
all, you will find yourself loved by.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[Raj did not read the end of that
sentence &hellip; without which IS the journey meaningless.] Here is the
peace of God, given to you eternally by Him. 
</div> 

Something which had been present all along, but because you did not
believe that you were a holy Son or Daughter of God, and believed
instead that you were a physical mortal, you missed, you didn’t
experience. And you weren’t even curious to see, because you were so
sure you knew what everything was and how it worked.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Here is the peace of God, given to
you eternally by Him. Here is the rest and quiet that you seek, the
reason for the journey from its beginning. 
</div> 

You see? The whole point is, to arrive at the place where Creation is
what you’re experiencing with God’s Perspective, because that’s your
Birthright.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Heaven is the gift you owe each
other, &hellip;
</div> 

You see? The divine ones that you Are owe each other the experience of
Heaven, the experience of a holy Son or Daughter of God. It isn’t as
though it’s a debt, but it’s the incredible truth that can only spill
out of you and bless everyone. You owe it to each other, because nothing
else can happen except the extension of the gift of the joy of your
holiness given to your brothers and sisters in acknowledgement of
theirs.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Heaven is the gift you owe each
other, the debt of gratitude you offer to the Son of God in thanks for
what he is, and what his Father created him to be. 
</div> 

But mind you, right now you have to be willing to give this gift to the
bastard sitting next to you, or across the room, or down the street
who’s just waiting for you to drive by so he can shoot at you.

In other words, right now you seem to be in the Garden of Gethsemane,
you seem to be in the human condition. There’s no other place for you to
be the Presence of Love. And the fact that this seems to be your
environment is a dominant call for that Love to be expressed that can
heal and transform it.  And so, you do not have the luxury of being able
to say, “I don’t deserve to have to deal with this.” Why not deal with
it? Why not discover your holiness that allows you to be able to look at
your brother and recognize his and make the gift of that clarity to him,
so that he might discover that he doesn’t have to behave in the way he’s
committed to behave, because you, for one, are no longer requiring it of
him and are opening a door to a new avenue.

Now, I need to make something else clear. Not everyone has to Wake up in
order for you to Wake up. You do not have to transform everyone’s
miserable mindsets before you can Wake up, before you can experience the
Atonement.

I am Awake. The majority of the Brotherhood is Awake. Your Guides are
Awake.  The fact that you are not, doesn’t mean that your Guide can’t be
Awake.  Therefore, you, even though you’re obligated to be the
transforming Presence for everyone, do not have to wait until everyone
Awakens before you can Wake up. Therefore, this is not an overwhelming
task. But you do have to find one or more who has a willingness to be
transformed—a willingness to learn, a desire to be free of being a
miserable mortal. And you have to let that brother or those brothers and
sisters be your reason for choosing to engage in the holy instant, so
that you might be the Presence of the Christ that is the agent for
change in that brother’s or sister’s life.

I’ve said before, that I do not look for those who are in the soundest,
deepest sleep, and challenge their sleep by vigorously shaking them,
trying to Wake them up. Because I will tell you, anyone who is deeply
committed to sleep will use any distraction from it as a justification
for going further into sleep.  And so, I do not waste my time, and you
cannot afford to waste your time on what will not work. And give your
attention where there is willingness. Give your attention and your
perseverance and your commitment to those who are rousing, and tell them
the truth because you see it. And you will not react to their ignorance,
because you know it isn’t a threat to you and therefore, you don’t need
to react to it, but can be the clear presence of mind that is Peace and
Love.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Think carefully how you would look
upon the giver of this gift, for as you look on him, so will the gift
itself appear to be. 
</div> 

If you look on your brother as a bastard, then no matter what he does
you will see the effect of a bastard’s mentality, even though that has
been your definition which you have applied to him. And in your
mean-spirited, small-mindedness, you block your capacity to be the
Presence of the Christ Consciousness that recognizes your brother’s
divinity while he is not recognizing it. And your recognition assures
you that you cannot be harmed by this Christed one. And you’re giving
your attention to the Christed one that he is, will reach him.

Again, be clear on this. It will register with him if he is already
arousing himself. If he isn’t, then you will be engaged in spiritual
manipulation, high-minded folly, and you will suffer for it, because you
are attempting willfully to do what you know ought to work. Of course,
that is a poor use of the word “know,” because it’s pure imagination.
You can dare to act when in the practice of the holy instant—you see and
feel the revelation of what to do.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[Raj did not read this sentence: As
he is seen as either the giver of guilt or of salvation, so will his
offering be seen, and so received.] The crucified give pain because they
are in pain. 
</div> 

So be careful not to correct a brother when you are one of the crucified
who is in pain, because your help will be self-righteous and painful to
your brother and will absolutely block any opportunity for
transformation to occur.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
But the redeemed give joy because
they have been HEALED of pain. 
</div> 

You see? You want to get past the Obstacles to Peace so that you may be
healed of pain and be redeemed, and as a result, give joy that your
brother or sister will be blessed by. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Everyone gives as he receives, but
he must choose what it will BE that he receives. 
</div> 

Whew! Are you willing to receive crucifixion? Are you willing to listen
to the voice for fear that whispers and speaks in your mind and
distracts you into malicious thoughts and attitudes which hurt you? Is
that what you’re going to choose to receive? Or are you going to silence
that by withdrawing your attention, and saying, “Father, Holy Spirit,
what is the truth here? &hellip; what is the truth?”

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Everyone gives as he receives, but
he must choose what it will BE that he receives. And he will recognize
his choice by what he gives, and what is given him. 
</div> 

And how often do you find that what you’ve given—in other words, after
the fact—how much of the time do you find that what you’ve given has
been sarcasm, even just in your mind as a mental response to someone
else’s behavior or words? How much of it is spontaneous criticism? How
much of your day is spent in a bad attitude? That’s more likely what you
would call it.

But you will recognize what you’ve chosen to receive by what you give.
And if you’re giving criticism and negativity, you know the voice you’ve
been listening to. And you can use that, and you must use that as the
sign calling for [chuckling] a different way to look at this.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[You] will recognize his choice by
what he gives, and what is given him. Nor is it given anything in hell
or Heaven to interfere with his decision. 
</div> 

Whose decision? Your decision! Nothing is given anything in hell or
Heaven to interfere with your decision as to the voice you are going to
choose to listen to. Nothing can override that! You are in one hundred
percent complete control.

I am telling you, you holy Sons and Daughters of God that you are
divine. My voice, the words you’re hearing are the truth, and they are
the truth for you to receive and they are the truth for you to give to
each other. The moment there is a willingness on the part of your
brothers to receive, give it!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You came this far because the
journey WAS your choice. 
</div> 

Well, if &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; You came this far because
the journey WAS your choice &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; your brothers and sisters will go as far as they’ve gone
because the journey was their choice. You can’t choose for them. But you
can recognize where they are and support them further, IF you are not
listening to the voice for fear.

You came this far, your brothers and sisters came this far, because the
journey was your choice, their choice.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And no-one undertakes to do what he
believes is meaningless. 
</div> 

So you made this choice because you felt it was meaningful. And in that
you lent your conviction and commitment to the journey. And that is
important.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What you had faith in &hellip;
</div> 

And in order to do this you had to have had faith in the Holy Spirit or
the Father.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What you had faith in still is
faithful, and watches over you in faith so gentle yet so strong that it
would lift you far BEYOND the veil, &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; the veil? The veil is constituted of the four Obstacles to
Peace.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; it would lift you far
BEYOND the veil, and place the Son of God &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; You &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; safely within the sure
protection of his Father. Here is the only purpose that gives this world
and the long journey through this world whatever meaning lies in them.
</div> 

What does that mean &hellip; *this world*? This world, the Kingdom of
Heaven that is colored by your misperceptions of it. So there is value
found scattered among your misperceptions and the value there is what’s
real there that can inspire you beyond your misperceptions. And that’s
the only value they have.

But the Kingdom of Heaven that you’re in the middle of, experiencing
misperceptions of, that remains eternally constant.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Beyond this, &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; transition point &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; they &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; the false perceptions mixed in with true experiences. The false
perceptions &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; Beyond this, they ARE
meaningless. You stand together, still without conviction they HAVE a
purpose. 
</div> 

You see? You have a conviction that when you’re looking out at the world
and universe, you have a conviction that it’s not the Kingdom of Heaven,
and therefore, doesn’t have purpose—Real purpose.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You stand together, still without
conviction they HAVE a purpose. Yet it is given you to see this purpose
in your holy Friend, and recognize it is your own. 
</div> 

Do you see what that means? It means that your capacity to experience
the transfer value of realization is available to you in your
relationship with your brother or sister—your holy friend whom you
didn’t think was holy and whom your friend didn’t think he was holy. But
in your willingness and commitment to find and confirm the divinity of
each other, you provide the one single element that will allow the
transfer value to register with you, wherein the world and universe
registers with you as the Kingdom of Heaven and you are Home.

You can see from this how essential and important your relationship with
your brother and sister is, and your relying upon each other to be that
which lifts you out of the “human condition,” the misery, the garden of
agony.

Value your brother no matter how awful you are determining him to be,
and no matter how awful he is determining himself to be. And work
diligently and with commitment with those brothers and sisters who are
arousing themselves and are willing to receive. In this way, what you
give &hellip; what is received, you get to keep. Their receipt of your
gift confirms what is true of you. And the blessing is complete.

That’s what it’s all about.

I love you, you holy Sons and Daughters of God right now. And I look
forward to being with you next time.

[^1]: T19.11 The Lifting of the Veil
[^2]: Mathew 26:36

