---
title: Jul 5, 2015
ref: T20 The Promise of the Resurrection
alink: "/acim/text/20/chap2000/"
---

Good Afternoon. And welcome to everyone joining us on the Internet.

We have a new Chapter:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Chapter Twenty: *The Promise of The Resurrection*[^1]
</div> 

And it begins with these words:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is Palm Sunday, &hellip;
</div> 

Well, of course we’re not reading this in sync with the real Palm Sunday. It
was Palm Sunday when I was dictating this to Helen. But you have an
interesting correlative circumstance occurring on your globe that renders this
section that we’re going to discuss this afternoon, and provides an opportunity
to truly put into practice what we’ve been reading about overcoming the
Obstacles to Peace, rendering what the Course teaches practical today.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is Palm Sunday, the celebration of victory and the acceptance of the
truth.
</div> 

Now, you have a country on your globe that had a referendum today and they
voted “No.” They voted “not to agree.” The country of course, is Greece. And
they voted not to agree with the European Union. Greece is in financial
distress—significant distress. But you know what? They wouldn’t agree to
abandon their integrity.

They voted. They chose to stand in an acknowledgement of their worth
because the agreement they were invited to join in said, “you have lost
your worth and therefore, you must be obedient to the rules that we set
up for those who have lost their worth. And of course, the rules were
established in order for those laying down the rules not to lose money.
And that meant that the one significant element was left out, the
element of Brotherhood &hellip; the element of Brotherhood.

Now, you all know of the parable of the Shepard whose flock was missing
a member—one lost sheep.[^2]  And the Shepard left the ninety and nine
of the flock and went looking for the one lost sheep in order to bring
that one back into the fold so that wholeness was reestablished, so that
the integrity of the flock was reestablished.

Of course the Shepard could have said, “Well &hellip; if that one had
been paying attention, he wouldn’t have gotten lost, he wouldn’t have
lost site of the rest of the flock. Therefore, he deserves whatever
happens. I’m not going to go back and find him.”

Well, you get the point. The point is, that there’s one part of the
European Union that is in a bad situation—apparently lost its
footing—apparently. Not truly through neglect, but through
circumstances—circumstances governed by the almighty god of money.

Now, because they voted to stand in their integrity, even when everyone is
claiming that they have lost it, that is their victory!

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is Palm Sunday, the celebration of victory and the acceptance of the
truth. Let us not spend this holy week brooding on the crucifixion of God’s
Son, but happily in the celebration of his release.
</div> 

This coming week in Greece and in the European Union, it is a turning
point—it is a point for deciding. And the decision, if it does not
involve the overriding element of Brotherhood, if decision is not made
for the purpose of bringing all of the lambs back into the fold, then
there will be problems.  But, that’s not the purpose of the holy week.
That’s not the purpose of what has been set into motion by the
celebration of victory by the willingness of the Greek people to
acknowledge and stand firmly in integrity that they know they have, no
matter what the circumstances are. And their demand to have the results
of what happens in the coming week or weeks reflect that integrity
rather than a lack of integrity.

That is victory. That is the Vision of holiness and the promise of
Resurrection.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For Easter is the sign of peace, not pain.
</div> 

And this week from Palm Sunday to Easter Sunday is often called, “Easter
week.” And what I want to convey is that, correlatively speaking, the
globe is in an Easter week right now. And the call for Brotherhood has
been made &hellip; has been announced. And every single one of you
everywhere, is called upon to recognize the Christ and the promise of
this week and the Resurrection that is the result of abiding in one’s
integrity and disagreeing with anything other than that.

It takes courage. Whether it’s a country making a decision, or whether
it’s you standing up to a threat of a disease or accident or injury or a
failing marriage, or any other circumstance that seems inevitably to
call for or foretell of disaster, of negative consequences.

Greece has taken that stance. You, as brothers and sisters of everyone
in Greece as well as everyone in the European Union, you are called upon
to register your recognition of Brotherhood, instead of standing on
mutually agreed upon principles that haven’t arisen out of Love.

And so, I am talking about this today because what we happen to be
reading tonight is pertinent to it and because it is a significant and
urgent call for everyone to participate in this week and the
circumstances in the European Union to look for the Christ, to see the
Christ, to confirm the Christ, so that Resurrection is the inevitable
outcome for everyone, not just Greece but for the European Union and for
the rest of the world. Because I promise you, you’re all in one boat and
nothing can go on in Europe that doesn’t affect you—that you have no
part in.

And so let’s practice abandoning the obstacles of peace by bringing into
play the element of Brotherhood and taking your place in that
Brotherhood actively by doing the two-step, by going into the Silence
and by saying, “Father,” or “Holy Spirit, what is the truth here? What
is the Answer that illuminates the divine wholeness of everyone—that
blesses everyone, puts no one at a disadvantage and requires no one to
accept as a premise that they’re at a disadvantage because of their
poverty of wealth, or poverty of mind or poverty of faith.”

Acknowledging poverty does not generate abundance. Recognizing that
poverty exists and invalidating it is what promotes abundance, because
there’s no mutual agreement to bind one to something which isn’t true.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
A slain Christ has no meaning.
</div> 

If I had been crucified and simply died, it would’ve had no meaning. If
Greece is crucified and dies, it has no meaning for Greece or for the
European Union or for any of the rest of you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
A slain Christ has no meaning.
</div> 

So withdraw your attention from anything that would promote or
substantiate good reason &hellip; ha-ha&hellip; for having a slain
Christ, for Greece being abandoned and not brought back and kept in the
flock.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
A slain Christ has no meaning. But a RISEN Christ becomes the symbol of the Son
of God’s forgiveness on himself; &hellip;
</div> 

You know what? Today Greece became the symbol of the Son of God’s
forgiveness on Himself. They did not hold themselves to &hellip; (whew!)
to an incorrect and destructive definition of themselves. In the
abandonment of that &hellip; in the unwillingness to embrace it, they
forgave themselves.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
A slain Christ has no meaning. But a RISEN Christ becomes the symbol of the Son
of God’s forgiveness on himself; the sign he looks upon himself as healed and
whole.
</div> 

In other words, Greece, today said, “We are neither behind the point of
perfection nor advancing toward it. We are at that point and we insist upon
understanding ourselves therefrom and we insist upon everyone else
understanding us therefrom and dealing with us on that basis.” You see?

The first sub-heading in this chapter is called:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*Holy Week*
</div> 

It’s the week we’re in with a different Christ. But the same dynamics.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This week begins with palms &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; it began today in Greece’s decision. It’s the equivalent of the week
beginning with palms. Those in Greece may not all feel that they are behaving
victoriously. But they are.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This week begins with palms and ends with lilies, &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; that’s the promise of this week for Greece and for the European Union.
Because remember, that what blesses Greece blesses the European Union and
strengthens it when all one-hundred of the sheep are in the flock, the flock is
whole. It is not at a disadvantage, it is nothing less than what it was
created to be.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Let no dark sign of crucifixion intervene between the journey and its purpose;
&hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; the journey being, coming back into Jerusalem triumphantly &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; between the acceptance of the truth and its expression.
</div> 

So, you, through the use of memory, can begin holy week remembering the
crucifixion and not the Resurrection and feeling bad and rehearsing the steps
leading up to the horrible act of crucifixion and all that everyone has agreed
it means.

But &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Let no dark sign of crucifixion intervene between the journey and its purpose;
between the acceptance of the truth and its expression.
</div> 

As you go through this week, do not look at the news and assume the worst for
Greece, or justify whatever negative might happen. Don’t do it! Watch how you
are using your thoughts and see whether your thoughts lead to the crucifixion
of the Son of God or the “hundredth sheep.”

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This week we celebrate life, not death.
</div> 

That is what this week is about in Europe. It’s a week of celebrating life
because life has been set into motion by the strength and courage of the Greek
people who have said, “We have integrity and we’re acknowledging it and we’re
standing with it and we require everyone else to deal with us in light of our
integrity as we resolve the problem!”

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This week we celebrate life, not death. And we honor the perfect purity of the
Son of God, and not his sins.
</div> 

And of course, every one of your brothers and sisters is the Son of God. And
every brother and sister who is in Greece is your Brother and Sister whose
Father is God, whose divinity is equal. And if one is at a disadvantage, then
another who seems to be at great advantage will naturally support the one that
is apparently at a disadvantage and get rid of the disadvantage and demonstrate
Brotherhood. That’s what this is about.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Offer each other the gift of lilies, not the crown of thorns; &hellip;
</div> 

You see? Greece was offered a crown of thorns and they said, “No thank you.
There is another way to look at this, and we want everyone to take advantage of
the opportunity to look at it a different way. Take away the thorns. We don’t
accept the offer.”

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Offer each other the gift of lilies, not the crown of thorns; the gift of love
and not the "gift" &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; which is no gift &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; of fear. You stand beside each other, thorns in one hand and
lilies in the other, uncertain which to give. 
</div> 

Mind you, this applies equally to those in Greece, but it also applies equally
to those in the European Union.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You stand beside each other, thorns in one hand and lilies in the other,
&hellip;
</div> 

So you say, “Wow, I get it! I need to give lilies to those in Greece.”
But then part of you will say, “Well then, I must offer the gift of
thorns to the European Union, because someone’s wrong and someone has to
pay for it &hellip; the penalty that is.” So you must make sure that
you’re not gifting thorns to any of the members of the European Union,
whether it’s the one lost member or the other ninety and nine.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Join now with me and throw away the thorns, offering the lilies to replace
them.
</div> 

These words so specifically address what needs to be addressed this week on
your Globe, that I am very grateful to be able to share it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This Easter, &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; this Easter week, which will end in Resurrection, &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; I would have the gift of your forgiveness offered by you to me,
&hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; and likewise, this Easter, your brothers and sisters in Greece and in the
European Union, would have the gift of your forgiveness offered by you to them.
That’s the call! And that is why I am bringing it up.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; I would have the gift of your forgiveness offered by you to me,
and returned by me to you. 
</div> 

Your brothers in the European Union would like your forgiveness offered
to them, so that they might return it to you, and so that they might
return it to each other and be blessed through the events that
transpire, rather than hurt and creating that which calls for further
love and correction and a more significant practice of Brotherhood.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
We CANNOT be united in crucifixion and in death.
</div> 

And obviously the European Union and Greece cannot be united in penalty and in
the breakup of the Union.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Nor can the resurrection be complete till your forgiveness rests on Christ
along with mine.
</div> 

Your forgiveness needs to rest upon whatever fault you might feel the Greeks
engaged in, or whatever fault the European Union might be engaged in.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the resurrection [cannot] be complete till your forgiveness
rests on Christ along with mine. A week is short, and yet this holy week
&hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; literally, the next seven days in July in the year 2015.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; this holy week is the symbol of the whole journey the Son of
God has undertaken. 
</div> 

Undertaken today by the vote they made that honored themselves and their
integrity.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He started with the sign of victory, &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; meaning Jesus, me. But Greece started with the &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
the sign of victory, the promise of the resurrection, already given him.
</div> 

Given him because it abided in the recognition of worth that gave them the
strength to say, “No!”

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Let him not wander into the temptation of crucifixion, and delay him there.
</div> 

[Chuckling] And I would say, “Don’t push him” &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; into the temptation of crucifixion, and delay him there.
</div> 

Join your brother in his recognition of his integrity. Acknowledge it,
and confirm it and stand shoulder to shoulder, or mind to mind, if I can
put it that way, confirming his integrity because you see yours embodied
in his.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Help him to go in peace beyond it, &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; the temptation of crucifixion. They need support. And also
those governing the European Union need support in having the Vision
that resolves the situation while blessing all of the participants, not
just the few at the expense of one.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Help him to go in peace beyond it, [the temptation of crucifixion] with the
light of his own innocence lighting his way to his redemption and release.
</div> 

The light of his own innocence shown more brightly today because of the
commitment with which the Greek people declared it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Hold him not back with thorns and nails, &hellip;
</div> 

Don’t threaten him. Don’t frighten him. Don’t do things to get him to
change his mind and abandon his recognition of his integrity just so
that financial stability for the rich can be had. Financial stability
can be had without threatening anyone in the realm of economics,
although it might cost some part of their wealth, in order to make the
Brotherhood, in order to make the Union whole. But it will only make it
whole if it is an expression of Love.

Those governing the European Union need support in being able to feel
the love that will arise to promote the correction that blesses all
alike. And that’s your task to support. That’s your part in the
Brotherhood.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Hold him not back with thorns and nails, when his redemption is so near.
</div> 

No, hell, I know &hellip; there are many who say, “Oh, there redemption
isn’t near. They’re so far down the hole they will probably never get
out of it!” Well, what a prophecy. What a thing to put in the air to
influence and affect the minds of others and keep them from realizing
that inspiration is at the threshold of their mind—the inspiration
necessary to provide answers that bless everyone and release everyone
from the experience of austerity.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Hold him not back with thorns and nails, when his redemption is so near.
But let the whiteness of your shining gift of lilies speed him on his
way to &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; what? &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; to resurrection.
</div> 

But remember, what you give you get to keep. What the European Union
gives to Greece it gets to keep. If they give a requirement of austerity
they get to keep austerity. If they give the gift of Love and of answers
that quickly resolve the problem, the European Union and those in it are
relieved of the penalties of the previous austerity. They get to keep it
too. They get to have it too.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you see glimpses of the face of Christ behind the veil, looking
between the snow white petals of the lilies you have received and given
as your gift, &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; what?&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you will behold each other’s face and RECOGNIZE it.
</div> 

You’ll see the Christ in them, they’ll see the Christ in you and you will both
recognize your Brotherhood as Christ. You, the Greeks, the European
Union, you’re all part of the whole flock.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I was a stranger and you took me in, not knowing who I was.
</div> 

You see? Many are looking at Greece and saying, “We don’t know you!
[Chuckling] You’re certainly not the Christ, are you &hellip; you’re a
poor example of humanity. You can’t possibly be the Sons and Daughters
of God.  I don’t recognize you. If you’re the Son or Daughter of God
[chuckling] I don’t recognize you!”

Well, get busy then in your own head, in your own mind and desire,
through the practice of the holy instant, to know what the truth is
here, so that you might experience the Son of God there, the Christ
there, so that you recognize amongst the lilies, your Brother the
Christ, which confirms your Christhood and all are blessed.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I was a stranger and you took me in, not knowing who I was. Yet for your gift
of lilies you WILL know. In your forgiveness of this stranger, &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; this &hellip; uh-h &hellip; strange group in Greece.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In your forgiveness of this stranger, alien to you and yet your ancient
Friend, lie his release and your redemption with him. 
</div> 

Greece has not always been in a state of lack. And Greece has been an ancient
Friend to many. It is not unreasonable to share the ancient Friendship now,
today, with Greece, with your Brothers and Sisters there.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The time of Easter is a time of joy, and not of mourning.
</div> 

So don’t make it a time of mourning. Don’t turn this coming week into a
process of demoralization and decay of structures of Brotherhood that
have existed for time immemorial.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Look on your risen Friend, &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; the Christ that the Holy Spirit has helped you see right there
where there was a tendency to say, “I don’t know you. I’m not going to
come and find you and bring you back into the fold.”

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Look on your risen Friend, and celebrate his holiness along with me. For
Easter is the time of YOUR salvation, along with mine.
</div> 

You celebrate Easter at a particular time of the year. But this is
Easter week. And next week is Easter week. Today is Easter day and every
day is Easter day. Every day is the day to be willing to silence human
will and the negative definitions that you apply to yourself, so that
you might in the silence turn your attention away from your pet theories
to the Father or to the Holy Spirit to gather your information from a
more reliable Source—One whose information, for lack of better words, is
transformational, healing and redeeming, bringing you and your brothers
and sisters back into the true apprehension of who and what you all Are.

You need the support you will get by means of the support you give to
the people of Greece and those running the European Union. The support
you give to them of their capacity to recognize truth because they care
to Love while they’re looking for the truth, and not condemn.

It’s a wonderful week, and I am encouraging every single one of you
whose hearing my voice to use this week, to use every day as an
opportunity to consciously embrace the movement of Easter week as it is
enfolding toward resurrection in the European Union and therefore in
your world. I of course, will be with you every step of the way.

I love you very much and I look forward to being with you next time.

[^1]: T20 The Promise of the Resurrection
[^2]: Luke 15:1-7

