---
title: Jul 13, 2015
ref: T20.2 Thorns and Lilies
alink: "/acim/text/20/chap2002/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who’s joining us on the Internet.

I wonder, if we really understand the meaning of the word,
“forgiveness?”

We’ve just been reading about and considering the Obstacles to Peace.
And the reason we’ve been considering them is because peace is the
threshold of Awakening. Peace is the threshold of Atonement. Peace is
the threshold of Awakening from the dream—coming back into our right
Mind, our divine Sanity.

The Fourth Obstacle was The Fear of God. And part and parcel of
overcoming the fear of God, is the experience of recognizing our
divinity. In overcoming the fear of God and being willing to be present
with Him, our divinity as His Sons and Daughters registers with us. We
are able to remember who we Are because the fear of God is gone. The
fear of the retribution of a “wrathful” God is gone, and in the peace,
the Father’s Love can register with us.

In fact, as the parable of The Prodigal Son[^1] states very clearly,
once the Prodigal begins to return Home, the Father starts out to meet
him while he’s still a long way off.

The Father’s Love is always embracing every single one of you—each one
of us.  And when we are preoccupied with the Obstacles to Peace that we
have created in our attempts to be independent, that Love begins to
register with us and embrace us—not just as an idea, but as an
experience. And that’s the key thing, an experience &hellip; what I
referred to as “Knowing” because it’s a deep thoughtless
conviction—meaning that it is not a conviction that has been arrived at
through an intellectual process of reasoning. It’s an experience from
the very depth of one’s Being as to the Truth of Him.

Now, in that realization that you are the Son or Daughter of God, you
also realize that this is true of everyone—all of your Brothers and
Sisters.

And that is Forgiveness!

Now, it’s very important to understand that you do not have to earn
forgiveness. You do not have to deserve forgiveness. You cannot make
yourself be forgiven. It is a Gift. It’s your Birthright to not be
confused and labor under the structures of the confusion.

It’s important to understand this because no matter what you’re
suffering from, no matter how specifically and intellectually and
logically you can find reasons for your misery that amount to being
your fault and therefore making you unworthy of forgiveness, forgiveness
is still your Birthright!

Forgiveness is there for you to be blessed by. And the Father does not
hold all of your mean-spirited, intellectual processes, by which you
have convicted yourself, get in His way of Loving you as His beloved Son
or Daughter in whom He is well-pleased, and then thereby, your
experiencing healing.

To employ or imagine that there are reasons that are reasonable for your
misery, and that therefore, your misery is justifiable, stands in the
way of your ability to look at the Father without fear and be blessed by
His gentle loving gaze and embrace. And yet It’s available and it is
your Birthright to be experiencing It.

Now, in the parable of The Prodigal Son, the prodigal was met, not
after he arrived at Home, but he was met along the way, and he was
given—he was gifted—with fine clothing. He was gifted with the
acknowledgement of his excellence as the Son of his Father, whose
inheritance was intact.

Now, we spoke last week about the shepherd going out and finding the one
lost sheep leaving the ninety-nine so as to bring the lost one back into
the fold. The parable makes no suggestion that upon finding the lost
sheep, the shepherd said, by his actions, “you have caused me a great
deal of difficulty and we are going back to the flock, and we are going
to go back by the most difficult way that I can find, so that you will
find no pleasure at all in this adventure.  And, in fact, on the way
back, you will have to carry me part of the way, especially in the most
difficult spots, so that you never forget to not do this again!”

No, it doesn’t say that at all, because that’s not the motive or the
attitude of the shepherd. The call is for the flock to be whole. And the
one lost sheep does not have to suffer through trials in order to become
deserving of being with the flock again—in order to experience wholeness
again.

The motive of the shepherd is love &hellip; wholeness &hellip;
completion &hellip; completeness.

Now when you overcome your fear of God and are willing to approach Him,
or you’re willing to say, “Father, tell me the truth about things,” and
you are genuinely interested and you are genuinely attentive, the Answer
is given. It flows and you receive it. And when you receive it, your
perspective changes.  And as your perspective changes, your world and
your brothers and sisters are blessed by the new perspective.

Forgiveness occurs. And that’s the call.

Now, going into the book. New subject:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*Thorns and Lilies*[^2]
</div> 

Or *The Gift of Lilies*, depending upon the edition you’re reading from.
And it says:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Look upon all the trinkets made to
hang upon the body, or to cover it, or for its use. See all the useless
things made for its eyes to see. Think on the many offerings made for
its pleasure, and remember all these were made to make seem lovely what
you hate. 
</div> 

When you don’t know that you are the holy Son or Daughter of God, you
believe that you are a body. And you treat yourself as though you’re a
body and you treat your brothers and sisters as though they are bodies.
And that is the way you control each other. That is the way you
manipulate approximations of harmony. And the very thing that you are
afraid can take away your life, becomes the bottom line, we’ll say, the
governing factor of everything that happens.

Now, when you read this:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Look upon all the trinkets made to
hang upon the body, &hellip;
</div> 

I’m sure you think of jewelry and clothing, makeup, hairstyles,
mustaches, beards. But I want to bring out something else that you adorn
the body with or put on it, and that is obligation. You put the weight
of obligation upon your shoulders and upon the shoulders of your
brothers and sisters. And of course, if you’re half-way smart, you find
a way to do it that’s palatable and that strokes the other person so
that they feel honored to carry the burden or to be obedient to you or
behave the way you like that doesn’t stretch you or burden you.

You have mutual agreements that you abide by and you hold each other to.
And you place them on these bodies that you think you are and that you
think others are.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Look upon all the trinkets &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; look upon all the obligations. Look upon all of the
guilt-producing techniques that you can lay upon a brother—a
body—someone who is certainly not the holy Son or Daughter of God and
therefore, must be the result of a “big bang” and “physical evolution,”
who is most definitely “a body.” You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[So] Look upon all [these things]
made to hang upon the body, or to cover it, or for its use. 
</div> 

And I would say, it’s beneficent or mean-spirited use.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
See all the useless things &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; all the things that have nothing to do with forgiveness.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
See all the useless things made for
its eyes to see. 
</div> 

&hellip; and believe and bow down to, and suffer from, and put up with.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Think on the many offerings made
for its pleasure, and remember all these were made to make seem lovely
what you hate. 
</div> 

Oh yeah, a happy society is one that isn’t killing itself. Creatures
like mice or rabbits or cows that move around on the surface of a globe
called, “earth” in the solar system—just one of the creatures.

What a miserable ignorance of that which is a holy Son or Daughter of
God. What an unforgiving and therefore, unforgiven experience.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Would you employ this hated thing
to draw your brother to you, and to attract his body’s eyes? Learn
&hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; learn &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you but offer him a crown
of thorns, not recognizing it for what it is, and trying to justify your
own interpretation of its value by his acceptance.  Yet still the gift
proclaims his worthlessness to you, as his acceptance and delight
acknowledges the lack of value he places on himself. 
</div> 

Now, it’s easy to apply this to your immediate experience and those
around you, but we were talking last time about something going on, on
your globe—Greece and its relationship with the European Union.

Now, I referred to this past week as the equivalent of an Easter Week.
We still haven’t had the Resurrection. We still have the gifts that
we’ve just talked about.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Learn you but offer him &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; learn that it, Greece, was offered a crown of thorns not
recognizing it for what it is. And trying to justify your own
interpretation of its value—the gift of the structures, of cost and
paying for your sins, your mistakes—like the lost sheep being given a
rugged climb and walk back home to the flock.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet still the gift proclaims his
worthlessness to you, . . 
</div> 

&hellip; the gift of all of these demands, all of this absence of
forgiveness proclaims Greece’s worthlessness to you—to the European
Union &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; as his acceptance &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; and in this case, not delight &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; acknowledges the lack of
value he &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; it &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; places on himself. 
</div> 

Itself. That will tell you, that the integrity of Greece—the integrity
of the Greek people—is still intact and is still felt. But they’re faced
with something every single one of you are faced with, and that is the
fear of being on the outside of the group.

What are you willing to sacrifice to not break the mutual agreements
that seem to give you a modicum of peace?

How many of you are unwilling to shake things up?

How many of you tell your friends of your valuing of A Course in
Miracles?

How many of you open your mouth up and share it with those whom you
think might not find it of value?

How many of you are willing to say, “I am the holy Son or Daughter of
God?”

How many of you keep your mouth shut in order to keep peace in the
group?

How many of you are sacrificing your integrity for the sake of the
family or the relationship or your place in the community?

How many of you are willing to abandon your integrity—put it on the back
shelf and not look at it too strongly because if you do it will make you
feel miserable because you are violating yourself and you can feel it?

This is the practicality of A Course in Miracles &hellip; learning this.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Gifts are not made through bodies,
if they be truly given and received. For bodies &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; in and of themselves &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; can neither offer nor
accept; hold out nor take. Only the mind can value, and only the mind
decides on what it would receive and give. And every gift it offers
depends on what it WANTS. It will adorn its chosen home &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; the body &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; most carefully, making it
ready to receive the gifts it wants by offering them to those who come
unto its chosen home, or those it would attract to it.  And there they
will exchange their gifts, offering and receiving what their minds judge
to be worthy of them. 
</div> 

And there’s just been a number of days of—a summit meeting—you might
say, in which gifts were exchanged all for the purpose of achieving what
the ones making the gift wants.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Each gift is an evaluation of the
receiver and the GIVER. No-one but sees his chosen home an altar to
himself. 
</div> 

In other words, everyone sees his chosen home as an altar to himself.
And in this frame of mind, that “himself” is a body—an effect of nature,
of evolution.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
No-one but seeks to draw to it the
worshippers of what he placed upon it, making it worthy of their
devotion. 
</div> 

And as you know, very often, because integrity isn’t recognized and
stood by, as the saying says, “the majority rules.”

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And each has set a light upon his
altar, &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; the altar to himself &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; that they may see what he
has placed upon it, and take it for their own. 
</div> 

In other words, agree &hellip; AGREE.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Here is the value that you lay upon
your brother and on yourself. Here is your gift to BOTH; your judgment
on the Son of God for what he is. Forget not that it is your Saviour to
whom the gift is offered. 
</div> 

The gift that Greece gives to the European Union is given to its Savior.
But the gift given by the members of the European Union to Greece is
given to their Savior. But of course, when the altar is an altar to
oneself, there is no Savior and there is no consideration of another.
And there is therefore, no love. There is therefore, no Brotherhood.

This is very important.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Offer him thorns and YOU are
crucified. Offer him lilies and it is YOURSELF you free.

I have great need for lilies, for the Son of God has not forgiven me.
</div> 

The Sons of God who still think they’re mortals, who still think they’re
bodies, who still think they have to manipulate each other through
mutual agreement—through thorns. And &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; can I offer him &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; the one who hasn’t forgiven me &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; can I offer him
forgiveness, when he offers thorns to me? For he who offers thorns to
anyone is against me still, and who is whole without him? Be you his
friend for me, that I may be forgiven, and you may look upon the Son of
God as whole. 
</div> 

You see? You see the level of involvement, the level of Brotherhood?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Be you his friend for me, &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; you can’t do that in your little ivory tower with all of your
spiritual thoughts, private. And A Course in Miracles does not teach
uninvolvement.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Be you his friend for me, that I
may be forgiven, &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; Why? Why would I be forgiven? Because if you abandon your fear
of God and remember, rediscover, we’ll say, as an experience that you
are a holy Son or Daughter of God, you, as I’ve said before, immediately
Know that this is the truth about your Brother and Sister—not as an
intellectual thing but as an experiential thing. Now you Know your
Brother in a way you’ve never known him before.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Be you his friend for me, that I
may be forgiven, &hellip;
</div> 

When you have forgiven your Brother by your recognition of his holiness,
he can recognize it. And when he recognizes it, he will Know you and he
will Know me and I will be forgiven.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and you may look upon the
Son of God as whole. But look you first upon the altar in your chosen
home, and see what you have laid upon it to offer me. 
</div> 

And this is the bottom line, this is the crux, this is where the
transformation comes into play, because, for lack of better words, this
is where the work is done. This is where the change occurs. This is
where learning happens when you look within to what you’re laying upon
the altar. Right now the altar is an altar to you. And you put all sorts
of trinkets on it and all the things that you would have another see so
that they might have the right concept about you. And you act out all of
those trinkets and all of those things you value.

Now, I’m going to do something I’ve never done before, and that is, that
I’m going to go to a lesson in the Workbook. It’s Lesson 191.[^3] This
lesson has as its primary thought, “I am the holy Son of God Himself.”
Why am I reading this? Because this is what needs to be on your Altar.
This is the Gift you need to be able to give in order for forgiveness to
occur.

It’s so easy to think that, “Oh, this is going on in Europe. And there
are other things going on in the Middle East. And it’s amazing, isn’t
it, just how much learning they must all be going through. And it’s very
entertaining and sometimes a little scary to see how awkwardly they’re
doing it. But you know what? I know the Holy Spirit will turn all of it
to their advantage.” Such supercilious, haughtiness and arrogance. And
what a misunderstanding, because there isn’t anyone who is not your
brother or your sister, there isn’t anyone that you do not make a gift
to all the time, because you are not separate and you are not able to
live independent lives that don’t affect each other.

Now, you could say to me, “Well, I have enough brothers and sisters
right here in my neighborhood, from my family, to actual neighbors, to
the bankers, you know, to the money lenders, to the grocery store. I
have enough to deal with right here.” Well you know what? You’re not
called upon to like, reach out and engage with each individual
separately. No, the gift of forgiveness happens on the Altar right in
the middle of you.

So there is something to be done. You can’t imagine that this stuff is
going on over there with them and so you must be a Brother, you must
recognize your place in the Family or the Brotherhood of Man and
consciously make your gift instead of unconsciously making it. And what
is the gift you make, “Well, that’s their problem over there let them
take care of it. They must take care of it. It’s between them and their
God.” That’s the gift you’re making. It’s the gift of separation, it’s
the gift of isolation and it is absolutely inconsistent with everything
the Course teaches. And you can’t afford to justify it by means of
things you’ve chosen to interpret strangely from the Course.

Lesson 191: “I am the holy Son of God Himself.” Mind you, this is the
Gift that needs to be on your Altar. Remember, that although you can
read this and interpret it to mean that it is a recognition you have in
the privacy of your mind at the Altar in the middle of your Being, that
has nothing to do with anyone else.

How do you arrive at the awareness, the experience of being the holy Son
of God yourself? By overcoming your fear of God—the last Obstacle to
Peace—and realizing, as I’ve said, that you are the holy Son or Daughter
of God. So it’s that which is on your Altar and, as I said, inseparable
from that realization, simultaneous with that experience is the
experience that it’s the truth about every one of your fellowmen—your
brothers and sisters. Their holiness will not confound you but it will
astound you. It will be whelming, not overwhelming.  It will be a
significant experience of the sort you’ve not had for a very long time.

So here’s this Gift: Your realization that you’re the Son or Daughter of
God that is the simultaneous realization that your Brother and Sister
are the holy Sons and Daughters of God. It’s not a private recognition.

Beginning Lesson 191:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Here is your declaration of release
from bondage of the world. And here as well &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is all the world released.
You do not see what you have done by giving to the world the role of
jailer to the Son of God. What could it be but vicious and afraid,
fearful of shadows, punitive and wild, lacking all reason, blind, insane
[and sad]? 
</div> 

That’s the state of the Son or Daughter of God who is jailed by the
world. But here’s the key question:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What have you done that this should
be your world? What have you done that this is what you see? 
</div> 

Oh, is it looking for guilt? Is it about to make you the guilty one? No.
It’s simply saying, take a look at the mechanics of this process:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What have you done that this should
be your world? What have you done that this is what you see? 
</div> 

Well, here’s the simple answer:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Deny your own Identity, &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; you holy Son or Daughter of God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Deny your own Identity, and this is
what remains. 
</div> 

You see? It’s simple. There’s no one who’s guilty. But when you deny
your Identity, all that’s left is an experience of the dissonance of the
miserable unreality of the idea.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You look on chaos and proclaim it
is yourself. There is no sight that fails to witness this to you.
</div> 

Look at this again:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You look on chaos and proclaim it
[as] yourself. 
</div> 

The result is:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is no sight that fails to
witness this to you. 
</div> 

Your perception governs absolutely what you’re seeing, because of what
you have on the Altar and what the gift is that you’re giving, which
isn’t one of forgiveness.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is no sound that does not
speak of frailty within you and without; no breath you draw that does
not seem to bring you nearer death; no hope you hold but will dissolve
in tears. 
</div> 

Without an awareness that you’re the holy Son or Daughter of God, this
is the kind of existence you experience. Without being able to recognize
the Kingdom of Heaven is where you are, you will see what you believe It
is. And because there is no inspiration of Love and of your divinity in
your perception, the Kingdom of Heaven is all of these things.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is no sight that fails to
witness [chaos] to you. There is no sound that does not speak of frailty
within you and without; no breath you draw that does not seem to bring
you nearer death; no hope you hold but will dissolve in tears. 
</div> 

It’s miserable! And yet it’s very easy to become addicted to the
preoccupation with these things and bury yourself deeper in
forgetfulness so that you do not bring to the Altar in the middle of you
the answer, which is the realization, “I am the holy Son of God.”

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Deny your own Identity, and you
will not escape the madness which induced this weird, unnatural and
ghostly thought [which] mocks creation and [which] laughs at God.
</div> 

Every single concept, every single misperception you embrace about the
world that says, “It has nothing to do with God, it’s just a physical
universe.” You’re looking at Creation and defining it with those
meanings, and it mocks God, because it’s a denial of what is actually in
front of you, which is God appearing, called “Creation,” blessed by the
Love that God Is and the indivisibility that God Is which precludes the
possibility of conflict of any sort.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Deny your own Identity, and you
assail the universe alone, without a friend, a tiny particle of dust
against the legions of your enemies. 
</div> 

And you see enemies. Because on your Altar there is not a recognition or
an acceptance or a consideration of the idea that you are a holy Son or
Daughter of God. And therefore, you do not extend it! Forgiveness
doesn’t occur. What does that mean—forgiveness doesn’t occur? Well,
something happens. And if forgiveness isn’t occurring, the something
else that happens—that is happening—is the accusation of guilt. There is
no void.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Deny your own Identity, and look on
evil, sin and death, &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; you’re going to look on something. You’re looking, you’re going
to see something.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and watch despair snatch
from your fingers every scrap of hope, leaving you nothing but the wish
to die.

Yet what is it &hellip;
</div> 

Listen to this:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet what is it except a game
&hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; a game that silly children might play.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet what is it except a game you
play in which Identity can be denied? 
</div> 

It’s preposterous! All of this is nothing more than the, I will say,
experiential effect of playing a ridiculous meaningless game in which
Identity can be denied. It’s ridiculous because &hellip; continuing
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You are as God created you. All
else but this one thing is folly to believe. 
</div> 

You know, there’s almost not a single time we get together that I do not
share with you, confront you, encourage you to recognize and believe
that you are right now the holy Son or Daughter of God and that you
never stopped being It.  That’s what’s on my Altar. And that’s what I
offer to you. And you could call it forgiveness, because you don’t
believe what I’m saying. And there is a mindset that could say, you are
guilty of not believing what I’m saying, you’re guilty of not believing
the truth and therefore, there is a penalty that you ought to pay and
must pay. It isn’t true.

Now are you the Sons and Daughters of God. You don’t have to earn It,
you don’t have to grow into It, you don’t have to refine yourself from
something less to something more. And the Gift I make is the constant
reminder of that and it’s the Gift that you need to make to your
brothers and sisters.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You are as God created you. All
else but this one thing is folly to believe. In this one thought is
[everything] set free. In this one truth are all illusions gone. In this
one fact is sinlessness proclaimed to be forever part of everything, the
central core of its existence and its guarantee of immortality. 
</div> 

Is that something that can’t be had until there’s been a difficult trek
back Home where you pay for having lost your way?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You are as God created you. 
</div> 

Such a simple thing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In this one thought is [everything]
set free. 
</div> 

In that Gift that you make, the difficult trek, the laborious process of
refining your soul vanishes, instantaneously! It doesn’t wait upon time.
It doesn’t wait upon process unless you imagine time and process into
the event.  And then you will act as though time and process is
occurring, when it isn’t [chuckling].

Forgiveness is called for still in Europe and in Greece. Love,
family—not money—needs to govern the decisions and the actions. The
participants may not be looking at themselves and recognizing that, “I
am the holy Son of God Himself,” but you can. And that Gift in that one
thought, is everything set free.

Now I’m not going to read all of Lesson 191, but I’m going to invite you
all to do so on your own.

Jumping a little bit I will read something else:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You who perceive yourself as weak
and frail, with futile hopes and devastated dreams, born but to die, to
weep and suffer pain, hear this: All power is given unto you in earth
and Heaven. There is nothing that you cannot do. You play the game of
death, of being helpless, pitifully tied to dissolution in a world which
shows no mercy to you. Yet when you accord it mercy, will its mercy
shine on you.

Then let the Son of God &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; meaning, the divine one that you Are &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; awaken from his sleep, and
opening his holy eyes, return again to bless the world he made. 
</div> 

Bless the world he made by letting it be replaced with the clarity of
what it is as the Kingdom of Heaven.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In error it began, but it will end
in the reflection of his holiness. 
</div> 

Forgiveness &hellip; the Gift you make that transforms the world, is not
something you do to the world. It’s something you do quietly in the
withinness of you, where you abandon the fear of God and you say,
“Father, what is the truth here?” and let the Father fill you with His
Perspective, revealing to you your divinity and your brother’s as well.

The details of what is going on in Europe and Greece are not relevant
factors to be used to govern how you feel about things. Who you divinely
are and who every member of Greece and the European Union—the
recognition of what you all Are—is the only pertinent thing, which, if
you will dare to embrace, will cause spontaneous realization to occur of
what truly blesses everyone.

And then I invite you to be the best brother and sister you can possibly
be, you holy Sons and Daughters of God.

I love you very much and I look forward to being with you next time.

[^1]: Luke 15:11-32
[^2]: T20.2 Thorns and Lilies
[^3]: [ACIM Workbook Lesson 191](/acim/workbook/l191/)

