---
title: Jul 21, 2015
ref: T20.2 Thorns and Lilies
alink: "/acim/text/20/chap2002/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who’s joining us on the Internet.

I’m going to back up to the beginning of the paragraph for context:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I have great need for lilies, for the Son of God[^1] &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; meaning those of you who are not Awake,

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; has not forgiven me. And can I offer him forgiveness, when he offers
thorns to me?
</div> 

Now, of course I can offer forgiveness, but if you or anyone else offer thorns
to me, you are in an aggressive expressive position, not a quiet receptive
attitude. And so what I offer, you will not receive or hear.

Again:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And can I offer him forgiveness, when he offers thorns to me? For he who
offers thorns to anyone is against me still, and who is whole without
him?
</div> 

I can’t just stand there, you can’t just stand there and let someone else stand
in a state of defiance without recognizing that there is a call for correction
that needs to be implemented. And, of course, the implementation is going to
be a matter of education, isn’t it—that which promotes a shift of perception
out of confusion into clarity?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Be you his friend for me, that I may be forgiven, and you may look upon
the Son of God &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; your brother, who is in a defiant state &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; as whole. But look you first upon the altar in your chosen
home, and see what you have laid upon it to offer me. If it be thorns
whose points gleam sharply in a blood-red light, the body is your chosen
home, and it is separation that you offer me. 
</div> 

Now, I’m going to take this in a direction that the Text will not go, because
it’s important to understand that those words &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; whose points gleam sharply in a blood-red light,
</div> 

&hellip; are not overly dramatic, are not said for an impression.

When you got a divorce from your Father, when you said, along with a
brother or sister, “Father, I’d rather see it my way.” “I’d rather do it
my way.” “We would rather define everything ourselves,” you not only
separated yourself conceptually from your Source which caused you to
feel unexpectedly minus a parent—in other words, you found yourself in a
state of orphanhood as an experience, even though it was totally
imaginative—when that happened, this brother or sister whom you got the
divorce from the Father with, became untrustworthy because in your state
of orphanhood there was no grounded stability present.

Everything was dangerous, everything was questionable. And although the
two of you—and others as they came along—made up definitions yourself
and worked “together”&hellip; apparently &hellip; there was always
present an absence of trust: “What will he do?” “What will she do next?”
“Well, he or she is just a product of their psychological development as
they grew. And each one is different and no one is predictable. And from
my experience, I have learned that sometimes the unpredictable behavior
is harmful—is hurtful. And so I do not trust my brother, I do not trust
my sister, even though I express deep love by giving them the extreme
benefit of the doubt, even though it is not a total benefit of the
doubt.”

Oh-h &hellip; but you see, that’s an approximation of love. That’s an
approximation of trust, that’s an approximation of respect, because it’s
not total. And so, whether you’ve thought about it this way or not, the
distrust that each of you has with your brothers and sisters,—with all
of Mankind—is a grievance. A grievance that you are constantly holding.
For the most part, you can rise above it and not be moved by it
particularly, until an incident of some sort or another occurs. But pay
attention. When the grievance comes to the surface, you are most unkind.
The thorns, the jabs, the aggressive mean-spiritedness are &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; points that gleam sharply in a blood-red light &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; in an awful light &hellip; in an unlovely light—an extremely
unlovely light.  There is nothing beneficial about the attitude that is
expressed as a result of your grievance.

Now, we’ve been reading about the Obstacles to Peace and how to overcome
them, so that you are experiencing your peace instead of grievance,
instead of distrust, instead of fear. And the fact is, that if you are
not experiencing your peace, you are in a state of ignorance. You are
experiencing something invalid.

But when you—when anyone—experiences a grievance, it is something that
is quite seductive. It is something that is quite compelling. It’s
something quite mesmerizing. And it causes you to stand in emotional
agreement—turning up the volume, as it were—instead of recognizing that
this is an invalid experience that doesn’t express your Birthright or
your integrity, and does not constitute any kind of respect for the
integrity of the brothers or sisters who are being the recipient
&hellip; uh-h-h &hellip; of these gleaming points in a blood-red light.

Now, each of you does this because you are not experiencing your
invulnerability &hellip; which, of course, has nothing to do with your
brothers or sisters. It has nothing to do with any of the ones you hold
a grievance against. It has to do only with the fact that at one point,
you said, “Father, I’d rather determine what things are my way.” “I’d
rather define everything myself.” And you began to ignore your
Father—your Source. You separated yourself from It. That is the only
thing that needs to be corrected—not your brothers, sisters, or
circumstances.

Now, I said:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; look &hellip; first upon the altar in your chosen home, and see
what you have laid upon it to offer me. 
</div> 

And I promise you that any time you are offering thorns—grievances
expressed toward a brother—you cannot say you love me but you’re having
a problem with your brother the two of you are different. If you
are expressing [grievances], if you indulge in them, if you’re not
bothered by them, then you are not joined with the Father. And the
fourth Obstacle to Peace is still functioning, is still determining your
experience and your perceptions. It’s that simple. And so you cannot be
loving me any more than the brother that you feel that you have an
obvious reason for holding a grievance against.

So, the answer is not changing your brother to give you your peace, even
though your brother may need to be changed. What needs to happens is:
You need to abandon your fear of the Father, the Fourth Obstacle, so
that you might, in your surrendering of your will, feel the Father’s
Will in you as You and experience the Love that experientially
illuminates to you that you must indeed, be nothing less than the holy
Son or Daughter of God.

And as I said, that’s the threshold of the second part of the
realization. And that is, that your brother, your sister is likewise,
the holy Son or Daughter of God for exactly the same reason you Are, . .
and your perception of your brother or sister shifts. When it shifts,
and there is correction called for in your brothers’ experience, you
will be able to express it, . . you will be able to respond in a way
that promotes that realization rather than aggravates his grievance.
And this is very important.

Now, I’m going to continue with the thread as it’s unfolding in the Course:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Be you his friend for me, that I may be forgiven, and you may look upon
the Son of God as whole. But look you first upon the altar in your
chosen home, and see what you have laid upon it to offer me. If it be
thorns whose points gleam sharply in a blood-red light, the body is your
chosen home, . . 
</div> 

&hellip; you’re identifying yourself “as a body” &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and it is separation that you offer me. And yet the thorns are gone.
</div> 

And yet the thorns are gone? What does that mean?

Well, you must remember that I was sharing this in a context with Helen.
And there’s a continuity here that has, you might say, been interrupted
by the introduction of a new chapter heading that occurs right in the
middle of the flow, and makes it seem as though we have finished about
the Obstacles to Peace and the result of overcoming and abandoning them.
And it’s not true.

And so, when it says:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; If it be thorns whose points gleam sharply in a blood-red
light, the body is your chosen home, and it is separation that you offer
me. And yet the thorns are gone &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; it means that the thorns are gone because you have abandoned
all four Obstacles to Peace.

We’re continuing on with the movement, because when you overcome and
abandon the four Obstacles to Peace, there’s more. There’s now the
experience of being able to relate to your brothers and sisters with the
Knowing of their divinity—no matter how they are seeing themselves and,
as I said, when you are able to see it because there is no other way to
see a brother or sister of someone who is the holy Son or Daughter of
God—meaning you. If you are [the holy Son or Daughter of God] and you
are feeling it, then you, as I said, immediately feel it about your
brothers and sisters. And so there will be a process of education that
occurs—a process of correction where brothers and sisters are still
reluctant to abandon their fear of God. But you make it easier.
You facilitate it for your brothers and sisters.

And so it says:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And yet the thorns are gone.
</div> 

They’re gone because you made the shift.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Look you still closer at them now, and you will see your altar is no
longer what it was. 
</div> 

Well, what was it before? Well, it had all these trinkets on it, didn’t
it?  All these tools that you used for manipulation in order to get what
you valued and make other people value what you value so that you could
become something more than this orphan that you feel like.

So, once you’ve overcome the Fourth Obstacle, the altar changes. It no
longer has these trinkets on it. No. What it has on it is the gift of
your realization: “I am the holy Son of God.” “I am the holy Daughter of
God.” That’s the only thing left on it. You see?

Now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You look still with the body’s eyes, and they CAN see but thorns. Yet
you have asked for and received ANOTHER sight. Those who accept the Holy
Spirit’s purpose as their own share also His vision. 
</div> 

And this makes even more sense when you remember that the Holy Spirit is
nothing more than your right Mind.

Those who accept the Holy Spirit’s purpose &hellip;

&hellip; which obviously, has to be each one’s purpose &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; as their own share also His vision.
</div> 

That’s the shift of perception. That’s the correction that occurs with love.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And what enables Him to see His purpose shine forth from every altar now
is yours as well as His. 
</div> 

The altars in every single one of your brothers and sisters [are] not
actually adorned with trinkets and manipulative tools. They think it does, 
and they behave as though it does, but their holiness is still
the only thing sitting there on the altar—the only thing that is being
expressed and being broadcast.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He sees no strangers, only dearly loved and loving friends &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; and sometimes friends who aren’t being loving, because they
have yet to remember that they are the holy Sons and Daughters of God,
who have yet to feel the Father’s Love which transforms their mind and
their perception of themselves—something which you now are able to share
with your brothers and sisters &hellip; the Father’s Love, the real
perception and experience of the Truth of Him.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; the Holy Spirit and therefore, you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; sees no thorns but only lilies, gleaming in the gentle glow of
peace that shines on everything He looks upon and loves. 
</div> 

And the fact that that is what is being seen, is that which heals and
transforms and lifts your brothers and your sisters, along with you,
into the experience of Truth, the experience of peace, the experience in
which grievances are absent.

If you are not experiencing your peace, you are experiencing an
illusion, and there is nothing valid in the experience for you to
understand or make better.  If you are not experiencing peace, you must
be willing to abandon your preoccupation with the illusion. And it’s
very easy to do.

All one has to do is meditate &hellip;

&hellip; and in the process of mediating and having arrived at a state
of inner peace, asking, “Father what is the truth?” &hellip;

&hellip; and listening.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This Easter, &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; which was of course, when I was sharing this with Helen. But
Easter is any moment in which the realization of Truth can occur and
transform your mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This Easter, look with different eyes upon each other. You HAVE forgiven
me.  And yet I cannot use your gift of lilies while YOU see them not.
Nor can you use what I have given unless you share it. 
</div> 

You see? There’s nothing private about this. There’s nothing about this
that you can do all alone with God, or all alone with me, or all alone
with the Holy Spirit. This is involvement in Family.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit’s vision &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; which is really the vision of that which is “nothing more than
your right Mind” &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is no idle gift, no plaything to be tossed about a while, and laid aside.
</div> 

I know &hellip; it’s easy to think, “Well, I’ll ask the Holy Spirit,” or
“I’ll ask Jesus.” “I’ll get quiet for a while here and I will genuinely
listen and get the Answer. And then I’ll stop listening and go about my
business, benefitting from the Answer,” as though the Holy Spirit or
Jesus is some infinite answering machine. No!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Listen and hear this carefully, nor think it but a dream; a careless
thought to play with, or a toy you would pick up from time to time, and
then put by. For if you do, so will it be to you:
</div> 

Well, what will be so to you? Oh, that Guidance or communication with
the Holy Spirit, or learning from the Holy Spirit, is something that
happens from time to time, whenever you’re curious enough. But you see,
that’s still being asleep! That’s still being an orphan.

If the Holy Spirit is nothing more than your right Mind, then if you are
going to be Sane, you are going to be in your right Mind always. Is that
very clear?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have the vision now to look past ALL illusions.
</div> 

In other words, once you get past the four *Obstacles to Peace*.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have the vision now to look past ALL illusions. It has been given
you to see no thorns, no strangers, and no obstacles to peace. The fear
of God is nothing to you now. Who is afraid to look upon illusions,
knowing his Savior stands beside him? 
</div> 

The word “Savior” has a capital “S,” but it’s referring to your
brother—your brothers and sisters right here.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
With him, your vision has become the greatest power for the undoing of illusion
that God Himself could give.
</div> 

Do you hear that? It means that the cooperation, the camaraderie, the
Brotherhood shared by every single one of you with each other,
experienced from the realization that each is the holy Son or Daughter
of God, has become the greatest power for the undoing of illusion that
God Himself could give! And that means as the world is blessed and
transformed by the sharing, by the acts of Brotherhood, by holding
fast—unswervingly—to the conscious awareness that your brothers and
sisters are the holy Sons and Daughters of God, and then being
appropriate when correction is called for, when education is called for,
when learning is called for in those who still think they’re just a
body. You see?

Now one could say, “Well, that’s a formidable task. That’s an impossible
task.  How can I do that with everyone? How can I feel their holiness?
How can I feel the holiness of this one, and that one, and the other
one, and the one over there, and the one back there?”

This isn’t something that happens through space. It happens through
realization. And what you don’t understand is, that when you value the
abandoning of the Obstacles to Peace enough to overcome them—abandon
them—this realization that I’ve described, occurs. You feel the Father’s
Love. And it reveals to you your holiness, and simultaneously reveals to
you the holiness, not of your brother or your sister, but of your
brothers-s-s and sisters-s-s—plural—every single one of them. There is
no to consider any of them differently.

And so you don’t have to work at accumulating a capacity to infinitely
love this one, and that one, and the other one, and the other one. It is
therefore not a formidable task. In the experience of it, it is an
experience of Oneness, of Wholeness.

So do not flinch as you approach this threshold. When you cross the
threshold, what you have been expecting will not be there to meet you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
With him, &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; your brother, sister &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; your vision has become the greatest power for the undoing of illusion
that God Himself could give. For what God gave the Holy Spirit, you have
received. The Son of God looks unto you &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; your brothers and sisters, in other words &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; The Son of God looks unto you for his release &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; for your forgiveness, for your withdrawal of any concept you
might hold of him that is different from the Vision of him as the holy
Son or Daughter of God that God has revealed to you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For you have asked for, and been given, the strength to look upon this
final obstacle, and see no thorns nor nails to crucify the Son of God,
and crown him king of death. Your chosen home is on the other side,
beyond the veil. 
</div> 

And I’m going to add, “without dying!” &hellip; without dying!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It has been carefully prepared for you, and it is ready to receive you now.
</div> 

Your place was never truly abandoned. It has never been truly empty. And
it’s not like your Father used your room for other purposes until you
decided to come Home. Your place is constituted of You, and You have
always been in It, You have always been filling It. But you have
indulged in this imaginative state of mind in which you pretended to be
on your own, and it altered your perception of everything.

The only thing that is undone is a perception. And what has always been,
will register with you again. And this does not take labor, this takes
willingness &hellip; willingness on your part to stop valuing your
independence and the power you think you ought to have in that
independence, but which you never truly have.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your chosen home is on the other side, beyond the veil.
</div> 

You’ve already moved there, when you have abandoned your fear of the Father.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It has been carefully prepared for you, and it is ready to receive you
now. You will not see it with the body’s eyes. Yet all you need you
have. 
</div> 

That’s what you will discover: all you need you have.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your home has called to you since time began, . .
</div> 

That sounds beautiful and poetic &hellip; doesn’t it? Sort of like an
encouraging, nurturing statement. But it’s nothing that fancy. It’s a matter
of fact.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your home &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; your Sanity &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; has called to you since time began, &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; since you caused time to seem to come into existence by choosing to be
imaginatively—not really—independent.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your home has called to you since time began, nor have you ever failed entirely
to hear. You heard, but knew not HOW to look, nor WHERE. And now you know.
</div> 

How do you know? You know by virtue of the exposition of the four Obstacles to
Peace &hellip; and now the fifth—the final. The final obstacle is to &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; see no thorns nor nails to crucify the Son of God, and crown him king of
death.
</div> 

In other words, you must look at every one of your brothers and sisters and
overcome, abandon the fifth obstacle—the final obstacle—which is your distrust
of your brother and your withholding of full acknowledgement of what he
divinely Is. You must dare to overcome your fear of your brother. You see?
That’s why you can’t go back Home alone, because there is no such thing as
“alone at Home.”

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In you the knowledge lies, ready to be unveiled and freed from all the terror
that kept it hidden.
</div> 

&hellip; all of the grievances.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There IS no fear in love. The song of Easter is the glad refrain the Son of God
was NEVER crucified. Let us lift up our eyes together, not in fear, but faith.
</div> 

Again, these aren’t just nice religious words:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Let us lift up our eyes together, &hellip; 
</div> 

&hellip; let’s not be separate anymore. Let’s not approach each other
distrustingly.

Let us lift up our eyes together, not in fear, but faith. And there WILL be no
fear in us, for in our vision will be no illusions; only a pathway to the open
door of Heaven, the home we share in quietness, and where we live in gentleness
and peace, as one together.

As one together &hellip; not all of us disappearing into a single amorphous blob,
but all of us as the infinite Expression of God—together—without
misperceptions getting in the way of our full experience of each other.

Now I‘m going to stop here for tonight. I invite everyone to consider these
things as soberly as the things I shared last week, although here, it seems as
though what I’m inviting you to soberly consider are sweet and gentle and
supportive things. But please understand that they are as practical, and down
to earth, “nuts and bolts things” to consider and embrace and embody.

Again:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Listen and hear this carefully, nor think it but a dream; a careless
thought to play with, or a toy you would pick up from time to time, and
then put by. For if you do, so will it be to you:
</div> 

There’s the nuts and bolts of it. It’s the Truth &hellip; but you need
to let It transform your behavior.

I love you very much, and I look forward to being with you next time.

[^1]: T20.2 Thorns and Lilies

