---
title: Aug 1, 2015
ref: T20.2 Thorns and Lilies
alink: "/acim/text/20/chap2002/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

We have spent a lot of time talking about the Obstacles to Peace, moving
past each one of the four, &hellip; the last of which was the Fear of
God.

Now, I want to make it clear that whenever you practice the holy
instant, whenever you engage in the two-step and, in the Silence, hear
the Voice for Truth&mdash;hear the Holy Spirit reveal the truth to you
that causes an &ldquo;ah-ha&rdquo; to occur, a realization, a shift of
perception&mdash;you have overcome the last obstacle: the Fear of God.

You may not be able to stay in that state of fearlessness consistently,
or even for very long, but it does not change the fact that you have
experienced Communion&mdash;you have experienced the Presence of God in
you.

Now, I&rsquo;ve mentioned before that when you got a divorce from the
Father, something unexpected happened when you said, &ldquo;I&rsquo;d
rather do it my way,&rdquo; &ldquo;I&rsquo;d rather see it my
way.&rdquo; When you and a brother together decided to abandon the
Father&rsquo;s Perspective, something unexpected happened. You were
suddenly confronted with something you had never experienced before:
Fear and guilt.

These are not elements of omnipotence. These are not the elements of
invulnerability which are your Birthright, and which had been your
experience up until the moment you decided to abandon the Father&rsquo;s
Perspective. But when you did, suddenly you were confronted with what
you didn&rsquo;t expect.

Now, when you overcome the fourth Obstacle to Peace&mdash;the Fear of
God&mdash;you find yourself infilled with the truth about you. You find
yourself infilled with the experience of Love, the experience of being
Loved infinitely, profoundly&mdash;so completely that it causes a
realization in you that you are the holy Son or the holy Daughter of
God. That you are absolutely divine. That you are a Christed One, just
as I am.

And, as I have said, simultaneous with that experience and realization,
you find yourself Knowing that this very same thing is true about your
brother and sister. And that is a profound shift of perception&mdash;a
miracle. And it causes you, in that clarity, to behave in a brand new
way with your brothers and sisters, in a way that asserts and affirms
their divinity&mdash;their holiness.

Now, we learned the last time we were together that this is a profound
Gift; that It is the means of your coming back Home&hellip; but not just
you! It is the Gift that brings both you and your brother back Home. And
that&rsquo;s the only way you can come back Home.

But it is the most powerful Gift, the most profound Gift that the Father 
can give.  Why? Because it works. And because it is the only thing that
works.  To be able to look into your brother&rsquo;s eyes and
remember God, instead of [chuckling] all the lousy things he or your
sister did to you, how difficult they made it for you, how cruel they
were, how much suffering it caused you.

And so you&rsquo;re met with a surprise.

You&rsquo;re met with the experience of your holiness and this profound
Awareness of the holiness of your brothers and sisters&mdash;because of
their immaculate relationship with God, which is the only thing true
about them, just as it is the only true thing about you. And now you
have a spontaneous inclination to treat them as the holy ones that they
Are.

But the surprise is the answer to the question: Are you willing to
extend it, or are you going to hold on to a grievance?

&ldquo;Well, I&rsquo;m not going to acknowledge who they really Are and
let them off the hook when they haven&rsquo;t paid for the inconvenience
and the hurt that they&rsquo;ve caused!&rdquo;

That&rsquo;s the surprise!

And it&rsquo;s a conflict&hellip; because in the realization of the
truth about them, you intend, from a bottomless place, to love them and
treat them on the basis of Who and What you now Know they Are, with
profound love and respect. And so you bring into play within yourself a
merciless conflict, a truly rugged conflict that hurts you and delays
your brother&rsquo;s Awakening&mdash;your brother&rsquo;s freedom.

[Turning to the book.]

I&rsquo;m going to start a few sentences back from where I said we would
start tonight. Where it says:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The song of Easter is the glad
refrain the Son of God was NEVER crucified. [^1]
</div>

That&rsquo;s the realization. The Son of God was NEVER crucified. The
Son of God was never less than the Son of God. You have never been the
&ldquo;piss-ant&rdquo; mortal you thought you were and neither has your
brother or sister. That&rsquo;s the realization of Easter.

Part of the realization of Easter is embodied in the words from the
Bible: &ldquo;If I be lifted up I draw all men nigh unto me.&rdquo;[^2]
Now likewise, if you be lifted up, you draw all men unto you. It is a
natural and spontaneous action that occurs and it&rsquo;s out of your
control.

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The song of Easter is the glad
refrain the Son of God was NEVER crucified. Let us lift up our eyes
together, not in fear, but faith. And there WILL be no fear in us, for
in our vision will be no illusions;&hellip;
</div>

All of them have been wiped away in your direct experience of being
profoundly loved by the Father so completely that you clearly Know you
are divine &hellip; and so is your mean-spirited brother and your bitchy
sister. They aren&rsquo;t who they think they are and they aren&rsquo;t
who you thought they were.

But you, in your tiny little emotional ego, feel hurt.

Now your puny little ego is not the place in which you&rsquo;ve
experienced the Father&rsquo;s Love. It&rsquo;s an imaginary concept you
have about yourself, that you have energized and valued, and which this
realization of your holiness undoes, undermines, invalidates.

But it&rsquo;s your habit!

You&rsquo;re committed to being pissed off at your sister or brother for
what they&rsquo;ve done, in spite of the fact that your realization has
uncovered to you that they never actually did it and you were never hurt
by it, because you&rsquo;re not who you thought you were and
they&rsquo;re not who you thought they were, and there&rsquo;s a
requirement of a shift!

Let me put it this way: In the experience of God&rsquo;s Love, the shift
occurs.  But you know what? You must come along and validate the shift.
You must confirm the shift by changing your mind. And I mean by that, by
abandoning&mdash;letting go of&mdash;what doesn&rsquo;t fit and what
isn&rsquo;t true &hellip; which you now know isn&rsquo;t true.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Let us lift up our eyes together,
&hellip;
</div>

See? No longer at odds, no longer sitting in righteous
judgment&mdash;&ldquo;superior&rdquo; you, and &ldquo;inferior&rdquo;
them. Superior you, who of course, never ever treated them badly,
thought of them badly, even though right now, in your
self-righteousness, you are claiming that they are inferior and unworthy
of your extending What is pressuring itself in you to come out of you that
acknowledges that they are not what you thought they were &hellip; and
that they are indeed utterly holy loved Sons and Daughters of God, just
like you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And there WILL be no fear in us,
for in our vision will be no illusions; only a pathway to the open door
of Heaven, the home we share in quietness, and where we live in
gentleness and peace, as one together. 
</div>

Now, if I hadn&rsquo;t shared with you what I just shared with you, this
next sentence might have been quickly brushed by.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Would you not have your holy
brother lead you there &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; on the pathway to the open door of Heaven?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Would you not have your holy
brother lead you there? 
</div>

Well, you are likely to conveniently define the meaning of that as,
&ldquo;Would you not have me lead you there&rdquo;&mdash;the holy one
that you do believe I am.

But that&rsquo;s not what it&rsquo;s meaning.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Would you not have your holy
brother &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; or sister, that&rsquo;s right there with you where you are
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; lead you there? 
</div>

&ldquo;Um-m &hellip; well it just depends if I can get past my righteous
anger and distress and my great need for justice.&rdquo;

So, in order to have your holy brother lead you there, you&rsquo;re
likely to find yourself having to do something you don&rsquo;t want to
do, something that requires you to make a really fundamental basic
change in you by your conscious choice.  And you&rsquo;re likely to call
that &ldquo;work.&rdquo; And you had hoped that Awakening would be a
lovely easy breeze because it&rsquo;s a spiritual thing that&rsquo;s
happening that obviously is going to be natural to you.

Well, yes, it&rsquo;s utterly natural to you and it&rsquo;s going to
impel Itself out into action. But if you&rsquo;re going to say,
&ldquo;No, that person is not worthy of that kind of love and respect
yet,&rdquo; then the Gift will not be made and you provide yourself with
a crown of thorns and not lilies that provide the entry into the Kingdom
of Heaven&mdash;the conscious experience of Reality.

Important!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Would you not have your holy
brother lead you there? 
</div>

Well, now you know that you might not&mdash;at least there might be a
few that you will not. But you know what? I&rsquo;m going to promise you
that those are the ones who will come into your experience and remain
there because they&rsquo;re uncovering your unwillingness to Wake up
yourself.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Would you not have your holy
brother lead you there? His innocence &hellip;
</div>

[Chuckling] &ldquo;Yeah, right! His innocence, you say!&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[Yes] His innocence &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; as the holy Son or Daughter of God that he or she is &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; will light your way,
offering you its guiding light and sure protection, and shining from the
holy altar within him where you laid &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; if you did &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the lilies of forgiveness.
</div>

Why will his innocence light your way? Why will it offer you its guiding
light and sure protection? It&rsquo;s not so much because of what your
brother or sister will be or do, as it is the degree of honesty and
consistency and straightness that you bring to your consideration of
your brother or sister.

You are going to have to be willing to extend the full message in its
full import that was revealed to you when you engaged in the holy
instant and were willing to look into your brothers eyes&mdash;even for
a moment&mdash;and remember God.  You see?

I could say it&rsquo;s the precision of the truthfulness of your
commitment that causes your brother&rsquo;s innocence to light your way,
because there will be no light and there will be no way if you
aren&rsquo;t doing it together. It will offer &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you its guiding light and
sure protection, &hellip;
</div>

And the protection part of it has to do with the fact that you are not
wavering in your willingness to share the good news of your holiness and
your brother&rsquo;s or sister&rsquo;s holiness to your brother and
sister so that it might be shared as a common experience&mdash;a
communion experience. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
His innocence &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the innocence that&rsquo;s really there behind his imperfect
sense of himself and behind your imperfect sense of him &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; will light your way,
offering you its guiding light and sure protection, and shining from the
holy altar within him where you laid the lilies of forgiveness. 
</div>

In other words, where you really laid the lilies of forgiveness, and
didn&rsquo;t keep an &ldquo;ace up your sleeve&rdquo; for a little
vengeance down the road if necessary, because he doesn&rsquo;t really
deserve the full Gift.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Let him be to you the Savior from
illusions, &hellip;
</div>

Ordinarily that word, capitalized, refers only to me, but this is
referring to your brother or sister because they perform the same
function I do when you are willing to acknowledge without reservation
their divinity that has been revealed to you as an experience of yours.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Let him be to you the Savior from
illusions, and look on him with the new vision that looks upon the
lilies and brings YOU joy. 
</div>

Your clear honest committed willingness to acknowledge your
brother&rsquo;s or sister&rsquo;s divinity brings you joy. And the joy
won&rsquo;t be there until you do it!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
We go beyond the veil of fear,
lighting each other&rsquo;s way. 
</div>

You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The holiness that leads us is
WITHIN us, as is our home. So will we find what we were meant to find by
Him Who leads us. 
</div>

And again we have capital &ldquo;H&rdquo; Him, capital &ldquo;W&rdquo;
Who leads us. And that one Who leads us is our Brother and our Sister
whose divinity we have dared to look at without reservation and without
qualification &hellip; and embrace.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is the way to Heaven and to
the peace of Easter, in which we join in glad awareness that the Son of
God is risen from the past, and has awakened to the present. 
</div>

You and your Brothers and Sisters with whom you are sharing this
awareness of holiness have risen from the previous ignorance.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Now is he &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your brother, or she, your sister &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
free, unlimited in his communion
with all that is within him. Now are the lilies of his innocence
untouched by guilt, and perfectly protected from the cold chill of fear
and withering blight of sin alike. Your gift &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; listen to this:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your gift has saved him from the
thorns and nails, and his strong arm is free to guide you safely through
them, and beyond. 
</div>

It&rsquo;s no private job. It&rsquo;s no private endeavor. It&rsquo;s no
private accomplishment. You have to do it together. If you&rsquo;re not
doing it together, you are avoiding Love. And Love is [chuckling] the
pass key, so to speak, back into the Kingdom of Heaven&mdash;the
conscious experience of what everything Really is.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your gift has saved him from the
thorns and nails, and his strong arm is free to guide you safely through
them, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; this one that you thought was the bastard or the bitch. Their
arms are free to guide you. Are you ready to let yourself be guided by
your brother or sister because you are insisting upon seeing nothing
less than their divinity, so that your mind is single of purpose and not
conflicted?

That&rsquo;s the surprising question that you find yourself confronted
with.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Walk with him now rejoicing,
&hellip;
</div>

How stubborn are you? How long are you going to hold onto the grievance
before you will walk with him now rejoicing? And you know, don&rsquo;t
fool yourself and say, &ldquo;Well, he is causing my distress.&rdquo;
No.

You are refusing to pay attention to the realization that came forth as
a result of your engaging in the holy instant and experiencing the Love
of God.  And you are deciding that this one is not worthy, and
therefore, you are going to withhold this clear experience of him that
you do have.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Walk with him now rejoicing, for
the Savior from illusions has come to greet you, and lead you home with
him. 
</div>

I know this isn&rsquo;t necessarily good news, because grievances are
mesmeric.  Grievances get ahold of you and cause you to become obligated
to them&mdash;do or die. Nothing less than justice will be allowed. And
you certainly are not going to let your brother off or your sister off
scot-free. But you&rsquo;re going to have to. And whatever work,
whatever effort it takes, you&rsquo;re going to have to engage in. You
are going to have to argue with the voice for fear in you that tells you
not to trust your brother, not to engage in whatever it takes to express
the Love that heals and transforms where correction is needed&mdash;not
just in you, but in your brother or sister as well.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Here is your Savior and your
Friend, released from crucifixion through your vision, and free to lead
you now where HE would be. 
</div>

You both join in leading each other to where you want to be, which is in
the unequivocal experience of God&rsquo;s Love that demonstrates to you
without a shadow of a doubt, your holiness, your innocence, and the fact
that you were never other than the beloved Son or Daughter of God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Here is your Savior and your
Friend, released from crucifixion through your vision, and free to lead
you now where HE would be. He will not leave you, nor forsake the Savior
from his pain. And gladly will you walk the way of innocence together,
singing as you behold the open door of Heaven, and recognize the home
that called to you. 
</div>

Here&rsquo;s the call. Here&rsquo;s what&rsquo;s called for in this last
step&mdash;Part B&mdash;of the Fourth Obstacle to Peace:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Give joyously to one another the
freedom and the strength to lead you there.  And come before each
other&rsquo;s holy altar where the strength and freedom wait, to offer
and receive the bright awareness that leads you home. 
</div>

What is now on your altar, now that you&rsquo;ve overcome the Fourth
Obstacle to Peace? It&rsquo;s the awareness &ldquo;I am the holy Son of
God.&rdquo; &ldquo;I am the holy Daughter of God.&rdquo; And
there&rsquo;s nothing else on your altar. It&rsquo;s pure simplicity
that reveals the infinite, immaculate fullness of divine Being &hellip;
of Creation.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The lamp is lit in both of you for
one another. 
</div>

Not for you and you alone!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The lamp is lit in both of you for
one another. 
</div>

That means that you and your brother, you and your sister are worth
every bit of devoted attention you can give &hellip; to see, to find and
to confirm each other&rsquo;s holiness, each other&rsquo;s divinity.

Again:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The lamp is lit in both of you for
one another. And by the hands that gave it to each other shall both of
you be led past fear to love. 
</div>

It&rsquo;s quite profound and it&rsquo;s quite simple, if you&rsquo;re
just not too damned obstinate. It still remains simple, because all that
is required is to make a different choice. And now you know what the
choice is.

And a word to the wise: Don&rsquo;t look at a brother or sister whom you
have grievances against and completely refuse to engage in the holy
instant with regard to them.

[Chuckling] You&rsquo;re not saved from anything by not experiencing the
Father&rsquo;s Love of you, so that a brother can&rsquo;t be blessed.
You will stay in the same hell that your brother is in, and that you
have been in, until you make a different choice&mdash;the simple choice
&hellip; the choice that is Love, that moves you both past fear.

I love you very much. Revel in what I have shared with you. And I will
look forward to being with you next time.


[^1]: T20.2 Thorns and Lilies
[^2]: John 12:32

