---
title: Aug 23, 2015
ref: T20.3 Sin as an Adjustment
alink: "/acim/text/20/chap2003/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who’s joining us on the Internet.

Last time we were together, we ended up with these thoughts from the
*Course*.  Speaking of your brother or sister with whom you have found a
holy relationship, it says &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Here is your Savior and your
Friend, released from crucifixion through your vision, and free to lead
you now where He would be.[^1]
</div> 

This beautifully expresses the union involved in the forward
movement—the togetherness of it, the singleness of purpose.

And further &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The lamp is lit in both of you for
one another. And by the hands that gave it to each other shall both of
you be led past fear to love. 
</div> 

Now, suddenly we have a new section entitled:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*Sin as an Adjustment*
</div> 

And it begins &hellip; which is a continuation of where we left off
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The belief in sin is an ADJUSTMENT
</div> 

It is an abrupt change. The reason being, that to have this
mind-changing, life-changing realization of your holiness and your
brother’s or sister’s holiness, is the breaking of a long established
and well established set of perceptions which you have used to determine
what everything is, what everything means, and what all of it can be
used for.

And so, this sudden realization of your holiness and of your brother’s
holiness, and indeed the holiness of all of mankind—all of the
Brotherhood—causes you to be put in a position of re-evaluating, we
might say, all of your past perceptions. It requires you to be willing
to look at the world you have been looking at, and being willing to see
it anew, according to the Vision that it’s all God and it’s all
holy—that it is the Kingdom of Heaven occupied by, enjoyed by, embraced
by the holy Sons and Daughters of God.

And so, &hellip; how can I put it? It’s a time of radical
transformation, the abandoning of habitual perceptions, and habitual
ways of behaving in favor of the behavior that is appropriate for holy
Sons and Daughters of God who have no need to defend themselves anymore,
and who no longer believe that the world and universe is something God
has nothing to do with &hellip; and because God has everything to do
with it, it is not what you had perceived it to be. It is not a
polarized, conflicted universe, but it is the Kingdom of Heaven in
infinite perfect harmony.

Now we’re going to take a look at the mindset that the holy Sons and
Daughters of God, who have discovered a holy relationship, have just
left.

So it begins:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The belief in sin is an ADJUSTMENT.
</div> 

And the word ADJUSTMENT is the key word.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And an adjustment is a CHANGE; a
shift in perception, or a belief that what was so before has been made
different. Every adjustment is therefore a distortion, and calls upon
defenses to uphold it against reality. 
</div> 

Now you can look at this two ways. You can look at this as something
you’re seeing with brand new eyes from a point of clarity that you have
found yourself in because you KNOW that you are a holy Son or Daughter
of God. Or you can look at it from your present vantage point and have
an explanation of what you’re seeing that helps you to be willing to
release it more easily.

So let’s back up:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; an adjustment is a CHANGE;
a shift in perception, &hellip;
</div> 

Now, we’ve talked about this before, and for context, I will repeat it:
When you and a brother or sister decided you wanted to do things your
way—that you wanted to get a divorce from the Father—you did it with the
intent to be able to say what this is, what that is, what this means,
what that means.

Now, obviously Creation already existed in Its completeness, in Its
ever-moving expression of perfection in wholeness. And so, when you
decided you wanted to be giving the definitions as to what everything
was, you had to be altering the meaning of that which already existed
because God made it so.

So,

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; sin is an ADJUSTMENT.
</div> 

It’s a change.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; a shift in perception, or
a belief that what was so before &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; Creation, in Its perfection &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; has been made different.
</div> 

And of course, it’s been made different at your hand and the hand of
your brother or sister.

Every adjustment is therefore a distortion,&hellip;

&hellip; it’s not the actual creation of something new. It’s an
alteration, a distortion of that which already is—that which already was
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and calls upon defenses to
uphold it against reality. 
</div> 

Now to understand this more simply: There are frames made for glasses
which they say &hellip; they use the word “memory” to describe it. The
metal frames have a memory, so that if you sit on them or bend them,
they do not stay in a new configuration. The memory causes them to
return to their original state.  If you squeeze them or attempt to bend
them, you find yourself experiencing resistance. The metal—the memory,
you will say—provides resistance to being bent out of shape. And that
resistance remains in place until you let go of the glasses and let them
return to normal.

It’s important to understand this because the definitions, the
misunderstandings, the misperceptions which have been applied to the
Kingdom of Heaven that cause it to appear to be a material world and
universe to you, that alteration doesn’t change anything. And the
Actuality of God’s Creation resists, we’ll say, your attempt to change
it. And that resistance remains in place until you abandon your attempt.

Now, that is defined as life being difficult—as the “human
condition”—which is fraught with dilemmas and illnesses and everything
unpleasant.

But what it is, is an ever-present help—if you want to call it that—an
ever-present intent that causes you to have the Truth available to you
again, as soon as you abandon your expression of “will” and let it be
replaced with humility.

You are not sinners who have sinned so badly that you cannot experience
Reality or God’s Love until you’ve gone through major steps of paying a
debt. No. The Kingdom of Heaven is constantly pressuring everyone who’s
dreaming dreams or imagining imaginations and believing them &hellip;
it’s constantly pressuring you to abandon them and, without your having
to do something new—in fact, in the absence of doing anything and humbly
yielding—the “frames of the glasses” resume their shape. The Kingdom of
Heaven simply registers with you.

Everyone is constantly being pressured to Awaken.

This is so important.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Every adjustment is therefore a
distortion, and calls upon defenses to uphold it against reality.
Knowledge, &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; or what I have called, Knowing, &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; requires NO adjustment,
and, in fact, is lost if any shift or change is undertaken. 
</div> 

That’s like saying the experience of the Kingdom of Heaven requires no
adjustment. And, in fact, is lost if any shift or change or attempt to
change It is undertaken.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For this reduces it at once to mere
perception; a way of LOOKING in which certainty is lost, and doubt has
entered. 
</div> 

“Oh yeah, sure &hellip; I’m sure we can all look at everything and say
it’s the Kingdom of Heaven. I guess that’s a way of looking at It. But I
prefer to think of it as a universe—a physical universe—that functions
according to the laws of physics. And of course, the laws of physics,
because they are laws, demonstrate the reality of the physical universe
as a physical universe.” You see how the logic, the concept, is used to
reinforce itself?

When that happens, the experience of the Kingdom of Heaven is lost. You
become unconscious of It. The Kingdom of Heaven doesn’t go away or
disappear. You simply become unconscious of It, in preference to being
conscious of the definition you are choosing to validate and make real
to yourself and behave according to.

Mind you, what we’re describing here is the perspective that those who
have joined in a holy relationship and who have experienced God’s Love
so clearly that their holiness is clear to them, this is what they are
in a position of becoming free of.

We’re talking about it though, because one doesn’t abandon old habits
easily.  And so it’s important not to be surprised that there are
ongoing corrections of perceptions that will occur.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Knowledge requires NO adjustment,
and, in fact, is lost if any shift or change is undertaken. For this
reduces it at once to mere perception; a way of LOOKING in which
certainty is lost, and doubt has entered. 
</div> 

I will comment here &hellip; that the moment doubt has entered, and the
experience of what Reality is becomes a mere perception, then there is
like, infinite choice! Wow! How fantastic! How interesting! You see?
Nothing is dull anymore with only one way of seeing everything and
interpreting it. You see?  And so it’s enticing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To this impaired condition ARE
adjustments necessary, because they are not true. 
</div> 

And having experienced and practiced the holy instant to the degree
where your holiness and your brother’s or sister’s holiness is clear to
you, and you are able to join in a holy relationship, you are in a
position of being able to deal with these adjustments to an impaired
condition so as to have the Truth completely replace the definitions
which you’ve created and loved and held onto.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Who need adjust to truth, which
calls on only what he is, to understand? 
</div> 

You &hellip; you holy Sons and Daughters of God &hellip; are the
presence of Truth embodied. For you to experience the Truth is
inescapable because of what you Are and it doesn’t have to be
understood, it doesn’t have to be reasoned out so that you might have a
concept of &hellip; You know the Truth when you’re not introducing
anything else into the picture.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Adjustments of any kind are of the
ego. 
</div> 

Well, of course. When you got the divorce from the Father, everything
that followed was adjustment. Life became a matter of making
adjustments. We’ve talked about them as mutual agreements, and coming up
with new definitions.  These are just adjustments—alterations applied to
the unchangeable perfection of the Kingdom of Heaven, the Presence of
the Father, and actually, the infiniteness of you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Adjustments of any kind are of the
ego. For it is the ego’s fixed belief that all relationships DEPEND upon
adjustments to make of them what it would have them be. 
</div> 

What it would have them be instead of what they Are. What it would have
them be in order to gain an advantage. What it would have them be in
order to become wealthy. What it would have them be in order to be in
control &hellip; and on and on and on.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Direct relationships, &hellip;
</div> 

(Chuckling) &hellip; ones in which no adjustments have been introduced
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Direct relationships, in which
there are no interference’s, are ALWAYS seen as dangerous. 
</div> 

I’m going to read that again:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Direct relationships, in which
there are no interference’s, are ALWAYS seen as dangerous. 
</div> 

Heaven help you if you should become trustingly spontaneous instead of
willfully calculated. Heaven help you if you became unpredictable,
transformational. Oh…no.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Direct relationships, in which
there are no interference’s, are ALWAYS seen as dangerous. The ego is
the self-appointed mediator of all relationships, making whatever
adjustments it deems necessary, and interposing them &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; where? &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; between those who would
meet, to keep them separate and prevent their union. 
</div> 

Why do you think there are mutual agreements? Why do you think there is
something called, “cooperation?” Where did the concept of “working
together” come from? From a fundamental idea of separation—of
independence. Two things that are independent can agree with each other.
They can also disagree with each other. They can cooperate with each
other or they can fight with each other. You see? And the cooperation
presents the approximation of harmony when activity occurs that Love is
not present in. You see?

It is this studied interference which makes it difficult for you to
recognize your holy relationship for what it is. Everyone has a holy
relationship.  Everyone is in a holy relationship insofar as everyone is
a holy Son or Daughter of God who hasn’t changed from what God created
him to be or what God is creating him as, in this moment. And in that
sense, everyone is a holy Son or Daughter of God in a holy relationship.

But, as long as the concept of independence is revered above all else,
and as long as mutual agreements and adjustments have been arrived at
that allow for a certain modicum of harmony to seem to be present,
without actual union of everyone involved, one is not joined, one is not
connected. There is no actual relationship. It’s only what you could
call, “a relationship by association.” The cat is lying by the tree.
There’s a relationship there. But the cat doesn’t know the tree and the
tree doesn’t know the cat. And so there isn’t really a relationship. You
see?

So, now you have had an experience of the Love of God so profoundly,
that you, without a shadow of a doubt, have discovered that you are holy
and that your Brother or Sister is also. And therefore, what made it
difficult for you to see your holy relationship, is not as strong, is
not as confusing, is not as undermining as it had been.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The holy do not interfere with
truth. 
</div> 

Those who are Awake, those who have had an experience of their holiness
do not interfere with truth. The very fact that there was an infilling
of God’s Love in you that transformed your awareness of yourself was an
indicator that you didn’t have to create the experience, that the
experience was awaiting the opportunity, intent upon registering with
you. You see?

When you didn’t interfere with truth, Realization occurred.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The holy do not interfere with
truth. 
</div> 

Those who truly engage in the holy instant do not interfere with truth.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
They are not afraid of it, for it
is within the truth they recognized their holiness, and rejoiced at what
they saw. They looked on it directly, &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; in the holy instant, in the moment of Revelation &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; without attempting to
adjust themselves to it, or it to them. 
</div> 

It was just wholly allowed.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And so they saw that it was IN
them, not deciding first where they would HAVE it be. Their looking,
&hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; their practice of the holy instant &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Their looking merely asked a
question, and it was what they SAW that answered them. YOU &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; and I’m going to add, “on the other hand” &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
YOU make the world and THEN adjust
to it, and it to you. 
</div> 

That’s what the orphan does. That’s what the independent one does—the
one independent from the Father and the one who actually has established
independence from his brother or sister with whom he got the divorce
from this Father. You see the unexpected consequence of engaging in an
illusion—or I’m going to say, a delusion.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
YOU make the world and THEN adjust
to it, and it to you. Nor is there any difference between yourself and
it in your perception, which made them BOTH. 
</div> 

You see? You decided who you were and you decided what the world was.
No, I’m going to put it this way: You decided who you were and you
decided what the Kingdom of Heaven was and you called it something else.
But you created them both, and thus you made adjustments which
completely covered over the Kingdom of Heaven and the holy Son or
Daughter of God that you Are, from your conscious experience.

This is what the holy relationship moves you beyond, this is what the
practice of the holy instant moves you beyond.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
A simple question yet remains, and
needs an answer. Do you LIKE what you have made? – a world of murder and
attack, through which you thread your timid way through constant
dangers, alone and frightened, &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; and I’m going to add: excited at it all, &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; hoping at most that death
will wait a little longer before it overtakes you and you disappear?
</div> 

Why? Because of the adventure of it, the potential of overcoming the
threat—excitement that you never had as a holy Son or Daughter of God in
the middle of the Kingdom of Heaven.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
YOU MADE THIS UP. It is a picture
of what you think YOU are; of how you see YOURSELF &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; how the orphan sees itself. Which of course, wasn’t something
you planned on when you first said, “Father, I want a divorce. I want to
define everything for myself.”

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
A murderer IS frightened, and those
who kill FEAR death. All these are but the fearful thoughts of those who
would adjust themselves to a world made fearful by their adjustments.
</div> 

Amazing huh?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And they look out in sorrow from
what is sad within, and see the sadness THERE. 
</div> 

But gloriously, this is what you experience relief from when you engage
genuinely and humbly in the holy instant and let your holiness be
revealed to you, together with the holiness of your Brother or Sister.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Have you not wondered what the
world is REALLY like; &hellip;
</div> 

Oh, yes, I know. The world is not real. The world is an illusion. The
world doesn’t exist. But then, why would I have said this:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Have you not wondered what the
world is REALLY like; &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; well what world are we talking about? It’s the world that
adjustments have been made to. That’s the world.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Have you not wondered what the
world is REALLY like; &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; without the adjustments applied to it that have been applied to
it?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Have you not wondered what the
world is REALLY like; how it would look through HAPPY eyes? The world
you see is but a judgment on yourself. It is not there at all. 
</div> 

Key words: *The world you see.* The world you see as a result of the
adjustments you have made, *is not there at all*.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet judgment lays a sentence on it,
justifies it, and makes it REAL. Such is the world you see; a judgment
on yourself, and made by YOU. 
</div> 

And I will say … *overlaid upon the Kingdom of Heaven without changing
the Kingdom of Heaven one bit*.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This sickly picture of yourself is
carefully preserved by the ego, whose image it is and which it loves,
and placed outside you in the world. And to this world must you adjust,
as long as you believe this picture is outside, and has you at its
mercy. 
</div> 

Key point: *only* &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; as long as you believe
this picture is outside, and has you at its mercy.

This world IS merciless, and were it outside you, you should indeed be
fearful.  Yet it was you who MADE it merciless, and now if mercilessness
seems to look back at you, &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; what? &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; it can be CORRECTED
&hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; because you can change your mind. You can look anew. You can
engage in the holy instant. You can dare to conceive that God possibly
is All-in-All and that you are the direct Expression of God in which All
that God is, is embodied. And that your place in this, is one of being
that which acknowledges God as your Source—That which is presencing
Itself right where you see yourself. You see? It can be corrected
because you made it up.

Now you won’t be able to do it by going out and trying to change “the
world.” The experience of Who and What you divinely Are needs to
register with you first, because in that realization of divinity does
the divinity of everything become revealed for you as a fact.

This then gives you the courage and the ability to abandon the world of
adjustments that you have habitually created and reinforced, but which
you know enough now to let go of without any sense of real loss.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Who in a holy relationship can long
remain unholy?

[Repeats] Who in a holy relationship can long remain unholy? The world
the holy see is one with them, just as the world the ego looks upon is
like itself. 
</div> 

It’s the same old question, which voice are you going to listen to? The
Voice for Truth or the voice for fear—the Holy Spirit or the ego?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The world the holy see is beautiful
because they see their innocence in it.  They did not tell it what it
was; they did not make adjustments to fit their orders. They gently
questioned it and whispered, "What are you?"
</div> 

Like I said, when you practice the two-step, the holy instant, you
become still, you still the thinking. And in the quietness you say,
“Father, what is the truth here?” The holy &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; gently questioned it and
whispered, "What are you?" And He Who watches over all perception
answered. 
</div> 

That’s what happened in the holy instant when your holiness was revealed
to you. That’s what happens in the holy instant when your holiness IS
revealed to you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Take not the judgment of the world
as answer to the question, "What am I?"

The world BELIEVES in sin, &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; no, wait a minute, what world? The world &hellip; the world you
see believes in sin, because the world you see is the result of
adjustments you have made to the Kingdom of Heaven. And so, naturally it
is impossible for you to conceive of a world that isn’t governed by
adjustments, when adjustments that you have created, created the world
you’re looking at.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The world BELIEVES in sin, &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; in adjustments, because you, through your adjustments, created
the world you see.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; but the belief that made
it as you see it is not outside you. Seek not to make the Son of God
ADJUST to his insanity. 
</div> 

Whew! That is the proper description of the human condition, where
everyone seeks to make the Son of God adjust to insanity. And that’s
what the holy instant is the exit from.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There IS a stranger in him,
&hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; the Son of God &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; who wandered carelessly
into the home of truth, and who will wander off.  He came without a
purpose, but he will not remain before the shining light the Holy Spirit
offered, and you accepted. For there the stranger is made homeless
&hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; the orphan, the one who indulged in making adjustments.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For there the stranger is made
homeless and YOU &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; the holy Son of God, the holy Daughter of God &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; are welcome. 
</div> 

Hey &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Ask not this transient stranger,
"What am I?" He is the only thing in all the universe that does not
know. Yet it is he you asked, and it is to his answer that you would
adjust. 
</div> 

That’s the way it *has* been working. And if, after your Vision, after
your transforming experience of the Father’s Love, if you out of habit
ask again of this transient stranger &hellip; well, you must catch
yourself and abandon the question and get back in the holy instant,
remember your holiness, and be consistent with it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This one wild thought, fierce in
its arrogance, and yet so tiny and so meaningless it slips unnoticed
through the universe of truth, becomes your guide. 
</div> 

This concept or idea of what you are—the adjusted you—is just a
collection of concepts, minuscule, meaningless.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To it you turn to ask the meaning
of the universe. And of the one blind thing in all the seeing universe
of truth you ask, "How shall I look upon the Son of God?"
</div> 

You see? These things are things that you will become aware of as
clarification of how the illusion worked when you join in a holy
relationship with a brother or a sister.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Does one ask judgment of what is
totally BEREFT of judgment? And if you have, would you BELIEVE the
answer, and adjust to it as if it were the truth? 
</div> 

Well, you would and you have, but you don’t have to anymore. And you
realize this in the clarity of your experiencing yourself as the holy
Son or Daughter of God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The world you look on is the answer
that it gave you, and YOU have given it power to adjust the world to
MAKE its answer true. You asked this puff of madness for the meaning of
your unholy relationship, and adjusted it according to its insane
answer. 
</div> 

You see, this is not an indictment. This is clarity—the kind of clarity
that one experiences as a result of the active engagement in a holy
relationship.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
How happy did it make you? Did you
meet with joy, to bless the Son of God, and give him thanks for all the
happiness which he held out to you? 
</div> 

Well &hellip; no, not hardly, because [chuckling] you, looking through
your adjustments, saw someone in need of adjustment, and someone to
create adjustments called, “mutual agreements” with, to protect yourself
against his unscrupulousness, which had to be there because it was part
and parcel of your need to make adjustments in your perception of him in
the first place.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Did you recognize each other as the
eternal gift of God to you? 
</div> 

No, but now you are able to look at your brother, your brothers and
sisters, and acknowledge that. You are able to look at your brothers and
sisters, and, I’m going to say, determine it to be true, so that your
thinking is consistent with the truth and aligns you with the capacity
to experience it beyond thought.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Did you see the holiness that shone
in both of you, to bless the other? That is the purpose of your HOLY
relationship. 
</div> 

That’s the purpose of this relationship you now find yourself
experiencing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Ask not the means of its attainment
of the one thing that still would have it be unholy. 
</div> 

Don’t in your, let’s say, immaturity of experience of a holy
relationship, return to that voice you used to inquire of to find out
how to proceed. That’s all it means.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Give it NO power to adjust the
means and end.

Prisoners bound with heavy chains for years, starved and emaciated, weak
and exhausted, and with eyes so long cast down in darkness they remember
not the light, do not leap up in joy the instant they are made free. It
takes a while for them to understand what freedom IS. You groped but
feebly in the dust and found each other’s hand, uncertain whether to let
it go, or to take hold on life so long forgotten. Strengthen your hold,
and raise your eyes unto your strong companion, &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; the brother whose hand you’re holding, the sister whose hand
you’re holding in this new experience of holy relationship &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; in whom the meaning of
your freedom lies. He seemed to be crucified beside you. And yet his
holiness remained untouched and perfect, and with him beside you, you
shall this day enter with him to Paradise, and know the peace of God.
</div> 

That simply means, to experience being infinitely without any
adjustments placed between you and what you are experiencing, causing
you to not see what it truly Is and keeping you from feeling your
Oneness with It.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Such is my will for both of you,
and for each of you for one another, and for himself. Here there is only
holiness and joining without limit. For what is Heaven but union, direct
and perfect, and without the veil of fear upon it?  Here are we one,
looking with perfect gentleness upon each other, and on ourselves. Here
all thoughts of any separation between us becomes impossible.  You who
were prisoners in separation are now made free in Paradise. And here
would I unite with you, my friends, my brothers and my Self. Your gift
unto each other has given me the certainty our union will be soon.

Share, then, this faith with me, and know that it is justified. There is
no fear in perfect love BECAUSE it knows no sin, &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; no adjustments made to anything.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and it must look on others
as on itself. Looking with charity within, what can it fear WITHOUT? The
innocent see safety, and the pure in heart see God within His Son, and
look unto the Son to lead them to the Father. And where else would they
go but where they will to be? Each of you now will lead the other to the
Father as surely as God created His Son holy, and kept him so.  In your
brother is the light of God’s eternal promise of your immortality.
</div> 

Here that again:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In your brother &hellip; In your
brother is the light of God’s eternal promise of your immortality.
</div> 

Your brother is absolutely essential.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
See HIM as sinless, and there can
BE no fear in you. 
</div> 

Now that’s the end of this Section. And before I end, I must bring out
the fact, that to see the holiness of your brothers, to function in the
world in light of your realization that each and every one are holy Sons
and Daughters of God, you are going to be called upon to deal with those
in whom correction is called for, because they do not see this yet.

And when it says here that you will see the innocence of your brother,
it means that you will see what is true about him and you will disagree
with what is not true about him.

And when your brother comes to you and asks of you for something
harmful, for something that keeps the illusion alive, for something that
would demean you or cause you to sacrifice your clarity, your
recognition of their innocence will require you to give what is needed
and which is revealed to you on the spot!  It will not be a prepared
response, but it will embody the experience of two of my disciples who
came upon a beggar at a gate asking for alms. Their response was:
“Silver and gold have we none, but what we have we will give you.”[^2]

So your recognition of the holiness and the innocence of your brother
will cause you to say, “I cannot give you what you are asking for. I
don’t have that, but here’s what I have.” And you will share the
correcting truth, the healing truth that comes to you on the spot, new
and fresh and unrehearsed.  Why? Because you’ve been willing to connect
with the holiness in that one and be able to be Real with him.

So you will not be foolish. What I just finished reading, which sounds
very idyllic in a way, will prepare you to be joined carefully and
wisely with the conscious intent not to introduce any
adjustments—meaning any of your own personal concepts—and to respond
from the unadjusted union with the Holy Spirit, which is your right
Mind.

This is the way transformation will occur.

I love you very much.  Love each other likewise. And I look forward to
being with you next time.

[^1]: T20.3 Sin as an Adjustment
[^2]: Bible: Acts 3:6

