---
title: Oct 21, 2015
ref: Disucssion
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

For the last few weeks we&rsquo;ve been discussing looking into our
brother&rsquo;s eyes and remembering God (instead of looking into our
brother&rsquo;s eyes and seeing our definition of them or their
definition of themselves), and that the call at the present time around
your globe is for the bringing forth of acts of humanity&mdash;the call
for behavior that embodies Love, that embodies respect, that embodies
the honoring of the divinity of everyone you come in contact with. And
in fact, it needs to be extended to every thing on your globe&mdash;the
Earth itself, the life, the plants, and so on and so forth.

Honor and respect need to be brought to it all because it is all the
divine expression of God. Why? As I&rsquo;ve been saying before, because
you are smack dab in the middle of the Kingdom of Heaven, calling it
something else and, in the process of calling it something else,
treating it inhumanely&mdash;treating it without respect, treating it as
though it is there to fulfill selfish purposes.  The opposite of Gift.

Inhumanity to man must be replaced with humanity itself. And humanity is
not an idea, it&rsquo;s an expression&mdash;a behavior! That makes all
the difference in the world, because it&rsquo;s not manipulative and
because it bestows on the recipient of the behavior, a fundamental
knowledge of holiness.

This is what is needed.

One would think that this would be embraced enthusiastically. But, of
course, it&rsquo;s not. It&rsquo;s not because it means many&mdash;the
majority&mdash;would have to abandon, give up, all of the means they
have used to make themselves important, respectable and as wealthy as
possible &hellip; and, at the expense of others if necessary &hellip; or
even if possible. It becomes a goal.

Now someone recently, since I have been sharing these needs, these
ideas, suggested that maybe Paul is no longer &ldquo;channeling&rdquo;
Jesus because what&rsquo;s being said is inconsistent with the Course,
in that it would bring truth to illusion &hellip; it would bring truth
to illusion &hellip; as though letting one&rsquo;s brother be the focus
of his attention was to bring truth to an illusion.

But let&rsquo;s be clear on what it means to bring truth to illusion.

Here&rsquo;s an example of bringing truth to illusion:

One looks at the world and says, &ldquo;Oh, it&rsquo;s a material world
that started from a &lsquo;Big Bang.&rsquo; It is a physical event
&hellip; a purely physical event that can be explained through physics
&hellip; and it has nothing to do with anything other than matter,
period.&rdquo;

In other words, there&rsquo;s nothing beyond or before the Big Bang.
There is no God.  And so, to look at the world and apply a definition to
it that says, &ldquo;it is a material world&rdquo; is to bring truth to
illusion.

In other words it is not true that the world is a physical material
universe, but to declare that it is, is to make a truth of the
statement, a truth of the concept. And so truth has been brought to
something which is not true and has been applied to it, and everyone has
been encouraged to embrace that concept.  That&rsquo;s bringing truth to
illusion.

What&rsquo;s bringing truth to illusion? It&rsquo;s looking at a brother
or a sister and saying: &ldquo;God, she&rsquo;s ugly!&rdquo; or
&ldquo;Boy, what a deformity that fellow has. It&rsquo;s a shame
isn&rsquo;t it!&rdquo; And what is seen, and the definition given to it,
is treated as though it&rsquo;s true &hellip; as though it is truth
&hellip; even though at the bottom line, it doesn&rsquo;t at all reflect
or express anything of the holiness and integrity and perfection of
those individuals. But! It&rsquo;s taken to be the truth and it&rsquo;s
not challenged.

How do you bring truth to illusion?[^1] You say that &ldquo;life is
terminal.&rdquo; You say that &ldquo;sin, sickness and death are
real.&rdquo; &ldquo;Everyone will die.&rdquo; &ldquo;It&rsquo;s a
fact&rdquo; &hellip; you see? &hellip; even though Life is eternal.
&ldquo;Oh, everyone will die.&rdquo; That&rsquo;s making a truth out of
illusion. That&rsquo;s bringing truth, or the idea of truth, to an
illusion and applying it to the illusion and stating it as a fact
&hellip; which therefore one would not bother to challenge.

Oh, I know &hellip; it is said that, &ldquo;Well, it&rsquo;s the truth
for now. But after you die and you go to Heaven, you discover that all
along you&rsquo;ve been eternal and you are eternal and life is
eternal.&rdquo; You see? And so, one weasel&rsquo;s his way out of any
need to challenge the &ldquo;truths&rdquo; that had been conceived,
imagined and applied, and which cause one to never look into his
brother&rsquo;s eyes and remember God, and never to look at someone with
a disease and see healing occur, or challenge the terminality of a
disease successfully. That&rsquo;s bringing truth to illusion. You see?

Now the problem is, that when one talks about what I&rsquo;ve just
shared, of bringing truth to illusion, when one looks and sees a
material world and universe where birth, sin, sickness and death are
&ldquo;facts,&rdquo; where humanity is nothing but a collection of
psychological neuroses, we&rsquo;ll say, or concepts that are arising
out of electrical synapsis in the brain&mdash;a piece of meat&mdash;when
one looks at that, one takes that as the starting point. And
that&rsquo;s where the mistake lies. If you take that as the starting
point, you&rsquo;re taking that as the given&mdash;as the fundamental
fact. Truth has been brought to illusion.

And so, one is stuck. One has no way out.

But if you&rsquo;re going to bring illusion to truth, your starting
point must be &hellip; that God is All. And the Movement of the infinite
Mind that God is, is the Movement of Creation. And Creation is the,
I&rsquo;m going to say, emergence of Ideas forever new. And those Ideas
are perfectly experienceable by the Mind that forms them. And on that
basis, in spite of what everyone has been educated to believe, everyone
is in the middle of the Kingdom of Heaven.

With this as the fundamental starting point, then you look at whatever
is in front of you in your world&mdash;which currently you are defining
as a &ldquo;material world and universe&rdquo;&mdash;and you desire to
see the more of what God is Being right there than registers with you
when you are looking at it through your very confined definitions and
beliefs. You see?

So, you must look into your brother&rsquo;s eyes. Why? To see God. And
you must look at the trees and the plants and the fish. Why? To see
God&mdash;to see the more of what&rsquo;s there than your limited
definitions are allowing you to see. This is the way you bring illusion
to truth.

You bring illusion to truth by looking at what you are deluded about
with a very specific desire to see the Truth of it &hellip; to see the
Presence of God there. And this is absolutely consistent with what the
Course teaches. It is the function of the holy instant&mdash;the
practice of which puts you in a position of having the Father&rsquo;s
Perspective revealed to you because you&rsquo;re willing to abandon what
you thought everything was, in favor of the experience of what God is
actually Being &hellip; so that you might wake up to the Truth. Do you
see?

It&rsquo;s very simple and straight-forward.

What makes it complicated is the devotion you have to your concept or
definition of yourself which, of course, not acknowledging and honoring
your holiness, causes you to engage in the very manipulations that I was
speaking of &hellip; where you manipulate and control to the best of
your ability and with the greatest skill you have available to you, to
cause your brother to behave nicely toward you and to in any way
possible get him to cross your palms with silver and make you wealthy,
even if in the process he becomes a little poorer.

And if you&rsquo;re really skillful, you can make him feel not so bad
about being poorer. You see? All of this because you don&rsquo;t Know
who you Are.

You think you are a mortal. You think you are, perhaps, part of
God&rsquo;s Creation who has been given free will and set you free to
pursue your life&rsquo;s goals &hellip; your health, wealth and
happiness &hellip; on your own.

If you believe that, then it is not a very interesting prospect to
consider yielding to the Father&mdash;yielding up your authority that
you think you have&mdash;losing the benefit of screwing your brothers
and sisters out of their good, to your benefit, and hopefully being able
to do it in a way that causes them not to feel bad.

Now, the only way you can look into your brother&rsquo;s eyes and
remember God, is to want to see God yourself&mdash;is to want to have a
different perspective than the one you&rsquo;re currently employing. And
as I&rsquo;ve said before, it doesn&rsquo;t have to be a terminal
disease or a horrendous life situation to put you at a point of
willingness to reach beyond your apparent capacities that you thought
would always be sufficient to keep you &ldquo;healthy, wealthy and
wise.&rdquo; It doesn&rsquo;t take that.

But, when you decide you want to Wake up without a catastrophe
motivating it, it takes some conscientiousness. It takes some courage,
because you&rsquo;re used to being able to exercise control pretty well.
And it feels good. And it feels right. And it says something to you
about your nature and your character &hellip; all of which feeds your
ego.

Now, if you think that practicing the holy instant, or if you think that
anything in the Course in Miracles is geared toward the improvement of
your ego, the improvement of your ability to be independent,
you&rsquo;re wrong. And it&rsquo;s important to know that.

It&rsquo;s going to move you out of that. It&rsquo;s going to move you
into a new &ldquo;space.&rdquo; That&rsquo;s where the courage comes in.
And that&rsquo;s where the fulfillment awaits. And that&rsquo;s where
the persistence and the commitment come into play.

Now, the holy instant&mdash;the two-step, as I&rsquo;ve called
it&mdash;where you shut up your thinking and you meditate, or in some
way become still in your mind, and then you let there be a single idea,
&ldquo;Father, share with me the Truth.&rdquo; &ldquo;What is the Truth
that it&rsquo;s my Birthright to be experiencing, that returns my Sanity
to me?&rdquo; &hellip;

[Now it doesn&rsquo;t take that many words, but that&rsquo;s the meaning
behind the simple thought in the middle of the Silence that you&rsquo;ve
chosen to move into.]

&hellip; Now, when the Revelation occurs, when the Father or the Holy
Spirit conveys to you the Truth, you are moved by It. It changes you.
And if you are with someone when this is happening, and you share what
you&rsquo;re experiencing&mdash;you share what you&rsquo;re hearing,
you&rsquo;re sharing the view that you&rsquo;re having and what it
means&mdash;whoever you&rsquo;re sharing it with will feel blessed.

But you know what? You will not have been trying to bless that person.
You will not have been trying to do anything. In fact, here is the
important point: You will not have been self-conscious at all. You
certainly will have been the presence of the movement of illumination in
expression&mdash;an expression that your brother or sister who is with
you could hear and understand and be blessed by&mdash;but that would be
irrelevant to you. That is irrelevant to you when that&rsquo;s
happening. And this is a new experience of who you Are.

It&rsquo;s an experience of being the presence of Love, the presence of
Life, the presence of Truth, the presence of Mind, the presence of Soul,
the presence of Spirit and the fundamental presence of Principle
&hellip; all without trying. And all without an intent to impress or
teach in any way, because you weren&rsquo;t self-conscious. You
didn&rsquo;t have yourself on your mind.

Now, maybe you didn&rsquo;t have yourself on your mind. Maybe you
weren&rsquo;t self-conscious. But you didn&rsquo;t disappear! And
whoever was with you when you were sharing, will have found &ldquo;being
with you&rdquo; to be much more significant and much more valuable than
when you were talking with him or her from your concept of yourself,
from who you thought you were, from the role you were playing as part of
your manipulation of your world to make you happy, healthy, wealthy and
wise. You see?

So, when you become who you Are, which occurs in the holy instant, when
you behave in a new way with your brother or sister from the perspective
of the Father&mdash;the perspective of the Holy Spirit that is revealed
to you&mdash;you&rsquo;re arriving at Home. And the point of the holy
instant is to bring you into that conscious experience of Being which is
unified. Not one where you disappear.  Not one where your presence is
meaningless, but where what the Father is Being right there as You takes
on the fullness of His Creation that He embodied, embodies, is embodying
in You.

It&rsquo;s a different experience.

You could say it feels like a different function. And yet, when
it&rsquo;s happening you don&rsquo;t even have a definition for that.
You just Know that you&rsquo;re Home. You just Know that this is
Reality. It changes the way you experience everything.  Everything looks
like, feels like and is the Kingdom of Heaven to you when you
don&rsquo;t have yourself on your mind, when you&rsquo;re letting the
Father&rsquo;s perspective be what you have on your mind &hellip; when
you let that be what&rsquo;s on your mind.

 As one of the disciples said: &ldquo;Let that mind be in you which was
 also in Christ Jesus.&rdquo;[^2] You see? Then you&rsquo;re being who
 you Are, and &ldquo;understanding&rdquo; who you Are, conceptually,
 intellectually, gets swallowed up in the experience, the fullness, the
 wholeness of being what you Are.

Now, I will share this with you: After the Resurrection my disciples
were left with the call to follow me, to do the works that I did. And
that did not just include my disciples, but all of mankind.
&ldquo;Follow thou me.&rdquo;[^3] Follow me in joining in the holy
instant with the Holy Spirit&mdash;which is nothing more than your right
Mind, your divine Sanity. Join with the Father and be from that vantage
point. And vantage point, are not the right words, but they convey the
meaning.

The message left for all mankind was: Do this! Be from this Perspective!
And don&rsquo;t stop! It will not help you be a better mortal, who will
live longer and make more money. It will let you fit in with the
Movement of Being&mdash;the Presence of God in action called
Creation&mdash;and Gift everything with a clear apprehension of what it
is and acknowledge it. And, in the acknowledgement of it, gift it with
the Love of the recognition of the Father in it.

As you do that, as you begin right where you are, looking into your
brother&rsquo;s eyes, looking at your world, looking at each thing in
it, with the desire to see the more of what God is Being, you are
bringing illusion to Truth and it will be uncovered to you. And it will
be uncovered to you right where your misperception was going on. In
other words, right where the illusion was being perceived.

So do not misunderstand. You must look at the illusion by looking
through it to what is beyond the definition that is keeping your vision
limited, because you don&rsquo;t want to be stuck with surface
appearances and imaginary definitions that aren&rsquo;t true &hellip;
and then call them truth.

Now I want to bring up one more thing. There are elections going on, and
they have been going on in many parts of the world over the past few
months. And there is a clamoring amongst the citizens of these various
countries&mdash;a clamoring for integrity and honesty and a push to have
those who are governing, not be governed by, we&rsquo;ll say, Wall
Street or the big money around the globe.

They want their politicians to stop selling their souls. Because as long
as they have sold their souls they can&rsquo;t afford to be honest,
because they have to serve the ones who own their soul, the ones with
whom they have a contract, when supposedly they are supposed to have the
contract with the people they represent. And there is a lot of
self-righteousness expressed about those who have sold their souls. But
there&rsquo;s no love in that, and there&rsquo;s no perspective in that.
And there&rsquo;s much need for perspective, because with perspective
there can be love.

The saying is: People who live in glass houses shouldn&rsquo;t throw
stones.

There&rsquo;s almost no one who can hear my voice who hasn&rsquo;t sold
their soul already.  They sold their soul to a partnership with another
brother or sister, holy Sons or Daughters of God, by making a pact and
together saying to the Father, &ldquo;We&rsquo;d rather do it our
way,&rdquo; and &ldquo;human will&rdquo; was born. And the human wills
were orphans because they had disowned their Father&mdash;their Source.

We&rsquo;ve talked about this before, but I&rsquo;m bringing it out in
this context because it&rsquo;s important.

Don&rsquo;t be self-righteously, mean-spiritedly critical of your
brothers who have sold themselves to big money, or to a constituency or
to an organization, because you have done likewise.

You sell your soul to your wife. You don&rsquo;t want to make her mad,
and so you&rsquo;re careful what you say. You don&rsquo;t want to make
enemies with your family, and so you are dishonest at times. You also
want to be, let us say, a good &ldquo;father,&rdquo; and a good
&ldquo;husband,&rdquo; or a good &ldquo;wife,&rdquo; or a good
&ldquo;son,&rdquo; and so you&rsquo;re dishonest in the attempt to fit a
concept of what a good son, a good husband, a good wife and so on, is.
You&rsquo;re willing to do whatever it takes to fulfill a role, when you
aren&rsquo;t in touch with your soul.

Now here&rsquo;s what needs to be looked at: How do you get in touch
with your soul again? In other words, how do you arrive at a point where
you shift from selling your soul to sharing your soul? The only way to
do it, no matter what words are used to express it is, what is embodied
and shared in A Course in Miracles. It is through the practice of the
holy instant for the purpose of having a holy relationship. And
we&rsquo;ve already talked about that.

It requires setting aside your best judgments, your best definitions,
your best skills at manipulating without upsetting people too much, and
even perhaps making them feel good. It means abandoning those things. It
means abandoning control, and it means becoming still as a role,
becoming still as a personality, becoming free of being the best or the
highest or the most worthwhile. It means abandoning being
self-conscious, where you have yourself on your mind. And it means in
the silence within you leaning into something other than you&mdash;at
least at that moment what you think you are&mdash;and letting yourself
be filled with the conscious awareness of what is Real, what is True,
and then being from there and not abandoning that position.

Now, until you can do that, you cannot afford to be self-righteously
indignant at your fellowman who&rsquo;s not sharing his soul either
because he has sold it and is still serving the one or ones to whom he
has sold it.

Now, let&rsquo;s be perfectly clear. That doesn&rsquo;t mean that you
approve of the behavior that comes from those who have sold their soul.
But the correction that is called for is not going to come through the
normal channels of manipulation. And I&rsquo;m being perfectly clear
here with you, because every single individuality on your globe has the
opportunity to be part of the shift that isn&rsquo;t one of
&ldquo;manipulation,&rdquo; of &ldquo;control,&rdquo; where the
furtherance of self-righteousness and egotism can occur.

The call is for everyone to dare to take seriously the meaning of the
holy instant and the desire for a holy relationship and persisting in
the attempt, in the intent and in the accomplishment of it, more, and
more, and more, and more, until it is continuous, because you have
discovered that it is too uncomfortable to not be able to share your
soul. It&rsquo;s too uncomfortable not to Gift everything with the
acknowledgement of what it truly Is. It&rsquo;s too confining,
it&rsquo;s too dark, it&rsquo;s too miserable &hellip; and besides
it&rsquo;s full of sin, sickness and death. You see?

You are the unself-conscious presence of Mind, being the flow of the
Movement of God and being utterly appropriate in every moment, blessing
everything in every moment because you&rsquo;re playing your part as
co-creator in recognizing and acknowledging God in it All, without
having yourself on your mind for a moment.  And I will tell you that
that is utter freedom and it is utter bliss and it is your Birthright.

Don&rsquo;t hesitate to bring illusion to truth and do stop bringing
truth to illusion.

I love you all and I look forward to being with you next time.

[^1]: Correction
[^2]: Philippians 2:5 (KJV)
[^3]: John 21:22

