---
title: Jan 31, 2018
ref: "Discussion"
---

Good morning. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the Internet.

Yesterday was a day that a lot of people gave attention to&mdash;not just in
the United States but around the world as well&mdash;because a State of the
Union message was delivered.

People listened, Governments listened, to find out whether
there was something more to be concerned about or something to be
relieved about.

And so, we&rsquo;re going to talk about a State of the Union message&mdash;not the
one that was given, but the one that everyone is living, whether they&rsquo;re
conscious of it or not. If one is not conscious of there being a State
of the Union that they are a part of, they are concerned, they are
fearful, and it becomes exhausting. And the reason is, that they don&rsquo;t
know who they Are. And they are helped not to know who they Are by
distraction.

In many ways the State of the Union message that was delivered was
really a State of the Business address&mdash;an exposition of commercial and
financial progress and opportunity, and not having much to do with,
let&rsquo;s say, the individuals employed by the business of America&mdash;meaning
the citizens of America.

Now, if indeed, the citizens of America are the employees of the
business called America, then they have an opportunity, by the simple
sheer force of their numbers, to form a Union. And to be a member of a
Union, to be a part of a Union, is a far different experience from being
the slave of those who manage the business, those who run the business,
those who conduct business for their benefit and in competition with
other businesses around the globe, all of which are, shall I say,
fleshed out&mdash;carrying out the manufacturing aspects of the business&mdash;by
the citizens of those countries, who in many cases think they have no
options because the idea of Union is disallowed, discouraged, and not
allowed to grow. This is very important.

If you stop and think about it, those who are governed far out-number
those who engage in governing. The majority, for lack of better words,
play the role of being &ldquo;the governed.&rdquo; And it does not represent
democracy. And I&rsquo;m not talking politics here. I&rsquo;m talking fairness that
values every single individual and looks for equality for each and every
individual because the individual rather than the business is what
matters.

All government is self-government. The only problem is that far too many
individuals don&rsquo;t realize that they are governing themselves in the role
of being &ldquo;the governed,&rdquo; without equality, without equal presence,
without equal voice. And they have been conditioned to believe this. But
it&rsquo;s not true.

All government is self-government. The shift from identifying one&rsquo;s self
as being one of the governed to the awareness that one is always
governing himself for good or for ill, for himself &hellip; there&rsquo;s all the
difference in the world because the latter empowers every single
individual, whereas the former is a practice of disempowerment, and
therefore of distress, of abuse, of misery. And it&rsquo;s all developed on a
false premise.

Now, just humanly speaking, let&rsquo;s take a look at the preamble to the
Constitution of the United States. This is a fundamental of democracy,
even more, it&rsquo;s a fundamental of human existence everywhere on the
globe, everywhere there is a human being, everywhere there is that which
is alive.

It says&mdash;important word&mdash;&ldquo;WE the People.&rdquo; Not WE the business man, not WE
the corporations. &ldquo;We the People&rdquo;&mdash;the people who laugh and cry, the
people who are happy or sad, the people who feel well or not well. Those
who all understand each other in these terms, and recognize their
equality in all of these respects &hellip;

&ldquo;We the People, in order to form a more perfect Union&rdquo;

Forming a union? Forming a union against something? No. Forming a
union of themselves, saying,

We&mdash;the People who have lived under domination, who have lived under
tyranny, who have lived under King and serfdom dynamics &hellip;

We the People do this in order to form a more perfect union of
ourselves&mdash;in our dignity, in our presence, in who and what we Are, in
what we have in common, because we recognize each others&rsquo; needs. Because
we&rsquo;ve been under distress from apparently outside forces by those who
seemed to govern us, when we didn&rsquo;t realize we were governing ourselves
poorly.

And so, now we are doing something different.

&ldquo;We the People, in order to form a more perfect union&rdquo; for each and
every one of us, &ldquo;to establish justice&rdquo; for each and every one of us,
&ldquo;to insure domestic tranquility&rdquo; for each and every one of us, &ldquo;to
provide for the common defense&rdquo; of each and every one of us&mdash;not just the
rich or the good or the Christians, no, for every single one of us&mdash;&ldquo;to
promote the general welfare&rdquo; for each and every one of us, &ldquo;and secure
the lessons, the blessings of liberty&rdquo; for each and every one of us, &ldquo;to
ourselves and our posterity, do ordain and establish this Constitution,&rdquo;
this set of rules that supports, what? Our union. Our honoring our
humanity. Our addressing our human needs because we care, because the
support of each other is of paramount importance, and we know this from
experience of not having had it.&rdquo;

The People, whether they are the People of the United States of America,
or the People of Czechoslovakia, or the People of England, or the People
of any country in the world, these are the ones &hellip; YOU are the ones
who need to stand together in terms of your dignity and your worth and
your deserving of every good thing that procures peace and blessing and
harmony and tranquility and safety. You&rsquo;re already the largest presence
of &ldquo;We the People&rdquo;&mdash;every single one of you on the globe!

Now, I know that many, many, many of you wake up in the morning
wondering what harmful, hurtful news might confront you today. This is
anywhere in the world. And in some places the onslaught of negativity
seems greater than others. And the feeling is discouragement. And the
question arises, [sarcastic chuckle] &ldquo;Well, what can I do? What can puny
little me do?&rdquo; And the question is an expression of hopelessness.

And yet if you understood&mdash;I&rsquo;m going to say, your position&mdash;if you
understood that government is self-government and no one else is
actually forcing you to behave in a self-demeaning way, you will wake up
in the morning and you will say, &ldquo;What can I do?&rdquo; And because that is
the question to be asking, not avoiding, you will ask it of what? Of
yourself? Of the one you think you are at the moment? Of the downtrodden
one who has no capacity? No, you ask of the Holy Spirit or you ask of
God. You ask of That Which Knows, because you are not the puny piss ant
mortal that you&rsquo;ve taught yourself to be, or others have bullied you
into being. You are the holy Son or Daughter of God and, therefore, you
have a right and an obligation to ask, &ldquo;What can I do?&rdquo; expecting that
there is an answer to the question, a resolving answer to the question.

Now I have shared the statement before that, &ldquo;You are neither behind the
point of perfection, nor advancing toward it. You are at that point and
must understand yourself therefrom.&rdquo; So you see, you can&rsquo;t start from a
standpoint of a downtrodden, mistreated, abused, exhausted entity who
has no choice. That isn&rsquo;t what you Are. That&rsquo;s what you think you are,
that&rsquo;s what you have come to believe you are. But your belief hasn&rsquo;t
changed what you divinely Are&mdash;the Expression of God.

Now, in the Bible John said, &ldquo;Now are we the Sons of God.&rdquo;[^1] And I will
say, &ldquo;Now, are we the Sons and Daughters of God.&rdquo; And it does not yet
appear what we shall be. In other words, the future is not relevant.
&ldquo;Now are we the Sons of God and it does not yet appear what we shall be.
But we know that when he&mdash;meaning the Christ&mdash;shall appear we shall be
like him, for we shall see him as he is. And every man that hath this
hope in him purifieth himself daily, even as he is pure.&rdquo; What&rsquo;s that
mean, even as he is pure, even as he is now pure? Because now are we the
Sons of God and now we must understand ourselves in that true light.

You are not governed by those who claim to govern you. If those who
claim to govern you are succeeding, it is because you are yielding your
integrity up in favor of an integrity you are giving to the one in
control. And you are not required to do that. In fact, if you want to
experience your joy, you&rsquo;re going to have to realize that you have
another option. And then you are going to have to engage in taking hold
of it by sincerely asking of the Holy Spirit, &ldquo;What do I need to know?&rdquo;

If the Holy Spirit is nothing more than your right Mind, in other words,
You in your right Mindedness rather than your belief of being something
puny, inconsequential, mistreated and unable to do anything about it,
when you are willing to engage with That of You which cannot be
destroyed and has never gone anywhere, in other words, your right Mind,
your Sanity, when you engage with It the Truth is revealed to you by It.
And we&rsquo;ve talked about this before, but I need to keep bringing it up.

Very often, students of *A Course In Miracles* will say, &ldquo;Well, I just
turn it over to the Holy Spirit. You know, it&rsquo;s like I put the slip of
paper with my need on it,  I put it in the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s inbox and
leave it there for the Holy Spirit to take care of.&rdquo; Well, that isn&rsquo;t
effective. That isn&rsquo;t the way it works because you misunderstand what
the Holy Spirit is. If the Holy Spirit&mdash;as it says in the Course&mdash;is
nothing more than your right Mind, then when you turn it over to the
Holy Spirit you are bringing your attention to the Holy Spirit and you
are saying, &ldquo;Show me the Truth. Reveal to me the Truth that you have
been holding in trust for me while I have been believing I have been an
ego downtrodden and bullied and controlled by others whom I can&rsquo;t do
anything about.&rdquo;

So, this sense of self that you are currently experiencing brings its
attention to That of You which is your divine Sanity, which is
ever-present with you because you can&rsquo;t be separated from It. And in
listening rather than just leaving it in the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s inbox, by
listening, you engage the function of the Holy Spirit, which is to
connect with you in your present limited sense of yourself and reveal to
you the divine one that you Are, uncovering to you your capacity to see
what is Real and what isn&rsquo;t, as well as, revealing to you how to behave
in the circumstances you seem to be in, so that you become free.

When you are miserable, when you are frightened, when you feel as though
things are in control of you that you have no control over, this is
exactly the time that you need to be humble enough to say to yourself,
&ldquo;I don&rsquo;t have all the answers. I don&rsquo;t know enough to come to any
conclusions here, especially ones that immobilize me and cause me to
continue to feel hopeless and, therefore, I will reach outside of my
incapacity and ask the Father or ask the Holy Spirit to reveal the Truth
to me.&rdquo;

Now, the Truth that&rsquo;s going to be revealed isn&rsquo;t going to be a string of
words, it isn&rsquo;t going to be platitudes, it isn&rsquo;t going to be sharp,
wonderful rejoinders that nail the opposition. No. The answers are going
to be meanings felt by you, constituting an experiential understanding,
not an intellectual one in which it&rsquo;s clear to you that whatever a bully
is engaged in, whatever bad behavior people are engaged in, it&rsquo;s
behavior that is occasioned by their being backed into a corner of
helplessness and hopelessness that calls for them to defend themselves
by any means possible, which comes out as bullying or lying or any form
of self-defense that is critical and mean-spirited. You see?

And oh-h, there comes an awareness of Brotherhood because you can
understand feeling that way, and you can understand having responded
with mean-spirited retorts or actions, even though you may not have
adopted that as a style of being. And so, there is room for compassion,
while at the same time being aware that the behavior has to be stopped,
the controlling, the lying, the arrogance and on and on has to stop. But
of course, that&rsquo;s where the fear comes and the feeling is, &ldquo;What can I
do? I don&rsquo;t know how to cope with this.&rdquo; And when you say that, you&rsquo;re
saying, &ldquo;I not only don&rsquo;t have any comprehension of what to do, I am in
such a vulnerable place that I don&rsquo;t want to take the time to find out,
because if I do, I will have to stop defending myself. And that&rsquo;s more
important.&rdquo;

And yet, once again, when you pay attention to what&rsquo;s revealed, such as,
the fact that the one who is behaving badly is behaving that way because
he or she feels cornered, stuck, out of control, vulnerable and must
bring every ounce of personal energy forth to defend himself or herself,
you must ask, &ldquo;What does it take to provide that which will cause that
one to be willing to lower his or her defenses?&rdquo;

You see, under the circumstances you seem to be called to bring into
play the very abuse that you&rsquo;re suffering from as a form of
self-defense, but of course, that isn&rsquo;t the you that is the Son or
Daughter of God, at least not the realized one. And yet you are the Son
or Daughter of God. And I&rsquo;m here to remind you of that. And you need
under the circumstances to remind yourself as well, because that&rsquo;s the
only thing that will suffice to cause you to shift gears.

You&rsquo;re always giving voice to one of the two teachers: the Voice for
Truth or the voice for fear. It&rsquo;s your Function, it&rsquo;s your joy, it&rsquo;s
your healing to give voice to the Voice for Truth and it is your
Brother&rsquo;s healing as well.

Now, are you the Sons and Daughters of God, and it does not yet appear
what you shall be: but now you are the Sons and Daughters of God and you
know that when He&mdash;the Son of God&mdash;shall appear in your Brother or Sister
you shall be like Him; for you will see Him as He is. How will you see
Him as He is? By abandoning your inclination to be in self-defense and
bully back, and asking to know what is the Truth here so that you might
feel your Brotherhood, your equality, your capacities to feel all of the
same important things. And when you hold your Brother in that Vision,
you will see Him as He is and you will be like Him and that will make it
possible for Him to see Himself in You. That&rsquo;s the way it works.

Part of this, an inseparable part of this union, this Brotherhood that
already exists and has existed from the beginning is the fact that as
you see the Truth of another you say, &ldquo;No, to that which doesn&rsquo;t reflect
the Truth.&rdquo; But you do not do it in the form of attack, you do it in the
form of guided education, letting the Expression of Truth that comes out
of your mouth be guided by your connection with the Holy Spirit. You&rsquo;re
turning it over to the Holy Spirit and standing attentive in front of
the Holy Spirit waiting the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s response which is really your
natural, inherent divine wisdom, which it is not only your Birthright to
give Expression to, it&rsquo;s what your Brother deserves because it is that
which heals.

Now, there is cause for rejoicing because you have a way out of the
dilemma, and it&rsquo;s a way that will involve you that will, for lack of
better words, grow you into a fuller experience of what you divinely
Are, which is a joyful experience. But it unavoidably constitutes
involvement with your Brother saying, &ldquo;Yes,&rdquo; to Truth and &ldquo;No,&rdquo; to
illusion and providing the clarity that shows the difference in a way
that has the optimal chance of being understood because you&rsquo;re not doing
it with an edge of anger, or an edge of superiority, but from a place of
Brotherly equality that Brothers and Sisters everywhere can recognize
even if they can&rsquo;t immediately trust it, because they&rsquo;re feeling too
vulnerable still.

So, the State of the Union can&rsquo;t just be expressed as the State of THE
Union, it&rsquo;s not the Union of the thirteen colonies, it&rsquo;s not the Union
of Fifty States. It&rsquo;s the Union of mankind, the Union of all that it
truly means to be human and embracing everyone in the Truth of the
humanity of every single Individuality on your planet and other places.

So, it is not what is the State of the Union, it&rsquo;s what is the State of
your Union? What is the State of your Union? Well, your Union with what?
Your Union with each other. Well, the nature of your Union is
established. &ldquo;Now are we the Sons of God.&rdquo; &ldquo;You are neither behind the
point of perfection nor advancing toward it.&rdquo; The State of your Union is
established fully, completely, unalterably. The State of your Union is
secure. Your Union with your Brothers and Sisters was established by God
in the act of Creation, or let us say, it is established forever in the
now, in the act, the Movement of Creation which is forever new.

The State of your Union is indivisible. &ldquo;Now are you the Sons of God.&rdquo;
It was established indivisible because God is indivisible. And because
it is indivisible it is incapable of being fragmented. Now you all have
experience of fragmentation, but it is only through the use of your
imagination that you have been able to concoct such a discombobulating
[chuckling] frightening experience, but it is an illusion.

The Union of the Brotherhood of Man, the Sisterhood of Women, the
Brotherhood and Sisterhood is indivisible, unfragmented, whole, full of
integrity.

Now, this is what you must get up in the morning and have as your
perspective. This must be your perspective when you turn on the
television or pick up the newspaper. This must be your perspective when
you find yourself being curious to see what god awful thing so-and-so is
doing today, watch the curiosity to see how bad things can get so that
you may self-righteously cluck about it. Because in so doing, you&rsquo;re
playing the orphan, you&rsquo;re being an independent. You are not joined with
the Holy Spirit to want to know what the Truth is and, therefore, you
are caught in that place where abuse can happen and you will feel no
escape from it because you have an investment in seeing the awfulness of
so-and-so. And you are looking from that perspective. You only have two
perspectives available to you, the separatist perspective or the joined
perspective.

Wayne Dyer referred to the ego as, &ldquo;That which edges God out.&rdquo; If you
don&rsquo;t want to be miserable, then when you get up in the morning, be
alert and make sure that you have not slipped into the attitude where
you are edging God out. And be careful when you turn on the TV that
you&rsquo;re not going there to find justification for edging God out. And
instead desire to know the Truth of the Holy Spirit which is the Voice
for Truth, the Voice for God, so that you might know what to say, &ldquo;No&rdquo;
to without anger or self-righteousness or superiority, but that which to
say, &ldquo;No&rdquo; to because it simply is not the Truth and you are not willing
to invest any emotional energy into it. It simply isn&rsquo;t True. It,
therefore, is an illusion, it therefore, is meaningless, it requires you
to do nothing except not accept it and say, &ldquo;No.&rdquo; Vote, &ldquo;No.&rdquo;

The good news is, nobody is governing you no matter where you are on the
globe except the choice of perspective you are choosing to use and
that&rsquo;s what governs your experience, that&rsquo;s what governs your actions.

The answer is: the State of your Union was established in the beginning.
The Union of the Brotherhood at this moment is ultimate. Choose for It!
Choose for what will uncover it, where it&rsquo;s hidden with grace, not with
permissiveness&mdash;with grace. No, stated with grace is adamant. Yes, said
with grace is felt as Love and paves the way for transformation.

It is time on the globe for every single individual to embrace his
humanity. And his humanity is a Wholeness in which all of the Sons and
Daughters of God are held safely. And it&rsquo;s the task of everyone to
choose to be the people who wish to form a perfect Union for each and
every one of us, to establish justice for each and every one of us, to
insure domestic tranquility for each and every one of us&mdash;each and every
one of us everywhere on the globe&mdash;which promotes the general welfare of
every single one of us. That&rsquo;s where things are right now. It&rsquo;s where
things have been for as long as the dream of mortality has been engaged
in.

I am here to do for and with you what you are here to do for and with
each other. You&rsquo;re not always kind to me. You do not always speak well
of me. You sometimes do not like me at all. But that&rsquo;s irrelevant
because your distress is caused by your very narrow perspective and not
by our relationship. And the same thing is true with your fellowman. And
no matter how difficult it seems it will be to make a difference, that&rsquo;s
nothing more than your conditioning. Because the simple act of the
two-step, of going into the holy instant and shutting up all the mind
chatter that gets you fouled up so that in the silence you can say,
&ldquo;Father,&rdquo; or, &ldquo;Holy Spirit, what is the Truth here?&rdquo; That is exactly the
means to have the revelation that undoes the illusion and causes you no
longer to be confused by it, distracted by it, incapable of acting. And
in the clarity of your mind and heart and soul you can feel the Truth,
experience the Truth that there is no way for your Brother or Sister to
be excluded from. And that changes you into, we&rsquo;ll say, a new Being that
heals and transforms. And you will learn to persist with this and
rejoice in it instead of it being reduced to a huddled mass of quivering
fear because you&rsquo;ve taken the bait, hook, line and sinker and forgotten
that you have a choice.

Again, the State of your Union is established. It&rsquo;s secure. It&rsquo;s
indivisible, incapable of being fragmented. And it&rsquo;s at peace and it&rsquo;s
glorious.

I love you very much. And I look forward to being with you next time.

[^1]: Bible: 1 John 3:2-3

