---
title: Mar 11, 2018
ref: "Discussion"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who's joining us on the Internet.

Tonight I wish to speak about Unity, about Union. Not about
division. Not about walls. Not about separating from alliances forged
through hard work and the goal of expressing more and more intelligence
and common sense that meets the human need.

I will say that Paul is having difficulty this evening because he senses
that what I am needing to say is adamant and unequivocal and deals with
a subject that there are strong feelings about &hellip; not only in the
United States but around the world.

It's a curious thing. One can want to know the Truth, one can learn how
to pray by going into the silence &mdash; practicing what we have described
as the two-step, where one shuts up his thinking and his fearing and
says, "Help," &mdash; but the curious thing is, that one may be *afraid* of
what the "Truth" will be or what It will call upon him to do or be.

Also, once having heard, and *knowing* what Truth is, and what the need
is, it can be difficult to be willing to express it if the expectation
is that it will not be well received. And one can get bound up in
immobilization, afraid to do anything because the end result will be
negative &hellip; even though, as the saying goes, "Ye shall know the truth
and the truth shall make you free."[^1] That's the divine law.

Obviously in my lifetime \[chuckling\] I was not well received, and
escorted off the scene abruptly, unkindly. But, my task was to give
voice to the Voice for Truth. It's not wise to give lip-service to the
ideas expressed in *A Course In Miracles* and not act upon them, not let
them change your behavior. And so, the requirement is that no matter
how, shall I say, "hostile" the environment is to Truth, one must insist
upon engaging in the two-step, entering into the holy instant desiring
to hear the Truth, and then being still enough to let it in. And there
are times that that takes courage. There are times when that is not
easy. That is exactly when it is essential to persist.

Paul has sat here for almost three hours, arriving at a point where he
was willing to listen, to hear what I would have to say. That's
persistence, that's courage.

Now, the simple fact or, shall I say, the simple illusion is, that there
is a concerted effort going on around your globe being fueled from the
head of the United States that is divisive, that is insisting upon being
offensive, abusive, inconsiderate, thoughtless, arrogant. The saying is,
"Make America Great Again," or France should make *itself* great and
take care of *itself,* or any other country. Cooperation needs to be
put on the back burner so as to make greatness of the individual
isolated countries be increased.

You know, the thought is that the Christ would not occupy himself with
such mundane earthly details, and would be speaking about wonderful,
eternal, divine facts. But why am I called a "Wayshower," if the
Wayshower isn't one who says, "This way and not that way," who says,
"'Yes' *and* 'No,'"

"Thy will, not mine be done."[^2]

That's "yes" to God and "no" to my will. And it isn't something to
*talk* about, it's something to *be.* It's something to practice.

There is an increasing need to say, "No!" There is an increasing need to
say, "This must stop!" The divisiveness that is so flagrantly and loudly
being broadcast around the globe needs to yield to &hellip; Love.

It needs to yield to that which Unites rather than disintegrates.

And so, as the Wayshower, I'm here tonight in the name of Unity to say:
Everyone must come to the place within himself where he's willing to be
clear about the "Yes" *and* the "No." But it has to start with the "No."

So, everyone around the globe, as I discussed in our last meeting on
January 31st, knows what human need is, knows what needs are that must
be met. Everyone feels that need. And everyone knows, who's in the place
of experiencing real need, that the practice and exercise of force
&mdash; of the sort that a bully uses &mdash; is not what meets the
need, whether one is puffing himself up to be loud and arrogant to try
to coerce others into behaving nicely, or whether it's dealing with
someone else who is doing that. It doesn't meet the need.

Unity does &hellip; Unity does.

So, what does one do? Well, one does what Paul is doing right now. One
ignores the discomfort, the fear, the reluctance to be in a position of
being judged, and listens for the Truth so that the answer can be given.

Now, tonight's meeting will not be as long as usual because it is not so
much a teaching that we're engaging in, as it is the initiation of a
little lab work, if you will &hellip; meaning that I'm going to be giving
everyone a task.

You are listening. I am sharing.

Now, it is necessary to be able to say, "I disagree with the direction
things are going in. I disagree with the attempts that are being made in
many places around the globe to divide and disintegrate Unity. I
disagree with that. But I know that just disagreeing with it is not
enough, it has to be *replaced* with something."

The saying is, "There is nothing more powerful than an idea whose time
has come."[^3] And there is an Idea whose time has come, and the
*expression* of that Idea is the lab work that I'm inviting everyone to
engage in between now and the next time we get together---which is
likely only to be a week.

Now, there is a nice neat little saying emblazoned on the front of red
caps and expressed all over the place, "Make America Great Again." Now,
we're not going to agree with making America great, or other countries
making themselves great, *not in alliance with anyone else*. We're not
going to agree with making one's self great. And so, the Idea whose time
has come that is the antidote to Make America Great Again is this, very
simply:

"Make Brotherhood Great Again"

Just be with that for a moment.

Everything involved in Brotherhood leads to, as we discussed last time,
a more perfect Union. Every step taken, whether it's in the conducting
of business or politics *or anything,* must arise out of the meaning and
value and nature of Brotherhood, so that it supports Brotherhood &hellip;
because that's how Union is brought forth.

Make Brotherhood Great Again. Why would it be *again?* Well, Brotherhood
is the original state of the Sons and Daughters of God. That experience
seems to have been lost as Brother and Sister joined with each other to
say *they* wanted to determine what everything was, instead of yielding
to and embracing and confirming what the *Father* was expressing &hellip;
*is* Expressing.

Now, here's the task for the week: Find as many occasions during every
day as you can to express the need to "Make Brotherhood Great Again."
*Use those specific words* because they are the specific antidote to
Make America Great Again, make France great again, make *anything* great
again at the expense of, or exclusive of anything.

People understand what Brotherhood is. Pay attention within yourself to
what it means to you. Because what it means to you is something that you
can feel the Truth of, so that it's more than just an expression of an
intellectual idea when you say it or share it.

Media is giving humongous coverage to all of the suggestions of the need
for independence, separation, exclusion, the building of walls, the
withdrawing from agreements and alliances.

Let *this* phrase find expression. Get it out into the course of human
experience, whether you're chatting with a friend at the coffee shop or
at a grocery store or with a friend over the phone. Find a way to
express the feeling you have that the answer to these problems is:
Making Brotherhood Great Again, and letting Brotherhood be *the motive
for behavior.* Go on twitter. Use (hash-tag)
\#makebrotherhoodgreatagain, as often as you can with an expression of
yours as to what that means to you.

You don't have to get into an ongoing spewing of hate or dislike for the
ideas that are of division that are being put forth, or at those who are
putting them forth. Get the meaning of "Make Brotherhood Great
Again"&hellip; get *it* out there because it's an Idea that the majority
of the people in the world can understand and put themselves behind. The
Movement of the Idea needs to begin.

And so, I'm charging everyone with the activity of doing this during the
coming week. There's no reason not to continue after that, but the
energy of the Truth of it needs to be expressed in words so that it may
Move those who are hearing it. And if there are those who disagree, and
who are obtuse and arrogant in their dislike of what you are saying, it
doesn't matter. It literally doesn't matter. What matters is for the
Idea to be expressed &hellip; expressed &hellip; expressed &hellip; expressed.

Giving voice to the Voice for Truth is what all of us are here to do.
That is our Function. My voice in these meetings is heard all over the
world. Everyone on your globe is my Brother or Sister. We are Family. We
are the Brotherhood. And in spite of the noise, the arrogant noise of
the expression of division seems to be overwhelming, the fact is
that there are more in the world &hellip; *more in the world* &hellip; who
stand with and are able to identify with the need for Making Brotherhood
Great Again than those who are engaged in loudly dividing and
disintegrating natural harmony and cooperation and Unity. There is
really no contest.

The divisiveness cannot stand, because there are more who are
experiencing human need, who understand what humaneness and humanity is,
and opt for *that* over anything else.

Love is the answer. Get the thought of Love out there, without even
using the words, by getting the words "Make Brotherhood Great Again" out
there.

I'm going to reiterate: One has to say "No" to that which is
destructive. And one has to say "Yes" to that which is harmonizing.
Independence is not harmonizing. Cooperation is. Brotherly Love is. The
willingness to look into your Brother's eyes and remember God is &mdash; no
matter what color his skin, or her skin, no matter what religion is
professed or embraced. Brotherhood already IS the fact. It needs to be
brought back into the foreground &hellip; and that's the task this week.

In all forms of social media, in all forms of social interaction find an
innocuous way to express the words, "We need to *Make Brotherhood Great
Again!"*

*Brotherhood needs to be the foundation* <br/>
*of everyone's behavior.*

I thank you for listening. I thank Paul for his willingness to let me
express this clearly. And I look forward to being with you next time.

[^1]: Bible: John 8:32 KJV
[^2]: Bible: Luke 22:42 KJV
[^3]: Victor Hugo

