---
title: Aug 19, 2018
ref: "Discussion"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the Internet.

It&rsquo;s been a while since we&rsquo;ve met in this way, and I want to start out
by saying, &ldquo;I love you, I love you all.&rdquo;

I want to say and remind you that you exist in an inviolable atmosphere
of Love&mdash;the Father&rsquo;s Love. The Father is the Source and condition of all
existence. That means that Love is the Source and the condition of all
existence. It means that Truth is the Source and condition &hellip; and
condition of all existence. And the same is true for Principle, Mind,
Soul, and Spirit. The Source and condition &hellip; that means that Truth
and Love and all of the synonyms for the word God are invariable, as
invariable as the Father is. Mind is the Source and condition of all
existence.

Now, what this means is that Truth is not a mutual agreement. Love is
not a mutual agreement. Life isn&rsquo;t whatever anybody decides it is or
whatever anyone wants to define it as. Truth is eternal, Life is eternal
and, as it says in the Bible, &ldquo;without variableness or shadow of turning
&rdquo;[^1] it, therefore, is dependable. It, because of its dependability,
constitutes your security, your invulnerability. Because, in the
presence of indivisibility, it is impossible for there to be division,
divisiveness, chaos, fear, sin, sickness, and death&mdash;it&rsquo;s impossible.

If the Father, if God, is the Source and condition of all existence,
then all existence is an infinite singularity, an infinite
indivisibility; therefore, the fact is that, in any given moment, every
single one of you is utterly safe, utterly inviolable. And even if you
have been convinced that you have been violated by illness, by accident,
by abuse, what you divinely are has not been violated, and what you
divinely are is Present and available for you to experience instantly
because any other perception is an imagination&mdash;for lack of better
words&mdash;a belief. And beliefs have nothing to back them up. Beliefs have
nothing to ground them into a state of being Real.

Now, there seem to be a humongous number of distractions from the
experience of safety, peace, and invulnerability at the present time.
Life, generally speaking, [chuckles] is full of variableness and
undependability you might say. That&rsquo;s the common mutually agreed upon
experience. But the message of A Course In Miracles, the blessing of any
of the great religions lies in the fact that there is transformation
available out of the human condition, out of sin, sickness, death,
vulnerability, abuse, and so on. And it&rsquo;s accomplished by means of a
shift of perception, a healing of the mind.

Now, in the Bible, this is expressed in these words: &ldquo;Thou wilt keep him
in perfect peace, whose mind is stayed on thee: because he trusteth in
thee.&rdquo;[^2] Now, one might read that and think, &ldquo;Oh. Well, that&rsquo;s a nice
religious concept. He&rsquo;s kept in perfect peace because he has his
priorities right, he&rsquo;s got his mind stayed on the Father.&rdquo; Well, it has
nothing to do with having priorities right in the sense of devotion to
the Father. &ldquo;Thou wilt keep him in perfect peace, whose mind is stayed
on thee, &rdquo; and then the question is, why? Not because he has his
priorities right, but &ldquo;because he trusteth in thee.&rdquo;

What that&rsquo;s really saying is he &ldquo;trusteth in thee&rdquo; instead of his own
best judgments, his own best thinking. You see? This is the more
practical way to understand the meaning. God doesn&rsquo;t want you to be
obedient to Him because he deserves your obedience. He wants you to not
be distracted from your holiness, your Sonship by relying upon an
imaginary ability to think for yourself and, as a result of thinking for
yourself, abandoning your natural inviolable eternal connection with
Him. And, as a result of being in a state of denial of the Source and
condition of your existence, creating for yourself sin, sickness, death,
abuse, fear, vulnerability, and on and on and on. You see?

The focus isn&rsquo;t so much as being obedient and being a good servant of
God; it&rsquo;s about you&rsquo;re not doing what causes you suffering, what cause
you fear and guilt. You see? This is very important.

Now we will keep him in perfect peace whose mind is stayed on thee. In
other words, whose mind is single, who says and lives the meaning of the
words, &ldquo;Thy will not mine be done,&rdquo; and does it because he trusteth in
thee, because he doesn&rsquo;t trust in his own imagined capacity to judge and
think for himself and, thus, be a creator, an independent agent having
authority on your own. That independence is an imaginary thought. It&rsquo;s
an impossibility because it&rsquo;s an alteration of something that already
existed. It is a misperception caused by an incoherent use of the
imagination that says, &ldquo;I&rsquo;m here, I&rsquo;m conscious, I&rsquo;m aware that I&rsquo;m
conscious, and I choose to be conscious in a way that&rsquo;s not normal to me
where all I&rsquo;m doing in acknowledging eternity, acknowledging the Kingdom
of Heaven, experiencing everything as it Is because I&rsquo;m being
subservient to God when I don&rsquo;t have to be.

That divorce is imaginary, but, as we&rsquo;ve talked about before, the moment
a first independent thought was imagined and another Brother or Sister
joined with you in a mutual agreement as to that new definition, fear
and guilt came into the picture. Well, if fear and guilt doesn&rsquo;t
constitute vulnerability, what does? And that fear and guilt colors
every perception you have of the only thing that&rsquo;s going on&mdash;the Kingdom
of Heaven, Reality&mdash;in which there is no variableness or shadow of
turning, no opportunity for differing opinion, nothing with which to
influence or motivate brothers and sisters to engage in what seems to be
the act of Creativity, but which is just an experience of mortality
because it&rsquo;s an experience of something unreal, the unreality of which
will have to end.

And how will it end? Simple. By letting your mind be stayed on the
Father, on that which is the Source and condition of you, which brings
your Birthright back into place as your conscious experience. And all
the misperceptions of the only thing going on will vanish, allowing you
to experience Reality, the Kingdom of Heaven as It is, and, thereby,
confirm the Father in it as its Source and condition and, in that
acknowledgment, take your place as co-creator with God&mdash;not originator
but co-creator.

What are you here for? It&rsquo;s a valid question. Are you here to just
continue the movement of the wheel of history, the over and over and
over and over repetition of the past, of being mortal? Or is it to step
off the wheel of history? Are you here to engage in time and process,
which of course means no originality? Or are you here to step out of
time into the experience of eternity? Well, there would be no such word
as &ldquo;atonement&rdquo; if you weren&rsquo;t here to become free of whatever is
illusory in your experience.

Well, you say, &ldquo;My parents and my grandparents and my ancestors all the
way back to the caveman, they were born, they grew up, they learned how
to survive, they developed skills, they passed those skills on down to
their children and their children&rsquo;s children.&rdquo; And wow, look what we&rsquo;ve
become. We&rsquo;ve become sophisticated forms of survival with more effective
means to kill or bring the disobedient ones into line with more&mdash;how can
I put it&mdash;with more awful means of disciplining the incorrigibles than
ever existed, which involved less process but more suffering for them.
Yeah, you&rsquo;ve come a long way, but you&rsquo;re still on the wheel of history,
and you&rsquo;re here to get off of it.

A Course In Miracles, the Bible make it clear that the way to step out
of time, the way to get off the wheel of history is to abandon your
trust in your best independent thinking, not lean on to your own
understanding any longer and go within, become still, turn to the Father
and ask, &ldquo;What is the Truth here?&rdquo; and let the answer come, not from you
any longer but from the Source and condition of all existence of You.
And, therefore, of your understanding, comprehension, and experience of
your Brothers and Sisters and of all Creation.

So, many of you have understood to some degree what&rsquo;s called for,
turning the attention to the Father saying, &ldquo;Thy will, not mine be
done,&rdquo; and then leaning into whatever the Father&rsquo;s Will is with benign
innocent attention so that it can be revealed to you in the absence of
your own busy thinking and register with you as what it truly is
according to the Father, who is the Source and condition of what is
revealed to you.

Now, the Father will keep you in perfect peace if your mind is stayed on
Him. And all of you know the importance of peace, the importance of
quieting the mind, which is the first step of the holy instant, the
first step of the two-step, which is to shut up. Such a simple thing. It
doesn&rsquo;t take a lot of skill. It&rsquo;s not complicated. It just means, shut
up.

Now, if one has never shut up before, it can take a little practice and
a little process called meditation. And, because the &ldquo;still small
voice&rdquo; of God, is a still small voice in comparison to the chatter of
independent thinking, it takes persistence to arrive at a point of
becoming still enough to be able to hear the still small voice. And
everyone who practices the discipline of becoming still through
meditation, through any viable means of becoming still, it can seem that
an ever-present condition of listening and hearing is going to be a
quiet environment. That it&rsquo;s going to involve, in effect, being able to
go into a private quiet cave, separated from not only the noise of one&rsquo;s
own thinking but the noise of one&rsquo;s environment.

As a result of doing this, one does learn how to hear the voice for
truth, how to hear the Holy Spirit, how to hear me, how to hear and
experience the Father&rsquo;s Perspective. And, as one becomes experienced,
familiar&mdash;let&rsquo;s put it that way&mdash;with becoming still, listening and
hearing, one can begin to assume that the quiet environment will always
be essential.

But, this is my main point tonight: The fact is that, when you need to
know the Truth that heals, when you need to know the Truth that
transforms, when you need to know the Truth that allows you to step out
of time in order to experience an instantaneous healing that
supposedly&mdash;according to the mutual agreements of separated minds&mdash;would
have to go through a lengthy process of reconstruction in order to
experience the Truth that&rsquo;s needed, you will have to be able to hear it
in the middle of the call for Truth, which is very often an emergency.
And you can&rsquo;t say, &ldquo;Oh. Well, just a moment, I&rsquo;m going to have to go
home, and I&rsquo;m going to have to go into my room where I always sit to
become still because it&rsquo;s so much easier to be quiet there, and I will
listen for the Truth and . .&rdquo; Well, that doesn&rsquo;t work because the
healing, clarifying answer is needed right in the middle of the call for
it, the emergency, or the abusive situation, or the threatening
situation, or the disturbing situation.

Right now, on your globe, disturbance is occurring at a level that it&rsquo;s
never happened before. And I mean it in this sense because, of course,
the cave men got into the battles with different groups over who was
going to be able to have this woman for his own or because somebody was
mad at the other group. And they had major conflicts. But they weren&rsquo;t
global.

You live in an age now where communication is globally instantaneous,
and everybody knows what&rsquo;s going on everywhere else and is impacted by
the apparent seriousness of it as a total group. And the dissonance is,
therefore, really disturbing because the potential is there for so much
mutual agreement about the emergency, about the call for healing.

And, because the breakdown of global integrity&mdash;whatever there
was&mdash;because of the feeling of vulnerability, which everybody knows
everyone is experiencing, it seems to tear at the very fabric of the
capacity to be still enough to hear the Voice for Truth and then to have
the courage to voice it. And it can seem as though God and the Holy
Spirit have disappeared, when they haven&rsquo;t. The Holy Spirit is nothing
more than your right Mind which is being held in trust while you dally
with independent thinking with an imaginary mind of your own that has
the capacity to think independently.

You have&mdash;each and every one of you have&mdash;the capacity to experience the
Voice for Truth within you in spite of the disturbance and the apparent
substantiality of it because so many are believing it, that it&rsquo;s hard to
imagine that it&rsquo;s not substantial and that it is simply a misperception
believed. It&rsquo;s nothing more than a belief, but it is a belief that
everyone is talking about. It&rsquo;s a belief that many are saying, &ldquo;It&rsquo;s
real,&rdquo; and many are saying, &ldquo;It&rsquo;s not real.&rdquo; But there is such focus and
intensity around its consideration that it can seem almost impossible to
be quiet enough or in the &ldquo;proper environment&rdquo; for listening and hearing
and being able to experience a shift of perception that transforms.

Now, the tendency might be to get upset, to be mad because you are faced
with a situation that you can&rsquo;t resolve because you can&rsquo;t have a quiet
enough place to listen. And, if you can&rsquo;t be in a quiet enough place to
listen, you can&rsquo;t possibly hear the Holy Spirit or me or the Father,
even if we want to talk to you, even we want to share the Truth with
you. It isn&rsquo;t true &hellip; it isn&rsquo;t true

If you indulge in being upset because the conditions for hearing
guidance aren&rsquo;t available to you, your very anger and distress will be
the only thing keeping you from letting yourself hear. Being angry
because the proper conditions aren&rsquo;t present to hear what will heal the
situation is a grievance about something that isn&rsquo;t true.

If you came upon an automobile accident and there were serious injury
and there was blood and there were broken bones and the picture was very
distressing, you, because of your unfamiliarity with it, could become
very distraught. But a paramedic or a physician looking at the same
situation does have peace because it is not unfamiliar, and he knows
what&rsquo;s needed, and so he experiences it without alarm, even though he
deals with it very specifically in terms of correcting it.

This is important because everyone today around the globe, when you turn
on your television set, when you look on the Internet, when you see bits
and pieces of news that are fake one&mdash;and true&mdash;on your phones, you think
that this is all justifiably disturbing instead of simply being
something to look at, recognize that, indeed, correction is needed, but
you are not called upon to be reactive, to be emotional.

It is exactly this kind of a situation that a physician&rsquo;s skill is
called for. And when you look at the circumstances through all forms of
media in your world today&mdash;no matter where you are&mdash;they are circumstances
which call for correction, for healing. And it calls for the clarity
that every single one of you has the capacity to experience if, instead
of being appalled by the appearance, you simply ask, &ldquo;Father, what is
the healing Truth here? Father, what is the response that&rsquo;s needed?&rdquo;

It isn&rsquo;t time to succumb to the circumstances or the way things appear.
It&rsquo;s time to step off the wheel of history. It&rsquo;s time to step out of
time. It&rsquo;s time to participate in atonement, by what? Not relying upon
your own best judgments and your own best thinking, but by trusting into
the Father, abandoning your act of independence that brought on fear and
guilt and what you call the vagaries of the human condition.

And you know what? When you look at things that seem to be validly
disturbing and you do shut up and you do say, &ldquo;Father what is the Truth
here?&rdquo; or &ldquo;Holy Spirit,&rdquo;&mdash;that which is nothing more than my right
Mind&mdash;&ldquo;what is the Truth here?&rdquo; be careful that you don&rsquo;t think you,
because of your experience at listening for guidance and receiving it,
can determine what the answer will be.

It&rsquo;s rather like a child, a toddler throwing up on the carpet, a really
foul-smelling vomit. And it&rsquo;s overwhelming the smell. And you say,
&ldquo;Father, Holy Spirit, how can I overcome the smell?&rdquo;

And the Holy Spirit says, &ldquo;Go to the kitchen and get a sponge and
moisten it.&rdquo;

&ldquo;What? Go into the kitchen and get a sponge? What&rsquo;s that going to do
about the smell? And I need to know how not to be overcome by the
smell.&rdquo;

And the Holy Spirit says, &ldquo;No, you simply need to clean up the mess.&rdquo;

&ldquo;No, no, no, no, I am so disturbed and upset by the smell, Holy Spirit
you&rsquo;ve got to find a way to shield me from being disturbed by the smell.
That&rsquo;s what needs to be transformed.&rdquo; You see?

&ldquo;No, it isn&rsquo;t. Go into the kitchen get a sponge, get paper towels
moisten them, wipe it up, clean it up. Get a cleaner, a cleanser
afterwards. The smell will be gone.&rdquo; You don&rsquo;t have to get rid of the
smell to solve the problem. You don&rsquo;t have to be shielded from the smell
in order to clean the mess up. You see?

It&rsquo;s very easy to think that you know the condition. The quiet cave in
the corner of your house, in the comfortable chair where you always
meditate. You don&rsquo;t have to have that in order to clearly know what&rsquo;s
appropriate out on the highway or in the grocery store with the rude
cashier or customer. All you have to do is recognize that the conditions
don&rsquo;t need to be perfect. You only need to ask, &ldquo;What is the Truth here
that heals, that resolves the situation.&rdquo; And then, if the answer isn&rsquo;t
what you expect, you go and get the sponge. Or you do the thing that
will actually resolve the problem without requiring the Holy Spirit to
deal with the peculiar interpretation you have given to the problem
before you will listen to the rest of the answer that will actually
solve it.

I want to end by reiterating that God is the Source and condition of all
existence. That Love is not only the Source of all that exists but the
condition of it. Every single thing, from a blade of grass to a star, is
the Presence and manifestation of Love, actually loving everything else
in Creation. The Father&rsquo;s Love reaches every one of you from every one
of you, and from every blade of grass and from every needle on a pine
tree and from every butterfly, from every bird, everything.

You&rsquo;re here to abandon the wheel of history. You&rsquo;re here to abandon time
not because it constitutes a major evolutionary step that everyone is
ready to make but because, in the absence of trying to do things that
have never been done before through the use of your own thinking and
imagined authority, you relax back into what a new you you divinely
already Are. And in the absence of your self-reliance, you get to see
and experience and have restored to you the Kingdom of Heaven that
you&rsquo;ve been in the middle of all along.

Oh, it&rsquo;s very egotistically satisfying to think, &ldquo;Wow! I live in a time
where I&rsquo;m at the threshold, and I&rsquo;m going to be able to observe a major
transformational evolutionary step. Wow, how fortunate I am to be here
when so many before me aren&rsquo;t! How special I am.&rdquo; No. No major
evolutionary step, just an undoing of an imagination that one has a
capacity, an independent self-originated capacity, to think for one&rsquo;s
self, but, of course, always in tandem with another Son or Daughter of
God thinking for him or herself because it takes a mutual agreement.

&hellip; which brings me to one last point.

When you go to step off the wheel of history, when you decide to abandon
your part in the divorce from the Father in the act of
independence&mdash;which wasn&rsquo;t that independent because you had to do it with
a brother or sister&mdash;when you withdraw your part by leaning once again
into the Father with your mind stayed on Him, those who have partnered
with you in creating mutual agreements will not be overjoyed. And you
will hear objection and all of the mutually agreed upon means that have
been developed by the independent ones to coerce and manipulate and
control will be brought to bear upon you. And, of course, all of those
techniques will be familiar to you because you&rsquo;ve used them yourself.

And so, the temptation will be there to deal with the coercive
invitation to resume independence with your well-established independent
skills, when what is called for remains the same: abandoning your
self-reliance and letting your mind be stayed on the Father by
constantly asking, &ldquo;What is the Truth here? Holy Spirit, Voice for
Truth, what is the Truth here? I am ready to be through with sin,
sickness, and death. I&rsquo;m ready to be through with vulnerability. I&rsquo;m
ready to be through with the feeling of impotence in the face of this
global mutual agreement that everything&rsquo;s going to hell in a hand
basket, and we ought to be afraid, and there&rsquo;s nothing you can do about
it.&rdquo;

It&rsquo;s not true. And the invitation, what can be abusive coercion, to
reestablish your place in the mutual agreement that makes illusion seem
real will not be able to be used by you as justification for feeling
hopeless because it appears to you, or the suggestion is that it doesn&rsquo;t
allow you to have the conditions necessary to experience the peace of
your Being, in which the sudden shift of perception can occur that is
the miracle that heals.

I love you all very much. And I look forward to being with you next
time.

[^1]: Bible: James 1:17
[^2]: Bible: Isaiah 26:3

