---
title: Aug 29, 2018
ref: "Discussion"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the Internet.

My purpose tonight is to convey encouragement and inspiration to help
move the practice of A Course In Miracles out of a potentially
&ldquo;Pollyanna&rdquo; form of wonderful cotton-candy spiritual thoughts and ideas
and the toying with them, the playing with them in the mind to provide a
good feeling, not correcting anything when correction is called for.

To feel comfortable when a call for correction hasn&rsquo;t been answered
because one engages in a spiritual practice of &ldquo;The Power of Positive
Thinking&rdquo; puts one in the position of being the victim of whatever the
call for correction is. And then one thinks, &ldquo;Well, the spiritual
practice I was engaging in wasn&rsquo;t very practical,&rdquo; when the spiritual
practice, we&rsquo;ll say, of A Course In Miracles is the most practical thing
you could engage in.

We talked last time about something very essential: the difference
between the belief in ones having authority with which to exercise or
practice the truths expressed in the Bible and in the Course as a means
of controlling the world or controlling situations in the world&mdash;the
belief that one&rsquo;s thinking has power, when it doesn&rsquo;t.

There&rsquo;s a phrase that&rsquo;s used to this effect, &ldquo;Well, he had the presence
of mind to deal with the situation well.&rdquo; Well, here is a simple thought
to keep in mind: The presence of thinking gets in the way of the
Presence of Mind.

And that&rsquo;s why the practice of the two-step, the practice of the holy
instant is not only the corner-stone of the teaching of A Course In
Miracles, it&rsquo;s the corner-stone of Waking up, it&rsquo;s the corner-stone of
Atonement. Because the practice of the two-step involves becoming still,
stilling the thinking because, in its absence, in the pristine silence
of nothing more than the Presence of Mind, your divinity, the Holy
Spirit, which speaks for God to you while you dally with the ego, is
able to register with you and bring forth a shift of perception which
is, of course, the definition of a miracle.

Now, there is, as we&rsquo;ve discussed before, going on in the world
disturbance, the activation of that which is disturbing to the human
peace of mind, disturbing to the sense of security and safety. And this
disturbance is created through the suggestion that rules, principles no
longer apply, no longer are stable, no longer provide stability, that
there is nothing dependable anymore. And, you know, in some ways, this
can play into a Pollyanna approach to A Course In Miracles because it
can suggest that, as one listens for the Voice for Truth and hears what
is beyond his present concepts, his present sense of thing, it is going
to disturb the status-quo, and it is going to be disturbing, and it is
going to bring forth the unexpected.

And so, the rules that have been in place will naturally breakdown to
make room for new rules. This Pollyanna thinking is very destructive,
and one needs to be alert for it.

As I brought out last week, there is &ldquo;no variableness or shadow of
turning&rdquo;[^1] in the Presence of God, in the Presence of the Kingdom of
Heaven. What was true yesterday is true today. Love is reflected in
Love. Divine Love is reflected in the love shared with one&rsquo;s fellowman.
When one goes within and listens and Love is revealed to be shared, it
doesn&rsquo;t transition into something else. Love does not become that which
undermines your experience of stability and security but makes it more
solid.

Now, why does one engage in independent thinking? One engages in it to
save himself from what he fears. And, of course, as we&rsquo;ve said so many
times, the minute one got a divorce from the Father, the minute one
said, &ldquo;But, Father, I&rsquo;d rather do it myself,&rdquo; and joined with another in
this act of independence, fear and guilt came into play. And where
thinking had never been engaged in before in one&rsquo;s divine state of Mind,
thinking became the means by which one&rsquo;s security was regained by virtue
of developing more and more mutual definitions between you and another
who decided to do things for themselves. Thinking is the culprit.
Thinking is what blinds you to what Truth really Is.

Now, a lot of thinking is going on in the world, a lot of thinking
arising out of fear. And those experiencing fear who employ thinking to
save themselves, to improve themselves, to hopefully cause themselves no
longer to experience themselves as an orphan but as a real independent
presence, they are engaged in attempting to divide, to breakdown
cohesion, to disturb Brotherhood in order to demonstrate that
independence is the ultimate answer. But, of course, it&rsquo;s an
&ldquo;ultimate answer&rdquo; directed at asserting and succeeding at
demonstrating one&rsquo;s personal private Presence (with a capital
&ldquo;P&rdquo;)&mdash;but not a capital &ldquo;P&rdquo; because
it&rsquo;s the Presence of God.

So, it is arrogant, self-centered, self-aggrandizing. It is all oriented
to personal, individual greatness. And the suggestion is that everyone
must seek that because that is the answer. But, of course, if those in
the Brotherhood, those who are Family because they are the direct
Expression of the Father, if they, indeed, take on the challenge to
become not only great but the greatest independent self-existent
presence, what really can be the only result? Total disintegration of
Brotherhood, total disintegration of cohesiveness, total
disintegration of integrity, total disintegration of order? And, if you
stop and think about it, the total disintegration of order is a
cataclysm. It would be the equivalent of what is imagined to be the &ldquo;Big
Bang,&rdquo; where everything that ever existed would explode into what it is
not.

Now, in Lesson 170 in the Workbook of A Course In Miracles, the very
first paragraph is all-important, especially at this time. It says:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
No-one attacks without intent to hurt.[^2]
</div>

That means that attack is never the result of carelessness,
thoughtlessness, immaturity, ignorance. It never just accidentally
happens.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
No-one attacks without intent to hurt. This can have no exceptions.
</div>

Why am I reading this? Why is this what I&rsquo;m sharing tonight? Because
attack seems to be going on in all directions. This Lesson is directed
at each individual reading it, bringing out that, if the one reading it
is engaging in attack, he must come to a realization that there is an
active intent to hurt. It&rsquo;s not careless, thoughtless, it&rsquo;s not the
result of ignorance. It is focused. It is specific. It is on purpose. It
has a goal.

Now, when you have people in power anywhere on the globe who are
engaging in the promotion of independence from others on the globe as
though this is the answer to ultimate success, you&rsquo;re seeing the
demonstration of attack. And, yet:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
No-one attacks without intent to hurt. This can have no exceptions.
</div>

Now, A Course In Miracles and most forms of metaphysics do not really
encourage you to look at these things that are happening and say,
&ldquo;Well, it&rsquo;s all an illusion,&rdquo; as though that is the
magic Pollyanna answer that will correct the situation. And it&rsquo;s
important to understand that to simply discount it by saying,
&ldquo;It&rsquo;s an illusion,&rdquo; or by saying, &ldquo;Oh, the Holy
Spirit will take care of it,&rdquo; this is not what will heal. This is
not what will correct. This is what will allow that which needs to be
corrected to increase in its aggressiveness, increase the degree to
which it creates fear. And this is unacceptable.

Now, does this sound very encouraging? Does this sound very inspiring?
Nevertheless, it is. Let&rsquo;s continue from the book:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you think that you attack in self-defense, you mean that to be
cruel is protection; you are safe because of cruelty.
</div>

You watch cruelty in one form or another happen almost daily in America.
It happens elsewhere, but it is not expressed with the degree of power
and influence as it does when it is coming from America.

When you think or when one thinks that he attacks in self-defense, he
means that to be cruel is protection; it&rsquo;s, therefore, justifiable. That
he is safe because of cruelty or the country is safer because of
cruelty. This is not a sign of progress. This is not a sign of the
radicalness of the miracles of atonement. Be very clear on this. If you
are not very clear on this, the inspiration that is needed will not
address the issue and, in so many words to say, &ldquo;Well, this too shall
pass,&rdquo; is stupid. It is that which will destroy whatever degree of peace
and harmony everyone is presently experiencing if no one engages in what
corrects it.

Again:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you think that you attack in self-defense, you mean that to be
cruel is protection; you are safe because of cruelty. You mean that you
believe to hurt another brings you freedom. And you mean that to attack
is to exchange the state in which you are for something better, safer,
more secure from &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; dangerous invasion &hellip;
</div>

Build a wall! Build a wall!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[And] you mean that to attack is to exchange the state in which you are
for something better, safer, more secure from dangerous invasion and
from fear.
</div>

Well, I&rsquo;m sorry, the only thing that will save you or anyone from fear
is to abandon the act of independence you engaged in when you said you
would rather do it your way, meaning you would rather define the meaning
of everything yourself through the use of&mdash;or misuse&mdash;of your mind, which
in the process created the presence of &ldquo;thinking&rdquo; and constituted the
loss of the Presence of Mind, which is your Birthright. The Presence of
Mind being the Presence of the Holy Spirit, which is nothing more,
nothing less than your right Mind, held in trust while you dally with
the ego.

When the thought is expressed, &ldquo;I will turn this over to the Holy
Spirit,&rdquo; what that means is that you will engage in the two-step.
You won&rsquo;t abandon the call for correction and discount it with a
few fairy words, a few Pollyanna words, &ldquo;This too shall pass
away.&rdquo; &ldquo;It&rsquo;s illusion.&rdquo; &ldquo;Nothing Real can
be threatened and nothing unreal exists.&rdquo; &ldquo;So, I need do
nothing.&rdquo; And, &ldquo;I will turn it over to the Holy
Spirit.&rdquo; &ldquo;The Holy Spirit will take care of it.&rdquo;

When you turn things over to the Holy Spirit, it means you&rsquo;re engaging
in the holy instant, you&rsquo;re engaging in the two-step, which means you
are shutting up the thinking, becoming quiet in the mind. Why? So that
which is your right Mind is not interfered with by the noise and static
of your independent thinking and so that It can register with you as
your clarity, as your experiencing the Truth of what is going on. Why?
So that you can be the Presence of Truth engaged in Brotherhood in the
ways that calls for Love to be answered with correction of that which
required a call for Love.

It&rsquo;s letting the Holy Spirit replace the sense of presence that your
thinking seems to give you, so that you might act&mdash;for lack of better
words&mdash;in the world in a transformational way that allows what is in
Heaven to be on earth, in other words, for the Kingdom of Heaven that
everything already is to register as what it Is.

Now, the movement that everyone on your globe finds yourself blatantly
confronted by is a movement of a conscious, planned, organized attempt
to breakdown that which constitutes the integrity of mankind&rsquo;s
experience of itself as Brotherhood.

How many of you find yourselves discouraged, depressed, feeling
hopeless, doubting what you had always believed, not feeling that
there&rsquo;s any basis upon which to feel secure within yourself? Let&rsquo;s be
clear, there&rsquo;s a reason, and it&rsquo;s not all just your very own practice of
independence that causes for you the experience of fear and guilt. It is
because the divorce from the Father, the act of independence is engaged
in its last hurrah, its mighty attempt to be equal but opposite to God.

Is this frightening? It can be. And you might have thought that, in your
study of the Course, it was leading you away from having to confront so
directly and so practically and so groundedly such an attempt, such a
dynamic that to become aware of the Allness of God and the fact that God
is infinite Love and that the Love that God is meets every human need,
that that isn&rsquo;t enough.

You&mdash;every single one of you&mdash;are the agents for change because you are
the holy Sons and Daughters of God. This doesn&rsquo;t just apply to you who
hear what I&rsquo;m saying and believe it, it also applies to those who are
engaged in the call for Love that appears to be consciously directed
attempts at destruction. But, while these attempts are being made, it is
absolutely essential to understand how important each of you is in being
the Presence of Mind that is you letting the Holy Spirit register with
you so that the clarity of the Holy Spirit allows you to behave
fearlessly&mdash;but unequivocally&mdash;on behalf of Intelligence and the
unwillingness to embrace the unintelligent.

Now, whew, [big sigh] this means that as you are willing to look at what
is being attempted and as you are willing to call it for what it is: &ldquo;A
call for Love.&rdquo; It is not Love. It is a call for Love. It is fear being
expressed in an attempt to control everyone else into behaving in a way
that will support disintegration, which is another way of saying that
will support the salvation that independence promises. You see?

You have the capacity, as I brought out last time, in the midst of
emergency, in the midst of the conscious practice of destruction to turn
your attention to the Holy Spirit, to turn your attention to the Father,
to become still, to remember that the culprit is the thinking you engage
in.

Mind you, that does not mean that the thinking you engage in is creating
the calls for Love that are coming from high places around your globe.
It means that your thinking stands in the way of&mdash;it is the culprit that
stands in the way of&mdash;your ability to know the Truth, to know what the
Truth is, to know what a holy Son or Daughter of God Knows as his
Birthright, as her Birthright, as that which is inviolable, as that
which is secure and not threatened. So that one is allowed the
clarification that is necessary in order to act, to act with acts of
Brotherhood, meaning involvement with each other, involvement with those
who are engaging in what is destructive in ways that transform and heal.
That is your task.

Your task is what? To remember not to think, to remember to shut up.

Now, I mentioned last week, that with the global communication, which
almost everyone on your globe utilizes, it&rsquo;s possible for everyone
instantaneously&mdash;without having to wait three weeks for mail to come
across the Atlantic or go across the Pacific&mdash;everyone has the capacity
now to experience immediately, instantaneously what others are feeling
anywhere on the globe. And, when so many people are communicating their
concern, the sheer number causes the problem to seem to be something far
more than a misperception, than a belief which can be replaced by the
Truth if one stops engaging in thinking&mdash;listens, hears and expresses
himself from that place globally through the global communication. You
see?

This is the key. And every single one of you has this capacity. When you
experience so many Brothers and Sisters in distress it&rsquo;s very
disturbing. Your habits of thinking, your habits of controlling through
the use of mutual agreements and allegiances, they tend to come into
play and cause you once again to engage in acts of authority because
that&rsquo;s what you&rsquo;re familiar with. And so, something has to happen when
you are experiencing the seeming reality of an illusion, of a belief, of
a thought structure which doesn&rsquo;t have its source in Reality.

The element that is required is faith. You must dare to persist in being
in that place of silence, the place of having shut up your thinking when
it&rsquo;s like every fiber of your being is calling for you to think, and to
think creatively, and to find a way through thinking to coerce through
threat and through the expression of fear and cruelty. You see?

The call is right in the middle of that when you are in the silence, not
to succumb to the temptation to stop listening because hearing is the
solution. Hearing is how the Presence of God registers with you as your
Source, as your security, as your capacity to love in ways that correct
rather than allow just anything to happen because it&rsquo;s all illusion.

I&rsquo;m here to inspire you to not let despair, hopelessness,
discouragement fill your mind. Because, it&rsquo;s very simple, you
provide the thoughts that do the discouragement. You say,
&ldquo;There&rsquo;s no way out of this.&rdquo; &ldquo;This is
overwhelming.&rdquo; &ldquo;The rules don&rsquo;t work anymore.&rdquo;
&ldquo;Everyone&rsquo;s going to get away with everything.&rdquo; You
see? [chuckles] It isn&rsquo;t that they&rsquo;re getting away with the
rules, it&rsquo;s that you&rsquo;re saying in your mind to yourself,
&ldquo;It&rsquo;s hopeless.&rdquo; &ldquo;They&rsquo;re getting away
with everything.&rdquo; &ldquo;Nobody&rsquo;s going to stop them.&rdquo;
&ldquo;Nothing will stop it anymore,&rdquo; and on and on &hellip;
thoughts &hellip; thoughts &hellip; thoughts.

And that&rsquo;s what you suffer from because they make so much noise
that you can&rsquo;t hear the &ldquo;still small voice&rdquo; for God
that is the infinite Presence for Mind that it&rsquo;s your Birthright
to be experiencing and which will register with you when through faith
in the presence of disturbing thoughts allow you to remain still, so
that your reunion with your right Mind can occur.

Now, this reunion is inevitable because you have never stopped being
unified. The Truth, Reality has never been interfered with really. It&rsquo;s
available to be experienced this instant. But you&rsquo;re going to have to
bring the faith that causes you to persist in listening until you hear.
And each time you listen in the face of great distraction and hear, your
experience provides a stronger basis for persisting in faith.

You know what? I am present with every single one of you always. The
Holy Spirit&mdash;that which is nothing more than your right Mind&mdash;is present
with you always. The Father, of course, is the very Presence of You
always. And so, you are constantly in the Presence of That which
supports the Atonement. You are in the Presence of, and you Are the
Presence of That which is the absence of pain, suffering, doubt, fear,
discouragement, hopelessness, sin, sickness and death.

Don&rsquo;t be afraid to have to be so grounded that you&rsquo;re willing to look at
the call for Love and name it for what it is, and be present&mdash;I&rsquo;m going
to say&mdash;with it, with the clarity that it hasn&rsquo;t a leg to stand on, that
it has no foundation in Reality, and, therefore, it cannot accomplish
what is frightening everyone into believing it can.

This is practical spirituality. This is the lab work of A Course In
Miracles. Don&rsquo;t be afraid of it. Persist. Even when your habit of fear
wants to get you to take hold of the situation yourself and do something
&ldquo;out there&rdquo; without the guidance of your right Mind. With the guidance
of your right Mind, you will act, you will engage with your Brothers in
acts of Brotherhood that unify. That is just the way it really works.

I love you very much. The Father loves you very much. The Holy Spirit
embraces you fully and It&rsquo;s constant purpose is to insinuate Itself into
your present, private awareness, to help undo it, to help break down the
wall you have put up between your private sense of self and That which
is nothing more than your right Mind.

It&rsquo;s time to undo the wall. It&rsquo;s time to disagree with the breakdown of
unity. It&rsquo;s time to do it with guidance. It&rsquo;s time to do it without
thinking. It&rsquo;s time to do it as the Presence of Mind.

I look forward to being with you next time.

[^1]: Bible: James 1:17
[^2]: ACIM Workbook Lesson 170

