---
title: Jan 11, 2004
ref: T6.2 The Uses of Projection
alink: "/acim/text/06/chap0602/"
---

Good afternoon. And welcome to everyone who is joining us on the
Internet as well.

The section we&rsquo;re reading is entitled, &ldquo;The Uses of
Projection.&rdquo; And usually the word &ldquo;projection,&rdquo; the
uses of the word &ldquo;projection&rdquo; tend to have derogatory
meanings. &ldquo;Well he&rsquo;s projecting,&rdquo; meaning he&rsquo;s
disowning a part of himself and inappropriately projecting it out there
on his world, or his Brothers or his Sisters, not seeing what he&rsquo;s
doing. We&rsquo;re going to talk about projection with non-derogatory
meanings here.

And we&rsquo;ll go right into the book[^1].

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego uses projection ONLY to
distort your perception both of yourself AND your brothers. The process
begins by excluding something THAT exists in you which you do not want,
and leads directly to excluding you from your brothers.
</div>

Of course, the thing in you that you&rsquo;re excluding is your Source,
your Father. &ldquo;But Father, I&rsquo;d rather see it my way. But
Father, I&rsquo;d rather do it my way.&rdquo; And as we&rsquo;ve said,
you engaged in an imaginary procedure of getting a bill of divorcement
from your Father. And when you did that, you found that you became
Identity-less, because you were minus that which gave you and gives you
your Identity.

And so, because your Identity couldn&rsquo;t truly disappear and you
couldn&rsquo;t cease being What You Really Are, your Identity became
held in trust for you while you engaged in this fantasy of independence,
and it became known as the Holy Spirit. So, all that wasn&rsquo;t, and
all that isn&rsquo;t, included in whatever your current definition of
yourself is&hellip; whatever is not included in whatever your current
definition of yourself is, is all the rest of you that you have
disowned, disengaged from, gotten a bill of divorcement from, and it
remains permanently in Place as the Rest Of What You Divinely Are right
in the middle of you as the Altar to which you are to turn in order to
experience the Atonement and come Home. And it&rsquo;s called the Holy
Spirit. And the Holy Spirit is nothing more than your Right Mind.

Now the process begins by excluding something that exists in you which
you do not want, and leads directly to excluding you from your Brothers.
Well, inevitably in your divorcement from the Father you find yourself
alone. Your Infinite All-Inclusiveness has disappeared from your
conscious experience of being and you think that your aloneness is
isolation and that everything but the identity you are imaginatively
giving to yourself is not you, everything else is not you, including
your Brothers. And so inevitably, in your inability to recognize
yourself in your Brothers and your Brothers in yourself, you defend
yourself against them and you all defend yourselves against each other.

And you even have managed to come to a point where you work together in
your self-defense against each other so that you have a certain degree
of harmony through what I&rsquo;m going to call negative cooperation.
It&rsquo;s negative cooperation because it&rsquo;s cooperation based on
the precept that you are all different from each other. You are
therefore alien to each other. And in recognizing this, you can
negotiate agreements so that you don&rsquo;t harm or injure each other
too greatly.

So your negotiated harmony is itself a defense against the almost
absolute belief that you are energizing that you and everyone else are
foreign to each other, and therefore incompatible with each other. And
that&rsquo;s not real harmony. And that&rsquo;s not real cooperation.
That is all of you existing in a fantasy that blinds you to What You
Divinely Are. And therefore, it constitutes a false peace.

Now I&rsquo;m going to be very clear. The whole thing&rsquo;s a pile of
shit. [a little audience amusement] The whole concept is crap. This
whole way of existing is pure illusion, or I will say, pure delusion.
And none of it is going on at all. You don&rsquo;t deserve to live
together in harmony as aliens who have refined themselves to the point
of having developed a conscience, and then a capacity to care, and who
have refined yourselves to the point where you are living in elegant
harmony with the purest of motives and the most excellent of attitudes.
Because as long as you think that you are aliens who have succeeded in
becoming true friends, you&rsquo;re still caught in the illusion. The
fundamental basis of your behavior toward each other is based upon a
lie.

Now you deserve to experience harmony because that&rsquo;s the only
thing that&rsquo;s really going on. At this very moment, that&rsquo;s
the only thing that&rsquo;s going on and what keeps you from
experiencing it is your mutually-agreed-upon definition that
you&rsquo;re just humans, that you&rsquo;re just a hunk of matter
walking around with a sentient brain that makes everything move. And
your nature is basically human, which when it&rsquo;s used in that sense
is basically animal, and therefore at the bottom line your basic
motivation is survival, and survival of the fittest. And therefore, it
postulates the excellence of the fittest and the non-excellence of the
non-fit. So now we&rsquo;ve got the non-fits who have to march on
Washington and fight for their rights, their equal rights, until finally
everyone develops enough of a social conscience that they stop isolating
the non-fits and say, &ldquo;We embrace you. We will treat you as
equals. Blah. Blah. Blah.&rdquo; And now you have a better level of
harmony, but it&rsquo;s still crap.

Now are you the Sons and Daughters of God. Now are you the Sons and
Daughters of God, not &ldquo;will be.&rdquo; Now are you the Ultimate.
Now is each One of You the Christ, the direct in this moment Expression
of God. The Expression brand new in this moment of God embodying Himself
Infinitely.  And there&rsquo;s not a bit of &ldquo;humanness&rdquo; to
you in the sense of animalness, in the sense of physicalness. Everything
about you is pure Spirit.

Part of the Atonement is the shift in your awareness whereby you come to
a realization of your now Divinity that has nothing to do with your
mutually-agreed-upon definitions about what everything is and your
purely fantastic imaginary meanings that you have given yourselves as
something independent from your Source.

Now, you&rsquo;ve got to be careful. You&rsquo;ve got to be alert
because as you begin to reach out to the Light, so to speak, as you
reach out for inspiration and the influx of enlightenment and others
notice it, you&rsquo;re going begin to hear them say: &ldquo;The Light
is coming! The Light is coming!  Close your eyes everyone! Close your
eyes! The Light is coming! If you see the Light you will forget how to
exist in the dark and you will lose this rich heritage we have
established between ourselves of how to get along together in the dark.
The Light is coming! The Light is coming!  Close your eyes! Close your
eyes! We can&rsquo;t afford to forget how to be together in the dark. We
can&rsquo;t afford to abandon the skill that we&rsquo;ve developed, the
lifetimes that mankind has had to go through in order to arrive at a
reasonable existence in the dark. You must value the past.  You must
value everything that we have done to manage to get to exist this well
in the dark. Don&rsquo;t let it be lost in the Light.&rdquo;

Now, not only will you find others responding to the coming of the Light
that they see in you that way, your very own ego conditionings will
arise in you and say: &ldquo;Stop this. Stop reaching for the Light. You
can&rsquo;t afford to forget who you are in the dark. You can&rsquo;t
afford to forget who you have come to know yourself to be in the dark.
You&rsquo;ve worked very hard for the clarity you have about yourself as
a dark being. Don&rsquo;t let your best sense of your identity that you
are experiencing now be swallowed up in whatever this awareness of your
self will be in the Light, because you know that once the Light comes
the darkness will be gone, and your darkness identity will disappear
forever. Be sane here.  Don&rsquo;t be so radical as to be willing to
abandon your identity as a dark being. That&rsquo;s irrational and
insane.&rdquo; One way or another, that&rsquo;s what all of your egos
are doing. Every step forward that you take toward the Light, so to
speak, is met with reluctance and resistance.

But I will give you a helpful hint. Pay attention to the *deep feel* of
the Light, the deep *feel* of the Clarity that is becoming illuminated
in you as you persist in turning toward the Altar, in turning to the
Holy Spirit, in yielding to the Father&rsquo;s Will. Pay attention to
the deep feeling of the inspiration that comes. Pay attention to the
feel of the deep illumination, the inspiration, because it&rsquo;s not
just intellectual information. It&rsquo;s as though sensation is
returning at the deepest levels to the Christ That You Are and
registering with you. And as a result, there is always accompanying it
an assurance, a steadfastness, a stability, a groundedness in more
universal terms that you begin to feel associated with you. And this is
something which has never come from the definitions and meanings you
have independently applied to yourselves.

This more universal groundedness includes within Itself what can only be
described as the courage to violate the definitions you have given to
everything and to violate the insistence of others that you not rock the
boat by embracing something that goes beyond the mutually-agreed-upon
definitions.

The returning of Sanity is recognizably good, solid, stable, like an
infinite Rock of Gibraltar. And even though you feel it growing
minutely, as though sensation is returning to a small part of you, you
can recognize Its God-ness, Its Divinity, Its Reality with a capital
&ldquo;R&rdquo;. And you need to pay attention to this feeling so that
as the egos of others and your very own ego conditioning tells you,
&ldquo;Close your eyes! Close your eyes! The Light&rsquo;s coming! Close
your eyes!&rdquo;, you may say with courage that&rsquo;s coming from a
more universal place: &ldquo;No. No. I am going to continue to keep my
eyes open and invite the Light. I am going to continue to turn within to
the Holy Spirit and inquire of it What Truth Is rather than relying upon
what all of us together have decided truth is.

&ldquo;And when you tell me that if I do this I am going to go crazy, or
when you tell me that if I persist in this you are going to get very
angry and you will give me hell for it, I will persist in keeping my
eyes open because you know what? In spite of what you say, and in spite
of the so-called rules that we&rsquo;ve all set up by means of our
mutually-agreed-upon definitions, the Light that I&rsquo;m beginning to
sense within me as the sensation of my True Identity emerging in my
Awareness, it tells me that the sense of conflict that you are
suggesting you will confront me with, or the sense of conflict that you
are suggesting I will run into in my mind because I&rsquo;m on the verge
of insanity, is something that only seems to have existence as long as I
am refusing to pay attention to this Light, this inspiration, this
returning deep sensory Awareness of my Divinity is telling me.

&ldquo;I am going to stop using all of the rules we&rsquo;ve set up
together. I&rsquo;m going to stop using and relying upon all of the
safeguards that we have put in place together to save us in the face of
a fundamentally hostile existence, and I&rsquo;m going to risk the
chance that when I don&rsquo;t respond the way we&rsquo;ve all agreed we
ought to respond, I&rsquo;m going to risk the chance that that will
result in the problems we&rsquo;ve all been seeing together dissolving,
because they weren&rsquo;t real in the first place, because that&rsquo;s
the promise I am feeling in the increasing sensory Awareness that
I&rsquo;m having of my Divinity as a result of my turning to the Holy
Spirit, turning to the Altar within to the Light within.&rdquo;

So, the use of projection allowed you to dissociate yourself from the
Father, and then dissociate yourself from your Brothers and Sisters and
indeed all of Creation. That&rsquo;s what projection did for you.

Continuing&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
We have learned, however, that
there is another use of projection. Every ability of the ego has a
better counterpart because its abilities are directed by the mind, which
has a better Voice.
</div>

You will remember that I have said you are all Christs believing that
you are not the Christ and behaving according to your belief. So now
you&rsquo;re behaving as though you&rsquo;re not the Christ, but
you&rsquo;re using all of your Christly capacities to do it because just
believing that you&rsquo;re not the Christ doesn&rsquo;t make you cease
being What You Are.

So, it says here&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Every ability of the ego has a
better counterpart because its abilities are directed by the mind,
&hellip;
</div>

And there&rsquo;s only one mind whether it&rsquo;s being used well or
used poorly, and it&rsquo;s the Mind of Christ. It&rsquo;s the
Christ-Mind, which is the only Mind any of you are at the moment whether
you&rsquo;re using it constructively or destructively, poorly or well,
consciously or unconsciously.

Again&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Every ability of the ego has a
better counterpart because its abilities are directed by the mind, which
has a better Voice. The Holy Spirit as well as the ego utilizes
projection, but since their goals are opposed, so is the result.
</div>

So there&rsquo;s a better counterpart to projection of the ego which all
of you frown upon, and that is the projection of the Holy Spirit, which
when you begin to turn toward the Altar within and desire to know What
Truth Really Is and you listen, the Holy Spirit provides to you why? So
that you may look with new eyes at your Brother and Sister and your
world. But what does that mean, &ldquo;looking with new eyes&rdquo;? It
means sending out new messengers, doesn&rsquo;t it? So that your world
might reflect back to you the messengers you&rsquo;re sending.

Continuing&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit begins by
perceiving YOU as perfect. KNOWING this perfection is shared, He
recognizes it in others, thus strengthening it in both. Instead of anger
this arouses love for both BECAUSE IT ESTABLISHES INCLUSION. Perceiving
equality, the Holy Spirit perceives equal needs. This invites Atonement
automatically because Atonement IS the one need which, in this world, IS
universal. To perceive yourself this way is the ONLY way in which you
can find happiness in the world.
</div>

That doesn&rsquo;t mean it&rsquo;s the only way you can experience
happiness in this god-awful place called the world. It means that
anywhere at any time the only way you can experience happiness is when
you&rsquo;re sending out Messengers of Love, when you&rsquo;re sending
out messengers that recognize equality, when you&rsquo;re sending out
messengers that recognize God there.  You see? That&rsquo;s the only way
you&rsquo;re going to be able to experience happiness in the world.
That&rsquo;s the only way you&rsquo;re going to be able to experience
happiness in the Kingdom of Heaven, which is what you have been looking
at and calling derogatorily &ldquo;the world.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To perceive yourself this way is
the ONLY way in which you can find happiness in the world. That is
because it is the acknowledgment that you are NOT in this world, for the
world IS unhappy.
</div>

In other words, it&rsquo;s an acknowledgement that you&rsquo;re not in
the definition that you&rsquo;ve all created which was based upon an
unconsciousness of its Source because you were choosing to be
unconscious of your Source. And both sources are One&mdash;God. You see,
as I said, when you say to your Brothers:

&ldquo;I am not going to react to your threats of violence or harm to me
if I disobey the mutually-agreed-upon definitions that we&rsquo;ve all
signed in imaginary blood and fellowship and for eternity. I am not
going to abide by these because this almost sensory Awareness deep
within me of What I Divinely Am is making me aware that threat itself,
that vulnerability itself, which you are threatening me with is
part-and-parcel of the fundamental premise we&rsquo;ve based our
definitions upon, which is that this existence has nothing to do with
God, that it just happened in the middle of something by chance. And
there&rsquo;s nothing natural about it. And there&rsquo;s nothing about
us that is fundamentally unified. We&rsquo;re a haphazard lot who
through some amazing capacity we came upon have been able, in spite of
our alienness to each other, to come to mutual agreements that have
allowed us to experience harmony and cooperation.

&ldquo;The fundamental premise that all of this is a fluke and
unnatural, and that therefore existence is nothing more than a reduced
chance of harm coming to us in what is a basically hostile existence,
this is not true.  And I&rsquo;m not going to join in affirming or
reaffirming it because the Light that is illuminating me from within
says that the hostility is a result, the vulnerability is a result, of
believing a fundamental lie and basing everything upon it. And your
invitation to me to not abandon these mutually-agreed-upon definitions,
and your threat to violate me if I do, are as false as every other
assumption that has been built upon the fundamental lie. And therefore,
I will persist in inviting in the Light, and yielding to the Light, and
leaning into It so that It might support me, rather than our
well-established mutually-agreed-upon definitions.&rdquo;

So, again&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To perceive yourself this way is
the ONLY way in which you can find happiness in the world. That is
because it is the acknowledgment that you are NOT in this world, for the
world IS unhappy.
</div>

And it&rsquo;s an acknowledgement that you&rsquo;re not in this world
because this world is one that has been made-up out of a mind
unconscious of what it is and unconscious of its Source, and unconscious
of what it&rsquo;s using in order to make-up its imaginative world of
definitions. And this Christ That You Are has never been in this world
that you&rsquo;re suffering from and isn&rsquo;t right now.

You know what? It&rsquo;s just a damn good projector. Or shall I say, a
divinely good projector?

Continuing&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
How else can you find joy in a
joyless place EXCEPT by realizing that you are NOT there? You cannot be
anywhere that God did not put you, and God created you as part of Him.
That is both WHERE you are and WHAT you are. It is COMPLETELY
unalterable.
</div>

If it&rsquo;s completely unalterable, it hasn&rsquo;t been altered. And
anything less than that that you seem to be experiencing isn&rsquo;t
what is happening, or let us say, it&rsquo;s not all that is happening.
None of you are having any totally original false experiences.
You&rsquo;re all having distorted experiences of something Real because
the only thing in front of you to distort or alter is God Infinitely
Being God called Creation. So everything that you&rsquo;re seeing with a
little twist or bias applied to it so that you think it&rsquo;s your
creation, or you think it&rsquo;s what you have decided it is,
hasn&rsquo;t stopped being What It Divinely Is.

And that&rsquo;s why I say, look at the flowers, look at the table, look
at the trees, look at your Brother with innocent eyes and curiosity
asking God or the Holy Spirit, &ldquo;What is the Truth here?
What&rsquo;s the capital &lsquo;M&rsquo; Meaning of this which has to be
some aspect of Creation, even though I have conditioned myself to see it
with such a bias applied to it that it doesn&rsquo;t look like it has
anything to do with God at all? What is the Truth here?&rdquo; You see?

Again&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You cannot be anywhere that God did
not put you, and God created you as part of Him. That is both WHERE you
are and WHAT you are. It is COMPLETELY unalterable. It is total
inclusion. You can not change it now or ever.
</div>

And I will add: And, therefore, you never have! Therefore, what you
believe something to be, if it&rsquo;s not what God is Being, you never
succeeded in creating it, you never succeeded in making it Real. But you
have succeeded in fooling yourself enough to be able to ignore What God
Is Being there in preference to the hit you get, the ego hit you get at
being able to have an experience, or thinking that you&rsquo;re being
able to have an experience, that God did not create. And, again
it&rsquo;s a bunch of crap. Another way of saying it is it&rsquo;s
insanity.

How is the fearful, horrible world that an insane one sees corrected? By
his perception changing, because the world never became what he thought.
Atonement is you coming back into your Right Mind. And you coming back
into your Right Mind is a result of paying attention to the fire in the
middle of you that could never be put out, the Altar, the Light that is
the Holy Spirit that is nothing more than your Right Mind that
didn&rsquo;t go anywhere, and inviting it in even though it seems as
though you might end up shifting allegiance from who you know you are to
something [small laugh] that only God knows what it is, it&rsquo;s
certainly not you. And yet, it is you. And as you invite it in and
embrace it, you are embracing your Right Mind, you are embracing your
Self, and the experience does not constitute a loss of identity. It
constitutes a new, expanded, all-inclusive, non-exclusive Conscious
Experience of Being.

And how do you&hellip; how do you make this begin to happen? You begin
to make it happen, you begin to cause the Movement to occur of this
shift by deciding to abandon your best definition of your Brother and
Sister, to abandon your best definition and daring to say, &ldquo;I wish
to have this one be the object of my affection. Father, help me see this
one as he is or she is. Help me to see this plant or this tree as it is
so that I might acknowledge it in Your Sight, or with Your Sight, from
Your Viewpoint.&rdquo;

Why? So that you begin to send out Messengers of Love, sending out
Messengers of the Acknowledgement of the Truth about that one or that
thing. Why? So that you engage in the one act that breaks your
isolation, that undoes your bill of divorcement.

Again&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is total inclusion. You cannot
change it now or ever. It is forever true. It is not a belief, but a
FACT.
</div>

You see, you don&rsquo;t want just better beliefs. You want the Truth. You
want the Facts.

Continuing&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Anything that God created is as
true as He is. Its truth lies only in its perfect inclusion in Him Who
alone IS perfect. To deny this in any way is to deny yourself AND Him,
since it is impossible to accept one WITHOUT the other.
</div>

And there it is. When you denied the Father, when you got this imaginary
bill of divorcement, you not only lost the Father apparently, you lost
your Identity.

Again&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To deny this in any way is to deny
yourself AND Him, since it is impossible to accept one WITHOUT the
other.

The perfect equality of the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s perception is the
counterpart of the perfect equality of God&rsquo;s knowing. The
ego&rsquo;s perception HAS no counterpart in God, but the Holy Spirit
remains the bridge between perception and knowledge. By enabling you to
use perception in a way that PARALLELS knowledge, you will ultimately
meet it and KNOW it. The ego would prefer to believe that this meeting
is impossible, yet it is YOUR perception which the Holy Spirit guides.
</div>

Again&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego would prefer to believe
that this meeting is impossible, yet it is YOUR perception which the
Holy Spirit guides. You might remember that the human eye perceives
parallel lines AS IF they meet in the distance, which is the same as in
the future, if time and space are one dimension.  Your perception WILL
end where it began. EVERYTHING meets in God because everything was
created BY Him and IN Him.
</div>

Do you realize that you couldn&rsquo;t possibly seem to have one false
idea?  You couldn&rsquo;t seem to have one small belief. You
couldn&rsquo;t possibly have the most minute misunderstanding if it
weren&rsquo;t for the fact that God exists and you&rsquo;re the Christ.
I see some shaking their heads. The only way you can seem to have an
illusion is if there&rsquo;s Truth. And the only way you can seem to
yourselves to be humans having false perceptions is because you are the
Christ. There couldn&rsquo;t be a *part*, there couldn&rsquo;t be a
partiality if there weren&rsquo;t a wholeness.

And if you all want to take the Conscious Experience of Being which is
without limit and you want to narrow it down to a few dozen things,
we&rsquo;ll say, that you want to occupy your mind with, and you focus
your attention on those ten or twelve things so that you&rsquo;re no
longer paying attention with focus on the rest, you can seem to create
for yourself an illusory sensation of existence. That sensation being
one of a mind attentive to ten or twelve things only, and also a mind
which no longer knows What It Is. But remember that this is the Christ
focusing its attention consciously on purpose in a manner which causes
this Christ to forget Who It Is without ceasing to Be What It Is. Is
that clear?

So, the Atonement, you coming back into your Right Mind, is not a matter
of growth of some puny, little piss-ant mortal into a Divine One. And
there&rsquo;s not a great distance that needs to be traversed. It
requires one thing: the momentary realization that you&rsquo;re not
here, you&rsquo;re not in the world, you&rsquo;re not in your
definition. That you are the Eternal, Infinite One That God Is Being
right now using its capacities to create this highly-focused and limited
awareness of All That Is.

You believe that you are in the middle of that finite focus. But you
aren&rsquo;t. You&rsquo;re still the Infinite Christ. You&rsquo;re still
the Presence of God being the Wholeness of Mind That God Is right where
you are.

So I will keep saying this in many different ways until the light bulb
goes on, and you say, &ldquo;Oh! Yeah!&rdquo; And you let go of the
tininess, you let go of the focus of your attention, and the commitment
you bring to confirming the tininess and maintaining it in its tininess,
and your insistence upon keeping your eyes closed as the Light comes, as
the Light comes.

&ldquo;Here come the judge! [escalating loudness] Here come the judge!
Here come the Light! Close your eyes everyone! Here comes the judge. Oh!
Here come the judgment. Here come the Light! Oh! Here come the judgment.
The Light will uncover [small laugh] my insanity.&rdquo; No! The Light
will uncover your Sanity. The Light will exonerate you by showing you
that nothing that you thought you did in opposition to God by saying,
&ldquo;But Father, I&rsquo;d rather do it my way,&rdquo; that none of it
ever happened as a fact, and therefore there is nothing for you to be
held accountable for and there is no debt for you to pay because you
can&rsquo;t be punished for what you never did.

Continuing&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God created His Sons by extending
His thought and retaining the extensions of His Thought in His Mind.
</div>

You see, God did not extend His Thoughts and project them outside His
Mind. That&rsquo;s what the ego does. God extended His Thoughts and
retained the Extensions of His Thought in His Mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
ALL His Thoughts
</div>

&hellip; which means every single one of you, and every leaf, every
petal, every tree, everything.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; are thus perfectly united
within themselves and with each other because they were created neither
partially nor in part. The Holy Spirit enables you TO PERCEIVE THIS
WHOLENESS NOW.
</div>

Not off in the distant future. Not after there&rsquo;s been a tremendous
soul growth, but right now, right here because here and now are the
Kingdom of Heaven. Here and now are Reality. Here and now is God Being
Everything. And What It Is In God&rsquo;s Truth is What The Christ That
You Are at this very moment is meant to be experiencing and
acknowledging and loving and conscious of so that you send out the
Messengers of Love, you send out the Messengers of the Acknowledgement
of What Is True. The Acknowledgement of God is glorifying God, as we
talked about, now.

Continuing&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You can no more pray for yourselves alone than you can find joy for 
yourself alone.
</div>

Likewise, you can no more condemn yourselves alone than you can find joy
for yourself alone. Everything you do, you don&rsquo;t do alone. And
while you&rsquo;re imagining that you&rsquo;re separate, everything you
do is a projection. You project your affection to that alien over there
who happens to be pretty cute. You see what I mean? Or you project your
judgment out there. Whatever you do to yourself, you do to everyone
else. And you project it to that other one out there who is outside of
your mind, which means you are not recognizing yourself in them. Which
means that in actuality it&rsquo;s as though the Christ That You Are
that is one with every single one of his Brothers and Sisters and all of
Creation because it&rsquo;s All One In God is saying, &ldquo;That
Brother out there is not me. I am choosing to imaginatively see him as
different from me, and I am&hellip; I&rsquo;m doing it very well. And he
really does seem to be out there to me. And boy is he ugly.&rdquo;

&ldquo;I wouldn&rsquo;t want to be seen with him. I only want to be seen
with the beautiful people, because that will be good for my
reputation.&rdquo; And yet, you know what? The beautiful person that
that ego finds will be somebody that the ego that&rsquo;s looking for
the beautiful person doesn&rsquo;t feel equal to. And so they will be
embracing a beautiful alien, a beautiful different kind of being,
because when you&rsquo;re in whatever fantasy you&rsquo;re in, you
don&rsquo;t feel good about yourself because once again you don&rsquo;t
have any identity of your own. You see?

But still, understand this. *This is all being done by the Christ.* You
don&rsquo;t stop being the Christ just because you are behaving in an
un-Christlike way. But when you are the Christ behaving in an
un-Christlike way, you forfeit your power. You forfeit your power or
capacity to see yourself truly. And you forfeit your capacity to see
Creation truly. And therefore, you forfeit the Joy that is inseparable
from your being the Christ. You forfeit the power to be co-creators with
God. And thus, whatever you do doesn&rsquo;t actually get done except in
the imagination.

Continuing&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Prayer is the restatement of
INCLUSION, directed by the Holy Spirit under the laws of God. God
created you to create. You cannot EXTEND His Kingdom until you know of
its wholeness.
</div>

In other words, nothing you do will be Real until you take the steps
necessary in order to abandon projection and engage in extension. And
it&rsquo;s very simple. You will not feel/know what to extend until you
let the Father, or the Holy Spirit, inform you of What The Truth Is,
because when you know the Truth, that is what you will spontaneously
extend, as a light bulb going on. &ldquo;Ah! Ha! That&rsquo;s what it
is!&rdquo; And when you say, &ldquo;That&rsquo;s what it is,&rdquo; the
messenger has gone out. And in that instant, the messenger will come
back confirming it because your thought is parallel with God&rsquo;s. In
other words, there is no bias applied to it that gets it just a little
bit out of sync with the Truth.

Now it may seem as though your world is feeding back to you information
that says there are urgencies and emergencies of various kinds that call
for you to respond with fear, with emotion, with rejection, with fear,
something other than your choice to let the call remind you to turn
within to the Holy Spirit so that you might gather the Truth of things
from where the Truth is available to you, so that you might extend the
Acknowledgement of Truth rather than project your conditioned reaction
to the illusion. And this is very important.

&ldquo;I will. Okay. Okay. I will. I&rsquo;ll get to the Truth of this,
but first I&rsquo;ve got to deal with the ruckus that&rsquo;s going on.
If I don&rsquo;t deal with the ruckus that&rsquo;s going on, it will
mean that I&rsquo;m insensitive. It will mean that I&rsquo;m not
compassionate. It will mean that I have no humanity in me
whatsoever.&rdquo; But remember this, folks. You can&rsquo;t correct the
problem from the level of the problem. You can&rsquo;t correct the flaws
in the mutually-agreed-upon definitions from the level of the
mutually-agreed-upon definitions.

If you want to be sensitive, compassionate, humane then go to the Altar
immediately so that you don&rsquo;t get churned up emotionally. And so
that your feelings might arise out of the influx of Truth that the Holy
Spirit which is nothing more than your Right Mind infills you with so
that then your actions constitute an extension of the Acknowledgement of
Truth that elicits an entirely different response and effect in your
world that will be recognized as loving, thoughtful, humane,
considerate.

&ldquo;Oh, but the problem is real! The problem is dire. It calls for a
spontaneous knee-jerk reaction, or response. It calls for me to respond
from my best common sense. It requires&hellip;&rdquo; What you&rsquo;re
saying is that it requires you to respond having neglected to go to the
place where the response that would correct the situation comes from,
which is your reunion with that which is nothing more than your Right
Mind, the Holy Spirit, God.

And you must get it through your heads that the only truly corrective
response is one that comes from that joining. One that comes not from
assessing the human condition, but one that comes from quickly [snaps
fingers] turning within and saying, &ldquo;Father, what do I need to
know here? Father, what is the Truth here that will correct the
situation? I wish to be the Place where the Truth that would correct the
situation can shine through.&rdquo; And that needs to become your
knee-jerk response.

That needs to become your knee-jerk response: to check in with the
Father [snaps fingers] instantly because you&rsquo;ve done it so often
that it has become a habit. Right now your habit is to engage in
everything with reaction, whether it&rsquo;s a reaction of joy, or a
reaction of fear, or a reaction of vulnerability, a reaction of
depression. You see what I&rsquo;m saying?

And I&rsquo;m saying that nothing that you might be faced with, or have
been faced with recently, nothing requires you to neglect to go to the
Holy Spirit first. And nothing will correct an emergency&hellip; nothing
will correct an emergency that doesn&rsquo;t arise out of inclusion. And
inclusion will not arise from your current conditioned minds, your
current conditioned thinking.

Correction will come from the inspiration that infills you because you
have turned instantaneously to the Source of the Knowledge of Truth so
that it might dawn in your mind, so that you might see it with your
eyes, and having seen it you are your eyes extending the Acknowledgement
of Truth into your world which is not outside of your mind and is not
outside of you, but is some aspect of the Infinitude of Your Being so
that the whole corrective procedure, if you will, is one of conscious,
inclusive Wholeness.

Now mind you, this is not something you will&hellip; these are not
factors that you&rsquo;ll keep together in your mind, because you
won&rsquo;t be engaged in control at all. This isn&rsquo;t something for
you to get your mind around so you can control it. It&rsquo;s the Christ
State of Mind that is your Very Being at this moment, even though
you&rsquo;re not experiencing it. And all of what I described is a
simultaneous, automatic extension that is unavoidable in the face of the
Conscious Experience of Knowing God&rsquo;s Truth, of Knowing the
Presence of God in what is in your mind and what you&rsquo;re
experiencing.

The Christ Mind sends out Messengers of Truth, projects the
Acknowledgement of Truth, but never projecting it outside of Itself, so
that the act is an act of integrated infinite Wholeness, Oneness, that
is demonstrated, if you will, in the Conscious Experience of Undivided
Perfection, and therefore the complete absence of conflict&mdash;what
would be called healing.

And I will leave you with that for the evening. I love you all.

I look forward to being with you here next week. I look forward to your
recognizing my being with you throughout the week. Remember to include
me. Don&rsquo;t forget about me, in other words.

Thank you.

[^1]: T6.2 The Uses of Projection

