---
title: Jan 25, 2004
ref: T6.2 The Uses of Projection
alink: "/acim/text/06/chap0602/"
---

Good afternoon. And I welcome everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
internet as well.

We have been learning about the uses of projection. And more than
anything, we&rsquo;ve been uncovering the fact that what you ultimately
want to be is what you are at this very moment. I have been illuminating
ever more clearly that you should not see your Awakening, or your
arriving at your ultimate destination, at some point in the distant
future, but rather take hold of it in the moment you&rsquo;re in,
because no matter how you&rsquo;re imagining yourself to be, and no
matter how well you have convinced yourself that you are what you
believe you are, you are, every single one of you at this instant
nothing less than the direct Expression of God, as Perfect and Flawless
as God&rsquo;s Expression Is.

And so don&rsquo;t lazily wait for the future to come. Be vitally
curious in every moment to what? To see your world transformed? Well,
yes, but more than that. To see your perceptions transformed. Be curious
and alert for any manifestation of a change in which you are seeing
everything, a change in which you are experiencing existence.

If you just think that it&rsquo;s the world out there that&rsquo;s going
to be transformed, you are likely to overlook your absolute and direct
connection with everything you&rsquo;re seeing. And it will be possible
for you to think that everything out there, well it will change but all
of the factors out there will contribute to how fast or slow it changes.
And you will lose sight of the fact that in order for anything to change
out there, improve, more closely identify the Kingdom of Heaven, you are
the one who is going to have to be willing to look at it, not only in a
new way, but also with a new sense of Who It Is That You Are observing
everything. And that yes, you are right now the Ultimate Christ. You are
right now nothing more and nothing less than What God Is Originating
right where you are moment by moment by moment by moment as long as
you&rsquo;re experiencing time.

So, for the rest of the day today and tomorrow when you wake up, let
there be a sense of expectancy, because you don&rsquo;t have to wait
until we get through the whole Course to be willing to see things As God
Is Seeing Them, which it is your Birthright to be experiencing because
God literally didn&rsquo;t give you any other means to observe
everything than His Way.

You could say that God has extended His Mind and you are the Extension.
But in His extending His Mind, He did not project It outside Himself,
and therefore your having the Mind of God is something that is occurring
within God and is not separate in any way. And therefore, you are the
Presence of God. Not you are the Presence of God, but you are the
Presence of God Being All There Is. Again, you are not God, but God Is
All There Is of you.

Now that&rsquo;s the fact at this moment. And that&rsquo;s the fact that
you have to stop doubting. That&rsquo;s the fact that you have to stop
seeing as an experience awaiting you some time in the future. You see?
God isn&rsquo;t withholding the experience from you. That means
it&rsquo;s available to you and that means it&rsquo;s your Birthright.
And that means that all there is to this process of awakening is not a
bunch of hard work, but a simple willingness to embrace your Birthright.
And the way to embrace your Birthright is to annul the bill of
divorcement and invite God back in.

Again I will say that coming from a tiny, separated sense of yourself,
it will feel to you as though doing this means yielding to a power
greater than you, becoming subject to something other than you. And
you&rsquo;re just going to have to tough that one out. You&rsquo;re
going to have to accept it, go ahead and experience it and persist in
inviting God in. Because the fact is that in your inviting God in,
making room for God, and being willing to be subject to Him apparently,
your Right Mind will be restored to you and you will find that you are
One with God, because God Is All There Is to you. And there won&rsquo;t
be two of you&mdash;God and this you that is subject to God.

The Fullness Of Who And What You Are will be returned to you as your
Right Mind, because you were willing to let it in. That&rsquo;s what
will happen, but it will require you, I&rsquo;m going to say, to let
your ego be subjugated to God, to become subject to God. You are going
to have to bring your capacity to express your will into alignment with
the Will of God. You&rsquo;re going to have to let your will, this puny
little private will that you think you have and that you are expressing
with such vehemence, you&rsquo;re going to have to let that become
subject to the Father&rsquo;s Will.

And as insulting as that will seem to be, it will be your savior because
in letting the Father&rsquo;s Will in, it will illuminate you, not as a
now grand, separate entity, but as the Divine One That You Are and never
stopped being. And the fullness of the Experience of What You Divinely
Are finally being experienced by you will constitute such a joy that you
will wonder what made you delay. Because All That God Is Being will be
felt as all that you are being, because you&rsquo;re no longer claiming
a separate mind from the Mind of God. So you will become the Experience
of What God Is Being. And none of What God Is Being will be projected
outside of you anymore. It will all be part of you. And so the leaf and
the table and the tree and your partner and your friends will be
experienced as the Divine Idea That They Are That God Is Having.

And because there is no conflict in your mind, All of Creation, all of
what you have been calling the world will be seen as unconflicted, will
be seen in its fullness as part of you. It will all still be there, but
it will be incapable of being at odds with you, and you will be
incapable of being at odds with it, and even the concept of being at
odds with it will be unthinkable, unavailable.

And so I reiterate that everything you&rsquo;re experiencing right now
will still be experienced. It&rsquo;s just that it will no longer be
experienced with the torque, the bias, that you have brought to it that
has caused All of Creation to be experienced by you with distress.

Now watch it. Your tendency is when I talk about the way things will be,
or the way things truly are, your habit is to automatically project that
into the future as something to look forward to. Well, if you&rsquo;re
going to look forward to it, look for it here and now. Look for it in
the experience of the sensation of your rear end on the folding chair or
the sofa that you&rsquo;re sitting on here. Because this sensation is
what you&rsquo;re to have a transformed experience of. And what this
folding chair is, is what you&rsquo;re to have a transformed experience
of. And what the sofa is and how it feels is what you&rsquo;re to have a
transformed experience of. And what your derriere is, is what
you&rsquo;re to have a transformed experience of. And if you&rsquo;ll
keep that in mind, you&rsquo;ll keep your Awakening more present in the
moment of consciousness you&rsquo;re experiencing and it will be
available to you more quickly. And this is the good news.

The good news is that there truly is no lengthy process to the
experience of a miracle, which is what? A sudden shift of perception. So
let&rsquo;s remember that. A sudden shift of perception. You&rsquo;ve
all had sudden shifts of perception. And I would ask you, how many of
them were the result of your having sat for two hours studying a text
real hard? They usually happened when you weren&rsquo;t thinking. Right?
Remember this so you don&rsquo;t get sucked into an ethic of study and
self-improvement.

The good news is it&rsquo;s not as hard as you thought it was. And the
reason it&rsquo;s not as hard as you thought it was is because you
aren&rsquo;t what you thought you were. And I&rsquo;m disclosing to you
What You Are so that you might be able to conceive of it and embrace it
even if it&rsquo;s not believable. Because to the degree that you can
conceive that it might be true, you have brought your thinking more in
alignment with capital &ldquo;T&rdquo; Truth, with God&rsquo;s Point Of
View. And in that better alignment, it&rsquo;s much easier for that
sudden shift of perception to occur, when you&rsquo;re not thinking,
when you&rsquo;re defenseless. You see? This is the good news.

It&rsquo;s good news that shouldn&rsquo;t be on the back page of the
newspaper, or at the bottom of the list in your mind. It&rsquo;s the
good news that you should have on your mind constantly, because you
really, really would prefer to in this moment be having a better
experience than the one you&rsquo;re having. If you don&rsquo;t know
that there&rsquo;s an alternative to what you&rsquo;re experiencing in
this moment, you won&rsquo;t be looking for an alternative. You
won&rsquo;t be attentive for it. But I&rsquo;m telling you there is. And
the alternative experience is available here quote &ldquo;in the
world&rdquo; unquote and now without one more of intellectual
self-improvement.

Can you see the smile on my face? It is a smile you should have on yours
and that you should be feeling, and that you should bring with you as
you look at everything and encounter everyone.

Okay. Let&rsquo;s go to the book and I am continuing to read from the
transcript as finished by Bill Thetford.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego CAN accept the idea that return &hellip;[^1]
</div>

&hellip; meaning return to Home &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is necessary because it can so easily make the idea seem so
difficult.
</div>

If the ego couldn&rsquo;t make it to seem difficult easily, it
wouldn&rsquo;t allow you to see this as a possibility. But the ego knows
that because its function is to distract you from your Divinity and
it&rsquo;s already been doing quite well thank you, that if it
let&rsquo;s you know that you can wake up but it can convince you that
it&rsquo;s going to be difficult and get you involved in a difficult
process, if it can do that, it&rsquo;ll allow you to have this idea of
waking up. You see?

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet the Holy Spirit tells you that even return is unnecessary because
what never happened cannot involve ANY problem. It does NOT follow,
however, that YOU cannot make the idea of return both necessary AND
difficult. It is surely clear, however, that the perfect NEED nothing,
and CANNOT experience perfection as a difficult accomplishment because
that is what they ARE.
</div>

I&rsquo;ve said before, you&rsquo;re neither behind the Point of
Perfection, nor advancing toward it. You are at that Point and must
understand yourself there from. In other words, that must be the
starting point of any thought you have. That must be the starting point
of any thought you have about another. You are not struggling to regain
what you lost. You&rsquo;re in a process of discovering that you never
lost it and that the only thing that has separated you from the
experience of it is a thought that you would call a belief. That&rsquo;s
all! Just a thought.

You can abandon a thought. A thought cannot provide resistance.
It&rsquo;s just an idea. It can&rsquo;t struggle against you. You either
embrace it or you reject it. The embrace or the rejection is the only
thing that stands between you and [finger snap] waking up this instant.
That&rsquo;s the culprit, is a thought that you&rsquo;ve chosen to
believe or reject. A thought that you have the choice to believe or
reject which at the moment you&rsquo;re choosing to believe. You see,
that&rsquo;s what you need to be attending to&mdash;not study, study,
study, study, and refine your soul. You see? Don&rsquo;t get confused
and you won&rsquo;t delay your Awakening.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is the way in which you MUST perceive God&rsquo;s creations,
bringing all of your perceptions into the one parallel line which the
Holy Spirit sees. This line is the direct line of communication with
God, and lets your mind converge with HIS. There is no conflict anywhere
in this perception because it means that ALL perception is guided by the
Holy Spirit&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; when you yield to the Holy Spirit, which again is nothing more
than your right Mind, you might say that you, as the ego you think you
are, are bringing yourself into alignment with the Holy Spirit which is
nothing more than your Right Mind. And the Holy Spirit presents to you
understandings of your perceptions that bring your perceptions in
alignment with God&rsquo;s Truth. It&rsquo;s almost as though there are
three parallel lines. You as the ego you think you are wanting to wake
up allows your mind to become subject to the Holy Spirit, which means
you&rsquo;re allowing yourself as the ego you think you are to come into
alignment with your capital &ldquo;S&rdquo; Self, the Holy Spirit, that
which is nothing more than your Right Mind. So now we have two parallel
lines which allow convergence to occur. What you might call connection
with the Altar within you, connection with the Holy Spirit, your Right
Mind. And then there are the parallel lines of the Holy Spirit and the
Father which converge. You see, it&rsquo;s all yielding. It&rsquo;s all
yielding.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is no conflict anywhere in this perception because it means that
ALL perception is guided by the Holy Spirit, Whose mind is fixed on God.
</div>

Whose Mind is fixed on God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
ONLY the Holy Spirit can resolve conflict because &hellip;
{: .omit}

&hellip; ONLY the Holy Spirit is conflict-free. He perceives ONLY what
is true in your mind, and extends outward ONLY to what is true in other
minds.

The difference between the ego&rsquo;s use of projection and projection
as the Holy Spirit uses it is very simple.
</div>

It&rsquo;s all simple.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego projects to EXCLUDE, and therefore to deceive.
</div>

What does it exclude? It excludes all of you that is not inside the
bubble. It says, &ldquo;What&rsquo;s inside the bubble is me, and all
the rest of what I infinitely am is not me,&rdquo; and it projects it
out there. And then, in this very, very biased perception of All That
Is, it begins to interpret everything else. And in interpreting
everything else, it must cover up its dishonesty, because it is
dishonest to say this is me and that is not me when it&rsquo;s all me.
And so it must cover up its dishonesty because if it sees it (the Truth)
it will cause the lie to be seen for what it is and it will cause the
Christ That You Are to abandon the lie and not validate it. And so it
will project it out there as part of what is not it. And it will turn
all that it sees into dishonesty, untrustworthiness, undependability,
the justification for lack of trust. You see? And then its behavior will
reflect that toward All of Infinity.

So, continuing or repeating &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego projects to EXCLUDE, and &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; there we go &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; therefore to deceive. The Holy Spirit projects by RECOGNIZING
HIMSELF in every mind&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and I would add: and in every thing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and thus perceives them as ONE.
</div>

In other words, it perceives them as One and the Holy Spirit is that One
that includes everything.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Nothing conflicts in this perception because what the Holy Spirit
perceives IS the same.
</div>

It doesn&rsquo;t perceive differentness. God infinitely individualizes
Himself, but the Infinite Individualizations of God do not constitute
something different or separate from God. It&rsquo;s all One and that
One is God.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Wherever He looks He sees Himself, and because He is united, He offers
the whole Kingdom always.
</div>

Not just bits and pieces.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is the one message God gave TO Him, and for which He must speak
because that is what He IS.
</div>

Now, if the Holy Spirit is nothing more than your right Mind, then we
could read it this way. This is the one message God gave to you and for
which you must speak because that is What You Are.

You&rsquo;re here to speak for God. In other words, you&rsquo;re here to
represent God. You&rsquo;re here to glorify God by acknowledging nothing
else in anything you see but God because you&rsquo;re seeing God there.
Not seeing what you choose to say a thing is there.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The peace of God lies in that message, and so the peace of God lies in
YOU.

The great peace of the Kingdom shines in your mind forever, but it must
shine OUTWARD to make YOU aware of it.
</div>

And that&rsquo;s why I keep saying you must have an object of your
affection. If you have an object of your affection, you have something
to which you desire to extend your acknowledgement of everything that is
meaningful truly and worthwhile and valuable, everything that identifies
the real Source of the object of your affection, which means that
therefore in your extending your attention you are glorifying God.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The great peace of the Kingdom shines in your mind forever, but it must
shine OUTWARD to make YOU aware of it.
</div>

Here come the Light. Like a coal miner with a helmet on your head that
has a light in it, you must invite the Light so that the Light goes on
so that what? Does a coal miner&rsquo;s light shine on the coal miner?
No! It&rsquo;s extended outward and it illuminates everything that
couldn&rsquo;t be seen in the dark. And so the coal miner brings the
light to the darkness so that he might be able to carry out his
function.

You bring the Light so that it shines on your Brother and your world so
that you might be able to carry out your Function of saying, &ldquo;Yes,
God&rsquo;s there. Yes, God&rsquo;s there. Yes, God&rsquo;s there. I see
God everywhere I look!&rdquo; You extend the Light so that you might
have the glorious experience of fulfilling your Function, which is to
see God.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit was given you with perfect impartiality&hellip;
</div>

Your Birthright was extended to you. All That God Is was extended to you
to be expressed as God right there where you are without hesitation,
without reluctance, without using any measuring stick to see whether you
were worth it. Again, it&rsquo;s the Father&rsquo;s good pleasure to
give you the Kingdom and so you&rsquo;ve received it. There is no other
way God&rsquo;s Gift can be made. God cannot extend Himself partially.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit was given you with perfect impartiality, and only by
perceiving Him impartially can you perceive Him at all. The ego is
legion, but the Holy Spirit is One.
</div>

I&rsquo;m going to say the ego is legion, but it&rsquo;s a
conglomeration of what you might call infinite and infinitely separated
parts that are at odds with each other and can never be in harmony.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; but the Holy Spirit is One.
</div>

And I will say, one in which all of those distinctly separate and
oppositional parts that the ego sees are part of the Infinitude of the
Holy Spirit that is seeing them. And so nothing is left out. All of
Creation is One as the Mind that looks on Creation through God&rsquo;s
Eyes.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
No darkness abides anywhere in the Kingdom, but your part is only to
allow no darkness to abide in your OWN mind.
</div>

That&rsquo;s all. You don&rsquo;t have to tackle the universe. You
don&rsquo;t have to tackle all of the Kingdom. All you have to do is
attend to your own mind. And you attend to your own mind by breaking
this habit of relying vehemently on your best judgments, your best
assessments, your best definitions, and your allegiances to each other
and the mutual agreements you&rsquo;ve made with each other, and turning
toward the Altar, acknowledging that indeed there is another way to look
at this, meaning All There Is. And it&rsquo;s a truer way. And I am
interested in exploring, for lack of better words, the potential that I
hear there is from Raj from looking toward that which is nothing more
than my Right Mind and abandoning my isolation, and letting in a better
view with a willingness to yield to it, even though I don&rsquo;t have
complete confidence.

Even though I don&rsquo;t have complete confidence. You&rsquo;re very
much like the young lady who was faced with the option of kissing the
frog prince. [amused voice] &ldquo;Hey, she might end up just having
kissed a frog!&rdquo; But the Extension of Love might be exactly that
which uncovers the Reality there, we will say the handsome prince. And
you might as well dare to do that which might uncover the Christ That
You Are to yourself. You know, you might as well put your religious
faith to the test. Put your mouth where your theories are.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This alignment with Light is unlimited because it is in alignment with
the Light of the world. Each of us IS the Light of the world, and by
joining our minds IN this Light, we proclaim the Kingdom of God together
and AS ONE.
</div>

You see that? If you and you and you and you, all individually are
extending the Light, you&rsquo;re all in harmony with each other. You
are all jointly expressing the same purpose.

Now, just one of you can do wonders. But what if all of you this week
decide that you&rsquo;re not going to take the bait like you did this
last week when the suggestion came that you were vulnerable and that you
had better defend yourself and that you had better take care of your
defense before you question which teacher you&rsquo;re listening to,
before you consider whose vision you are choosing to employ.

You know, it&rsquo;s not going to change. When you employ the
ego&rsquo;s vision and engage in defense, you&rsquo;re going to hurt,
hurt, hurt. You&rsquo;re going to be in pain, pain, pain. You&rsquo;re
going to be miserable, miserable, miserable. I mean it! And you know it!
It&rsquo;s inevitable! There is no other result from not listening to
the Voice for Truth. What do they say? Stupidity is persisting in doing
what doesn&rsquo;t work.

Remember we&rsquo;re still talking about the good news. And to really be
willing to acknowledge that what doesn&rsquo;t work doesn&rsquo;t work
and saying that this constitutes justification for trying something new,
that&rsquo;s part of the good news.

The next section is entitled:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*The Relinquishment of Attack*

We have used many words as synonymous which are not ordinarily regarded
as the same. We began with having and being, and more recently have used
others. Hearing and being are examples, to which we can also add
teaching and being, learning and being, and, above all, PROJECTING and
being. This is because, as we have said before, every idea begins in the
mind of the thinker and extends outward. Therefore, what extends FROM
the mind IS STILL IN IT&hellip;
</div>

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; what extends FROM the mind IS STILL IN IT, and from what it
extends it knows ITSELF. That is its natural talent. The word
&ldquo;knows&rdquo; is correct here, even though the ego does NOT know,
and is not concerned with being at all.
</div>

The Holy Spirit &hellip;

&hellip; that which is nothing more than your right Mind &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; still holds knowledge safe through His impartial perception. By
attacking nothing, He presents no barrier at all to the communication of
God. Thus, being is never threatened. Your Godlike mind can never BE
defiled. The ego never was and never will be part of it, but THROUGH the
ego you can hear and teach and learn WHAT IS NOT TRUE.
</div>

And I would add: and which never takes on any aspect of Real Being.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego never was and never will be part of it, but THROUGH the ego you
can hear and teach and learn WHAT IS NOT TRUE.
</div>

End of quote. And which can never take on any aspect of Real Being.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
From this, which YOU have made, you have taught yourselves to believe
that you ARE NOT what you ARE.
</div>

Well nothing new about that. We&rsquo;ve been talking about it ad
infinitum.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You CANNOT teach what you have not learned, and what you teach you
strengthen in yourselves BECAUSE you are sharing it. Every lesson you
teach, YOU are learning.
</div>

You meet someone new. Well, let&rsquo;s put it this way. You are fresh
out of college, you&rsquo;re stepping out into the world and you have
decided to be an architect. You go and apply for a job and you get one.
And let&rsquo;s say you&rsquo;ve been working there for two or three
weeks. You&rsquo;re unsure about yourself. You know, you&rsquo;re just
starting out. It&rsquo;s a new job. First job you&rsquo;ve ever had.
Will they like you? Will you be able to perform? Blah, blah, blah. And
as you meet your friends and acquaintances or run into new people, the
question comes up, &ldquo;Well, what do you do?&rdquo; And you say,
&ldquo;Well, I&rsquo;m an architect.&rdquo; Well, you don&rsquo;t feel
like an architect yet. You know that you&rsquo;ve completed school and
you have a job and your job title says &ldquo;architect,&rdquo; but you
have to keep saying it so that the words don&rsquo;t sound as foreign to
you.

And after you&rsquo;ve said it enough, let us say twenty years goes by
and now you have your own office, and you are the owner of it, and you
are running things. When somebody says, &ldquo;Well, what do you
do?&rdquo;, you say, &ldquo;I&rsquo;m an architect,&rdquo; and
there&rsquo;s no doubt in your mind in all. And when you say it, you
expect others to hear that you are an architect with the same degree of
assurance that you&rsquo;re using the word. And why are you now in this
position? Because you&rsquo;ve convinced yourself by saying the
unfamiliar word over and over again, and performing the functions of
your office over and over again. You see? You have taught yourself that
you are an architect by your words and your actions. You see?

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You CANNOT teach what you have not learned, and what you teach you
strengthen in yourselves BECAUSE you are sharing it. Every lesson you
teach, YOU are learning.

That is why you must teach only ONE lesson. If you are to be
conflict-free yourselves, you must learn ONLY from the Holy Spirit, and
teach ONLY by Him. You ARE only love, but when you denied this you made
what you ARE something you must LEARN.
</div>

When you said, &ldquo;But Father, I&rsquo;d rather do it my way.
I&rsquo;m getting a bill of divorcement,&rdquo; you separated yourself
from your Source. You separated yourself from what gave you True, Real
Identity. And the fact that You Are Love became not you, and therefore,
something you must learn.

Now the interesting fact is that you couldn&rsquo;t possibly for a
second cease Being Love. So all of your effort to learn to Be Love by
saying it and by behaving lovingly has still constituted a denial of
What You Are because you already are It, and you&rsquo;re still not
embracing That. That&rsquo;s why I started out today talking about the
fallacy of study, study, study, and improving yourself, because it will
constantly distance you from the fact that you&rsquo;re already at your
destination.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
We said before that the message of the crucifixion was, &ldquo;Teach
only love, for that is what you ARE.&rdquo; This is the ONE lesson which
is perfectly unified because it is the only lesson which IS one. Only BY
teaching it can you learn it. &ldquo;As you teach so will you
learn.&rdquo; If that is true, and it is true indeed, you must never
forget that what you teach is teaching YOU. What you project you
BELIEVE.
</div>

Simple, but powerful words. So, if what you project is what you believe
and you want to have an improved belief, then you&rsquo;ve got to make
different choices about what you&rsquo;re projecting. And one of the
ways in which you can find new ways to project is to stop, I&rsquo;m
going to say, stop frequenting immoral, illicit, unprincipled, unloving,
argumentative, conflicted venues. Let&rsquo;s put it that way. To stop
being curious to see what kind of awfulness there is going on in the
world, especially awfulnesses that might affect you in some way.

Relinquish curiosity about the awfulness of life. Relinquish curiosity
about that which doesn&rsquo;t express Unity. Don&rsquo;t be curious
about evil, would be another way of &hellip; a more traditional way of
putting it. When you&rsquo;re looking for awfulness in yourselves or
others, you send out messengers, evil-seeking messengers, and they will
find what they&rsquo;re looking for. Oh, yes, they will go out, and
they&rsquo;ll find this little part of the Kingdom of Heaven and that
little part of the Kingdom of Heaven, because that&rsquo;s all there is
for them to go out and explore in. And they will bring you back
messages, untrue messages about the Kingdom of Heaven. They will tell
you lies, because a lie was what sent them out. And what was the lie?
The lie was, on the part of the sender, &ldquo;I&rsquo;m not the Christ.
I am not the direct Expression of God at this moment. God is not All
There Is of me. I am independent! And I have a life of my own.&rdquo;
You see, this is a lie.

And you know what? &ldquo;My perception of everything is that I live in
a hostile world.&rdquo; Well that&rsquo;s a lie too. It&rsquo;s not a
hostile world, but it looks that way to the one who&rsquo;s being on the
basis of a lie.

And so a liar sends out messengers looking for the conflicted awfulness
of the world so that they might bring back information that will help
the sender be ready for whatever&rsquo;s coming well-defended in
advance.

Stop doing this, everyone. Stop sending out these messengers. Abandon
the fundamental lie that you&rsquo;re not the Christ, or let&rsquo;s say
abandon the fundamental lie that you have any existence other than What
God Is Expressing Of Himself right where you are. And then send out
messengers looking for confirmation of this Divine Presence Of God That
You Are so that they might come back and confirm to you even more fully
your Divinity and the Divinity Of Your World.

Let go of morbid fascination with the awfulness of existence. Do you
hear me? Abandon morbid fascination with conflict. Abandon morbid
obsession with awfulness that might potentially affect you. &ldquo;Oh
boy,&rdquo; the ego says. &ldquo;That&rsquo;s really stupid.
You&rsquo;re really gonna make yourself vulnerable.&rdquo; Well, the
fact is that morbid fascination with the awfulness of the world and what
effect it might have on you is what is stupid, because it will bring
back to you confirmation of what isn&rsquo;t real and isn&rsquo;t true.
And you will believe it because it&rsquo;s confirming your intent by
sending out those messengers. And you&rsquo;re stuck in an illusion with
no opportunity to experience freedom from it, because the only freedom
from it that you will get is by sending out new messengers, different
messengers that you send out from a true premise, that being that God Is
All There Is Of You and You Are Divine and it&rsquo;s your desire to
experience confirmation of the Divinity Of Everything Else.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you must never forget that what you teach is teaching YOU.
</div>

I&rsquo;m going to say this. What you teach constitutes your sending
messengers out into your world. And they will come back and teach you of
the intent that you sent them out with. What you project&mdash; in other
words, the messengers you send out&mdash; and the dishonesty of your
position, you believe.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What you project you BELIEVE.
</div>

And, again, if you want a new belief, you&rsquo;re going to have to find
something new to project.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The only REAL safety lies in projecting only the Holy Spirit, because as
you see His gentleness in others, your OWN mind perceives ITSELF as
totally harmless.
</div>

In other words, what you see, you be.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Once it can accept this fully, it does NOT see the need to PROTECT
ITSELF. The protection of God then dawns upon it, assuring it that it is
perfectly safe forever. The perfectly safe are wholly benign.
</div>

Why? Why are the perfectly safe wholly benign? Because they&rsquo;re
sending out Messengers of Love. They are not sending out messengers to
find the expected awfulness. You see? That&rsquo;s dishonest, deceitful,
hateful. It&rsquo;s certainly not benign.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
They bless because they know they ARE blessed. Without anxiety the mind
is wholly kind, and because it PROJECTS beneficence, it IS beneficent.
</div>

Now one thing ought to be becoming perfectly clear. As you have read the
Course, and you&rsquo;ve read the way in which the word
&ldquo;projection&rdquo; is used, it has been easy for you to come to
the conclusion that projection is a dirty word. &ldquo;Oh, he&rsquo;s
projecting! Oh, he&rsquo;s projecting!&rdquo; No. Projection is a Divine
Law of Being. God in the Act of Creation is projecting What He Is, but
not projecting it outside of Himself. And God experiences His Projection
and recognizes Himself in It. And so we have this full circle of a
Projection Of What God Is coming full circle back to God, you might say,
because It never left God and God recognizes Himself in It.

What does it say? &ldquo;And God saw everything that He had made, and
behold, it was very good.&rdquo;[^2] Or verily God. You see?
Self-Recognition. Wholeness. Oneness. Unity.

So don&rsquo;t use the word &ldquo;projection&rdquo; or think of it as a
bad word, a dirty word, a metaphysically or spiritually incorrect word.
Rather recognize that projection is inseparable from the Conscious
Experience of Being. You&rsquo;re doing it all the time, either from the
basis of a lie that you believe is true, or an Experience of What Is
Real that you have invited in which causes you to be in perfect
alignment with the Projection that constitutes the Movement of Creation
That God Is that allows you, then, to experience the influx of
God&rsquo;s Point Of View, if you will, God&rsquo;s Perspective, that
allows alignment to occur so that the last vestige of the bill of
divorcement can dissolve and you are awake.

And we can&rsquo;t stop without my reminding you this isn&rsquo;t a long
project for you to engage in. It&rsquo;s available to you at this
moment, and it boils down to the acceptance or rejection of an idea.
That&rsquo;s all! A single idea that can&rsquo;t defend itself against
your choice. And that idea is: You are not God but God Is All There Is
of you. Are you going to accept that idea, or reject it? Whether you do
it or not, this week or tonight, and wake up, the fact is that
that&rsquo;s the only fly in the ointment there is. That&rsquo;s the
only fly in the ointment there is.

I hope you find this all incredibly interesting. It is the incredible
good news. Everybody else might say, &ldquo;Ah, come on. Put your back
into it. Put your back into it, you know. Work! Work! We&rsquo;re doing
it that way. You don&rsquo;t think it can be that easy do you? Come on,
put your back into it. Exert a little effort.&rdquo; It&rsquo;s bait.
Are you going to take hook, line and sinker? Or not?

Whether you do or not, the point is that all you&rsquo;re dealing with
is the acceptance or rejection of a single idea. Now are you the Sons
and Daughters of God.

I love you little Sons and Daughters of God.

You Infinite Sons and Daughters of God. And I look forward to being with
you next week.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Can I ask a question?[^3]
</div>

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
On the way over here tonight or this afternoon, one&hellip; I was
thinking about one time you said that we aren&rsquo;t really here. And
what I heard was the reason I&rsquo;m seeing this stuff is because
I&rsquo;m focusing on it. Because I&rsquo;ve been seeing a lot of the
messengers coming back with meanness and stuff. So what I got today was
when I see any of this going on then what I need to do is focus on the
Holy Spirit that second, not the thing I&rsquo;m hearing, or the thing
I&rsquo;m seeing, or the whatever. Is that right?
</div>

That is correct. And then with the Holy Spirit look upon these things.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
In a different way.
</div>

Because the Holy Spirit will be looking at it &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Correctly.
</div>

&hellip; through the Eyes of Unity and Oneness and can reflect back to
you, report back to you the True Vision. Now let&rsquo;s be careful. To
say, &ldquo;I&rsquo;m not here,&rdquo; it means that you are not in the
perception of the Kingdom of Heaven that you&rsquo;re having that you
call a material world and universe full of mortals.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yeah, that was the startling thing.
</div>

But you are in the Kingdom of Heaven right here and everything you are
seeing is &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Is Real.
</div>

&hellip; some aspect of Reality. It&rsquo;s just that it&rsquo;s seen
through this torque &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
My focus.
</div>

&hellip; that you&rsquo;ve applied &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yes. This focus.
</div>

&hellip; that causes the Kingdom of Heaven to be experienced as
stressful. And causes you to be defensive and to see everything as
justification for defense. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Mmm hmmm.
</div>

Okay.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Thank you.
</div>

Okay. We&rsquo;ll meet again next week. Thank you.

[^1]: T6.2 The Uses of Projection
[^2]: Genesis 1:31
[^3]: Students commenting or asking a question

