---
title: Feb 1, 2004
ref: "T6.3 The Relinquishment of Attack"
alink: "/acim/text/06/chap0603/"
---

Good afternoon. And welcome to everyone who is joining us on the
internet as well.

So, we&rsquo;ve been getting together for quite a while discussing the
Course. Or let us say we&rsquo;ve been discussing the Truth and seeing
in what ways the Course supports the Truth, because there was something
before the Course and what was before the Course was the Truth. And the
Course is an expression of the Truth. The Course is not the end. The
Course is not the point. The Truth is the point.

And I&rsquo;m wondering, I&rsquo;m not going to ask any of you to
respond to this, but I&rsquo;m wondering over the last year and a half,
year and three-quarters that we&rsquo;ve been reading, has your life
been changing? Or better put, is the way you&rsquo;re responding to life
changing? Are you letting life just roll over you? Or are you realizing
that, indeed, there is another way to look at this, and purposely and
conscientiously [exercising] inquisitiveness to see it a different way,
and then actually seeing it in a new way? Have there been healings?

I know, a miracle is quote &ldquo;a sudden shift of perception&rdquo;
unquote. I&rsquo;ve heard it said, &ldquo;It&rsquo;s not about healing.
It&rsquo;s about a sudden shift of perception in your mind.&rdquo;
[small laugh] Well, if that&rsquo;s what you think, if that&rsquo;s what
you believe, that&rsquo;s what you&rsquo;ll get. And it won&rsquo;t be
worth much. What point is there in having a sudden shift of perception,
let us say, so that pain doesn&rsquo;t bother you, and pain continues?
Ah, but you&rsquo;re in bliss, and it doesn&rsquo;t bother you that
you&rsquo;re in pain. If you think that&rsquo;s what it&rsquo;s about,
you&rsquo;re wrong.

What is the sudden shift of perception about? The sudden shift of
perception is going to be about your experience. And when the sudden
shift of perception that constitutes a miracle occurs, it&rsquo;s a
shift of perception in which, I&rsquo;m going to say, God&rsquo;s Truth
registers with you. God&rsquo;s Truth about what? God&rsquo;s Truth
about what you&rsquo;re experiencing. God&rsquo;s Truth about the
Kingdom of Heaven that you&rsquo;ve been looking at and calling the
world, as though it has nothing to do with God. And so a sudden shift of
perception is going to be accompanied with, accompanied by, a shift of
experience.

And so, instead of seeing your perception of Creation, you will see
Creation Itself. And that will be recognizable as healing. Cancer gone.
Deformed joints reformed. The Beauty, the Exquisiteness, the Perfection
of Creation is what will be embodied, instead of your perception being
embodied. And so you will experience a new embodiment whether it&rsquo;s
of your body, what you call your body, or the dying tree in the yard, or
whatever it is that isn&rsquo;t manifesting all of the qualities of
Creation Itself.

Some sudden shifts of perception are little ones so they don&rsquo;t
blow your mind. In fact, some shifts that occur, you don&rsquo;t
recognize until later on when you realize, &ldquo;Wow! If that had
happened a year ago, I would have been really upset. And now, no problem
for me at all. I haven&rsquo;t lost my peace. And I&rsquo;ve been able
to cope with it quickly, intelligently and well. And there&rsquo;s been
no drama or trauma.&rdquo;

What&rsquo;s my point? My point is that if all of this isn&rsquo;t
registering in your life as transformed experience, as the disappearance
of physical problems, or the meeting of a physical problem quickly, then
you&rsquo;re up in your head, you&rsquo;re up in your intellect, and you
are not connected to your Right Mind yet.

A Course In Miracles. Well we&rsquo;re not talking about causing
miracles to happen. We&rsquo;re not talking about causing physical
regeneration to happen. What we&rsquo;re talking about is your
relinquishment of your very definite definitions. The definitions you
have come to on your own or through mutual agreements about the Kingdom
of Heaven that define it as not being the Kingdom of Heaven. We&rsquo;re
talking about abandoning those definitions so that What Each Thing Truly
Is can register with you.

And the way you abandon your current definitions, as we&rsquo;ve been
talking about, is by going within to the Altar. Being willing for a
moment to abandon your best theories and your best concepts, and saying,
&ldquo;Father, I want to know What The Truth Is here. I want You to tell
me what it is, because I want to replace my definition with Your
Perspective. Because I don&rsquo;t want to hurt anymore. And I
don&rsquo;t want my Brother to hurt anymore. And I don&rsquo;t want to
see the tree dying in the yard. Father, I&rsquo;m not asking to change
the tree. I&rsquo;m asking You to help me relinquish whatever it is in
me that is insisting upon seeing something different from the Perfect
Embodiment of Creation That You Must Be Being there, right where that
tree is.&rdquo;

And why? Because when the shift of perception occurs within you that has
been illuminated by the Father, you will see a perfect tree. Not because
you manipulated matter through magic, or the force of the power of
miracle-making, but because you actually were willing to relinquish
whatever you thought the tree was, and whatever you thought the
condition of the tree was, and whatever you thought the conditions were
that brought about the problem the tree was having. And, indeed, your
willingness to relinquish the idea that the world and universe
you&rsquo;re seeing started from a big bang, a purely physical event,
rather than It being the Visibility and Tangibility of the Movement of
God that It has forever been.

You know, we talk about waking up and going Home. Well, what&rsquo;s the
purpose of our getting together and reading the Course and discussing
the ideas? The purpose is to bring it home, to bring the point home. So,
we&rsquo;re talking about bringing it home right into this room.
Bringing it home right into your house. Illuminating the Truth right
where you are and seeing what could only be called physical
transformations. Transformations that would register in a photograph.
And if you&rsquo;re not seeing changes, you&rsquo;re not bringing this
stuff home. And if you didn&rsquo;t realize that that was the point,
I&rsquo;m telling you that&rsquo;s the point so that you will be
inquisitive and attentive in the right place.

In other words, all of this is relevant right now, right here. As
someone else said, &ldquo;It&rsquo;s not pie in the sky after you
die.&rdquo; And if it isn&rsquo;t relevant to you right now,
you&rsquo;re missing it. I&rsquo;m not suggesting that all of you are
missing it, but it&rsquo;s essential for me to make this point. And if
you do say, &ldquo;Well, you know, I haven&rsquo;t seen much
difference,&rdquo; don&rsquo;t ask yourself, &ldquo;What have I been
doing wrong?&rdquo; Let the fact that you&rsquo;re aware that there
hasn&rsquo;t been a lot of difference simply suggest to you that there
is more for you to see, there is more for you to look forward to in this
moment. That this moment is pregnant with illumination, transformation,
sudden shifts of perception, expectancy.

When a woman is pregnant, you say she is expecting. And when
you&rsquo;re in a pregnant moment, which every moment is until
you&rsquo;re fully awake, you should be expecting. When you&rsquo;re
awake, every moment is pregnant, but it&rsquo;s not pregnant with the
abandoning of illusions and the replacement of them by the Truth.
It&rsquo;s every moment is pregnant with the Movement of the Mind of God
that never stops to repeat itself and therefore is always new, always
vitally, significantly awesomely alive, awesomely new.

But for the time being as you are bringing yourselves more and more into
alignment with God, with your Real Mind which is the Holy Spirit, your
expectancy needs to be to have the revelation of Truth that you
haven&rsquo;t been experiencing because you stifled it the moment you
said, &ldquo;Father, I would rather see it my way. Father, I would
rather do it my way. I would like to try being the author of my
experience for a while.&rdquo; And as they say in television, when you
did that you cut the feed. You lost the feed. You lost the connection.
Okay.

Expect your sudden shifts of perception to be relevant to where you are
and to be experienced as transforming in a healing way where more
perfection is manifest. There is more perfection that can be recorded in
a photograph. That there is more perfection that everyone can see. So
that where you limped before, you don&rsquo;t limp now. And where your
fingers moved difficultly and were misshapen by arthritis, they now move
flawlessly and are not misshapen. What are you going to have a new
perception of if it isn&rsquo;t everything you&rsquo;re currently having
misperceptions of? Just think about that. Okay.

We&rsquo;ll go to the book. And as I&rsquo;ve said before, I&rsquo;m
reading from the transcript as it was completed by Bill Thetford.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Safety is THE COMPLETE RELINQUISHMENT OF ATTACK.[^1]
</div>

You know, I&rsquo;ve said it before. When we sit down to have a
Gathering, Paul says, &ldquo;I allow only for that which expresses the
Christ Consciousness and only that which is in harmony with the Purpose
of capital &lsquo;B&rsquo; Being, the Father&rsquo;s Will.&rdquo; In
other words, &ldquo;Let the reign of Divine Truth, Life and Love be
established in me and rule out of me all self will. And may Thy Word
enrich the affections of all mankind and govern them.&rdquo;

Now, the key words here are the words &ldquo;only.&rdquo; &ldquo;I allow
only for that which expresses the Christ Consciousness and only that
which is in harmony with the Purpose of capital &lsquo;B&rsquo;
Being.&rdquo; This is the only way he, or any of you, can relinquish
attack, because if you realize it, anytime you are not yielding to the
Father, you are being the author of thoughts on your own.

And as long as you are attempting to act as an independent agent, a
thinker, you are reaffirming this bill of divorcement from the Father,
which is a denial of God and as we&rsquo;ve said before ends up being a
denial of What You Truly Are. Everything that follows is based upon a
misapprehension of yourself, a misperception of yourself. And therefore,
everything that follows is an illusion. Being an illusion, it has no
possibility of being real, of being truly effective, of being truly
present. And because it arises out of an act of denial, it cannot
express or embody Love. Now the fact is, if it&rsquo;s not embodying
Love, it&rsquo;s embodying nothing at all.

But since you all engage together in being independent in this way, and
you come to mutual agreements, and you base your behavior with each
other on those agreements, and you base your interpretations of
everything that you&rsquo;re aware of on this belief that you can
actually be something functioning on its own, everything that you do
must be recognized as unconstructive, unintelligent. But most
importantly and perhaps the most difficult thing to accept, it is an act
that can have only one effect&mdash;destruction, chaos. It isn&rsquo;t
just unproductive, it hurts. It isn&rsquo;t just meaningless, it causes
you pain. It isn&rsquo;t just not loving, it finds expression in your
relationships in forms that have as their intent your Brothers&rsquo;
and Sisters&rsquo; distraction from What They Divinely Are. That is not
just unkind, it&rsquo;s destructive.

I don&rsquo;t care what thought it is you might have, if you&rsquo;re
having it alone, if you&rsquo;re having it without any Conscious
Awareness of your connection with the Holy Spirit, if you&rsquo;re
having it without any Conscious Connection with your Guide, with your
Brother or Sister who is awake, it constitutes one further emphasis, one
further act of maintenance of your bill of divorcement.

The relinquishment of this kind of behavior&mdash;which can
appropriately be described as attack, attack on Reality, attack on the
Kingdom of Heaven, attack on God because you are denying all of these
things&mdash;the one thing that can cause the relinquishment of this
attack is your willingness to abandon every single one of your thoughts
that you&rsquo;ve had by yourself, even if the thought is, &ldquo;I
really like that woman,&rdquo; or &ldquo;I really like that beautiful
garment,&rdquo; and you know that it is truly an acknowledgement of
beauty.

You must be willing to abandon every single thought that you are having
on your own. And as I&rsquo;ve said before, this seems to mean that you
are bringing, you&rsquo;re narrowing your attention down, because
you&rsquo;re narrowing it down from all, all of the thoughts
you&rsquo;re able to think and all of the potential thoughts that remain
for you to think up, in order to give your attention to only one thing.
&ldquo;I allow only for that which expresses the Christ
Consciousness.&rdquo; What is that which only expresses the Christ
Consciousness for you? It&rsquo;s nothing more than your right Mind
which is the Holy Spirit. And the Holy Spirit speaks for the Father.

&ldquo;I allow only &hellip; &rdquo; It&rsquo;s like saying, &ldquo;I
allow only for what is essential. I allow only for What Is Real.&rdquo;
Like the sculptor, I chipped away everything that wasn&rsquo;t part of
the statue. I was only interested in only that which was part of the
statue. &ldquo;Hey, he could have had the whole block of marble.
Wasn&rsquo;t that more than what he was left with after he
finished?&rdquo; You see?

The thing is that as you go through your day, if you will be willing to
let go of everything that isn&rsquo;t necessary, and you choose to look
at everything only with the Christ Consciousness, only with your right
Mind, only with that which embodies the Father&rsquo;s Perspective,
you&rsquo;re not going to end up having a narrow experience. The Kingdom
of Heaven will be given to you. The Kingdom of Heaven will be revealed
to you in everything you had already been seeing, and more. And your
aloneness, your separation from everyone in this room as well as all of
the Brotherhood that you&rsquo;re not experiencing at this moment
because it doesn&rsquo;t fit into your definitions. &ldquo;Oh, well they
passed on, you know. Someday I&rsquo;ll see them.&rdquo; You see,
that&rsquo;s your definition. It&rsquo;s not true.

Seek ye first the Kingdom of God and all these things will be added unto
you. Separate yourself from God, choose to be an independent authorizer
of the definitions of your world, and all of these things will be taken
away from you. Actually, you will have abandoned all these things,
because you wanted for a while to play with being god all by yourself,
when God was Being All There Was of you all along and you were being All
That God Was Being right where you were.

So, again, the one sentence we&rsquo;ve succeeded in reading so far
today.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Safety is THE COMPLETE RELINQUISHMENT OF ATTACK. No compromise is
possible in this.
</div>

your And lives are demonstrations of the Truth of that sentence. No
compromise is possible in this. You try just a little bit to be an
independent thinker and you are absolutely shut out from the experience
of your Wholeness as you. And what happens is that the experience of
your Wholeness is divided up into a little bit that you have said is
you, and everything else that isn&rsquo;t you. A world and universe that
started with a big bang. Brothers and Sisters who aren&rsquo;t you, who
don&rsquo;t think like you, can&rsquo;t think like you, won&rsquo;t
think like you. And you certainly don&rsquo;t want to think like them.
If anything, you want them to think like you. But you sure don&rsquo;t
want to think like them, do you? Oooo!

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Teach attack in ANY form, and YOU HAVE LEARNED IT AND IT WILL HURT YOU.
</div>

It&rsquo;s absolute. It will hurt you by causing you to be ignorant of
the Truth about you, and you will behave as though you aren&rsquo;t What
You Divinely Are, and every step will be a misstep. Every step will be
fraught with danger and threat. Existence will be frightening. Not
because it truly is, but, quote:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Teach attack in ANY form, and YOU HAVE LEARNED IT AND IT WILL HURT YOU.
Yet your learning is not immortal&hellip;
</div>

In other words, it&rsquo;s not absolute. Your learning is temporary. It
can&rsquo;t be anything else because it&rsquo;s the entertainment of a
mad idea, of an insane idea, and that can&rsquo;t be eternal. There will
come a point where you will decide not to embrace it, and you will
abandon it and it will be over. And what is immortal will be in your
face to accept and honor.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; your learning is not immortal, and you can unlearn it &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; How?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; by NOT TEACHING IT.
</div>

Isn&rsquo;t that utterly simple?

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Since you cannot NOT teach, your salvation lies in teaching the exact
OPPOSITE of everything the ego believes. This is how YOU will learn the
truth that will set you free, and keep you so as others learn it of YOU.
The only way to HAVE peace is to TEACH peace. By learning it through
projection, it becomes a part of what you KNOW because you cannot teach
what you have dissociated.
</div>

Now, here the word &ldquo;projection&rdquo; is being used in its
positive sense.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
By learning it &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; Peace &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; through projection&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; which means the extension of it without putting it outside of
yourself &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; it becomes a part of what you KNOW because you cannot teach
what you have dissociated.
</div>

What you have projected outside yourself.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Only thus can you win back the knowledge that you threw away.
</div>

You threw away something when you said, &ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;d rather
explore this imagination that I have that says I can do things on my
own. And I&rsquo;m going to explore it with all the power of my Being as
the Christ.&rdquo;

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
An idea which you SHARE &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; not put outside of yourself.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
An idea which you SHARE you must HAVE.
</div>

Sharing is something that&rsquo;s always done with embrace, isn&rsquo;t
it? When you&rsquo;re truly sharing, you&rsquo;re embracing the one
you&rsquo;re sharing it with. You&rsquo;re including them in your space,
in your acknowledgement.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
An idea which you SHARE you must HAVE.
</div>

An idea that you share, you cannot lose.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It awakens in you through the conviction of teaching.
</div>

You extend what is established in you. And extending it illumines the
fact that it is established in you.

Again the statement Paul begins with says, &ldquo;Let the reign of
Divine Truth, Life, and Love be established in me, and rule out of me
all self will.&rdquo; All self-authorizations. And when you join with
the Holy Spirit, or the Father, or your Guide, and you be with each
other from that joined place, letting the Holy Spirit or your Guide give
you the words with which to be together with your Brothers and Sisters,
Love is shared and simultaneously established in you in a manner that
you can recognize as you.

And so the Truth about you is strengthened by your sharing. It&rsquo;s
strengthened because it uncovers to you more fully what has been
established in you since the beginning, but which you apparently lost
the Conscious Experience of when you tried to play with the idea of
being independent.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Remember that if teaching is being and learning is being, teaching is
learning.
</div>

That&rsquo;s like saying: If A = C and B = C, [then] A = B.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
EVERYTHING you teach you are learning. Teach only love, and learn that
love is yours, and YOU are love.
</div>

See?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Teach only love, and learn that love is yours&hellip;
</div>

You can manage to do that intellectually, but the real meaning and value
of it hasn&rsquo;t registered with you until the last part of the
sentence dawns on you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and YOU are love.

Teach only love, and learn that love is yours, and YOU are love.
</div>

You could say: Teach only what God reveals to you, and learn that What
God Is, is yours.

But the crowning point of it all is the discovery that you are God. And
when I say that I mean that you are All That God Is Expressing of
Himself Infinitely without reservation is What You Are. In that
experience, you come back into your Right Mind. And the world and the
universe will become so illuminated to you that you will recognize that
it is, and always had been, the Kingdom of Heaven in all of Its Glory.

And I know you&rsquo;re familiar with these kinds of words like,
&ldquo;in all Its Glory.&rdquo; But some words have to be used, and the
purpose of using the words is so that you might have a hint that the
experience that you&rsquo;ve been missing out on is unbelievable, is
something to desire. I could say, is something to look forward to, but I
don&rsquo;t want you to think in terms of time, and so I&rsquo;m saying
is something that is available to you in the moment so bring your
attention fully into the moment without your best definitions
accompanying your awareness in the moment. And be curious.

The next section is entitled:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
THE ONLY ANSWER

Remember that the Holy Spirit is the ANSWER, NOT the question.
</div>

That&rsquo;s like saying: I am the way, not the rut.

I am the Way, not the rut. I am the Truth, not the lie. I am the Life
and not the misperception of It.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Remember that the Holy Spirit is the ANSWER, NOT the question. The ego
always speaks first because it is capricious, and does NOT mean its
maker well.
</div>

Ooo! Who&rsquo;s its maker? Who made your egos? You did. And your ego
does not mean you well. It does not mean the One That You Divinely Are
well. It&rsquo;s task, once you imagined it into being, is to keep you
so distracted that you forget that there is a Place in you, a Place of
Excellence called the Altar where you can re-access your Right Mind.

Repeating &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego always speaks first because it is capricious, and does NOT mean
its maker well.
</div>

Well, if it shut up long enough, you might have enough silence to not be
distracted any longer and remember the Truth about yourself. So the ego
is always ready with an answer, except the answer is a lie and not the
Truth, and therefore, is not a real answer.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego always speaks first because it is capricious, and does NOT mean
its maker well. That is because it believes, and correctly, that its
maker &hellip;
</div>

Meaning the Divine One That You Are.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; may withdraw his support from it at any moment.
</div>

So the ego doesn&rsquo;t give you a moment of peace [laughing] in which
to remember and make the transition.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If it meant you well it would be glad, as the Holy Spirit will be glad
when He has brought you home, and you no longer need His guidance. The
ego does not regard itself as PART of you.
</div>

The Divine One That You Are.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Herein lies its primary perceptual error, the foundation of its whole
thought system.

When God created you, He made you part of Him.
</div>

You see? God projected Himself without projecting it outside of Himself,
which meant that His Creation was part of Him. You were part of Him. The
word &ldquo;part&rdquo; is not the best word because God embodies All Of
What He Is in everything He Creates. And so the Whole of Him is You. But
without it going outside of What God Is, it remains a Conscious
Experience of All That God Is. That&rsquo;s your Function&mdash;to be
the Conscious Experience of All That God Is.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When God created you, He made you part of Him. That is why attack WITHIN
the Kingdom is impossible. YOU made the ego without love, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and, of course, you didn&rsquo;t make the ego until after you
said, &ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;d rather do it my way,&rdquo; got the bill
of divorcement, and acted independently. And independently, you have no
capacity to act with Love because that&rsquo;s derived from your Source.
And if you were connected with your Source, you wouldn&rsquo;t have lost
your Identity, and you wouldn&rsquo;t be engaged in an attempt to act
independently, with self-authority.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
YOU made the ego without love, and so it does not love YOU.
</div>

It&rsquo;s like I said last week. You send out messengers based upon a
lie, the lie being that you are independent. And the messengers will go
out into what? The only thing there is to go out into, the Kingdom of
Heaven, and it will bring you back reports that say it&rsquo;s not the
Kingdom of Heaven. They will bring back lies. They&rsquo;re incapable of
telling the Truth because a lie launched them on their quest.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You could not remain WITHIN the Kingdom without love, and since the
Kingdom IS love, you believe that you are WITHOUT it. This enables the
ego to regard itself as separate and OUTSIDE its maker, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning the Divine One That You Are &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; thus speaking for the part of your mind that believes YOU are
separate and outside the Mind of God. The ego, then, raised the first
question that was ever asked, but one which it can never answer. That
question,&mdash;&rdquo;What are you?&rdquo; &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; except in your mind it was translated into, &ldquo;What am
I?&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
That question,&mdash;&rdquo;What are you?&rdquo;&mdash;was the beginning
of doubt.
</div>

Something totally foreign and impossible to experience when you&rsquo;re
in your right Mind.

Listen to this &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego has never answered ANY questions since, although it has raised a
great many. The most inventive activities of the ego have never done
more than OBSCURE THE QUESTION because you HAVE the answer, and THE EGO
IS AFRAID OF YOU.
</div>

Now let&rsquo;s get a little practical here. What does that mean? It
means that you as you currently perceive yourself to be are afraid of
What You Divinely Are. You are afraid that if you will pay attention to
what I&rsquo;m saying, and you will be willing to abandon your
definitions and lean into this something called the Holy Spirit within
you that&rsquo;s your right Mind, that you will lose your identity.

Do you see the irony of it? You said, &ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;d rather do
it myself. I&rsquo;d rather see it my way. I am enacting a bill of
divorcement.&rdquo; And you lost your Identity! And you created one for
yourself that&rsquo;s purely imaginary. And now I come along. The Truth
reveals itself to you and says abandon your definitions and lean into
the Holy Spirit within you. There is a Place of Excellence in you that
doesn&rsquo;t require you to authorize anything, that doesn&rsquo;t
require you to be responsible for anything, that puts you in a place of
being the constant Acknowledgement of What Is Real with an awareness
that you are not separate from Its Reality and It is not separate from
yours. That It&rsquo;s All One.

And you can grasp the possibility that this experience of indivisible
unity might be bliss. But you are afraid that if you lean into this and
yield to it, that you will lose your identity. Why weren&rsquo;t you
afraid of losing your Identity when you said, &ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;d
rather see it myself, my way.&rdquo; Do you see the irony of it? Because
if you do, it will make it easier for you to make a new decision.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You cannot understand the conflict until you fully understand one basic
fact that the ego does NOT know. The Holy Spirit does not speak first,
BUT HE ALWAYS ANSWERS. Everyone has called upon Him for help at one time
or another and in one way or another AND HAS BEEN ANSWERED. Since the
Holy Spirit answers truly, He answers FOR ALL TIME, which means that
everyone has the answer NOW.
</div>

How do you get someone to answer the phone? You call them. How do you
get an answer from the Holy Spirit, from that which is nothing more than
your right Mind? By asking a question.

&ldquo;Oh yeah, but if I do that, He might really answer, and that would
prove to me that my state of independence is not Real. And his answer
might cause me to move into a new space wherein I wouldn&rsquo;t be able
to pull off this really excellent business deal next Tuesday afternoon
in which I will make a lot of money, but you know unfortunately a few
heads will drop along the way. But nevertheless, you know, if I dare to
ask the Holy Spirit and abandon my determined isolation and let Him in,
it might spoil all of the deals I have gotten set up for myself by
getting everybody to join me in mutual agreements that they don&rsquo;t
realize is going to take advantage of them. I&rsquo;ve set it up in such
away that it looks to them like it&rsquo;s a good deal for them. But
man, I might have to sacrifice.&rdquo; You see?

The ego sense of self that you identify as you is afraid of the Divine
One That You Are. Can you see that? You may not be able to see it in all
of its ramifications, but you can see the principle of it.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego cannot hear the Holy Spirit&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; interesting. Let that sink in. Because if any of you have
gotten an answer from God, if any of you have experienced revelation, if
any of you have experienced the Holy Spirit responding to you and
healing you, it was the Christ That You Are that heard it. I bring that
out so that you might realize that right now you are the Christ. You are
right now the Divine One that the Father set into motion, you might say,
Created by having an Idea that He identified as You and recognized
Himself in. If you have ever experienced communion with the Holy Spirit,
that experience was absolute proof of your Christhood here and now in
this lifetime, if you wish. And it is not something that you will attain
in the future.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego cannot hear the Holy Spirit, but it DOES believe that part of
the same mind that made it is AGAINST it. It interprets this as a
justification for ATTACKING its maker. It believes that the best
defense IS attack, and WANTS YOU TO BELIEVE IT. Unless you DO believe
it you will not side with it, and the ego feels badly in need of
allies, though NOT of brothers.
</div>

&ldquo;Oh, no. No. The ego&rsquo;s my best friend. I promise you. The
ego is my best friend.&rdquo; No, it&rsquo;s not. &ldquo;Well, if it
weren&rsquo;t for my ego, I wouldn&rsquo;t exist today. I wouldn&rsquo;t
have survived all the experiences I&rsquo;ve had. If I hadn&rsquo;t been
smarter than the bastard down the street, or if I hadn&rsquo;t played
dirtier than he did, I wouldn&rsquo;t be here today. Thank God for my
ego!&rdquo; Bullshit. All your ego has ever done is to reinforce the
little willingness you had to play with the idea of being independent
and to cause you not to remember Who You Are. It isn&rsquo;t the best
friend you&rsquo;ve ever had. The whole ego structure is a
self-substantiating process in which ignorance is extended. That&rsquo;s
all.

And as long as you don&rsquo;t challenge that, every day will be
groundhog day. Every year will be groundhog year. Every lifetime will be
groundhog lifetime. What&rsquo;s this all about? It&rsquo;s all about
breaking the rut! I am the Way, not the rut. The Holy Spirit that is
your Right Mind is the Way. And your commitment to your ego is the rut.

I promise you every time we meet and every time I share with you, your
commitment to the state of independence is dissolving a little bit more.
It may not register with you, but I can tell that it&rsquo;s as though
the Energy of your Being begins to glimmer and glisten. There is more
Light moving in you. The Light of you is increasing. And it&rsquo;s a
joy for us to see.

I want you to believe what I&rsquo;m saying. You&rsquo;re not stuck.
You&rsquo;re not stuck. And you know what? If no one else recognizes
what&rsquo;s happening with you, and if no one else seems to be being
blessed by the good that is happening to you, don&rsquo;t become
distracted by it. Because by damn it, every little bit of diminishing
determination to be independent weakens everyone else&rsquo;s resolve to
be independent as well.

Don&rsquo;t become discouraged if what you have to give by being more in
alignment with the Father isn&rsquo;t received, because it will be in
your following through that those who can&rsquo;t relinquish their
determination, their obsession with independence, will be freed. You
will not be able to go out there and take them by the shoulder and say,
&ldquo;Be free. Be free.&rdquo; But you will, by becoming free yourself
with commitment and resolve, be the absence of support for obsessive
determination that weakens obsessive determination in your Brothers
because there&rsquo;s no longer confirmation from you of their point of
view. And because your obvious Embodiment of Perfection and Harmony and
Love will further promote healing for them.

I love you. And I like the Light I&rsquo;m seeing glimmering. It&rsquo;s
a joy. And I look forward to being with you next week. And between now
and then, come chat with me once in a while within yourself. Make the
connection. Break the allegiance to self-determination.

Okay.

[^1]: T6.3 The Relinquishment of Attack

