---
title: Feb 8, 2004
ref: "T6.4 The Only Answer"
alink: "/acim/text/06/chap0604/"
---

Good afternoon. It&rsquo;s good to have you here. And welcome to
everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the internet as well.

I want to remind everyone of the fact that there is no such thing as a
pure illusion. It&rsquo;s easy to rip the phrase off the end of your
tongue, &ldquo;Oh, that&rsquo;s just an illusion.&rdquo; But, again,
there is no such thing as a pure illusion, something that is an actual
existing thing that is an illusion. An illusion is only a
misunderstanding or a misapprehension of Reality believed. It&rsquo;s
always nothing more than a distorted experience of something that is
Real, with a capital &ldquo;R&rdquo;, and therefore, actual.

If you understand this, then if somebody says to you, &ldquo;Well, the
world is an illusion,&rdquo; or, &ldquo;Your body is an illusion,&rdquo;
you may know that it means that &ldquo;the world&rdquo; or &ldquo;your
body&rdquo; is a misunderstanding of, or a misapprehension of, something
Real, a distorted perception of something Real, with a capital
&ldquo;R&rdquo;.

It&rsquo;s good to understand this because then that activates your
curiosity, doesn&rsquo;t it? Or at least it should. &ldquo;Oh, well if
it is a misperception of something Real, what is the Real Something that
I&rsquo;m misperceiving? What is the Something that is there minus the
bias I&rsquo;m bringing to my experience of it?&rdquo; Aha! That opens
you up to the experience of enlightenment. Why? Because you&rsquo;ve
become less defended against What It Is. Because you are willing to call
into question the way you&rsquo;re currently experiencing it. So
you&rsquo;re withdrawing your commitment to your current perception and
becoming undefended against a thing&rsquo;s Real Meaning, and
that&rsquo;s what opens the door.

And that&rsquo;s why I am constantly encouraging you all to become
curious, like a child, with the assumption that the apparently unknown
that you&rsquo;re curious about is benign, not harmful, and at least
interesting, and maybe full of delight that goes beyond anything
you&rsquo;ve imagined. That adds fuel to your curiosity. It increases
the interest you bring to your attention, and that&rsquo;s an invitation
to the more that is there, the Kingdom of Heaven.

There&rsquo;s only one thing for you to have an experience of. And I
know I&rsquo;m getting very monotonous about this, but there&rsquo;s
only one thing available to you to experience. And that is the one and
only thing that&rsquo;s going on&mdash;Reality. Except I insist upon
capitalizing the &ldquo;R&rdquo; of the word &ldquo;Reality&rdquo; to
remind you that it is a Reality beyond whatever your current definition
of reality is, so that you will not just settle for the way things seem
to be to you and you might be curious beyond the limits of the
definitions you&rsquo;ve given to everything.

To know that every leaf, every petal, every tree, every object, is the
Presence of Something Ultimate, Something right now expressed by God
embodying All That He Is, She Is, and that therefore, each thing you
currently see is pregnant with more than you can imagine.

Mind you, all that you&rsquo;re currently seeing is the maximum that you
have been able to imagine. That&rsquo;s all there is to everything you
can see at the moment, because that&rsquo;s all you&rsquo;re willing to
confirm about any given thing is what you have been able to imagine it
is. You see? Well there&rsquo;s a Heaven of a lot more to it than what
you&rsquo;re seeing.

So just remember there&rsquo;s no such thing as a pure illusion.
Illusion is a misunderstanding or a misapprehension of something Real,
with a capital &ldquo;R&rdquo;.

We&rsquo;re reading in the section entitled:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*The Only Answer*[^1]
</div>

And the very first sentence said:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Remember that the Holy Spirit is the ANSWER, NOT the question.
</div>

And I&rsquo;ve been reminding you that the Holy Spirit is nothing more
than your Right Mind. However, there is a question, [small laugh] a
question which has kept you in a constant state of distraction from
experiencing Reality As It Is. And that question is, &ldquo;What are
you?&rdquo; That question came into being when you got your bill of
divorcement from the Father and said, &ldquo;I&rsquo;d rather see
everything for myself. I&rsquo;d rather determine what everything is for
myself. I&rsquo;d rather be the authorizer of the meaning of
everything.&rdquo; Unfortunately, that meant that you became
definition-less yourself and you remained evidently in need of a
definition. And so you made up a definition about yourselves because
there was this inevitable question in the void of lack of Identity,
&ldquo;What am I?&rdquo;

And yet, as we read last week, although the ego has posited that
question, the ego has never answered it. And so you could say that as
long as you have been in this independent, highly imaginative and very
unrealistic state of mind, you have been plagued with the quest for the
answer to that question, when the answer has always been to abandon the
question and get into your Peace and pay attention to the Experience of
Being. The moment you became an orphan by choice, very imaginatively I
might add, the moment you became an orphan, all of yourself that you had
denied in favor of whatever new and creative definition you could come
up with about yourself, could go nowhere. And so, it became quote
&ldquo;the rest of you&rdquo; unquote held in trust while you dallied
with a fascinating adventure of independence. And this quote &ldquo;rest
of you&rdquo; unquote held at a distance from yourself by your
preoccupation with your imagination is your Divinity, the Holy Spirit,
that which is nothing more than your Right Mind.

And so the Holy Spirit is the Answer. Your Right Mind, your True
Identity is the Answer. But it&rsquo;s not the answer to the question,
&ldquo;What am I in my independent state?&rdquo; It&rsquo;s the quest
for that answer that is a straw-dog, a preoccupation with that which can
never be satisfied because there is no answer. And your state of
independence is, itself, a misperception of your existence which is
forever held securely within the grasp of God, because all there is to
you is What God Is Being of Himself right there where you are. All of
What God Is Being as Himself right where you are.

Okay. I&rsquo;m backtracking a little bit for context from last week to
the beginning of the paragraph.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego cannot hear the Holy Spirit, but it DOES believe that part of
the same mind that made it is AGAINST it.
</div>

And we discussed last week, that this mind that made the ego is the
Christ-Mind, the one and only Individuality that you are, the one and
only Mind there is.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego cannot hear the Holy Spirit, but it DOES believe that part of
the same mind that made it is AGAINST it.
</div>

In other words, your Right Mind, your Divinity is against the ego
because it actually is the nonexistence of the ego as a real thing, and
the ego recognizes it&rsquo;s a falsity [its falsity].

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the ego &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; interprets this as a justification for ATTACKING its maker.
</div>

In other words, the mind that made it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It believes that the best defense IS attack, and WANTS YOU TO BELIEVE
IT.
</div>

Well in a way it&rsquo;s not really hard for the ego to convince you
that attack is the best defense, because lacking the Direct Experience
of your Real Identity you feel vulnerable, you feel insecure, and it
does seem reasonable that the only appropriate response is to reinforce
your safety.

Once again, not recognizing that the only thing that will reinforce your
safety is abandoning the question, &ldquo;What am I?&rdquo;, and
abandoning this fascination with an independent stance, and becoming
still and paying attention to the Experience of Being.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Unless you DO believe it you will not side with it, and the ego feels
badly in need of allies, though NOT of brothers.
</div>

Ooo! Why not Brothers? Well that means involvement. That means caring.
That means being willing to operate outside of the bounds of pure
selfishness.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Perceiving something alien to itself in your mind&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning what? Your Divinity, the Truth about you, the Actuality
of What Your Mind Really Is.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Perceiving something alien to itself in your mind, the ego turns to the
body, NOT the mind, as its ally because the body is NOT part of you.
</div>

Now, this can be very tricky if you&rsquo;re not careful to read exactly
what it says.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the ego turns to the body, NOT the mind, as its ally because
the body is NOT part of you.
</div>

What is turning to the body to get as an ally? The ego. Is the ego
perceiving anything truly? So what is this body that it&rsquo;s turning
to? The Visibility and Tangibility of your Individuality which is
Divine, the Manifestation of God right where you are? Do you think that
is what the ego is turning toward for an ally? No. The ego is nothing
more than something, which doesn&rsquo;t exist actually, seeing all of
the Kingdom of Heaven as it chooses to define the Kingdom of Heaven. The
ego is turning to its perception of the Visibility and Tangibility of
You, with a capital &ldquo;Y&rdquo;. It&rsquo;s not turning to the
Visibility and Tangibility of You, with a capital &ldquo;Y&rdquo;, and
looking for an ally there. You see what I&rsquo;m saying? The ego is
turning to a misperception of the Presence of God called You.

And naturally, the ego&rsquo;s misperception of What You Truly Are is
not part of you. This does not mean that there is no body. If you
misunderstand this, you can get into a self-defeating and destructive
state of mind in which you begin to deny your body, not understanding
that what it said was that the ego turns to its misperception, to its
misperception of That Which Identifies You Truly.

And if you begin to discount and deny your body on the basis that it is
a pure illusion, that demeaning attitude will begin to be reflected as
an increased defensive attitude in your mind in which you are constantly
on guard against your body, and therefore constantly sending out
messengers of hate, messengers of distrust, to that which is the
Visibility and Tangibility of your Divine Individuality. It will put you
in a state of self-denial that will, as we said last week, hurt, hurt,
hurt, and it will block healing, healing, healing. It&rsquo;s very
important to understand this.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Perceiving something alien to itself in your mind, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning your Divinity &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the ego turns to the body, NOT the mind, as its ally because
the body is NOT part of you. This makes the body the ego&rsquo;s friend.
</div>

In a way, that&rsquo;s backwards. The ego made the body its friend. The
body does not have a capacity to desire to have the ego as a friend. But
the ego has a capacity to make friends with anything for its own
dastardly, dishonest purposes.

The ego needed to have a home base to operate from in order to lend
credence to its existence. It&rsquo;s like moving to a new town. What do
you do? You find a place to live so you have an address where you can
receive mail. So you become grounded in that town by identifying
yourself there with an address. And the ego needed an address, and it
chose your body to be its address, except that what it was really
choosing was its misperception of your Real Body as its address. And
then, because your body embodies your capacity to feel, the ego used
your feelings to give further substance to its illusory existence. And
it uses your body for sensations of fear and anxiety, as well as peace,
although it&rsquo;s always a false peace when that is what the ego
employs it for.

And because all of this seems to be going on right where something Real
is, meaning the Visibility and Tangibility of your Individuality,
it&rsquo;s very easy for you to say, &ldquo;I am feeling frightened. I
am feeling tense.&rdquo; You see? When all that&rsquo;s happening is
that this definition of yourself that you have come to believe is
feeling the uncomfortableness of its unreality, is feeling that its
unreality is vulnerable to exposure. It&rsquo;s like it&rsquo;s afraid
that the curtain will be pulled back and the manipulator will be able to
be seen. But worse than that, it will become clear that there
isn&rsquo;t even any manipulator there behind the curtain. And so, it
uses What Is Real About You for the purposes of keeping you from Knowing
What Is Real About You.

Is there anything fuzzy about that? Is anyone not understanding what
I&rsquo;m saying?

Okay, continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is an alliance &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; between the body and the ego.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is an alliance frankly based on separation. If you SIDE with this
alliance you WILL be afraid, because you are siding with an alliance of
fear.

The ego and the body &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning the ego and its misperception of what is Real about
You.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; conspire AGAINST your minds, and because the ego realizes that
its &ldquo;enemy&rdquo; CAN end them both merely by knowing they are NOT
part of him&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning the ego and the ego&rsquo;s misperception of your body
which it is using.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; they join in the attack together.
</div>

This does not, again, mean that this body that the ego is perceiving has
a capacity to act on its own. It&rsquo;s that the claim to authority
which the ego puts forth, tries to confuse and fool you about, is used
by the ego to cause your body to convey to you the ego&rsquo;s messages.
In that way they work together, but understand that there is no body
existing, Divinely or illusorily, that has a capacity to govern or
influence.

It is your Body&rsquo;s Function to identify You perfectly. It is your
servant. It is the servant of That Which Is Divine In You, ultimately
meaning God. It has no capacity to act on its own. It only has the
capacity to perfectly reflect that which it is identifying. And the only
thing that it is identifying at any time is the Presence of God
Individualized and Identified as You.

It&rsquo;s very important for this understanding of Body to register
with you, and to be embraced by you, and to be honored by you, because
only in that way will you bring forth the willingness to let go of any
lesser definitions of it that you have been embracing for fear that if
you didn&rsquo;t embrace it, you would die. In other words, if you did
&hellip; if you don&rsquo;t embrace the thought that it is a body
brought into existence by a sperm and an egg, made out of matter, which
has a given lifespan and will naturally and inevitably begin to decay
and ultimately die, if you are not willing to abandon that context, that
definition, and all the beliefs associated with it, you will not be able
to come into a transformed perspective and experience of body in which
healing is inevitable, regeneration and redemption, the coming back into
the spiritual, the coming back into the Experience of the Spiritual
Original of What Your Body Is.

But if you&rsquo;re going to wake up, if you&rsquo;re going to be
released from the trap the ego has created, you&rsquo;re going to have
to step out of the box. You&rsquo;re going to have to be willing to
reach outside your definitions. You&rsquo;re going to have to let new
Meanings, with a capital &ldquo;M&rdquo;, in.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego and the body conspire AGAINST your minds, and because the ego
realizes that its &ldquo;enemy&rdquo; &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning the divine one that you Are.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; CAN end them both merely by knowing they are NOT part of him,
they join in the attack together. This is perhaps the strangest &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; What?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; perception &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; not Truth. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the strangest perception of all, if you consider what it really
involves. The ego, which is NOT real, attempts to persuade the mind,
which IS real, that the mind is its own learning device, and that the
learning device is more real than IT is.
</div>

More real than it, the Mind, is.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
No-one in his right mind could POSSIBLY believe this, and no-one in his
right mind DOES believe it.
</div>

Now is anyone confused about what was just said? I think so.

You are Mind. You are the Conscious Experience of Being. The center and
circumference of you is Mind, Consciousness, in which all experience is
being experienced.

I pick up the piece of paper. [rustling paper noise] I hear it. I feel
it. Where? Out here in front of me? No. In my Consciousness. Where are
you experiencing everything that&rsquo;s going on in this room? Are you
experiencing it in this room? Or is all of what you are experiencing in
this room going on in you as a Conscious Experience, purely mental? Well
I&rsquo;ll tell you, the answer is the latter. Everything is going on in
your mind, even your experience of so-called physicality. It is a
Conscious Experience. The Function of Mind is to be Conscious. To be
Conscious of what? Itself.

Now, Mind is God. The Movement of God&rsquo;s Mind, because God is Life
and therefore Action, the Movement of Mind is Experienced as Conscious
Experience, Mental Experience. Mental Experience of what? Of the Nature
and Character and Infinity and Omnipotence of the Mind that is Moving.
In other words, of God. This Movement of Mind that is God is what you
call Creation. And Creation is as Infinite as the Mind that is Moving.

So, Mind Moves. &ldquo;In the beginning was the Word.&rdquo; And the
Movement is Experienced. &ldquo;And the Word was with God.&rdquo; And
the Movement of Mind that is Experienced is recognized by That Which Is
Being The Movement, in other words, Self-Recognition, God recognizing
Himself in the Movement. &ldquo;And the Word was God.&rdquo;

&ldquo;In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God.&rdquo;
And light bulb going on, &ldquo;The Word was God.&rdquo;
Self-Recognition. The Function of Mind is to be aware. And to be aware
of what? The only thing there is to be aware of&mdash;God.

The Function of Mind is to glorify God by recognizing God in everything
that&rsquo;s being experienced because God is the Only Thing That Is
Happening. Now that&rsquo;s your Function. That&rsquo;s the Function of
Mind.

Ah! But the ego has come up with this incredibly tiny and selfish idea
of mind. It says that, &ldquo;Your mind is right up here in your head.
It&rsquo;s a brain. It&rsquo;s in synapses and electrical currents. And
it&rsquo;s all a matter of reaction and response to physical stimuli
from this physical world.&rdquo; Of course, it&rsquo;s talking about the
Kingdom of Heaven. And it says, &ldquo;It is the function of this mind
to learn, to learn, to gather information.&rdquo; You see? In other
words, it takes this Infinite Presence of Mind Whose Function, Only
Function, is to fully acknowledge God in the Infinite Experience of
Being Consciousness, it takes that and says, &ldquo;Mind is a learning
tool.&rdquo; You see? Diminishing it and twisting it into something that
will occupy this Mind forever in a manner that will absolutely deprive
it of remembering and accessing its Infinite and Real Function.

So let me read this again.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego, which is NOT real, attempts to persuade the mind, which IS
real, that the mind is its own learning device, and that the learning
device is more real than &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Mind itself is. Although it says here:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; that the learning device is more real than IT is.
</div>

You see how it shifts the emphasis?

You know, it&rsquo;s very much like sewing, for those of you who have
used sewing machines. When you&rsquo;re new, you think you are supposed
to watch the needle and where it&rsquo;s penetrating the fabric just so
that you may make straight lines. But once you get a little experience,
you find that where your attention needs to be given is the 5/8ths inch
seam-line marked on the footplate, which is 5/8th of an inch away from
the needle. And if you keep the edge of the fabric on that what?
GUIDEline. You&rsquo;ll have a straight seam.

Inexperience causes you to look in the wrong place, give your attention
to the wrong thing. Experience teaches you where to really look. The ego
distracts you and tells you to put your attention where everything will
keep you in a state of need of constant defense, whereas there&rsquo;s a
Place of Excellence in You, that which is nothing more than your Right
Mind, the Altar, the Holy Spirit. That is where you need to be giving
your attention. And that is where you need to be looking at your garment
from, you might say. That is where you are to be looking at the world
and universe from.

The Guide that you have within you, that is only a Guide because
you&rsquo;ve disowned it temporarily, and it&rsquo;s really your capital
&ldquo;S&rdquo; Self. And you have to choose to give your attention to
your Guide so that you may have a Guideline that will bring you Home
because you&rsquo;re looking in the right Place where the opportunity to
see things Truly resides.

So, again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego, which is NOT real, attempts to persuade the mind, which IS
real, that the mind is its own learning device, and that the learning
device is more real than IT &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Mind &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is. No-one in his right mind could POSSIBLY believe this, and
no-one in his right mind DOES believe it.

Hear, then, the ONE answer of the Holy Spirit to ALL the questions which
the ego raises. You are a Child of God, a priceless part of His Kingdom,
which He &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; God &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; created as part of Him.
</div>

Remember God in the Act of Extension, or Creation, does not extend
outside Himself, so everything that God is creating remains within God
as God, and in that sense is incapable of losing Its Identity.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You are a Child of God, a priceless part of His Kingdom, which He
created as part of Him.
</div>

Now, I&rsquo;m going to put it this way. You are a Child of God right
now, right here, not a Child of God in Reality, not a Child of God in
the sweet bye and bye after you die.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You are a Child of God&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; right now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; a priceless part of His Kingdom &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and I&rsquo;m going to add: Right here &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; which He created as part of Him. Nothing else exists and ONLY
this is real.
</div>

Now what I&rsquo;ve just read is a redefinition of your Conscious
Experience of Being right here and right now. It is not a comment about
the future or a different dimension. Let&rsquo;s be very clear on this
point.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have chosen a sleep in which you have had bad dreams, but the sleep
is not real, and God calls you to awake. There will be nothing left of
your dream when you hear Him because you WILL be awake. Your dreams have
contained many of the ego&rsquo;s symbols, and they have confused you.
Yet that was only because you were asleep AND DID NOT KNOW. When you
awake &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and I&rsquo;m going to add: Which needs to happen in the here
and now, not in the sweet bye and bye.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you awake you will see the truth around you and in you, and you
will no longer believe in dreams because they will have no reality for
you.

Yet the Kingdom and all that you have created there will have great
reality for you because they are beautiful and true.
</div>

And I&rsquo;m going to reiterate and I have not talked about this much.
I&rsquo;m not going to say a lot about it now, but all this time that
you have been preoccupied with misinterpretations of Reality, of the
Kingdom of Heaven, and of your Self, you haven&rsquo;t stopped being the
Christ. And you have managed to extend Love, and every Extension of Love
has constituted a Creation. And therefore, in the Kingdom of Heaven,
your Creations that you have been bringing into existence by virtue of
Love that has managed to be expressed, remain for you to experience once
again because they are Eternal.

You are, every single one of you, from time to time, creating Eternal
Expressions. And I&rsquo;ll tell you something. When those Eternal
Expressions have come into Being, almost always there has been a healing
in the here and now for you, or for a loved one, or for a stranger that
you had a momentary contact with and were undefended enough to truly
care. And in that moment of undefendedness, Love was extended, and that
one was healed. That one&rsquo;s life was transformed, whether you ever
heard about it or not. You see?

What I want to convey to you is that no matter how mortal you think you
are, and no matter how much you think your mind is a learning tool for
getting better, or for creating better defense, you are forever still
being the Only Thing God Is Being right where you are, the Christ That
You Are. And in the Kingdom of Heaven your Extensions of Love abide
Eternally and await your remembrance of them.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In the Kingdom&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; right here and right now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; where you are and what you are is perfectly certain.
</div>

In other words, there&rsquo;s no confusion about it for you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is no doubt there because the first question was never asked.
</div>

What is that question? &ldquo;What am I?&rdquo;

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is no doubt there because the first question was never asked.
</div>

Even the asking of the question was part of the dream, asked by [laugh]
a fantastic or fantasy presence that didn&rsquo;t even exist.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Having finally been wholly answered, IT HAS NEVER BEEN.
{: .omit}

Being &hellip;
</div>

Comma.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; alone lives in the Kingdom, where everything lives in God
without question. The time that was spent on questioning in the dream
has given way to creation and to its eternity.

YOU &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and I&rsquo;m going to add again: Right here, right now
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; are as certain as God because you are as true as He is, but
what was once quite certain in your minds has become only the ABILITY
for certainty.
</div>

In other words, when you chose to go it alone, then everything that you
are became nothing more than a potential for you to become because you
lost the Experience of your Identity.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The introduction of abilities into being was the beginning of
UNcertainty because abilities are potentials, NOT accomplishments. Your
abilities are totally useless in the presence of God&rsquo;s
accomplishments, and also of yours. Accomplishments are results which
HAVE BEEN achieved.
</div>

In other words, accomplishments have nothing to do with a Birthright
which is already yours before you thought to lift a finger.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When they are perfect, abilities are meaningless. It is curious that the
perfect must now be perfected.
</div>

Meaning that you who are the Mind whose Function is to recognize God
everywhere, has been turned into a series of mental processes by which
you can ultimately arrive at a point of perfection.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is curious that the perfect must now be perfected.
</div>

In fact, it&rsquo;s more than curious.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In fact, it is impossible. You must remember, however, that when you put
yourselves in an impossible situation, you believed that the impossible
WAS possible.
</div>

You believed that you actually could do things yourself. Impossible. And
right now, the apparent difficulty of existence lies in the fact that
you&rsquo;re still attempting to do what&rsquo;s impossible. But you are
beginning to hear the answer.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Abilities must be DEVELOPED, or you cannot use them. This is not true of
anything that God created, but it is the kindest solution possible to
what YOU have made. In an impossible situation you can develop your
abilities to the point where they can GET YOU OUT OF IT. You have a
Guide to how to develop them, but you have no COMMANDER except yourself.
</div>

This is important.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have a Guide to how to develop them&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; it&rsquo;s the Holy Spirit. It&rsquo;s me. It&rsquo;s every one
of the awakened Brotherhood who are working with each one of
you&mdash;your Guide, your Guides.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have a Guide to how to develop them, but you have no COMMANDER
except yourself.
</div>

This is the down-to-earth, nitty-gritty, practical aspect of what
we&rsquo;re talking about. It&rsquo;s the part all of you are reluctant
to accept because you would rather have someone else or something else
wave a magic wand and heal you or wake you up. And there ain&rsquo;t no
such creature.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have a Guide to how to develop them&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; abilities &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; but you have no COMMANDER except yourself. This leaves YOU in
charge of the Kingdom, with both a Guide to FIND it and a means to KEEP
it. You have a model to follow who will STRENGTHEN your command, and
never detract from it in any way. You therefore retain the central place
in your perceived enslavement, a fact which ITSELF demonstrates that you
are NOT enslaved.
</div>

In this realization lies your salvation.

&ldquo;Oh, but does this mean you&rsquo;re guilty?&rdquo; Ah. Another
question not to try to answer. No. It means what it says.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You therefore retain the central place in your perceived
enslavement&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; pay attention to that. That&rsquo;s empowering. That&rsquo;s
not a negative. That&rsquo;s a statement of releasing Truth.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You therefore retain the central place &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; as commander &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; in your perceived enslavement, a fact which ITSELF demonstrates
that you are NOT enslaved.

You are in an impossible situation only because you thought it was
possible to be in one. You WOULD be &hellip;
</div>

Now listen to this, &lsquo;cause this is the part none of you wants to
hear.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You WOULD be in an impossible situation if God showed you your
perfection and PROVED to you that you were wrong.
</div>

But that&rsquo;s what all of you want to do. That&rsquo;s what all of
you want. You want God to show you the answer. You want a commander
other than yourself. You want an authority other than yourself. You want
an authority other than your very own conviction that you must bring
every ounce of your energy and commitment to. And until you bring every
ounce of energy and commitment to it yourself for your reason, you
won&rsquo;t be behaving in your True Identity.

Now, if God comes along and be&rsquo;s the Commander and commands you to
recognize the Truth About Yourself, it won&rsquo;t be necessary for you
to bring every ounce of your energy and commitment to claiming your
Divine Birthright. And until you reclaim your Divine Birthright, you
will not have undone the bill of divorcement that you so creatively
brought into play.

Is this clear? Do you understand why God can&rsquo;t relieve you? The
saying is, &ldquo;A mind that&rsquo;s changed against its will, is of
the same opinion still.&rdquo; If God changes your mind for you,
you&rsquo;ll still be of the same opinion.

How many of you have done what someone else said to do because they said
to do it? Or how many of you have told someone else what to do and they
did it, and then subsequently, when having done it brought them in,
let&rsquo;s say, in face to face with principled responsibilities that
accompany such behavior, they felt that much too much was being demanded
of them, and life was becoming hell for them, and they turned around and
blamed you? &ldquo;Well you told me to do it! Now look what&rsquo;s
happened!&rdquo;

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You WOULD be in an impossible situation if God showed you your
perfection and PROVED to you that you were wrong. This would demonstrate
that the perfect &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; were inadequate to bring THEMSELVES to the awareness of their
perfection, and thus side with the belief that those who have everything
need help and are therefore helpless. This the kind of
&ldquo;reasoning&rdquo; which the ego engages in, but God, Who KNOWS
that His creations are perfect, does NOT insult them. This would be as
impossible as the ego&rsquo;s notion that IT has insulted HIM.
</div>

Meaning God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
That is why the Holy Spirit NEVER commands. To command is to assume
INequality, which the Holy Spirit demonstrates does not exist. Fidelity
to premises is a law of mind&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; when the divine Mind (God) Moves, the Movement is always True
and Forever True to the premises that set the Movement into Motion. In
other words, God&rsquo;s Will, God&rsquo;s Nature, God&rsquo;s
Character, is Always Perfectly Embodied in Everything He Does.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Fidelity to premises is a law of mind, and everything God created is
faithful to His laws. Fidelity to other laws is also possible, however,
not because the laws are true, but because YOU MADE THEM. What would be
gained if God proved to you that you have thought insanely? Can God lose
His own certainty? We have frequently stated that what you teach you
ARE. Would you have God teach you that you have sinned? If He confronted
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; What?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the self you made with the truth He created for you, what could
you be but afraid? You would doubt your sanity, which is the one thing
in which you can FIND the sanity He gave you.
</div>

My God. If God showed up in your living room and pointed His finger at
you and said, &ldquo;You have sinned!&rdquo; This is Almighty God making
a pronouncement on you that must be the truth, and therefore must be an
eternal truth. That must be a truth that you would be wise to do nothing
other than accept. After all, it would be unwise to challenge the Word
of God. Now, if you were consistent with the premise, you would be in a
state of eternal damnation because God had said, &ldquo;You have
sinned!&rdquo; No!

When Paul sits down here, he gets out of the way. His ego sense of
himself gets out of the way so what can happen? So that that which
expresses the Truth can come through him, which is me. And what am I
doing? I&rsquo;m being here out of the way as an ego letting the Truth
come through that is God&rsquo;s Will.

Have I ever condemned any of you? Have I ever said you were real
sinners? Have I ever condemned you? Or have I monotonously and
persistently expressed to you the Truth about you, that right now you
are the Sons and Daughters of God, that right now you are the Christ
which you&rsquo;re not letting register with you because you&rsquo;re so
preoccupied with defense? But have I condemned you for that? No.
I&rsquo;ve said, &ldquo;Hey! You have an alternative to looking at
things through your defense. And this alternative is to go within to the
Altar and listen for the Truth from what? The Holy Spirit.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Oh. What? Some other entity called the Holy Spirit? Part of the
Holy Trinity. Something real but not you.&rdquo; No. I said to listen to
the Holy Spirit which is nothing more than what? Your Right Mind! So
that if you listen to your Right Mind, there&rsquo;s only one inevitable
thing that can happen. You will come back into focus as your Self, What
You Divinely Are. Does that convict you and make you guilty of anything?
No. What it does is that it convicts you about something that&rsquo;s
Real About You, which calls for no penalty, but the reversal of all
penalties.

So what I&rsquo;m teaching you, what I am illuminating to you is that
the Truth Is True About You right here and right now in spite of
everything you&rsquo;re thinking. And if you will pay attention to it,
it will do nothing but confirm more and more clearly to you the healing,
transforming Truth About You that will integrate You, Divinely speaking,
once again.

I have never said I can do any of this for you. I&rsquo;ve said you must
take the steps. You must reclaim your Divinity. I leave you in the
position of Commander so that when clarity occurs, you will know that it
is because you have reversed your decision to be independent which had
caused you to become confused. And that awareness keeps your Integrity
intact. Whereas, if the Holy Spirit or God corrected you and authored a
command that you couldn&rsquo;t deny, you would not have that Conscious
Experience of the reintegration of your Integrity. And that therefore,
the new Self Experience that you&rsquo;re having is not only absolutely
Real, it&rsquo;s absolutely consistent with your intent, your intent to
no longer be confused and suffer. And so the whole process is capital
&ldquo;S&rdquo; Self-Affirming, and capital &ldquo;S&rdquo;
Self-congealing, and capital &ldquo;S&rdquo; Self-Substantiating.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God does not teach.
</div>

How many times have you said, or have you heard someone say, &ldquo;Well
God gave me that experience to teach me a lesson.&rdquo; Well, here it
is.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God does not teach. To teach is to imply a lack which God KNOWS is not
there. God is not conflicted. Teaching aims at change, but God created
only the changeless. The separation was &hellip;
</div>

Listen to this &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The separation was not a loss of perfection, but a failure in
communication.
</div>

You hung up on God! [single spontaneous audience laugh] You didn&rsquo;t
lose your Perfection in the process, you just lost the connection. And
you didn&rsquo;t know how to use the Perfection. You didn&rsquo;t know
how to own the Perfection. So now, your Perfection became a potential to
achieve. And you know what? You used your innate Perfection
unconsciously to engage in the quest for gaining Perfection.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
A harsh and strident form of communication arose as the ego&rsquo;s
voice. It could not shatter the peace of God, but it COULD shatter
YOURS.
</div>

And I will say this. It could shatter yours because now that you had
hung up on God, you didn&rsquo;t have the Constant, Conscious Experience
of your Omnipotence, your Inviolability.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God did not blot it out&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your Peace &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; because to eradicate it would be to attack it. Being
questioned, He did not question. He merely gave the Answer. His Answer
is your Teacher.
</div>

Remember the very first sentence of this section.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Remember that the Holy Spirit is the ANSWER, NOT the question.
</div>

The moment you chose to abandon God, to abandon your Divinity and dally
with the ego, at that very moment your Divinity became held in trust
where? The only place it could be, right in the middle of You. The
answer was provided the moment you chose to become unconscious of the
Truth. And it&rsquo;s been held inviolably in trust the whole time.

Now are you the Sons and Daughters of God. And it doth not yet appear
what you shall be. It doesn&rsquo;t matter what you shall be. Now are
you the Sons and Daughters of God. You see?

I know that sometimes you feel as though the things we&rsquo;re
discussing don&rsquo;t have any practical application. Or there are
things on your mind of a practical nature that you would really like to
have the answers to in preference to what I&rsquo;m sharing with you at
the moment. Don&rsquo;t fret about it.

There is a willingness in you to see beyond your present perceptions.
And that willingness coupled with your bringing your attention here and
my being with you expressing the Father&rsquo;s Will is causing movement
and transformation, not because you have been commanded to move and
progress, but because the Expression of Love coupled with your
willingness to abandon your boxes constitutes you yielding. Yielding
your hold to your concepts, and yielding to the influx of that which is
changing your lives and causing you to respond in your day naturally in
new ways.

Trust me. Do you know I love you? I love you.

And I look forward to being with you next week.

You are welcome.

[^1]: T6.4 The Only Answer

