---
title: Feb 15, 2004
ref: "T6.5 'To Have, Give All to All'"
alink: "/acim/text/06/chap0605/"
---

Good afternoon. And welcome to everyone who is joining us on the
internet as well.

I want to backtrack a little bit. You&rsquo;ve heard me say that,
&ldquo;You are not God, but God is all there is of you truly.&rdquo; And
as we have been moving through the Course, it&rsquo;s become obvious
that the first legitimate step one takes in the process of his awakening
occurs when you arrive at an impasse and you don&rsquo;t know what the
heck to do, and yet there is a demand for something to be done. And all
of the resources you thought you had are not answering the need. And you
finally reach out beyond your memory, your past experiences, your best
theories, and you say &ldquo;Help.&rdquo;

Now, in the terminology of the Course, this is a matter of turning
toward the Altar which is right in the middle of you. It&rsquo;s the way
you let something else in. And I&rsquo;ve identified the Altar as the
Holy Spirit which we&rsquo;ve learned is nothing more than your Right
Mind. The Holy Spirit is your capacity to see things God&rsquo;s Way.
That&rsquo;s the simplest way it can be put.

But remember that the action involved in turning to the Holy Spirit,
turning to the Altar, is one of abandoning your best judgments, your
best theories, your strongest beliefs, all the definitions you&rsquo;ve
given to everything. It is experienced as the abandonment of the
&ldquo;I&rdquo; that you have thought you were, the self-sufficient
&ldquo;I&rdquo; that you thought you were, or the self-sufficient
&ldquo;I&rdquo; that you thought you ought to be able to be. It&rsquo;s
a matter of abandoning that and yielding to what you find yourself
knowing when you&rsquo;ve turned to the Holy Spirit, opened the door and
invited It in. When you do this, you are abandoning the question,
&ldquo;What am I?&rdquo; The concern you feel about needing to know what
you are is left behind.

And if you persist in giving your attention to the Holy Spirit, that
which is nothing more than your Right Mind, you will ultimately never
return to that place of independence that you thought was your normal
state. You will not turn to the Holy Spirit, learn of It, and then
abandon It and come back and apply in your independent life, and as an
independent entity, what you have learned. If you are persistent in
yielding into the Holy Spirit, you might say that the Holy Spirit, your
Right Mind, will subsume and consume you, and the experience of it will
be the Experience of your Identity.

It&rsquo;s very important to understand that you don&rsquo;t lean into
the Truth, you don&rsquo;t lean into God&rsquo;s Perspective, so that
you might leave God&rsquo;s Presence and practice God&rsquo;s
Perspective independently. This has nothing to do with learning how to
be independent more effectively. It has to do with abandoning the
imagined state of independence entirely.

I said, &ldquo;You are not God, but God is all there is of you.&rdquo; I
could equally say, &ldquo;You are not the Holy Spirit, but the Holy
Spirit is all there is of you.&rdquo; I use these words so that you
might be very clear about the fact that waking up involves an actual
shift of emphasis, an actual shift of focus that causes you to begin to
be in what is to you an entirely new way of being.

The tendency, the slippery, confusing, unloving goal of the ego causes
you to say, &ldquo;Well, if God is all there is to me, I must be
God.&rdquo; But this &ldquo;I&rdquo; is still the same &ldquo;I&rdquo;
that you&rsquo;ve been defining yourself as up until this moment. And if
you leave it at that, &ldquo;Well, God is all there is of me, so
therefore I am God,&rdquo; you will simply attempt to be independent
more powerfully, with more arrogance, and you&rsquo;ll still be in the
middle of your dream. You&rsquo;ll define things more vehemently. You
will determine how things are supposed to be with more force, and you
will inflict your definitions on everyone else with a greater sense of
authority. And you will have missed the point, and you will have missed
the opportunity to make a shift. And God&rsquo;s Perspective will still
be unavailable to you.

You know what? The key words for you to use as the premise for every
single moment of Conscious Experience you&rsquo;re having are,
&ldquo;Thy Will be done.&rdquo; If this doesn&rsquo;t remain in the
foreground of your awareness, you will easily slip back into the
well-established habit of, &ldquo;my will be done.&rdquo; And this
&ldquo;me,&rdquo; whose will is to be done, will be the same old you
that you have been dallying with, we&rsquo;ll say, forever, although
that&rsquo;s not absolutely true.

You want to get out of the rut! You want to skip the track! The point is
to no longer have this repetitive experience, a struggle, a constantly
reaching for fulfillment and never reaching it.

Every moment is your opportunity to say, &ldquo;Father, what would You
have me see instead of this? What would You have me see instead of what
I&rsquo;m seeing? What do You see here that it is my Birthright to be
seeing and experiencing without any distortions, without any biases
being applied to it? What is Your Perspective?&rdquo;

Because God is all there is of you, it is your Birthright to be
experiencing His Perspective. And so you must request It. You must ask
for It to be given to you. And you must abandon your insistence upon
seeing it your way. So I&rsquo;m going to put it this way. For the next
couple of hours, or for the next couple of weeks, or for the next couple
of years, or I&rsquo;m going to say, for the next couple of centuries or
lifetimes, you cannot afford to think that you have any other option in
front of you than yielding to the Father, constantly saying, &ldquo;Not
my will be done, but Thine be done. What is Your Will?&rdquo;
You&rsquo;re not going to have to just do this for a couple of weeks and
then you&rsquo;ll get it, and then you&rsquo;ll be able to take hold of
things from a proper perspective. We&rsquo;re talking about making a
shift back into your Right Mind and staying there forever because
that&rsquo;s your Sanity.

Again, your Sanity isn&rsquo;t something that once you&rsquo;ve gotten
it back, you can employ to be better in an independent mode, which is
insanity.

The experience of joining with the Father by saying, &ldquo;Thy Will,
not mine, be done. I yield to Your Will. I yield to Your Perspective.
And I yield to it unequivocally forever.&rdquo;, that will move you into
a brand new Conscious Experience of Being, a brand new Conscious
Experience of Everything you&rsquo;ve already been conscious of, plus
infinitely more. And that experience will be the definition of you. You
will Know What You Are. You will Know WHAT You Are. You will not Know
What YOU are. Do you see what the difference in the emphasis is?

You will Know that You Are the Conscious Experience Of Creation,of All
of Creation. You are the Conscious Experience of It, the recognizer of
It, which is the recognizer of the Presence of God in every Infinite
Aspect of His Being, meaning that All of Creation will be disclosed to
you and embraced by you, including the Aspects of Creation that
you&rsquo;re experiencing right here and right now.

So this is not an escape from what you&rsquo;re experiencing. It&rsquo;s
an escape from the lens through which you are looking at what
you&rsquo;re experiencing. The lens of isolated independence, isolated
authoritative independence.

So to put it simply, at this point in your so-called journey of
awakening, you must simply accept the fact that your task is to
constantly yield to the Father&rsquo;s Perspective, is to constantly
reach into that Place of Excellence in You, and yield to It, which you
will not experience as an experience of what you are. You will
experience it as though you&rsquo;re yielding into something you
don&rsquo;t recognize as you. What you&rsquo;re doing is, you&rsquo;re
yielding into the Harmony of God&rsquo;s Presence. God has to be more
important to you than the question, &ldquo;What am I?&rdquo; So for all
practical purposes, what I&rsquo;m saying is, count on it that you will
never have any other option available to you than yielding into that
which you don&rsquo;t recognize as you yet.

And do not assume that doing this will help you find out who you are and
what you are as an independent entity who, because of the investigation
of Truth, will be able to be independent more efficiently and more
successfully. You will not be returning to the &ldquo;I&rdquo; that you
think you are right now.

Whether you like what I&rsquo;ve said or not, do you understand what
I&rsquo;ve said? Is anybody confused about it still? Okay.

What better thing do you have to do than explore the potential that
I&rsquo;ve described of leaning into God? Remember that you&rsquo;ve
been trying the alternative. You&rsquo;ve imagined that you had an
option, and you&rsquo;ve been exercising that option, and the result has
not been bliss. The result has not been uninterrupted harmony. The
result has not been the permanent absence of suffering, of sickness, of
death. So if what you have been doing has involved all of those things
that I&rsquo;ve just mentioned, why would you give preference to
continuing what will continue that experience?

You do not have something better to do than to explore yielding into
that Place of Excellence in You that I&rsquo;ve told you that you have,
and which I guarantee you that if you will lean into, you will find will
illuminate you and illumine your mind, and provide you with clarity that
allows you to behave in a new way, because the basis for your
actionswill not be coming from your memory, your conditioned thinking,
your habits, your ruts. You deserve more than you&rsquo;re experiencing,
because your Birthright is far greater than what you are experiencing.
Because What You Are is far greater than the definition you&rsquo;ve
given yourselves. And anyone who will begin to explore this will find
within themselves confirmation of the Truth of what I&rsquo;m saying.

Okay. Let&rsquo;s go to the book.

This next section is entitled:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I. *&ldquo;To Have, Give All to All&rdquo;* [^1]

Like any good teacher, the Holy Spirit does know more than you do NOW,
but He teaches only to make you EQUAL with Him.
</div>

In a way that&rsquo;s what I&rsquo;ve been describing so far today. It
will be wise for you just to assume that the Holy Spirit will always
know more than you, and therefore there will be no reason for you ever
to stop learning from the Holy Spirit. There will be no reason for you
to withdraw your attention from what the Holy Spirit has to share with
you, or with what your Right Mind has to disclose to you about Who You
Are.

As you persistently let the Holy Spirit define you by giving you the
Experience of Truth, you will find the Holy Spirit occupying more and
more of your Conscious Awareness until this puny little false sense of
yourself that invited the Holy Spirit in becomes so much less
predominant in the face of the increasing Presence of the Holy
Spirit&rsquo;s Perspective in You, that you begin to forget the
question, &ldquo;What am I as an independent entity?&rdquo; It will
diminish until you begin to forget to think that what you&rsquo;re
learning is something to bring back into the independent state you
started out from so that you can be independent more effectively.

And when the last little bit of willfulness, the last little right to
independence that you&rsquo;ve been holding on to goes up in a wisp of
smoke, all there will be to you is the Holy Spirit Whose Function is to
serve God by glorifying God, by acknowledging God in every Aspect of the
Experience of Being Conscious.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Like any good teacher, the Holy Spirit does know more than you do NOW,
but He teaches only to make you EQUAL with Him. This is because you had
already taught wrongly, having believed what was not true. YOU DID NOT
BELIEVE IN YOUR OWN PERFECTION.
</div>

Now here&rsquo;s an interesting question.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Could God teach you that you had made a split mind, when He knows your
mind only as whole? What God DOES know is that His communication
channels are not open to Him, so that He cannot impart His joy, and know
that His Children are wholly joyous. This is an ongoing process, not in
time, but in eternity.
</div>

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What God DOES know is that His communication channels are not open to
Him&hellip;
</div>

It&rsquo;s sort of like God recognizing that you haven&rsquo;t called
Him for a while, so there&rsquo;s no opportunity to chat, there&rsquo;s
no opportunity to be in communion. Why? Because you&rsquo;re so
preoccupied with this challenging and wonderful experience of being
independent, and doing things your way, and defining things the way you
want to define them, and enjoying the challenge of overcoming the
difficulties you have in this state of mind, not realizing that
you&rsquo;re having the difficulties because [laugh] you are functioning
at odds with your Being.

God&rsquo;s Function is to impart His Joy. It&rsquo;s actually to
extend All Of What He Is and know that His Children are wholly joyous,
are experiencing What He Is Extending fully. This is an ongoing process.
It never ceases, not in time, but in Eternity.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God&rsquo;s extending outward, though not His completeness, is blocked
when the Sonship does not communicate with Him as one.
</div>

In other words, HisCompleteness can&rsquo;t be blocked, but the
Extension outward, the Experience of His Extension outward is blocked
when you, the Sonship,does not communicate with Him as One.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
So He thought&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; God thought &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip;&rdquo;My Children sleep, and must be awakened.&rdquo;

How can you wake children better and more kindly than by a gentle Voice
that will not frighten them, but will merely remind them that the night
is over and the Light has come? You do not inform them that the
nightmares which frightened them so badly were not real because children
BELIEVE in magic. You merely reassure them that they are safe NOW. Then
you train them to RECOGNIZE THE DIFFERENCE between sleeping and waking,
so that they will understand they need not be afraid of dreams. Then,
when bad dreams come, they will call on the light THEMSELVES to dispel
them.
</div>

That&rsquo;s the Function of the Holy Spirit. That&rsquo;s the Function
of your Right Mind. It is the Presence of Love. And so, as Love, it
addresses you in your dream lovingly. Not in a way that causes more
fear. Not in a way that causes you to feel more guilty. But in a gentle,
inviting way, which by its very nature communicates the experience of
safety, the experience of kindness that doesn&rsquo;t have to be
defended against. This is the Nature of your Being.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
A wise teacher teaches through approach, NOT avoidance. He does NOT
emphasize what you must avoid to escape from harm so much as what you
need to learn to have joy.
</div>

He does not emphasizewhat you must avoid to escape from harm, so much
as what you need to learn to have joy. You see a different emphasis?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is true even of the world&rsquo;s teachers. Consider the confusion
a child would experience if he were told, &ldquo;Do not do THIS because
it might hurt you and make you unsafe, but if you do THAT you will
escape from harm and be safe, and then you will not be afraid.&rdquo;
All of this could be included in only three words: &ldquo;Do ONLY
that!&rdquo;
</div>

You see? If you&rsquo;re giving directions, you don&rsquo;t say,
&ldquo;Now, don&rsquo;t go to the left, becauseif you go to the left,
this will happen and that will happen and the other thing will happen,
and you will be really sorry!&rdquo; All you have to say is, &ldquo;Go
to the right.&rdquo; You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip;&ldquo;Do ONLY that!&rdquo; This simple statement is perfectly
clear, easily understood, and very easily remembered.

The Holy Spirit NEVER itemizes errors because He does not frighten
children, and those who lack wisdom &hellip;
</div>

And I will say: or Experience of What Is True.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; ARE children. Yet He ALWAYS answers their call, and His
dependability makes THEM more certain.
</div>

Now what does this mean in practical terms? It means that when you turn
to the Altar within you, and when you invite the Consciousness of Truth
to be revealed to you by the Holy Spirit, the very manner in which that
provision is made, the very tone of it not only illuminates Truth, but
conveysto you the wisdom of your making the request, and the fact that
in making the request and receiving the answer, it doesn&rsquo;t punish
you. It doesn&rsquo;t uncover guilt in you. It is done in a way that is
perfectly comfortable, kind. And this increases your confidence in
reaching out to the Holy Spirit. Everything about the experience is
confirming of the wisdom of what you&rsquo;ve done and the safety you
can count on in the process of the provision being made.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Children DO confuse fantasy and reality, and they ARE frightened because
they do not know the difference. The Holy Spirit makes NO distinction
among dreams. He merely shines them away. His Light is ALWAYS the call
to awake, whatever you have been dreaming. Nothing lasting lies in
dreams, and the Holy Spirit, shining with the Light from God Himself,
speaks only for what lasts forever.
</div>

What does? The Holy Spirit, your right Mind, shining with the Light from
God Himself, speaks only for what lasts forever. You see?

Why would you not choose to yield into that forever, and never once
think about gathering the Truth so that you might stop leaning into
that, and come back and be a better, more effective, more successful,
independent authoritative entity?

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When your body and your ego and your dreams are gone, you will know that
YOU will last forever.
</div>

When your identification with body,and your identification with your
ego, and your identification with your dreams are gone, you will know
that You will last forever.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Many think this is accomplished through death, but NOTHING is
accomplished through death because death IS nothing.
</div>

It&rsquo;s part of the fantasy, part of the strange imaginings.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
EVERYTHING is accomplished through life, and life is of the mind and IN
the Mind.
</div>

Remember what we were talking about last week. That this piece of paper
[rustling it] that I can hear, and that I can feel, and that I can see,
is not out somewhere in front of me in space, but space and paper and
sound and feel and appearance are allmental experiences. They are all
going on in Conscious Awareness as Ideas being Experienced.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
EVERYTHING is accomplished through life, and life is of the mind and IN
the Mind. The body neither lives nor dies because it cannot contain you
who ARE life.
</div>

And I will add that: Because You Are Life, then your body cannot live or
die; it can only identify your Presence, just as All of Creation
identifies the Presence of God.

Remember, &ldquo;You are not God, but God is all there is of You.&rdquo;
The tree is not God, but God is all there is of the tree.

When you abandon your obsession with awareness of body, you will be able
to &hellip; you will be available to the experience of yourself as Mind
in which body &hellip; the experience of body is occurring. And then you
will not be able to do anything to the body, and the body will not be
able to do anything to you. You will simply be observing everything
without an obsessive identification with any one thing you&rsquo;re
experiencing. When you&rsquo;re obsessed with effect, your mind is not
available to experience the Cause. But when your Mind is available to
experience the Cause, Effect is seen in its proper perspective.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If we &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you and I &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; share the same mind, you can overcome death BECAUSE I DID.
Death is an attempt to resolve conflict by not willing at all. Like any
other impossible solution which the ego attempts, IT WILL NOT WORK.

God did not make the body because it is destructible, and therefore not
of the Kingdom.
</div>

I must make this clear. God did not make the body as you are presently
perceiving it, because the way you are presently perceiving it is as
something destructible, and therefore not of the Kingdom. The body, in
other words, the body we&rsquo;re talking about here is the symbol of
what you think you are. You see, throughout the Course, the distinction
is consistently made clear. The body that is being talked about that God
did not make is not the Visibility and Tangibility of an Idea of God; it
is the symbol of what you think you are. And you think you&rsquo;re
independent. And you think you are an authorizer. And you think you are
alone. And you think you are vulnerable. And you think that you have to
&hellip; that engaging in life is engaging in defense.

And from this crazy perspective, you look at the Visibility and
Tangibility of your Divine Individuality which is God Presencing Himself
right where you are, and you define the body as a means of defense, as
your shield, as the vessel which contains your will, and therefore gives
this presence of an imagined identity substance and force, so that it
becomes the means of inflicting your independent will upon your others
and your world, so as to what? Secure your safety.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The body is the symbol of what you THINK you are.
{: .omit}
</div>

That is the symbol of what you think you are, and that&rsquo;s the body
that&rsquo;s being discussed here as not having been made by God because
it&rsquo;s destructible.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; this symbol of what you think you are called the body.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is clearly a separation device, and therefore does not exist.
</div>

This concept of body, thissymbol of what you think you are, does not
exist any more than the identity that you have defined for yourself
separate and apart from What God Has Expressed of Himself right where
you are that constitutes You which is Eternal.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit, as always, takes what you have made &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; this symbol of what you think you are &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and translates it into a learning device FOR you.
</div>

I want you to remember that I said before that when you take any part of
Creation, any part of God&rsquo;s Omnipresencing of Himself, of
rendering Himself experienceable, when you take any part of it and apply
a definition to it, and commit yourself to your definition of it, you
block the Experience of What That Thing Really Is. And What That Thing
Really Is, because it will not function according to the definitions you
gave it, will cause you to have experiences that challenge your
definition of it. And therefore, the definition of it that you&rsquo;re
looking at becomes a learning tool, or we could say, What It Really Is
becomes a learning device for you to bring you back into the Conscious
Awareness of What It Truly Is. What It Truly Is will not conform to your
definition, and therefore will be eternally, or at least for as long as
you&rsquo;re trying to hold on to the definition, a trigger to a revised
and more correct perception.

Whatever of God you are denying will become for you a learning tool. Not
because that&rsquo;s What It Is, but because that&rsquo;s what
you&rsquo;re denial of it causes it to be experienced as by you.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit, as always, takes what you have made &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; takes what you have made-up &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and translates it into a learning device FOR you. Again as
always, He reinterprets what the ego uses as an argument FOR separation
into a demonstration AGAINST it. If the mind can heal the body but the
body cannot heal the mind, then the mind must be STRONGER. Every miracle
demonstrates this.

We have said that the Holy Spirit &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that which is nothing more than your right Mind &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is the MOTIVATION for miracles.
</div>

And we could say, the impulse for miracles.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is because He &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; always tells you that ONLY the mind is real since ONLY the mind
CAN BE SHARED. The body &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the symbol of what you think you are &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; IS separate, and therefore CANNOT be part of you. To be of one
mind IS meaningful, but to be of one BODY is meaningless. By the laws of
mind, then, the BODY is meaningless. To the Holy Spirit THERE IS NO
ORDER OF DIFFICULTY IN MIRACLES. This is FAMILIAR enough to you by now,
but it has not yet become believable. Therefore, you do not understand
it and cannot USE it.
</div>

I want you to realize that when you identify yourself as a body, when
you apply this strange definition to the Visibility and Tangibility of
your Individuality, you find accompanying that definition a plethora of
sub-concepts, an unending list of justifications for the definition. And
so as you apprehend, perceive, this body that is the symbol of what you
think you are, your mind is far from single. It&rsquo;s full of clutter.
It is not pure, without anything extraneous to it. It is infinitely
populated with justifications for defense, justification for the way you
see things, justification for exercising authority, and on and on and
on.

What you find when you turn toward the Altar and you invite the Holy
Spirit in, is that the clutter dissolves and you become Single of Mind.
And when you become Single of Mind, you experience Clarity. And you want
to know something? You &hellip; this Clarity is Infinite. It seems to
you that when you meditate and your mind becomes still, that your
attention has been narrowed down to nothing. Right? Nothing is occupying
your mind. But in valuing the silence and being willing to abide in the
silence, you find Knowing beginning to be felt. Not thought, but felt.
And you have the opportunity to find that this silence is Peace that is
humungous, that is Infinite.

And if you will continue to insist upon abiding in that Peace, you will
find that Peace to be the context for the Infinite Experience of
Creation in which none of Creation is outside of you. And it will alter
your direct experience of everything that is immediately in front of
you. The petal on the flower. The branch on the tree. The glass on the
table.

It is as though it&rsquo;s a paradox. When you abandon the clutter of
the ego, and it seems as though your attention has become very narrow
and focused on nothing, you are standing at the Threshold ofthe
Conscious Experience of Peace that is the Context of the Infinite
Experience of Creation Itself, the Infinite Self-Expression of God. That
is what Singleness of Mind means.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
We have too much to accomplish on behalf of the Kingdom to let this
crucial concept slip away.
</div>

What crucial concept? That there is no order of difficulty in miracles.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is a real foundation stone of the thought system I teach and want YOU
to teach. You cannot perform miracles without believing it because it is
a belief in perfect equality. Only one equal gift CAN be offered to the
equal Sons of God, and that is FULL APPRECIATION.
</div>

Full appreciation is appreciation without anything extraneous to it
present. It&rsquo;s indivisible appreciation. It is singleness of mind,
singleness of intent.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Only one equal gift CAN be offered to the equal Sons of God, and that is
FULL APPRECIATION. Nothing more and nothing less. Without a range an
order of difficulty IS meaningless, and there must BE no range in what
you offer to each other.
</div>

Well, the only way you could have a range from difficult to easy, the
only way you could have a range of anything to extend to your Brother is
if you introduce something more than Peace into the picture. You see?
It&rsquo;s only if you find a way to add something more than Indivisible
Unity to the picture. Well, that&rsquo;s the problem of being
you&rsquo;re already experiencing, right? [laughing]

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your right Mind who what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; Who leads to God, translates communication into being, just as
He ultimately translates perception into knowledge.
</div>

Communication seems to be made of up many things. Being is Pure, Single.
Perception is made up of many perceptions, but it gets translatedinto
Knowledge, or what I&rsquo;ve referred to as Knowing with a capital
&ldquo;K&rdquo;. And that&rsquo;s Single, uncluttered with anything
extraneous to the Conscious Experience of What God Is Being.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego uses the body for attack, for pleasure, and for pride. The
insanity of this perception makes it a fearful one indeed. The Holy
Spirit sees the body ONLY as a means of COMMUNICATION, and because
communicating is sharing, it becomes communion.
</div>

Again, a Singleness. A Oneness.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You might argue that fear as well as love can be communicated, and
therefore can be shared.
</div>

It does sound reasonable, doesn&rsquo;t it?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet this is not so real as it sounds. Those who communicate fear
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and here&rsquo;s the point.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Those who communicate fear are promoting attack and attack always BREAKS
communication, making it impossible.

Egos DO join together in temporary allegiance&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; mutually-agreed-upon definitions &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; but always for WHAT EACH ONE CAN GET SEPARATELY. The Holy
Spirit communicates only WHAT EACH ONE CAN GIVE TO ALL.
</div>

The Holy Spirit teaches only that which embodies Unity.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He never takes anything back because He wants YOU to keep it.
</div>

Who&rsquo;s this &ldquo;He&rdquo;? The Holy Spirit. What is the Holy
Spirit? Nothing more than your right Mind. Why would your right Mind
want you to keep what It has to give? Because it&rsquo;s your
Birthright. Because it is something that you must be experiencing.
Because that&rsquo;s the Experience that God impulsed into Manifestation
of Himself right where you are.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Therefore, His teaching &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s teaching &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; begins with the lesson:

&ldquo;To HAVE, GIVE all TO all.&rdquo;
</div>

&ldquo;Ohh! But if you don&rsquo;t have all, how can you give all to
all?&rdquo; Remember, all has nothing to do with quantity. All has to do
with Indivisibility.

The moment you manage to silence the thinking in your mind, and it seems
to you as though your awareness has been narrowed down to not being
conscious of anything, you have moved into a Singular Experience, the
Singular Experience of Peace. And until you&rsquo;ve done that for the
very first time, you&rsquo;re unaware that your Peace is available to
you without your having to govern your environment and get everyone
around you to behave in a non-threatening way.

Up until that moment, you have believed that the only way you can get
Peace is if you can control your environment, and those around you, into
behaving in a way that is non-threatening so you can dare to relax. And
your Peace has depended on not only what everyone else is doing, but
your capacity to control them.

But the first time you meditate and you experience the absence of
thoughts, and you experience the absence of fear, and you experience
Peace that has nothing to do with anything other than where you have
brought your attention to, you have taken the first step out of the need
for defense. You have taken the first step out of a conviction that you
have lived with that you must control everything. Why? Because you have
brought your mind into a singular experience &hellip; no &hellip; you
have brought your attention into a singular experience, and this
singular experience of Peace is the ground of Conscious
Awareness&mdash;Mind.

How do you give All to All? By giving a Singular Gift. Because in the
Singularity of It, in the Purity of It, All awaits you and everyone
else. The All that you can give away, the All that you are able to
extend is that which has nothing extraneous to it in it. Peace is not
the only Singular Experience. Joy emerges out of Peace. Love emerges out
of Peace. Love is a Singularity. Joy is a Singularity.

So, the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s teaching begins with the lesson: To have,
give All to All. Value the Singular Experience enough to have it. And
then be with everyone and everything else from there so that everything
you do embodies that Singularity. That&rsquo;s the first lesson of the
Holy Spirit.

And then,[whispered] be careful, because you don&rsquo;t want to say,
like Joan of Arcadia, [very amused voice] &ldquo;I&rsquo;m getting it!
I&rsquo;m getting it!Now I know how to do it without having to listen
again.&rdquo; You see?

Being is Beautiful. Everything about Existence is Pure Artistry.
Everything about the process of awakening, of you coming back into your
Right Mind, is exquisitely orchestrated, if I may put it that way. And
every step of the way is a step to enjoy because of the manner in which
it uncovers your innate Integrity, replacing the sense of yourself that
feels that it doesn&rsquo;t have any integrity and that it must create
it. And it must create it by fooling everyone around it into believing
that it has integrity, and getting their confirmation to confirm it, and
on and on and on.

There is only ugliness in the ignorance of Truth. But the emergence from
Truth is as exquisitely Beautiful and Artistic as Creation Itself. Open
your eyes.

I love you all. And I look forward to being with you next week. And
again, I want you to look forward to my being with you all week. I hope
you will be asking of Me, or the Holy Spirit, &ldquo;What is the
Father&rsquo;s Perspective here?&rdquo;

Remember, my Function is the same as the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s. Each of
your Guides has the same Function I have, and that the Holy Spirit has
to gently, lovingly, and supportively nudge you with an experience of
safety into a more Singular Awareness, one uncluttered by irrelevant
static and crap.

Okay.

[^1]: T6.5 'To Have, Give All to All'

