---
title: Feb 22, 2004
ref: "T6.5 'To Have, Give All to All'"
alink: "/acim/text/06/chap0605/"
---

Good afternoon. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
internet as well.

For those who are listening for the first time, you may notice
differences from time to time between what I&rsquo;m reading and
what&rsquo;s in the first and second editions of the Course, and
that&rsquo;s because I&rsquo;m reading from the transcript as completed
by Bill Thetford.

Last week we ended with the statement that the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s
teaching begins with the lesson: To have, give all to all. And there was
a particularly significant point brought out in regard to this, and that
is it doesn&rsquo;t mean to give all, every thing, every little thing,
every bit of the multitudinous things that you have. It means to give a
Singularity. You remember? The simplest form of Singularity, of
Indivisibility, that you can extend to a Brother is Peace.

And I&rsquo;ll tell you that you don&rsquo;t begin to have anything to
share with your Brother until you have moved into your Peace. Prior to
that, you&rsquo;re in a constant state of self-preservation, because
you&rsquo;re not joined in any way with the Excellence in you, with the
Altar within you, with the Holy Spirit, and therefore the Father. And so
all you end up sharing from your state of independence is fear and
self-protection and manipulation, all in the name of orchestrating some
form of peace between yourself and your Brothers.

But that&rsquo;s an orchestrated peace; one where everyone has been
badgered into behaving quietly. And ultimately if you manage to get
everybody to behave quietly, it&rsquo;s because you&rsquo;ve raised
enough fear in them to cause them to recognize that it&rsquo;s in their
best interest for them to be still, so they&rsquo;re doing it for
themselves. It might look like agreement. It might look like
cooperation, but it&rsquo;s still a bunch of little independent egos
serving their own purposes for their own reasons, and not because
there&rsquo;s been any communication, or any connection, or any real
unity. You see? And that&rsquo;s because the gift you&rsquo;re giving
isn&rsquo;t a Singularity. It&rsquo;s a gift of what the ego calls
beneficent force, beneficent power, exercised on behalf of the good of
everyone. But as long as there isn&rsquo;t any unity, any real
connection between everyone, you don&rsquo;t have Peace. You have a
stalemate. And it&rsquo;s still a state of conflict, but one
that&rsquo;s kept down to a dull roar.

It&rsquo;s really important to understand that the first step in
establishing connection between each other is for you each individually
to go within, meditate, become still through whatever means you have
available to you so that you might quiet the thinking busyness of your
calculating mind, and come into the Silence where in the absence of the
busyness of your thinking, it becomes possible for you to become aware
of and experience Peace that has been there all along because, for lack
of better words, it was placed there since the beginning by God as the
Ground of your Being.

In this Peace, there is not the clutter of thoughts and concepts and
mutually-agreed-upon definitions. And as I said, it seems to you in that
experience that your focus has been narrowed down from the multiplicity
of things that you&rsquo;ve given your attention to, to silence or
nothing. And it seems to you to be like an infinitesimal spotlight that
is excluding everything. And yet, where you are when you&rsquo;re
attention is given there is at the threshold of experiencing your
Wholeness because Peace is Infinite. The Fundamental Ground of your
Being, which is Peace, is Infinite. Nothing else is present but it. And
when you access it and you allow yourself to abide in it, what are you
doing? You are embodying it.

There is no private experience of Peace. It&rsquo;s an all-inclusive,
Infinite Presence of Pure Integrity, Pure Being. And when you choose to
give your attention to it and make commitment to being with it, you are
being Peace. More properly, you are allowing the Peace of your Being to
be all there is to you. You are letting what God set in place be all
there is to you. And because you&rsquo;re always teaching whether you
are awake or dreaming dreams, because you are always teaching, you are
now teaching Peace.

Whether it&rsquo;s for thirty seconds that it lasts, or whether
it&rsquo;s for thirty minutes, or a fraction of a second, you are
teaching Peace. And the key is that here you are teaching by being. Not
teaching by thinking. Not teaching by expressing precepts. Not teaching
by in an orderly fashion expressing precept upon precept upon precept
until everyone gets it. You are teaching by being. And I&rsquo;m going
to tell you something else. All real healing that occurs is a result of
being, is a result of your being. So you teach by being and you heal by
being. You teach and heal by being nothing other than the Presence of
Peace that is the Ground of your Being.

Learning has half a chance of occurring when you&rsquo;re teaching by
being. When you&rsquo;re teaching by intellectual means, precept upon
precept, learning is not what occurs. What occurs is others deciding
that in their best interests they had better agree with you. And so
although their mind hasn&rsquo;t changed, their behavior has for the
sake of self-preservation. And that&rsquo;s what most of you call
&ldquo;learning.&rdquo;

You can imagine being in the presence of an enlightened being,
we&rsquo;ll say, one who is not fazed by anything that happens. One who
it is obvious is in Perfect Peace whether he&rsquo;s talking, or whether
he&rsquo;s moving around, or whether he&rsquo;s engaged in a chore.
Everything about him exudes Peace, and you feel it and you learn of
Peace. And yet this one has not uttered a word about What Peace Is, or
shared any concepts about What Peace Is, or expressed a koan that
triggers an Awareness of Peace. His Presence teaches Peace. He teaches
Peace by being. Now, this is what all of this is about.

We&rsquo;ve been going through the Course for a year and a half. And
we&rsquo;ve talked a lot about precepts and ideas and thoughts, and so
on. But what these ideas and thoughts are all about is each of you
embodying something new, something different from what you have in the
past. It&rsquo;s about being in a new way, not thinking in a new way.

Thinking which is based upon Truth can lead you to the point of feeling
safe enough to let go of your thoughts and yield into your Peace. And
that is the purpose that ideas and thoughts serve. At this point,
that&rsquo;s their real and only use.

Now we&rsquo;re beginning to get into the implementation of the ideas
we&rsquo;ve been talking about. We&rsquo;re talking about making a shift
in the way you approach life and in the way that you be quote &ldquo;in
the world&rdquo; unquote. And obviously what I&rsquo;m talking about is
not at all typical of life as you have known it, or as the majority of
those on your planet are aware of it. So what does that mean? It means
that in a way you&rsquo;re being pioneers, and you&rsquo;re getting off
the beaten track. You&rsquo;re leaving the well-established trails.

And what will the result of that be? Well you&rsquo;ll have new things
to share, won&rsquo;t you? Will you have new things to share that you
can use to force the world to change? You&rsquo;d better be careful
about that. You better be careful of thinking about becoming teachers of
the new point of view. But you know what? When you choose for your Peace
and are willing to be from there, this won&rsquo;t shock people. It may
make them pay attention. But Peace isn&rsquo;t offensive. Try to cram
peace down somebody&rsquo;s throat, they&rsquo;re likely to be offended,
but also you will have had to leave your Peace in order to do that. It
doesn&rsquo;t occur to you to do that when you&rsquo;re in your Peace.

When you are experiencing something which is Singular, and therefore
Whole, there is nothing else which you can practice that experience on.
But like the Light, darkness will disappear in Its Presence. Conflict
will disappear in the Presence of the Peace that you are being, because
your presence will be a demonstration to others that there&rsquo;s a
different way of looking at things than the way they&rsquo;re looking at
it because what they&rsquo;re looking at is causing them not to be in
their Peace and to be defended, and here you are in your Peace
unaffected by what is going on and at the same time not being rendered
dysfunctional. And you&rsquo;re able to be in a way that doesn&rsquo;t
aggravate the conflict.

Now, here&rsquo;s the thing. This is not the way you&rsquo;re used to
being and it&rsquo;s not the way anyone else is used to being, and
therefore you will find yourself in a situation where you&rsquo;re
having to be at odds with your well-established habits, as well as being
at odds with what everyone else expects of you. And so there is going to
be great temptation to slip back into your old habits. But you must
remember there is a reason you&rsquo;re doing this. And it has nothing
to do with teaching anybody anything. And it has nothing to do with
transforming and changing and blessing the world, even though that will
happen.

At the bottom line, it has to do with your no longer having a suffering
experience of existence because you&rsquo;re choosing not to &hellip;
you are choosing to no longer use your minds to create a suffering
experience by constantly being at odds with your very own Being.
It&rsquo;s about you coming back into your Sanity which is a
Singularity, not an infinitely confusing hodgepodge of disconnected and
inconsistent ideas and precepts and concepts and images that you try to
hold together in some semblance of order.

If not one other person is doing this, in other words, if everyone else
is not doing this, it is no reason or justification for you not to
persist in coming into a Singular, Conscious Experience of Being which
is your Birthright to be experiencing, because it was set in place quote
&ldquo;in the beginning&rdquo; unquote by the Father as the very, for
lack of better words, structural Integrity of your Being. And it was set
into place that way because it is the Embodiment of What The Father Is
and the Father creates nothing unlike Himself.

Let us continue in the book.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To HAVE, GIVE &hellip;[^1]
</div>

&hellip; that&rsquo;s the key word.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To HAVE, GIVE all TO all.
</div>

Now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is a very preliminary step, and the only one you must take for
yourself.
</div>

Remember we were talking about being the Commander? This is the only
command you have to express, and it&rsquo;s the only one you will ever
make. To make the decision to shift from getting to giving, from
self-interest to Love extended, that shift, the decision to make that
shift is the only decision you have available to you. It is the only
expression of authority you will ever have available to you, because it
is the way you shift from &ldquo;my will be done&rdquo; to &ldquo;Thy
Will be done.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To HAVE, GIVE all TO all.

This is a very preliminary step, and the only one you must take for
yourself. It is not even necessary that you COMPLETE the step yourself,
but it IS necessary that you turn in that direction.
</div>

And I will add: It is necessary for you to turn in that direction for
your reasons.

You must make commitment to it for your reasons, not because someone
else talked you into it. Because if someone else talks you into doing it
and you do it because they said it, you still haven&rsquo;t taken the
step. You&rsquo;re just acting.

The Commander commands something, feeling full authority for making the
commandment and owning fully the responsibility for making the
commandment. It&rsquo;s like I&rsquo;ve said before, the only right use
of will is to choose not to use it.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is not even necessary that you COMPLETE the step yourself, but it IS
necessary that you turn in that direction. Having chosen to go that way,
you place YOURSELF in charge of the journey, where you and ONLY you must
remain.
</div>

Once you&rsquo;ve decided to turn in that direction, you must remain in
that attitude. Attitude… in that positioning of yourself for Movement.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This step APPEARS to exacerbate conflict rather than resolve it because
it is the BEGINNING step in reversing your perception, and turning it
right-side up. This conflicts with the upside-down perception which you
have not yet abandoned, or the change in direction would not have been
necessary. Some people remain at this step for a very long time,
experiencing VERY acute conflict.
</div>

These are not gentle words. They&rsquo;re not consoling words. They are
very practical expressions of what really happens when you make this
kind of decision. And it is stated clearly for you in a very
nitty-gritty way so that you will not misunderstand what is happening
and say, &ldquo;Oh, I must be doing something wrong because I thought
enlightenment was supposed to be easy. I thought it was supposed to be
full of harmony.&rdquo; No. You don&rsquo;t abandon habits easily. Why?
Because they are habits. Because you have made commitment to them over a
long period of time. And you&rsquo;re having to undo a habit of
commitment. You&rsquo;re having to undo a habit of honoring the habit.
You&rsquo;re having to withdraw your faith in what you&rsquo;ve placed
your faith. And this requires attention, persistent attention, so that
you don&rsquo;t slip back into the habit. You don&rsquo;t reach for
those comfy shoes.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Some people remain at this step for a very long time, experiencing VERY
acute conflict. At this point many try to accept the CONFLICT, rather
than take the next step towards its resolution.
</div>

&ldquo;I know I&rsquo;ve got to do this and I am going to do it. I am
going to take the next step. But right now I can&rsquo;t, I just
can&rsquo;t bring myself to do it. I&rsquo;m not gonna go back where I
was even though it&rsquo;s hell where I am. I know I was less conscious
before and I refuse to go back, but I refuse to go forward. And so
I&rsquo;m going to grit my teeth and just be with this very acute
conflict. And you know, I&rsquo;m going to say, Thank you, God. Thank
you, God. I know that this suffering is going to bless me. I know that
the Holy Spirit will turn it to my advantage. I know this suffering is
only virtual. It&rsquo;s present because I haven&rsquo;t quite made the
decision 100%. I know it isn&rsquo;t real. It&rsquo;s just because of
where I&rsquo;m choosing to stand at the moment. And the minute I choose
to move off the tack, it will disappear. So I&rsquo;m just going to just
endure it for a while. Ooooh! [audience laughter] Yes, I&rsquo;m going
to endure it a while. [audience amusement] It&rsquo;s too scary to do
anything else.&rdquo;

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
At this point many try to accept the CONFLICT, rather than take the next
step towards its resolution. Having taken the first step, however, they
WILL be helped. Once they have chosen what they CANNOT complete alone,
THEY ARE NO LONGER ALONE.
</div>

Now you never were alone to begin with. But once you take that first
step of reaching out beyond yourself you&rsquo;ve said, &ldquo;I am no
longer going to deny the existence of the Holy Spirit. I&rsquo;m no
longer going to deny the Presence of God. I am no longer going to insist
that I am the center and circumference of my life and I&rsquo;m only
going to pay attention to what&rsquo;s within the circumference of me as
I&rsquo;ve defined myself.&rdquo; You&rsquo;ve arrived at a point of
saying &ldquo;No.&rdquo; An invitation has been made. A door has been
opened, even if it was just a crack. And the Light is streaming in
through the crack.

To have, give. To give means you&rsquo;ve abandoned being alone.
You&rsquo;ve had to be willing to embrace at least one something else.
You&rsquo;ve abandoned your commitment to isolation.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&ldquo;To Have Peace, Teach Peace to Learn It&rdquo;
</div>

&ldquo;Uh oh. Smacks of involvement to me. Smacks of not being able to
ignore my Brother any more. Smacks of having to deal with him without
controlling him. Whew! Wow! I don&rsquo;t know if I can take
this.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&ldquo;To Have Peace, Teach Peace to Learn It&rdquo;
</div>

And what did I say? You teach by being. That&rsquo;s what we&rsquo;re
talking about here. We&rsquo;re not talking about having a whole set of
new words about peace with which you can cajole and badger and nudge and
influence your Brother into a new set of ideas and a new, let&rsquo;s
say, a new level of being peaceful together, even though it&rsquo;s
still peace for the purpose of self-preservation. In other words, peace
as a defense.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
All the separated ones &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; those who aren&rsquo;t awake yet &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; have a basic fear of retaliation and abandonment.
</div>

Do you ever wonder why the feeling of the potential for abandonment
comes to you? It&rsquo;s because the one you think you are doesn&rsquo;t
exist. And of course, if everyone finds out that you aren&rsquo;t what
you think you are, well they&rsquo;re not going to pay any attention to
you. They&rsquo;re not going to pay any attention to nothing, hardly.

But the wonderful fact is that underneath the definition you&rsquo;ve
given yourself, underneath and behind any thought you&rsquo;ve had about
yourself, there is this Pure Awareness, this Pure Consciousness, this
Pure Consciousness of Being, Awareness of Being, that&rsquo;s Real,
that&rsquo;s You. That is the Christ. That which predates, preexisted,
any thought you had about yourself, any definition, anything anybody
else thought about you. Something that preexisted it, can&rsquo;t
change, and therefore, is, was, and always will be nothing but Eternal
and God-derived.

So, again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
All the separated ones have a basic fear of retaliation and abandonment.
This is because they BELIEVE in attack and rejection, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; well, why do you all believe in attack and rejection? Because
those are the two means you use to keep everybody in line, aren&rsquo;t
they? Hmm.

&ldquo;Well, honey, you were a real bastard today so don&rsquo;t ask to
make love to me tonight.&rdquo; Or less words than that, &ldquo;Honey, I
have a headache.&rdquo; But it&rsquo;s because she&rsquo;s pissed off at
him for something that happened during the daytime. You see?

Rejection is one of the best tools you have to keep others in line. And
you can imply that you have something they really want, but they
can&rsquo;t have it until they straighten up. Right? Whew! That&rsquo;s
why you believe in it, because it&rsquo;s the tool you use on everyone
else, even though it&rsquo;s the tool they all use on you. And you think
that success comes at finding better means, more subtle means of
rejection and attack.

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is because they BELIEVE in attack and rejection, so this is what
they perceive and teach and LEARN.
</div>

Every time you use it and it seems to work, you&rsquo;ve taught yourself
that this is good and you reaffirm your commitment to it. And every time
it doesn&rsquo;t work, you say, &ldquo;This was good but I just
didn&rsquo;t do it well enough.&rdquo; And so you renew your commitment
to it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
These insane concepts are clearly the result of their own dissociation
and projection.
</div>

Meaning your own dissociation.

Oh, dissociation? Yes. Psychological term? No. Your bill of divorcement
from the Father. That&rsquo;s the dissociation. That&rsquo;s the only
dissociation. It&rsquo;s not a psychological term. It&rsquo;s not about
something that goes on in your puny little mind. You see?

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What you teach you are, but it is quite apparent that you can teach
wrongly, and therefore TEACH YOURSELVES WRONG.
</div>

You see, you&rsquo;re never just teaching everyone else. You&rsquo;re
always teaching yourself. And when you try to teach someone else
something that doesn&rsquo;t work, they learn that it doesn&rsquo;t work
and you learn that it doesn&rsquo;t work, and you don&rsquo;t try to
teach that any more. You find something better to teach that works. You
see? So you&rsquo;re always teaching yourself. You&rsquo;re always
confirming what you choose to believe to yourself every time you try to
hold another to what you believe.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Many thought that I was attacking them, even though it was quite
apparent that I was not. An insane learner learns strange lessons.

What you must understand is that, when you do not SHARE a thought
system, you ARE weakening it.
</div>

This is very important because it seems to you that you&rsquo;re doing
nothing when you&rsquo;re not strengthening a thought system. You
aren&rsquo;t just letting that thought system be with whatever degree of
strength it had before you neglected to respond to it. You&rsquo;re not
responding to it constitutes a withdrawal from the mutual agreement. And
when you withdraw from the mutual agreement, the mutual agreement is
less strong.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; when you do not SHARE a thought system, you ARE weakening it.
Those who BELIEVE in it therefore perceive this as an attack ON THEM.
</div>

How many of you have had an experience of, let&rsquo;s say, a history of
being abused by someone? And you have not objected. You have found ways
to live with it. It&rsquo;s what is called enabling. And finally you
arrive at a point where you feel a call for demonstrating more
self-respect. And so now you withdraw your cooperation from this
enabling relationship and you don&rsquo;t respond the same way. Now you
aren&rsquo;t doing anything to this other one, but you are no longer
doing things that you used to. And that one, because he is not clear,
sees your behavior as a withdrawal from the partnership, you might say,
as a withdrawal from the dance that the two of you were doing together.
He sees it as rejection. He sees you as being unkind. He sees you as
being no longer with him, which means against him. You see? And all of
you have played both partners at various times in your life.

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Many thought that I was attacking them, even though it was quite
apparent that I was not.
</div>

In other words, I was just not joining with them in their delusion, in
their misperception.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
An insane learner learns strange lessons.

What you must understand is that, when you do not SHARE a thought
system, you ARE weakening it. Those who BELIEVE in it therefore perceive
this as an attack ON THEM. This is because everyone identifies HIMSELF
with his thought system, and EVERY thought system centers on WHAT YOU
BELIEVE YOU ARE.
</div>

Ah, but what happens when you move into your Peace? What happens when
you move into the Singularity, without the clutter of your thought
systems? Well, in the quietness, what you believed you were, what you
thought you were, is no longer predominant, or even occupying your
attention. And you&rsquo;re standing at the threshold of finding out
that at the bottom line Peace is what you are. And it&rsquo;s the
opportunity for you to shift what you are identifying with. It&rsquo;s
the opportunity to shift allegiance from your thought system and your
belief about what you are to this new experience of What You Are.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If the center of the thought system is true, only truth extends from it.
But if a lie is at its center, only DECEPTION proceeds from it. All good
teachers realize that only fundamental change will last, but they do not
BEGIN at that level. Strengthening MOTIVATION for

Note: start of missing audio section.
{: .omit}

change is their first
and foremost goal. It is also their last and final one.
</div>

The teachers, that is.

In the last year and a half as we&rsquo;ve read through the Course,
we&rsquo;ve been addressing that which will alter your motivation, help
you to withdraw your motivation from your past habits, and to let it
become like the prow of an icebreaker moving in new directions where it
seemed you couldn&rsquo;t move before at all.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Increasing motivation for change IN THE LEARNER is all that a teacher
NEED do to guarantee change. This is because a change in motivation IS a
change of mind, and this will inevitably produce fundamental change
because the mind IS fundamental. The first step in the reversal or
undoing process, then, is &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; What?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the undoing of the GETTING concept.
</div>

Therefore, the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s first teaching is, To have, give.
That&rsquo;s the way the reversal begins, by addressing the crux of the
issue, and the crux of the issue is getting or giving.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Accordingly, the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s first lesson was &ldquo;To HAVE,
GIVE all TO all.&rdquo;
</div>

You have to have an object of your affection. &ldquo;You can&rsquo;t
just be like on a float in the rose parade throwing your petals,
throwing your petals, broadcasting them to anywhere but no place in
specific, no place specific.&rdquo; No, we&rsquo;re talking about giving
to something specific, having an object of your gift, of your gifting.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
We said that this is apt to increase conflict temporarily, and we can
clarify this still further now.

At this point, the equality of &ldquo;having&rdquo; and
&ldquo;being&rdquo; is not yet perceived.
</div>

And that&rsquo;s part of the reason I&rsquo;ve been talking about
teaching by being and healing by being.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Until it IS, &ldquo;having&rdquo; appears to be the OPPOSITE of
&ldquo;being.&rdquo; Therefore, the first lesson &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; &ldquo;To HAVE, GIVE all TO all&rdquo;&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; SEEMS to contain a contradiction, since it is being learned BY
A CONFLICTED MIND. This MEANS conflicting motivation, and so the lesson
CANNOT be learned consistently as yet.
</div>

And so, as long as it can&rsquo;t be learned consistently, learn it
inconsistently by means of persistence in returning to your Peace even
when you&rsquo;ve lost it.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Further, the mind of the learner projects its own split, and thus does
NOT perceive consistent minds in others, making him suspicious of THEIR
motivation.
</div>

Now mind you, this does not mean that because the learner projects his
own split that he does not perceive consistent minds in others in spite
of the fact that they&rsquo;re not expressing consistency themselves. In
other words, it doesn&rsquo;t mean that one should see consistency in
the minds of their Brothers when there is still inconsistency held in
their mind and being expressed.

What it means is, using myself as the example, the mind of the learner
projects its own split and thus does not perceive consistent minds in
me, did not perceive a consistent mind in me, making them suspicious of
my motivation. And so the Jews in authority in the church did not see
the Singularity of the Gift that I was giving, and therefore perceived
it as an attempt to undermine their authority. They did not trust my
motivations.

When you are coming from a conflicted mind and you meet someone who is
expressing a lack of conflict, someone who is unconflicted and is
therefore genuine and undefended, you are immediately suspicious. Not
because they are conflicted, but because you are still. That&rsquo;s
what this means.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the mind of the learner projects its own split, and thus does
NOT perceive consistent minds in others &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; when it is present in others &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; making him suspicious of THEIR motivation. This is the real
reason why, in many respects, the first lesson is the hardest to learn.
</div>

The reason being that your trust level is low. You know that
you&rsquo;re not trustworthy and you know that you&rsquo;re teaching
untrustworthiness in one way or another. You&rsquo;ll do what you need
to do to get a good deal, even if it&rsquo;s to the disadvantage of
another, just as long as it&rsquo;s not too flagrant. And you teach that
by your behavior, and others are teaching you the same thing, so your
level of trust is low.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is the real reason why, in many respects, the first lesson is the
hardest to learn. Still strongly aware of the ego in himself, and
responding primarily to the ego in others, he is being taught to react
to both as if what he DOES believe is NOT true.
</div>

In other words, the first lesson teaches you to react in a new way. To
give in order to have, to be absent the use of control to secure your
security.

And so &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Still strongly aware of the ego in himself, and responding primarily to
the ego in others, he is being taught &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; by virtue of the first lesson &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; to react to both as if what he DOES believe is NOT true.
</div>

You&rsquo;re being asked to believe that the way you have believed up
until this point is not true. You are truly being asked to abandon your
faith in what you believed was true. That is the position this first
lesson puts you in.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Upside-down as always, the ego perceives the first lesson as insane.
</div>

And I&rsquo;m going to add this. Not only does your ego attest to that,
but everyone else&rsquo;s ego will attest to it, too, and so
you&rsquo;re going to have to get support for accepting this first
lesson from the Holy Spirit, from a brand-new place, somewhere deep
inside of you. Some place where you are able to be really divinely
honest, in that place where you already Know that You Are Divine, that
place where you Know you already have Integrity. And you must gather
your strength for this from there, that Place of Excellence in You, the
Altar right in the middle of You, the Holy Spirit.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Upside-down as always, the ego perceives the first lesson as insane. In
fact, this is its only alternative here, since the other one, which
would be much LESS acceptable to it, would obviously be that IT &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the ego &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is insane. The ego&rsquo;s judgment, then, is predetermined by
what it IS, though no more so than is any other product of thought. The
fundamental change &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; why are we talking about fundamental change? Because
that&rsquo;s what this first lesson of the Holy Spirit addresses.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The fundamental change will still occur with the change of mind IN THE
THINKER.
</div>

In other words, when you decide to accept the first lesson, and you
reach out and you are joined, the Movement has begun. The Movement has
begun and to a certain degree is already out of your hands.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The fundamental change will still occur with the change of mind IN THE
THINKER. Meanwhile, the increasing clarity of the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s
Voice makes it impossible for the learner NOT to listen.
</div>

Some of you get scared and you lose the connection, you think. And you
think things have come to a standstill and you become depressed. But the
fact is that once the Movement has started, the Movement has started.
This is very important. Once the Movement has started, the Movement has
started and you cannot stop it! And the Movement will persist in spite
of your reluctance. And that&rsquo;s one of the reasons that the
conflict seems to increase, because the Movement has begun, you&rsquo;re
on your way Home, and if you become frightened, or reluctant, or upset,
and seem to lose the connection, the Movement still continues.

Simultaneously though, the Holy Spirit, your Guide, is 100% present with
you, facilitating your recognition of the Movement and present on your
behalf to encourage and pacify you as you go through the apparently
scary process of abandoning the exercise of control that you were never
ever required to put into place in the first place.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Meanwhile, the increasing clarity of the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s Voice makes
it impossible for the learner NOT to listen. For a time, then, he IS
receiving conflicting messages, AND ACCEPTING BOTH.
</div>

You accept both because you haven&rsquo;t learned how to be consistent
yet. Just understand that that&rsquo;s the way it works. So that you
realize, &ldquo;Oh. This is the way it works on the way Home.&rdquo;
I&rsquo;ll tell you something. It&rsquo;s not the way it works on the
way away from Home. If you understand that, then you will take the
increasing conflict as a good sign, because that doesn&rsquo;t happen on
the way away from home. And you&rsquo;ll say, &ldquo;Okay. This means
I&rsquo;m still on the right track. But I&rsquo;m not going to let this
dissuade me.&rdquo;

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Meanwhile, the increasing clarity of the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s Voice makes
it impossible for the learner NOT to listen. For a time, then, he IS
receiving conflicting messages, AND ACCEPTING BOTH. This is the classic
&ldquo;double bind&rdquo; in communication.
</div>

Now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The way OUT of conflict between two opposing thought systems is &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; What?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; clearly TO CHOOSE ONE and RELINQUISH THE OTHER.
</div>

Now, this is not complicated. [single audience laugh] A three-year-old
can comprehend this. I&rsquo;m not saying this to insult you. I&rsquo;m
saying this to remind you of something that you&rsquo;ve forgotten. And
that is that coming Home is simple. And that&rsquo;s all the clarity
that&rsquo;s needed is to know that it&rsquo;s between choosing for this
and abandoning that. Choosing for giving, abandoning getting.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you IDENTIFY with your thought system, and you cannot escape
this&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in other words, you do identify with your thought system.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you IDENTIFY with your thought system, and you cannot escape this,
and if you accept two thought systems which are in COMPLETE
disagreement, peace of mind IS &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; What?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; impossible.
</div>

Simple. It&rsquo;s just simply impossible.

Okay. So if you choose for both, and you&rsquo;re experiencing conflict
and you&rsquo;re uncomfortable, you know you&rsquo;re choosing to do
something impossible. It&rsquo;s not justification for abandoning the
Movement that already began that you can&rsquo;t stop.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you TEACH both&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; thought systems &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; which you will surely do as long as you ACCEPT both, you are
teaching conflict and LEARNING it. Yet you DO want peace, or you would
not have called upon the Voice for peace to help you. His LESSON is not
insane; the CONFLICT is.
</div>

Keep this clear. Because the goal is not insane, the way you&rsquo;re
trying to teach it is, so stick with the goal and change the means. Once
again, simple.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There can BE no conflict between sanity and insanity. Only one is true,
and therefore only one is REAL. The ego tries to persuade you that it is
up to YOU to decide which voice is true, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you see? Throws a little bit more of this suggestion of
personal authority at you and suggests that you have a capability as
part of an expression of your integrity.

Continuing &hellip;

Note: end of missing audio section.
{: .omit}

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; but the Holy Spirit teaches you that truth was created by God,
and YOUR decision CANNOT change it.
</div>

In other words, nothing&rsquo;s up to you at all. The only thing
that&rsquo;s up to you is to be willing to recognize Truth for What It
Is, but not to determine What It Is.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As you begin to realize the quiet power of the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s Voice
AND ITS PERFECT CONSISTENCY, it MUST dawn on your minds that you are
trying to undo a decision which was made irrevocably FOR you.
</div>

Just like imagining that you can get a bill of divorcement from the
Father is undoing a bond that can&rsquo;t be undone. It&rsquo;s just a
purely insane thought&mdash;senseless. That&rsquo;s what insane
means&mdash;senseless. Insanity has no organized structure to it.
Insanity isn&rsquo;t a thing. Insanity is confusion believed to be
orderly. Doesn&rsquo;t make it true. And it doesn&rsquo;t make insanity
real. But there is something Real&mdash;your Mind. And it is Sane,
Singular, not divided, therefore incapable of being in conflict,
incapable of being confused.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
That is why we suggested before that there was help in reminding
yourselves to allow the Holy Spirit to decide for God for YOU.
</div>

Waking up is you deciding for God on behalf of God Being All. The Holy
Spirit&rsquo;s task and commitment is to decide for God for you. The
Holy Spirit is nothing more than your Right Mind. But as long as you are
feeling disconnected, dissociated, from the Father, you may know that
the decision for God has already been made for you. And therefore,
it&rsquo;s not entirely up to the you, you presently think you are.

In other words, you&rsquo;ve got help, and ultimately the help is coming
from your Right Mind. And so the help and the acceptance of the help,
the embracing of the help and the incorporating of the help is one
integrated act of reintegration of you into a Singularity. Because
ultimately, it will have been You deciding for God for the confused one
that you seemed to be for a while. That&rsquo;s pure Integrity. It is
not someone else doing something for you. It&rsquo;s not someone else
bringing you into the Kingdom of Heaven on their shoulders. It&rsquo;s
you riding into the Kingdom of Heaven on your own shoulders, you might
say, because a reintegration of your Integrity has occurred, and the
Singularity of your Mind has been returned to You for You as your Mind
by You, with a capital &ldquo;Y&rdquo;.

This is where the artistic, exquisite beauty of how it works becomes
recognizable, because the undoing of something that never happened is
accomplished by the unalterable Integrity of You, helping the
dissociated sense of yourself that you&rsquo;re entertaining to come
back into full appreciation of itself and back into its full capacity.
So it constitutes healing that is the return to Sanity, a return that
has occurred at the hand of the Divine Sanity of You Yourself.
It&rsquo;s Pure Integrity. It&rsquo;s Pure Integration. It&rsquo;s Pure
Empowerment. It&rsquo;s Pure Unity.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You are NOT asked to make insane decisions, although you are free to
THINK you are. It MUST, however, be insane to believe that IT IS UP TO
YOU to decide what God&rsquo;s creations ARE.
</div>

See, that was the whole problem. &ldquo;But, Father, I&rsquo;d rather
define it myself. But, Father, I&rsquo;d rather see it my way. I would
rather look at Your Infinite Expression and see it the way I want to see
it.&rdquo; You wanted to decide what God&rsquo;s Creations are.

And so, again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It MUST, however, be insane to believe that IT IS UP TO YOU to decide
what God&rsquo;s creations ARE. The Holy Spirit perceives the conflict
exactly as it is. Therefore, His second lesson is:

&ldquo; To HAVE peace, TEACH peace to LEARN it.&rdquo;
</div>

The Movement has begun.

I love you.

I don&rsquo;t want to disturb you in any way, but you will have ample
opportunities during the coming week to learn peace by choosing to teach
it. Nothing special has been arranged for you. [audience laughter]

And I look forward to being with you next week. Okay.

[^1]: T6.5 'To Have, Give All to All'

