---
title: Mar 7, 2004
ref: "T6.6 'To Have Peace, Teach Peace to Learn It'"
alink: "/acim/text/06/chap0606/"
---

Good afternoon. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

Well, is the Course becoming more interesting, or more troublesome? In
the recent weeks, you&rsquo;ve all been put more and more on the spot in
terms of involvement with the ideas, the implementing of the ideas,
rather than the contemplation of the ideas in the Course, which has
brought you to the threshold of having to make changes. That&rsquo;s
what makes it troublesome. It&rsquo;s also what makes it interesting.
Because the moment you are willing to make changes, or abandon old
habits, things that had been available to you before, but which you did
not recognize because of the habits you were employing, will begin to
register with you. I mean, they will begin to register with you as
opportunities. I&rsquo;m speaking of it in a very positive sense.
It&rsquo;s not that you will all of a sudden see how horrible everything
is.

One of the key things that we&rsquo;ve been discussing recently is the
importance of your attention. You might think that it&rsquo;s necessary
for you to begin to pay attention to what you&rsquo;re giving your
attention to. But we have to back up a little bit from that, and the
question has to be, &ldquo;How are you using your attention?&rdquo; Not
what is your attention being placed on, but how are you using your
attention? Why do you give your attention here and not there?

Then we have to back up even further to a more primary place. The
question is, are you using your attention all by yourself, or are you
using your attention in partnership with the Father? Are you using your
attention as an independent entity? Or, in the process of giving your
attention to whatever there is to give your attention to, are you
conscious of doing it in tandem with your Guide, Me, or the Father, in
which there&rsquo;s no sense of doing it alone, in which at the least
there is the constant awareness that there is someone standing with you
whose perspective is not governed by all the definitions you&rsquo;ve
given to everything, all the agreements you&rsquo;ve made with everyone
else, and whose perspective always has as its focus the recognition of
and the glorification of God in whatever you&rsquo;re giving your
attention to?

So, if you&rsquo;re going through your day, and obviously you are going
to be giving your attention to something because that is the state of
being conscious, if you are going through your day without ever having a
sense of being companioned with, then you can count on it you&rsquo;re
going through your day in your typical ego mindset of being a separated,
independent, autonomous, self-regulating entity. That&rsquo;s called the
human condition. That&rsquo;s called the ego frame of reference.
It&rsquo;s you unconscious of Reality in the middle of a dream that
you&rsquo;ve dreamed up. And that is exactly what everyone will wake up
out of, so don&rsquo;t value it.

It&rsquo;s really important to understand that it&rsquo;s this state of
autonomy which constitutes your incapacity to recognize God. It
therefore is what constitutes your prison. It&rsquo;s what keeps you in
a state of ignorance, ignorant of the Truth that would set you free,
ignorant of a Conscious Experience of Being that it&rsquo;s your
Birthright to be having forever.

So, it isn&rsquo;t, what are you giving your attention to? It&rsquo;s
how are you using your attention? And even before that, are you giving
your attention to everything in tandem with, in cooperation with, in
Brotherhood with, One Who Is Awake, your Guide, the Holy Spirit, me, the
Father?

I promise you that if during the past two weeks when I said you would
have occasion to teach peace in order to learn it that those occasions
arose because you chose not to be joined with One Who Is Awake while
observing your world. You chose to look at it privately. When you look
privately, all of God that is the only thing there is for you to see
does not look like God. It looks like the fear through which
you&rsquo;re looking at everything; a fear that you cannot avoid when
you are pretending to be independent and on your own.

And you know what? You will see justification for your fear, and you
will frighten yourself, and you will make yourself ill. Why? Because
you&rsquo;re looking alone through the lens of fear, sending out
messengers of fear that will return to you proclaiming the abundance of
things to be frightened about. And if you&rsquo;re not careful, you will
become preoccupied with the bad news, and in a greater state of fear,
you will give even more attention to what you&rsquo;re looking at with
even more fear until, if it&rsquo;s not squelched, you become obsessed
with the awfulness of human will. Then, in the horror of that awful
experience that you&rsquo;re having, you will find yourself faced with
only one thing to do, which by now has become the hardest thing to do,
and that is to find your peace.

Of course now you&rsquo;re severely upset, and maybe your body is even
giving you strong signals of pain or illness, and you say, &ldquo;How am
I supposed to find my peace in the middle of this?&rdquo; But you find
that you have to find a way, because it hurts too much not to. And so
now, finally, you do what you should have done in the beginning. You
choose to withdraw your attention from the awfulness of human will and
come back within. You soak in a hot tub, or you meditate. You find some
way to become still within yourself and turn to the Altar, turn to the
Voice for Truth, turn to the Holy Spirit which is nothing more than your
right Mind. And it&rsquo;s hard.

But, if you do it with singleness of purpose, it can happen almost
instantaneously. The more undivided your intent, the more rapidly the
awfulness of human will, will fade from your frayed nerve endings, if
you will. And you will find peace returning. You will find inner
stability returning. And you will find the capacity to look at your
world, not alone this time, and find that there&rsquo;s another way to
look at it.

Now it might mean that you will still see a call for correction in your
world. The evidence of the awfulness of human will, will still be there
calling for you to become clear about the Truth of what has to be there
underneath the awfulness of human will that&rsquo;s being expressed, the
Christ that is there underneath the behavior that looks un-Christlike,
the intent of which is un-Christlike. And so the call for correction
will still be there. But you will be free to deal with it with peace, so
that your response teaches peace, and you learn it.

You know all of this, all this, the teaching in the Course, the movement
along which you might call your spiritual path, all of it has to do with
real fundamental change. Where? In you, so that you begin teaching
something new and being an agent for change in the world. But you know
what? The quote &ldquo;being an agent for change in the world&rdquo;
unquote is something that happens spontaneously. It&rsquo;s not
something you do. You attend to what? Where you&rsquo;re giving your
attention, why you&rsquo;re giving it there, and whether you&rsquo;re
giving it all by yourself, or in community with God, the Holy Spirit,
me, or your Guide. Not alone, in other words.

And what may not be sinking in yet is that this makes all the difference
in the world to your experience of the world and of who you are. It
really makes a difference. It really is transformational. And it really
is essential. Don&rsquo;t wait until you&rsquo;re in excruciating pain
before you&rsquo;re willing to acknowledge that it&rsquo;s essential.
You can bring the same amount of devotion and commitment to what is
essential when nothing excruciating is happening.

But the tendency is to [said in a funny high-pitched voice] play with
your spirituality. &ldquo;Ohhh. Life is so sweet. Ohhh. God is so
wonderful. Oh, I know underneath, around, above the Everlasting Arms of
Love are holding me.&rdquo; Oh, yeah. But what is this &ldquo;me&rdquo;
that the Underlying Arms of Love is holding? Is it someone who is
sweetly being independent; being independent and having all these
spiritual thoughts? [said in the same funny voice.] &ldquo;Ohh! I
don&rsquo;t need to worry about just having fantasies of spirituality
because I know God is holding me.&rdquo; Well, hell! God&rsquo;s been
holding you since the Moment of Creation, and it hasn&rsquo;t done you a
bit of good if you haven&rsquo;t been willing to say, &ldquo;Oh! Hi,
Father. Not only do I know that you&rsquo;re holding me, but I&rsquo;m
choosing to actually be aware of You as You&rsquo;re holding me here in
Your Arms. I&rsquo;m willing to actually acknowledge You and the fact
that I have a relationship with You. I am consciously being with You.
Like a nursing child, I look into your eyes and I connect with You. I
acknowledge being with You, and because I am, I can see and feel the
fact that You are connected with me. And I choose to stay in this
Consciousness of Being while I participate in everything that You are
unfolding, All of Creation.&rdquo;

You see what I&rsquo;m saying? It takes practice. It takes persistence.
You have an age-old habit of looking at everything all by yourself.
It&rsquo;s second nature to you. Ah! Second nature? What&rsquo;s first
nature? Second nature is a substitute. Your rule needs to be, &ldquo;No
substitutes allowed. No substitutions, please. I want the original, real
experience.&rdquo; Well, you&rsquo;re not going to have the original
experience until you choose well as to how you&rsquo;re going to use
your attention.

And, you know what? The wonderful thing is that nobody can see where
you&rsquo;re giving your attention. Nobody can tell you&rsquo;re doing
anything different than you did before. It&rsquo;s not something that
sticks out like a sore thumb. So you can&rsquo;t claim that people will
think you&rsquo;re weird if you give your attention here or there. If
you give your attention to the Holy Spirit first, and then look with the
Holy Spirit at what&rsquo;s happening in your experience so that you may
be in that experience out from the clarity that comes from the joining.
You don&rsquo;t have to &hellip; you can&rsquo;t say, &ldquo;I
don&rsquo;t have time.&rdquo; Because you can do this in every moment,
in every situation. Every encounter with your Brother or Sister is an
occasion for not doing it as a private independent entity.

Okay. I&rsquo;m losing your attention because I&rsquo;m repeating myself
and you would like something new and stimulating. And you need to pay
attention to how you&rsquo;re using your attention right now.
Don&rsquo;t worry. I&rsquo;m used to people tuning me out. [single,
brief audience laugh] And it&rsquo;s all right because I know, before
long, I&rsquo;ll have your attention again. And every time I have your
attention, it offers another opportunity for helping secure you in the
place where you feel the blessing of existing more consistently. I also
know that there really isn&rsquo;t any other way you can do it at the
moment. And so I&rsquo;m not frustrated because I&rsquo;m not expecting
you to do what you can&rsquo;t do. And I want you to give yourselves the
same loving consideration.

Okay, we&rsquo;ll go to the book. We ended up with the sentence which is
the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s second lesson: To have peace &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To HAVE peace, TEACH peace to LEARN it.[^1]

This is still a preliminary step, since &ldquo;having&rdquo; and
&ldquo;being&rdquo; are still not equated. It is, however, more advanced
than the first step, which is really only a thought REVERSAL. The second
step is a positive affirmation of WHAT YOU WANT.
</div>

There&rsquo;s a little more involvement, in other words, on your part.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This, then, is a step in the direction OUT of conflict, since it means
that alternatives have been considered, and ONE has been chosen as MORE
DESIRABLE.
</div>

Again, a little more involvement on your part, a little bit more
conscious intent on your part, a little more focus of your attention,
and therefore a little more clarity.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Nevertheless, the evaluation &ldquo;more desirable&rdquo; still implies
that the desirable has DEGREES. Therefore, although this step is
essential for the ultimate decision, it is clearly NOT the final one. It
is clear, at this point, that the lack of order of difficulty in
miracles has not yet been accepted, because nothing is difficult that is
WHOLLY DESIRED.
</div>

Again, something that is wholly desired is a desire that has nothing
extraneous to it. It is purely itself, and is therefore what I&rsquo;ve
referred to as a Singularity.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To desire wholly is to CREATE, and creating CANNOT be difficult if God
Himself created you AS a creator. The second step, then, is still
perceptual, although it is a giant step toward the unified perception
which parallels God&rsquo;s knowing.

As you take this step &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; which step? To have peace, teach peace to learn it.

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As you take this step and HOLD THIS DIRECTION, you will be pushing
toward the center of your thought system, where the FUNDAMENTAL change
will occur. You are only beginning this step now, but you have started
on this way by realizing that ONLY ONE WAY IS POSSIBLE. You do not yet
realize this consistently and so your progress is intermittent, but the
second step is easier than the first because it FOLLOWS. The very fact
that you have accepted THAT is a demonstration of your growing awareness
that the Holy Spirit WILL lead you on.
</div>

In other words, not only are you not alone, but the One that is with you
has an intent to lead you Home, to not leave you abandoned, to not leave
you with the feeling of nothing or no one significant being involved
with you. It is the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s intent for you to experience
being consciously loved for no good reason. Without justification. Just
because.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&ldquo;Be Vigilant Only for God and His Kingdom&rdquo;
</div>

Ooooh! Here we go again. More work. Less unconsciousness. Less [in a
funny, dragged out, sleepy voice] drowsy, comfy sleep. Tsk.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&ldquo;Be Vigilant Only for God and His Kingdom&rdquo;

For your own salvation you must be critical, since your salvation IS
critical to the whole Sonship.
</div>

Wow. You make a difference. You thought this was all just about puny
little you waking up. But puny little you waking up is the Christ That
You Are coming back into his or her full Conscious Capacity To Reflect
And Glorify God. And that constitutes a decrease in what we could call
the unconsciousness of the Brotherhood of Man, the Sons and Daughters of
God as a whole. Because while you&rsquo;re insisting on dreaming your
dreams and you are out of touch with the rest of the Brotherhood, the
rest of the Brotherhood… the rest of the Brotherhood misses you. It
experiences a lack. And it&rsquo;s the Divine Right, it&rsquo;s the
Birthright of all of the Brotherhood to be experiencing Itself in Its
Totality. And so your waking up affects the whole, blesses the whole.
It&rsquo;s not inconsequential.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
We said before that the Holy Spirit is evaluative, and MUST be. Yet His
evaluation does not extend BEYOND you, or you would share it. In YOUR
mind, and your mind ONLY, He sorts out the true from the false, and
teaches you to judge every thought that you allow to enter your mind in
the light of what God PUT there.
</div>

In other words, in Light of what God already put there before you added
your own cute, little, particular biased perspective.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Whatever is IN ACCORD with this light He &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; retains, to strengthen the Kingdom in YOU. What is PARTLY in
accord with truth He accepts and purifies. But what is OUT OF ACCORD
entirely He rejects by judging AGAINST.
</div>

In other words, the Holy Spirit says &ldquo;No!&rdquo; to it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is how He keeps the Kingdom perfectly consistent and perfectly
unified.
</div>

In other words, as you return Home, the Holy Spirit does not allow you
to bring confusion and conflict with you. He helps you to see it so that
you can release it, abandon it, neglect to reinforce it, so that your
mind naturally comes into a state of alignment with the way the Kingdom
works.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What you must remember, however, is that what the Holy Spirit rejects
the ego ACCEPTS.
</div>

Which means that at the initial stages, the Holy Spirit is going to be
rejecting most of what you believe. But you know what? Here&rsquo;s the
key. In the rejection of what you believe, He doesn&rsquo;t reject you,
and holds you up in your own face reflecting back to you that which has
Integrity, that which is Love, that which is All Of What God Is
Expressing right where you are that you had been ignoring because you
gave preference to your fantastic, imaginative definition that you had
created for yourself about yourself.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What you must remember, however, is that what the Holy Spirit rejects
the ego ACCEPTS. This is because they are in fundamental disagreement
about everything, being in fundamental disagreement about &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; What?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; WHAT YOU ARE.
</div>

In other words, you&rsquo;re not the definition you&rsquo;ve given
yourself.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego&rsquo;s beliefs on this crucial issue vary, and that is why it
promotes different moods. The Holy Spirit NEVER varies on this point,
and so the ONE mood He engenders is joy. He PROTECTS it by rejecting
everything that does NOT foster joy, and so He alone can keep you wholly
joyous.

The Holy Spirit does not teach your mind to be critical of other minds
because He does not want you to teach errors AND LEARN THEM YOURSELVES.
</div>

Remember what you teach, you learn.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He would hardly be consistent if He allowed you to STRENGTHEN what you
must learn to AVOID. In the mind of the THINKER, then, He IS judgmental,
but only in order to unify the mind so it can perceive WITHOUT judgment.
This enables the mind to TEACH without judgment&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and this is a key thing. You can recognize a call for Love, you
can recognize expressions of lovelessness, without employing judgment.
This is extremely important. They don&rsquo;t go hand in hand. You can
recognize a Brother&rsquo;s pain that is being occasioned by his
unconsciousness of What He Divinely Is, What He Truly Is, without
judgment, without saying, &ldquo;Boy, you&rsquo;re ignorant. Boy, what a
fool you are to believe that. You can&rsquo;t be my friend.&rdquo; You
can look at it without reaction, and you can see it for what it
is&mdash;a call for Love, a call for correction&mdash;and be the
presence of that which corrects, but without judgment.

So the Holy Spirit will not teach you how to correct others by pointing
out their faults, because that is what you will learn. But the Holy
Spirit will tell you how to be with that Brother in a manner that will
provide the opportunity, the maximum opportunity for the light to go on
in that Brother&rsquo;s mind. And in most instances, it&rsquo;s the last
thing you as a puny little mind would think of. It&rsquo;s the last
thing you would think would work.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This enables the mind to TEACH without judgment, and therefore to learn
to BE without judgment. The undoing is necessary only in YOUR mind, so
that you cannot project falsely. God Himself has established what you
can project with perfect safety. Therefore, the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s
third lesson is:

&lsquo;Be vigilant ONLY for God and HIS Kingdom.&rdquo;
</div>

It&rsquo;s another way of saying, &ldquo;Be vigilant for the Voice for
Truth, instead of the voice for fear.&rdquo;

But you know what? Don&rsquo;t be vigilant for the Voice for Truth all
by yourself. Join with the Holy Spirit. Be vigilant only for God and His
Kingdom with the help of the Holy Spirit. Remember you want to stop
doing stuff alone.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is a major step toward FUNDAMENTAL change. Yet it is still a lesson
in thought reversal, since it implies that there is something you must
be vigilant AGAINST. It has advanced far from the first lesson which was
PRIMARILY a reversal, and also from the second which was essentially the
identification of what is MORE desirable. THIS step, which follows from
the second as the second follows from the first, emphasizes the
DICHOTOMY between the desirable and the undesirable. It therefore makes
the ULTIMATE choice inevitable.
</div>

Somewhere along the line, if you&rsquo;re actually going to change, if
you&rsquo;re actually going to wake up, the way you used to do things is
going to have to become obviously less desirable than being awake. But
that&rsquo;s not enough. It will finally have come to the place where
you find it to be totally undesirable, totally unacceptable. Then you
will bring that Singularity of Intent to the issue, and you will have
changed.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
While the first step seems to INCREASE conflict and the second step
still entails it to some extent, this one calls for CONSISTENT EFFORT
AGAINST IT.
</div>

In other words, you have to come to a place where conflict in any form
is untenable to you. Well, you know, most of you will say, &ldquo;Well
of course it&rsquo;s untenable to me! I don&rsquo;t like
conflict.&rdquo; Watch what you give your attention to though. When you
turn on the TV, what do you go to watch? When you pick up the newspaper,
what do you give your attention to? When you&rsquo;re at the checkout at
the grocery store, does the Inquirer get your attention? Does whose
marriage is in trouble get your attention? Watch where you give your
attention to and you will realize that you tend to be dishonest with
yourself all day long if you think that conflict is untenable to you.
Why, conflict is the spice of life that keeps your day from being
boring, doesn&rsquo;t it? Just be aware.

Again because this is important.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
While the first step seems to INCREASE conflict and the second step
still entails it to some extent, this one calls for CONSISTENT EFFORT
AGAINST IT. We said already that you can be as vigilant AGAINST the ego
as FOR it.
</div>

Okay &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
We said already that you can be as vigilant AGAINST the ego as FOR it.
This lesson teaches not only that you CAN be, but that you MUST be. It
does not concern itself with order of difficulty, but with CLEAR-CUT
PRIORITY FOR VIGILANCE.
</div>

For not being sloppy in your mind, for not being lazy in your
attentiveness, without disregard for what you&rsquo;re being attentive
to. Wake up and be conscious, more conscious than you&rsquo;ve been
before. Not of how awful human will is, but whether you&rsquo;re
choosing to give your attention to the awfulness of human will, or
whether you&rsquo;re choosing to give your attention to the threshold of
your capacity to see with the Holy Spirit and be the transformation of
what you had called the awfulness of human will. You see?

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This step is unequivocal in that it teaches there must be NO exceptions,
although it does not deny that the temptation to MAKE exceptions will
occur.
</div>

Of course they will. It&rsquo;s the old crab barrel theory. You crawl out
of the crab barrel, or try to, and the other crabs will grab you and
pull you back in. And if you manage to get out, they&rsquo;ll whine, and
they&rsquo;ll plead, and they&rsquo;ll cajole, and they&rsquo;ll try to
convince you that, &ldquo;It&rsquo;s dangerous out there. You&rsquo;d
better come back of your own free will.&rdquo;, even though they
can&rsquo;t reach you any more.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Here, then, your consistency is called on DESPITE chaos.
</div>

Just as when you&rsquo;ve given your attention poorly and you&rsquo;ve
become fascinated with the awfulness of human will and you have begun to
obsess on it, and you finally find yourself in excruciating pain, well,
you find that your consistency is called on despite the excruciating
pain, despite the distress. And now, because you&rsquo;re hurting so
much, you&rsquo;re willing to say, &ldquo;Oh! Okay! Okay! I got the
message! As difficult as it is under these circumstances, I will give my
consistency.&rdquo; Why? Because at that point you know it serves you
well, even though in order for it to serve you well, you&rsquo;re having
to give up any authority you thought you had on your own.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Here, then, your consistency is called on DESPITE chaos. Yet chaos and
consistency CANNOT coexist for long, since they are mutually exclusive.

As long as you must be vigilant against anything, however, you are not
recognizing this mutual exclusiveness, and are holding the belief that
you can CHOOSE EITHER ONE. By teaching WHAT to choose, the Holy Spirit
will ultimately be able to teach you that YOU NEED NOT CHOOSE AT ALL.
This will finally liberate your will FROM choice, and direct it towards
creation WITHIN the Kingdom.
</div>

In other words, from a different place than your independent
self-authorizing mentality.

But, don&rsquo;t think that you can skip over the step of choosing one
or the other and suddenly jump into the choiceless place, because you
have to learn the difference. You have to learn the difference… you
actually have to learn the difference between Love and a call for Love
without judgment.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As long as you must be vigilant against anything, however, you are not
recognizing this mutual exclusiveness, and are holding the belief that
you can CHOOSE EITHER ONE.
</div>

But, you must begin the practice of distinguishing between the two and
choosing one over the other, else you will not come to a point of
recognizing what in your mind has expressed insanity, and what in your
mind expresses Sanity. And until you can distinguish the difference, you
can&rsquo;t make the choice for one or the other.

And as you begin to make the choice for one or the other, and are
choosing for Sanity, Sanity increases. And as Sanity increases, it
becomes more and more obvious to you that the other choice is not a
choice at all. That in actuality, it&rsquo;s a fantasy choice. And in
that recognition, you abandon the idea that there is a choice at all.

But I&rsquo;ll tell you something. You try to move into a place of
making no choices before you&rsquo;ve distinguished the difference
between your Sanity and your insane thoughts, and the dream will
continue. So you cannot avoid that part of the process, if you will.

The Holy Spirit is here to show you what isn&rsquo;t working for you.
Why? So that you can see it. Because once you see it, you will abandon
it, because none of you does anything that you see is useless.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Choosing through the Holy Spirit will lead you TO the Kingdom. You
create by what you ARE&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in other words, by being instead of thinking, by being instead
of talking.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You create by what you ARE, but this is what you must learn. The way to
learn it is inherent in the third step&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that being, &ldquo;Be vigilant only for God and His
Kingdom.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The way to learn it is inherent in the third step, which brings together
the lessons implied in the others, and goes beyond them towards real
integration.

If you allow yourselves to have in your minds ONLY what God put there,
you ARE acknowledging your mind as God created it. Therefore, you are
accepting it AS IT IS.
</div>

Well, I&rsquo;ll tell you something. Your mind, as God created it, is a
far cry from your mind as you&rsquo;re using it! Because you&rsquo;re
using your mind as a tool for defense against a conflicted world that
appears to be conflicted because you are using your mind erroneously and
causing the Kingdom of Heaven to register with you in a distorted way.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you allow yourselves to have in your minds ONLY what God put there,
you ARE acknowledging your mind as God created it.
</div>

Well, how does that happen? It happens by you shutting up all of your
thinking, and in the silence paying attention to what&rsquo;s left in
your mind. Well, you know, a lot of you do that. It&rsquo;s called
meditation. And then you find that in that space, you find no authority
for actions. &ldquo;Well, that&rsquo;s pretty useless,&rdquo; you say.
Well, you know what? Maybe you&rsquo;re not here to act in the way that
you thought you were. Maybe you&rsquo;re here to pay attention. Maybe
you&rsquo;re here to be the Conscious Awareness of What God Is Being,
and not be a self-started provocateur of interesting life experiences.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you allow yourselves to have in your minds ONLY what God put there,
you ARE acknowledging your mind as God created it. Therefore, you are
accepting it AS IT IS. Since it IS whole, you are teaching peace BECAUSE
you believe in it. The final step will still be taken FOR you by God,
but by the third step, the Holy Spirit has PREPARED you for God. He is
GETTING YOU READY for the translation of having into being by the very
nature of the steps you must take with Him.

You learn first that having rests on GIVING &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; here we&rsquo;re going to go through the three steps.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You learn first that having rests on GIVING, and NOT on getting. Next
you learn that you learn what you TEACH, and that you WANT TO LEARN
PEACE. This is the CONDITION for identifying with the Kingdom, since it
is the condition OF the Kingdom. You have believed that you are WITHOUT
the Kingdom, and have therefore excluded yourself FROM it in your
belief.
</div>

In other words, in your imagination, and by the creation of definitions
of yourself that bear no relation to Reality.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is therefore essential to teach you that you must be INCLUDED, and
that the BELIEF that you are NOT is the ONLY thing that you must
exclude.

The third step &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the one we&rsquo;ve been discussing today &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is thus one of PROTECTION for your minds, allowing you to
identify ONLY with the center, where God placed the altar to Himself.
</div>

The center of what? The center of your Brother&rsquo;s mind so you can
direct it well? No. The very center of you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
We have already said that altars are beliefs, but God and His creations
are BEYOND belief because they are beyond question. The Voice for God
speaks only for BELIEF beyond question, which is the preparation for
BEING without question. As long as belief in God and His Kingdom is
assailed by ANY doubts in your minds, His &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; God&rsquo;s &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; perfect accomplishment is NOT apparent to you. This is why you
must be vigilant ON GOD&rsquo;S BEHALF. The ego speaks AGAINST His
creation, and therefore DOES engender doubt. You cannot go BEYOND belief
until you believe fully.
</div>

Until you believe what? Until you believe the Truth. And until you
abandon your belief in what you made-up. And that&rsquo;s what you need
to learn to make the distinction between what God made and what you
made-up.

Oh, I know, it sounds like that means that working with the Holy Spirit
means going on an internal witch hunt uncovering all your flaws. No. You
know what? It&rsquo;s letting the Holy Spirit walk with you through your
mind so that the jewels of your Being might be pointed out where they
had escaped your attention because they are crusted over with your
lovelessness, your loveless self-definitions, your loveless definitions
of creation.

And so It picks up this dirty rock, and you think, &ldquo;Oh God!
He&rsquo;s going to tell me that this is me. Nothing but a dirty
clod.&rdquo; And the Holy Spirit holds it up and says, &ldquo;Hey. Take
your hand here and rub it.&rdquo; So you take it, this awfulness of
yours, and you rub it because you&rsquo;ve been willing to bring your
attention to where the Holy Spirit told you to give it, this awfulness
in you. He told you to rub it, and you rub it and the stuff flakes off.
My goodness! There&rsquo;s sparkle. My goodness! There&rsquo;s depth.
There&rsquo;s color. There&rsquo;s illumination. Wow! I&rsquo;m
beautiful! Wow! I&rsquo;m not what it looked like I was.

Be willing to go for walks with the Holy Spirit right through the middle
of you so that what isn&rsquo;t true about you can be looked at, and you
have the opportunity to find that all it was, was a discoloration, a
covering over of something that is True About You and has been forever
True About You. It becomes a Joy to do this, truly.

But, you know what? You won&rsquo;t find out until you do it. And I need
to be clear with you about that. Likewise, it will become perfectly
clear to you when you do it. Now do you really have something better to
do? [a little tiny audience laugh]

&ldquo;Hey, you know, leave here, go out, investigate the awfulness of
human will a little bit more. Be offended by it. Tie yourself up in a
knot because of it. Find a way to retaliate. And then find a way to deal
with the retaliation you get for the retaliation you gave. And then deal
with how much darker everything got. Sure, go ahead!&rdquo; You know
what? You can do it. You have been doing it. And you still exist,
don&rsquo;t you? You still exist because, in spite of all of this, you
can&rsquo;t stop being the Direct Expression Of God That You Are. You
still can&rsquo;t stop being the Christ, although you are very good at
ignoring it. So you can go on and do it longer.

I&rsquo;m telling you that you have an alternative. And I&rsquo;m saying
anytime you want to take the alternative, you can. And what the heck,
why not do it now? I&rsquo;m not going to tell you to get a rod and put
it up your backbone. And I&rsquo;m not going to get a cattle prod and
walk around behind you. I&rsquo;m telling you, you have another choice,
and I&rsquo;m encouraging you to explore it. I am encouraging you to
implement it. I&rsquo;m encouraging you to bring commitment to it.

I am encouraging you to learn how to become Single-Minded. I&rsquo;m
encouraging you to employ some self-discipline, so that you observe
where you&rsquo;re giving your attention, and whether you&rsquo;re
giving it alone. Why? So that you can choose to give it in tandem with
the Holy Spirit. Why? So that you can learn to distinguish between what
God made and what you made-up out of what God made, or what you made-up
about what God made. Why? So that you can discern between your Sanity
and your insanity so clearly that the insanity registers with you as
exactly what it is so that you no longer find it attractive and can lose
the obsession with constantly refreshing it, and make a whole-hearted,
singular choice for your Sanity.

And you know what? I&rsquo;m going to do it until all of my sleeping
Brothers are awake.

I love you. And I hope this next week is a better one for you than the
last two were.

Okay.

[^1]: T6.6 'To Have Peace, Teach Peace to Learn It'

