---
title: Mar 28, 2004
ref: "T7.0 Introduction"
alink: "/acim/text/07/chap0700/"
---

Good afternoon. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

You&rsquo;ll have to forgive Paul. He&rsquo;s having to really abandon
himself to me today [small laugh] because there&rsquo;s something I need
to speak about. It&rsquo;s really not anything different from what
we&rsquo;ve been speaking of for the last three or four weeks, but in a
way it brings the point home in the most practical of terms. We&rsquo;ve
talked about shifting, we&rsquo;ll say, operating systems; shifting from
the habit and principle of getting to that of giving, to that of the
Extension of Love. It&rsquo;s a wonderful idea, isn&rsquo;t it?
It&rsquo;s pleasing to think about it, but it seems to be an entirely
different thing to live it, doesn&rsquo;t it?

Getting is based upon the idea that the only way to survive is for
relationships to be transactional. Why? Because the rules of
transactional relationships provide you with a guarantee; a guarantee
that you will not end up being shortchanged. This for that. I&rsquo;ll
take care of you and all your needs if you will take care of me and all
my needs. But you begin to fall short of meeting my needs and I&rsquo;m
out of here. This is [laughing] &hellip; this is really the practical
bottom line of marriages, isn&rsquo;t it? Or of any somewhat harmonious
and ongoing relationship.

But you know what? Another part of the bottom line of transactional
relationships is the premise that each of you is perfectly
individual&mdash;perfectly, independently deposited into the middle of
the Universe. You&rsquo;re taught to grow up and learn to stand on your
own two feet, aren&rsquo;t you? To be respectably self-sufficient.

Living that way is hell, because it&rsquo;s based upon a fundamental
illusion. The Truth that counteracts and obliterates that illusion is
that every single one of you is irrevocably one with every other
individual, irrevocably one with the whole Brotherhood, and even more
primarily than that, irrevocably one with your Source. Therefore,
there&rsquo;s no way for you to be independent. There&rsquo;s no way for
you to be successful, respectably successful in your own right. Whether
you want to look at it or not, you are all dependent upon each other.
Dependent upon each other not really because you&rsquo;re helpless, but
dependent upon each other because you&rsquo;re incomplete without each
other. You&rsquo;re incomplete without each other.

And you know what? The only thing that is going to move you into the
experience of your unity with everyone else, and therefore the
experience of the Wholeness of You, is going to be when you shift from
getting to giving, when you shift from behaving so as to protect
yourself, into behaving because you care about another and because you
care enough to extend the very best, which means relinquishing your
habitual way of reacting from memory to every situation, and instead,
choosing to give your attention to that Place of Excellence in You and
extend yourself from there.

Now, we&rsquo;ve talked about this before. I haven&rsquo;t shocked you
with anything new today. You might say that when we talked about it
before, it&rsquo;s been like class work, and now today we&rsquo;re going
to have a little lab work where what we&rsquo;ve been talking about gets
translated into practical application, if I may put it that way. And I
have a specific focus, but this specific focus is easily transferable by
all of you into every other area of your lives as well.

I&rsquo;ve set up the work that Paul and I are doing together with all
of you, I have set it up on a Gift basis, not a transactional basis. Not
one of you can get what we&rsquo;re giving by paying for it. And not one
of you will be deprived of what we&rsquo;re giving if you can&rsquo;t
pay for it, because it is not transactional. It is a Gift of Love.

Now, it&rsquo;s easy for you to comprehend that I might be extending it
because it&rsquo;s Love with no strings attached, that it is an Act of
Love. But I&rsquo;ve got to make it very clear. If you aren&rsquo;t
recognizing that this extension of mine is happening because Paul is
equally engaging in the Extension of Love, you&rsquo;re missing
something essential. Paul is not in this to get. He&rsquo;s in it
because he cares. He&rsquo;s in it and he engages in the extension
because, in this one area, he is perfectly willing to be nothing other
than the Presence of Love extending. Now that&rsquo;s the fact. In this
respect he stands with me; not behind me, but with me. And he engages in
it flawlessly.

Now, others observing him, coming from the getting place which is deeply
ingrained in their psyche, you might say, because they are so completely
committed to it, might look at Paul and say, &ldquo;He&rsquo;s got
something up his sleeve.&rdquo; They might look at him with distrust.
&ldquo;Well he has hidden motives. No one would be that stupid. No one
would be that foolish.&rdquo; Well he is. [single audience laugh]

And I&rsquo;m encouraging every one of you to become that foolish.
Foolish enough not to abandon all common sense and go off into the wild
blue yonder, but to be foolish enough to abandon the deeply ingrained
habit of control for the sake of self-preservation, and instead,
literally, and as consistently as possible, with as much commitment as
possible, go within to that Place of Excellence which is the Holy Spirit
which is nothing more than your Right Mind, and be spontaneously without
a plan. Plans are there to keep you safe. No.

I&rsquo;m encouraging all of you to do exactly what I&rsquo;m doing and
exactly what Paul is doing. Dare to find that Place of Excellence in You
where the Experience of Love emerges in you as you, and naturally seeks
expression or extension toward an object of your affection, to someone
or many ones that it&rsquo;s your desire to care about, and to limit
your expression of yourself to actions and words and behaviors that
stand in support of everything that is excellent about everyone else
that you come in contact with.

Now I am aware that when I say that the fundamental step of waking up is
the abandonment of transactional relationships, is the abandonment of
self-protection, is the abandonment of control, it&rsquo;s very hard to
hear. It&rsquo;s very hard to hear. It&rsquo;s very hard to let it
register. And yet, it literally is the act of separate self-protection
that keeps you bound in what you call the human condition, which is a
suffering condition, a stressful condition full of strife, full of
overcoming, full of battle.

Now, I don&rsquo;t like calling it quote &ldquo;the work that we
do&rdquo; unquote, Paul and I, but this activity, this Movement of the
Extension of Love that we are engaged in is valuable. Is it arrogance
for me to say that? No. It&rsquo;s important for me to say it because
it&rsquo;s important for you to know that if you&rsquo;re willing to
abandon self-protection and engage in defenseless Extension of Love,
that what you will be doing will be valuable as well. You see? It
won&rsquo;t be just a crazy thing that an eccentric person does. It will
be valuable.

Now I could say that it will be valuable because you&rsquo;re not
standing in the way of God&rsquo;s Self-Expression, and that would be
true. But more than anything, it would be… it is valuable because when
you engage with your Brothers and Sisters in this fashion, it changes
the tone of the human experience. And it changes the tone of the human
experience by bringing forth and illuminating all that is excellent in
it. Period. It is valuable because it inspires a change of perception,
and therefore a change in behavior, and therefore a change of what is
embodied in families, in communities, in countries, in the world.

Now why am I bringing up? Where&rsquo;s the lab work here? Very simply,
the lab work is that we&rsquo;re at a potential turning point. We,
meaning myself, Paul, Susan, Chris, those involved in the extension of
this work, because support for the work is decreasing. Mind you,
it&rsquo;s an interesting phenomenon. Support, and I mean by that
financial support, is decreasing while interest in the materials is
increasing. Gratitude for the materials is increasing. And it
doesn&rsquo;t make sense, does it?

And here&rsquo;s the reason it doesn&rsquo;t make sense. When a gift is
given and received and valued, but gratitude isn&rsquo;t expressed, the
Gift of Love isn&rsquo;t fully actualized. What does it say in the first
chapter of Genesis, 31st verse? &ldquo;And God saw all that He had made,
and behold, it was very good.&rdquo; In other words, Mind observed Its
Creations and recognized Itself in It. In other words, for Creation to
have been complete, there had to be Self-recognition. There had to be
acknowledgement. Recognition by God of Himself in What He Was Being. And
I will tell you something. That&rsquo;s when Joy came into Being in the
Movement of Creation.

Now, you know, it&rsquo;s been suggested that if, indeed, I am the
Christ, why don&rsquo;t I just make a miracle so that Paul can win the
lottery, or a sudden, unexpected inheritance that will make him forever
self-sufficient? Well, because that&rsquo;s not the miracle I&rsquo;m
working on.

The miracle I&rsquo;m working on is that everyone recognizes the part
they play so that having received the Gift, and being in an ongoing,
constant receipt of ongoing Gifting, they abandon, you abandon, whoever
you are, the transactional basis for relating, and let two things
happen. One, recognize that if there is something that has great value
to you, it probably will have great value to others as well, and you
would like to support the availability and extension of what&rsquo;s of
value to you to them as well. And the other thing, which is almost more
essential, is to not slight Paul, or Susan, or Chris, in the recognition
of what they are doing, how it relates to you, and finding a way to
express gratitude as a consummation of the Movement of Love that you are
benefiting by, so that the Gift comes full circle.

Now, it&rsquo;s very easy for your ego to say, &ldquo;Well, that&rsquo;s
just a different form of transaction. I&rsquo;m still going to have to
pay for it.&rdquo; No, you&rsquo;re going to get it whether you pay for
it or not. And it&rsquo;s not going to be withheld from you if you
don&rsquo;t pay for it.

You know what it&rsquo;s going to cost you? Here&rsquo;s what it&rsquo;s
going to cost you. It&rsquo;s going to cost you your ability to remain
aloof and independent and not be an active participant in the Movement
of Love and Its Extension. Oh. You&rsquo;re going to have to be
involved. You&rsquo;re going to have to participate. But until you begin
to participate in the Movement of Love by recognizing It, acknowledging
It, and expressing gratitude for It, the Love doesn&rsquo;t become a
Singularity. It doesn&rsquo;t become a Wholeness. Just as Creation would
not have become a Singularity or a Wholeness if God had refused to
recognize Himself in Creation. That&rsquo;s where you begin to own Who
You Are and that you are inseparable from your Brothers and Sisters.
That&rsquo;s where you begin to recognize that transactional
relationships are a fraud that keep unity from happening, that keeps
unity from being experienced.

Now, practical brass tacks. There are three more days in the month. The
bills, which have yet to be paid and which are now late for this month,
amount to approximately $1,500.00. Part of that is for the telephone
lines which are responsible for carrying all this information to
everyone else via the Internet. That means every one of you who are
listening right now. If the bill isn&rsquo;t paid, the telephone company
turns off the line. Simple.

Well, some of you say, &ldquo;Paul maybe ought to handle the finances
better.&rdquo; Well let me ask you this. Let&rsquo;s be intelligent. If
there aren&rsquo;t enough finances to cover utilities, electricity,
telephone lines, and perhaps the mortgage, and as many of them are
getting paid as there is money for, where is there money left over to
mismanage?

Now the fact is, you see, and it is quite possible for One Who Is Fully
Awake to point your eyes and your attention in the direction of what is
practical, if you value what is happening here, and if I have set it up
so that the only way it can happen is on the basis of the Extension of
Love, on the basis of Gift, then if you value it, you better find out
what your part to play is in it, and recognize that you can&rsquo;t skip
over that one little point called gratitude and still have the full
Meaning of the Gift of Love actualized for you.

It is also unkind for those of you who have not been supporting, to
stand there as an observer and say, &ldquo;Mm. It&rsquo;s gonna to be
interesting to see how this works out. It&rsquo;s going to be
interesting to see how God takes care of this. It&rsquo;s gonna to be
interesting to see Paul and Susan twist and squirm as things get tighter
and tighter. Oh, of course, it&rsquo;s none of my business. You know,
it&rsquo;s all a gift anyway. So I accept the gift, and I appreciate the
gift, and I value the gift, and I even make copies of it and share it
with others, and so I am extending the gift.&rdquo; But all the while
you&rsquo;re letting Paul and Susan dangle and twist and squirm because
they&rsquo;ve made the commitment to make the Gift and follow my
directions, not to try to save their ass by getting control of the
situation, turning it into a transactional thing, and thereby forcing
you to say, &ldquo;Thank you,&rdquo; which isn&rsquo;t a &ldquo;Thank
you&rdquo; at all. It&rsquo;s just pure coercion and compliance.

What Paul and I are doing, and the others with us are extending, is not
only the Truth, but the opportunity to find out &hellip; for everyone
else to find out how they fit in, and to abandon the stance of the
independent observer of an interesting phenomena. Because the Love that
I am extending, which comes from the Father, has an Intent. And that
Intent is to cause you to realize once again the Truth about yourselves,
so that you might no longer experience quote &ldquo;the human
condition,&rdquo; so that it might be replaced with the Divine Conscious
Experience Of Being, so that suffering might be over forever, so that
struggle might be over forever.

So, the need is immediate at this end. And what I want everyone to see
is that the need is immediate for you as well. Are we just talking about
money? No. We&rsquo;re not talking about money at all. We&rsquo;re
talking about understanding the Nature of Love, the Way It Works, and
the fact that it&rsquo;s impossible for you to stand in receipt of Love
and then to extend It without being involved yourself.

&ldquo;Oh! I found this wonderful new material! Yeah. I am enjoying it
so much. Here, let me make a copy of it for you and you pass it
on.&rdquo; That&rsquo;s not involvement. That is not where you have come
to a place within yourself where you&rsquo;ve had to examine what degree
you are going to participate by acknowledging the fount, if you will,
the place where it&rsquo;s coming forth, and seeing to it that the place
where it is coming forth does not become blocked, does not become
inhibited, so that not only do you stand in receipt of the Gift, you
nurture the place where it&rsquo;s coming forth by valuing it as much as
the Gift and saying &ldquo;Thank you&rdquo; in the form that keeps the
flow unblocked.

Now the fact is that if the recognition of the truth of what I&rsquo;ve
been saying does not occur, there will within the next two months have
to be a change of form. The change of form is going to mean a cutting
back of what is presently being done. And what is presently being done
is minimal. The only extension there is at the moment is via the
Internet. There is no way to provide audio tapes, or CDs, or books, or
newsletters through regular mails to those who don&rsquo;t have
computers. The next step is to delete the one form of extension that
still exists. So you see, the immediacy of the need in Kingston is the
immediacy of your need, not because anyone is going to withhold it, but
because the means of extending it no longer exists because it
couldn&rsquo;t be paid for.

But once again, if you say, &ldquo;Well, I&rsquo;m going to call them up
and see if I can arrange to pay for it,&rdquo; ask them, &ldquo;If I
send you ten dollars, will you send me such-and-such because then
you&rsquo;ll be able to go out and buy a couple of cassettes, empty
blank cassettes and record them, and pay for the postage?&rdquo; No. You
can&rsquo;t do that. You have to participate and cooperate with, you
have to participate in and cooperate with the Nature of the Movement of
Love which is not transactional and has as Its basis giving to an object
of affection.

If this premise for this work is altered from that, I promise you that
awakening will be protracted because there will be a complete missing of
the point; a complete missing of the point that will trigger the
&ldquo;Aha!&rdquo; in your mind, the realization of everything that we
have been talking about as we have been going through the Course. What
I&rsquo;m talking about is the embodying of a Singularity, rather than
embodying what divides it. &ldquo;To have, give all to all.&rdquo; Not,
&ldquo;To have, get all you can for the least you can give.&rdquo; It is
a simple principle.

&ldquo;Oh,&rdquo; I hear someone saying, &ldquo;Well, Paul
wouldn&rsquo;t be having these problems, these situations wouldn&rsquo;t
be coming up if Paul were doing something better. There must be some
block in his mind. There must be something hidden from his dark past
[amused laugh] that he&rsquo;s unwilling to release.&rdquo; Well you
know what? The one thing Paul can&rsquo;t do for you is thank himself.
And for many of you, that&rsquo;s the one thing you&rsquo;re not doing.

Okay. Course in Miracles 101A lab session over. Let&rsquo;s go to the
book.

And for those of you who may be listening for the first time, I am
reading from the Course as it was finished by Bill Thetford, and so you
will notice differences if you are reading from the first or second
editions. The first thing you&rsquo;ll notice is that the title of the
chapter is not the same. The title is:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*The Consistency of the Kingdom*[^1]
</div>

And again, just as a reminder. If you&rsquo;re in the first edition,
it&rsquo;s page 104. If you&rsquo;re in the second edition, it&rsquo;s
page 112. And if you&rsquo;re in the Sparkly edition, it&rsquo;s page
141.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*The Consistency of the Kingdom*
</div>

Hmm. Sounds a little bit like the Singularity of the Kingdom.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The creative power of both God and His creations is limitless, but they
are not in reciprocal relationship. You DO communicate fully with God,
as He does with you. This is an ongoing process in which you share, and
BECAUSE you share it, you are inspired to create LIKE God.
</div>

Inspired. To have, give all to all. Hopefully, you are inspired to
embody that because that&rsquo;s the way God creates.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet in creation you are not in a reciprocal relation to God, since He
created YOU, but You did NOT create Him. We have already said that only
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; ONLY &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; in this respect your creative power differs from His. Even in
this world there is a parallel. Parents give birth to children, but
children do not give birth to parents. They DO, however, give birth to
THEIR children and thus give birth AS their parents do.

If you created God and He created you, the Kingdom could not increase
through its own creative thought. Creation would therefore be limited,
and you would not be co-creators with God.
</div>

In other words, Creation wouldn&rsquo;t be the Eternal Movement of the
Mind of God that never stops to repeat Itself, because it would be in a
closed loop. That&rsquo;s the best way I can put it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As God&rsquo;s creative Thought proceeds from Him to you, so must your
creative thought proceed from you to YOUR creations. Only in this way
can all creative power extend outward.
</div>

To have, give all to all. Extend it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God&rsquo;s accomplishments are not yours, but yours are LIKE His. HE
created the Sonship, and you INCREASE it.
</div>

And in a way, we&rsquo;ve been talking about that today. You increase it
by participating in a Singularity where you don&rsquo;t hold yourself
separate from your Brothers and Sisters, and you recognize that they are
essential to your Wholeness, and you to theirs. And you let that,
I&rsquo;m going to say, merging occur in your mind, so that you&rsquo;re
no longer holding a unique definition of yourself that separates you
specifically from everyone and everything else.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have the power to ADD to the Kingdom, but not to add to the CREATOR
of the Kingdom. You claim this power &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the power to add to the Kingdom.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; when you become vigilant only for God and His Kingdom. BY
ACCEPTING this power as yours, you have learned to be what you are.
</div>

Once again that&rsquo;s what we&rsquo;ve been talking about.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
BY ACCEPTING this power as yours, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; well, the moment you accept this power as yours, you&rsquo;ve
got to become involved with it. You can&rsquo;t say, like it&rsquo;s an
object, &ldquo;Oh! This power is mine. Isn&rsquo;t it pretty? It&rsquo;s
not too big and it&rsquo;s not too small. It fits in with everything
else wonderfully. Oh, isn&rsquo;t that wonderful?&rdquo; No. By
accepting this power as yours, you have learned what? To be What You
Are. That&rsquo;s involvement. That&rsquo;s being in a new way.
That&rsquo;s being from a new premise.

What You Are, with a capital &ldquo;A&rdquo;, isn&rsquo;t a definition.
It&rsquo;s what you be. It&rsquo;s what you be from the inside out.
It&rsquo;s you putting away childish things, and doing &hellip; and
being an adult. It&rsquo;s you being in a new way from a new premise.
It&rsquo;s you being different from what you were.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your creations belong in you, as you belong in God. You are part of God,
as your sons are part of His Sons. To create is to love.
</div>

And I am going to reverse that. To Love is to Create.

And what I&rsquo;ve been saying today is that what Paul and I are
engaged in as we let the Father&rsquo;s Love flow through in language
that can inspire and cause miracles to happen, sudden shifts of
perception, is the Movement of Creation Itself. And this Movement that
we are engaged in is your Function as well. And I&rsquo;m inviting you
constantly to find it in you, activate it in you, embody it in your
activities. And let your desire be single of purpose in valuing that so
much that you will do whatever it takes to abandon getting which keeps
you bound in ignorance, and replacing it with giving because you care
from the Place of Excellence in You.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Love extends outward simply because it cannot be contained.
</div>

Not so that it can get something. Not so that it can accomplish
something. Not so that it can provide safety for itself. Not so it can
control others. Love extends outward simply because being of the Nature
of Joy, it cannot be contained. And it&rsquo;s your Birthright to
experience the Meaning of That, and being the Flow of That, and being
illuminated by It yourself as you extend It to your Brothers and
Sisters.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Being limitless, IT DOES NOT STOP.
</div>

Like the energizer bunny [single audience chuckle], it keeps going, and
going, and going, and going!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Being limitless, IT DOES NOT STOP. It creates forever, but not in time.
God&rsquo;s creations have always been, because HE has always been. YOUR
creations have always been, because you can create only as God creates.
Eternity is yours because He created you eternal.
</div>

Okay. A little bit more practical spirituality. If He created you
Eternal, then you are Eternal. You don&rsquo;t have to do anything to
become Eternal. Right now you&rsquo;re Eternal. You don&rsquo;t think
you are. You don&rsquo;t behave like you are. But you are! Right now you
are Eternal.

If you would let that fact register with you that your Eternality is
already a fact, then you would begin to look at why on earth
you&rsquo;re indulging in birthing and dying, birthing and dying,
getting sick and getting well, getting sick and getting well. Why are
you creating these variations in something that&rsquo;s invariable? If
you&rsquo;re already Eternal, then setting aside death [brief laugh] is
really a non-event. You get that? If you&rsquo;re already Eternal,
setting aside death is already a non-event. The Ultimate is already
happening. The Kingdom of Heaven is the only thing going on. The
Infinite, Indivisible Movement of God called Creation is what you are
part of, what you are in, and what you are responsible for by virtue of
the fact that your Mind is the Mind of God, because God&rsquo;s Mind is
what He extended right where you are.

Now what this means is, if you would, imagine going to the store and
buying a puzzle where every single puzzle piece fit with every other
puzzle piece&mdash;every other puzzle piece. With that kind of a puzzle,
you could put all the pieces together with the square or rectangular
outline, and it could be a mess but everything fit together. No
recognizable picture, but all the pieces are there. They&rsquo;re not
recognizable because you chose to put them together without having a
recognition of what the picture really was of.

And what I&rsquo;m saying is that right now each one of you is the
Christ, the Direct Expression of God, God embodied, experiencing the
Kingdom of Heaven, the whole puzzle with every single part of the puzzle
there, no missing pieces, and rather than recognizing what the picture
is of, you, as the Christ, are putting the pieces together randomly, out
of order, and creating a jumble. And you don&rsquo;t have to do that
anymore. And you don&rsquo;t have to get another puzzle to have a better
picture. The Ultimate is happening at this very instant, and all of the
resources you have as the Presence of God embodied, you are using.
You&rsquo;re just using them unintelligently. Why? Because you&rsquo;ve
forgotten Who You Are.

Once it begins to register with you after I keep saying, &ldquo;Right
now you are the Christ; you are the Ultimate behaving as though
you&rsquo;re not and believing your behavior,&rdquo; once that registers
with you really, you&rsquo;ll have the intellectual justification for
saying, &ldquo;Wow! That means I have some capabilities that I&rsquo;m
using but I&rsquo;m using unwisely. And by damn it, I am really curious
to find out how to use them wisely. And I&rsquo;m delighted to find out
that I don&rsquo;t have to go out somewhere and purchase these
capacities, or involve myself in certain obediences so as to become
deserving of them. They&rsquo;re already here. I&rsquo;m already using
them. I&rsquo;m just using them unwisely. I&rsquo;m as complete and
whole as I need to be to wake up.&rdquo;

Once it registers with you that that&rsquo;s the case, you will begin to
use your mind in a new way. And you won&rsquo;t be engaging in waking up
as though you&rsquo;re the underdog, as though you&rsquo;re something
less than, that by certain practices is going to become more than and
different from what you were before. Your behavior will be different
because your premise will be different. But you know what? There
aren&rsquo;t any goodies you haven&rsquo;t already received. There
aren&rsquo;t any capacities that are not already fully functional in
you.

You really all are like set designers in a movie. And this particular
movie is a war movie, and so you design ancient buildings that are
demolished by war. You create brand-new ruins&mdash;brand-new
ruins&mdash;using all of the skill and all of the capability that you
would use to build a set depicting Heaven, depicting Love, depicting
Beauty. You&rsquo;ve all just become fascinated with creating
demoralizing sets. But you&rsquo;re the fully Christed Sons and
Daughters of God fascinated with that activity.

Again, I&rsquo;m going back &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To create is to love.
</div>

Or: To Love is to Create.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Love extends outward simply because it cannot be contained.
</div>

Extends outward from where? From the Altar. Remember that? The Altar
right in the middle of you, that Place of Excellence in You, that Place
where your right Mind is present and active and ready to fill you with
the Conscious Experience of Who You Truly Are.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Love extends outward simply because it cannot be contained. Being
limitless, IT DOES NOT STOP. It creates forever, but not in time.
God&rsquo;s creations have always been, because HE has always been. YOUR
creations have always been, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; mind you, it&rsquo;s not talking about your ego&rsquo;s
creations. The Creations, the Movements of Love that you have engaged
in, in spite of your ego, &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; have always been, because you can create only as God creates.
Eternity is yours because He created you eternal.
</div>

The Ultimate is because there is nothing else. And as I&rsquo;ve said
before, you are neither behind the Point of Perfection, nor advancing
towards it; it is at that point; you are at that point and you must
understand yourself there from.

And I&rsquo;ll tell you something. Leaving operating system number
one&mdash;the system of getting&mdash;and abandoning it for giving,
because that&rsquo;s the only way you can have, is the one intent that
you can engage in that will quickly bring to the focus of your awareness
all of the things that keep you asleep, making it easy for you to
identify them and abandon them, instead of re-energizing them. Remember
that you are at this moment the Ultimate. You are at this moment exactly
What God Is Being right where you are. You are the Fullness of God right
now.

Less confusingly, the Fullness of What God Is right there where you are
is All That Is Real about you, and it is the Wholeness of What Is Real
about you. Accept that premise, and let everything follow from that
premise, and you will stop wasting your time building brand-new ruins
and reinforcing old, useless, mental habits and concepts. And when you
stop reinforcing the old habits, the natural, spontaneous Movement of
Creation, the Movement of the Presence of God will have a fair chance of
registering with you. And you will begin to find your experience
reflecting the phrase, &ldquo;Behold, I make all things new.&rdquo;

So, you want to hear the depressing news? The depressing news is
there&rsquo;s nowhere for you to go. The depressing news is that
there&rsquo;s nothing new for you to get. The depressing news is that
you don&rsquo;t lack anything essential for your Awakening. Why is that
depressing? [small laugh] Because you no longer have an excuse for not
waking up because you haven&rsquo;t refined your soul enough yet, or you
haven&rsquo;t gotten to that point of development yet. You don&rsquo;t
have that excuse. It&rsquo;s depressing because it means you&rsquo;ve
sort of got to take hold of What&rsquo;s True about you and start
behaving as though it&rsquo;s True about you, and then believing it as
you see the evidence of the Truth of it. But that&rsquo;s the wonderful
news! The depressing news is the wonderful news, because it means that
none of the ridiculous, silly, excuses you have been using for staying
stuck will be meaningful to you anymore. And when they&rsquo;re not
meaningful to you, you will let them go.

So, don&rsquo;t let your spirituality be irrelevant to your daily life
and your relationships with each other.

I love you enough not to let you be satisfied in your stupid rest.
[single audience laugh] I am just loving you. There is a wonderful
Singularity. I don&rsquo;t want that word to become monotonous, but
there is a wonderful unity this evening, a Unity of Conscious Awareness,
and the Movement continues. And I look forward to being with you next
week.

[^1]: T7.0 Introduction

