---
title: Apr 11, 2004
ref: "T7.3 The Unified Curriculum"
alink: "/acim/text/07/chap0703/"
---

Good afternoon. And welcome to everyone who is joining us on the
Internet as well.

Dare I say Happy Easter? Happy Resurrection Day. [small laugh] Happy
Resurrection Day as long as it&rsquo;s my Resurrection you&rsquo;re
talking about. [chuckling] Woe unto you who is about to engage in
Resurrection. [laughing] Whew! And yet, the beginning of it lies in
shifting from the principle of getting to the principle of giving, of
extending. One of the reasons this seems daunting&mdash;I am speaking of
Awakening or Resurrection&mdash;is the fact that you have to also shift
from privacy to openness. And if you will give some attention to it,
you&rsquo;ll find that it&rsquo;s in the privacy that you hold that you
store all of your secrets, all of the secrets that are the truth about
you, or what you think the truth about you is.

How many of you have bought a pair of sunglasses that have a mirrored
surface so that you can see everything, but no one can see what
you&rsquo;re looking at? It&rsquo;s different from wearing regular
sunglasses, because knowing that no one can see what you&rsquo;re
looking at, you look at things you wouldn&rsquo;t look at if you thought
someone could see what you were looking at. And the activity of looking
is an expression of what you really want to be looking at. [an audience
laugh] And so in your privacy, you can be honestly yourself. You see
what I&rsquo;m driving at?

We&rsquo;ve talked about the fact that whatever you believe, you
project. That&rsquo;s from the ego standpoint. The fact is that whatever
you Are, with a capital &ldquo;A&rdquo;, you extend. So, whether
you&rsquo;re Awake, or whether you&rsquo;re caught in a sense of private
self-hood, you can&rsquo;t escape the Law. You can&rsquo;t escape the
way it works. Even in your imagined privacy, you still teach what you
think you are. And there are no secrets. And this is extremely important
to understand, because if you realize that you&rsquo;re always teaching,
that you are always broadcasting what you are, whether it&rsquo;s a
belief about yourself, or whether it&rsquo;s the Truth about Yourself,
it will be easier for you to see that in order to wake up, it is once
again just a shift of emphasis. It isn&rsquo;t that you&rsquo;re
actually going to have to learn something utterly new.

You might say that it&rsquo;s a matter of realizing that any privacy you
thought you had is just an idea in your mind, which you can abandon in
favor of realizing that you are utterly and infinitely joined with
everything that exists, and that communication is occurring constantly
in both directions, not just from you to everything and everyone else.
Every thing and everyone else is likewise teaching. And everything is
either teaching about God, or it&rsquo;s teaching about whatever
personal concepts are being embraced at the time.

If you will simply realize that there are no private thoughts, literally
there is nothing private going on anywhere&mdash;anywhere&mdash;if you
will realize that and if you will dare to honor it, instead of trying to
fool yourself even more completely, you will begin to behave in a new
way. You will begin to monitor yourself, because you really don&rsquo;t
want to be introducing into the picture conflict. You really don&rsquo;t
want to be introducing fear, suspicion, doubt in everyone else.

I&rsquo;ve mentioned in the last two get-togethers that you are neither
behind the Point of Perfection, nor advancing toward it; you are at that
Point and must understand yourself there from. You must begin to
conceive of yourself from a Place of Ultimacy, so that you might be open
to the inspiration, the revelation, of what that You is that is at that
Point. If you are at that Point, then whatever limitations you seem to
be experiencing at the moment can&rsquo;t be legitimate. If
they&rsquo;re not legitimate, something else is. And that will spur your
curiosity to inquire, &ldquo;What freedom is mine that I&rsquo;m not
experiencing at the moment? What freedom is already mine at this very
moment which I simply haven&rsquo;t taken the occasion to grasp hold of
and experience?&rdquo;

You want to know something? The moment you actually abandon this sense
of privacy that you think you have been able to create, first of all,
what will happen is that all the little bits of who you are that
you&rsquo;ve hidden inside this privacy, will for the most part no
longer be found to be of value to you. Secondly, you will be in a
position of discovering that you and your Brothers and Sisters are all
just like each other, aside from the little bits of specialness that you
created about yourself and then hid in the privacy, in the secrecy. You
see? And when there&rsquo;s no longer anything special about you,
you&rsquo;ll be able to see there&rsquo;s nothing special about anyone
else, and it will be easier to love them. It will be easier for your
Natural Divine Function to come into play. Why? Because you won&rsquo;t
be busy protecting these secret little bits of specialness about you
that you&rsquo;re keeping from everyone else. You see?

Okay, let&rsquo;s go to the book.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Those who are against freedom believe that its outcome will HURT them,
which CANNOT be true. [^1]
</div>

Interesting. Why do you all keep these little bits of specialness hidden
away in privacy? Because they give you a sense of control. As long as
you have them, you aren&rsquo;t utterly predictable and others
can&rsquo;t peg you &lsquo;cause you know they don&rsquo;t have the full
story. And that means you constantly have available to you the means to
throw everyone else off balance. But you know what? You end up having to
maintain these little secret bits of self-definition, and you have to
utilize them to make sure that no one thinks you&rsquo;re just like
them. And in this preoccupation, you have lost freedom. You have lost
freedom to be. You&rsquo;ve lost freedom to be new.

You know, there was a time when the printing press came along and they
tried to keep it, they tried to ban it, because if everybody could have
the written word, mm, the &ldquo;dispensers of truth&rdquo; would lose
their control. Freedom was dangerous. Freedom of everyone to read was
dangerous. It was even thought that perhaps freedom for everyone to vote
was dangerous. So you see freedom can be perceived as a dangerous thing.
And most of all, for each of you, freedom means the loss of control, and
every single one of you knows that you do not want to lose control. And
like I said last week, that&rsquo;s like saying, &ldquo;I want to ride
my bicycle with training wheels.&rdquo; And that&rsquo;s not freedom.

So, again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Those who are against freedom &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; And all of you are &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; believe that its outcome will HURT them, which CANNOT be true.
But those who are FOR freedom, even if they are misguided in how to
defend it, are siding with the one thing in this world which IS true.
</div>

You see, whether you&rsquo;re awake or whether you&rsquo;re dreaming
dreams, freedom is the one thing that is True.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Whenever anyone can listen fairly to both sides of ANY issue&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and mind you, the key word is &ldquo;fairly.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Whenever anyone can listen fairly to both sides of ANY issue, he will
make the right decision. This is because he HAS the answer.
</div>

Why does he have the answer? Because he is able to listen fairly,
without any bias.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Conflict can SEEM to be interpersonal, but it MUST be intrapersonal
first.
</div>

Sounds complicated, but it&rsquo;s simple. You always think that
conflict is something that goes on between two people (interpersonal),
but the conflict must be intrapersonal first, which means it must be
something you have defined within yourself. You must say what is going
on is conflict. &ldquo;I have determined that what is going on is
conflict.&rdquo; And then you project it out there and it becomes
interpersonal.

One who is, however, coming from the Place of Excellence within himself,
one who is listening for the Holy Spirit, will not see conflict in what
is occurring. They may see Love, and the call for Love. That&rsquo;s not
conflict. So you see the difference? If you see conflict out there, you
may rest assured you&rsquo;re looking at what&rsquo;s going on all by
yourself, and you have made a determination in your mind about what is
going on. And if you have determined that this is conflict, then you are
misled and you will project it and try to deal with it as though your
initial determination as to what was going on has nothing to do with its
correction. You see?

And at the bottom line, no correction can occur when you don&rsquo;t
realize the part you played in the initial definition that you gave to
the circumstances. When you make the definition yourself and see
conflict, you have abandoned your ability to see things fairly from both
sides. There&rsquo;s only one place you can see things fairly from both
sides, and that&rsquo;s not from either one of the sides. That&rsquo;s
from the Place of Excellence in you where the Voice for Truth can be
heard and respond because it sees Love and a call for Love, or two calls
for Love, and recognizes that the answer is Love.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The term &ldquo;intrapersonal&rdquo; is an ego term, because
&ldquo;personal&rdquo; implies &ldquo;of ONE person,&rdquo; and NOT of
others.
</div>

Do you see? That&rsquo;s a false picture because there&rsquo;s no such
thing as one person alone. You are inseparable from every other one of
your Brothers and Sisters. So any time that you think that you have a
capacity to have a private thought of your own, a private determination
of your own, you are deluded. If you&rsquo;re going to have an
interpretation, it&rsquo;s going to be infinitely public. And you are
going to teach it, whether you want to teach it or not, because what you
believe, you project, just as truly as what you are, you extend.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&ldquo;Interpersonal&rdquo; has a similar error, in that it refers to
something that exists among different or SEPARATE people. When we spoke
before of the extremely PERSONAL nature of revelation, we followed this
statement immediately with a description of the inevitable outcomes of
the revelation in terms of SHARING.
</div>

Sharing is extension, not projection.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
A person conceives of himself as separate largely because he perceives
OF himself as bounded by a body.
</div>

You see, this is the old habit. &ldquo;You are what you see,&rdquo;
instead of, &ldquo;You are what you&rsquo;re seeing with.&rdquo; It is
always this habit of overlooking the one essential point. Where is this
perception of yourself as a body going on? It&rsquo;s going on in your
Mind. Therefore, Mind is what you are. Not only that, you&rsquo;re not a
private mind. Mind is infinite, all-inclusive. Right now you&rsquo;re
blocking yourself off from your all-inclusiveness by virtue of
determining that you are a body, that you are therefore separate, that
your mind is a matter of electrical currents in your brain, and
therefore are as private as your body is and as separate from everything
else as your body is. And you&rsquo;re believing that with commitment.
And I&rsquo;m here to tell you repeatedly that this is not true. Your
body and All of Creation is being experienced in your Mind. Your Mind
which has no boundaries is the ground of your Being, not your body. Your
Mind is the definition of your Being, not your body.

So, again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
A person conceives of himself as separate largely because he perceives
OF himself as bounded by a body. ONLY if he perceives himself as a MIND
can this be overcome.
</div>

Isn&rsquo;t it amazing that this is not in the second and third editions
of the Course?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
ONLY if he perceives himself as a MIND can this be overcome. Then he is
free to use terms like &ldquo;intramental&rdquo; and
&ldquo;intermental&rdquo; WITHOUT seeing them as different or
conflicting because minds CAN be in perfect accord.
</div>

Now, that statement, &ldquo;minds can be in perfect accord,&rdquo; is to
some degree an accommodation to your still somewhat private sense of
yourselves. And it is helpful for you to see that minds, if they really
are at all separate, can be of one accord. It&rsquo;s important for you
to be able to see that that&rsquo;s true, so that you might lend
yourself to be more in accord with your Brothers and Sisters as long as
you&rsquo;re still seeing yourself as separate. But ultimately, minds
are in perfect accord because Mind is a Singularity that can&rsquo;t
actually be divided, and therefore isn&rsquo;t actually divided.
You&rsquo;re just not experiencing Its Indivisibility or utter Oneness,
because you still are caught in the sense of self as being separate
because you thought you were your body.

And you&rsquo;ve become quite accustomed to reasoning everything out and
thinking everything through on this false basis that you are independent
and separate from each other, when you&rsquo;re not. So part of seeing
that you&rsquo;re neither behind the Point of Perfection nor advancing
toward it and that you&rsquo;re at that Point and must understand
yourself there from, part of the understanding yourself there from is to
consider the possibility that there is no privacy, and that you are not
separate, and that you are Mind in which all experience of body and
bodies and world and universe is going on. And that the Mind or
Intelligence that every other thing embodies is likewise not a separate
discrete mind, but is inseparable from this One Mind that you are that
includes them, which means that those Minds include you, which means
there is only One Mind.

So you see, this brings it back into the Singularity of Creation, the
Singularity of Being. And all of this is part of Resurrection. All of
this is part of Ascension&mdash;yours. It&rsquo;s abandoning the sense
of privacy. It&rsquo;s letting go of all the little nonsensical secrets
that made you special, so that you might discover that you&rsquo;re just
like everyone else, except that you and everyone else are so much more
than you conceived of in this fantasy of tiny private selfhood.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
OUTSIDE the Kingdom, the law which prevails INSIDE it is adapted to
&ldquo;what you project you BELIEVE.&rdquo;
</div>

And of course, the Law which prevails inside it is, &ldquo;What you are,
you extend.&rdquo; Like Joy, it just keeps bubbling over. It just keeps
going, and going, and going, not because direction has been provided to
it, but because it Itself is expansive and uncontainable.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
OUTSIDE the Kingdom, the law which prevails INSIDE it is adapted to
&ldquo;what you project you BELIEVE.&rdquo; This is its TEACHING form,
since outside the Kingdom teaching is mandatory because LEARNING is
essential.
</div>

Well, outside the Kingdom, outside of your right Mind, inside of your
tiny fantasy, you have excluded the majority of Creation and you have
excluded from yourself your Infinite Experience, your Infinite Singular
Experience of it all. And so there is a whole lot that isn&rsquo;t
available to you that you must let back in little, by little, by little.
As little as possible. And so you seem to learn again of Creation, learn
again of Reality. You see? So outside the Kingdom, teaching seems to be
mandatory because learning is essential.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This form of the law clearly implies that you will learn what YOU are
from what you have projected onto others, and therefore believe THEY
are. IN the Kingdom there is no teaching OR learning because there is no
BELIEF.
</div>

What is a belief? It&rsquo;s something you made-up.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is only CERTAINTY. God and His Sons, in the surety of being, KNOW
that what you project you ARE.
</div>

That&rsquo;s another way of saying, &ldquo;What you are, you
extend.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
That form of the law is not adapted at all&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; is not adapted at all &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; being the Law of Creation.
</div>

Listen to this &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God Himself created the law by creating BY it.
</div>

In other words, God didn&rsquo;t sit down in the midst of the process of
Creation and say, &ldquo;Okay, today is the day I make up all the Laws
by which Creation will work,&rdquo; and He lists the 10,001 Laws that
will govern Creation. No. Mind, with a capital &ldquo;M&rdquo;, moved.
And the Movement was experienced by Mind, and Mind recognized Itself in
the Movement. And because Mind was a Singularity incapable of conflict
or difference, everything that Mind recognized Itself in embodied
Perfect Harmony. It therefore obviously exists according to Principles.
But the Principles were inherent in the Singularity of God, and
didn&rsquo;t have to be defined, did not have to be set forth as
precepts or as rules. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God Himself created the law by creating BY it.
</div>

The Laws are the Principles that are inherent in any Singularity that
moves. Now don&rsquo;t be misled. There can&rsquo;t be a lot of
Singularities. If, or when, Singularity moves, there is Order to the
Movement because it is a Singularity incapable of conflict or
differentiation. You see?

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
And His Sons, who create like Him, follow it gladly, knowing that the
increase of the Kingdom depends on it, just as their own creation did.
</div>

So who are His Sons? Who are His Daughters? You. And if you&rsquo;re not
claiming a capacity to be independent, to have a point of view different
from the Father that would introduce difference, if you don&rsquo;t do
that, then the Harmony of the Singularity of the Movement of Mind
becomes your Conscious Experience and you see with Singularity. That is
when your eye is single. It&rsquo;s also when your capital
&ldquo;I&rdquo; is single; single and therefore inseparable from every
single one of your Brothers and Sisters.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Laws must be communicated if they are to be helpful.
</div>

Well that statement only has meaning for those who are currently in a
state of private selfhood. When you are Awake, Laws are not
communicated; they are embodied spontaneously, because there&rsquo;s not
a separate will to act at odds with them. But while you&rsquo;re having
your dream, your fantasy of separate selfhood, Laws must be communicated
if they are to be helpful.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In effect, they must be TRANSLATED for those who speak a different
language.
</div>

Well, the moment you said, &ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;d rather see things my
way. Father, I&rsquo;d rather define everything myself.&rdquo;, you
started using a new language. And so, God&rsquo;s Laws, the Laws of the
Singularity of Being, must be translated to you and put in the language
you&rsquo;re currently using&mdash;no matter how flawed it is, the
language you&rsquo;re using. And that&rsquo;s what I&rsquo;m doing. And
that&rsquo;s what the Course is doing. And that is what happens when you
decide to go within and inquire of that Place of Excellence in you, the
Altar, &ldquo;What is the Truth here?&rdquo;

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Nevertheless, a good translator, although he must alter the FORM of what
he translates, NEVER changes the meaning. In fact, his whole purpose is
to change the form SO THAT the original meaning is retained.
</div>

So the Holy Spirit, in working with each of you, takes the Divine
Meaning and translates it into the rather flexible and rather
unintelligent language form you all are using and does it in a way that
its original Meaning is retained.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit is the TRANSLATOR of the Laws of God to those who do NOT
understand them. You could not do this yourselves because conflicted
minds CANNOT be faithful to one meaning, and will therefore CHANGE THE
MEANING TO PRESERVE THE FORM.
</div>

You know, even as you listen to me, or even as you read the Course on
your own, you&rsquo;re always measuring what you&rsquo;re reading, or
what you&rsquo;re hearing, according to your current definitions of
yourselves, the current images you&rsquo;re holding of yourselves, the
particular form in which you identify yourself. And you tend to alter
what I&rsquo;m saying, or what the Course is meaning, so that it
doesn&rsquo;t violate your current image of yourself too much. You want
it to confirm the image you have made of yourselves which you idolize.
Fortunately the Course doesn&rsquo;t address just your egos, but
addresses the Christ that each one of you is. And so, it transforms you,
you might say, behind your ego&rsquo;s back. And it does promote your
becoming freed from elements of your self-image that are keeping you
unconscious of your Birthright.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit&rsquo;s purpose in translating is naturally EXACTLY the
opposite.
</div>

Meaning that it will not change the meaning to preserve the form.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit&rsquo;s purpose in translating is naturally EXACTLY the
opposite. He translates only to PRESERVE the original meaning in ALL
respects and in ALL languages. Therefore, He opposes differences in form
as meaningful, emphasizing always that THESE DIFFERENCES DO NOT MATTER.
</div>

You see? The Holy Spirit says, &ldquo;Love is all,&rdquo; to an
accountant, and the accountant says, &ldquo;Oh, I understand that. I
understand the way in which that applies to business practices.&rdquo;
And the Holy Spirit says the same thing to an artist, and the artist
says, &ldquo;Oh, I understand that. I understand the way that applies to
the formless coming into form.&rdquo; And yet, the artist and the
accountant, if they were to talk to each other, would think that neither
one of them understood what the statement meant, because the accountant
and the artist both biased what they were hearing so that it would fit
their particular current self-definition.

Now one thing should be becoming very clear over the last couple of
weeks. And that is that the Holy Spirit has a Mission, has a Function,
and it&rsquo;s far from passive. It&rsquo;s dynamic. And Its Purpose is
to wake you up. Its Purpose is to disclose Itself to you as your right
Mind. Its Purpose is to bring you back into your right Mind, which
ultimately means that its your fundamental Sanity talking to you in your
current insanity for the purpose of bringing you back into Integrity, so
that you can recognize Who You Really Are, and having recognized Who You
Really Are, be free to extend it spontaneously.

So do you see? This is not a matter of something outside of yourself
coercing you into a new frame of mind. It&rsquo;s your Self, with a
capital &ldquo;S&rdquo;, asserting itself on your behalf the moment you
will dare to let It in by inviting It and saying, &ldquo;I will not
continue to reinforce my independence. I will ask for help. And I will
let something else into my space beside my current best definition of
myself. I will stop hogging the space and filling it up with nothing
more than my best imaginations of what I am, and what I can become, and
how I can accomplish it.&rdquo;

Again, once you break the isolation from your capital &ldquo;S&rdquo;
Self, the Holy Spirit, you automatically diminish your isolation from
your Brothers and Sisters, because that&rsquo;s the Law. That&rsquo;s
the way it works. The moment you stop establishing secrecy, establishing
boundary, that which had been excluded will be present in your space.
It&rsquo;s simple.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The meaning of His message &hellip;
</div>

The Holy Spirit&rsquo;s message.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is ALWAYS the same, and ONLY the meaning matters. God&rsquo;s
Law of Creation in perfect form does not involve the USE of truth to
convince His Sons OF truth. The EXTENSION of truth, which IS the Law of
the Kingdom, rests only on the knowledge of what truth IS. This is your
inheritance &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what is? To know the Truth. To know What Truth Is.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is your inheritance and requires no learning at all, but when you
DISinherited yourselves, you BECAME learners.
</div>

Why did you become learners? Because what you disinherited, what you
disowned of yourself, remains there to be let back in. And because you
cannot successfully forever be independent, you will automatically and
unavoidably be in the position of constant confrontation by That of You
which you have disowned, saying, &ldquo;I am part of you. Let Me in! You
cannot succeed at this insanity because you are the Christ. Let Me in.
Let Me in. Let Me in.&rdquo; And so you are constantly and unavoidably
confronted with not only the opportunity, but the demand to learn, to
reaccept, to re-own that of yourself which you said that you&rsquo;d
rather temporarily do without. You see? What You Divinely Are that
you&rsquo;ve disowned is your inheritance and requires no learning at
all, but when you disinherited Yourselves, you became learners.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
No-one questions the intimate connection of learning and memory.
Learning is impossible WITHOUT memory since it cannot be consistent
UNLESS it is remembered. That is why the Holy Spirit IS a lesson in
remembering.
</div>

And remember this: Remembering is the calling back into Conscious
Awareness that which you have known before. But also, re-membering is to
include again. Instead of being dis-membered, you are re-membered, put
back together.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
That is why the Holy Spirit IS a lesson in remembering. We said before
that He teaches remembering and forgetting, but the forgetting aspect is
only TO MAKE THE REMEMBERING CONSISTENT.
</div>

The forgetting has only to do with the letting go of that which
doesn&rsquo;t fit, the letting go of that which isn&rsquo;t Real.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You forget in order to REMEMBER BETTER.
</div>

You, when you forget everything that you introduced into the picture
that distracted you from the Truth about yourself, suddenly you are able
to remember better because there&rsquo;s less distraction from the
Direct Experience of Yourself.

Referring to the Holy Spirit:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You will NOT understand His translations while you listen to two ways of
perceiving them. Therefore, you must forget, or relinquish, one to
UNDERSTAND the other.
</div>

Well, you only have two choices, two places to give your attention
to&mdash;the Voice for Truth, the voice for fear&mdash;right? Everything
I&rsquo;m doing and everything the Holy Spirit within you does is to
promote your forgetting, becoming a &hellip; to procrastinate listening
to the voice for fear.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is the only way you CAN learn consistency, so that you can finally
BE consistent.

What can the perfect consistency of the Kingdom mean to the confused?
</div>

Now this is not a rhetorical question or theoretical question. [laugh]
What can the perfect consistency of the Kingdom mean to you, the
confused?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is apparent that confusion INTERFERES with meaning, and therefore
PREVENTS THE LEARNER FROM APPRECIATING it. There is NO confusion in the
Kingdom, because there is only ONE meaning. This meaning comes from God
and IS God.
</div>

That&rsquo;s what you are&mdash;Meaning. It came from God and it is God,
right there where you are. That is What You Are. And there is no
confusion in you unless you believe what you see. And when you see a
body and you say, &ldquo;I am that,&rdquo; you become confused, because
you have forgotten that you are the Mind in which that body appears
along with all other forms, all other Aspects of Creation, that are
therefore part and parcel of What You Are as well.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This meaning comes from God and IS God. Because it is also YOU, you
share it and EXTEND it as your Creator did.
</div>

That&rsquo;s your Function. That&rsquo;s called glorifying God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This needs no translation because it is perfectly understood, but it
DOES need extension because it MEANS extension.
</div>

Just like Joy means overflowing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Communication is perfectly direct and perfectly united.
</div>

Really.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is totally without strain because nothing discordant EVER enters.
</div>

Now, mind you, we&rsquo;re talking about Resurrection. We&rsquo;re
talking about you coming into this kind of Conscious Experience; one
that is totally without strain because nothing discordant ever enters.
Why doesn&rsquo;t it ever enter? Because you neglect to employ a
capacity you thought you had to imagine something that doesn&rsquo;t
exist, and then by virtue of some power you think you have, make it
become real.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is totally without strain because nothing discordant EVER enters.
That is why it IS the Kingdom of God. It belongs to Him, and is
therefore LIKE Him. That is its reality, and nothing CAN assail it.
</div>

You see? It&rsquo;s only to a private, self-important, little ego that
it&rsquo;s insulting to say that the Kingdom belongs to God. Mm. Well,
if the Kingdom is infinite and it belongs to God, then obviously none of
it can belong to you. None of it can be your possession. You can&rsquo;t
accumulate a certain large portion of the Kingdom so that you can say,
&ldquo;I have more than you have,&rdquo; to your Brother, or Sister, and
get a sense of importance.

But again, it&rsquo;s when you acknowledge that it belongs to Him,
it&rsquo;s when you acknowledge that you belong to Him and can have no
independent importance, that you move back into this Singularity of
Being that we&rsquo;ve been talking about in which you once again
experience being Whole and no Aspect of Creation is outside of you,
different from you, or separate from you, and you are in an Infinite
Intimacy, an Infinite Connection, an Infinite Conscious Experience of
Meaning.

Now, if you&rsquo;ll just think about those words, if you&rsquo;ll just
abide with those words and let them percolate, you will be able to
conceive of the fact that what I&rsquo;m talking about is something far
more fulfilling than any of the definitions you&rsquo;ve given to
everything and the life you seem to be experiencing. Because what
I&rsquo;m talking about is that the loss of separate personhood is the
loss of a limitation that it&rsquo;s never been your Birthright to
experience. And therefore, it constitutes not a loss at all, but a gain.

And no, Robbie, I am not looking at you for any special reason.

Your greatest fear is that if you abandon yourself to God, you will lose
the experience of your value, that you will lose all experience of
meaningfulness. And I am trying to convey to you that what you&rsquo;re
experiencing in this specialness that you&rsquo;re hiding in the secret
privateness is empty of meaning by comparison with the Experience of
Meaning that you will let yourself into when you yield to God and
abandon this divorcement that you&rsquo;ve insisted upon.

Continuing. The subheading is:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*The Unified Curriculum*

To heal is to liberate totally.
</div>

Remember that I said that healing was shifting from bargaining to
extending, from getting to giving. It&rsquo;s not something that happens
out there, or even in the body. It&rsquo;s what happens in your mind.
The shift from tininess to Infinite Singularity.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To heal is to liberate totally.
</div>

Ah! Freedom!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
We once said there is no order of difficulty in miracles because they
are ALL maximal expressions of love.
</div>

A Singularity. I&rsquo;m adding.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This has no range at all.
</div>

A Singularity has no degrees, no divisions.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This has no range at all. The non-maximal only APPEARS to have a range.
This is because it SEEMS to be meaningful to measure it FROM the
maximum, and identify its position by HOW MUCH it is NOT there.
</div>

How far from the maximum it is. How much more refining of your soul
there is ahead of you which will therefore give your picture of
yourself, your image, more validity and more worth because you worked
for it.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Actually, this does not mean anything. It is like negative numbers in
that the concept can be used theoretically, but it has no application
practically. It is true that if you put three apples on the table and
then take them away, the three apples are not there. But it is NOT true
that the table is now MINUS three apples. If there is NOTHING on the
table, it does not matter what WAS there in terms of amount. The
&ldquo;nothing&rdquo; is neither greater nor less because of what is
absent.

That is why &ldquo;all&rdquo; and &ldquo;nothing&rdquo; are dichotomous,
WITHOUT a range. This is perfectly clear in considering psychological
tests of maximal performance. You cannot interpret the results AT ALL
unless you assume either MAXIMAL motivation or NO motivation at all.
Only in these two conditions can you validly compare responses, and you
MUST assume the former because, if the latter were true, the subject
would not do ANYTHING. Given VARIABLE motivation he WILL do something,
but YOU cannot understand WHAT IT IS.
</div>

How is that valuable? Its value lies in the fact that when you say that
you are this far away from Awakening, when you are this far away from
Resurrection or Ascension, and that therefore there is that amount of
distance for you to traverse, and that there is a certain amount of
worth that you will gain from traversing the distance, and that the
gaining of that worth is essential to your Awakening, it all means
nothing. No matter how reasonable you might be able to make it sound to
yourself or someone else, it&rsquo;s pure gibberish. This is why you
need the Holy Spirit. Because you can cause yourself to believe anything
you choose because you have no anchor in Truth. You can make anything
seem to be true to yourself at the moment. That&rsquo;s why you need
help.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The results of such tests are evaluated relatively ASSUMING maximal
motivation, but this is because we are dealing with ABILITIES, where
degree of development is meaningful. This does NOT mean that what the
ability is used FOR is necessarily either limited OR divided. Yet one
thing is certain; abilities are POTENTIALS for learning, and you will
apply them to what you WANT to learn.
</div>

Interesting &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; abilities are POTENTIALS for learning, and you will apply them
to what you WANT to learn.
</div>

Here&rsquo;s another point of self-honesty. You won&rsquo;t apply
yourself to what you don&rsquo;t want to learn. And you will apply
yourself to what you do want to learn. And no matter what it is you
don&rsquo;t want to learn, you will apply yourself to not learning it.
Which means that when another comes to teach you what you don&rsquo;t
want to learn, even though they can see that you are suffering from not
having learned it, their efforts will be fruitless. If you are not
learning, if ignorance is not being replaced with enlightenment or
greater understanding, there is no one to blame for it but you. Now a
better way of putting that is there is no one who can be responsible for
it except you. And the realization of that fact is the only thing that
will be empowering to you. It is the only thing that will lead to your
changing your mind and wanting to learn what you hadn&rsquo;t wanted to
learn.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Learning is EFFORT&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; it means replacing old habits. It means practicing skills that
you were ignorant of before. It means doing things that before you had
been too lazy to do.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Learning is EFFORT, and effort means WILL. We have used the term
&ldquo;abilities&rdquo; in the plural because abilities began with the
ego, which perceived them as POTENTIALS FOR EXCELLING. This is how the
ego STILL perceives them and uses them.

The ego does not WANT to teach everyone all it has learned, because that
would DEFEAT its purpose.
</div>

And so what it does not want to teach everyone, it keeps in that secret
place, that private place that makes you special, that makes you
different, and therefore unable to love your Brother, unable to care for
your Brother or Sister, unable to extend Love.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Therefore, it does not REALLY learn at all. The Holy Spirit teaches you
to use what the ego has made to teach the OPPOSITE of what the ego has
learned.
</div>

That&rsquo;s the purpose of translation.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit teaches you to use what the ego has made to teach the
OPPOSITE of what the ego has learned. The KIND of learning is as
irrelevant as is the particular ability which was applied TO the
learning. You could not have a better example of the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s
unified purpose than this course. The Holy Spirit has taken very
diversified areas of YOUR learning, and has applied them to a UNIFIED
curriculum. The fact that this was NOT the ego&rsquo;s reason for
learning is totally irrelevant.

YOU made the effort to learn, and the Holy Spirit has a unified goal for
ALL effort. He ADAPTS the ego&rsquo;s potentials for excelling to
potentials for EQUALIZING.
</div>

&ldquo;Ohhh! That means taking away the specialness! Equalizing. Ahh.
Horror of horrors. To be only equal. To be utterly equal. Ugh! To be
simply common.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; ADAPTS the ego&rsquo;s potentials for excelling to potentials
for EQUALIZING. This makes them USELESS for the ego&rsquo;s
purpose&hellip;

&hellip;but VERY useful for His.
{: .omit}
</div>

&hellip; so you see the ability has been taken and reapplied for
God&rsquo;s Purpose, which makes the ability useless for the ego&rsquo;s
purpose any longer.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If different abilities are applied long enough to one goal, the
abilities THEMSELVES become unified. This is because they are
channelized in one direction, or in one WAY. Ultimately, then, they all
contribute to ONE RESULT, and by so doing, their similarity rather than
their differences is emphasized.
</div>

You see how it&rsquo;s bringing it all back into a Singularity?

I want you to do a review, if you so wish, during this coming week of
the last ten or twelve pages, because I want you to see that although it
seems different subjects have been discussed, they are all illuminating
the Meaning of Singularity, Oneness, and therefore Wholeness, which
provides a new Definition of You for you to embrace, to abide with, that
corresponds more closely to the fact that you&rsquo;re neither behind
the Point of Perfection nor advancing toward it but you are at that
Point, and not only must understand yourself there from, but you can
understand yourself there from. And therefore, it&rsquo;s a reasonable
thing to give your attention to that, to give your curiosity to that,
with a little discipline. With a little definite content, or maybe even
a lot.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Ultimately, then, they all contribute to ONE RESULT, and by so doing,
their similarity rather than their differences is emphasized. You can
EXCEL in many DIFFERENT ways, but you can EQUALIZE in ONE WAY ONLY.
Equality is NOT a variable state, by definition.
</div>

Mm. There we come again; not a variable state. &ldquo;Oh, evenness.
Boring!&rdquo; I know, it&rsquo;s the surprises, it&rsquo;s the
unexpected which makes your life what? Hell. [audience laugh] Not
interesting. Ahh. You know what? It may be tantalizingly scary to try to
be independent, but I will tell you that it is infinitely fulfilling to
experience your Intimate Infinite Oneness with All of Creation in which
the incredible Divine Meaning that the Father is setting into place as
All of Creation is available to you to feel fully. Yes, I&rsquo;m
enticing you.

And like the child who&rsquo;s learning how to ride a bicycle and no one
can really explain to him what balance feels like, the words I use
don&rsquo;t come close to conveying to you what the experience is like.
But I can tell you and you can grasp the idea that once you take hold
and embrace the Singularity, all of this stimulating exciting lifestyle
that you have been engaged in will be experienced more like a mosquito
buzzing around by your ear when you&rsquo;re trying to go to sleep. Not
really anything consequential, not really anything significant, but just
this ongoing miniscule disturbance that&rsquo;s all consuming. And you
will wonder, you won&rsquo;t even think about it anymore, but you could
understand that you would wonder why on earth you found that so much
more worthy of your attention than experiencing your Self and your
Sanity, your Oneness with God, your Infinite Intimate Experience of the
Meaning of All Creation. You&rsquo;ll wonder why.

So, I want to leave you again with this thought, this point, to use as
your measuring stick or reference point. You are neither behind the
Point of Perfection nor advancing toward it; you are at that Point and
must understand yourself there from.

And I know you don&rsquo;t know what that&rsquo;s going to mean, but
have you lost all curiosity about potentially interesting things? And if
this is something that it costs you nothing to try, to explore, then
explore it. Well, I know, yeah. [little laugh] I&rsquo;m sorry, I
forgot. It&rsquo;s gonna cost you your independence. It&rsquo;s gonna
cost you control. It&rsquo;s gonna cost you the exhilarating experience
of fear. But I promise you, it won&rsquo;t cost you money. It
won&rsquo;t cost you money. [single audience laugh] And you know what?
If you&rsquo;re willing to look at what I am saying to you with a
minimum amount of honesty, you&rsquo;ll have to agree that if you were
to embody even a fraction of it, [laugh] everyone in your experience
would be blessed.

But, I&rsquo;m very well aware that you will not learn what you do not
want to learn. But you know what? I don&rsquo;t mind expressing the
Truth because it glorifies the Truth. It embodies the Truth. It puts the
Truth in the air. It sends out Messengers of Truth, and those Messengers
of Truth do come back to me, confirming the Truth about You. And
I&rsquo;m a happy camper.

I love you. Come out of your secret private closet and all of your
little bits of specialness and play with me. I will look forward to
being with you next week.

[^1]: T7.3 The Unified Curriculum

