---
title: Apr 18, 2004
ref: "T7.3 The Unified Curriculum"
alink: "/acim/text/07/chap0703/"
---

Good afternoon. And welcome to everyone who is joining us on the
Internet. I would like to add for those of you on the Internet who
participated in the Online Gathering yesterday, I enjoyed being with you
in that way and look forward to doing it again.

Okay. So we have been talking about the fact that Being, Creation, the
Movement of God is a Singularity, even though it is infinite and is an
infinite expression. God&rsquo;s Infinite Expression of Himself,
although experienced in multiplicity, is never a manifestation or
example of division. A little bit of God here that looks like a flower,
a little bit of God here that looks like a human being, a little bit of
God here that looks like a glass top on a table&mdash;each little bit of
God being different from every other little bit of God. God does not
express Himself infinitely by dividing Himself up into parts. So the
Infinite Expression of God expresses Singularity&mdash;the Singularity
of God.

This is important to understand. It means that every Aspect of Creation
has one task, has one thing to be, and that is to be that which reflects
its Source, to be that which glorifies that which is being it at that
moment. So you call it a glass. You call it a glass-topped table. You
call it a person. You call it a flower. But it&rsquo;s all God, God,
God, God. God. Do you see what I&rsquo;m saying?

Here&rsquo;s another way of putting it (and I&rsquo;ve said it before):
Everything you are looking at&mdash;the glass top on the table, the
glass mug, the flower, the person sitting across the room&mdash;is some
aspect of the Infinitude of your Being. It&rsquo;s all You. And
here&rsquo;s another helpful aspect. You aren&rsquo;t what you see.
You&rsquo;re what you&rsquo;re looking with. Therefore, You are Mind in
which glass top on a table, mug, flower, human being, is being
experienced. You are the Awareness that has no limits in which every
single Conscious Experience of Being is going on. Therefore, everything
you&rsquo;re experiencing is some part of You. It takes All of Creation
to complete You. Just be with that for a moment.

Without every Aspect of Creation, You would be incomplete. With just one
Aspect of Creation snuffed out, you would be less. It&rsquo;s all a
Singularity. It&rsquo;s all a Wholeness. And the Wholeness That God Is
that is called Creation Moving is What You Are, is what is embodied in
every single quote &ldquo;Aspect&rdquo; unquote of Creation. Therefore,
no Aspect of Creation can be at odds with any other Aspect of Creation.
They have &hellip; each Aspect has only one Function, and that is to
re-present &hellip; represent That Which Is Being It, the Will of That
Which Is Being It at that moment. And mind you, All of Creation is
brand-new in every moment, because nothing is going on at all without
God Being It&mdash;Being It, Being It, Being It&mdash;Being It New,
Being It New, Being It New, Being It New&mdash;Being It fresh and always
embodying only That Which God Is.

Now, you&rsquo;re to turn to the Altar within which is, for lack of
better words, the threshold of your connection with the Holy Spirit
which is nothing more than your right Mind. It&rsquo;s the threshold of
your right Mindedness. And I&rsquo;ve said, your right Mind, the Holy
Spirit, has one goal, and that is to help you remember how to do only
one thing, and that is to glorify God, to remember that your Function is
moment, by moment, by moment, by moment, to embody only What God Is
Being right there, right there, right there, now, now, now, now.

Now last week we ended up with this; it&rsquo;s the paragraph before the
one I said we would start on.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
YOU made the effort to learn, and the Holy Spirit has a unified goal for
ALL effort.[^1]
</div>

For any effort that you put forth in any direction.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the Holy Spirit has a unified goal for ALL effort. He ADAPTS
the ego&rsquo;s potentials for excelling to potentials for EQUALIZING.
This makes them USELESS for the ego&rsquo;s purpose, but VERY useful for
His. If different abilities are applied long enough to one goal&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; mind you, if different abilities, if multiple abilities
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; are applied long enough to one goal, the abilities THEMSELVES
become unified.
</div>

That makes sense.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is because they are channelized in one direction, or in one WAY.
Ultimately, then, they all contribute to ONE RESULT, and by so doing,
their similarity rather than their differences is emphasized.
</div>

Meaning the similarities of the multiple abilities, or different
abilities.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You can EXCEL in many DIFFERENT ways, but you can EQUALIZE in ONE WAY
ONLY. Equality is NOT a variable state, by definition.
</div>

Now, how could you equalize everything in your day, instead of seeing
differences? You know, you gotta get up. You gotta be the cook and fix
breakfast. You gotta be the mom and get the kids ready for school. You
gotta be the mom and get them off to school, and then you have to be the
accountant who gets in the car and gets to her job. And then she has to
be the supervisor managing her group. And then she has to be a human
being who stops and eats lunch; takes care of her nourishment. And then
she has to go back to being the supervisor. And then, at the end of the
work day, she becomes human being, mom, wife, all mixed together. On the
way home stopping at the grocery store to see that husband, children,
pets are cared for; their needs are cared for. Blah, blah, blah. So you
see, you have many different roles, you might say, that you fulfill
during the day. How can you equalize them? What does being an accountant
have to do with being a mother, or a wife, or a cook?

Well, it&rsquo;s easy. I&rsquo;m going to give you two prayers to start
your day out with and to remind yourself of throughout the day. The
first one is: I wish to see only the Evidence of Love. [repeating] I
wish to see only the Evidence of Love. I&rsquo;ll give you a moment to
write that down. [pause] Okay. And the second prayer is this: I wish to
be only the Evidence of Love. [repeating] I wish to be only the Evidence
of Love. Can you see that if you have these two prayers as your
conscious intent, it will unify your whole day. Mom, supervisor, human
being, wife, nurturer, driver on the freeway&mdash;all of these things
can be unified with your desire to see only the Evidence of Love, and
even more importantly, your desire to be only the Evidence of Love. If
you desire to be only the Evidence of Love, then that means your desire
is to embody What Love Really Is, which is God.

If you wish to see only the Evidence of Love, then the car in front of
you or the car behind you on the freeway, the grocery clerk, your
employee, your subordinate, your children, all become the focal point of
messengers you&rsquo;re sending out that are looking for the Evidence of
Love. It could even be one of your enemies. It can be somebody
who&rsquo;s been a very difficult individual in your life and continues
to be very difficult. But your intent is to see only the Evidence of
Love, so that is the messenger you will send out to everyone and
everything that you encounter in the day. That means you have a unified
intent, a singular intent, and the messengers that will come back to you
will confirm Singularity.

Now, if in addition to your wish to see only the Evidence of Love, you
desire to be only the Evidence of Love, you can see that that will unify
your behavior throughout the day, no matter what role you seem to be
called upon to fulfill as you go through the day. Now all of these
different seemingly disconnected things, roles&mdash;being an accountant
and a supervisor that are different from being a wife and a
cook&mdash;well the differences fade. The differences hold no
significance because every single action you engage in comes under the
heading of your desire to be only the Evidence of Love. You see? What I
have said is simple and understandable. And if you don&rsquo;t see it
yet, abide with it, please. Contemplate it, and ask for it to be
embellished for you, illuminated for you.

If you are going to end up experiencing the Singularity of Creation,
which is the unalterable fact of it, and thus escape from the apparent
experience of diversity of intents and purposes and diversity of nature
that you see all around you that makes life seem to be conflicted,
you&rsquo;re going to have to start using your mind differently; with
more Singularity. And you&rsquo;re going to have to withdraw your
investment in your confidence that indeed you live in a conflicted
world, because, as we&rsquo;ve been saying, whatever you&rsquo;re
confident about is what you&rsquo;re going to see. It&rsquo;s the lens
through which you are looking.

You all forget that you&rsquo;re looking through lenses. You look and
you say, &ldquo;Oh wow! The world is doing this. Oh wow! This is going
on in the world. Oh wow! Look what just happened out there.&rdquo; And
you completely forget that you&rsquo;re looking with something,
you&rsquo;re looking with attitude. If you&rsquo;re not in your peace,
you&rsquo;re looking with attitude. In fact, in New Jersey they say,
&ldquo;You gotta have attitude.&rdquo; If you&rsquo;re not in your
peace, you&rsquo;re looking with and through attitude, and attitude
governs your view. Attitude governs how you are going to see Reality.
And if you forget the part that your attitude plays, if you forget the
fact that you&rsquo;re looking through lenses, you will forget the part
you&rsquo;re playing in what you&rsquo;re seeing. And once you&rsquo;ve
lost sight of that, you have been dis-empowered, and you will be at the
mercy of what you are seeing, or at least you will believe you are.

To become empowered doesn&rsquo;t mean to regain force, the presence of
force in your world. To become empowered means to realize the part
you&rsquo;re playing in determining how you&rsquo;re seeing Reality, so
that you can withdraw the part you&rsquo;re playing. Get rid of the
lenses so that you&rsquo;re looking with innocent minds&mdash;minds
innocent, absent of preconceptions. That&rsquo;s the way your mind comes
back into Singularity. And as your mind becomes back into Singularity
and you&rsquo;re not sending out messengers looking for differences and
confirmations that the differences are real, you&rsquo;ll begin to find
that there are ways for you to be singularly, like desiring to see only
that which embodies Love and to be only that which embodies Love.

Remember none of what we&rsquo;re reading about here is theoretical.
It&rsquo;s all about you. It&rsquo;s all about Mind. And the very word
&ldquo;Miracles&rdquo; on the front [cover of the book] refers to what?
Sudden shifts of perception. Where? In your big toe? No, in your Mind.
Because Mind is a Singularity and you&rsquo;ve forgotten that. And
everything that is going on that you are experiencing apparently
&ldquo;out there,&rdquo; you are experiencing as a Conscious Experience
in your Mind. Therefore it&rsquo;s all a mental experience. Therefore
everything you are seeing is nothing more than an Idea. And the Idea is
Eternal, and therefore forever stable. So don&rsquo;t mistake and think
that because we&rsquo;re talking about Ideas and because you can change
your mind, that Ideas can change. Ideas are Eternal because the Source
of the Idea is God.

Everything I&rsquo;ve said, since I started talking today, is expressing
Singularity, and expressing it in different ways so that you might catch
the tone of it, the feel of it, so that you might have curiosity to
relax into a greater experience of it. Why? So that your Conscious
Experience of Being becomes more of a Singularity, and therefore more
like God, more parallel to God. Because as we&rsquo;ve talked about,
it&rsquo;s as, we&rsquo;ll say, divergent points of view begin to
parallel each other that God can take the last step, because where
you&rsquo;re standing is so similar to What God Is Being that it&rsquo;s
just a [snap of the fingers] slip away. Just a little loss of footing,
you might say, and [snap of the fingers] ooops, you&rsquo;re no longer
parallel to God. You&rsquo;re experiencing the fact that God is all
there is of You, and there&rsquo;s no inclination on your part to have a
separate point of view ever again.

Okay. Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You can EXCEL &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; as an ego.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; in many DIFFERENT ways, but you can EQUALIZE &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; bring things into Singularity &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; in ONE WAY ONLY.
</div>

And the prayer that I gave you identifies that way. The way is Love. I
wish to see only the evidence of what? Love. I wish to be only the
evidence of what? Love.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Equality is NOT a variable state, by definition.

That is why you will be able to perform ALL aspects of your work with
ease when you have learned THIS course.
</div>

I could say that is why you will be able to perform all aspects, or
roles, of your day with ease when you have learned this Course. Because
you will have found a way to bring it all into the Singularity of
Love&mdash;the intent to see it, as well as the intent to be it. And I
will tell you that there&rsquo;s no moment in your day and no place you
can be at any moment in your day, that doesn&rsquo;t provide you with
the opportunity to wish to see the Evidence of Love, or to wish to be
the Evidence of Love.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To the ego there appears to be no connection because the EGO is
discontinuous.
</div>

It is broken up into parts. It is fragmented. And it sees fragmentation,
and it can prove that the fragmentation is real. &ldquo;The tree is not
the rabbit. Everybody knows the tree is not the rabbit. The grass is not
the rabbit. The rabbit eats the grass; the grass doesn&rsquo;t eat the
rabbit. They are different. They have different functions. Blah, blah,
blah.&rdquo; It sees fragmentation because it is itself discontinuous,
fragmented. It sees fragmentation because it&rsquo;s looking through the
lens of fragmentation, not because what it is seeing is actually
fragmented.

That&rsquo;s why when you go through your day and you see things that
seem to be in conflict, you must remember that you&rsquo;re looking at
it through a lens. And if you&rsquo;re seeing conflict, you have
forgotten what you want to see and what you want to be, thus you have
set that lens aside. Initially you can think about the wish to see the
Evidence of Love and the wish to be the Evidence of Love as a new lens.
You can fudge in that way because it makes it easier for you to conceive
of giving yourself a new focus. But the fact is that when you are seeing
and being the Evidence of Love, you have taken off lenses and you have
said in so many words, &ldquo;Thy Will be done, Father. I wish to see
everything as You are seeing it, because that really is the only
fundamental way there is for me to see anything. And if I&rsquo;m seeing
it in any other way, it&rsquo;s because I have chosen to utilize lenses
that distort my normal way of seeing and distort Creation, my experience
of Creation.&rdquo;

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To the ego there appears to be no connection because the EGO is
discontinuous. Yet the Holy Spirit teaches ONE lesson, and applies it to
ALL individuals in ALL situations.
</div>

And I would add: All things.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Being conflict-free, He maximizes ALL efforts and ALL results.
</div>

Your intent to see the Evidence of Love, your wish, your desire to see
the Evidence of Love and to be the Evidence of Love, maximizes
everything you do and the results of everything you do.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
By teaching the power of the Kingdom of God Himself, He &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit, your right Mind &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; teaches you that ALL POWER IS YOURS. Its application does not
matter.
</div>

Whether it&rsquo;s you dealing with your subordinates at work, or you
dealing with your children, or you dealing with your parents, or you
dealing with your mate, or you dealing with your enemy, the application
of the power that is yours &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; [It] is ALWAYS maximal.
</div>

What is the power that is yours? The Power of Love.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your vigilance &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in other words, your stick-to-it-iveness with your desire to
see and be the Evidence of Love &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; does not ESTABLISH it as yours, but it DOES enable you to use
it ALWAYS and in ALL WAYS.
</div>

As I said, there will never be an occasion where you cannot be the
Evidence of Love. And there&rsquo;s no occasion where you cannot wish to
see the Evidence of Love. And I&rsquo;m going to say also that
there&rsquo;s no situation or circumstance in which the Evidence of Love
is not present to be seen. In other words, there&rsquo;s no place in All
of Creation, or even in all of your distorted experience of life, that
has a capacity to be stubborn enough to resist your desire to succeed at
seeing the Evidence of Love there. Why? Because no matter how much your
private definitions of everything have been strengthened by commitment
you have brought to them, Reality hasn&rsquo;t changed. The Presence of
God has not been altered, and no substitute has successfully been
brought in to replace it&mdash;the Presence of God. Therefore, there is
nothing that can stand successfully against your desire to see the
Evidence of Love there, and there, and there. Why? Because no matter how
fragmentedly you have managed to see everything, it hasn&rsquo;t stopped
being an uninterruptible, unchangeable, eternal Singularity.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When I said, &ldquo;I am with you always,&rdquo; I meant it literally. I
am not absent to ANYONE, in ANY situation.
</div>

And I am going to tell you this; I&rsquo;ve told it to you before in
other ways. You are with each other always. You are with the whole
Brotherhood always. You cannot be absent from anyone, because absolutely
everything is some aspect of the Infinitude of You, and you are some
aspect of the Infinitude of everyone else. That&rsquo;s why I suggested
that you use a little more self-discipline. Because since you&rsquo;re
teaching all the time by simply being, you might want not to feel so
free to be frustrated and angry and vent, because everybody gets it,
because you cannot be absent from anyone anymore than I can be absent
from you.

Now, you could say I just laid a guilt trip on you. But here&rsquo;s the
flip side of it. It isn&rsquo;t a guilt trip. It&rsquo;s the Truth. And
here&rsquo;s the flip side of it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
BECAUSE I am always with you, YOU are the Way and the Truth and the
Light.
</div>

And because you each are with every other Brother always, that which is
true about you is true about them, and establishes it. You might say
keeps it established, doesn&rsquo;t violate it, doesn&rsquo;t try to
alter it.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You did not make this power any more than I did. It was created to BE
shared, and therefore cannot be meaningfully perceived as belonging to
anyone AT THE EXPENSE of another. Such a perception makes it meaningless
by eliminating or overlooking its REAL and ONLY meaning.
</div>

Do you see what that means? No. Well let me put it this way. When you
said, &ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;d rather see it for myself,&rdquo; when you
said, &ldquo;Father, I would like a bill of divorcement. I would like to
be and look at everything on my own.&rdquo;, and you shut the door on
your Father, at that very moment you caused everything you were
experiencing about yourself and about Life to become meaningless. Why?
Because without a Father, you&rsquo;re not a Son, or a Daughter. Your
Identity was lost to you, even though you couldn&rsquo;t actually lose
it at all.

Do you see what I mean? The moment you embrace what is not true as true,
in spite of the energy you put forth to try to make it true, you are in
a meaningless experience. When you say, &ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;m going
to look at things, all things by myself,&rdquo; and you perceive
yourself as independent and you perceive everything in the unique ways
you choose to perceive them, that perception makes what you&rsquo;re
seeing meaningless by eliminating, or overlooking, the real and only
Meaning of You. The real and only Meaning of You is that you are a Son,
or Daughter, who therefore has a Father, and your Father is what gives
you your Identity.

The next section, which doesn&rsquo;t appear in the first and second
edition, is called:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*The Recognition of Truth*
</div>

The subject itself doesn&rsquo;t appear.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God&rsquo;s meaning waits in the Kingdom because that is where He placed
it.
</div>

The Meaning He has embodied as each and every Aspect of Creation.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It does not wait in time. It merely RESTS &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; abides &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; in the Kingdom because it BELONGS there, as You do. How can
you&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; know? Mind you, I want you to notice how these words are
embodying the meaning of the word, &ldquo;Singularity.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
How can you, who ARE God&rsquo;s meaning, perceive yourselves as absent
FROM it?
</div>

Your Meaning is Sonhood, Daughterhood. But if you choose to say,
&ldquo;I&rsquo;ve gotten a divorce from my Father and I&rsquo;m now
independent on my own,&rdquo; you are perceiving yourself as absent from
that which gives you Meaning. It&rsquo;s simple. It&rsquo;s an illusion,
but it&rsquo;s one you believe and one you fight fiercely for the right
to have.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
How can you, who ARE God&rsquo;s meaning, perceive yourselves as absent
FROM it? You can see yourselves as separated from your meaning only BY
EXPERIENCING YOURSELF AS UNREAL. This is why the ego is insane; . .
</div>

&hellip; and what&rsquo;s the ego? It&rsquo;s just the collection of
beliefs and ideas that you&rsquo;re employing to give yourself
definition while you are having a temporary lack of Identity.

Continuing &hellip; repeating &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is why the ego is insane; it teaches that you are NOT what you ARE.
This is so contradictory that it is clearly impossible.
</div>

But it&rsquo;s not clearly impossible when you forget that you&rsquo;re
looking at everything with that frame of reference. And when you forget
that you&rsquo;re looking at everything through that lens, then the
illusion no longer seems to be clearly impossible. It seems to be
absolutely actual.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is therefore a lesson which you CANNOT REALLY LEARN&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you can&rsquo;t really learn that you&rsquo;re an independent
entity. It&rsquo;s an impossible lesson.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is therefore a lesson which you CANNOT REALLY LEARN, and therefore
CANNOT REALLY TEACH. Yet you ARE always teaching.
</div>

Hmm. Interesting.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You MUST, therefore, be teaching something ELSE as well, even though the
ego DOES NOT KNOW WHAT IT IS.
</div>

Well, just because the Son of God, the Christ&mdash;we&rsquo;ll speak
figuratively&mdash;took off your golden robes, or your seamless robe of
white, or your garment of loveliness, and dressed up in a costume of
horribleness, you still remain, underneath this awful garment, the Son
of God, the Christ. You might have distorted your perception enough to
forget that&rsquo;s Who You Are, but it can&rsquo;t keep you from being
What You Are. And so all the time you&rsquo;ve forgotten, you&rsquo;re
still the Christ being the Christ, and that&rsquo;s being taught as
well.

Why is this important to know? Because you have this intense deep
conviction in you that you&rsquo;re somewhere way behind the Point of
Perfection working toward it, and it&rsquo;s going to be hard work, and
it&rsquo;s going to take a long time. It&rsquo;s important for you to
know that all the time you&rsquo;re thinking that and behaving as though
that were true, you&rsquo;re still being the Christ. You are. And the
Christ that you are is at least teaching that it is being, that it is
present. And that teaching is reaching all of your Brothers as well.
Your ability to be the Christ is in action right now. It&rsquo;s not a
long way off. It&rsquo;s not a capacity you lost and have to regain.

Again, it&rsquo;s a matter of a shift of perception. It&rsquo;s a matter
of a shift of emphasis. It&rsquo;s utterly simple. And the more clearly
you can&mdash;I&rsquo;m going to say in the vernacular&mdash;wrap your
mind around this idea, the easier it&rsquo;s going to be for you to
recognize and feel that it doesn&rsquo;t have to take a long time, and
it doesn&rsquo;t really require you to go through an intense learning
process. It might just be something as simple as a shift of emphasis.
And it will be easier to make the shift of emphasis now that
you&rsquo;re being told over and over and over again that you&rsquo;re
neither behind the Point of Perfection, nor advancing toward it;
you&rsquo;re at that Point and must understand yourself&mdash;understand
yourself, conceive of yourself, let yourself be conscious of
yourself&mdash;from there, which is right here, right where you are at
this moment, right What You Are at this moment, right here in the middle
of the Kingdom of Heaven that is the Kingdom of Heaven at this moment,
even though you&rsquo;re still insisting that it&rsquo;s just a material
world and material universe that started from a big bang.

I am making it easier for you.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego, then &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and I&rsquo;m going to insert this. Because of what
you&rsquo;re teaching about What You Really Are &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; IS always being undone&hellip;
</div>

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego, then IS always being undone, and DOES suspect your motives.
</div>

As I&rsquo;ve said before, the Holy Spirit is always insinuating Itself
into your Conscious Experience. Now you know that the Holy Spirit is
nothing more than your right Mind, the Christ That You Are. It&rsquo;s
constantly insinuating Itself into your right Mind. That&rsquo;s the
teaching that&rsquo;s going on. But the ego doesn&rsquo;t know what it
is. So the ego is always being undone and does suspect your motives.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your mind CANNOT be unified in allegiance to the ego, because the mind
does NOT belong to it.
</div>

Why doesn&rsquo;t the Mind belong to it? Because the ego is nothing more
than a bunch of definitions and idea structures going on in what? The
Mind. So how can the Mind belong to something that&rsquo;s in it? It
can&rsquo;t.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet what is &ldquo;treacherous&rdquo; to the ego IS faithful to peace.
</div>

And what is Peace? It&rsquo;s the word that brought up the first use of
the word &ldquo;Singularity&rdquo; a few weeks ago.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet what is &ldquo;treacherous&rdquo; to the ego IS faithful to peace.
The ego&rsquo;s &ldquo;enemy&rdquo; is therefore YOUR friend.
</div>

It&rsquo;s really more than your friend. It&rsquo;s You at the bottom
line. It&rsquo;s the Holy Spirit.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
We said before that the ego&rsquo;s friend is not part of you&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; I know, someone is saying, &ldquo;Well, what does that
mean?&rdquo; Well let&rsquo;s go on to the end of the sentence &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; since the ego perceives itself as at war, and therefore in need
of allies.
</div>

Well, what does it need allies against? You. That in you which can
uncover its non-existence. That in you which has the capacity to nullify
it completely by remembering Who You Are. That in you which actually
does know What You Truly Are&mdash;the Holy Spirit.

Where does it go to get allies? It goes to the people you know and it
says, &ldquo;You know what?&rdquo; It doesn&rsquo;t say, &ldquo;You know
what? I&rsquo;m feeling very vulnerable, because I don&rsquo;t really
exist and it&rsquo;s quite possible that my non-existence might get
uncovered.&rdquo; No. It goes to others, your friends, your
acquaintances, the people in your world, and it says to them, &ldquo;You
know, I know that you feel uncomfortable. I know that you feel
unsafe.&rdquo; Which, of course, they do because they&rsquo;re not awake
at the moment. And it says, &ldquo;You know what? I don&rsquo;t either.
And if we got together and made some agreements, we could form a power
base in the world and secure some guidelines of behavior that would
cause all of us to feel significantly safer than if we each did it all
by ourselves.&rdquo; Really sneaky, isn&rsquo;t it?

But, mind you, at the bottom line, why is it engaging in this farce of
concern for everyone&rsquo;s welfare? Because, at the bottom line,
it&rsquo;s feeling vulnerable to the Holy Spirit in you that can uncover
its non-existence. It doesn&rsquo;t say to others, &ldquo;Help protect
me against this insane part of my mind that thinks all there is to it is
God.&rdquo; No. [laughing] You see? And in the process of doing this, it
means that you find yourself dealing with your friends in ways of
negotiation to build up mutually-agreed-upon definitions for codes of
behavior that will make you feel safe. And all the time you&rsquo;re
doing that, you&rsquo;re totally distracted from the awareness that
you&rsquo;re looking through a lens, and that it&rsquo;s the taking off
of the lens that needs to be dealt with. You see? And it just compounds
itself.

Returning to the book &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
We said before that the ego&rsquo;s friend is not part of you, since the
ego perceives itself as at war, and therefore in need of allies.
</div>

Now, on the other hand:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
YOU&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Real You &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; who are NOT at war, must look for brothers and RECOGNIZE all
whom you see AS brothers, because ONLY equals are at peace.
</div>

Or only equals are present in Singularity.

Now it doesn&rsquo;t say, &ldquo;You, who are not at war, must look for
OTHERS and recognize all whom you see &hellip; blah, blah, blah.&rdquo;
It says that &ldquo;you must look for BROTHERS.&rdquo; Why? Why the word
&ldquo;brothers&rdquo;? Because Brothers are equals, Brothers are
family, Brothers are bonded. Not because they grew up together, but
because they are Brothers.

Divinely speaking, the word &ldquo;Brothers,&rdquo;
&ldquo;Sisters,&rdquo; &ldquo;Brotherhood,&rdquo; conveys connectedness,
Oneness, Equality; a state of being bound together in holiness,
wholeness. A Brother is not just an acquaintance. A Brother is never a
stranger. You know your Brother. You know your Sister. Your Brother
knows you. It&rsquo;s this Unity, this Singularity, that the word
&ldquo;Brother&rdquo; is meant to inspire in you, so that you might
understand that the relationship is not a loose relationship, or a
casual relationship, or a shallow relationship, or a tenuous
relationship. It also means that because you&rsquo;re Brothers, you have
the same Father, which means that you both have gained your Identity
from a single Source, and that your Identity, both of your Identities,
if I may pluralize the word, that both of your Identities are identical
in the sense of equal, and therefore there can be no occasion for
jealousy. So the word &ldquo;Brother&rdquo; is important, just as the
word &ldquo;Father&rdquo; is more important than you ever thought it
was.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
YOU, who are NOT at war, must look for brothers &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; not allies &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and RECOGNIZE all whom you see AS brothers, because ONLY equals
are at peace.
</div>

Now when it says that &ldquo;you, who are not at war, must look for
Brothers,&rdquo; it doesn&rsquo;t mean that it&rsquo;s a command. It
means that you, who are not at war, have nothing else to look for but
Brothers, because your mind isn&rsquo;t conflicted.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
YOU, who are NOT at war, must look for brothers &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; instead of allies &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and RECOGNIZE all whom you see AS brothers, because ONLY equals
are at peace.

Because God&rsquo;s equal Sons &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and Daughters &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; have everything, they CANNOT compete.
</div>

And I&rsquo;m saying that the very word &ldquo;competition&rdquo; is so
much tinkling brass; nonsense, meaningless.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet if they perceive ANY of their brothers as anything other than their
perfect equals, the idea of competition HAS entered their minds.
</div>

Those lenses have been put on.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Do not underestimate your need to be vigilant AGAINST this idea, because
ALL your conflicts come from it.
</div>

All of your conflicts come from this one single idea. Just like all of
your illusions come from putting those lenses in front of your eyes,
between your eyes and what you&rsquo;re looking at. You put on the
glasses, you put on your conflict glasses, your defense glasses, and you
look out and see a thousand reasons to be defended. And yet
there&rsquo;s only one reason that you feel the need to be defended, and
that&rsquo;s the pair of glasses you&rsquo;ve put on. So you must
remember this so that you address what will solve the problem, which is
how you&rsquo;re looking at things, what you&rsquo;re looking at things
with. What you are looking at things with. And what you&rsquo;re looking
at things with will always be a wish. A wish to see conflict, or a wish
to see only the Evidence of Love, the wish to only be the Evidence of
Love. That&rsquo;s what you&rsquo;re looking with is a wish. Remember
that. We&rsquo;ve come down to the utter simplicity of it.

And I don&rsquo;t want to hear anyone say, &ldquo;Well, if it&rsquo;s
that simple, why isn&rsquo;t anyone awake yet? No one is awake yet and
that is a simple idea. Somebody must have thought of it before now, and
we&rsquo;re not all awake, so what you&rsquo;re saying is a bunch of
malarkey.&rdquo; It&rsquo;s not. Let those two wishes persist in you and
they will join together as One, a Singularity. And when there&rsquo;s no
backup wish, when you have no alternative wish stuck up your sleeve for
an emergency, and your intent really becomes Singular, you will see the
evidence of it and you will wake up.

And then it will become easier for everyone else to wake up, but
they&rsquo;re going to have to say, &ldquo;Wow! Mm. That simple idea
really is the Truth obviously.&rdquo; And then they&rsquo;re going to
have to look at themselves and find out just exactly what ace they have
up their sleeve that they&rsquo;re really not too happy about having to
abandon, but which they will have to, if their intent is going to become
a Singularity and their willingness is going to be in complete harmony
with it.

So, again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Do not underestimate your need to be vigilant AGAINST this idea,
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the idea of competition &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; because ALL your conflicts come from it. It is the belief that
conflicting interests are possible, and therefore you have accepted the
impossible as TRUE. How is that different from saying that you are
perceiving YOURSELF as unreal?
</div>

It&rsquo;s not.

Now listen to this. Pure Singularity.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To be IN the Kingdom is merely to focus your full attention ON it.
</div>

To be in the Kingdom is merely to focus your full attention on it.
Again, a simple shift of emphasis. And remember that all the time you
think you&rsquo;re what you&rsquo;re dressed up to be in your costume,
What You Are is perfectly unaltered underneath the costume and is
teaching What It Is. It&rsquo;s not really that hard to shift the
emphasis from the costume you&rsquo;re wearing to the one who&rsquo;s
wearing it.

We&rsquo;re not even gonna go into all the reasons you can come up with
as to, you know, in order to justify that you can&rsquo;t possibly be
the Christ. There are hundreds of them, thousands of them. You know,
it&rsquo;s an endless string of spaghetti. But it doesn&rsquo;t matter.
Because no matter how much you blab untruth, you aren&rsquo;t the
costume you&rsquo;re wearing, and that which is wearing the costume is
the Ultimate You. And all you have to do is abandon the justifications
and all the ways you distract yourself, and make a simple shift of
emphasis from the costume to the one who&rsquo;s wearing it.

You know, before you can move into new territory, you have to have a
hint that there is new territory, and what it is. And you&rsquo;re
getting the hint. And it&rsquo;s making a difference.

Have an interesting and wonderful week. And I look forward to being with
you next week.

[^1]: T7.3 The Unified Curriculum

