---
title: Apr 25, 2004
ref: "T7.4 The Recognition of Truth"
alink: "/acim/text/07/chap0704/"
---

Good afternoon. And welcome to everyone who is joining us on the
Internet as well.

I gave you all two prayers and I&rsquo;d like to talk about them for
just a moment. The first one was, I wish to see the Evidence of Love.
And the second one was, I wish to be the Evidence of Love. These are two
very significant prayers. Significant because they are the means by
which you can neglect the prayer you all say everyday which is, &ldquo;I
wish to see whatever it is I need to see in order to protect my
ass.&rdquo; Watch your behavior and you will be able to tell what your
real prayer is.

You get up late. You jump in the car, you rush down the freeway, and you
watch to see if the police are behind you. You come into the office and
you punch in one minute before start time, and you look to see if the
boss noticed that you just made it. You sit down and you take a look at
your day to see what? What good things are in store? No. You check to
see what are the things that are going to be difficult so you can be
prepared for them. You&rsquo;re constantly looking at your world to get
your guidelines so that you can manage to get to the end of your day
somewhat gracefully and without having made anything worse. Now
that&rsquo;s a rather severe description, but you&rsquo;ll all agree
that it&rsquo;s amazingly accurate and in one way or another describes
most of your days.

Now, the thing to remember is that you will see what you&rsquo;re
looking with. You always see what you&rsquo;re looking with. You will
always find your world reflecting back to you the attitude with which
you are looking at it. If you are depressed, the clouds are depressing.
If you&rsquo;re full of joy, the clouds are beautiful. Or you say,
&ldquo;Oh wow! This is a good, chilly day. A great day to have a hot
inside-warming dish. I&rsquo;ve been waiting for this day, &lsquo;cause
I can&rsquo;t have it on hot days.&rdquo;

What you&rsquo;re looking with is what you will see, and so these two
prayers are significant. The first one: I wish to see the Evidence of
Love. Mm. Well, what is one of the outstanding characteristics of the
Evidence of Love? Its loveliness. So you&rsquo;re asking to see
loveliness in your world, the Evidence of Love, that which is a pleasure
to see, a pleasure to experience. And when that is what you are looking
with, I promise you that is what you will begin to see reflected back to
you. I wish to see the Evidence of Love.

Now, God is Love, and so when you say, &ldquo;I wish to see the Evidence
of Love,&rdquo; you&rsquo;re really saying, &ldquo;I wish to see the
Evidence of the Presence of God.&rdquo; If that isn&rsquo;t included in
the meaning of the words, &ldquo;I wish to see the Evidence of
Love,&rdquo; you&rsquo;re not being open enough. Because you don&rsquo;t
want to just see the evidence of friends and neighbors and acquaintances
being loving toward each other; you want to see the Evidence of the Love
that God is embodying in and as the world. So your prayer not only gives
your attention a direction, it also causes your attention to open up to
something larger than whatever is already in your memory banks. It is an
invitation to let something bigger in than just you.

Now when you say, &ldquo;I wish to be the Evidence of Love,&rdquo; it
establishes an intent in your mind about you. And how can you be the
Evidence of Love? By letting the Love That God Is through you, extended
to an object, or objects, of your affection. In other words, it&rsquo;s
an intent on your part to extend love what? From your puny little mind?
No. From the Source of Love, so that you might embody God, so that you
might embody the Excellence that is in you. And so once again it&rsquo;s
more than just you embodying Love; it&rsquo;s you opening the door for
an Awareness of God in you flowing through you because you want to be
able to embody it, extend it, give it presence in the world.

So prayer is never private. Prayer is always in one way or another, if
it is real prayer, a joining with the Father, a joining with your
Brother. Why? Just so you can feel better? Just so you can have a less
strenuous day? No. &lsquo;Cause doing this causes you to become an agent
for change; what you might call a dynamic, healing presence.

The Course uses the word &ldquo;correction&rdquo; often. This and that
call for correction. And as I&rsquo;ve said before, you&rsquo;ve got to
remember that correction isn&rsquo;t punishment; correction is healing.
Correction is the uncovering of What Is Real right where something
unlike God seems to be going on. Healing, or correction, is the
uncovering of Truth. Healing, or correction, is the uncovering of
Reality. Amongst Course students, the word &ldquo;healing&rdquo;
receives far too little attention. And yet, if there is going to be
redemption, there&rsquo;s got to be change. There&rsquo;s going to be
change. There&rsquo;s going to be the replacement of that which is
unlovely with that which is lovely, recognizably lovely; something
recognizably pleasurable to be experiencing and sharing.

Okay, let&rsquo;s go into the book.

Again, if you&rsquo;re in the Sparkly Book, it&rsquo;s page 149, first
full paragraph. In the second edition, page 117, first full paragraph.
And the first edition, page 108, last full paragraph.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To be IN the Kingdom is merely to focus your full attention ON it.[^1]
</div>

There&rsquo;s the magic word &ldquo;attention&rdquo; again. Your
attention is God&rsquo;s treasure.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As long as you believe that you can attend to what is NOT true, you are
accepting conflict as your CHOICE. Is it REALLY a choice? It SEEMS to
be, but seeming and reality are hardly the same. You who ARE the Kingdom
are not concerned with seeming.
</div>

What does that mean, &ldquo;you who are the Kingdom&rdquo;? You remember
last week I was saying that you are the Singularity, because you are the
Conscious Awareness which is boundary-less, and therefore all-inclusive,
and everything you&rsquo;re experiencing is going on within Conscious
Awareness, or Mind. Mind is the Kingdom. And you&rsquo;ve got to
remember, you&rsquo;ve got to keep reminding yourself that everything
you are experiencing that you&rsquo;re calling material is only material
by your definition, but in actuality it is nonmaterial. It is composed
entirely and infinitely of Ideas. So whether it&rsquo;s the flower, or
the book, or the fingernail, it&rsquo;s an Idea, and it&rsquo;s an Idea
in Mind. It&rsquo;s an Idea which Mind formed. And I&rsquo;m
capitalizing the &ldquo;M&rdquo;, because it&rsquo;s the Infinite Mind
that is God that formed it. And that Mind is what constitutes yours. And
it is discovering the Truth of that that we&rsquo;re calling Awakening.

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You who ARE the Kingdom &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you when you are, I&rsquo;m going to say, being out from Mind,
instead of being as a body.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; are not concerned with seeming. Reality is yours because you
ARE reality. This is how having and being are ultimately reconciled, not
in the Kingdom&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; it&rsquo;s not reconciled in the Kingdom &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; but IN YOUR MINDS. The altar there &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in your Minds &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is the ONLY reality. The altar is perfectly clear in thought
because it is a reflection of PERFECT Thought.
</div>

A Thought or Idea in the Mind of God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It sees only brothers because it sees ONLY in its own Light.
</div>

Now, remember what we&rsquo;re talking about here is you. We&rsquo;re
talking about you as the Conscious Awareness in which your body and
everything else is being experienced. But you are the unbounded,
Singular, Conscious Experience of Being.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God has lit your minds Himself, and keeps your minds lit by His Light
because His Light is what your minds ARE.
</div>

You see, Awakening is a matter of shifting what you are using to
identify yourself. Awakening is a matter of shifting from identifying
with and as the body, to identifying with and as Pure Conscious
Awareness in which Creation infinitely is being experienced. It&rsquo;s
a shift of vantage point. And again, a shift of what you are using to
identify yourselves by.

And so again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God has lit your minds Himself, and keeps your minds lit by His Light
because His Light is what your minds ARE. This is TOTALLY beyond
question, and when you questioned it, you WERE answered. The answer
merely UNDOES the question by establishing the fact that to question
reality is to question meaninglessly.
</div>

Now it says, &ldquo;when you questioned it, you were answered,&rdquo;
and the answer was what you&rsquo;re trying to do is meaningless, and if
you insist upon doing it, you will have a meaningless experience. You
may, if you wish, do it, but understand that you aren&rsquo;t
accomplishing anything at all. You aren&rsquo;t accomplishing anything
at all.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The answer merely UNDOES the question by establishing the fact that to
question reality is to question meaninglessly. That is why the Holy
Spirit &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; which is nothing more than your right Mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; NEVER questions. His sole function is to UNDO the questionable,
and thus lead to CERTAINTY.
</div>

So, you should be getting the idea that the Movement of Awakening will
be a movement away from uncertainty and a million questions into
Certainty in which only Knowing is going on.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The certain are perfectly calm because they are not in doubt. They do
not raise questions because nothing questionable ENTERS their minds.
This holds them in perfect serenity because this is what they share,
KNOWING what they are.
</div>

Now, this experience does not await you in the distant future. It awaits
you in any moment in which you are willing to set aside concern, to set
aside fretfulness, to set aside your confidence in your personal
capacity to solve your problems, and to become still and to turn toward
the Altar within you and invite something more into your experience than
just you and your capacity to figure things out.

Now, you do this by saying, &ldquo;Help,&rdquo; or you do this by asking
a question. Mind you, as long as you are in doubt, you will have
questions. And it&rsquo;s not a sin to ask a question; it&rsquo;s only a
mistake to ask a question of yourself. You want to ask the question of
something that has Certainty&mdash;God&mdash;or God&rsquo;s agent, if
you will, the Holy Spirit; your Divinity which is held in trust while
you dally with the ego.

I wish to see the embodiment of Love. I wish to be the embodiment of
Love. That&rsquo;s the way you open yourself up in a relevant
way&mdash;relevant to you and relevant to your world. That&rsquo;s the
way you open the door to serenity.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As has so often been said, healing is both an art and a science. It is
an art because it depends on inspiration in the sense that we have
already used the term. Inspiration is the opposite of dispiriting, and
therefore means to make joyous.
</div>

When you say, &ldquo;I wish to see the Evidence of Love,&rdquo; you are
inviting the Experience of Joy. You&rsquo;re opening the door for Joy to
come in.

When you are looking, when you are wishing to see that which will help
you, or allow you, to protect yourself better, you are looking through
the lens of fear, and fear is the motivation. And fear is enervating. It
is dis-spiriting, which means you experience a loss of energy, and you
also block the experience of inspiration.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The dispirited are depressed because they believe that they are
literally &ldquo;without the Spirit,&rdquo; which is an illusion.
</div>

It&rsquo;s impossible.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You do not PUT the Spirit in them by inspiring them because that would
be magic, and therefore would not be real healing.
</div>

And this is important.

<div markdown="1" class="well bookâ€>
You DO, however, recognize the Spirit that is ALREADY there, and thereby
REAWAKEN it. This is why the healer is part of the resurrection and the
LIFE.
</div>

This is why you are part of the Resurrection and the Life.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Spirit is not asleep in the minds of the sick, but the part of the
mind that can perceive it and be glad IS.
</div>

And so healing is the reawakening of the awareness of Spirit in the one
who is in need of healing, when he or she thought it was gone. And you
haven&rsquo;t changed them at all. You&rsquo;ve just shined a light on
something that was there but hidden in the darkness, because they had
closed the door on it.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Healing is also a science because it obeys the laws of God, Whose laws
are true.
</div>

Healing is always a matter of you and the one being healed coming back
into an awareness of the Order of Being, the Orderliness of Being, the
Harmony of Being, that exists whether you want to pay any attention to
it or not.

Referring to the Laws:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
BECAUSE they are true they are perfectly dependable, and therefore
universal in application.
</div>

In other words, at all times, in all places, under all circumstances,
they always apply. Therefore, you are always in a State of Security,
whether you know it or not. And when you say, &ldquo;I wish to see the
Evidence of Love,&rdquo; you are saying, you&rsquo;re opening yourself
up to the experience of this Security which is yours, you could say, by
Law. But it&rsquo;s not a Law that&rsquo;s applied to you. It&rsquo;s
the Law of your Being. It&rsquo;s the Flawless Order of your Being that
has forever been.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The REAL aim of science is neither prediction nor control, but ONLY
understanding. This is because it does NOT establish the laws it seeks;
CANNOT discover them through prediction; and has NO control over them at
all. Science is nothing more than an approach to WHAT ALREADY IS.
</div>

Now think about this.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Science is nothing more than an approach to WHAT ALREADY IS.
</div>

Awakening is nothing more than an approach to what already is. And
again, you are neither behind the Point of Perfection, nor advancing
toward it; you are at that Point and must understand yourself there
from. You must approach what already is so that you may look at
everything from there, including yourself.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Like inspiration it &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning &ldquo;science,&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; can be misunderstood as magic, and WILL be whenever it is
undertaken as SEPARATE from what already is, and perceived as a means
for ESTABLISHING it.
</div>

You see, in healing, you&rsquo;re not busying yourself with establishing
health. You&rsquo;re busying yourself with opening up to the already
established order of everything that God has made, so that a
misperception no longer gets in the way of the experience of it.
It&rsquo;s you abandoning your heartfelt definitions that you have
made-up that are by definition different from What God Is Being. Your
definitions are always an aberration, are always a distortion, or a
biasing, of Something Already Real. And in that sense, your definition
constitutes a denial, to one degree or another, of That Which Already
Is. Healing is being willing to abandon your commitment to your
definition with a curiosity to what? See the Evidence of Love there, see
the Evidence of God there.

And so, again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Like inspiration [science] can be misunderstood as magic, and WILL be
whenever it is undertaken as SEPARATE from what already is, and
perceived as a means for ESTABLISHING it. To believe this is possible is
to believe YOU CAN DO IT. This can ONLY be the voice of the ego.
</div>

[small laugh] You see, the ego says, &ldquo;You can do it.&rdquo; The
ego says, &ldquo;It needs to be done.&rdquo; And God says, &ldquo;It was
done from the beginning. It has always been. You don&rsquo;t need to do
it over. You don&rsquo;t need to establish health. Health is the Law of
your Being.&rdquo;

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Truth can only be RECOGNIZED, and NEED only be recognized.
</div>

When you know the Truth, when you recognize the Truth, I&rsquo;m going
to say when you recognize God&rsquo;s Truth, you know the Truth and
you&rsquo;re no longer deluded, which means that you no longer suffer
from distorted perception, and so you see the Truth. And the wart, or
the rash, or whatever dis-ease you might be experiencing, will cease
presenting itself to you because you&rsquo;re no longer deluded. And
correction will occur, but it will be a correction in your mind of a
misperception; a correction that spontaneously occurred the moment you
recognized Truth and knew the Truth that rendered the misperception
invalid and no longer valuable to you.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Inspiration &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; now where did that come from? We&rsquo;re talking about Truth.
Well, Truth [snap of the fingers] recognized is experienced as
inspiration. It is a shift from a tiny, tight, confined, defensive
mental attitude and feeling into an open, singular, unlimited Experience
of Reality, of Truth, that is a Joy to be experiencing, not only because
you know you&rsquo;re knowing the Truth, but because you&rsquo;re no
longer experiencing insanity. And you&rsquo;re feeling your Wholeness
and you&rsquo;re feeling your natural invulnerability, and that is
inspiring. That is the experience of the inspiration of recognizing the
Truth and no longer being deluded.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Inspiration is of the Spirit, and certainty is of God according to His
laws. Both, therefore, come from the same Source, since inspiration
comes from the Voice FOR God and certainty comes from the laws OF God.
Healing does not come DIRECTLY from God, Who knows His creations as
perfectly whole. Yet healing is still OF God because it proceeds from
His Voice &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Voice for Truth. The Holy Spirit, that which is nothing
more than your right Mind &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and from His laws.
</div>

From the unchanging, underlying, perfect structure, Integrity of God,
which, because it is of God, finds expression in everything that is God
Is Being.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is their result, in a state of mind which does NOT know Him.
</div>

Meaning, as long as you are in ignorance and emerging out of it,
healing, for you, is experienced as of God because it proceeds from His
Voice and from His Laws.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The STATE &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; of mind which does not know him &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is unknown to Him &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; [spoken with a slight laugh] He doesn&rsquo;t know that you
don&rsquo;t know Him. He knows that you know Him. And you&rsquo;re
pretending that you don&rsquo;t. And you like your pretension better
than Reality. And because you believe that you are alone, you are
holding onto that pretension for dear life because you think it&rsquo;s
what&rsquo;s going to save you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The STATE is unknown to Him and therefore does not exist, but those who
sleep ARE stupefied, or better, UNAWARE. BECAUSE they are unaware, they
do NOT know.
</div>

Or, I&rsquo;m going to be a little down and dirty here, or they feign
(f-e-i-g-n) &hellip; they feign not to know, because it&rsquo;s more
satisfying to be in a state of a denial of knowing, so that you can join
with your Brothers and Sisters in the camaraderie of conflict. You all
do know better. You all do know better. You&rsquo;re just choosing to
ignore it by hitting the snooze button on the alarm.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit must work THROUGH you to teach you He is IN you.
</div>

&ldquo;Oh, well, here comes that involvement stuff again.&rdquo; If the
Holy Spirit must work through you, it means that you have to be involved
with someone else for the purpose of embodying Love. I wish to be the
embodiment of Love. When that&rsquo;s your prayer, then that&rsquo;s the
invitation to the Holy Spirit to reveal to you how to be the Presence of
Love that has one purpose&mdash;not to get something for itself, but to
extend something of value to someone else.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit must work THROUGH you to teach you He is IN you. This is
an intermediary step toward the knowledge that you are in God because
you are part of Him. The miracles which the Holy Spirit inspires
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; hear that?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The miracles which the Holy Spirit inspires &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; inspiration brings about change of perception. Change of
perception, change of the lens that you&rsquo;re looking through,
changes the way you see everything, and everything reports back to you
in a new fashion that embodies more of perfection. And healing, you
would say, has occurred.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The miracles which the Holy Spirit inspires can have no order of
difficulty because every part of creation is of ONE order. This is
God&rsquo;s Will AND YOURS.
</div>

God&rsquo;s Will and yours are one. They aren&rsquo;t two. You
don&rsquo;t stand separate from God expressing a will identical to His.
Your will and God&rsquo;s Will are one and the same once you dare to
abandon your so-called right to a will of your own and what you have
called a God-given right to express your own will.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The miracles which the Holy Spirit inspires can have no order of
difficulty because every part of creation is of ONE order. This is
God&rsquo;s Will AND YOURS. The laws of God ESTABLISH this, and the Holy
Spirit reminds you OF it.
</div>

Now if the Laws of God establish this, then the Laws of God have
established it. It&rsquo;s already established. You&rsquo;re already at
the Point of Perfection and must understand yourself there from.
It&rsquo;s already established. So you&rsquo;re not now going to become
agents for change in the world so that you can establish the Laws of
God, or the Presence of God, where it never was before.

This is about yielding up the idea that you have a mind of your own, and
recognizing that if you have a mind at all, it must be the Presence of
Mind which is God. Then in the abandonment of your so-called right to
express your own mind, you let the Mind of God in and through you, you
will find the Singular Experience of Order, Harmony, Perfection, Beauty,
Loveliness, in you and in everything. And whether you&rsquo;re looking
at yourself or looking at something else, you will feel the Singularity
and know that it&rsquo;s You, or know that you&rsquo;re it. It&rsquo;s
all One.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you heal, you are REMEMBERING the laws of God and forgetting the
laws of the ego.
</div>

And one very practical jog to your memory is to remember that you are
under the Laws of God, not under the laws of physics. Just contemplate
that from time to time during the week. You are not governed by, bound
by, the laws of physics, because the laws of physics are nothing more
than your misinterpretation of the Laws of God.

You think that the laws of physics keep you on the ground&mdash;gravity.
No. The idea that you are and that you&rsquo;re &hellip; and the ideas
that compose your body are where they are right now because a simple
decision has been made to be there. Right now you think you have no
choice but to be bound to the chair you&rsquo;re in by gravity until you
exert an opposite force and stand up. It&rsquo;s not true. The chair is
an idea. The planet is an idea. Your body is an idea. And you are the
Mind in which all those ideas are occurring. And how they relate to each
other has to do with a decision you, as Mind, are making. And you can
reconfigure the orientation in your Mind and their relative positions
will change because there&rsquo;s no matter to them to oppose it, and
there are no laws of matter, laws of physics, to deny your decision as
Mind.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you heal, you are REMEMBERING the laws of God and forgetting the
laws of the ego. We said before that forgetting is merely a way of
remembering BETTER.
</div>

Or you could say, neglecting to reinforce your best definitions.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is therefore NOT the opposite of remembering, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; forgetting is not the opposite of remembering &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; when it is properly perceived. Perceived IMPROPERLY, it induces
a perception of CONFLICT with something ELSE, as all incorrect
perception does.
</div>

Remembering and forgetting are not opposites. They&rsquo;re choices. If
you neglect to remember your mutually-agreed-upon definitions, if you
neglect to reinforce those, if you neglect to remember them because you
desire to remember God&rsquo;s Truth that was placed in you because you
are His Self-Expression, then your choice is to remember something
outside your memory banks, outside your &hellip; the synapses in your
brain that you think is the repository of memories. When you desire to
remember what God placed in you from the beginning and is &hellip; and
we could say, reconfirming eternally anew, your attention and intention
is in a new direction and you will neglect to reinforce, or remember,
your mutually-agreed-upon definitions, and thus you will weaken your
bondage to them.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
PROPERLY perceived, it can be used as a way OUT of conflict&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; as I just described &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; as all proper perception can.

ALL abilities, then should be given over to the Holy Spirit WHO KNOWS
HOW TO USE THEM PROPERLY.
</div>

Well, here we go again. Let&rsquo;s be very clear. Turning them over to
the Holy Spirit sounds like yielding to the Holy Spirit, sounds like
submitting yourself to the Holy Spirit, subjecting yourself to the Holy
Spirit, abandoning self-authority, abandoning self-responsibility,
abandoning all that stuff that makes you respectable, becoming a puppet
of the Holy Spirit. Oh! But if the Holy Spirit is nothing more than your
right Mind, then it&rsquo;s wise to submit to the Holy Spirit and yield
to it, because you&rsquo;re yielding to your innate capacity to be
utterly Sane.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
ALL abilities, then should be given over to the Holy Spirit WHO KNOWS
HOW TO USE THEM PROPERLY. He can use them ONLY for healing because He
knows you ONLY as whole.
</div>

&ldquo;Oh. Well there ya go. Here you thought you&rsquo;re gonna be able
to be a healer and heal the world and be an agent for change.&rdquo; But
the only way you&rsquo;ll end up being an agent for change is when you
let the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s Vision of your Wholeness be communicated to
you by It so that you might see your Wholeness and feel it, and
you&rsquo;re the one that gets healed. And your healing is what gives
you new eyes to look with. I wish to see the Evidence of Love. I wish to
be the Evidence of Love.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
BY healing &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; who&rsquo;s? Yours &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you learn of wholeness, and by learning of wholeness you learn
to remember God. You HAVE forgotten Him, but the Holy Spirit still knows
that your forgetting must be translated into a way of REMEMBERING, and
NOT perceived as a separate ability which opposes an opposite. That is
the way in which the ego tries to use ALL abilities, since its goal is
always to make you believe that YOU are in opposition.
</div>

Remember &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
That is the way in which the ego tries to use ALL abilities, since its
goal is always to make you believe that YOU are in opposition.
</div>

Rather than that you are an indivisible, unconflicted Singularity as
Pure Mind. Now you&rsquo;ve got to remember.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego&rsquo;s goal is as unified as the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s, and it is
because of this that their goals can NEVER be reconciled in ANY way or
to ANY extent.
</div>

Now why would the ego&rsquo;s goal be as unified as the Holy
Spirit&rsquo;s? Because whether or not you are consciously fully aware
of being the Christ, or you are seeing yourself as a partitioned off
part of Creation that perceives everything through a lens of fear and
defense and conflict, you are still the Christ. And so everything you
do, whether it&rsquo;s in ignorance or not, is unified, because What You
Divinely Are is a Unity.

The thing is that when that Unity is used to attempt the impossible, or
when that Unity, when that Singularity, is used to try to establish an
illusion, even though it is absolutely unified, it cannot succeed.
Whereas the Christ who knows he, or she, is the Christ, cannot fail in
unified intent. You see what I&rsquo;m saying? Whether you&rsquo;re
conscious or unconscious of being the Christ, you are the Christ.
Whether you act consciously or unconsciously, the act will be a unified
act. But when the attempt is to do something that is impossible, outside
the Laws of God, no matter how unified the act is, the attempt cannot
succeed. So the power of your Being as the Christ right now cannot bear
fruit when it is applied to an impossibility.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego&rsquo;s goal is as unified as the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s, and it is
because of this that their goals can NEVER be reconciled in ANY way or
to ANY extent. The ego ALWAYS seeks to divide and separate. The Holy
Spirit ALWAYS seeks to unify and heal.
</div>

Now if you are the Christ and you are a Singularity, if I may put it
that way, then you cannot use the, for lack of better words, authority
and power of your Christhood and your Singularity to create division. Do
you see that? It won&rsquo;t work because that which is Singular cannot
make anything unlike Itself.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As you heal you ARE healed because the Holy Spirit sees no order of
healing. Healing is the way to UNDO the belief in differences, being the
ONLY way of perceiving the Sonship without this belief.
</div>

Without the belief in separateness where you&rsquo;re constantly in
conflict with each other. You&rsquo;re constantly having to negotiate
peace.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This perception is therefore IN accord with the laws of God even in a
state of mind which is OUT of accord with His. The strength of right
perception is so great that it brings the mind INTO accord with His
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; God&rsquo;s &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; because it yields to His pull, which is in all of you.

To OPPOSE &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; this is beautiful.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To OPPOSE the pull or the Will of God is not an ability but a real
DELUSION. The ego believes that it HAS this ability, and can offer it to
you as a gift. YOU DO NOT WANT IT. It is NOT a gift. It is NOTHING AT
ALL. God has given you a gift which you both have and are. When you do
not use it, you do not know you HAVE it. By NOT knowing this, you do not
know what you are. Healing, then, is a way of APPROACHING knowledge by
thinking IN ACCORDANCE with the laws of God, and recognizing their
UNIVERSALITY.
</div>

Thinking in accordance with the Laws of God. Thinking, &ldquo;Ah! I am
neither behind the Point of Perfection, nor advancing toward it; I am at
that Point and I must understand myself from there. Mm. Wow!&rdquo;

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Without this recognition, you have made the laws themselves meaningless
to you.
</div>

The Laws of God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet the LAWS are not meaningless since all meaning is contained BY them
and IN them.

Seek ye FIRST the Kingdom of Heaven because that is where the laws of
God operate truly, and they can operate ONLY truly, since they are the
laws of Truth. But seek this ONLY because you can FIND nothing else.
There IS nothing else. God is all in all in a very literal sense. All
being is in Him Who IS all Being. YOU are therefore in Him since YOUR
being IS His.
</div>

Your Mind is God&rsquo;s Mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Healing is a way of forgetting the sense of danger the ego has induced
in YOU by NOT recognizing its existence in your brothers. This
strengthens the Holy Spirit in BOTH of you because it is a REFUSAL to
acknowledge fear.
</div>

Remember &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Healing is a way of forgetting the sense of danger the ego has induced
in YOU by NOT recognizing its existence in your brothers.
</div>

Healing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; strengthens the Holy Spirit in BOTH of you because it is a
REFUSAL to acknowledge fear.
</div>

And I&rsquo;m going to say, it&rsquo;s a neglect to acknowledge fear. I
don&rsquo;t want you to attack fear. Now we have polarization. We have
conflict. Neglect to energize fear by having a different intent.
&ldquo;Ah! I wish to see the Evidence of Love.&rdquo; Well, a long as
you wish to see the Evidence of Love, you are neglecting to energize
fear. You&rsquo;re not trying to get rid of it. You&rsquo;re just
neglecting to embody it.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Love needs only this invitation.
</div>

I wish to see the Evidence of Love.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Love needs only this invitation. It comes freely to ALL the Sonship,
being what the Sonship IS. By your awakening TO it, you are merely
forgetting what you are NOT. This enables you to remember what you ARE.
</div>

So, what do you do to remember Who You Are? You wish to see the Evidence
of Love and you wish to be the Evidence of Love. This is the invitation
to inspiration, which is an Experience of Joy. It&rsquo;s an invitation
to the Experience of Loveliness&mdash;recognizable Loveliness.
It&rsquo;s the invitation to That Which Is Real. And by virtue of your
giving your attention and intention there, you naturally weaken whatever
your mutually-agreed-upon definitions are, whatever you have made-up as
a biased perception of Reality. It weakens it by neglecting to energize
it.

Your healing comes with the healing of others. And the healing of others
occurs by an intent on your part to see the Truth there where it seems
not to be going on, to see the Truth there as God Is Being It there,
regardless of appearances. Why? Because you don&rsquo;t want to be
deluded. You wish to see the Evidence of Love. And you wish to see the
Evidence of Love more than you wish to engage in the exhilarating
experience of conflict and winning. A sign outside a casino says,
&ldquo;Come in and win.&rdquo; Oh. It could just as easily say,
&ldquo;Come in and lose.&rdquo; You see?

So, this week, remember the two prayers: I wish to see the embodiment of
Love. I wish to be the embodiment of Love. And remember it in the
context of healing. Healing will keep this from being an intellectual
process and will ground it in what I&rsquo;m going to call Creation.
Your hand that has a wart, a blemish, that needs not to have a blemish
because that doesn&rsquo;t express harmony, perfection, loveliness. I
wish to see the embodiment of Love. It means I wish to see more of the
Evidence of God here than I&rsquo;m seeing. It doesn&rsquo;t mean I wish
to engage in a contest with matter because Truth is more powerful than
matter and Truth will win out.

It&rsquo;s not a contest because matter is like your lap. Where does
your lap go when you stand up. Matter is just an attitudinal
perspective, a way of perceiving. It&rsquo;s a way of perceiving
something incorrectly. And what it is that is being misperceived is Pure
Spirit, Ideas in the Mind of God that are perfectly recognizable and
tangible to the Mind that formed them&mdash;the Ideas. Because what
I&rsquo;m looking at is not matter governed by the law of physics, and
because it is an Idea which I know is intangible in the sense that I
&hellip; in opposition to the tangibility of matter as I have defined
it, I know that reconfiguration can occur because of the fluidity of
Spirit, if I may put it that way.

And so when I say, I wish to see the Evidence of Love, or healing,
you&rsquo;re saying, I wish to see the Evidence of Love on God&rsquo;s
terms. I wish to see the reconfiguration from the way it looks to me
right now to the way It Really Is. I wish to see that reconfiguration
occur according to the Laws of God, which are not limited to the
so-called laws of matter. Therefore, what I&rsquo;m doing in wishing to
see the Evidence of Love is freeing Creation up from the bondage of my
definitions of matter and the laws of physics. I am freeing it up from
those so that it can, in a completely unfettered manner, identify God
[snap of the fingers] now and I am not holding it to a process in time.
That&rsquo;s what you&rsquo;re doing when you say, I wish to see the
Evidence of Love.

There are robots being developed, humungous, that a human being can get
inside of and take hold of controls and the machine will duplicate the
acts of the human being&rsquo;s body, but on a large scale so that
things requiring a great deal more strength can be accomplished. Can you
imagine climbing into one of those machines in the morning and, you
might say, walking out to do your job with the power of this humungous
machine and experiencing it all day long, and then at 5 o&rsquo;clock,
climbing out, and just being this puny little, in your mind,
flesh-and-blood thing by comparison who can&rsquo;t lift more than 150
pounds and who gets tired out, can you imagine the depression that one
would experience after being so powerful all day long, apparently
through the use of this tiny body? Well, what I want you to understand
is that right now you are feeling tiny, you are feeling powerless, you
are feeling limited.

And waking up is the reverse of the illustration I just gave you; coming
into the Singularity of your Whole Mind, of your Mind being Whole and
infinitely all-inclusive, and that this is your Identity. Coming into
this Awareness is, for lack of better words, an expansion into the
Experience of Infinity, Wholeness, that is, for lack of better words,
huge.

And the key lies in releasing everything from the bondage you have
placed it under as a result of applying laws of matter to it and
definitions of it that say it is capable of sin, sickness and death;
deterioration is inevitable; blah, blah, blah.

Write the word &ldquo;Healing&rdquo; on a slip of paper and put it on
your refrigerator all by itself, just to remind you of a focus for your
attention this week. Mind you, I haven&rsquo;t given you hard work. It
will take some self-discipline, but it doesn&rsquo;t take a monster
robot for you to connect with in order to do it. It takes you doing even
less than you&rsquo;ve been doing. It takes you neglecting to energize
fear. It takes you neglecting to determine that you&rsquo;re bound to
die, or someone else is bound to die, because of an illness. It takes
you neglecting to reinforce limitation. And it takes you, instead, to
wish to see the Evidence of Love and to wish to be the Evidence of Love
and nothing else, and to do this no matter what you&rsquo;re engaged in,
in your day.

You can look at it and say, &ldquo;Well, if this isn&rsquo;t matter, and
if this isn&rsquo;t all ego dynamics going on here, and if it really is
God and none of us are seeing it, what is the Truth here? I wish to see
the Evidence of Love and I wish to be the Evidence of Love by caring
enough to wish to see the Evidence of Love.&rdquo;

And with that I&rsquo;ll say I have enjoyed being with you again, and I
look forward to being with you next week.

You might call this the fun part of the Course. Enjoy this next week.
Enjoy observing healing. Enjoy seeing the embodiment of Love where it
didn&rsquo;t seem like it was possible it could be embodied. And
remember that the reason you&rsquo;re seeing it embodied is because you
neglected to hold Creation to your puny, tiny, defensive, conflicted
perception of it.

[^1]: T7.4 The Recognition of Truth

