---
title: May 2, 2004
ref: "T7.5 Healing and the Changelessness of Mind"
alink: "/acim/text/07/chap0705/"
---

Good afternoon. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet as well.

How many of you have the feeling that when we get together like this,
it&rsquo;s wonderful, but then you go home and what we&rsquo;ve talked
about seems so far removed from your daily experience that it&rsquo;s
hard to see any relevance? Well, the idea that it&rsquo;s far removed is
absurd. If it&rsquo;s not relevant to every single moment of your day,
it&rsquo;s useless, and we might as well all go home right now. But
it&rsquo;s far from useless, and it&rsquo;s absolutely relevant.

The last couple of weeks, we&rsquo;ve been using the word
&ldquo;Singularity,&rdquo; indicating that your Mind is a Singularity,
and it is inseparable from and identical with the Mind of God. And
that&rsquo;s where you get in trouble, because you go home and you
forget that your Mind is the very Presence of God, individualized by God
as Himself Expressed right where you are. God does not express Himself
and create an entity called you, and you, and you, so that there are a
whole lot of created entities that God created, but are somehow
distinctly different or separate from God. God is embodying Himself
infinitely; infinitely individualizing Himself without dividing Himself
up in any way, shape, or form.

Now perhaps an easier way to see your week in between these Gatherings,
these meetings, as not so irrelevant to what we&rsquo;re discussing is
to understand that you only have one Mind. You don&rsquo;t have two. You
don&rsquo;t have a Divine Mind that God Is Being right there where you
are, and then another mind called an ego. You don&rsquo;t have two
minds. You are yourself a Singularity. That Singularity is pure
Conscious Awareness&mdash;Mind&mdash;and it&rsquo;s either being used
truly or it&rsquo;s being used poorly. But there&rsquo;s just one Mind.
And what the Course does is to help bring you back into an awareness of
this fact, so that you may choose to use your Mind well, instead of in a
conflicted manner.

You are each the Christ at this moment, either fully aware of What You
Truly Are, or you have filled your awareness with a concept of yourself
and definitions you have made-up, and you&rsquo;re governing your lives,
your consciousness of things, by means of those definitions or concepts.
But it&rsquo;s a Singular Mind. It&rsquo;s the one and only Conscious
Awareness that is the Presence of You. So, again, what you&rsquo;re
beginning to learn to do is to use this one Mind that is the Christ of
You well, instead of in a sloppy, careless and confused manner.

I&rsquo;ve brought out that there is a Place of Excellence in each of
you. Well, this word &ldquo;excellence&rdquo; can be used in a general
way like, &ldquo;Yes, I can choose to do things excellently.&rdquo; The
word &ldquo;excellent&rdquo; has a small &ldquo;e&rdquo;. Here&rsquo;s a
real practical way of putting it. As you were growing up, your mom and
your dad said, &ldquo;Now you be a good girl. You be a good boy.&rdquo;,
and then you would go and do things, &ldquo;Oh, good girls don&rsquo;t
do that. Good boys don&rsquo;t do that.&rdquo;, and so you began to
acquire a set of ideas as to what a good boy does and what a bad boy
does; and what a good girl does, and what a good girl doesn&rsquo;t do.
Right? And, if you were a cooperative type person, you tried to embody
all the things that a good boy and a good girl does, and if you were an
angry girl or boy, you chose to do all the things that a bad girl does
and all the things that a bad boy does, just to get even. Either way you
were choosing to act on the basis of a set of rules. And in that way,
let&rsquo;s say that you chose to be a good girl and a good boy, you
grew up learning to do things in a way that you could call excellent.

Now, when I say there&rsquo;s a Place of Excellence in you, that&rsquo;s
not the Excellence I&rsquo;m talking about. Because that excellence is
an educated excellence. You see what I&rsquo;m saying? It&rsquo;s not
something inherent in you as an unalterable State of your Being. The
Excellence in you has a capital &ldquo;E&rdquo;, because it&rsquo;s
derived from your Source, That Which Is Being right there where you
are&mdash;God.

When you get up and go through your day, most of you go through it
&hellip; mm &hellip; trying to be a good girl or a good boy still, no
matter how old this boy and girl are. And you can go through your whole
week without ever thinking about God, without being aware that you have
a Partner, at the least, that you have a present, active Source of your
Being which is Being You each moment new.

The Course and I are encouraging you to remember God, to bring the
Awareness of the Presence of God into your day so that you might
remember that you have a resource that is really a Source, with a
capital &ldquo;S&rdquo;, that you can draw upon if you invite It in,
that will allow you to be quote &ldquo;in the world&rdquo; from a Real
Place of Excellence that is healing and transformational.

So if you go out, if you go home today, back into the world, and
remember that it&rsquo;s a simple matter of choosing to come from a
Place of Excellence in you, and then remembering that that Place of
Excellence has a capital &ldquo;E&rdquo;, that it is Divine, and
therefore it is intrinsically Valuable, with a capital &ldquo;V&rdquo;,
then you will be able to bring that Excellence into a more relevant
position in your mind as you encounter every activity of your day. And
you will be able to do it without becoming spiritual, weird.

We&rsquo;re talking about healing. Healing of your mind. Healing of your
mind means the transition from independent activity based upon the idea
that you are an independent mind that somehow is lodged in a brain in
your body, and all of it is purely physical, we&rsquo;re talking about
transitioning from that to a renewal of your Connection with God, so
that God becomes pertinent in the most practical of ways in your daily
life. So that everything that you have been doing, because you have
based your actions upon concepts and definitions of yourself that were
learned, may begin to break down, dissolve, and yield to a new way of
Being, which is really your original way of Being. So that you might be
the Light of the world. So that you might be that which is a determining
factor in uncovering the Kingdom of Heaven which is the only thing in
your face right where you had been seeing a physical world with physical
human beings, and nothing else. It&rsquo;s time for the Kingdom of
Heaven to be re-illuminated to you and to your Brothers.

Let&rsquo;s go to the book.

The heading is:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*Healing and the Changelessness of Mind*[^1]

The body is nothing more than a framework for developing abilities. It
is therefore a means for developing POTENTIALS, which is quite apart
from what the potential is used FOR. THAT is a DECISION.

It is therefore a means for developing POTENTIALS&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what potentials? Well, the potentials I&rsquo;ve been talking
about. The Illumination of the Kingdom of Heaven. The Illumination of
Reality. Where? Not out there, but in your Mind. Because the
definitions you have in your Mind are determining what you&rsquo;re
seeing out there. It isn&rsquo;t changing the Kingdom of Heaven that is
out there, but it&rsquo;s determining whether or not you&rsquo;re
seeing the Kingdom of Heaven, or a physical universe that has nothing
to do with God and started from a big bang.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The effects of the ego&rsquo;s decision in this matter are so apparent
that they need no elaboration here, but the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s decision
to use the body ONLY for communication has such a direct connection with
healing that it DOES need clarification. The unhealed healer OBVIOUSLY
does not understand his own vocation.
</div>

Well, do we have any healers in the room? Do any of you think of
yourselves as healers? Not usually. But if you&rsquo;re looking at
things and not seeing What They Really Are, and if everyone else is
looking at them and not seeing What They Are and you all agree on what
you&rsquo;re seeing, then there is a call for healing. And because it is
your Birthright to be in your right Mind, then it&rsquo;s your
Birthright to be the ones who uncover Reality more clearly by becoming
open to the direct experience of It right here and right now. So
you&rsquo;re all healers. Why? Another reason is because you need to be
healed, because you deserve to see What&rsquo;s Really Going On here.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The unhealed healer OBVIOUSLY does not understand his own vocation.
</div>

The unhealed healer doesn&rsquo;t even know he has a vocation.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
ONLY minds communicate. Since the ego CANNOT obliterate the impulse to
communicate because it is also the impulse to create, the ego can only
teach you that the BODY can both communicate AND create, and therefore
does not NEED the mind. The ego thus tries to teach you that the body
can ACT like the mind, and is therefore self-sufficient. Yet we have
learned that behavior is NOT the level for either teaching OR learning.
</div>

Can you see that?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; behavior is NOT the level for either teaching OR learning.
</div>

Your behavior expresses always the way you identify yourself. If you are
identifying yourself as a private mind, or even a private
&ldquo;I&rdquo;, one that can see things the way it chooses to see them
and can make-up imaginative descriptions and definitions of things and
then believe them, and thereby make them true, your behavior will
express that and healing can&rsquo;t come from it.

On the other hand, if you choose to go within to that Place of
Excellence, because you know that Place of Excellence has a capital
&ldquo;E&rdquo; and it means something beyond whatever your current best
definitions are, you are choosing to join with something outside your
memory banks. You are choosing to join with That Which Is Divine. Now
because of that decision and choice, you prime yourself for inspiration,
the influx of vision that is True, and when that happens, your behavior
changes. But still, the behavior isn&rsquo;t what does the healing.
It&rsquo;s the Clarity of Mind. It&rsquo;s the Movement of Conscious
Awareness back into its natural Singularity where it is not choosing to
act independent of the Father, and the inspiration of True Vision causes
you to see with new eyes.

It is that inspiration which is then communicated to the Brotherhood,
because there are no private thoughts and it blesses everyone because,
remember, this Singularity is all-inclusive. Remember that I said when
you move into that Singularity, although it feels as you do it as though
you&rsquo;re becoming more private and more separate and more tiny, you
find that as you move into that Experience of Singularity, it is huge,
it&rsquo;s Infinite, and it does include All of Creation.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet we have learned that behavior is NOT the level for either teaching
OR learning. This must be so, since you CAN act in accordance with what
you do NOT believe. To do this, however, will weaken you as teachers AND
learners because, as has been repeatedly emphasized, you teach what you
DO believe. An inconsistent lesson will be poorly taught AND POORLY
LEARNED. If you teach both sickness AND healing you are both a poor
teacher AND a poor learner.
</div>

Now it&rsquo;s very easy for all of you to teach what it&rsquo;s like to
be a human being. It&rsquo;s very easy for you to teach each other what
foods are not healthy for you and what foods are. You can all teach each
other how to avoid the illnesses, the sicknesses, that come around
seasonally. It&rsquo;s very easy for you to teach how not to be sick as
a defense against being sick. Right? That&rsquo;s confused thinking,
because you are stating sickness is real. It&rsquo;s inevitable or very
likely, but you can avoid it by behaving in such-and-such a way and
doing such-and-such a thing.

But you know what? You have a capacity to teach each other how to
overcome the liability to be ill. Period. That, however, comes not from
training, not from learning, not from education, but from moving into
that Experience of Singularity that occurs when you, with persistence
and gentleness, choose to go within to the Altar and to open up to the
Holy Spirit. In other words, to go into that Place of Excellence in you
so that the Truth might be revealed to you, where you Know it down to
the tips of your toes, and in that Knowing, are aware of your utter
invulnerability to anything other than perfect, pure Harmony in which
dissonance, or dis-ease, cannot occur.

Now, if you will let yourself into that Experience and nurture it by
continuing to invite it, you will begin to teach how to&mdash;and this
isn&rsquo;t the best word&mdash;overcome the liability to be ill. This
is significant. You all have the capacity to use your Mind in an
unconflicted way so that what you teach, you learn, and what you teach
well, you learn well, because you&rsquo;re not teaching conflict.
Because you&rsquo;re not teaching conflict, you don&rsquo;t learn
conflict.

Now, every day, unconsciously, you teach each other how to be human
beings. You do it without even thinking about it. It&rsquo;s pure habit.
But what the world needs is someone who&rsquo;s willing to teach how to
be Divine Being; not Divine Beings, but Divine Be-ing&mdash;a verb.

And again, you can do that without being spiritual and weird. I&rsquo;m
saying that repetitively today so that you might embrace what I&rsquo;m
talking about more easily, knowing that what comes forth within you to
be taught will be recognizably of value, and will come across in a
gentle and unsurprising way that will nevertheless be transformational,
because it will not reinforce the mutually-agreed-upon definitions and
will leave an opening for aha&rsquo;s to occur in those around you. And
as you provide those opportunity for aha&rsquo;s, you learn the
aha&rsquo;s yourself. You see, there&rsquo;s the Singularity of it
again. What you give, you get. What you teach, you learn. The Love you
extend is the Love that you receive. Why? Because there&rsquo;s only one
thing going on&mdash;a Perfect Singularity.

That&rsquo;s why nothing works well when you give to get, because
you&rsquo;ve divided up a Singularity and you are being in an
un-singular or divided way, and so what you get back is not a
Singularity. What you learn is continued confusion. It&rsquo;s really
very simple. It&rsquo;s not punishment. If you do something that
doesn&rsquo;t work, it doesn&rsquo;t work. And when you change and do
something that does work, it does work. Just because that&rsquo;s the
way it is. Not because in one instance you were a bad girl, or a bad
boy, and the next instance you were a good girl, or a good boy, and got
a gold star. You see?

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Healing is the one ability which everyone can develop and MUST develop,
if he is to be healed.
</div>

You see? You see why? Because it&rsquo;s all a Singularity. So if you
want to be healed, you&rsquo;ve got to be a healing Presence.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Healing is the one ability which everyone can develop and MUST develop,
if he is to be healed. Healing is the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s form of
communication, and the ONLY one He knows.
</div>

Why is that? Because it&rsquo;s the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s Function to
bring you back into your right Mind. It&rsquo;s the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s
Function to disclose to you that It is your right Mind. It is your right
Mind&rsquo;s Purpose to bring you back into full awareness of It so that
you may be wholly (w-h-o-l-l-y) Sane.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; recognizes no other &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; form of communication &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; because he does not accept the ego&rsquo;s confusion of mind
and body. Minds can communicate, but they CANNOT hurt. The body in the
service of the ego can hurt other BODIES, but this cannot occur unless
the body has ALREADY been confused with the mind.
</div>

What does that mean, &ldquo;the body confused with the mind&rdquo;?
It&rsquo;s simple. When you think that your mind is a result of
circuitry and synapses in a piece of flesh inside your skull called a
brain, you think that your body is your mind. And you think that your
mind is the seat of intelligence for your body telling it what to do,
keeping it running. You see? Body and mind are synonymous. They&rsquo;re
inseparable according to the current definitions of human beings. You
see? Mind and body are seen as the same thing.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The body in the service of the ego &hellip;
</div>

In other words, in the service of the ideas and concepts which you
believe identify you to you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The body in the service of the ego can hurt other BODIES, but this
cannot occur unless the body has ALREADY been confused with the mind.
This fact, too, can be used either for healing or for magic, but you
must remember that magic is ALWAYS the belief that healing is HARMFUL.
</div>

&ldquo;Oh, my God, if I have a real healing, if I have a sudden shift of
perception and a miracle happens to me, and I suddenly see things as
they are and my life is transformed, my body is transformed, everybody
will be able to see that I&rsquo;m Divine, and that will utterly ruin my
life. I won&rsquo;t fit in any more. I&rsquo;ll stand out like a sore
thumb. I&rsquo;ll be the object of fascinated attention that I
won&rsquo;t ever be able to get away from. I&rsquo;ll be the center of
attention, because obviously in everyone else&rsquo;s eyes, I will be
very special. Oh, my God! Don&rsquo;t let this happen to me. I
don&rsquo;t want real healing. I&rsquo;d rather have magic. I&rsquo;d
rather have a potion, a medication, a system of thought, do it for me so
that nobody ever thinks that my own Clarity of Mind, my own Singularity
of Mind, might be responsible for healing and transformation.&rdquo;

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is its totally insane premise, and so it proceeds accordingly.

Healing only STRENGTHENS.
</div>

Why? Because healing is a shift of perception that brings you back into
Singularity, the absence of conflict. Singularity, without parts that
aren&rsquo;t functioning well together, is another description of
Integrity, isn&rsquo;t it? That which is integrated.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Healing only STRENGTHENS.
</div>

You might say, &ldquo;Healing only integrates. Healing only uncovers
Singularity.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Magic ALWAYS tries to weaken.
</div>

Why? Because it&rsquo;s always making one thing responsible for another.
This against that. This for that. And it&rsquo;s always things doing
things to things without one&rsquo;s mind having to change.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Healing perceives NOTHING in the healer that everyone else does not
SHARE with him. Magic ALWAYS sees something &ldquo;special&rdquo; in the
healer, which he believes he can offer as a gift to someone who does NOT
have it. He may believe that the gift comes FROM God to Him, but it is
quite evident that he does not understand God if he thinks he has
something that others LACK.
</div>

So when you think you have a gift of healing that someone else
doesn&rsquo;t have, you are energizing a mind that is believing the
impossible&mdash;that two opposing things can exist simultaneously, that
there is not a Singularity which holds everyone and everything
unalterably in equality.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You might well ask, then, why some healing CAN result from this kind of
thinking, and there is a reason for this:

However misguided the &ldquo;magical healer&rdquo; may be, he is ALSO
trying to help. He is conflicted and unstable, but AT TIMES he is
offering something to the Sonship, and the only thing the Sonship can
ACCEPT is healing.
</div>

In other words, because You are the Christ, and because the desire to be
good and the desire to have affection for your Brother and the desire to
care for your Brother is inseparable from the Christ That You Are, then,
if, even in your confusion about Who You Are, you have moments of truly
caring for your Brother, even though at the same time you think you have
a talent given to you by God that your Brother doesn&rsquo;t have, that
which is genuine in your desire becomes embodied. In other words, you do
manage to create with God that which is Eternal, even in the midst of
your dreaming.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
However misguided the &ldquo;magical healer&rdquo; may be, he is ALSO
trying to help. He is conflicted and unstable, but AT TIMES he is
offering something to the Sonship, and the only thing the Sonship can
ACCEPT is healing. When the so-called &ldquo;healing&rdquo; works, then,
the impulse to help and to BE helped have coincided.
</div>

In other words, the Extension of Love has been made, and the willingness
of the magical healer to be blessed by the influx of Love passing
through him, blesses him as well. Because, you might say in a moment of
weakness, he didn&rsquo;t see himself as the source of the healing, and
he was willing to be the recipient of the healing, just as the one
needing healing was willing to stand in receipt of the healing. And so
that willingness constituted a Singularity.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is coincidental&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; [laughing] coincidental. And the magical healer might say it
was a fluke.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is coincidental, because the healer may NOT be experiencing himself
as truly helpful at the time, but the belief that he IS, in the mind of
another, helps HIM.
</div>

Here we have the Singularity again. The healer may not think that
he&rsquo;s being truly helpful, but the one that he&rsquo;s extending
the help to sees the healer as an agent for change, as being helpful.
And so the one being healed, seeing the healer as helpful, is seeing
something True about the healer, and that Gift is made, making it
possible for the healer to be blessed. Why? Because it&rsquo;s all a
Singularity. It&rsquo;s not this being done to that. It&rsquo;s a
Wholeness always.

It&rsquo;s important to get this point because you&rsquo;re all,
I&rsquo;m going to say, bound in this Singularity of Being. You&rsquo;re
all held in this Singularity of Being, and what you think and what you
believe is communicated. So what are you going to be teaching? You
better be teaching what you want to be learning. You better be giving
what you want to stand in receipt of, because you shall surely receive
it. Because whether you are ignoring the way things are Truly, or not,
it&rsquo;s still a Singularity, it&rsquo;s still the Ultimate.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that which is nothing more than your right Mind &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; does NOT work by chance, and healing that is of Him ALWAYS
works. Unless the healer ALWAYS heals by Him&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the results WILL vary. Yet healing itself IS consistence, since
ONLY consistence is conflict-free, and only the conflict-free ARE whole.
</div>

Or, are a Singularity.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
By accepting exceptions and acknowledging that he can sometimes heal and
sometimes not, the healer is OBVIOUSLY accepting inconsistency. He is
therefore IN conflict and TEACHING conflict.
</div>

You could say, &ldquo;He is therefore inconsistent and teaching
inconsistency.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Can anything of God NOT be for all and for always?

Love is incapable of ANY exceptions. Only if there is fear does the IDEA
of exceptions seem to be meaningful. Exceptions are fearful because they
are made BY fear. The &ldquo;fearful healer&rdquo; is a contradiction in
terms, and is therefore a concept which ONLY a conflicted mind could
possibly perceive as meaningful.
</div>

Or valuable.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Fear does NOT gladden. Healing DOES. Fear ALWAYS makes exceptions.
Healing NEVER does.
</div>

Why? Because healing is the Idea and Fact of Singularity being extended
for the Purpose of Conscious Reception and Conscious Awareness of It.
And what is Singular has no variations, no exceptions.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Fear produces dissociation because it induces SEPARATION. Healing ALWAYS
produces harmony because it proceeds from integration.
</div>

Here it is again. Integration. The coming into Conscious Awareness of
the Singularity of Being that is all-inclusive.

With all of this talk about healing, is there any possible way that you
could think that the Course is not about healing? Is there any way you
could think that the experience of healing&mdash;physical, mental, the
healing of a Brother or a Sister by virtue of your going within and
listening for the Voice for Truth&mdash;is there any way you could think
that healing is not inseparable from the Truth that we&rsquo;re talking
about, and that somehow you could experience a blissful state of mind in
which the need for healing didn&rsquo;t disappear, but you were no
longer bothered by it, where you were at peace with your infirmity? Is
it conceivable to you that such a thing is what the Course is talking
about? I hope not.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Healing is predictable because it can be counted on.
</div>

That&rsquo;s like saying, &ldquo;Awakening is inevitable.&rdquo;
It&rsquo;s predictable because it is inevitable.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
EVERYTHING that is of God can be counted on, because everything of God
is wholly REAL. Healing can be counted on BECAUSE it is inspired by His
Voice, and is in accord with His laws.
</div>

In other words, Perfection is your Birthright when? At every moment
that you are Conscious. I&rsquo;m not even going to say now as opposed
to the future. It doesn&rsquo;t have anything to do with time. It has
to do with Mind. And every moment that you are experiencing Being,
which is a an Experience of Being Conscious, is the time for healing,
because Wholeness is what the Conscious Experience of Being is about.
It is what it is an experience of. So it is inevitable that you will
come into that experience because it&rsquo;s the only one going on.

But it&rsquo;s one that you don&rsquo;t see and will not see as long as
you are entertaining conflicted thinking. There is illness. There is
disease. There are medical solutions to it which are called magic. You
don&rsquo;t have to be ill; all you have to have is antibiotics. You
don&rsquo;t have to be ill; just don&rsquo;t get around somebody with a
contagious disease. Let me ask you this. What more inspiring thing could
happen than for someone to dare to be in the presence of another with a
contagious disease, who not only has no fear of disease, or of catching
it, because he&rsquo;s coming from a place beyond the liability to be
ill, whose Peace and Equanimity, Balance and Love are so different from
what this person with a contagious condition has been confronted by,
because all he&rsquo;s been confronted with is fear of him, what more
inspiring thing could happen than for this person, this fearless person
of Singular Awareness, would present by being in the presence of the one
with the contagious disease?

What singular thing might have a more profound effect for that
one&rsquo;s healing than this kind of experience? Because if this person
who everyone believes is subject to the communicable disease, whatever
horrible one it is, if this person is not afraid, if this person is
teaching invulnerability by being the presence of the absence of fear,
what do you think the effect of that might be? That the person who has
the communicable disease doesn&rsquo;t need to be afraid either. And if
he doesn&rsquo;t have to be afraid, then in the absence of that fear, he
can experience spontaneous remission or spontaneous healing. What needs
to be taught is that one can get beyond the liability to be ill, beyond
the conflict of threat of disease and successful battling of it and
overcoming of it.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Healing can be counted on BECAUSE it is inspired by His Voice&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; God&rsquo;s &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and is in accord with His laws. Yet if healing IS consistence,
it cannot be inconsistently understood. Understanding MEANS consistence
because GOD means consistence.
</div>

[laughing] That means that there are no lumps in God. The consistency is
smooth.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Understanding MEANS consistence because GOD means consistence. Since
that is HIS meaning, it is also YOURS.
</div>

Why? Because it&rsquo;s all a Singularity. Whether we&rsquo;re talking
about God and you, or you and your fellowman, it&rsquo;s all one
Singularity. So whatever is God&rsquo;s is yours, and whatever is yours
is your Brother&rsquo;s, and whatever is your Brother&rsquo;s is yours.
That&rsquo;s why your choice to let in Truth as your Conscious
Experience, not as a fantastic thought but as your Conscious Experience,
blesses your Brothers, because it&rsquo;s all a Singularity. And
that&rsquo;s why your conflicted thinking tends to support your
Brother&rsquo;s conflicted thinking.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Since that is HIS &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; God&rsquo;s &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; meaning, it is also YOURS. Your meaning cannot BE out of accord
with His because your whole meaning, and your ONLY meaning, comes FROM
His and is LIKE His. God cannot be out of accord with HIMSELF&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; I said, &ldquo;He&rsquo;s not lumpy. He&rsquo;s smooth.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God cannot be out of accord with HIMSELF, and YOU cannot be out of
accord with Him. You cannot separate your SELF from your Creator, Who
created you by &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; What?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; sharing HIS Being WITH you.
</div>

And I&rsquo;m going to say, &ldquo;as You.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The unhealed healer &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the worker of magic &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; wants gratitude FROM his brothers, but he is not grateful TO
them.
</div>

You see, when you think you have something that your Brother
doesn&rsquo;t have, and you give it to your Brother, you think you have
lost something, and therefore you have no reason to be grateful to the
Brother you gave it to.

[To someone in the audience] Are you frowning? No.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is because he thinks he is GIVING something TO them, and is NOT
receiving something equally desirable in return.
</div>

In other words, the unhealed healer is not inspired by the Conscious
Experience of Singularity, which is an Experience of Wholeness and
Equality.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
His &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the unhealed healer&rsquo;s &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; TEACHING is limited because he is LEARNING so little.
</div>

You see? If you think you&rsquo;re giving something to somebody that
doesn&rsquo;t have, and if you think you are losing something in the
process, and if you think the process is not a Wholeness occurring,
it&rsquo;s impossible to think that you&rsquo;re standing in a position
of receiving anything in return. And so you won&rsquo;t see your act of
giving as something you can stand in receipt of.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
His &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the unhealed teacher&rsquo;s &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; TEACHING is limited because he is LEARNING so little. His
healing lesson is limited by his own ingratitude, which is a lesson in
SICKNESS.
</div>

Remember that. Ingratitude is a lesson in sickness.

If you&rsquo;re sick, don&rsquo;t take an antibiotic, take a good dose
of gratitude. No, give a big dose of gratitude. Embody gratitude
yourself.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
His healing lesson is limited by his own ingratitude, which is a lesson
in SICKNESS. Learning is constant, and so vital in its power for change
that a Son of God can recognize his power in one instant, and change the
world in the next. That is because, by changing HIS mind, he has changed
the most powerful device that was ever created FOR change.
</div>

And that device is the Mind, the Conscious Experience of Being. Now,
when we use the word &ldquo;Mind,&rdquo; you think of it as a noun, as
an object. But Mind means the Conscious Experience of Being, which is a
Living, Moving Experience.

Now this is important. Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This in no way contradicts the changelessness of mind as GOD created it,
but you think that you HAVE changed it as long as you learn through the
ego. This DOES place you in a position of needing to learn a lesson
which seems contradictory;&mdash;you &hellip;
</div>

Listen to this.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; must learn to change your mind ABOUT your mind.
</div>

You must abandon the confusion, the confused idea that mind and body are
one and the same thing, that mind is a function of a brain, chemical
interactions and electrical spurts, and that you have this mind because,
in order for the body to be what it is, it requires government, it
requires something disciplined to keep it all in order, and it&rsquo;s
all physical. You need to be willing to abandon that. And you need to be
willing to shift into the Conscious Experience of You as being
Consciousness, being Conscious Awareness in which all form is being
experienced, and, as I&rsquo;ve said before, that every single form that
you&rsquo;re experiencing is not physical, but is a pure Idea.

Again, whether it&rsquo;s the flowers in front of you, or the
glass-topped table, or your fingernails, it&rsquo;s not matter.
It&rsquo;s Ideas. And Ideas, again, are perfectly recognizable and
tangible to the Mind that formed them. So they will be Experienceable,
they will have Substance, they will have Tangibility, but it&rsquo;s
simply the fullness of the Experience of the Idea. And just to keep you
from becoming dense about what I&rsquo;ve just said, because it&rsquo;s
an Idea&mdash;the table&mdash;and because it&rsquo;s an Idea&mdash;your
body&mdash;your body can pass through the table without interference.
You can move through the table instead of bunging up your shin against
it, because your body and the table are pure Ideas, even though they are
experienced as having Substance and Form and Tangibility and what
I&rsquo;m going to call Endurance, they continue to be present.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This DOES place you in a position of needing to learn a lesson which
seems contradictory;&mdash;you must learn to change your mind ABOUT your
mind. Only by this can you learn that it IS changeless. When you heal,
that is exactly what you ARE learning. You are recognizing the
changeless mind in your brother by realizing that he COULD not have
changed his mind. That is how you perceive the Holy Spirit in him. It is
ONLY the Holy Spirit in him &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in other words, that which is only his right Mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is ONLY the Holy Spirit in him that never changes His mind. He
himself &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your Brother &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; must think he CAN&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; change his Mind &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; or he would not perceive himself as sick. He therefore does not
know what his self IS.

If YOU see only the changeless in him, you have not really changed him
at all. By changing YOUR mind about his FOR him, you help him UNDO the
change his ego thinks it has made in him.
</div>

And here we&rsquo;re talking about the Singularity again.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
By changing YOUR mind about his FOR him, you help him UNDO the change
his ego thinks it has made in him.
</div>

Again, this is because it&rsquo;s all a Singularity.

Every night Paul says a prayer. He asks for healing for everyone who has
asked for healing, even if the desire for healing was only expressed as
a hope with little faith. Do you see? Paul in his mind does not ask for
healing and express the desire as a hope, and he does not bring little
faith to it. But many do. Many hope things will get better, but they
don&rsquo;t bring a lot of faith to that expressed desire. You and Paul
can speak on behalf of the Brother who has only hope and very little
faith backing it up. You can ask for your Brother from the confidence
you have in the inevitability of healing that doesn&rsquo;t require
hope, because you feel its inevitability. Because it&rsquo;s that
one&rsquo;s Birthright to experience what God has set into place about
him, and I&rsquo;m going to say, by Law, according to God&rsquo;s Laws,
according to the Perfection of God&rsquo;s Being.

And so you could say that you can have confidence for your Brother in
the face of his lack of faith, and that someone is standing on behalf of
him from a strength that he does not currently experience, blesses him
and makes it easier for him to feel the influx of strength, and firmness
replacing the infirmity. All of this because everything is a Singularity
already.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If YOU see only the changeless in him, you have not really changed him
at all.
</div>

Well, what have you done? You&rsquo;ve acknowledged the Truth. You have
seen What Is True about him, that he&rsquo;s already Whole. That no
matter how successfully he thinks he obtained a bill of divorcement from
his Father, it didn&rsquo;t work, and he&rsquo;s inseparable from his
Father, and his Birthright is still his. It&rsquo;s still active.
It&rsquo;s still sitting there, held in trust while he dallies in
ignorance. And that which is held in trust is his Divine Self, and
it&rsquo;s called the Holy Spirit, the Place of Excellence, the Altar
that&rsquo;s in him. It&rsquo;s already there and it&rsquo;s already
full of What He Has Always Been.

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you have not really changed him at all. By changing YOUR mind
about his FOR him, you help him UNDO the change his ego thinks it has
made in him. As you can hear two voices, so you can see in two ways. One
way shows you an image, or better, an idol, which you may worship out of
fear, but which you will never love. The other shows you only truth,
which you will love because you will UNDERSTAND it. Understanding is
APPRECIATION, because what you understand you can IDENTIFY with, and by
making it part of YOU, you have accepted it with love.

As you can hear two voices, so you can see in two ways.
</div>

Let me promise you, those are the only choices you have. You can&rsquo;t
see in three ways, or four ways, or ten ways, or a hundred ways. You can
only see in two ways. One is clearly and one is unclearly. You can see
Truly, or you can see What Is True in a distorted way. And those are the
only two choices you have.

And the you that is making the choice is the one Singularity called
Mind, or Conscious Awareness, that is absolutely Singular. There may be
two ways of seeing things, but there aren&rsquo;t two minds to see them
with. There&rsquo;s one Mind seeing clearly or unclearly. Now I&rsquo;m
trying to simplify this for you so that you are not confused. You are
the Christ right now, behaving as though you&rsquo;re not, and believing
your behavior. Now I&rsquo;ve said it. I have described the problem of
being and the answer of Being in one sentence, and I haven&rsquo;t
violated the Fact of the Singularity of Being.

And if you will contemplate that sentence, you will find that it
describes the problem that you&rsquo;re having, but it also states the
unalterable Truth about You that empowers you to abandon the confusion
that seems to govern you. Why? Because you aren&rsquo;t an unlearned
mind trying to learn and refine itself through eons of time.
You&rsquo;re the one and only Mind there is, being a little wacko at the
moment, which you&rsquo;re quite capable of doing. It serves no purpose.
It creates for you a meaningless experience which you can imaginatively
apply meaning to. But you can&rsquo;t change the fact that right at this
instant, you&rsquo;re the Christ, You are the Ultimate, and you
don&rsquo;t have to behave wacko any more. Knowing that let&rsquo;s you
know that a new decision now will give you a new experience now.
You&rsquo;re not stuck in anything. This is the good news.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Understanding is APPRECIATION, because what you understand you can
IDENTIFY with, and by making it part of YOU, you have accepted it with
love.

That is how God Himself created YOU; in understanding, in appreciation,
and in love. The ego is totally unable to understand this because it
does NOT understand what it makes; it does NOT appreciate it, and it
does NOT love it. It incorporates to TAKE AWAY. It literally believes
that every time it deprives someone of something, IT has increased.
</div>

You all do understand that. You get somebody to take something, take
less for more. You can either charge someone more than it&rsquo;s worth
and so you&rsquo;ve taken from them, or if they have something that they
don&rsquo;t know the worth of that they&rsquo;re selling, you can buy it
for the price they&rsquo;re selling it, knowing that you just gypped
them out of a lot more, because they were ignorant of its real value.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
We have spoken often of the increase of the Kingdom by YOUR creations,
which can only be created as YOU were.
</div>

Again, here&rsquo;s the Singularity. By being the way you were created,
you add to the Kingdom. The thing to remember, however, is that you
can&rsquo;t do this all by yourself. You can only do this as you let the
Movement of God move through you. And it&rsquo;s in that way that God
expresses Himself through you, and your Gift of the Singularity, and all
that it includes, becomes embodied.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The whole glory and perfect joy that IS the Kingdom lies in you to give.
Do you not WANT to give it?
</div>

Yes, you do. And it&rsquo;s pressuring to get out. It&rsquo;s pressuring
to be given. It&rsquo;s pressuring to be extended. And you know what? As
long as you&rsquo;re committed to your definitions of things, you feel
that pressure as being against you, because it requires you to abandon
the limits that you have imposed upon yourself. And it requires you to
participate in the extension of something that you can&rsquo;t take
personal pride in having created, because you know you weren&rsquo;t the
exclusive author of it. And that&rsquo;s too great an expense, too great
a cost for you to pay. And so you find yourself more and more miserable,
trying to abide in your definitions, in your concepts, because the push
of the more of What You Truly Are against the little that you&rsquo;re
trying to be, is causing your littleness to be a painful experience.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Do you not WANT to give it?
</div>

Yes, you do. And the Holy Spirit is constantly insinuating Itself,
constantly gently pressuring you, constantly, in an un-controlling way,
getting your attention. And you treat It like a mosquito flying around
your face, bugging you, bugging the hell out of you, bothering you,
distracting you. But it will continue.

So when you leave here today, remember that it&rsquo;s not that
unreasonable a thing to choose to drive home embodying in your driving
habits that which comes from a Place of Excellence in You. Just let
there be a desire to be in the Movement of God that everyone else on the
road is in, whether they realize it or not. If they&rsquo;re behaving
poorly, it&rsquo;s because they don&rsquo;t realize it. Somebody needs
to be the one to realize it. Because when you truly realize it, you have
also realized it for the one in the other car, making it easier for him
to get it, whether he does or not. But the point is you&rsquo;re not
joining him in conflicted confusion by coming from the same place he is.
So what we&rsquo;re talking about truly is relevant. And you don&rsquo;t
need to look at everything as though it&rsquo;s so completely different
and completely at odds with what we&rsquo;re talking about.

Everything, because it is some Aspect of Creation, with a capital
&ldquo;C&rdquo;, everything, because it is the Visibility and
Tangibility of God, is susceptible to the acknowledgement of God in it.
Even when it thinks it&rsquo;s something else, it&rsquo;s still
susceptible to the acknowledgement of What Is True about it by anyone
who dares to engage in being conscious of it. You got it! I can tell.
You&rsquo;ve got the idea.

You see, this book isn&rsquo;t about words and concepts and ideas.
It&rsquo;s about you, and it&rsquo;s about the way you&rsquo;re being.
So this week, be a little bit more consciously.

And I look forward to being with you next week.

Okay. You are welcome.

[^1]: T7.5 Healing and the Changelessness of Mind

