---
title: May 23, 2004
ref: T7.6 From Vigilance to Peace
alink: "/acim/text/07/chap0706/"
---

Good afternoon. And welcome to everyone who is joining us on the
Internet as well.

Over the past few weeks I’ve been using a word rather frequently,
“Singularity.” Singularity is like a glass of pure water. There’s
nothing extraneous to the water in it. It’s all water. Mind is a
Singularity. I will say Consciousness is a Singularity. But the
preferable word is “Mind.”

Each of you is likely to say that you have a mind, but as long as you
use that phrase, you will almost inevitably hinder yourself from waking
up. You don’t have a mind. You are Mind. You’re not a body that has a
mind. You are Mind that has the Conscious Experience of body, world,
universe. Mind, because it’s a Singularity, has no boundaries. It’s
infinite and it’s all-inclusive infinitely. You as Mind are that
Awareness of All That Is Infinitely. You share the Perspective of God,
because the Mind that is God that is the Movement of Creation is not
different from the Singularity called Mind that you are.

At the moment you all know that you’re not experiencing All of Creation
infinitely at this moment. It’s very localized, your experience of
consciousness. But I’m telling you that this Mind that you are is
infinitely all-inclusive, and all, universally speaking, is available
for you to experience in addition to this highly localized awareness
that you are limiting yourself to.

So this Infinite Mind isn’t something for you to achieve. It’s something
for you to, I’m going to say, let happen to you. Let happen to you. Let
it in. And what does this mean? In order to let in the Experience of
Singularity which is an Experience of Wholeness because there’s nothing
left outside of It, you must in order to have the Experience of
Singularity be willing to abandon, for lack of better words, your
addiction to conflict. You have to be willing to abandon your commitment
to thinking for yourself in inconsistent ways, we’ll say, straddling the
fence, or trying to embrace two opposing things simultaneously.

I’ve shared before the prayer that Paul says before each Gathering. “Thy
Will, not mine be done. Let the reign of Divine Truth, Life and Love be
established in me.” Well I’ve already stated that Mind is a Singularity.
There’s no alternative to It. It’s already a Singularity. So, the reign
of Divine Truth, Life and Love is already established in you. But the
prayer says, “Let the reign of Divine Truth, Life, and Love be
established in me.” It’s a way of saying, “I am willing to stop
interposing something in addition to what’s already established in me.
I’m willing, I’m asking myself to let It be established in me, to let It
be the only thing there is in me, because It really is the only thing
there is in me.”

“Let the reign of Divine Truth, Life and Love be established in me&hellip;”
And what? “&hellip; . rule out of me all self will.” Well, I know you all
have ideas about what willfulness is, but willfulness is when you’re
introducing, is when you are trying to introduce something into the mix
on your own. Whether it’s a creative idea, whether it’s an angry
feeling, it’s always something original to you. Self will is an
expression of something that is original to you that has left God out of
the picture entirely. Whether it’s a pleasant thing or an unpleasant
thing, it’s when you are introducing stuff all by yourself. When you are
introducing anything on your own, you’re not being a co-creator with
God. It’s that simple.

“Let the reign of Divine Truth, Life and Love be established in me and
rule out of me all self will.” That expresses an intent to be Singular,
which is another way of saying, “Be Whole.”

If you have a glass of water that also has some oil in it, or some
vinegar in it, or any other substance, there’s water and vinegar.
There’s water and that other substance. And so there are places where
there isn’t water, and places where there is water. You have more than
one thing going on in the same space. And it isn’t a whole glass of
water.

When something is Singular, it is Whole. It is wholly what it is
(w-h-o-l-l-y). When there is an expressed intent and desire on your part
to let the reign of Divine Truth, Life and Love, we’ll say, the reign of
What Is Real be established in you and rule out your apparent right that
you think you have to introduce things on your own all by yourself as an
independent authorizer, you are abandoning being an independent
authorizer. And in the absence of your bringing something extra into the
mix, Wholeness is what is left. Singularity is what is left. And the
result of that is the Experience of Singularity, the Experience of the
Integrity of Everything, and the way it all fits, and the way it is
harmonious.

I did say this, “If thine eye be single, thy whole body shall be full of
Light.” Now that’s a literal statement, because the Substance of
Everything, including your body, is Spirit, which is Love, and Love is
Light. And I’ve said it before and I’ll say it again; when your eye
becomes single, when your consciousness, we’ll say, allows only for
Singularity, you will find everything illuminated from within.

The Energy of Spirit that is Love is Light. And the Light has color, and
it has colors you haven’t dreamed of. And the colors express specific
Intent embodied as every single Creation so that you know what a thing
is by its color. You know who an Individual is by the colors. And I’ve
said before, this Light that is Living Love, you experience as loving
you. You are right now loved by absolutely every object you see, because
it ain’t matter. I say this over and over to remind you because you
easily forget. The habit of treating it as though it’s matter, dense
solid matter, is very deeply ingrained. And you need to be reminded to
be looking for something more than what you’re seeing and what you’re
expecting to see because you’re so sure you know what it is.

When the Course speaks of turning toward the Altar, it means doing what
that prayer embodies, doing what that prayer expresses, embodying what
that prayer expresses. “Let the reign of Divine Truth, Life and Love be
established in me.” If that’s not your desire, then you’re not turning
toward the Altar. If you’re turning toward the Altar, it’s because you
want to know the Truth. You want to be infilled with the Truth. You
don’t want to be suffering ignorance any longer. “Let the reign of
Divine Truth, Life and Love be established in me as it already is, and
rule out of me all self will.”

If you think about it, you might come to the conclusion that if you’re
not going to engage in self will, and if self will is an expression of
not being joined with the Father and not listening for His Will, then
you probably won’t end up talking, or acting, or doing anything that
you’ve been used to doing because you’ve been doing it all by yourself.
What will be left? What will be left will be what counts. What will be
left will be you engaging in actions that are truly meaningful, even if
they’re not the ones you’ve been engaging in forever. You will be the
Presence of Love that will bless everyone and that everyone will feel.
And they will be grateful, and they will rejoice that you have abandoned
engaging in self will. You won’t become inactive, but you will begin
doing new things and you will begin being in new ways compared to the
old ways. It will constitute a shift.

And of course, the primary shift will be from getting to giving, from
acting in your self interest to behaving in a way that embraces,
includes, is sensitive to and blesses others. You see, Love is a
Singularity, too. And getting isn’t Love. Self love isn’t Love; selfish
love isn’t Love. And again, until another is the reason for your giving
Love, you won’t know how to Love yourself because you won’t know Who You
Are.

And when you find out What You Are, you will find out that you’re not a
what. When you find out Who You Are, you will find out that you’re not a
who, but that you are a What. What I mean by that is that when you’re
willing to shift into a way of being based on extension, on giving, you
find yourself infilled with the Father’s Love. And you know what? You
find out that you’re not a who, but that What You Are is that which is
worthy of the Father’s Love, that you are the place where the Father
comes into expression. You are a vehicle for all that God is Being. And
you are also the Mind, the Singular Mind that recognizes that your
Function is the recognition and acknowledgement of God in everything.
You might say that the What that you are is, I’m going to say, the
Function in the Mind of God of recognizing. In other words, God
recognizing Himself in everything is What You Are.

When you get up in the morning, what is your expectation? Your
expectation needs to be that from the moment you wake up, you’re going
to be discovering God everywhere. That’s called a mind alert to Good, a
mind alert to Reality.

On the other hand, when you get up in the morning, is this the day
you’re gonna get even with so-and-so? Is this the day you’re gonna stand
up for yourself and tell someone off? You see the difference? Mind you,
I’m not talking about how anyone else is behaving. I’m talking about how
you’re intending to use your mind.

You do something, and somebody says, “You hurt my feelings.” And you
say, “I am sorry. I didn’t intend to.” And the question needs to be
asked, “But did you intend not to?” A Singular Mind intends not to be
the Presence of that which is different from Love. No matter how anyone
else is behaving, you can intend not to behave in a way that is
unloving, even though being the Presence of Love may mean saying “No” to
someone else’s behavior.

Okay. Because all there is, is Mind, and Mind is a Singularity, then
what you would call the Laws of Being are the Laws of Singularity, and
they govern your experience, whether you’re conflicted or unified,
whether you’re disintegrated in the way you’re using my mind&hellip; your
mind or integrated. Therefore, if your mind is Single, Purely Singular,
everything you engage in will embody and express Singularity, Harmony,
Love. But also, because Mind is a Singularity, if you are choosing to be
conflicted, if you are choosing to embrace conflicting feelings, “I love
you [said to one person], but I hate you [said to another person],” as
though you’re capable of doing both, then, because of the Laws of
Singularity, that which is at the heart of the intent will be what is
created. And so, if you’re conflicted, the irreversible result will
always be division.

Do you see how that’s the same law applying? If you are of a Single Eye,
if your Mind is Singular, everything that you do will express Unity, and
you might even say that it will unify. But if you choose to be
conflicted in your mind, everything you do will find expression in
creating division—war, fights, arguments, the attempt to best someone
else, to be better than someone else, division.

Why am I spending so much time? Because once again I’m trying to convey
to you that now are you the Sons of God, Daughters of God. That you’re
neither behind the Point of Perfection nor advancing toward it; you’re
at that Point and must understand yourself therefrom. Because you’re at
that Point, you must begin to see that because you are, there are going
to be certain results to your behavior. If you are going to behave as
though you are the Son of God and you are at the Point of Perfection, if
you choose for that, everything you do will manifest Unity. And because
you’re at the Point of Perfection, and the Laws of Singularity are the
only thing that exist, if you choose to be conflicted within yourself,
then everything that you do, everything that will follow that will
embody and seemingly create the effect of division.

So you’re not trying to become a Singular Mind. You’re not trying to
become equal to an Awakened Being. You are the Ultimate right now. And
it’s a matter&hellip; all it is, is a matter of choice as to how you’re
going to use your mind. That demystifies the process of Awakening. It
also makes clear to you that it isn’t about the future. It’s about the
choices you’re making in the moment. And you can either behave as What
You Truly Are, or you can behave as what you believe you are right now.

A miracle is a sudden shift of perception from, we’ll say, conflicted
thinking to Singular Mind. This week go through your day and ask
yourself whether you intend not to do anything that will hurt someone’s
feelings, whether you intend not to do anything that is unloving,
understanding that being the Presence of Love does mean saying “No” when
inappropriate behavior is going on. I add that so that you don’t think
that you’re suddenly going to become vulnerable to anyone’s behavior
because you’re going to be the Presence of Love and not be bothered by
it. I’m not saying that. That’s not Love.

Okay, let’s go to the book.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego wants no part of truth because the truth is that the EGO is not
true.[^1]
</div>

It not only is not True, it’s not Real. It exists only as a figment of
the imagination, which you’ve chosen to believe is the truth and which
you’re honoring at the present.

Continuing&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If truth is total the untrue CANNOT exist.
</div>

“Let the reign of Divine Truth, Life and Love be established in me, and
rule out of me all self will.” It really means to rule out of me that
which doesn’t really exist. Self will does not exist. Important point.
Write it down. Self will does not exist. You have made it up, and you
act as though what you have made up is true.

Again&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If truth is total the untrue CANNOT exist. Commitment to either must be
TOTAL, since they cannot coexist in your minds WITHOUT splitting them.
</div>

Meaning your minds.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If they cannot coexist in peace, and if you WANT peace, you must give up
the idea of conflict ENTIRELY and for ALL TIME.
</div>

Well, that sounds like a pretty big order. You don’t have to try to do
it for all time. All you have to try to do is be unconflicted in the
moment you’re in. Do I intend not to express something other than Love?
Keep asking all through the day. See that your intent to be the Presence
of Love, see that it means that you intend not to be the absence of
Love. And just do it for now, because that’s how you promote a shift of
perception in practical, embodied ways.

Continuing&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
While you believe that two totally contradictory thought systems SHARE
truth, your need for vigilance is apparent.
</div>

“I know that I am the Presence of Love, but boy, George Bush sure gets
my goat.” You say things like that and you don’t even question the
logic of what you’re saying is so obvious to you. But what you are
overlooking is the use you are putting your mind to. You are saying that
it is possible for you to be Love and yet not be Love at the same time.
It doesn’t matter whether you’re talking about George Bush, or your
wife, or the nasty next door neighbor. It doesn’t matter what the
subject of it is. It matters that you are overlooking the fact that
you’re trying to use your mind in oppositional ways—being Love and being
hate, simultaneously, without noticing it or questioning it. And when
you don’t question it, when you don’t notice it, you’re not being the
Singularity of Mind that You Really Are. And in that act of forgetting,
you lose your Singularity, as well as the Experience of your True
Identity.

So, again&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
While you believe that two totally contradictory thought systems SHARE
truth, your need for vigilance is apparent.
</div>

Not vigilance against George Bush, but vigilance against your
unchallenged attempt to be conflicted, without remembering that conflict
is absolutely impossible to you because of What You Really Are. The
conflict and that use of your mind is insane. It is unintelligent. It is
unreasonable.

Continuing&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your minds ARE dividing their allegiance between two kingdoms, and you
are totally committed to neither.
</div>

Now&hellip;

Your identification with the Kingdom is totally beyond question except
by you, when you are thinking insanely. What you are&hellip; 

Listen to this&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What you are is not established by your perception, and is not
influenced BY it at all.
</div> 

Now you can have millions of different perceptions of things, but it
doesn’t change the thing. “Rule out of me all self will.” Rule out of me
all perceptions that aren’t true, so that I might experience what is
established separate and apart from my perceptions, so that I might
experience Truth, and so that I might be Singular Mind.

Again, this is important.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What you are&hellip; 
</div> 

&hellip; and I’m going to add: And what everything else is, &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is not established by your perception, and is not influenced BY it
at all. All perceived problems in identification at any level are NOT
problems of fact. They are problems of UNDERSTANDING, since they MEAN
that you believe what you can understand IS up to you to decide. The ego
believes this totally, being FULLY committed to it.
</div> 

Perhaps one of the most difficult aspects of awakening is that you have
to ask God what it is you’re supposed to understand, and you have to ask
God what the understanding is, without trying to figure it out for
yourself, or without making up an understanding of it by yourself. You
have to be willing to abandon, for instance, your allegiance to time, so
that you might be in the Flow of Creation, honoring It and rejoicing in
It and reveling in It, and being surprised by It on Its terms. Thy
Will, not mine, be done. That’s the stickler, at least for the ego.

I’m going to go back.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
All perceived problems in identification at any level are NOT problems
of fact. They are problems of UNDERSTANDING, since they MEAN that you
believe what you can understand IS up to you to decide. The ego believes
this totally, being FULLY committed to it. It is not true. The ego
therefore is totally committed to untruth, perceiving in total
contradiction to the Holy Spirit and to the knowledge of God.
</div> 

Now, of course, it’s going to perceive in total contradiction to the
Holy Spirit because this imagined ego states that there is something
going on besides the Singularity that is God. So it says there’s
something else in the water—vinegar—or, let’s say something more
pleasant—honey. It says that the Singularity is divided, therefore it’s
going to perceive everything in total contradiction to the Truth,
because the Truth of everything is Singularity. It can’t see any other
way. That which arose out of an imagined postulate of division is going
to see division, be division, elicit division, and try to manifest
division.

Continuing&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You can be perceived with meaning ONLY by the Holy Spirit because your
being IS the knowledge of God.
</div>

Let’s make this even more relevant. Your Being is the Acknowledgement of
God. Your Function is the Recognition and Acknowledgement of God in each
and every thing. Your Function is to be the awareness of What God Is
Being. It is your Function to be that which glorifies God by seeing
nothing else anywhere.

The book says:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; your being IS the knowledge of God.
</div> 

Well if you are recognizing, delighting in, recognizing and glorifying
God, then you are the Knowledge of God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Any belief that you accept which is apart from this will obscure God’s
Voice in you, and will therefore obscure God TO you.
</div> 

Why will it obscure it? Because you’re giving preference to an
imagination. You’re giving preference to a daydream. You’re giving
preference to a figment of your imagination. Your wrongly placed
attention is obscuring God from you. It is also nullifying your
Function, because you’ve abandoned it temporarily to indulge in the
satisfaction of having a particularly original viewpoint about Creation,
because you’re choosing for a supposedly satisfying expression of self
will.

Continuing&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Unless you perceive His creation truly you cannot know the Creator,
since God and His creation are not separate. The Oneness of the Creator
and the creation is your wholeness, your sanity, and your limitless
power. This limitless power is God’s gift to you because it is what you
ARE.
</div>

Again, you don’t have a mind; you are Mind. Mind is a Singularity. It’s
Whole. It’s Infinite. So there is only one, and that One is God. The
Mind of God is the Mind you are experiencing. But as long as you’re
intent upon having an experience of your own that you’re making up, you
will not have available to you the Sanity of the Experience of your
Unity with God.

Again&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This limitless power is God’s gift to you because it is what you ARE. If
you dissociate your mind from it, you are perceiving the most powerful
force in the universe as if it were weak because you do not believe YOU
are part of it.
</div>

Well not only do you consider it weak, some of you consider that it
doesn’t exist. There is no God. There’s just us mortals doing the best
we can to survive and maybe improve things a little bit for our children
who are also nothing more than a product of our bodies, purely material,
with a brain. And they will have minds of their own, and hopefully we
will have improved things so that they have a head start further along
than we did, and can do better than we did. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you dissociate your mind from it, you are perceiving the most
powerful force in the universe as if it were weak because you do not
believe YOU are part of it.

Perceived WITHOUT your part in it God’s creation IS perceived as weak,
and those who see themselves as weakened&hellip; 
</div> 

&hellip; what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip;DO attack. The attack must be blind, however, because there is
nothing TO attack. Therefore, they make up images, perceive them as
unworthy, &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip;of course. You see, the whole result of this mindset is division.
It’s not going to characterize anything as helpful. And so:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Therefore, they make up images, perceive them as unworthy, and attack
them for their unworthiness. That is all the world of the ego is.
NOTHING. It has no meaning. It does not exist. Do not try to understand
it because, if you do, you are believing that it can BE understood, and
is therefore capable of being appreciated and loved. That would justify
it, and it cannot BE justified. You cannot make the meaningless
meaningful. This can ONLY be an insane attempt.
</div>

So, you know what? We, in a way, are talking about the forms of insanity
that are being employed. But remember that it’s not so that you can
understand insanity, but so that you can see that it is insane, so that
you can see that it doesn’t hold up in the Light of Truth, so that you
can see that it’s not True about you, so that you can see that your
definition of the world is not True about Creation. And as you begin to
be willing to question the way you’re seeing things, you will open the
door for genuine curiosity to come into play to see things as they truly
are according to God’s Understanding of everything.

Which brings us back to that powerful word “Yield.” Doesn’t sound like
power does it? You can’t yield, you know, you can’t wield yielding.
Yielding is to your mindset, passive. It’s not doing anything yourself.
But it’s a powerful word because it cuts through the dream. It cuts
through the illusion. It cuts through the suffering, the sin, the
disease, the death. It triggers miracles. It triggers sudden shifts of
perception whereby you come back, step by step perhaps, into your right
Mind.

Continuing&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Allowing insanity to enter your minds means that you have not judged
sanity as WHOLLY DESIRABLE.
</div>

I know at one time or another, every single one of you have said, “If I
were to yield to God’s Will completely right now, I wouldn’t fit in
anymore. No one would understand me. I would be ostracized. I would run
into difficulties. And therefore, it’s not worth it to me!” So you have
not judged Sanity as wholly desirable. Off the top of your head you
would say, “Well, of course, I judge Sanity as wholly desirable, just
don’t tell me the details of what that means.”

Continuing&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you WANT something else you will MAKE something else, but because it
IS something else it will attack your thought system and divide your
allegiance.
</div>

If you want something else but God’s Will, if you want something else
but Truth, you will make something up. Now, when you make something up,
the first thing you’re going to have to make-up is some presence to make
it up, and that’s called the ego. And now we don’t have pure water
anymore. We don’t have pure God anymore. We have God and this little
speck of nothing that thinks it’s something, that’s trying to assert
itself. And the result, whatever proceeds from that action, will attack
your thought system, meaning the thought system of the Christ That You
Are, and divide your allegiance. Division is the inevitable result of an
intent that is conflicted.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You cannot create in this divided state, and you must be vigilant
AGAINST this divided state because only peace can BE extended.
</div>

You can only give What Is Whole. Division cannot be extended. But
division practiced in your mind will keep you from experiencing your
Wholeness and the Wholeness of the Infinitude of your Being that is All
of Creation.

Continuing&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your divided minds are blocking the extension of the Kingdom, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip;why? Because they’re creating division.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your divided minds are blocking the extension of the Kingdom, and its
extension IS your joy.
</div>

It’s your Function. It’s your Nature. It’s you being in your right Mind.
And I’ll tell you, it feels good. It’s your Joy.

Continuing&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you do not extend the Kingdom, you are not thinking with your Creator
and creating as He created.
</div>

In other words, the Singularity of you isn’t finding expression where
Like begets Like, and the Like that is begotten is harmonious,
because it is arisen out of a consciously Singular Experience of Mind,
of being Conscious Awareness.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In this depressing state the Holy Spirit&hellip; 
</div> 

&hellip;that which is nothing more than your right Mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip;reminds you gently that you are sad&hellip; 
</div> 

It doesn’t gloss it over. It says you’re sad. It makes you look at the
fact that you’re sad. It makes you acknowledge that you’re not really
happy, even though in your giddiness you bubbled over with apparent
happiness and fooled even yourself a little bit. It says, it reminds you
gently that you are sad. Why? So that you can see that there’s a call
for correction that you haven’t been paying attention to in the
intoxication of your false sense of happiness.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In this depressing state the Holy Spirit reminds you gently that you are
sad because you are not fulfilling your function as co-creators with
God, and are therefore depriving yourselves of joy. This is not God’s
Will, but YOURS. If your will is out of accord with God’s, you are
willing without meaning. Yet because God’s Will is unchangeable, no REAL
conflict of will is possible.
</div>

You see, the expression of willfulness by that which doesn’t exist does
not create conflict between that expression of will and God’s Will. The
expression of willfulness by that which doesn’t exist is not an
expression of will at all. Nothing’s happened. So nothing has happened
that’s at odds with God. You just think you’re having this life where
you’re determining your lives by the conscious use of your will. But
isn’t it interesting that as you realize that you haven’t been
accomplishing anything, you haven’t been doing anything Real, there’s
still this whole world and there’s still all of you. Creation is
untouched by it. But you’re not seeing it as it is. That’s all. You’re
just not seeing it as it is.

Continuing&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is the Holy Spirit’s perfectly consistent teaching.
</div>

Teaching? Teaching *you*, teaching you that you’re not accomplishing what
you thought you were, because you’re not what you thought you were. But
you are Something. And that Something is Real. And that Something is the
Christ. And that Something is *Mind* which already is a Singularity that
doesn’t have to become more pure. And it teaches you this so that you
might begin to embrace this *picture* of yourself, because initially it’s
a picture that has to be given to you so that you might embrace this
picture, and your old pictures which didn’t represent the Truth might
begin to crumble and lose your attention.

Continuing&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Creation, NOT separation, is your will BECAUSE it is God’s, and nothing
that opposes this means anything at all. Being a perfect accomplishment,
the Sonship can only accomplish perfectly, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip;there’s the Singularity again. That which begets, begets that
which embodies it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Being a perfect accomplishment, the Sonship can only accomplish
perfectly, extending the joy in which it was created, and identifying
itself with both its Creator and its creations, KNOWING they are One.
</div>

This section is entitled, “From Vigilance to Peace.” The section before
was about vigilance. We’re talking about a movement. We’re describing
the fact that vigilance is necessary because you are using your mind in
extremely sloppy ways. Ways that allow conflict to be embraced side by
side without recognizing that such a thing is absolutely impossible. And
you are letting them exist side by side without challenging them and
without making a choice, so that you are not believing Truth and error
simultaneously.

This section we’ve been reading about is describing the fact that
although vigilance is the starting point, it’s not the ending point.
Life is not about vigilance. And there will be a movement from vigilance
to Peace. But you won’t be able to move to the Peace until you begin to
recognize that you’re at the Point of Perfection and that you must
understand yourself therefrom. That Mind *is* and *can only be* a
Singularity—meaning without any impurities no matter how infinitesimal
in it, no impurities of ignorant thinking.

No impurities of the sort that says, “I’m sorry if I hurt your feelings.
I didn’t intend to.” You see? Did you intend *not* to? Because if you
intended not to hurt someone’s feelings, the occasion for the hurt
feelings wouldn’t have occurred, because there was a Singularity of
Intent to be the Expression of Love, and a Singularity of Intent to not,
*not* be the Presence of Love.

Now, we’re reading about this movement that involves the recognition for
the need for vigilance, and then we’re moving on because you can read
faster than you learn, and we’re reading about graduating from vigilance
to Peace.

Well, I’m never wasting my breath, but don’t make me waste my breath by
just learning the ideas that we’re reading about. What we’re reading
about is embodying the Truth in involvement, in the way you behave with
each other, and the fact that the premise from which you *behave* toward
each other will have absolute results that are completely *consistent*
with the Truth of Being.

If you are being out from the Singularity that Mind is, everything you
do will express Unity and will unify. If you choose to come from a
conflicted place, if you come from a frame of mind in which opposites
can be held, believed and practiced simultaneously, then everything that
follows will elicit, embody, and bring forth the effects of division.
The Laws of Singularity work both ways. The only difference is that when
you are willing to be conflicted within yourself and be from that
divided context, what results isn’t real, because your perceptions don’t
make your perceptions real. Your perceptions can never be actualized.
And so it’s *all* a waste of time even though you all do it so well. The
point is that you’re doing it with the only Mind there is, and all of
What Is Real about that Mind is totally present right now as your Mind,
because it hasn’t stopped being a Singularity.

To sum up what I’m meaning to convey, Awakening isn’t a process of
getting better. It isn’t a process of improvement. It is a process of
learning to discern, for lack of better words, whether you’re intending
*not* to be loving, whether you’re intending not to be Singular, whether
you just love the thrill of the conflict. It’s a choice. It’s a simple
choice. None of this is complicated. This book is a long book. It’s
filled with words. But it doesn’t mean that what it’s talking about is
complicated. It simply goes through and uncovers just about every crazy
thing you do so that you might look at it objectively and say, “Wow,
that doesn’t make sense, does it?”

I wish to see the Evidence of Love. I wish to be the Evidence of Love. I
intend not to see the opposite of Love. I intend not to expect to see
the opposite of Love. I intend not to be the absence of Love.

Does any of you think I don’t love you? Does anyone think Paul doesn’t
love you? Nobody will think you don’t love them if you’re willing to let
every Conscious Experience you have be the Conscious Awareness of God
and the Conscious Awareness of God’s Point of View, God’s Perspective,
God’s Understanding about What Everything Is.

I look forward to being with you next week. I love you all.

[^1]: T7.6 From Vigilance to Peace

