---
title: May 30, 2004
ref: "T7.7 The Total Commitment"
alink: "/acim/text/07/chap0707/"
---

Good afternoon. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

Two prayers: I wish to see only the Evidence of Love. And: I wish to
only be the Evidence of Love.

It&rsquo;s not just a wonderful intent. It is a substantial desire. I
mean by that a desire that has substance to it, because it lifts you out
of your habitual processes, the habits that keep you blinded to the
Evidence of Love and keep you distracted from being the Evidence of Love
which it&rsquo;s your Nature and Function to be.

How many of you succeeded this past week in the practice of wishing not
to be the evidence of the absence of Love? The intent not to hurt
another&rsquo;s feelings or not to be the presence of jealousy or hate
or distress, you know, broadcast for everyone to hear. Paul will be glad
to tell you that he was lousy at it this last week. What is it? What is
it that can distract you so easily from a wholesome intent to see the
Evidence of Love and to be the Evidence of Love? It&rsquo;s really easy.
The answer is habit.

What is a habit? It&rsquo;s a response that is second nature to you.
That&rsquo;s why it&rsquo;s a habit. It&rsquo;s second nature. Of
course, first nature is to be the Presence of Love. A habit is second
nature. And so you have the intent to be the Evidence of Love, and
you&rsquo;re being loving and someone responds to you in a surprisingly
awful way. That in itself can&rsquo;t be bothersome. But, the ego says,
&ldquo;Wow! They didn&rsquo;t grasp where I was coming from. Uh oh.
We&rsquo;re in a state of lack of communication. They&rsquo;re not
seeing me at all. Obviously they&rsquo;re not even paying attention,
even though they&rsquo;re right here in front of me, and they heard what
I said, and they should have felt what I was feeling. So, not only is
there no communication, this person is actively ignoring me and that
makes me feel left out. That makes me feel excluded from them, even
though our being together implies that we are together, even though the
fact that we&rsquo;re talking implies that there is communication. But
that person has an agenda of their own, and their agenda is not to hear
me. Their agenda is for me to hear them. There&rsquo;s no respect for
me. You know what? It&rsquo;s not worth it to be the Presence of Love.
It&rsquo;s worth it to me to feel how badly I feel, and to mull it over
and stew about it&mdash;the injustice of it.&rdquo;

Paul did this practically every day even though each morning he got up
and tried to start out fresh. And so to be the Evidence of Love went way
on the back burner. Self-protection, self-assertion, and the attempt to
be recognized because he deserves to be recognized came up on the front
burner. This is the way it happens with everyone. No one becomes
defensive unless they feel hurt. If they feel hurt, they feel something
has been taken away from them. And they believe their belief! You
believe your beliefs. And then you begin to act from
there&mdash;defended, separate. And you move into varying degrees of
attack, varying degrees of expressing distress toward the source of the
distress, and the attempt to change that one. And the experience is a
miserable experience.

Now mind you, last week we talked about the fact that you think nothing
of believing that you have a capacity to embrace and embody opposing
thoughts at the same time, opposing intents at the same time. And you
don&rsquo;t even question it. It&rsquo;s impossible, but you don&rsquo;t
question it.

Paul felt hurt. [in a funny, whiny voice] You all feel hurt. And you
think the hurt is genuine, and you respond on the basis of that
ignorance. You forget that you have a choice. You forget that all you
have to do is sit down and meditate so that you can discover that your
Peace is available to you regardless of what you&rsquo;ve been thinking,
and regardless of what anyone else has done. The state of misery is not
a fact. It&rsquo;s like your lap. It&rsquo;s an arrangement of your body
that disappears when you stand up. Your lap is not a fact like your arm
is. Your hurt is the result of an arrangement of conflicting ideas, of
conflicting beliefs, that aren&rsquo;t facts. The moment you sit down
and do a meditation and you get into your Peace, you find that the
misery is gone. Why? Because you abandoned the arrangement of beliefs
and concepts that you were holding on to that said, &ldquo;That person
can do something that can deprive me of my Peace. And they did it and I
don&rsquo;t have my Peace! And it&rsquo;s their fault! And I&rsquo;m
stuck until I win this battle with them.&rdquo; You see, it
&lsquo;tain&rsquo;t so. It&rsquo;s just an arrangement of ideas and
concepts that have no actual &hellip; well, it is a configuration that
isn&rsquo;t actual&mdash;purely imaginary.

The result of believing that someone else can and has taken something of
yours away from you is pure insanity. It can&rsquo;t be done. And you
need to be vigilant about the way you&rsquo;re using your mind, so that
you don&rsquo;t accept an idea that has no basis in fact and treat it as
though it does, and lose sight of the fact that no matter what
they&rsquo;ve done or said, you&rsquo;re still as Whole as God made you.
You are still Mind, Singular Mind that has not been divided up, and
therefore is totally intact. And because it&rsquo;s intact, not one part
of it has disappeared, or been taken away. So this other one
hasn&rsquo;t taken anything away from you at all.

You&rsquo;ve abandoned the Conscious Experience of your Wholeness in
favor of the pleasure of a state of reaction, while at the same time
claiming that your reaction is justified, your hateful reaction is
justified because you&rsquo;re such a loving person and they don&rsquo;t
see it. Do you see what I&rsquo;m saying? Do you see the inconsistency?
But you believe it! You all believe it. Why? Because the arrangement of
beliefs, the arrangement of concepts that you&rsquo;re employing have
become a habit. And you slip back into the habit because more
persistence is needed in abandoning it for the Truth.

Now I said, &ldquo;Ye shall know the Truth, and the Truth shall make you
free.&rdquo; If you&rsquo;re not careful, you might think that I&rsquo;m
saying, &ldquo;You, whoever you think you are at the moment, whatever
ego you are at the moment, if you will know the Truth, the Truth will
make you free of all these other egos!&rdquo; Ha ha! [laughing
delightedly] No. The Truth is not an idea to be applied to the human
condition. The Truth is not a tool to be applied to circumstances. Truth
is when the light bulb goes on. Truth, the realization of Truth is when
you say, &ldquo;Oh, I see what he means!&rdquo; Now you&rsquo;re knowing
the Truth. And at that very moment, you have ceased to be subject to the
lie about which the Truth isn&rsquo;t Truth. There&rsquo;s nothing left
to apply the Truth to.

So don&rsquo;t think as we go through the Course that you&rsquo;re
learning about Truth so that you may bring it to bear upon the human
condition. You&rsquo;re reading the Course because it is put together in
such a way by the Holy Spirit that it will trigger release from the
habits, the particular configurations of beliefs that hold you bondage,
by triggering an &ldquo;Aha!&rdquo; that undoes the configuration, that
in effect causes you to stand up and see, &ldquo;Oh! My goodness! My lap
isn&rsquo;t permanent! In fact, it&rsquo;s only something that can be
called a lap if I sit down. It isn&rsquo;t a thing at all.&rdquo; You
see?

When you say, &ldquo;I wish to be the Evidence of Love,&rdquo; you are
saying, &ldquo;I wish to have the Experience of Love that the Father is
blessing me with constantly, so that I might extend it to my Brother or
Sister, no matter how beautifully or awkwardly they are behaving.&rdquo;
If you&rsquo;re saying, &ldquo;I wish to be the Evidence of Love,&rdquo;
you&rsquo;re saying, &ldquo;I wish to be a healer. I wish to be the
Presence of that which doesn&rsquo;t believe everything that my
conditioned thinking tells me is going on. I wish instead to see beyond
it with the Father&rsquo;s Eyes. I wish to see What Is Really
There.&rdquo; That is an Act of Love&mdash;that wish, that desire.

A healer always looks beyond appearances, or beneath appearances, or
behind appearances, to that which has to be really there in order for
there to appear to be a costume covering it up. To be a healer, you
don&rsquo;t give recognition or acceptance to the costume at all.

Well, that doesn&rsquo;t seem to be justifiable once you&rsquo;ve been
hurt, once they&rsquo;ve hurt you. But the fact is it&rsquo;s hard to do
when you have determined that they have succeeded in taking something
away from you that they couldn&rsquo;t possibly have taken away, because
there&rsquo;s nothing that can cause you at any moment to be less than
Whole. Their behavior may need improvement. But no matter what their
behavior is, they can&rsquo;t take anything away from you.

The reason you want to be a healer is because it causes you to begin to
fulfill your Function. It causes you to move into a frame of mind that
honors What Is True about you. The Love of the Father which gets
extended to a Brother because you have desired to Love your Brother,
blesses you, because it keeps you from being successfully distracted
into confused thinking and actions based on confusion that will do
nothing but keep you in the dark.

Whether healing occurs in every instant of your day or not as a result
of this, don&rsquo;t abandon your intent to see the Truth. Don&rsquo;t
abandon the intent to be the Evidence of Love in your world that blesses
your world, because correction or healing is needed. If you want to feel
good, then you must insist upon and persist in extending Love, the
intent to extend Love, the intent to see behind the masks. And until
anyone is awake, they&rsquo;re presenting a mask at all times.

Isn&rsquo;t that wonderful? It gives you constant opportunity to fulfill
your Function and thereby remember not who you are, but WHAT You Are.
And in remembering What You Are, you become disillusioned, free of
illusions. You come back into your right Mind and you lessen the density
of the camaraderie of the dreamers by withdrawing from the group.

Vigilance and diligence are the key words here. You must be vigilant not
to be the evidence of the absence of Love. And you must be diligent in
your intent to be the Evidence of Love. You must be persistent in
wishing to see only the Evidence of Love, because the Evidence of Love
is behind every mask and underneath every costume, even the ones
you&rsquo;re wearing. You see, I&rsquo;m not talking to any of your
costumes or any of your masks. I&rsquo;m talking to You, the Real One
that&rsquo;s there. And this is healing. And this is transformational.
Whether you continue to come here and sit with blank stares, or twinkles
of &ldquo;Aha&rsquo;s,&rdquo; I persist. And you, all of you, along with
Paul have the opportunity to embrace this natural activity so that the
joy of experiencing the Father&rsquo;s Love loving you as it gets
extended to your Brother, secures in you greater commitment to wishing
to see only the Evidence of Love and wishing to be only the Evidence of
Love.

Let&rsquo;s go to the book.

Remember I didn&rsquo;t say any of this would be easy. The Truth is
simple, but the breaking of well-established habits isn&rsquo;t easy.
This is why vigilance is necessary. This is why being conscious and not
just floating through your day is so essential. To be drowsy and lazy in
your mind is not a characteristic of Mind. The Characteristic of Mind is
attentiveness, being fully attentive to All of Creation, to all that is
included in Mind, which is All of Creation Itself. So, as I&rsquo;ve
said before, just because you might not find it easy is no justification
for abandoning the nurturing of your Divine Birthright, the nurturing of
capacities that are fully present in you at this very moment, that are
not stunted, that are not weak, that are not shriveled up. They are
fully present, fully functional, whenever you choose to employ them. And
another way of saying that is whenever you choose to value the
Experience of Singularity and not try to employ conflict as the means
for coping with life. Conflicted ideas in your mind held simultaneously
and acted upon as though they could be acted upon.

Okay. Let&rsquo;s start in the book. And the heading here in the Course
as it was finished by Bill Thetford is:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*The Total Commitment*[^1]
</div>

Total commitment, that&rsquo;s moving into the Singularity. Without any
conflict, without anything extraneous. The Wholeness of being Conscious.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Whenever you deny a blessing to a brother YOU will feel deprived.
</div>

I think by now everyone of you should be pretty clear on why. Your
Function is to be the Presence of Love. Your Function is to be the place
where the Extension of Love occurs and if you withhold it, you are
denying your Function. You are blocking your Function and that will
never be comfortable.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Whenever you deny a blessing to a brother YOU will feel deprived. This
is because denial is as total as love.
</div>

Understand that because Mind is a Singularity, whether you try to be it
in a conflicted, nonsingular way, because it is a Singularity,
everything it does is wholly committed to what it&rsquo;s doing. And so,
if you are choosing to be conflicted within yourself and determine
everything about your world on the basis of that conflict, you will do
that with total commitment because Mind cannot be polarized. It
can&rsquo;t be divided into positive and negative. So you will be
positively good, or you will be positively bad. You see? Because there
is no way for there to be a mixture of the two. So denial is as total as
Love. We could say hate is as total as Love. Anger is as total as Love.
Dishonesty is as total as Love. Because whatever you are intent upon,
all of the power of Singularity will be embodied in it.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is as impossible to deny part of the Sonship as it is to love it in
part. Nor is it possible to love it totally AT TIMES.
</div>

Nor is it possible to love it totally at times.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You cannot be TOTALLY committed SOMETIMES. Remember a very early
lesson;&mdash;&ldquo;Never underestimate the power of denial.&rdquo; It
has no power in itself, but you can give it the power of YOUR mind,
whose power is without limit of any kind.
</div>

Now, you must remember here that this is referring to the Christ That
You Are, that you&rsquo;ve never stopped being, even though you deny it.
Your mind is, like we said last week, the only Mind there is. Mind is a
Singularity. There is only One; that Mind is God; that Mind is gifted by
God to every single part of His Creations; that Mind is the One
Conscious Experience of Being Conscious that you are experiencing.
It&rsquo;s the Christ-Mind because it&rsquo;s the Mind of God.

So denial &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; has no power in itself, but you can give it the power of YOUR
mind&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Christ That You Are &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you can give it the power of YOUR mind&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and I might add, foolishly, of course &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; whose power is without limit of any kind. If you use it to deny
reality, reality IS gone for you. REALITY CANNOT BE PARTLY APPRECIATED.
</div>

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
REALITY CANNOT BE PARTLY APPRECIATED. That is why denying any part of it
means you have lost awareness of ALL of it.
</div>

If you get up in the morning and you say, &ldquo;Boy, yesterday
so-and-so was a real bastard and really wrecked up my day,&rdquo; well,
as you get up and move into your day with that thought and that context,
it won&rsquo;t be just so-and-so who is colored by your distress.
It&rsquo;s going to be that the milk is not cold enough in your bowl of
Cheerios. It&rsquo;s gonna be all the lousy drivers on the freeway.
It&rsquo;s gonna be the circumstances that got you to work seconds
before you would be late. It is going to color everything, because you
really can&rsquo;t be a divided Experience of Consciousness. Mind you,
this isn&rsquo;t because there&rsquo;s anything going on in Creation, or
the world, that is true justification for your misery. But when you
employ misery relative to one part of Creation, it will spread to every
part of your Conscious Experience. Why? Because Mind is a Singularity.

You used to think of your Real Mind and the ego as though they were two
different minds. Stop. Let go of that concept. The only difference
between your right Mind and the ego is the difference in the use
you&rsquo;re putting your one and only Mind to use. You&rsquo;re either
putting it to good use, or bad use, but there&rsquo;s only one Mind. I
point this out to you so that you might understand that the ego is not a
mind claiming to be your mind that you must escape from, and which you
might not have a very good chance of escaping from because &ldquo;Oh,
it&rsquo;s a defense mechanism, and it is very excellent at what it
does. And so it is going to be a struggle.&rdquo; No. It&rsquo;s a
matter of choice between using the one Singular Mind that there is well,
instead of poorly. It means taking responsibility for how you&rsquo;re
using your Mind and being conscious enough not to slip into the sloppy
habit of trying to be loving and angry at the same time.

&ldquo;I&rsquo;m a loving person who has a right to be angry. I&rsquo;m
a loving person who has a right to be pissed off at you. And boy am I
pissed off at you! Now Susie Q over here, I love her. [kissing sound]
Mmm. She&rsquo;s a sweetheart. But you, you&rsquo;re a bastard! I hate
you!&rdquo; And you have that all in one sentence. And you think
you&rsquo;re feeling those things simultaneously, and it&rsquo;s
impossible. And you don&rsquo;t recognize it, and you don&rsquo;t
challenge it. And as a result, you block the Extension of Love that it
is the Function of your Being to be, and you feel miserable. Loving
little Susie Q doesn&rsquo;t really make ya feel good; it&rsquo;s just a
nice contrast to how much you hate so-and-so. And it doesn&rsquo;t move
you out of misery.

[Said to Susan, Paul&rsquo;s wife] Susan, I&rsquo;m making no reference
to you [slight audience amusement] when I say &ldquo;Susie Q.&rdquo;

Continuing or repeating &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
REALITY CANNOT BE PARTLY APPRECIATED. That is why denying any part of it
means you have lost awareness of ALL of it.
</div>

You see, Paul isn&rsquo;t so different from all of you, and he thinks
that he can be conscious of Reality partly, even if he&rsquo;s
distressed. But the fact is that whatever consciousness there is of
Reality that he thinks he has, is still under the shadow and gloom of
the misery he&rsquo;s experiencing because he thinks he&rsquo;s been
hurt. He thinks something has been successfully taken away from him that
couldn&rsquo;t possibly have been taken away from him. And so, if you
deny any part of it, you have lost awareness of all of it in its True
Light.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
That is the negative side of the law, as it operates in this world. Yet
denial is a defense, and so it is as capable of being used positively as
it is of being used destructively.
</div>

In other words, denial can be used on behalf of unifying, just as it can
be used on behalf of dividing, of disintegrating. Don&rsquo;t look for
that in the book. I&rsquo;m saying that.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Used negatively it WILL be destructive because it will be used for
attack&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; another word for &ldquo;attack&rdquo; is &ldquo;defense.&rdquo;
When you are be being defensive, you are engaging in attack against that
which you are defending yourself.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Used negatively it WILL be destructive because it will be used for
attack, but in the service of the Holy Spirit, the law requires you to
recognize only PART of reality to appreciate ALL of it.
</div>

Well, let&rsquo;s bring that down to earth here. You come up to a
friend, a neighbor, an associate, a boss, whoever, and as I said, unless
they&rsquo;re awake, they&rsquo;re in a costume and presenting a mask.
Denial is, positively speaking, your instant recognition that the mask
and the costume aren&rsquo;t the individual. And you choose not to honor
the mask or the costume, but to acknowledge the individual. You see, now
you have denied the presentation, the costume, whatever means that one
is using to defend himself or herself, because he or she, like you,
knows that in the separated and alone state of mind that he or she is
in, everything calls for defense. Because vulnerability is the bottom
line of that experience. That person doesn&rsquo;t necessarily know
that, but that one experiences it as though it&rsquo;s real. And
that&rsquo;s why they employ a mask, and that&rsquo;s why they employ a
costume, just as with you.

True denial is your unwillingness to respond to the costume or the mask,
and to insist upon recognizing that there is Something Divinely Real
behind and underneath the mask and costume, and that&rsquo;s the only
thing you&rsquo;re willing to communicate with, to be present with, to
witness for. That is the positive use of denial.

So, again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Used negatively it WILL be destructive &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; or divisive &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; because it will be used for attack, but in the service of the
Holy Spirit, the law requires you to recognize only PART of reality
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the part behind the mask of that individual, or another
individual. Not all of the Brotherhood. And &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the law requires you to recognize only PART of reality to
appreciate ALL of it. Mind &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your Mind. The Mind of the Christ that you Are &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is too powerful to be subject to exclusion.
</div>

And likewise Mind, the Mind that your Brother is, is too powerful to be
subject to exclusion.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You will NEVER be able to exclude yourself from what you project.

When a brother acts insanely&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and your Brothers will, and so will you until you&rsquo;re
awake, but less and less.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When a brother acts insanely, he is offering you an opportunity to bless
him.
</div>

Well, this week Paul wasn&rsquo;t interested in blessing anyone. After
all, he believed he had actually been hurt, actually been deprived of
something. Some part of him had been taken away by being ignored. Such
insanity.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When a brother acts insanely, he is offering you an opportunity to bless
him. His need is YOURS. You NEED the blessing you can offer him.
</div>

That doesn&rsquo;t mean you have the same problem he has. It means that
since your Function is to be the Extension of Love that the Father Is
Being through you, because that is your Function, you need to be
engaging it. And he needs, your Brother needs the blessing. You need the
blessing of fulfilling your Function and knowing that you are. Not
knowing in your head, but experiencing the fact that you are and feeling
the Integrity of You.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You NEED the blessing you can offer him. There is no way for you to have
it EXCEPT by giving it.
</div>

Write this down and put it on your refrigerator.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is no way for you to have it &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the blessing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; EXCEPT by giving it. This is the law of God, and it has NO
exceptions.
</div>

In other words, this is the Way Being Works. That&rsquo;s what is so
simple about all of this.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What you deny you LACK, not because it IS lacking, but because you have
denied it in another, and are therefore not aware of it in YOU.
</div>

You&rsquo;ve denied it in another. You&rsquo;ve denied it in another by
being unwilling to extend the Love that it&rsquo;s your Function to be
extending. So you have denied it in another, but by virtue of not
extending it, you&rsquo;ve denied it to yourself. So, you see, this has
nothing to do with whether or not another is worthy of your Love. It has
nothing to do with what he seems to have done to you, or not to have
done to you. It has nothing to do with whether he knows more or less
than you, or you are in a worse position than him. It has nothing to do
with all of these configurations of conflicting ideas that you&rsquo;ve
put together and are believing. It has to do with the fact that
it&rsquo;s your Function to extend Love. And you won&rsquo;t experience
being Loved until you extend it.

And that one will not experience it until someone is willing to extend
it, and thereby not respond to the costume and the mask, and thereby
provide an environment in which that one can more easily say,
&ldquo;Well, maybe I don&rsquo;t need this costume and this mask. Maybe
I don&rsquo;t need this defense.&rdquo; He deserves the blessing because
of Who He Is, or She Is, underneath the mask and the costume. And you
deserve the blessing, because it&rsquo;s your Function to be in receipt
of it because you are extending it. This is what brings you back into
your right Mind, and this is what brings you back into the True
Experience of Reality.

Now, continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Every response you make is determined by what you THINK you are, and
what you WANT to be IS what you think you are.
</div>

It&rsquo;s simple. Whatever you&rsquo;re being right now, whatever way
you&rsquo;re being, however you are identifying yourself right now,
however you are conceiving of who and what you are right now, it is
exactly what you want.

And if you are a person who is always a victim, if you are a person who
can always find a parking space right in front of the place you&rsquo;re
going, if you are a person who has generally happy relationships, or if
you are a person who has generally frustrating relationships, it&rsquo;s
because this is what you want. Because you don&rsquo;t do what you
don&rsquo;t want. And if you&rsquo;re getting what you don&rsquo;t want,
you have to be willing to look at the configuration of beliefs that
you&rsquo;re valuing and holding onto.

&ldquo;Oh, you know, [sighing] I&rsquo;m in such a self-defeating
situation. I&rsquo;m on welfare, but welfare is set up so that
it&rsquo;s almost impossible to get off of welfare, because once you
start making money they decrease your welfare, and that isn&rsquo;t
enough to keep you going. And to hell with it, I&rsquo;m just gonna stay
on welfare.&rdquo; Now there&rsquo;s a string of ideas, held in a
context that you find valuable.

You would say, &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t want this misery,&rdquo; but you
won&rsquo;t let go of the ideas that continue to reinforce it. You are
experiencing exactly what you want, and you are what you are currently
defining yourself as. And until you want something different, you will
have this, because you want it. Admittedly, you want it for crazy
reasons, for inconsistent, illogical and conflicted reasons. But
nevertheless, you have justifications right down to the dots on the
&ldquo;i&rsquo;s&rdquo; and the crosses on the &ldquo;t&rsquo;s.&rdquo;

Oh, I know this is insulting to your egos, but it is empowering to the
Christ That You Are, because it tells you that you hold the key. In a
way you hold the power&mdash;the power of decision, the power of
vigilance, to choose once again in a new way and to use denial
constructively by saying, &lsquo;This is inconsistent. This does not
make sense. And I refuse to validate it because the Truth is I am the
beloved Son, or Daughter, of God from whom He has withheld nothing.
Therefore, nothing has been taken away from me. And I am not at a
disadvantage, even though at the moment I cannot see where the advantage
is. But I&rsquo;m not going to continue to validate the justifications I
have been using for staying at a disadvantage.&rdquo;

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Every response you make is determined by what you THINK you are, and
what you WANT to be IS what you think you are.
</div>

At least for the time being. You can want to be something else.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Therefore, what you want to be determines every response you make.
</div>

Paul wanted to be miserable last week, and it governed every response he
made. Just ask Susan. And he&rsquo;s no different from you.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You do not need God&rsquo;s blessing&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you do not need God&rsquo;s blessing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; since that you have forever, but you DO need YOURS.
</div>

Again, as I said last week, &ldquo;Let the reign of Divine Truth, Life
and Love be established in me.&rdquo; That&rsquo;s your prayer.
That&rsquo;s your prayer made to yourself. You are saying, &ldquo;I want
to let the Truth to be established in me. I am willing to let it be
established in me because it already is established in me.&rdquo;
That&rsquo;s you blessing yourself.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You do not need God&rsquo;s blessing, since that you have forever, but
you DO need YOURS. The picture you see of yourselves is deprived,
unloving and very vulnerable.
</div>

&ldquo;No,&rdquo; somebody says, &ldquo;oh no, it isn&rsquo;t.
It&rsquo;s not all that bad.&rdquo; Well, as someone said earlier today,
&ldquo;Well everybody&rsquo;s gonna die!&rdquo; Well, I&rsquo;m sorry,
but that&rsquo;s a deprived, unloving, and vulnerable idea that
isn&rsquo;t true and needs to be rejected outright, instead of rehearsed
and put into the air as though it&rsquo;s a fact. &ldquo;Well
everybody&rsquo;s gonna get sick once in a while. I mean, there are
germs all over the place. Yeah. We&rsquo;re just human.&rdquo; Well,
that&rsquo;s a deprived, unloving and vulnerable idea. And you subject
yourself to it. And you don&rsquo;t challenge it, at least not
consistently enough. The picture you see, therefore, of yourselves is
deprived, unloving and vulnerable, if you&rsquo;re not awake. That
isn&rsquo;t what it says here.

What it says is:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The picture you see of yourselves is deprived, unloving and very
vulnerable.
</div>

Period.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You CANNOT love this. Yet you can very easily escape from it, or better,
leave it behind. You are not THERE, and that is not YOU. Do not see this
picture in anyone, or you have accepted it AS you.
</div>

If you accept it in anyone else, you have accepted it as you. If you
haven&rsquo;t accepted it as you, or we&rsquo;ll say, as being true
about you, then in looking at another who is claiming it to be true
about them, you&rsquo;ll say, &ldquo;No way, José!&rdquo; Because
that&rsquo;s not part of your picture of yourself. It&rsquo;s not part
of your conception of yourself.

Listen to this.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
ALL illusions about the Sonship are dispelled together, as they were
MADE together.
</div>

Again, understand that when Paul chose to be miserable this last week,
his whole world looked miserable to him. In other words, All of Creation
was made to look miserable together at the same time, even though Paul
was choosing only one or two individuals to be distressed about. So the
illusion always affects the perception of everything simultaneously.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
ALL illusions about the Sonship are dispelled together, as they were
MADE together. Teach no-one that he is what YOU would NOT want to be.
</div>

Teach no one that he is what you would not want to be. Or what?
You&rsquo;re teaching that that is your perception of yourself as well.
If it wasn&rsquo;t your perception of yourself, you would contradict
that other one by saying, &ldquo;That&rsquo;s not the Truth about you.
Here&rsquo;s the Truth about you.&rdquo;

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your brother is the mirror in which you will see the image of yourself,
as long as perception lasts. And perception WILL last until the Sonship
knows itself as whole.
</div>

Okay, everybody, that means that vigilance, diligence, separating the
tares from the wheat, the masks and the costumes from the Individuality
wearing them, is going to be an ongoing, ultimately permanent activity.
Because, you know what? When as a result of your being the Presence of
Love, being the Evidence of Love, your Brothers and Sisters take off
their masks and costumes, you will still continue forever acknowledging
the Christ that is there. So seeing the Christ in your Brother, seeing
the Truth underneath the mask and costume, is not a temporary activity
to make a correction. It&rsquo;s the beginning of you each being in your
right Mind, fulfilling your Function, that will bring you back into your
Sanity where you will remain forever, doing the same thing and nothing
else. You see?

So, again, this isn&rsquo;t about learning ideas of Truth that you can
apply to the human condition until it&rsquo;s no longer needed. This is
about you beginning to be What You Really Are, and never abandoning It
again.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You made perception&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; [in an amused voice] the moment you said, &ldquo;But, Father,
I&rsquo;d rather see it my way,&rdquo; and you came up with a way to see
it that was not the Father&rsquo;s Perspective, you made (or created)
perception.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You made perception, and it must last as long as you WANT it.
</div>

And you will want it until it no longer serves your confused and silly
motives.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Illusions are investments. They will last as long as you value them.
Values are relative, but they are powerful because they are mental
judgments.
</div>

And I&rsquo;m going to add that not only are they mental judgments, but
they are judgments backed up with an emotion. &ldquo;He (or she) did me
wrong, put me at a disadvantage, actually took away something valuable
that was mine, and it hurt.&rdquo; And when you say, &ldquo;it
hurt,&rdquo; you are saying that you are experiencing an emotion. And
that emotion is the fire behind your revenge. And it is the energy
which, like a drug, distracts you significantly from remembering that
your Peace is available to you and is only a choice away from what you
are currently miserably experiencing.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The only way to dispel illusions is to withdraw ALL investment from
them, and they will have no life for you because you have put them OUT
OF YOUR MIND.
</div>

In other words, you have disregarded them.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
While you include them IN it, you are GIVING life to them. Except there
is nothing there to receive your gift.
</div>

You&rsquo;re giving life, you think you&rsquo;re giving life to
something, but it&rsquo;s only an imagination. There&rsquo;s nothing
actually there to receive the life that your attention is attempting to
give to it. So, in effect, you&rsquo;re like the emperor with new
clothes that has no clothes. You are giving life to something that
isn&rsquo;t there, and so you&rsquo;re doing nothing, thinking that
you&rsquo;re doing something and caught up in an illusion of simple
emptiness.

Before we end for the day, I just want to reiterate the difference
between emotions and feelings, as I use the words. I use the word
&ldquo;feeling&rdquo; relative to Soul&mdash;your Soul Capacity, your
Capacity as Soul to experience fully the Meaning of every Idea in the
Mind of God. It is your Capacity, Soul is your Capacity to feel the
Fullness of God in every Aspect of Creation. It is Soul which allows you
to feel the Presence of God right where your Brother is, instead of the
mask or costume he or she is wearing. Feeling is Soul Sensing the
Meaning of Creation. Emotions, on the other hand, are not properly
feelings. They are defensive reactions to a misperception of the Kingdom
of Heaven. They are defensive reactions to a misperception of a Christ
that is confronting you. Those are emotions. Real art never arises out
of emotions. They arise out of Soul Sensing.

It&rsquo;s important to understand the distinction here, because the
sloppy use of the word[s] &ldquo;feelings&rdquo; and
&ldquo;emotions&rdquo; will keep you from being able to make the
distinction between What Is Real and what is not real, what needs to be
denied and What Needs To Be Affirmed.

&ldquo;Oh, well. I feel hurt. I feel the pain of the behavior I was the
recipient of. And because I feel it, it&rsquo;s got to be real.&rdquo;
But you know what? Feeling unifies, and emotions divide. And so you take
a good look at what the end result is of feelings and emotions, and you
will be able to determine Which One Is Real and which one is not. And
when you can see that an emotional response is not real, and therefore
not valid, you will not confirm it and base your actions upon it,
because you will end up looking like, and being, a fool temporarily. And
it&rsquo;s not your Birthright to be experiencing yourself that way.

I love you. And I will continue to stand here with every single one of
you that&rsquo;s behind the costume and the mask, to magnify that Which
Is True And Real about you, so that you might feel comfortable in
de-masking and disrobing, so that the gloriousness of the Creation of
God that is what each of you is might bless everyone because it&rsquo;s
no longer hidden.

Okay. I look forward to being with you next two weeks from today.

[^1]: T7.7 The Total Commitment

