---
title: Jun 20, 2004
ref: "T7.7 The Total Commitment"
alink: "/acim/text/07/chap0707/"
---

Good afternoon. Paul is noticing that I am feeling a little more
enthusiastic and vital than he is in this heat. The best air
conditioning is connection with your Guide. [audience laughter]

Okay. To repeat, in the Sparkly book, it&rsquo;s page 162, last
paragraph. In the second edition, it&rsquo;s page 129, second full
paragraph, paragraph number 10. And in the first edition, it&rsquo;s the
second line from the bottom of the page on page 119. And without
preamble, we&rsquo;ll go right into the book.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You ARE the Will of God. Do not accept anything else AS your will, or
you are denying what you are.[^1]
</div>

Tell me something. During the last seven days, how many minutes did you
spend being aware that you are the Will of God? I&rsquo;m not going to
force you to convict yourselves by answering the question. But if
that&rsquo;s not what you were identifying yourself as, as you went
through your week, then during your week, you were denying What You Are.
You were in a state of Self-denial. A kinder way of putting it is that
you were in a state of unconsciousness of your Identity. And if you are
unconscious of Who or What You Are, it&rsquo;s impossible for you to
express it.

It&rsquo;s a simple thing we&rsquo;ve been talking about over the past
few weeks&mdash;Singularity. And I want it to register with you as
something simple. You hang on dearly to your concept of being a human
being, your father&rsquo;s and mother&rsquo;s son or daughter, your
children&rsquo;s parent, a human being, a physical organism who&rsquo;s
arrogant enough to think it&rsquo;s at the top of the food chain. You
see? And when that&rsquo;s the way you identify yourself, you leave out
the best part. You leave out the Excellence of you. You leave out the
Goodness, the God-ness of you.

And so, what it boils down to is something very simple. Let yourself
during this coming week be as conscious as you can of the fact that you
are more than your current definitions of yourself, that you are in
actuality the Direct Expression and Presence of God in the middle of the
Direct Expression of God. You call it the world and universe. It is the
Kingdom of Heaven. It is Reality, with a capital &ldquo;R&rdquo;, the
Ultimate. You think it&rsquo;s arrogant to say if there&rsquo;s anything
here at all where I see myself, it must be God presenting Himself. It
may seem arrogant to you to do that, but that is the simple Truth. And
as a result, as I have been saying, there is an Excellence present. You
are the Presence of Excellence. And there&rsquo;s much more for you to
give, to share, than you imagine or than you embrace in your current
human definition of yourself.

You&rsquo;ve got to dare to identify yourself correctly. Who to? To
yourself, first. Because until you&rsquo;re willing to embrace it, you
can&rsquo;t incorporate it. You can&rsquo;t let it in to register and
settle with you, and become the more of you that you&rsquo;re capable of
being, that you will then be able to extend and share; not as a sharing
of arrogance, but of simple and genuine value that&rsquo;s meaningful to
everyone in your experience.

As I&rsquo;ve said before, you&rsquo;re all closet Christs embarrassed
and ashamed to present Who You Really Are. And it&rsquo;s time to come
out of the closet. And the only way you&rsquo;ll come out of the closet
is to begin to remember in your mind Who You Are. And let it occupy more
of your attention. That&rsquo;s what this is all about. Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You ARE the Will of God. Do not accept anything else AS your will, or
you are denying what you are. Deny this and you WILL attack, believing
you have BEEN attacked. But see the Love of God in you, and you will see
It everywhere because It IS everywhere.
</div>

And this is me. It is the only thing really going on. Continuing
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
See His &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; God&rsquo;s.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; abundance in everyone, and you will know that you are in Him
WITH them.
</div>

In other words, the acknowledgement of What Is True about a Brother in
your Mind causes what you see in him to be confirmed in you and you are
blessed.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
They are part of you, as you are part of God. YOU are as lonely without
understanding this as God Himself is lonely when His Sons do not know
Him. The peace of God IS understanding this. There is only one way OUT
of the world&rsquo;s thinking, just as there was only one way INTO it.
Understand totally by understanding TOTALITY.
</div>

Totality. Infiniteness that is Wholeness. That is a Singularity, in
other words.

I have Paul on the edge of his seat. We&rsquo;re going somewhere he has
no sense of. How does what I&rsquo;ve just read relate to the specific
human experience of your having to relate to someone who is unconscious
of the Truth of themselves and who insists upon acting out defense when
there is really nothing going on calling for defense, so that their
behavior with you is obtuse, unpleasant, unkind without a cause. In
other words, when someone is so unpleasant to be with that being with
them and with their behavior constitutes such a distraction to you
because it is so unpleasant that it is not possible to continue to be in
their presence where you could be an active agent for change, where you
could be the Presence of Love that heals.

Even more than this, what if this unpleasant someone, this well-defended
someone who doesn&rsquo;t see that their behavior is an unpleasant
experience for others, what if they know that you have a commitment to
the prayer, &ldquo;I wish to see only the Evidence of Love. And I wish
to be only the Evidence of Love.&rdquo; What if this person knows that
you have commitment to this, and although they don&rsquo;t see in what
way their behavior is unpleasant, they know that you are experiencing it
as unpleasant and they don&rsquo;t stop because they know you have a
commitment to be defenseless? Do you stand there in the hurricane of
their behavior and not object to it, but instead express the Truth about
them? Or do you say to them, &ldquo;Until you put the brakes on with
this behavior, until you can settle down and stop being unpleasant, you
will have to leave. Until you exert a little self-discipline and
self-control so that I am not having to dodge the bullets that you are
sending my way, we are not in a position to communicate and you
can&rsquo;t remain.&rdquo;

Does your opting for the opportunity to be the Presence of Singularity
in the face of attack something you are supposed to engage in without
objection to the setting, the circumstance, in which it&rsquo;s
occurring? Well, I will tell you something. There is a way things work.
And the way things work is full of Integrity. And it is full of
Kindness.

And I will give you an example. If any one of you is angry, defensive,
pissed off, and you want to talk to your Guide, and maybe you&rsquo;re
pissed off at your Guide because your Guide has been pushing your
buttons encouraging you to expand beyond your comfort zone, and you
approach your Guide full of emotion, vigor, criticism, judgment, you
will not be able to hear your Guide. Why? Not because your Guide
won&rsquo;t speak to you, but because the willfulness that you are
bringing into play in the process of approaching your Guide, in so many
words, makes so much static in your mind that you will not hear the
answer. And you will not hear the answer until you bring into play a
certain amount of self-discipline and you settle yourself down. And you
arrive at a point where, still not having the answer to the thing that
was frustrating you, you&rsquo;re willing to release the emotion because
you know it&rsquo;s getting in the way. And you choose to set it aside,
even though it is of extreme importance to you to be able to express it,
so that you can go into the Silence where you can hear the answer.

Now, let&rsquo;s say that you are one of those who has said, &ldquo;I
wish to see only the Evidence of Love. And I wish to be only the
Evidence of Love.&rdquo; And you have made commitment to that and
someone else knows it, just like Paul knows that I will never stop being
here for him and I will never become upset by his behavior and I will
always respond, and yet this one insists upon acting out their sense of
separateness, vulnerability, and a need for defense that they feel, and
they insist upon doing it most obtusely. You might feel that you must
answer, that you must be the Presence of Love in that environment
without objection. And you would be wrong. And this is important for you
to know. You must &hellip; it&rsquo;s absolutely necessary for you to
say &ldquo;No&rdquo; to that kind of environmental circumstance, and you
must tell them that they must leave if they&rsquo;re not going to stop,
and they cannot come back until they&rsquo;ve gotten hold of themselves
and are willing to go into their Peace and choose for it, so that
healing of the disturbance can be addressed, rather than protection from
the disturbance needing to be employed.

The behavior is a call for correction, right? You&rsquo;ve been hearing
this ever since we started reading the Course. The behavior, the
loveless behavior, is a call for Love. It is a call for correction. And
the first part &hellip; the first part of the correction involves
modifying the way the call is being made so that the call for correction
has a little more Love in it, a little less lovelessness in it. Now
then, you&rsquo;re in a position of having to wait until that one has
come to the point of saying, &ldquo;Okay, it&rsquo;s less important to
me to be able to express my upsetness, it&rsquo;s less important to me,
that is less important to me than being in the place where a
relationship can occur that allows for healing to happen.&rdquo; And
that may be months. It may be years.

Well now, that seems to take you out of the loop as far as your function
is concerned because your function is to be the Presence of Love, to be
that Singularity that heals. And now the setup is by virtue of your
objecting to the uninhibited expression of anger or defense,
you&rsquo;re not in a position of relating to them in a healing way.
Well, you&rsquo;re not out of the loop because you&rsquo;ve still got
your own mind in which to be clear and in which to be the Presence of
Clarity that gets extended.

In metaphysics, there is something that is called absent treatment. It
is where healing work is done and you&rsquo;re not in the presence of
the one who has asked for healing. And so you have the opportunity in
your mind whenever this individual comes to your attention to ask God,
to turn toward the Holy Spirit, to go within to that Place of Excellence
in you, to ask, &ldquo;What is the Truth about this one?&rdquo; Not
&ldquo;What is the truth about his or her bad behavior?&rdquo; but,
&ldquo;What is the God&rsquo;s honest Truth about him or her?&rdquo;
Because you want your mind filled with the consciousness of the Truth
about them so that you are not conflicted, and so that every time you
think about them, you are sending out messengers that will bring back
confirmation of the Truth of them to you.

It is important to understand this, else you end up being the victim or
victims of abuse. And you end up being the victims of abuse because you
have an unintelligent concept of what it means to be the Presence of
Love. &ldquo;You&rsquo;re supposed to stand there and turn the other
cheek when one cheek has been slapped.&rdquo; No. When lovelessness is
expressed, you don&rsquo;t give lovelessness another opportunity to be
expressed. You don&rsquo;t come back from the ego place that the slap
came from. You come from the other vantage point. You come from the
other Voice, the Voice for Truth, and you say, &ldquo;No. This behavior
is unacceptable. The truth that you need to hear right now is that you
cannot continue this behavior in my Presence. And until this behavior
stops, we have no basis for resolving whatever the distress is
that&rsquo;s causing you to behave this way.&rdquo; That is turning the
other cheek. It&rsquo;s coming back from the other Voice, coming back
from the Place of Excellence in you that honors them enough to say,
&ldquo;I will not give you permission when you&rsquo;re with me to
behave in a way that doesn&rsquo;t reflect the Truth about you. And at
the same time I respect and honor What&rsquo;s True About Me enough not
to join with you in your attitude and retaliate.&rdquo;

Let&rsquo;s continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Perceive ANY part of the ego&rsquo;s thought system as wholly insane,
wholly delusional and wholly undesirable, and you have correctly
evaluated ALL of it. This correction enables you to perceive ANY part of
creation as wholly real, &hellip;
</div>

Any part of it, even if it&rsquo;s just the rose, even if it&rsquo;s
just your fingernail.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This correction enables you to perceive ANY part of creation as wholly
real, wholly perfect, and WHOLLY DESIRABLE. Wanting this ONLY, you will
HAVE this only, and giving this only, you will BE only this.
</div>

In other words, your mind will be in a condition of Singularity which is
its normal state; it&rsquo;s only state.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The gifts you offer to the ego are ALWAYS experienced as sacrifices, but
the gifts you offer to the Kingdom are gifts to YOU. They will always be
treasured by God because they belong to His beloved Sons, who belong to
Him.
</div>

Why? Because existence, the Conscious Experience of Being, Mind, is
Singular.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
All power and glory are yours BECAUSE the Kingdom is His.
</div>

Mmm. So the question comes, &ldquo;Well, why can&rsquo;t I demonstrate
this? Why with this particular individual, or that particular
individual, can&rsquo;t I do something to aggressively change the
situation; aggressively, lovingly, transformingly heal the
situation?&rdquo; And the simple reason is that you cannot make anyone
&hellip; you cannot make anyone use their will in a way that is contrary
to their current choice. And so, until their current choice changes, you
must say, &ldquo;No. You cannot behave with me that way. You will have
to go find others who will accept it.&rdquo;

Well, but it&rsquo;s your son, or your daughter, or your parent, or your
best friend. How can you just break it off? They&rsquo;re family, or
they&rsquo;re loved ones. Well, I&rsquo;m going to tell you something.
You&rsquo;ve got to pay attention to your common sense. And if being
with them causes only discomfort, and nothing, no matter how loving you
are, they will not change their behavior, you must ask yourself whether
it is intelligent for you to remain in a situation where conflict is
being employed consciously and purposely and be without your peace. And
you must finally come to the point where you answer, &ldquo;No, I refuse
to be in the thick of battle where it is so noisy that I cannot
experience my peace.&rdquo; And you must withdraw as I did to a
mountaintop. You must withdraw from where you are being thronged by the
crowds, by the dynamics, so that you may choose for your Peace and find
it.

Now, I&rsquo;m going to ask another question. You, who might be having
situations like this, and all of you are to one degree or another, why
are you picking on the one, or two, or three individuals who are
insisting upon being hateful and being preoccupied by your inability to
change them, when you have a hundred others in your experience with whom
you can dialogue and communicate and grow together? What is your
addiction to what you see as a call for help that you know is not
genuine? What I mean by that is that although at the bottom line every
call for help is a call for help, there are those who are calling for
help because they&rsquo;re getting a hit from being unpleasant. They are
getting a feeling of power which they are consciously choosing to employ
because they know it&rsquo;s upsetting and they want to see you squirm.
And they have no intent of letting you off the hook so that you can stop
squirming.

Why do you have an addiction to trying to change them? What I&rsquo;m
trying to point out to you is that the practical fact is that there will
be no &hellip; there will be no &hellip; not enough defenselessness for
there to be a joining and a blending of the two of you where
communication can occur. And you must wait until they open up and are
willing to let someone in and they are willing to stop this behavior, at
least with you. If they know that you have a commitment to being the
Evidence of Love and they think that that means that you should stand
there in the face of their ongoing attack that has as its purpose to
make you uncomfortable so that they can watch you squirm, they must
learn something about what it means for you to wish to be only the
Evidence of Love. Because wishing to be the Evidence of Love and being
the Evidence of Love will never involve your saying &ldquo;okay&rdquo;
to that kind of behavior.

If you say &ldquo;okay&rdquo; to that kind of behavior, you&rsquo;re
presenting no call for correction on their part. And so the first part
of your expressing Love and being the Evidence of Love is to say
&ldquo;No&rdquo; to the behavior absolutely, and that until the behavior
changes, there can be no active relationship. Then, they will be faced
with the fact that they must recognize that they must change their
behavior. Just as when you&rsquo;re reaching out to God in anger and
frustration, whether it&rsquo;s at God or whether it&rsquo;s at a
Brother or Sister, you will have to arrive at a point where after having
received no answer, that you decide to settle down your willfulness and
your projection of hate so that there&rsquo;s enough peace and quiet
within you to hear God&rsquo;s Answer, where there&rsquo;s enough
absence of willfulness that the Will of God can register with you.

And every single one of you has to come to this point. Every one of you
has to come to the point of yielding to God. And that always involves
yielding up your so-called right to an independent expression of
willfulness. Now if that&rsquo;s the only way you can approach God,
that&rsquo;s the only way your Brother or Sister can approach God that
is finding expression through you.

&ldquo;Well that feels really hard-nosed. Oh, this is the tough-love
love. I see. I understand.&rdquo; No. It&rsquo;s not tough love.
It&rsquo;s just simple intelligence and it is a matter of coming to a
realization within yourself that there really is a way that things work.

No little, private, separate egos are making up rules of any sort, even
though that&rsquo;s what egos busy themselves with. There is a Divine
Order to things. I&rsquo;m sorry. Mind is a Singularity. And you know
what that means? It means that no matter how hard you try to be
fragmented, you can&rsquo;t succeed because that&rsquo;s the way it
works. And so if you want to experience connection with God, with the
Holy Spirit, with your Guide, with the Place of Excellence in you, so
that you&rsquo;re feeling and experiencing it and inspired by it and
enlarged in your Awareness of What You Are by it, you must abandon your
insistence upon being some sort of really unique and interesting,
complex, fragmented presence. Is that clear? Does that make sense? Why?
Because that&rsquo;s the Way It Works. You must cooperate with the Way
Things Are. And there is the larger context than the infrastructure of
private, defensive thoughts and concepts that you have all developed.
And that larger context is your Home.

Now, let&rsquo;s continue. The next section is called:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*The Defense of Conflict*

We once said that without projection there can be no anger, but it is
also true that without projection there can be no love.
</div>

Listen to this.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Projection is a fundamental law of the mind, and therefore one which
ALWAYS operates.
</div>

How many of you thought the word &ldquo;projection&rdquo; was a dirty
word? But it &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is a fundamental law of the mind, and therefore one which
ALWAYS operates. It is the law by which you create and were created. It
is the law &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; projection is &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the law which unifies the Kingdom, and keeps it in the Mind of
God. To the ego, the law &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; of projection.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is perceived as a way of getting RID of something it does NOT
want.
</div>

So it projects it out there as though it&rsquo;s not its own. It gets
rid of it.

But &hellip; (I&rsquo;m adding the word, &ldquo;but.&rdquo;)

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To the Holy Spirit, it &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; projection &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is the fundamental law of sharing by which you GIVE what you
value in order to keep it in your OWN mind.

Projection, to the Holy Spirit, is the law of extension. To the ego, it
is the law of deprivation. It &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the law of projection &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; therefore produces abundance or scarcity, depending on how you
choose to apply it. This choice IS up to you, but it is NOT up to you to
decide whether or not you will UTILIZE projection. Every mind MUST
project because that is how it lives, and every mind IS life. The
ego&rsquo;s use of projection must be fully understood before its
inevitable association between projection and anger can be finally
undone.
</div>

And listen to this:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego ALWAYS tries to preserve conflict. It is very ingenious in
devising ways which SEEM to diminish conflict because it does NOT want
you to find conflict so intolerable that you will INSIST on giving it
up. Therefore, the ego tries to persuade you that IT can free you of
conflict, lest you give the EGO up and free YOURSELF.
</div>

How many times during the week might you find yourself in a position or
situation that calls for correction and you say, &ldquo;I know what to
do about this. My experience tells me that if I do this and that and the
other thing, I will be able to move things in a new direction.&rdquo;
Well, somebody says, &ldquo;Did you check in with your Guide?&rdquo;
&ldquo;Oh! I can handle this one. I can &hellip; I don&rsquo;t &hellip;
that&rsquo;s &hellip; that&rsquo;ll take too long. I can handle this
one.&rdquo; The ego says, &ldquo;I can handle this one. I can free you
of conflict lest you give me up and free yourself.&rdquo; You get it?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the ego tries to persuade you that IT can free you of conflict,
lest you give the EGO up and free YOURSELF. The ego, using its own
warped version of the laws of God&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you see? There&rsquo;s the Singularity again. There are no
other Laws to use. There&rsquo;s no other Reality to be in. You&rsquo;re
in the Kingdom of Heaven which is governed by the Laws of God, and
you&rsquo;re either experiencing it truly, or you&rsquo;re experiencing
it through the lens of the definitions you have made-up about it. But
because Mind is Singular, you will be using the Laws, the only Laws
there are to accomplish, or to seem to accomplish, what you&rsquo;re
doing. And because the Laws of Being serve to support Being in Its
Infinite Singularity without conflict in it, every attempt you make to
do something unintelligent will have an unintelligent result. Every
impossible thing you attempt to do will never be done.

And so, when you&rsquo;re trying to operate on your own, every
experience will be a failure of one sort or another. Why? Because Mind
is a Singularity, and therefore the intent set into motion by virtue of
sharing, or extension, is going to bear identical fruit. The fruit will
reflect perfectly the intent because Mind is a Singularity. And the
intent to do something impossible will bear the fruit of failure. And
the intent to be what you are not will be uncomfortable. To do what is
not natural, and which is therefore impossible, will provide you with an
experience that identifies its unnaturalness and its impossibility. And
you call that suffering. And you call it the human condition. And your
ego says it can free you of this. When what needs to happen is you need
to abandon the ego&rsquo;s vantage point. You need to abandon attempting
to do the impossible. You need to stop using the Laws of God to
demonstrate that you can&rsquo;t succeed at using them improperly. Again
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego, using its own warped version of the laws of God, utilizes the
power of the mind ONLY to defeat the mind&rsquo;s real purpose. It
projects conflict FROM your mind to OTHER minds&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; &ldquo;They did it! It&rsquo;s their fault! I wouldn&rsquo;t be
having so much trouble if they weren&rsquo;t doing blah, blah, blah,
blah.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It projects conflict FROM your mind to OTHER minds, in an attempt to
persuade you that you have gotten RID of it.
</div>

&ldquo;It&rsquo;s their fault. It&rsquo;s not my problem. I didn&rsquo;t
cause it. They&rsquo;re the cause of it.&rdquo;

But remember we talked last week about the fact that, yes, you did cause
it. You caused it by first of all saying, &ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;d
rather see it my way.&rdquo; You didn&rsquo;t value the Father&rsquo;s
Way of experiencing the Kingdom of Heaven as the Kingdom of Heaven. You
said, &ldquo;I&rsquo;d rather experience it as something else.&rdquo;
But then, you don&rsquo;t want to own, take responsibility for, the way
you&rsquo;re experiencing the Kingdom of Heaven. So you do the only
thing you can do because being is a matter of projecting. You project
the cause of your suffering out there. Why? So that you can be squeaky
clean. &ldquo;You innocent little bastard, you.&rdquo; And the word
&ldquo;bastard&rdquo; is not a dirty word. It&rsquo;s the truth because
you have gotten a bill of divorcement, haven&rsquo;t you? Parentless.
Fatherless. Motherless. You see, you thought it was so great to be
asserting some self-authority, and you turned yourself into a bastard.
You didn&rsquo;t expect it. And you don&rsquo;t want to acknowledge it
either. So now everyone else &hellip; everyone else is the bastard. And
now it&rsquo;s a dirty word. They are a bastard.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This has several fallacies which may not be so apparent.

Strictly speaking, conflict cannot BE projected precisely BECAUSE it
cannot be fully shared.
</div>

The intent [small laugh] &hellip; the intent is to do something
impossible, and so you can&rsquo;t succeed. Why? Because using the Laws
of God which are Singular in an Infinite Environment which is Singular,
the attempt to do the impossible is impossible. Now there is just pure
and simple logic.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Any attempt to keep PART of it and get rid of another part does not
really mean ANYTHING.
</div>

Why? Because you can&rsquo;t fragment or divide a Singularity that is
absolute and unchangeable. You just can&rsquo;t. You might fool yourself
into believing that you have. And that&rsquo;s called the human
condition. But you can&rsquo;t do it!

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Remember that a conflicted teacher is a poor teacher AND A POOR LEARNER.
His lessons are confused, and their transfer value is severely limited
BY his confusion. A second fallacy is the idea that you can get RID of
something you do not want by giving it away.
</div>

Now, I&rsquo;m going to add these words.

Because the Laws of God are Singular and because Being is Singular and
because Mind is Singular:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
GIVING it &hellip;
</div>

Now I&rsquo;m reading.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
GIVING it is how you KEEP it.
</div>

That&rsquo;s just the Way It Works. So, in your ignorance, thinking you
are a private, separate, little mind with rights of your own and
authority of your own, you think that if you have something that you
don&rsquo;t want and you give it away, you will no longer have it. And
you&rsquo;re dead wrong, because the moment you give something away, you
have it. That&rsquo;s the Law of Singularity.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The belief that by giving it OUT you have excluded it from WITHIN is a
complete distortion of the power of extension.

That is why those who project from the ego &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and you all know who they are, right? You.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
That is why those who project from the ego are vigilant for their OWN
safety. They ARE afraid that their projections will return and hurt
them. They DO believe they have blotted their projections from their OWN
minds, but they also believe their projections are trying to creep back
INTO them. That is because the projections have NOT left their minds,
and this, in turn, forces them to engage in compulsive activity in order
NOT to recognize this.
</div>

Is that insanity or what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You CANNOT perpetuate an illusion about another WITHOUT perpetuating it
about yourself.
</div>

There is no way out of this. Why? Because it is impossible to fragment
your mind. Why is it impossible to fragment your mind? Because Mind is a
Singularity. Always has been. Always will be. Is now. Because
there&rsquo;s no other condition of the existence of Mind available.

Now I&rsquo;ve got to return to this sticky little subject about other
people&rsquo;s behavior and how you respond, because this sentence can
be used as a basis for your staying in a situation of continuing to be
abused. Here it is.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You CANNOT perpetuate an illusion about another WITHOUT perpetuating it
about yourself.
</div>

And the ego wants to come in and say, &ldquo;Well if I&rsquo;m saying
that their behavior is unacceptable and they cannot behave that way in
my Presence, am I not creating a picture that is untrue about them and
projecting it on them, and thereby making it true about me? And is not
the whole process one that continues the illusion, the problem, rather
than healing it?&rdquo; Is anybody not understanding me? Well, if you
are, just rewind the tape and listen to what I just said over again.
I&rsquo;m not going to repeat it right now.

When you say to another, &ldquo;We cannot continue this involvement
until you&rsquo;re willing to modify your behavior, until you&rsquo;re
willing to exercise a little self-control and stop behaving in such an
obtuse way&hellip; ,&rdquo; if you are going to say that to someone, it is
not to say they are bad. It is not to say they are wrong. It is not a
judgment. It is an observation of behavior that they are engaging in
consciously, on purpose. And you are saying, &ldquo;I will not join with
you in agreeing with you that this behavior represents what is true
about you. And so I will not let this false presentation continue in my
presence. I will not honor its expression in my presence because I know
the Truth about you. And until you&rsquo;re willing to express a little
bit more of it with me, sayonara. I honor the Integrity of your Being
too much to allow you to cover it up with this behavior and expect me to
accept it.&rdquo; That is Love because it doesn&rsquo;t honor something
in them that they want you to honor. And they want you to honor their
right to be themselves in any fashion that they choose, whether
it&rsquo;s loving or loveless. And you must say &ldquo;No.&rdquo;

And when you say &ldquo;No,&rdquo; it doesn&rsquo;t mean they&rsquo;re a
bad person. It doesn&rsquo;t mean that you have a negative concept about
them. It says that you respect What&rsquo;s True about them too much to
allow them to present themselves this way and expect you to believe that
that&rsquo;s them and accept that it is them. You won&rsquo;t do it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You CANNOT &hellip;
</div>

I&rsquo;m repeating &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You CANNOT perpetuate an illusion about another WITHOUT perpetuating it
about yourself.
</div>

And if you stand without objection in the presence of another who is
being insane and wanting you to accept their insanity as the Truth about
them, you must say &ldquo;No.&rdquo; Because if you do agree with them
and you agree with their right to behave in a way that doesn&rsquo;t
reflect What&rsquo;s Real about them, you are then agreeing that an
illusion is real and you are confirming it in them, and you are thereby,
because Mind is Singular, confirming it about yourself. Does that make
sense? Do you see that? Good. If nothing else has been made clear today,
that is a major step forward. And we are going to end there.

I know that the Idea of Singularity has been difficult to grasp the
Meaning of, and I know that I have been very repetitive, but it&rsquo;s
because it&rsquo;s so essential to understand. And it&rsquo;s because it
is such a simplicity that if you don&rsquo;t get it in its simplicity,
whatever we read from now on is going to seem complex. And you will
think that waking up is a complex thing, when it&rsquo;s not.

&ldquo;Can we get on to something fresh and new and stimulating?&rdquo;
Don&rsquo;t worry. We will. We will.

I love you all. And I look forward to being with you next week. Thank
you.

[^1]: T7.7 The Total Commitment

