---
title: Jul 11, 2004
ref: Discussion
---

Good afternoon. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

Before I give you the page numbers, I want to take a moment to backtrack
a little. It&rsquo;s very easy to become confused about the ego. And
last week we read that you create an ego for yourself, and you create an
ego for everyone else. Mm. So does that mean that when someone else
behaves badly, it is as though you are behaving them badly because you
are the one who created their ego? Are you responsible for their bad
behavior? And if they are exhibiting bad behavior, are you responsible
for correcting it? And if you don&rsquo;t correct it, are you guilty for
not correcting it? If you don&rsquo;t pay attention to the obvious, if
you get too much into your head, it becomes very sticky and complex and
complicated. So let&rsquo;s back way up.

We&rsquo;re going to back up to the place where you said, &ldquo;Father,
I&rsquo;d rather see things my way.&rdquo; We&rsquo;re going to back up
to the place where you got your divorce from your Father, at that point
where you said in so many words, &ldquo;I want to give the definition to
this and to that and to everything else. And I&rsquo;m not going to pay
any attention to the Meanings, You, Father, have embodied in everything
that I&rsquo;m now going to give a new definition to.&rdquo; As I said,
in that act of separation, you lost your clear experience of your
Identity. You became an orphan, so to speak. And the way in which that
was experienced was that as you gave definitions to everything, you
realized, &ldquo;Mm. Something is here giving these definitions. I must
be someone in my own right. Well, who in the heck am I?&rdquo;

And of course, you&rsquo;re still asking that question, aren&rsquo;t
you? &ldquo;Who am I?&rdquo; As you began to formulate a definition of
who you were, who were as the author of new definitions of everything,
you began formulating an ego, a definition of yourself. Each of you as
you did this, you might say, gave definitions to things in different
orders from each other. Each of you moved away from the Conscious
Experience of Creation as God Is Being It in unique ways. And as a
result, the body of definitions and the meanings you were giving them
and how they related to each other became a unique complex of mental
constructs of ways of looking at things and what things meant relative
to each other. And so your formulation of your ego, your sense of
yourself, is very, very individual; different from each other.

Waking up, as I&rsquo;ve said before, is a matter of retracing these
steps that each of you took and undoing the definitions that you gave to
everything, as well as the meanings, and as well as how all of these
things that you gave definition to explain life in a larger context. The
only ego that you have created is the one you developed as a result of
your bill of divorcement from your Father and your becoming an orphan.
This is the only ego you can be responsible for undoing. You can only
let go of, undo, dissolve, that which you have created in your
imagination.

But now, we read that you also create an ego for everyone else. This is
where it&rsquo;s helpful to be clear. Anyone else who is caught in an
ego experience of being, is caught in their own set of self-definitions
that they created as a result of their bill of divorcement from the
Father. Just as, we&rsquo;ll say, when you were born you brought your
baggage with you into this life experience, each of you have brought
your own well-formed baggage with you into this experience. And no other
one in this experience is responsible for the suitcase and its contents
that you have brought with you with tight fists.

Now, if you have forgotten that you&rsquo;re connected to the Father, to
God, if you have forgotten that you are Divine Being and you think you
are the definition you have of yourself in which God and your Divinity
has been entirely forgotten, you are going to make a spontaneous
assumption that what you believe about yourself is true about everyone
else. And so you will form a picture about them in your mind and a
definition of them. And it will be absolutely colored by your own
definition of yourself. In effect, you will in your mind create an ego
for them which, mind you, has very little to do with the ego
they&rsquo;ve created for themselves. It&rsquo;s purely your own
creation, this ego that you see out there and that you talk about and
that has characteristics that you&rsquo;re so sure of.

And the fact is that you approach everyone on the basis of your
definition of them, the picture you have of them. You approach them on
that basis and you respond to what they say on the basis of how that
fits in with the picture you have of them. And so you&rsquo;re never
responding to them. You&rsquo;re always responding to them coupled with
the picture you have of them. And you think you&rsquo;re having
communication. And actually, they&rsquo;re doing the same thing with
you. So you&rsquo;re not even connecting with their egos. Do you see
what I&rsquo;m saying? You&rsquo;re not connecting with Who They
Divinely Are, but you&rsquo;re also not connecting with them as an ego,
the ego they see themselves to be. That&rsquo;s how complete the
separation is.

Now loving people, I&rsquo;m going to put it that way, people with whom
it&rsquo;s easy to be, people with whom it&rsquo;s easy to grow, and
I&rsquo;m saying this humanly speaking, are people who are willing to
sidestep the picture they have because they want to get to know you. And
this happens in most semi-permanent and permanent relationships. In
other words, there is a desire to connect with the ego that&rsquo;s
there, rather than the ego that you have pictured about them. And you
all experience this kind of attention as pleasing and satisfying and
fulfilling. You learn how to be vulnerable with each other, you say, how
to be real, how to be together in an undefended way. But mind you, this
is still you as an ego attempting to lower the barriers between you and
another ego and find some harmony, and some joy, some pleasure. But
always at the bottom line you are on guard because consciously, or
unconsciously, you know that your position as an orphan isn&rsquo;t
true, and therefore everything you&rsquo;re doing at the bottom line
isn&rsquo;t trustworthy. And therefore, no one that you&rsquo;re trying
to get to know and be undefended with is trustworthy either at the
bottom line. And so, no matter how close you get, you still remain on
guard and there isn&rsquo;t really unity.

There is a trap, you might say, there is a danger that you must watch
for when you are studying the Course, especially the Course, because it
is your natural habit to take whatever you bring into your experience
and incorporate it into your present sense of yourself. And so you try
to incorporate it into your present ego sense of yourself, your private
separated sense of self, so that you might become a better private,
separated sense of self. You don&rsquo;t realize that the function of
the Course is to entirely invalidate your separated sense of self, not
improve it. You don&rsquo;t realize that its function is to invalidate
it so that you abandon it. Why? Or for what? In order to connect once
again with the Divine One That You Are, with your right Mind, with your
&hellip; with the Mind That You Are that claims no separation from Its
Source.

The dangerous trap here is that it&rsquo;s very easy to begin to think
that because quote &ldquo;you create an ego for another&rdquo; unquote
that everything another is doing is a reflection of something
you&rsquo;re doing. And this is not true. It&rsquo;s no more true of you
than it is of me. Your ignorant behavior, I am not responsible for. Your
decision to give definitions to things by yourself, I am not responsible
for. And I&rsquo;ll tell you something else. Correcting you is not a
responsibility of mine which I&rsquo;ve failed at for at least 2,000
years. It is not my responsibility to straighten you out because I have
a poor perception of you. I am not creating you having a poor perception
of yourself.

But you know what? I am your Brother and that means you are my Brother.
It&rsquo;s not a one-way street. I am your Brother and you are my
Brother or Sister. We&rsquo;re Siblings. We&rsquo;re Family. And so, I
speak up if you&rsquo;re willing to listen. And those are key words. I
speak up if you are willing to listen. Because I want you to experience
your Birthright as Family. Because I don&rsquo;t want you to be
suffering and hurting. I don&rsquo;t do it because I&rsquo;m responsible
for your suffering. And I don&rsquo;t do it because I&rsquo;m
responsible for seeing to it that you don&rsquo;t suffer any longer. I
did not make your decision to get a divorce from the Father. And I
can&rsquo;t undo that decision. You must. And you must do it because
something in you wants to, not because someone has told you to, or told
you to so well that you were so inspired that you couldn&rsquo;t help
yourself. So that you couldn&rsquo;t help yourself.

Now, each one of you, like me, is responsible for abandoning the
pictures you have created in your mind about each other. You do have the
responsibility if you want to wake up, if you want to experience more
fulfillment in your life. You must undo and abandon the convictions you
have in your mind about your Brothers and Sisters, about your fellowman,
so that they do not stand in the way of your opportunity to recognize
What They Divinely Are. And also so that you have a better opportunity
for communication, even at the level of egos.

I&rsquo;ll tell you something. Kindness is kindness whether it&rsquo;s
expressed by One Who&rsquo;s Awake or one who sees himself as an ego.
You can&rsquo;t alter what Love is. You can&rsquo;t alter what kindness
is. And so it is valuable to abandon the picture you have created about
another that you hold between you and them like a sieve that only lets
through that of them which matches the picture you have of them.
It&rsquo;s well to abandon that. And it&rsquo;s well, humanly speaking,
to practice kindness more, and to be loving more. But that isn&rsquo;t
the answer, that isn&rsquo;t the ultimate answer.

The ultimate answer lies in everything that I&rsquo;ve been saying since
we started going through the Course, everything I&rsquo;ve been saying
about you. That you are absolutely Divine. That you aren&rsquo;t behind
the Point of Perfection, you&rsquo;re not moving toward it; you are
there right now. And that&rsquo;s where you need to comprehend yourself
from--at that Point.

I am reminding you that you are more than you thought you were so that
it might really begin to register with you. Why? Because until it
registers with you, you will not be able to conceive that it&rsquo;s
true about your Brother either, and you will not have the justification
for being open to a fuller experience of the Divinity of your Brother.
And you will not be able to recognize that your Brother&rsquo;s flaws
aren&rsquo;t real; [that they are] not actual. They&rsquo;re imagined
and believed. And until you can see that, you will not &hellip; you will
not be able to be an agent for change.

&ldquo;Oh! Oh!&rdquo; Now your ego grabs hold of that. &ldquo;Oh! So I
am supposed to be an agent for change. I am supposed to help my Brother.
I am supposed to heal my Brother. I am responsible for my Brother. And I
will be guilty if I don&rsquo;t, because I&rsquo;m supposed to be an
agent for change.&rdquo; No. You&rsquo;re supposed to be, what I&rsquo;m
going to call, an agent for confirmation, an agent for confirmation of
What Is True.

An agent for confirmation of What Is True is one who is no longer
joining in confirming what isn&rsquo;t true. An agent for confirmation
is one who doesn&rsquo;t confirm a Brother&rsquo;s ego that that Brother
thinks he has, and is, to him. You see? Because when you withdraw from
participating in that kind of confirmation, you weaken the ego&rsquo;s
game. And you weaken the ego&rsquo;s game, we&rsquo;re going to say,
socially with each other as you disregard it, because you are giving
preference to What Is True about them.

Now I mentioned that I respond to you when you&rsquo;re ready to listen.
The fact is that when you&rsquo;re not ready to listen, you don&rsquo;t
listen and so you don&rsquo;t hear. It&rsquo;s different in human
relationships. And you must listen, you must learn to listen carefully.
You must learn to observe carefully. And you must be willing not to
abide in what you wish. I mean by that, don&rsquo;t abide in a picture
you have of how you would like things to be.

You must pay attention to recognize the signs of whether when
you&rsquo;re confronted by a call for help from a Brother that Brother
is really wanting to change, or whether the call for help is the first
move in a competitive game of &ldquo;who&rsquo;s best,&rdquo; in a
competitive game of struggle because they like the experience of
struggle. Especially if that other one knows that you &hellip;
it&rsquo;s your nature to give the benefit of the doubt, that it&rsquo;s
your nature to want to see the best in them, that it&rsquo;s your nature
to not doubt them, that you are wanting to practice these things,
because then they can just wind you around their finger and yank and
make you uncomfortable, and ask for more &hellip; ask for more help so
that they can resist it even more and increase the dynamic. And your
spirituality must not be so airy-fairy that you don&rsquo;t want to look
squarely at the behavior and the motive behind this other one&rsquo;s
behavior.

To try to be an agent for change for someone who does not want to change
is foolish. And you know what? Your ego, and perhaps the ego of the
other, says, &ldquo;Oh! Well, you&rsquo;re not practicing what you
preach. Oh! You&rsquo;re not being very Christian because you should be
willing to hang in here with me. I know at least that much about the way
you see things and what&rsquo;s important about you. And you&rsquo;re
not being consistent with your very own standards.&rdquo; And they put
the screw to you a little bit more and get you to feeling guilty and
defensive, and then you really feel bad, if you&rsquo;re not clear about
what the ego is.

Each one of you has to retrace your very own steps that you took away
from your clear Mind, your right Mind. I can&rsquo;t do it for you. I
don&rsquo;t try to do it for you. I don&rsquo;t imply that I will or can
do it for you. I make it clear to you that this is something you have to
do. And you have to do it for your own reasons. I don&rsquo;t chase
after you and say, &ldquo;You need to change your mind.&rdquo; And
although that&rsquo;s not very satisfying to those who think they know
what a real helper is and how a real helper ought to be, I am telling
you that from moment one with you, I am telling you that the power is in
your hands and your hands alone. And you have the capacity to retrace
your steps. And that&rsquo;s empowering, because at all times I am
acknowledging that the power lies with you to undo what you did.

And let me tell you something else. You always have the capacity to undo
what you did because it&rsquo;s something you did. You can&rsquo;t be
overwhelmed by a task that&rsquo;s bigger than you&rsquo;re capable of
dealing with because you&rsquo;re just undoing a step that you already
took.

Now anyone who, for their own reasons, wants to remember What They
Divinely Are and wants to wake up, I will speak to and I will companion
with consciously. And we will, you might say, go Home together, or
become more conscious of Reality right &hellip; together. But those who
want to play games and tug-of-wars and battles in the name of waking up,
I leave alone, because there&rsquo;s nothing I can do until their own
willingness comes into play. Okay. So far, so good.

Now what if this someone whom you&rsquo;re willing to not engage with in
a tug-of-war, or a battle, or a power play, won&rsquo;t leave you alone?
What if they cry &ldquo;Help!&rdquo; louder and louder and more and more
obnoxiously. Not for the purpose of hearing the answer that would stop
their suffering, but for the dynamic of conflict and the sense of power
that they get from it and to which they are addicted.

Well I&rsquo;ll tell you, here&rsquo;s where you have to really be
&hellip; really be unchristian. What do I mean by that? I mean it in
this sense. Being a Christian is an idea. It&rsquo;s a definition.
It&rsquo;s a way of behaving that&rsquo;s been formulated through the
development of ideas that aren&rsquo;t any more real about you than any
of the other definitions you&rsquo;ve come up with. When someone
aggressively says, &ldquo;I am an ego. I am what I believe I am. And I
insist upon your acknowledging me for the ego I am. I require you to
join me in understanding me this way and accepting me this way. And I
will not give you any rest until you do so.&rdquo;, well, you&rsquo;re
going to have to find a way to say &ldquo;No.&rdquo; That&rsquo;s what I
mean by being unchristian. You have to find a way to bring that style of
relationship to an end.

And you know what? It isn&rsquo;t really that hard because there&rsquo;s
only one element that will keep it from being broken off, and
that&rsquo;s guilt. If you feel guilty in any way for saying
&ldquo;No,&rdquo; it will feed the other&rsquo;s fire. But when you come
to that place in you where you are saying &ldquo;No&rdquo; without
reservation in the slightest, when the &ldquo;No&rdquo; expresses a
Singularity in you, the absence of guilt will be immediately recognized.
And the one looking for conflict will have lost a mark. In other words,
that one will recognize that you truly are no longer available to play
the game. And that other one will not waste their time with you one more
moment. They will go off looking for another mark; someone else who can
be bamboozled.

That&rsquo;s why I said that there&rsquo;s a trap, a danger, in the way
the ego would tend to use or tempt you to use the Course. Because if you
can be fooled into thinking that you are actually yourself creating
another&rsquo;s bad behavior, and that you are creating an ego there
where they are, it will mean that you&rsquo;re responsible for the
problem you see, or the problem that is being presented to you. And you
will not be in a position to correct the dilemma because you will not
place the responsibility where it is--in them--and call for them to
correct their addiction to their ego sense of their self, their ego
sense of themselves. And you will have taken the bait.

And it will be almost impossible to become free of it until perhaps you
have arrived at a point where you are so miserable that you&rsquo;re
willing to be unchristian and say &ldquo;No&rdquo; for the sake of your
sanity, without reservation and without guilt. Until you say
&ldquo;No&rdquo; to the games, the games will not stop. And until the
games stop, there will be no opportunity for real change, real
correction to occur.

Now, until you withdraw, until you abandon, in your own mind the ego you
have created for another by having developed definitions of them, until
you do that and until you have arrived at a point where you&rsquo;re
willing to acknowledge that maybe, just maybe, you&rsquo;re an
absolutely, utterly Divine Being that needs a clearer and fuller
experience of his Divinity, you will not be in a position to recognize
that that Divinity is there in your Brother as well, in spite of his or
her bad behavior. And you therefore will not understand that that one
has the capacity in his or her own right, just as you do, to retrace his
or her steps, which is what is called for, which is the only thing that
will constitute correction. And until that happens in you, you&rsquo;re
liable, you&rsquo;re vulnerable, to being sucked into the games of
manipulation. And you&rsquo;re unable to be in any way an agent for
change.

Does any of this not make sense? I&rsquo;m asking. Are you making your
Brother behave badly? At the bottom line, no. Are you aggravating his
bad behavior? All the time. And the reason you&rsquo;re aggravating his
bad behavior is because you&rsquo;re looking from an ego frame of
reference and you are seeing an ego out there, and you are not therefore
responding to him, whether it&rsquo;s his actual ego, if I may use those
words, or to the Divine One That He Really Is. And so your perceptions
of him cause you to behave in a way that doesn&rsquo;t involve real
communication, and will therefore always misrepresent you and
misrepresent them and confound the dilemma even further. Does that make
sense?

But, saying &ldquo;No&rdquo; to the game seems to meet with the same
response as aggravating the bad behavior, because when you say
&ldquo;No,&rdquo; you&rsquo;re withdrawing from the game. You&rsquo;re
not available for the game any longer. You&rsquo;re not in the game any
longer. The other one who is into game playing says, &ldquo;Foul! Foul!
Foul play! You&rsquo;re not playing by the rules! You are bad. You are
guilty of something.&rdquo; When that happens, you have to understand
that your behavior, that this behavior, is not the behavior that
aggravates and increases the ego sense of your Brother. Saying
&ldquo;No&rdquo; is a disengagement from the game and it constitutes an
act on your part that lessens the weakening effect that joining with a
Brother in an ego game magnifies. And you must say &ldquo;No&rdquo; and
disengage and remain disengaged, knowing that whatever wailing and
crying and foul play is hurled at you, that nevertheless the act you
have engaged in is the only sane thing you can do and is truly the only
thing that will contribute anything to that other&rsquo;s opportunity to
wake up. Is there anything unclear about that?

Now, if you&rsquo;re not responsible for your Brother, let me ask you
this. Are you responsible to him? Do you have any responsibility to your
Brother? Yes, you do. You have the responsibility not to weaken him. You
have the responsibility not to behave in a way that nurtures increasing
ignorance. You have a responsibility, you might say, to provide an
environment in which he or she feels safe enough to let down his or her
defenses and let something new in. From where? From you? No. From that
Source that that one got a divorce from.

I am an agent for change. And I am a good agent for change to the degree
that I make you feel comfortable enough to let go of control and explore
the Experience of Peace and to dare to let yourself be guided by the
Father, That Which Is Being You. But that&rsquo;s all I can do is to
provide a sense, and perhaps an experience, of enough safety and
security in your mind that you&rsquo;re willing to experiment with
abandoning the ways in which you control so as to feel safe. So that you
might have the opportunity to have the experience of safety that is not
the result of what you&rsquo;ve done. So that you might find that safety
is the State of Being itself, just plain old Being, which means that
nothing that you do has to be done out of defense or for
self-protection.

All the ego is, is the particular ideas, concepts, and interpretations
you have gathered together and used as the definition of you in the
absence of your clear and direct experience of your Identity which is
God-derived. In other words, it is what you experience when you are
ignoring God.

This past week Susan&rsquo;s guidance shared the clarity with her that
the Holy Spirit is God Being You, and the ego is you being god. God
Being You is not you being anything. God being you, God initiating you,
God authorizing your existence, God being your existence is what you
have to yield to. Being out of control is what is needed in order to
have the experience of the fullness of what it means that God Is Being
You, so that the Wholeness of God is your Conscious Experience Of Being,
and All of Creation that God Is Being is your Conscious Experience of
Being. So that in the absence of conflict of any kind, you feel and
experience the Joy, the Harmony, the Fulfillment of no lack anywhere in
you, in your Conscious Experience.

When you attend college, there are some courses that you take that have
prerequisites, which means there&rsquo;s another course or two that have
to be taken first before you can take this course. There are certain
prerequisites that one must fulfill in order to get help. There&rsquo;s
actually only one prerequisite, and that prerequisite is that you have
to be willing to receive it. Simple. If the asking for help has any
other purpose, if there is any other goal attached to the request for
help, don&rsquo;t take the bait. And the moment you find out that there
is some other motive behind the request for help, the call for help,
disengage from the dynamic of the helping relationship. Be wise. Be
clear. And don&rsquo;t let guilt creep in to the embodiment of your
clarity, the actions that result from your clarity, when you say
&ldquo;No&rdquo; and mean it. Nothing will promote the end of illusion
faster than withdrawal from participating in it. Nothing will dispel
illusion faster than withdrawal from participating in it.

Now I hope that what we&rsquo;ve been reading in the Course has been
made more relevant, practically speaking, in your lives, so that you
know what is your responsibility and what is not, what can be done and
what can&rsquo;t be done. So that you don&rsquo;t try to do what&rsquo;s
impossible, and then feel guilty if you&rsquo;re not able to accomplish
it.

There are those who will use your spirituality, your devotion to the
Truth, for their own unscrupulous purposes so as to make you
uncomfortable. Actually they&rsquo;ll use anything available to them
that you offer for their unscrupulous purposes, whether it is your
spiritual values or your love of Truth, or whether it&rsquo;s just your
simple gullibility. And you must learn to recognize when this is
happening and disengage.

Don&rsquo;t be so airy-fairy that you think that the idea that
there&rsquo;s someone who will use the good about you for their
unscrupulous reasons, don&rsquo;t believe that that thought creates it
out there and that you&rsquo;re guilty of that creation. And also
don&rsquo;t think that to be truly spiritual you must not see anything
like that in your Brother or Sister. Because your Brothers and Sisters
to one degree or another are not awake, and everything they do will be
self-serving to their present sense of themselves.

And you must understand that so that you are grounded and not able to be
fooled, and not be spiritually gullible, so that you can address the
issue which really needs to be addressed. And the issue that needs to be
addressed when another, for unscrupulous reasons, is asking for help is
to provide &ldquo;No&rdquo; as a response and be unavailable. Because
until their game playing has become so unfulfilling to them that
they&rsquo;re willing to really look for a new way to be, there is no
purpose whatsoever in your engaging with them in response to a call for
help, because the call for help is a ploy, is not what it appears to be.
You must be able to be grounded enough to recognize that, and sane
enough to do what needs to be done. Until no one is willing to play that
game with that person, they will not seek for something new to do with
their time and their mind. When they are truly looking for something new
to do with their time and their mind, then you respond. I can&rsquo;t be
any more black-and-white, simple, straightforward, and helpful on this
issue than that.

I love you all. And I look forward to being with you next week. And I
look forward to all of you being able to be perhaps more sober this
week, unafraid to look at things straight. If you do, there will be more
peace and less of an experience of vulnerability, which you all deserve.
Everyone deserves it.

