---
title: Jul 18, 2004
ref: "T7.9 The Extension of the Kingdom"
alink: "/acim/text/07/chap0709/"
---

Good afternoon. And welcome to everyone who is joining us on the
internet.

It may seem a difficult thing to grasp this concept or this idea of what
am I going to say? Singularity. But what you need to understand is that
Reality is going on right now, Reality with a capital &ldquo;R&rdquo;,
and it&rsquo;s not going on somewhere else. And there is a Real You and
it&rsquo;s not going on somewhere else. If it were, there would be
fragmentation. There wouldn&rsquo;t be Singularity.

And so what we&rsquo;ve been reading about, and what we will continue to
be reading about, is what&rsquo;s really going on right here, right now,
so that you might grasp the fact that the Experience of Reality and the
Experience of your Real Self is only a perception away. It&rsquo;s not a
lifetime away. It&rsquo;s not a dimension away. You could say it&rsquo;s
only a MISperception away. It seems as though we may be talking about
something irrelevant to your life; something [whispered] spiritual
[regular voice] that&rsquo;s very different. And if you think that, you
will distance yourself from a miracle, a sudden shift of perception in
which you suddenly see Reality more clearly right here, right now, and
at the same time have a new and clearer experience of What You Are right
here, right now.

So let&rsquo;s begin.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have NOT failed to add to the inheritance of the Sons of
God&hellip;[^1]
</div>

&hellip; in other words, you while you&rsquo;ve been playing the part of
an ego, in which you&rsquo;ve actually been doing nothing while you
think you are doing a lot, have in truth continued to be the
full-fledged Son or Daughter of God, and you have continued to
contribute to the whole, which is what it means by &ldquo;the
inheritance of the Sons of God.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have NOT failed to add to the inheritance of the Sons of God, and
thus have not failed to secure it for yourselves.
</div>

Remember again, what you give, you keep. What you extend, you make true
for you.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If it was the Will of God to give it to you&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your inheritance &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; He gave it forever. If it was His Will that you have it
forever, He gave you the means for keeping it, AND YOU HAVE DONE SO.
</div>

In other words, Reality has continued unaffected by your fantastic
daydream.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Disobeying God&rsquo;s Will &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; or, you might say, the idea of disobeying it, because you
can&rsquo;t actually disobey it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Disobeying God&rsquo;s Will is meaningful only to the insane. In truth
it is impossible.
</div>

And I would add, as an expression of Singularity: In Truth it is
impossible, and therefore has not been done.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your self-fullness is as boundless as God&rsquo;s. Like His, it extends
forever and in perfect peace. Its radiance is so intense that it creates
in perfect joy, and only the whole can be born of its wholeness.
</div>

Now I&rsquo;m going to tell you something. Even in the midst of every
effort you make to be an authority over your life, a creator of your
life, the definer of your life and everything in it, and even though for
the most part it has all been an act of defense against being conscious
of your God-ness, if I may put it that way, a denial of God in your
affirmation of yourself alone, you still can&rsquo;t stop being What You
Are. And so you still manage to express Love. And your expression of
Love is an extension of something Real. Sometimes your motives
aren&rsquo;t the best for extending it, but it doesn&rsquo;t change the
fact that you still are extending Love.

And so you are still expressing the Fullness of You, and you are, if I
may put it this way, substantiating the Fullness of the Brotherhood.
There are times that you insightfully recognize Truth and express it.
And in expressing it, you do make it your own, even though you tend not
to pay as much attention to it or value it as fully as you ought to. But
it remains a gift of extension that blesses the whole Brotherhood.

Now, continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Be confident that you have never lost your identity and the extensions
which maintain it in wholeness and peace.
</div>

We&rsquo;ve talked about the fact that when you instituted the bill of
divorcement from your Source, from the Father, God, you became an orphan
in effect experientially and you lost your Identity, because that which
gave you Identity was your Father.

But it says here:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Be confident that you have never lost your identity and the extensions
which maintain it in wholeness and peace.
</div>

If you haven&rsquo;t lost it, you haven&rsquo;t become less than What
You Truly Are. And therefore, you do not need to feel guilty just
because someone has convinced you that you have become less than You
Are. It can&rsquo;t happen. You can ignore it, the Wholeness of You, you
can deny it and insist upon operating autonomously, but you can&rsquo;t
get rid of it. And it doesn&rsquo;t stop being the Fact of You and so
it&rsquo;s the Fact of You right now. And that&rsquo;s why I keep saying
right now is where to pay attention for it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Be confident that you have never lost your identity and the extensions
which maintain it in wholeness and peace. Miracles are an EXPRESSION of
this confidence.
</div>

Well, what does that mean? Well, what are miracles? Miracles are sudden
shifts of perception in which Truth is clearer to you. Miracles occur
when you dare to act on the basis that you&rsquo;ve never lost your
Identity, that you&rsquo;ve never become less than You Are Truly. When
you dare to feel some confidence that the Ultimate Truth About You is
the Truth About You right now, you are primed for sudden shifts of
perception, miracles, that transform your perception of yourself and
your Brother, yourself and the world.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
They &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; miracles &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; are reflections both of your own proper identification with
your brothers, and of your own awareness that your identification IS
maintained by extension.
</div>

By extension. By daring to say, &ldquo;I wish to see the Evidence of
Love. I wish to be the Evidence of Love.&rdquo; Love, with a capital
&ldquo;L&rdquo;. Love that has its source in the Father, flowing through
you and given away, as the willingness to acknowledge What Is Real, with
a capital &ldquo;R&rdquo;, in each and every thing.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The miracle is a LESSON IN TOTAL PERCEPTION.
</div>

Meaning perception that isn&rsquo;t private. It means perception that is
inclusive of everything. Not only in that you&rsquo;re not holding
everything away from you as a thing for you to define, but in that you
are allowing yourself to be open to the experience of the fact that all
of it is part of the Infinitude of your Being, which is without limits.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
By including ANY part of totality in the lesson, you HAVE included the
whole.
</div>

When you&rsquo;re willing to Love and allow that Extension of Love to be
something more than a private personal gift you are giving as something
standing apart from what is being given to, the Singularity of Being is
able to pop into focus. And so, whatever it might be&mdash;a flower, the
person sitting next to you, your pet, a tree&mdash;whatever individual
thing you are willing to be undefended in the presence of, undefended
against while you are in the presence of it, primes you to have a shift
of perception in which you experienced the fact that that one thing that
you were willing to be undefended against and to be inclusive of, has
become a stepping stone for you to feel the fact that that gift has
embraced everything and everything is embracing you back, so that you
find that you&rsquo;re no longer being the initiator or the giver of
good separate from everything, but that the giving and the receiving
are, for lack of better words, circular, whole, not divided up into
giving and receiving.

You don&rsquo;t realize it but absolutely every thing you see is the
Presence and Substance of Love, the Father&rsquo;s Love, patterned in a
way that is experienceable, including you, and every thing is loving
you. Every thing is extending the Love that the Father has placed in it
by creating it with His Love, because of Love, and therefore everything
is extending Love, even if you don&rsquo;t think it&rsquo;s animate or
conscious.

And so, when you are willing to be undefended against the Reality of the
flower, or the Reality, the capital &ldquo;R&rdquo; Reality, of any
object you are observing, you are not setting into a motion a chain
reaction where you love it, and because of your undefendedness it
decides to love you back in response. No. When you become undefended
against it, you allow yourself to be receptive to the Love with which it
has been loving you eternally. And so you come into an Experience of
Something that has always been. You see? So you don&rsquo;t get love
back from it because you&rsquo;ve finally arrived at a point where
you&rsquo;re willing to let the Father&rsquo;s Love flow through you,
because you have an object of your affection, something you care about,
and then you cause that object of your affection to [snap of the
fingers] transform and love you back. You see, it&rsquo;s not a cause
and effect thing.

It&rsquo;s that again&mdash;the willingness to be undefended with
another, or with an object, any thing. The willingness to be undefended
against it allows the Love of God to flow through you because
that&rsquo;s your Function. And it causes your eyes to become opened to
the Love with which every thing always has been, and is now, loving you
with. And so you come into, not a cause and effect experience, but an
experience of the stable, ongoing, permanent, active Movement of Love
extended and extending that constitutes, for lack of better words, the
fundamental Tone and Meaning and Fullness of Being.

Now this next sentence was directed at Helen, but it can apply to any of
you who might have the same thought.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have said that, when you write of the Kingdom &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in other words, as I was sharing with her these words.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have said that, when you write of the Kingdom and your creations
which belong in it, you are describing WHAT YOU DO NOT KNOW.
</div>

You see? And as you read the Course, don&rsquo;t you have the feeling
that you&rsquo;re reading about what you do not know about something
that&rsquo;s foreign, or different, or other-worldly, or out there, or
in another lifetime, or in another dimension, and so on?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have said that, when you write &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what I&rsquo;m dictating to you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; of the Kingdom and your creations which belong in it, you are
describing WHAT YOU DO NOT KNOW. That is true in a sense, but no more
true than your failure to acknowledge the whole result of the
ego&rsquo;s premises. The Kingdom is the result of premises, just as
this world is.

You HAVE carried the ego&rsquo;s reasoning to its logical conclusion,
which is &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; TOTAL CONFUSION ABOUT EVERYTHING. Yet you do not really BELIEVE
this, or you could not possibly maintain it. If you really saw this
result, you could not WANT it.
</div>

And I&rsquo;m adding, if you see something clearly for what it is and
it&rsquo;s obvious to you that you don&rsquo;t want it, you release it.
It&rsquo;s of no use to you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The only reason why you could possibly want ANY part of it is because
you do NOT see the whole of it.
</div>

In other words, the only reason you want your ego perceptions and an ego
frame of reference and to function as an ego is because you don&rsquo;t
see the whole picture of what the ego amounts to. And simply put,
we&rsquo;ve discussed two weeks ago that all there is to the ego is you
wearing a mask. Now if you saw that, really, you would abandon it.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You are willing to look at the ego&rsquo;s premises, but NOT at their
logical outcome.
</div>

Now listen.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Is it not possible that you have done the same thing with the premises
of God?

Your creations ARE the logical outcome of His premises. HIS thinking has
established them FOR you. They are therefore there, EXACTLY where they
belong.
</div>

The Ultimate, I&rsquo;m adding, the Ultimate is already present and
functioning right now, right where you are.

I&rsquo;m not going to ask you what you think God&rsquo;s Premises are
because you don&rsquo;t have the faintest idea. But one way I can convey
to you what the word &ldquo;premise&rdquo; means here is that there is a
fundamental premise of Being. There is a fundamental premise of the
Existence of God for God. And that fundamental premise is &ldquo;I
AM.&rdquo; Everything That God Is follows from that premise. And that
premise is not fragmented into, &ldquo;I think I&rsquo;m this. And I
think I&rsquo;m that. And I&rsquo;m positive I&rsquo;m the other thing.
And I&rsquo;m positive I&rsquo;m not that.&rdquo; The premise is
Singular. I AM. That premise of the Conscious Experience Of Being is
itself the initiator of the Movement of Conscious Awareness called the
Movement of Being. Everything follows from It and is like It. The word
&ldquo;am&rdquo; is a form of the verb &ldquo;to be,&rdquo; and the verb
is an action. Being is Movement. So, that gives you a sense of what the
word &ldquo;premise&rdquo; means as its being used here&mdash;the
premises of God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your creations ARE the logical outcome of His premises.
</div>

Well, your creations arise out of the fundamental element, if you will,
of your being conscious, which is &ldquo;I am.&rdquo; I&rsquo;m going to
put it this way. If the fundamental premise of your experience was
&ldquo;I don&rsquo;t exist,&rdquo; you would never get out of bed in the
morning. You would never raise a finger. You would never attempt to
think a thought and you would never be open to a True Idea. Your premise
would be a block to the Conscious Experience Of Being.

Now, God is the fundamental presence/premise &ldquo;I AM.&rdquo; And as
I said that constitutes a Movement of Mind. And that Movement is
experienceable, we&rsquo;re going to say, to God. It becomes observable
to God. And God, Presence of Mind that is moving, because the premise is
&ldquo;I AM,&rdquo; sees everything that the Movement is causing to be
extended into pattern and recognizable, for lack of better words, form.
And God says, &ldquo;That&rsquo;s Me. That&rsquo;s Me. That&rsquo;s
Me.&rdquo; And God saw everything that He had made by virtue of the
premise &ldquo;I AM,&rdquo; and behold, it was verily God. God, Mind,
recognizes Itself as that which is moving. And so God could say,
&ldquo;I am that. I am that. I am that.&rdquo; God recognizes Himself.
That&rsquo;s different from giving definitions. Because God looks at
what already is as a result of the Movement of the fundamental premise
of Being and lets what His Being has brought forth say to Him what He
is.

Are you following what I&rsquo;m saying? It might become clearer as I
explain to you how the ego does things.

Now, mind you, this fundamental premise of Being which is the Conscious
Experience of I AM which God Is, as It, because It is a Conscious
Movement of Mind, moves, the Movement is recognizable to that Mind which
is moving. And it&rsquo;s observed by Mind and Mind recognizes that what
It&rsquo;s seeing is the Movement of Itself. And so, let&rsquo;s say, if
it looks like a tree or it looks like a butterfly, Mind says, &ldquo;I
am that.&rdquo; I am that&mdash;what that is, I&rsquo;m going to put it
this way, I have been Being. So what It has extended, It has given to
Itself, and It keeps and provides It with Identity, an Experience of,
again these are poor words, an Experience of Selfhood. God knows
Himself. And God knowing Himself is Creation, the Movement of Creation.

Now, the ego doesn&rsquo;t have any other elements to work with than the
Real Ones that I&rsquo;ve just described. So the ego looks at the same
things that God/Mind looks at and recognizes Itself in, and it (the ego)
says, &ldquo;I&rsquo;m not going to let that define me. I&rsquo;m going
to define it.&rdquo; And the first premise is &ldquo;It&rsquo;s not
me.&rdquo; The second premise is that &ldquo;That thing that&rsquo;s not
me is a butterfly, or is a this, or a that.&rdquo; But the definition is
being applied to an already existent Real Presence. And the ego is not
letting that Presence tell it what it is. And the ego is not letting the
gift from that thing to register with it as confirmation of It. The ego
applies definitions to things. God lets the things that have arisen out
of the Movement of the premise &ldquo;I AM&rdquo; reflect back to Him,
with a capital &ldquo;H&rdquo;, What He Is. That&rsquo;s why Creation is
not a matter of cause and effect.

The Cause of Creation is the conscious premise &ldquo;I AM,&rdquo; the
Conscious Experience of existing, okay, that constitutes a Movement that
can be recognized, and God/Mind recognizes It, and It, as I said, causes
God to Know Himself. The Cause, the fundamental premise, is the Movement
that is the Event, not the effect, the Event that is recognizable to
Mind. So God is not creating secondary things called Creations. Mind is
creating the Conscious Experience of Self-Awareness. Creation is the
Movement of Mind recognizing Itself in the Movement. So the Cause of
Creation is what is being observed and called Creation.

Now I&rsquo;m putting this into words because you&rsquo;ll have the
opportunity to listen to it again. Creation is not the Effect of God
like the pottery is the effect of the potter and is different from the
potter. Mind moves and experiences the Movement, and recognizes Itself
in It, and what It&rsquo;s recognizing is Itself. So the Cause is the
Event being observed. Creation is the Movement of Mind observed by the
Mind that moved. That&rsquo;s the Singularity of it.

A cat walks in front of a mirror and sees something move out of the
corner of its eye and looks and sees another cat, and with no experience
with mirrors, it jumps because it thinks there&rsquo;s another cat
there. You, having experience with mirrors, look in the mirror and
recognize that this is not another person; it&rsquo;s you. And if
there&rsquo;s something out of alignment in the image, you make the
adjustment in you. Do you see what I&rsquo;m saying? You are the event
that you are observing that seems to be out there. And if you want
correction in the image, you make it in that of which the image is an
image, meaning you standing in front of the mirror.

The ego busies itself with trying to change images, not recognizing
itself in it, because its premise is &ldquo;I am not that.&rdquo;

So what&rsquo;s the upshot of this, the practical upshot? The practical
upshot of it is that every waking moment of your life, you are seeing
the Infinitude of You. But like the cat who doesn&rsquo;t make the
connection, you think it&rsquo;s different from you. You think
it&rsquo;s operating on its own. And because you cannot identify with
it, you are wary of it. And because you do not recognize that it&rsquo;s
you, you behave in an inconsistent way with everything, and bump up
against it and hurt yourself against it. But you say, &ldquo;I am in a
hostile environment.&rdquo; And so you protect yourself and you become
defensive.

The Experience of the Movement of Creation by Mind, with a capital
&ldquo;M&rdquo;, meaning God, is the only Experience you have available
to you. And when I say you&rsquo;re seeing yourself, I&rsquo;m speaking
about the Christ That You Are, the Real One, that&rsquo;s right here,
while you&rsquo;re playing with your own twisted perception of who you
are. And so I&rsquo;m not saying that each of you individually as
separate entities are seeing yourself out there. Your ego is seeing what
the Christ is being infinitely, while it (the ego), seeing it as that
which is not itself, defends itself against everything and tries to
manipulate everything so that it will feel safe while still being
separate from it, and creates a hell of an experience of Heaven.

Now you have the opportunity to understand a little bit better why
we&rsquo;re talking about turning toward the Altar, why we&rsquo;re
talking about going to that Place of Excellence in You where your
privateness and autonomy are meaningless. Because there is where the
Holy Spirit awaits you, your right Mind awaits you, and your opportunity
to experience Reality on Its terms; the new culture as it were that
we&rsquo;ve been talking about; the new measurements, the new values;
the new grasping of how things work and what their function is. But all
it&rsquo;s going to be is you looking at everything from a new paradigm,
if I may put it that way. And what that really means is you looking
through your Christ Mind.

We could say that Reality is going on simultaneously with your dream.
But that still suggests that there are two states and two different
things, when the fact is you are experiencing Reality clearly or
unclearly. And when you are experiencing it unclearly, it&rsquo;s
because you have identified yourself unclearly by saying &ldquo;I am not
that. I am not that. That is different from me and this is the meaning
I&rsquo;m giving it.&rdquo; Whereas the Christ of You looks at
everything and immediately recognizes Itself in It, lets It in so It can
register, let&rsquo;s everything in so It can register as the Love
that&rsquo;s being extended, which elicits the Conscious Experience
that&rsquo;s it the same Love that You Are, that You The Christ Are, and
that you are observing the Love that You Are in expression, in movement,
as everything that you&rsquo;re seeing.

And why are you experiencing it this way? Because it&rsquo;s the only
way to truly experience anything because that&rsquo;s the Way Being Is.
That&rsquo;s What God Is. That&rsquo;s the only experience you truly
have available to you to have. The only thing that makes what I&rsquo;m
saying seem deep or un-understandable is because it is so simple and the
ego has made complexity out of singular simplicity.

I&rsquo;m going to start again.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your creations ARE the logical outcome of His premises. HIS thinking has
established them FOR you. They are therefore there, EXACTLY where they
belong. They belong in your mind as part of your identification with
His, but your state of mind and your recognition of what is IN your mind
depends, at any given moment, on what you believe ABOUT your mind.
Whatever these beliefs may be, they are the premises which will
determine what you accept INTO your mind.
</div>

Well obviously if the premise of the ego is &ldquo;I am not that. That
is not me.&rdquo;, that premise blocks letting that as What It Really Is
into your Conscious Awareness.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is surely clear that you can both accept into your mind what is not
really there, and deny what IS. Neither of these possibilities requires
further elaboration here, but both are clearly indefensible, even if you
elect to defend them.

Yet the function which God Himself gave your minds through His you may
deny, but you cannot prevent.
</div>

It&rsquo;s very important to understand this. You each may have, in your
attempt to be autonomous, independent and self-sufficient, denied God,
which can be called an attack on God, but you haven&rsquo;t succeeded.
You can&rsquo;t do it. It won&rsquo;t work. And so you have not done it,
and therefore you are not guilty. You have not sinned. And therefore you
do not have a period of incarceration in limitation that you must
fulfill before you deserve once again to have your Birthright available
to you. Is that clear, even if other things I have said today are not?

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet the function which God Himself gave your minds through His you may
deny, but you cannot prevent. It is the logical outcome of what you ARE.
</div>

Not what you believe you are, not what you think you are, but What You
ARE.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ability to see a logical outcome depends on the WILLINGNESS to see
it, but its truth has nothing to do with your willingness at all. Truth
is GOD&rsquo;S Will. SHARE His Will, and you share what He knows.
</div>

And I&rsquo;m going to add: And you make it your own.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
DENY His Will as yours, and you are denying His Kingdom AND yours. The
Holy Spirit will direct you only so as to avoid pain. The undoing of
pain must obviously avoid pain. Surely no-one would object to this goal
IF HE RECOGNIZED IT. The problem is not whether what the Holy Spirit
says is true, but whether you want to LISTEN to what He says.
</div>

Every time you say, &ldquo;I&rsquo;m getting older,&rdquo; you&rsquo;re
saying, &ldquo;I&rsquo;m not the Son of God,&rdquo; you&rsquo;re saying,
&ldquo;I&rsquo;m not the Daughter of God.&rdquo; Every time you say,
&ldquo;I&rsquo;m angry,&rdquo; every time you feel pissed off at
something or someone, you are saying, &ldquo;I am not the Son or
Daughter of God.&rdquo; Conversely, because you don&rsquo;t think
you&rsquo;re the Son or Daughter of God, you feel justified to be angry
and pissed off and retaliatory. And in your lifetime very few people
have been telling you that you are the Son or Daughter of God, so you
are positive that you&rsquo;re just a human being. And you don&rsquo;t
know your Birthright. You don&rsquo;t know What You Really Are and so
feel justified to continue what seems to be an endless pattern of hate,
self-defense, war, attack, the right to be frustrated.

And then you have your good moments where things seem pretty good and
you find in you a capacity to be something other than those things
I&rsquo;ve just listed. You find the capacity to be thoughtful, to want
to do things, to want to be caring, to extend Love. Sometimes you feel
safe enough to let those feelings register in your mind and you do
express kindness. What you don&rsquo;t realize is that because you
don&rsquo;t know Who You Are and you feel justified in all of the
negatives, and you feel a necessity to express the negatives for the
sake of your safety, you end up committing yourself to expressing these
things, and you don&rsquo;t realize that you&rsquo;re doing nothing.
That nothing is being accomplished.

And likewise, when you find justification for being thoughtful, caring,
loving, inclusive, you don&rsquo;t realize that you are making a Gift,
not only to the ones that you are specifically extending it to, you are
making a Gift to the whole Brotherhood and something Real is happening,
something Universal is happening, something Holy is happening. And you
can understand it when I say that something Whollizing is happening. But
it&rsquo;s happening &hellip; the Whollizing is not just happening in
your one-on-one relationship where you&rsquo;ve been willing to extend
Love and to embrace. It is a Gift that is Universal because of What You
Divinely Are, and you are engaging in Creation in that sense. And you
need to know that there are times &hellip; that most of the time you are
engaged in doing nothing, and some of the time you are engaged in doing
something incredible, something far more infinite than you think.

And you need to be told that so that you might be inspired to withdraw
your commitment to hate and defense and frustration and the willingness
to feel bitter about your Brothers and Sisters. And replace that with a
willingness, no matter how idiotic it seems to you to be because of what
you have always believed, to extend Love, to be inclusive, to remember
that you are Holy, to remember that the Ultimate of What You Are, you
are at this instant, and that the only thing that blocks you from the
experience of it is a misperception which is mental.

And miracles can occur. Sudden shifts of perception can occur.
You&rsquo;re either experiencing the Singularity of Being clearly, or
you&rsquo;re experiencing the Singularity of Being in a fragmented way,
but there&rsquo;s only one thing to experience. And there&rsquo;s also
only one thing to experience it, and it&rsquo;s you experiencing it
clearly, or you experiencing it unclearly. Again I&rsquo;m trying to
illuminate the meaning of the word &ldquo;Singularity,&rdquo; because
the more clearly you can get it, the less complicated you will think it
will be to wake up. And the less you will think you have to grow equal
to something that&rsquo;s far greater than you are that will constitute
an almost insurmountable thing to overcome. It&rsquo;s not true.

This section has been called, &ldquo;The Extension of the
Kingdom.&rdquo; The Extension of the Kingdom is the Movement that
occurs, without any control being used, as a result of the Conscious
Experience of the fundamental premise &ldquo;I AM,&rdquo; the
fundamental Conscious Experience of &ldquo;I AM.&rdquo; God, the Great I
AM, does not say, &ldquo;I am a butterfly,&rdquo; and suddenly a
butterfly appears. And God does not say, &ldquo;I am a locomotive
engine,&rdquo; and a locomotive engine appears. Mind be&rsquo;s What It
Is&mdash;Awareness&mdash;and Awareness is the Experience of &ldquo;I
AM.&rdquo; And that Awareness is a Movement. And that Movement is
experienceable. And God looks at the Movement, you might say, after the
fact of the Movement and says, &ldquo;Wow! That&rsquo;s Me.&rdquo; He
lets What He&rsquo;s Being tell Him What He Is. While the ego takes what
is recognizable and says, &ldquo;That&rsquo;s not me, but I&rsquo;ll
tell you what it is.&rdquo;

And these last few words I&rsquo;ve just said are the simplest way in
which to define the meaning of the word &ldquo;Being,&rdquo;
&ldquo;Existence.&rdquo; And I&rsquo;m going to leave you with that for
today. Except I need to say one more thing. Oh yes, you will get it.
Okay.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I was just wondering whether I was the only one feeling like a dunce
today. Everybody else kind of &hellip; I got a lot of it but there were
some blank spots. And when I have blank spots in my learning then I seem
to become preoccupied with utter frustration at where those spots I
missed, why I can&rsquo;t, you know, get with it because we keep moving
on. So it reminds me of my childhood, school days.[^2]
</div>

So?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So, I can&rsquo;t even remember where those blanks spots were except
&hellip; I seem, you know, we &hellip; the following week after each
meeting we have experiences that seem to try to illuminate or elucidate
these premises, but I just keep feeling like I&rsquo;m having a learning
failure, week after week. [laughing] I&rsquo;m being honest. There are a
few things I get. And I&rsquo;m afraid I&rsquo;m going to have another
one of those weeks where I&rsquo;m constantly given a puzzle.
</div>

Well, first of all, let me tell you, this is a very long book, and what
you don&rsquo;t get today, you will have the opportunity to get again.
And there&rsquo;s no final exam. I want you to go ahead and take
whatever amount of time it takes for you to…

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Well there may not be a final exam but there sure is instant karma, and
that&rsquo;s what keeps baffling me. I feel like I&rsquo;m just missing
something. And I ask my Guide what is this missing ingredient that I
cannot recognize in my week that I can say, &ldquo;Wow! That&rsquo;s
just like me.&rdquo; I keep having experiences where I have to say,
&ldquo;No. That&rsquo;s not like me.&rdquo;
</div>

Indeed. That&rsquo;s a sign of progress. When you see your own (or
another&rsquo;s) ego premises governing, you do indeed have to be able
to say, &ldquo;No. That is not me.&rdquo; And you have to be able to
say, &ldquo;No. That is not them.&rdquo; Because if you don&rsquo;t
arrive at a place where you are able to distinguish between What Is True
and what is not true about you or another, you&rsquo;re in no position
to be an agent for change. You&rsquo;re in no position to facilitate
correction. You&rsquo;re in no position to promote improvement.

Now you think that because you&rsquo;re on your spiritual path you are
supposed to less and less often look at your Brother and say,
&ldquo;There&rsquo;s something wrong there,&rdquo; as though saying
quote &ldquo;There&rsquo;s something wrong there,&rdquo; unquote is
creating a problem there. Do you think that I would be of any help
whatsoever if I were not able to distinguish between what is not true
about you and What Is True about you, or what you are believing that
isn&rsquo;t true that&rsquo;s fouling you up and What The Truth Is about
you that resolves that dilemma? I must be able to see the difference
between the tares and the wheat. And you must learn to make the
distinction between the tares and the wheat so that you don&rsquo;t
gather it all into the storehouse thinking it&rsquo;s all wheat when
it&rsquo;s not, and where the tares will spoil the harvest.

You know what? If you&rsquo;re only getting two or three things a week
that are gelling, thank your lucky stars and be grateful. And
don&rsquo;t set a task for yourself that you&rsquo;re supposed to be
doing better. For any of you to be seeing Truth more clearly in any
respect, no matter how miniscule it is, it&rsquo;s the leaven that
leavens the whole lump. It has an effect that is far reaching because it
constitutes a Gift you are giving that is Real.

Now I know the weeks between these Gatherings are difficult and I know
that what I&rsquo;m telling you [sigh] is causing unsettling to occur
within you. But what&rsquo;s become unsettled are the conceptual
structures that have been keeping you bound. They are being weakened.
And at the same time that they&rsquo;re being weakened, your capacity to
know What Is True is increasing.

I know some of you feel like the further along we go, the less loving
you seem to be able to be. Not because you&rsquo;re not feeling loving,
but because you feel called upon to not join in the ego&rsquo;s
invitation to mutually agree upon the truth of a lie. And you&rsquo;re
presented with that practically all the time. So now it seems as though
all the time you&rsquo;re not able to be sweet and you&rsquo;re not
being able to be supportive because you&rsquo;re having to say,
&ldquo;No! I won&rsquo;t join you here. But here&rsquo;s where I
will.&rdquo; And then you hear, &ldquo;But that&rsquo;s not what I asked
of you. I want you to join me here.&rdquo; And you have to say
&ldquo;No. I can&rsquo;t. I won&rsquo;t agree with you. I won&rsquo;t
behave in a way that makes you &hellip; that allows you to be
comfortable when you can&rsquo;t be comfortable because what
you&rsquo;re doing doesn&rsquo;t fit with the Way Things Work.&rdquo;

You are not the only one confronted with this. Paul feels less fortunate
than he thinks I am because I can say, &ldquo;I won&rsquo;t join you in
your illusion,&rdquo; and then you can&rsquo;t find me to disagree.
[audience laughter] But they &hellip; you can find Paul. And it came out
of his mouth. [more audience laughter]

But you know what? If I were in the room with you appearing to you the
way Paul is appearing to you, I would still say &ldquo;No! I will not
join you. What you are doing is not an expression of intelligence. What
you are doing, as I sometimes say, is stupid. You need to stop doing
it.&rdquo; I would be as direct with you quote &ldquo;in person&rdquo;
as I am right now. And I would be being the Christ. And you are being
the Christ when you do not swerve from the Consciousness of Truth that
will relieve suffering, even though the one confronting you says that
being UNconscious of the Truth is what will preserve my comfort and stop
the suffering. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m only suffering because you&rsquo;re
confronting me with the Truth.&rdquo;

Well, if you&rsquo;re like me, you have no problem saying to them,
&ldquo;That&rsquo;s true. You are suffering because I&rsquo;m presenting
the Truth and you want to operate in a Truth-less arena. In other words,
an arena in which lies are accepted as useful, meaningful, valuable, and
not destructive, not undermining of all that is worthwhile. Do you see?
That&rsquo;s what you&rsquo;re asking for? Do you see the
destructiveness of it? Do you see the un-profitability of it? Do you see
that it does not serve to do anything other than keep you absolutely in
an experience of suffering?&rdquo; I say, &ldquo;No! No! No!&rdquo;
[slight pause] &ldquo;No! No! No! It&rsquo;s the Truth. It&rsquo;s what
you&rsquo;re trying to get me to see that is disturbing my peace.
It&rsquo;s not what I believe that&rsquo;s disturbing my peace.
It&rsquo;s the fact that you won&rsquo;t shut up and leave me at peace
in the way I see things.&rdquo;

You have to be willing to be the Christ and continue to not join when
the ego seeks agreement, wanting you to believe that a lie is true. And
you have to recognize that it is a sign of your progress that
you&rsquo;re no longer able to be sucked in, and that you&rsquo;re no
longer willing to join in the mutual-agreements that don&rsquo;t upset
the status quo and insure that healing won&rsquo;t happen.

Okay. Is there&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I was just going to say that I find that as we persist every week, that
as my beliefs get undone and the way that I be feels like it gets
undone, Sue, I don&rsquo;t feel like it&rsquo;s the same thing that
would measure whether I&rsquo;m getting the book is getting undone too.
[laughing] So it just sort of feels like it&rsquo;s unraveling a lot of
ways that I&rsquo;ve measured whether I&rsquo;m getting something or
whether I&rsquo;m a success at something or &hellip; Do you know what I
mean? &lsquo;Cause like the thought structures that I operated within to
measure that, feel like they&rsquo;re fading as well. So I just wanted
to add that.

Raj, from what you have been saying today I&rsquo;m getting the feeling
that we have a two-fold function. And that is to become more clear of
the vision of Who We Are and at the same time we&rsquo;re dismantling,
we&rsquo;re dismantlers, of the structures that the ego has put into
place.
</div>

No. You&rsquo;re undoers of misperceptions that you, not the ego, that
you have put into place and then chosen to believe.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay.
</div>

Yes?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yeah. And the way we&rsquo;re &hellip; and how we do this is critical.
Umm &hellip;
</div>

Well, the only thing that is critical is that you actually do it. Umm
&hellip; If you have gone into a forest alone that you&rsquo;re not
familiar with and you have marked with a rope, trees along the way so
you could retrace your steps and get out of the forest, the only thing
that&rsquo;s necessary to get out of the forest is, well, we&rsquo;re
going to say in terms of awakening and undoing false steps that you took
away from Home, the only way you can truly retrace your steps and undo
the steps that you&rsquo;ve taken is to come back to each tree and take
the rope off and carry it with you out of the forest.

Many of you &hellip; many of you have marked well by your decisions your
trek into ego structures. And many of you say I want to wake up and I
want to undo these, and so you start back out of the forest, but you
leave the ropes there so that you have a backup, so that you have a
safety net, you might say, so you can get back to the part of the forest
where you had managed to establish a certain degree of comfort. But as
you come Home, you have to undo the marker. You have to undo the
decision. You have to undo the definition you gave, and, for lack of
better words, dissolve it. You have to take the marker with you so that
the way back is no longer marked.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
When you can&rsquo;t find your way, it&rsquo;s over.
</div>

Exactly. Otherwise you&rsquo;re playing with the idea of waking up.
&ldquo;Oh, I&rsquo;m on my way to the Pearly Gates. I&rsquo;m on my way
to the Gateway to the Kingdom of Heaven. But I know how to get back
where I was if it gets to be too much for me.&rdquo; You see?
That&rsquo;s what I was talking about yesterday when you dive into the
pool without a backup so that you swim for your life. So that you make
commitment to being where you are and coping with the experience of
being from there, because then you bring yourself fully to the moment
you&rsquo;re in and fully to the capacity to experience in what way the
water does support you that is entirely different from the way the solid
land supported you that you&rsquo;re familiar with.

So it isn&rsquo;t how you do it. It isn&rsquo;t how you come out.
It&rsquo;s not how you undo it. It is that you actually undo it, that
you untie the ribbon or the rope from the tree and carry it with you so
that there is no marker to lead you back, because you have committed
yourself to abandoning the old paradigm, abandoning the old values,
abandoning the old attractions, abandoning the ways that you had sought
for fulfillment that weren&rsquo;t fulfilling.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
But at the same time I want not to be angry with those who are still
involved. I mean this is where compassion now, because I remember you
saying not putting the tips on the arrows when they come&hellip;
</div>

Indeed.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
&hellip; when you disagree&hellip;
</div>

Indeed.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
&hellip; when you take your stand and you say absolutely no more. And
then you get the argument feeding back. And this is where a lot of us
have got tripped up. We get caught up into the drama again, because we
don&rsquo;t know, or we haven&rsquo;t learned, or we haven&rsquo;t made
the choice, or we haven&rsquo;t &hellip; whatever we haven&rsquo;t done
to put the shield up that keeps us from putting the tips on.
</div>

Look, but you see, when I look at you or I look at anyone else here, and
I recognize when you&rsquo;re doing something unintelligent, I recognize
that, but I don&rsquo;t get upset about.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Right.
</div>

I recognize it and I don&rsquo;t ignore it, but I don&rsquo;t get angry
about it and I also don&rsquo;t leave it alone. I speak appropriately in
the process of facilitating correction, because correction still needs
to occur whether I&rsquo;m upset by your ignorance or not. You see what
I&rsquo;m saying?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Right. And you can even take a very harsh &hellip; I may be sounding
harsh but you don&rsquo;t feel harsh inside. In other words, whatever
the situation calls for in the manner that correction is to be
facilitated, which you don&rsquo;t know except the Holy Spirit guides.
</div>

You&rsquo;re moving into a &ldquo;fringy&rdquo; area here, because it
has nothing to do with behavior. It has nothing &hellip; I have no
intent to behave in a Christlike way, or to behave in a firm way, or to
behave in a harsh way, or to be careful I don&rsquo;t behave in a harsh
way. It has nothing to do with how it appears. It has nothing to do with
behavior.

It all has to do with the simplicity of the absoluteness of Truth and
that what is not true is not true. And whatever it takes to convey that
what is not true isn&rsquo;t true so that its invalidity can be clear
enough to register with the one I&rsquo;m speaking to, I will do. But
it&rsquo;s all relative to the Truth and its illumination, and has
nothing to do with a &ldquo;me&rdquo; being an agent for change, or a
&ldquo;me&rdquo; handling myself in this way or that way. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Thank you for clarifying that because it gets confusing on how
it&rsquo;s supposed to look at some times.
</div>

Well, but I&rsquo;ve never ever talked about that it&rsquo;s supposed to
look like something.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
No. I understand, but not all of us are there at &hellip; have gotten
that yet.
</div>

Now why are you asking this? What does this have to do with making
one&rsquo;s way back Home? [pause] I&rsquo;m going to put it bluntly.
Did you ask this question for everyone else&rsquo;s benefit, or does it
have something to do with you? Because if you asked it for everyone
else&rsquo;s benefit, you&rsquo;re getting into territory that is
irrelevant to your waking up and is none of your business. And I&rsquo;m
not just saying this to you.

You started out your question initially by referring to what it is quote
&ldquo;our function to do&rdquo; unquote. I do want to pick up on those
words, because if you&rsquo;re talking about a function other than being
the unobstructed embodiment of God&rsquo;s Love moving into expression,
if you&rsquo;re talking about any other function than that, you have
also gotten into a fringy fuzziness that is not only dangerous,
it&rsquo;s really meaningless. If you&rsquo;re going to talk about your
function like as a Teacher of God, or our function with our Brothers,
you have moved out of grounded connection with what Function means and
the fact that your attention needs to be on the steps you&rsquo;re
taking back in the undoing of what caused you to be ignorant of the
Truth. I mention this because it ties in with your subsequent comments
about how it appears to others.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I meant it as being appropriate. I mean that it all evolves around that.
</div>

Appropriate in what context?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Appropriate in the way we stand up for what we see as true and how we
deal with those who don&rsquo;t agree with us. Overreacting.
</div>

If emotion doesn&rsquo;t enter into it, if reaction, in other words,
does not enter into it, and you are paying attention to What The Truth
Truly Is regarding the circumstance, you will end up conveying What The
Truth Is, because you will be experiencing it clearly, and there
won&rsquo;t be a &ldquo;you&rdquo; expressing the Truth. You won&rsquo;t
matter. The other won&rsquo;t matter. Because it&rsquo;s the Awareness
of the Truth that is the solution to the problem that you care about.

How offensive have you experienced me to be?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
No.
</div>

But I don&rsquo;t mince words. I&rsquo;m straight. I call it for what it
is. Why isn&rsquo;t it offensive? Because the focus is the Truth and the
fact that the Truth shall set you free. The Truth is freeing. It&rsquo;s
what isn&rsquo;t the Truth that&rsquo;s binding.

To whatever degree you have yourself on your mind in the process of
being conscious of the Truth and extending it, your attention is not on
the Truth and you are liable to have reaction. Not because the Truth
draws reaction, but because the self that has itself on its mind is the
ego and it has an investment. And its investment is self-defense. And
its best means of self-defense is to express superiority because
superiority puts people in their place. Superiority is frightening.
Superiority can be overwhelming.

So, if you have a self on your mind, I&rsquo;ll put it this way, if Paul
had himself on his mind right now, what you would hear would be entirely
different. If you have a self on your mind, then indeed you need to
worry about how you&rsquo;re going to do it, because this self that you
have on your mind is going to see to it that there&rsquo;s an element in
the picture, an element in the extension of Truth, that will draw
attention away from the Truth to the one extending it and cause flak and
cause disturbance. So be careful how much you have yourself on your mind
in considering any of this that we&rsquo;re talking about, because it
will elicit reaction when it&rsquo;s at play. And what we&rsquo;re
talking about has nothing to do with self-consciousness &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Thank you.
</div>

&hellip; with a small &ldquo;s&rdquo;.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Raj, I thought it was very simply and sweetly put about how you said
that God is being and He sees Himself being and recognizes Himself in
that.

How do we fit in as Creations of God? In other words, do we have the
distinct ability or does all His Creations have the ability to be able
to see ourselves as part of God and recognize that? Is that where our
place in the scheme of things is as Function? &lsquo;Cause we&rsquo;re
not God and we&rsquo;re not an Effect of God, so it&rsquo;s like we have
the benefit of the full spectrum like he does.
</div>

That is a fairly decent way of putting it. Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Well, thank you.
</div>

Your Function is to have the same recognition, the same experience of
recognition that God is having. Now what does that mean? That you say,
&ldquo;Ah, I recognize myself. I recognize myself as a Creation of God
in All that God Is Being.&rdquo; No. You, like God, recognize God in
everything. You are here to be the acknowledgment of God.

[^1]: T7.9 The Extension of the Kingdom
[^2]: Students commenting or asking a question

