---
title: Jul 25, 2004
ref: "T7.10 The Confusion of Strength and Weakness"
alink: "/acim/text/07/chap0710/"
---

Good afternoon. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*The Confusion of Strength and Weakness* [^1]
</div>

It&rsquo;s interesting that the times when you feel like you&rsquo;re
exerting the most strength is when you are bringing the full force of
your will into play in order to accomplish something. And one of the
things that you&rsquo;ve all been learning as we&rsquo;ve been going
through the Course, and something that all of you learn who actually
embark upon a spiritual quest, if I may put it that way, and you really
pay attention to essential factors of yourself at the deepest levels of
your honesty, you find that the great exertion of will that you try to
express is actually when you&rsquo;re weakest, because it&rsquo;s when
you&rsquo;re coming from a completely independent autonomous place where
you experience no connection with Divinity, no connection with
everything, no connection with God.

And ultimately what sets many people on quote &ldquo;the path&rdquo;
unquote is the disarming and disillusioning discovery that all of the
exertion of will that you brought to bear in your life has not led you
to peace and security that has stability to it. And you say,
&ldquo;There must be something more. I am missing something here.&rdquo;
When you arrive at this point of, for lack of better words, failure as
an ego successfully exerting will [small laugh] and you accept it, you
don&rsquo;t fight it any more. You fully acknowledge that the attempt
has been a total failure. You give up. And we&rsquo;ve talked about this
before. If you genuinely acknowledge the fact that it&rsquo;s been a
failure, you give up. But you can&rsquo;t give up for very long without
saying &ldquo;Help!&rdquo; in one way or another and reach outside of
your best judgments, your best theories, and your best sense of what
your will is. And that&rsquo;s when connection can occur. And
that&rsquo;s when breakthrough does occur. And then you find yourself
companioned with by me, or the Holy Spirit, or the Father, or your own
Guide.

And you find that in accepting the help that you receive, things begin
to turn around. Your life literally takes a new direction. You&rsquo;re
still in the same world. You&rsquo;re still with other people. But
you&rsquo;re not doing it as a tiny, independent, autonomous entity. And
as you find things beginning to stabilize and improve, you find, for
lack of better words, that there is strength in numbers. Not just the
number &ldquo;one,&rdquo; meaning your best sense of yourself, but in
companioning with One Who Is Awake, One who loves you, One who knows
What Is Of Value and what is not, and whose Purpose it is to help you
discover What Is Of Value and what is not, so that you can set it aside,
set aside what is not of value voluntarily.

So that you find strength to be what manifests in your life when
you&rsquo;ve abandoned willfulness, an independent will that you call
&ldquo;yours.&rdquo; And so strength and weakness reverse themselves.
And what you thought constituted weakness, you now find is your
strength. And what you thought was your strength, you now find is your
weakness. And so you don&rsquo;t energize what was weakness. You
honestly look at your experience and see what happened when you were
exercising personal will, personal strength, and you see, in effect,
that you were accomplishing nothing, even though, for a while, it
appeared that you were.

It&rsquo;s this kind of clarity that allows you to set aside what was a
false estimate of strength, because you can see that it is valueless.
Mind you, one does not have to be at the end of his rope in order to do
this. But it&rsquo;s very often that that is when it occurs. You all can
begin to express curiosity to know What Is Of Value and what isn&rsquo;t
from the Father&rsquo;s Point Of View before you get to the bottom of
the barrel.

So let&rsquo;s go into the book.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You no more recognize what is painful than you know what is joyful, and
are, in fact, very apt to confuse the two. The Holy Spirit&rsquo;s main
function is to teach you TO TELL THEM APART. However strange it may seem
that this is necessary, it obviously IS. The reason is equally obvious.
What is joyful to you IS painful to the ego&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in other words, what is joyful to the divine one that you Are
is painful to the ego &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and as long as you are in doubt about what YOU are, you will be
confused about joy and pain. This confusion is the cause of the whole
idea of sacrifice.
</div>

Well, think about that. Why would anyone think that sacrifice would be
valuable? Well, because, for example, you&rsquo;ve been taught that the
pleasure of the senses is purely physical and of a base, animalistic
nature. Now where on earth did that idea come from? Well, it came from
the idea of evolution. After all, you&rsquo;re at the top of the food
chain. You&rsquo;re the most advanced of all of the creatures on the
planet that evolved from what? A big bang and an evolution of physical
and chemical processes. So, you&rsquo;re just a higher form of a really
base life process, life existence. And so at the bottom line your sole
reason for being alive is that you have been a successful survivor; an
animal that has succeeded in surviving long enough to lift itself up by
its own bootstraps and develop a conscience, et cetera.

So now, now that you&rsquo;ve developed a conscience, and you&rsquo;ve
been able to imagine and establish values, you&rsquo;ve been able to
think in terms of least value and greatest value. And greatest value has
taken the form of an idea of God and an idea of existence beyond, or
further in advance of, this highly developed stage of animal evolution
that you&rsquo;ve arrived at.

And now comes the coup de grace. Now the idea is that if you deny What
You Are, you will get rewards in Heaven. If you deny the physical
impulses, you will be rewarded in Heaven. If you, especially for very
serious religious reasons, take a vow of poverty, this will advance you
greatly. If you will take a vow of lack of some sort, a vow of silence,
if you will not go for the gusto, if you will not go for the success in
the world&rsquo;s eyes, you will get rewards in Heaven. Now you have
used your minds to arrive at a point where sacrifice is a holy thing to
engage in, Self-denial is a holy thing to engage in. The belittling of
your present nature is a healthy thing to do because you&rsquo;re not
preoccupied with worldly things. But you see, it isn&rsquo;t your body,
it isn&rsquo;t your base self, it&rsquo;s not the world, that needs to
be denied. It&rsquo;s the interpretation of the world and the
interpretation of your self that has to be invalidated.

Now, in broad sweeping terms, you could invalidate it by saying,
&ldquo;The world doesn&rsquo;t exist.&rdquo; But that&rsquo;s not the
answer. The answer is, &ldquo;The way I&rsquo;m seeing the world, the
way I&rsquo;m interpreting my body, the definitions I have created about
myself, are not real. But I am Real and the world is Real. There is
Something going on that is being misinterpreted by me, being
misunderstood by me.&rdquo;

And so then, the way to get past the way you&rsquo;re interpreting it,
the way you&rsquo;re defining it, is to have someone like me tell you
the only thing confronting you is the Kingdom of Heaven. The only thing
you&rsquo;re experiencing right now is the Only Thing going
on&mdash;Reality, with a capital &ldquo;R,&rdquo; God being All, the
Kingdom of Heaven. And why do I keep saying that? So that you might be
further inspired to look at everything, to look at yourself, to look at
your body and your neighbor and your friend, with eyes of
innocent&mdash;innocent of false judgments, innocent of false
interpretations, innocent of definitions you have applied to everything.
And you look at it with curiosity.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Obey the Holy Spirit and you will be giving up the ego.
</div>

Well, there is that hard word again, &ldquo;Obey.&rdquo; &ldquo;Oh!
Obedience. There&rsquo;s where you let go of autonomy. There&rsquo;s
where you let go of independence. These are good things,&rdquo; you say.
&ldquo;If I give up my autonomy, if I become obedient to somebody else,
that&rsquo;s like going back to being a child. And I have become
emancipated. I&rsquo;m 21 or older. And I am now in the place in life
where it&rsquo;s my right to assert myself on my own and enjoy the
freedom in doing so.&rdquo; [said in a funny voice] Well, are you having
a good time? [regular voice] So you&rsquo;re confused.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Obey the Holy Spirit &hellip;
</div>

You know what? The idea of obedience means fitting in; fitting in to
Something. You want to be the one piece of the puzzle that&rsquo;s
missing from the puzzle; the one that jumped out of the box and said,
&ldquo;Nobody&rsquo;s going to find me and put me in that tiny little
spot!&rdquo; Well, like you, who has a puzzle with one piece missing and
is frustrated, you might say that the Whole Brotherhood is looking for
you because you&rsquo;re missing from your spot. And the joy that would
be experienced when you were there, if you were there, is not present
yet because you&rsquo;re underneath the corner of the sofa. And they
look forward to the joy, we all look forward to the joy, of your letting
yourself fit in.

And you&rsquo;re missing out on the joy of being part of the Whole. And
you&rsquo;re missing out on the joy of finding that once you let
yourself be part of the Whole and fit in, all of what constitutes the
Wholeness of Creation becomes your Consciousness Experience of Being,
and you cease to be a tiny part of It, fitting in with It. But this
Experience of Wholeness, this Experience of Being inseparable from the
Mind of God, as God, including You, moves in the Act of Creation. This
is your strength. This is your bliss. This is your Fulfillment of
Purpose.

But because you&rsquo;re confused, you think that it will be a real and
unjustified sacrifice to give up this imagined little bit of autonomy
that think you have achieved. Because as long as you think you have
achieved it and are committed to it, you will never feel your Wholeness
and you will never feel your strength. And by that I mean your
invulnerability. I mean, really, how invulnerable are you underneath the
corner of the couch where the cat might get you, or the dog might chew
you up? You see what I mean? Yes, you see what I mean.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Obey the Holy Spirit and you will be giving up the ego.
</div>

Now that&rsquo;s a doom-and-gloom statement for the ego. But it&rsquo;s
a very clear statement about to how to release yourself from the ego.
You say, &ldquo;Oh, I want to give up my ego.&rdquo; Or you would say,
&ldquo;Sure I want to give up my ego.&rdquo; Okay.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Obey the Holy Spirit and you will be giving up the ego.
</div>

&ldquo;Oh, well, that&rsquo;s a different matter. &lsquo;Obey the Holy
Spirit.&rsquo; Can&rsquo;t I just give up my ego and still have fun
being independent?&rdquo; That&rsquo;s called confusion. That really is
called confusion. No, you can&rsquo;t.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Obey the Holy Spirit &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that means link up. That means join with. That means desire to
know of the Holy Spirit. It means listening for the Holy Spirit. And
since we have found out that the Holy Spirit is nothing more than your
right Mind, you don&rsquo;t have to be quite so afraid of joining with
the Holy Spirit, because intellectually you can grasp the fact that
doing so will be an active integration of you to you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Obey the Holy Spirit and you will be giving up the ego. But you will be
sacrificing NOTHING. On the contrary, you will be gaining EVERYTHING. If
you believed this, there would BE no conflict.
</div>

Is there conflict? Then you don&rsquo;t believe it, yet. Explore
believing it. Trek into the new territory. Stop paying lip service only
to the idea that you want to wake up or that you want to give up your
ego.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you believed this, there would be no conflict.

That is why you need to DEMONSTRATE the obvious to yourself. It is NOT
obvious to you. You believe that doing the OPPOSITE of God&rsquo;s Will
can be better for you. You also believe that it is possible to DO the
opposite of God&rsquo;s WILL. Therefore, you believe that an impossible
choice is open to you, and one which is both very fearful AND very
desirable.
</div>

Listen &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet God wills. He does NOT wish. YOUR will is as powerful as His
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; why?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; because it IS His.
</div>

You are the Son/Daughter of God. Your Inheritance is from your
Father/Mother. His Will is yours. The only thing is, in the act of
extending it to you, God didn&rsquo;t break off a little bit of His Will
and deposit it in you. You are the Extension of God. You are the
Presence of God Embodied. You are God Infinitely Individualized. All of
the Brotherhood is God Infinitely Individualized, without ever being
fragmented or broken up into parts.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego&rsquo;s wishes do not mean anything, because the ego wishes for
the impossible. You can WISH for the impossible, but you can WILL only
with God. This is the ego&rsquo;s weakness, and YOUR strength.
</div>

&ldquo;God! You mean I have to listen to God all the time? You mean I
have to be connected with God all the time? What? You want me to become
a nun? You want me to live in a monastery and be connected with God all
the time and be abnormal?&rdquo; No. I want you to cook dinner with God.
I want you to sleep with God. I want you to make love with God. I want
you to vacuum with God. I want you to deal with your Brother with God. I
want you to look at your Brother with God. I want you to do all the
things you&rsquo;re doing from the Place of Excellence in each of you,
instead of from a place of confusion and ignorance that causes you to be
miserable when it&rsquo;s your Birthright to be experiencing Joy.

I want you to start looking at the trees with God, or your fingernails
with God. I want you to look with God so that you might see God in
everything you observe. I want you to walk on water with God. I want you
to swim to the depths of the ocean without scuba gear, or submarines,
with God. I want you to do things with God that you haven&rsquo;t
dreamed of doing, but which when you do them, will inspire your Brothers
and Sisters to say, &ldquo;Wait a minute. If they&rsquo;re doing the
impossible,&rdquo;&mdash;and I promise you they are doing the
impossible&mdash;&ldquo;then what they&rsquo;re doing must be possible,
and my belief that they&rsquo;re impossible must be wrong.&rdquo; And
the moment they get it that the way they have been believing and
defining things has been wrong, [snap of the fingers] they&rsquo;re
immediately freed to explore walking on the water, or whatever it might
be that they had previously determined to be impossible.

You&rsquo;re all bound entirely and absolutely by determinations you
have made in your mind. It&rsquo;s my task to break those
determinations, to inspire you to let go of the determination, the
commitment, you bring to the meanings you&rsquo;ve developed.

Now, listen &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit always sides with you, and with your strength. As long
as you avoid His guidance in any way, you WANT to be weak. Yet weakness
IS frightening.
</div>

Well, I&rsquo;m going to add that it&rsquo;s not only frightening,
it&rsquo;s exhilarating! And you get a rush from it, and you get
addicted to the rush of the exhilaration of fear. And then you translate
that into courage to stand in the face of what you fear and not feel
overwhelmed by it, not be incapacitated by it, and to survive with a
reasonable amount of peace without ever getting rid of it&mdash;the
fear.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet weakness is frightening. What else, then, can this decision mean
except that you WANT to be fearful?
</div>

Exactly. You&rsquo;re getting a rush from it, and you like the rush, and
you choose for it.

&ldquo;Oh. You mean all I have to do is meditate?&rdquo;

 &ldquo;Yeah.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Uh, well, uh, what do I get from it? You know, I get a rush from
fear. What am I going to get from the peace of meditation?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Mm. Well, let&rsquo;s see here. You&rsquo;re going to have the
opportunity to see the Face of God.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Oh, my God! That&rsquo;s the thing I&rsquo;m most afraid of!
That&rsquo;s the last thing I want. You say I&rsquo;m not going to get a
hit from peace?&rdquo;

&ldquo;That&rsquo;s right. But you know what? When you choose for that
Peace, and you let yourself remain in it for any length of time,
you&rsquo;re going to find two things emerging. You&rsquo;re going to
find Joy welling up from a Source that is inexplicable and
unidentifiable, except that it will be welling up from the depths of
your conscious experience that you&rsquo;re having and Love that you
cannot help but let overflow out onto everything you see and everyone
you know and don&rsquo;t know. And as you do it, you will feel
loved.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Yeah, yeah, yeah. But, but, you know, will it give me a rev? Mm.
Will it give me a rev?&rdquo;

&ldquo;No. No. It won&rsquo;t.&rdquo;

[sigh] &ldquo;I&rsquo;m sorry then I&rsquo;m not interested because you
know what? I&rsquo;ve decided that if the Kingdom of Heaven is really
the Kingdom of Heaven, it&rsquo;s going to be exhilarating. It&rsquo;s
going to be exciting. It&rsquo;s going to always have a nervous edge to
it, except that no harm will ever come from it. That&rsquo;s what the
Kingdom of Heaven has to be. I&rsquo;m going to hold out for
that.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Well, I&rsquo;m sorry. But that isn&rsquo;t what the Kingdom of
Heaven is. And that&rsquo;s not what it&rsquo;s your Birthright to
experience. And as long as you hold out for it, you&rsquo;re still going
to be accomplishing absolutely nothing. And you&rsquo;re still going to
be constantly confronted with fear. In fact, your choice for the hit you
get from fear actually creates the experience of fear and increases it,
thus increasing the hit, but also increasing the pain and the suffering.
If you choose for that, choose for that, but it&rsquo;s not the answer
to your problem.&rdquo;

Each of you, in one way or another, has at one time or another said,
&ldquo;You know, if I got up today and everything happened perfectly,
and every situation was a win-win situation, and there were utter
harmony manifest throughout the day, I agree that it would be a profound
experience. But without the thrill, I&rsquo;m not going to choose for
it. If the Kingdom of Heaven is nothing but bliss, then that means an
ongoing experience of monotony.&rdquo; And you jokingly say,
&ldquo;Well, if being in the Kingdom of Heaven is sitting on clouds
playing harps all day, I&rsquo;ll choose for what I have.&rdquo; And
that&rsquo;s a way you jokingly say you don&rsquo;t want Reality.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit always sides with you, and with your strength. As long
as you avoid His guidance in any way, you WANT to be weak. Yet weakness
IS frightening. What else, then, can this decision mean except that you
WANT to be fearful?
</div>

You know what? We&rsquo;d get a large attendance in the Kingdom of
Heaven if we would open up a new ride called &ldquo;Hellhole, the
scariest ride in the universe.&rdquo; [scattered few laughs from
audience] I&rsquo;m not even going to suggest that you&rsquo;re already
on that ride. [more audience laughs] Yes, the billboards would say,
&ldquo;The only place where you can be scared to death without
dying.&rdquo; [more audience laughter] I promise that if you thought
that giving up your ego would let you have that ride, you would do
everything you could to give up your ego. [more audience laughter]

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What else, then, can this decision mean except that you want to be
fearful? The Holy Spirit NEVER asks for sacrifice, but the ego ALWAYS
does.
</div>

Well, except [amused laugh] you think that it&rsquo;s giving you
something far more valuable than what you&rsquo;re having to give up.
You think that the ego is saying that it can give you, this little
puzzle piece, a life never dreamed of by other puzzle pieces who never
thought beyond the puzzle that they are a part of. It asks you to
sacrifice the remembrance of Who You Are. It asks you to sacrifice
&hellip; it asks you to sacrifice the awareness that it is nothing more,
the ego is nothing more than you wearing a mask. It asks you to think
that all experiences are happening to you, when all experiences are You
unfolding Infinitely, and you&rsquo;re not subject to It, and therefore,
not vulnerable to It. It asks you to forget your Source, which causes
you to lose your experience of your Identity. It asks you to sacrifice
too much.

But you say that it promises you the satisfaction of overcoming
limitations and proving your superiority to them. And you know what? You
know what hooks you? The fact that you know at some level you
haven&rsquo;t forgotten that you are the Christ and that you are, for
lack of better words, omnipotent, and that you are superior to all
illusion. But you see, the ego asks you to sacrifice the Conscious
Experience of What You Are, your Real Identity, so that you might have
this autonomous, independent experience; this scary ride. And so you
don&rsquo;t have the capacity to actually overcome the illusions, to
actually overcome the things that are fearful, because you have to
remember Who You Are before you can have the experience of superiority
over illusions that causes illusions to disappear.

And it causes you to not realize that you make the illusions disappear,
not by an act of authority, but by an act of acquiescence to the Whole,
by being obedient to the Holy Spirit, by yielding to God. And because it
asks you to sacrifice that, you&rsquo;re attempting something that is
impossible. You are attempting to accomplish what will never be
accomplished. And as long as you may remain committed to the attempt,
you will be stuck. And you are. Except that you are becoming
inquisitive. Your eyelids are beginning to flutter a little bit. And you
are asking to know the Truth. And you are willing to conceive that the
Truth is outside the box of limitation that you&rsquo;ve been operating
in. And so Movement of Awakening is occurring.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit never asks for sacrifice, but the ego ALWAYS does. When
you are confused about this VERY clear distinction in motivation, it can
ONLY be due to projection. Projection of this kind IS a confusion in
motivation, and GIVEN this confusion, trust becomes impossible.
</div>

It&rsquo;s very simple. When you don&rsquo;t know Who You Are, when you
have forgotten Who You Are, when you have decided to commit your mind to
an idea, or a definition, of what you are, instead of What You Really
Are, you&rsquo;re in a state of Self-denial. And, in other words, you
have put on a mask. The presentation of yourself with a mask on is
fundamental dishonesty. And you know it. And you know that as long as
you&rsquo;re doing that, you&rsquo;re not trustworthy. You can&rsquo;t
dare to look at that for very long so you say, &ldquo;The world out
there is untrustworthy. My Brothers and Sisters are untrustworthy, and
I&rsquo;ve got to be defended against them.&rdquo; And now you&rsquo;re
in a state of survival.

You won&rsquo;t begin to see who your Brothers and Sisters are until
you&rsquo;re willing to look at What You Are. And you&rsquo;re learning
that the only way to look at What You Are is turn toward the Place of
Excellence in you, the Altar within, and inquire of the Holy Spirit,
something outside your definition of yourself.

Ask yourself, how motivated are you to reinforce illusion? How motivated
are you to commit to the experience of fear? And how motivated are you
to becoming sane again? How motivated are you to finally, with
conviction and commitment, say and embody the meaning of the words,
&ldquo;I am through with suffering. I am through with an eternal
experience of conflict. I am through believing that the hit I get from
suffering is valuable.&rdquo;

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Projection of this kind is a confusion in motivation, and GIVEN this
confusion, trust becomes impossible.

No-one obeys gladly a guide he does not trust, but this does not mean
that the guide is untrustworthy. In this case, it ALWAYS means that the
FOLLOWER is.
</div>

Mind you, this &ldquo;GUIDE&rdquo; is referring to the Holy Spirit who
never asks for sacrifice. I mean, after all, you&rsquo;ve heard that
there&rsquo;s such a thing as the Holy Spirit.

&ldquo;But,&rdquo; your ego says, &ldquo;For all you know, the Holy
Spirit is pure imagination, something the church made up. Right? So you
don&rsquo;t want to mess around with that. You know, that&rsquo;s
intangible. Your mind? It&rsquo;s real because you&rsquo;re experiencing
it directly, right? You&rsquo;re real. Holy Spirit? Mm. Can&rsquo;t be
sure. Can&rsquo;t be sure. If you turn to the Holy Spirit, and you
believe that you&rsquo;re actually doing it, you&rsquo;ll probably just
be going insane, and they&rsquo;ll lock you up. So don&rsquo;t mess
around with It. I mean, you may connect with one of the dark spirits.
And Heaven only knows &hellip;&rdquo; Oh, it uses the word
&ldquo;Heaven.&rdquo; Yeah, the ego says, &ldquo;Heaven only knows what
will happen to you then. Mm. This whole venture is untrustworthy.
Don&rsquo;t trust it!&rdquo;

This goes on all the time, every day, in one way or another, with each
of you where you are distracted from trusting the good. You&rsquo;re
distracted from voicing the good. You&rsquo;re distracted from embodying
anything that smacks of too much goodness.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
No-one obeys gladly a guide he does not trust, but this does not mean
that the guide is untrustworthy. In this case, it ALWAYS means that the
FOLLOWER is. However, this, too, is merely a matter of his own belief.
Believing that he can betray&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in other words, if you are presenting yourself with a mask, you
are in the act of betraying something. You&rsquo;re betraying the trust
that the person you&rsquo;re speaking with would extend to you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
However, this, too, is merely a matter &hellip;
</div>

(PAUL: I&rsquo;m sorry.)

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
No-one obeys gladly a guide he does not trust, but this does not mean
that the guide is untrustworthy. In this case, it ALWAYS means that the
FOLLOWER is. However, this, too, is merely a matter of his own belief.
Believing that he can betray, he believes that everything can betray
HIM. Yet this is only because he has elected TO FOLLOW FALSE GUIDANCE.
Unable to follow this guidance WITHOUT fear, he associates fear WITH
guidance, and refuses to follow ANY guidance at all. The Holy Spirit is
perfectly trustworthy, as YOU are.
</div>

Key point. You will not be able to see the trustworthiness of anything
else until you&rsquo;re willing to consider the possibility that there
is a Place of Excellence in you. And that Place of Excellence in you is
the Excellence of you. And until you&rsquo;re willing to acknowledge
that and begin to honor it, you will not have the trust necessary to
lean into the Holy Spirit, or to let yourself go into the underlying,
everlasting arms of God and yield.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God Himself trusts you, and therefore your trustworthiness is beyond
question. It will always remain beyond question, however much YOU may
question it.

We said before that you are the Will of God. His Will is not an idle
wish, and your identification with His Will is not optional since it IS
what you are. Sharing His Will with me is not really open to choice,
though it may seem to be.
</div>

In other words, you may not choose to listen to me in the quietness of
your Being. You may not give me the opportunity to share the Truth about
the Father so that you might find that as Brothers we both see things
the same way. As Brother and Sister we both see things the same way. You
may not give yourself the opportunity to share the Father&rsquo;s Will.
But in spite of your ignoring It, we do share the Father&rsquo;s Will.
We do. It&rsquo;s &hellip; the sharing of It is in place. It&rsquo;s
stable. It&rsquo;s eternal. It&rsquo;s just the Way Things Are.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Sharing His Will with me is not really open to choice, though it may
seem to be. The whole separation lies in this fallacy. The only way out
of the fallacy is to decide that you do not have to decide ANYTHING.
</div>

I&rsquo;m going to go back to the beginning of the paragraph.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
We said before that you are the Will of God. His Will is not an idle
wish, and your identification with His Will is not optional since it IS
what you are. Sharing His Will with me is not really open to choice,
though it may seem to be. The whole separation lies in this fallacy.
</div>

Now what is the fallacy? The fallacy is that you seem to have a choice.
You think you have a choice to be the Expression of God, or to be an
independent agent. That is a fallacy. And that fallacy, that belief, is
the one thing that your whole confused experience arises from.
&ldquo;But Father, I&rsquo;d rather see it myself. But, Father,
I&rsquo;d rather do it my way.&rdquo; It was never an option. Therefore,
you have never succeeded at it. But you have imagined that you have
succeeded at it. And you have lived things out through the lens of that
imagination.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The only way out of the fallacy is to decide that you do not have to
decide ANYTHING.
</div>

What does that mean? It means you don&rsquo;t have to make a choice
between this and that. If you neglect to exercise the choice, you
obliterate the possibility of an experience of an illusion. You see
that? If you say, &ldquo;Yes, Father. Yes, God,&rdquo; and you
don&rsquo;t opt for the right to have a second choice, you wake up, or
you never slip into a dream. You&rsquo;ve slipped into a dream, so the
answer is to neglect to make that choice further. And how do you neglect
to make that choice? By saying, &ldquo;Father, show me the Truth.&rdquo;
Or if you don&rsquo;t want to speak to Father, you can say, &ldquo;I,
from the depth of my Being, want to experience the Ultimate Truth here,
now.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The only way out of the fallacy is to decide that you do not have to
decide ANYTHING. Everything has been given you by God&rsquo;s decision.
That IS His Will, and you can NOT undo it. Even the relinquishment of
your false decision-making prerogative, which the ego guards so
jealously, is not accomplished by your wish. It was accomplished FOR you
by the Will of God, Who has not left you comfortless.

[Repeats] It was accomplished FOR you by the Will of God, Who has not
left you comfortless.
</div>

And God accomplished it by being All There Is. So there is no option for
anything else. You see? God accomplished it by not giving you another
choice. God never set up choices for you to decide between. And in the
true sense of Singularity, if He didn&rsquo;t provide you with a choice,
you don&rsquo;t have a choice. And therefore, you never actually made a
choice that caused for you a real illusion. And so you&rsquo;re still in
your Holy Place as the Holy Son or Daughter of God untouched, fully
present right now, right here in the middle of River City, right here in
the middle of the Kingdom of Heaven.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
His Voice &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; God&rsquo;s &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; will teach you how to distinguish between pain and joy, and
WILL lead you out of the confusion which you have made.
</div>

What is His Voice that will teach you how to distinguish? It&rsquo;s the
Holy Spirit. And what is the Holy Spirit? Nothing more than your right
Mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is no confusion in the mind of a Son of God, whose will MUST be
the Will of the Father because the Father&rsquo;s Will IS His Son.
</div>

Even if you don&rsquo;t understand that or grasp it in its fullness,
grasp the fact that it is saying there is only one thing going on. There
is only one thing being done, if you will, and nothing else has been
done. Therefore, waking up is not an undoing of something that has been
done. It&rsquo;s a sudden shift of perception in which what you thought
you did that you didn&rsquo;t do no longer fools you. You see that you
didn&rsquo;t do anything and you didn&rsquo;t exist as a doer in that
sense, that you&rsquo;re more than that and have been all along, even
though you&rsquo;ve committed yourself to being an independent doer so
as to try to have an experience of being an independent authorizer,
which has been a rugged experience because it can&rsquo;t be done. And
you haven&rsquo;t been doing it. And you can&rsquo;t do something that
you can&rsquo;t do, thinking you have done it, without some kind of
alarm going off within you that&rsquo;s your Sanity saying, &ldquo;Stop
this! Stop this! Stop this ridiculous behavior.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Miracles &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; sudden shifts of perception &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; are in ACCORD with the Will of God, Whose Will you do not know,
because you are confused about what YOU will. This means that you are
confused about what you are. If you ARE God&rsquo;s Will and do not
ACCEPT His WILL, you are denying joy. The miracle is therefore a lesson
in WHAT JOY IS. Being a lesson in sharing, it is a lesson in love, which
IS joy.
</div>

Remember I said when you go into the Peace, there are two things that
emerge&mdash;Joy and Love&mdash;and that they, if they are allowed,
inevitably spill over into your experience, blessing everything and
everyone and blessing you at the same time while returning you to the
Conscious Experience of What You Really Are.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Every miracle is thus a lesson in truth, and by offering truth you are
learning the difference between pain and joy.
</div>

By offering Truth. How do you offer Truth? You offer it by declaring it.
You offer it by giving it voice. You offer it by putting it in the air.
Not by quietly, peacefully knowing it without ever expressing it in a
manner that can promote change. You dare &hellip; I invite you to dare
to voice Truth, to give expression to Truth, offer Truth, instead of
silly bullshit social talk that doesn&rsquo;t do anything to upset the
status quo. Dare to offer the Truth and say to someone, &ldquo;You know
what? No matter what you think you are, no matter what you believe about
yourself, I know that you&rsquo;re Divine, and that this cold
you&rsquo;re experiencing, or this headache that you&rsquo;re
experiencing, isn&rsquo;t your Birthright. And so I&rsquo;m putting it
in the air right now between the two of us that I know this isn&rsquo;t
legitimate. And I know it doesn&rsquo;t have any means of prolonging
itself. And I know that it can go away right away. And I invite you to
believe that too.&rdquo; And then leave it.

Don&rsquo;t be afraid to express the Truth, whether it&rsquo;s met with
acceptance or not. Make the Gift. Glorify God by expressing the Truth.
You run into someone who feels worthless, who&rsquo;s really down in the
dumps about herself or himself, convey to them that they are worthwhile.
Spend enough time with them to express the worth that you see in them.
Let your actions deny their worthlessness, so that they might be
inspired to adopt your point of view.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Every miracle is thus a lesson in truth, and by offering truth you are
learning the difference between pain and joy.
</div>

And you&rsquo;re learning that there&rsquo;s not just a difference
between pain and Joy. They are, what I&rsquo;m going to call, unlinked
pairs. Everybody says, &ldquo;Well, if you&rsquo;re gonna have love, you
gotta have [hate]. If you&rsquo;re gonna have joy, you gotta have pain.
How would you know what joy was if you didn&rsquo;t have pain?&rdquo; Is
this not idiotic? But you don&rsquo;t argue with that idea. &ldquo;Oh,
if it wasn&rsquo;t dark, you couldn&rsquo;t see the stars. Gotta be some
darkness in your life so that the light fully means what it is.&rdquo;
So you learn the difference between pain and Joy and the fact that they
cannot coexist. Period. And so you abandon pain.

Well, the next section is called:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*The State of Grace*
</div>

Maybe next Sunday will be more enjoyable. [some slight audience
amusement at the comment] I love you all, and I look forward to being
with you next week.

[^1]: T7.10 The Confusion of Strength and Weakness

