---
title: Aug 8, 2004
ref: "T8 The Journey Back"
alink: "/acim/text/08/chap0800/"
---

Good afternoon. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

This next chapter is called:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*The Journey Back*[^1]
</div>

And I&rsquo;ll be frank with you. We may not get to the beginning of the
chapter because there are some things that need to be addressed first;
sort of as a review.

Imagine, if you will, a young man (young woman) who&rsquo;s grown up in
a rough part of town. Life has been difficult. Life is a struggle for
survival. There is little time for kindness. There&rsquo;s little time
for giving one&rsquo;s attention to anyone else but oneself and what
one&rsquo;s needs are, and how, in a hostile environment, to get those
needs met. One who grows up in an environment like this is not provided
with a language for healing, a language for, I&rsquo;m going to say,
behavior which contributes to the whole and uplifts it, transforms it
positively. And before an individual who has grown up in this
environment can begin to behave in a new way that is contributive, there
needs to be a new language provided. In a dog-eat-dog world, the words
&ldquo;kindness,&rdquo; &ldquo;thoughtfulness,&rdquo;
&ldquo;appreciation,&rdquo; &ldquo;integrity,&rdquo; and &ldquo;mutual
consideration,&rdquo; these words don&rsquo;t show up in the everyday
conversation. And what does show up in the everyday conversation
confirms the status quo.

The Course, and everything I have been sharing with you, gives you a
language of healing.

A language of healing. How many of you in here can think in French? If
you don&rsquo;t know the language, you can&rsquo;t think in French. How
many of you can think in English? Every one of you. Now, it&rsquo;s easy
to understand that if you don&rsquo;t know how to speak French, you
can&rsquo;t think in French. If you don&rsquo;t know how to think in
language of healing, you can&rsquo;t have the evidence of healing.

Now, I have been providing language for healing. But there&rsquo;s not
enough, for lack of better words, thinking in terms of healing going on.
You&rsquo;re still thinking in the old language.

There are two instances that occurred this past week that I would like
to highlight and amplify on. One of them, someone said, &ldquo;Well, if
you&rsquo;re not awake, you shouldn&rsquo;t bang your head against a
wall if you don&rsquo;t want to have a headache. If you&rsquo;re not
awake, you shouldn&rsquo;t do such-and-such if you don&rsquo;t want to
suffer.&rdquo; Now this is language of confirmation for the state of
ignorance that you&rsquo;re all experiencing. In a way it&rsquo;s like
saying, &ldquo;Well, if you&rsquo;re in the human condition, you
can&rsquo;t expect more than such-and-such if you engage in particular
activity.&rdquo; No. This is careless thinking. It&rsquo;s careless
thinking when you know better, when you&rsquo;ve had language of healing
provided.

The current language says, &ldquo;You all exist in the human
condition.&rdquo; Well, that&rsquo;s a lie. You exist in the Kingdom of
Heaven. You are Divine. And anything different from that that is being
perceived is a misperception of What&rsquo;s Going On. I keep saying
you&rsquo;re not in the human condition. I keep saying that you are in
the middle of the Kingdom of Heaven with your eyes all squinched up
saying, &ldquo;I cannot see the Perfection.&rdquo; In a way, it&rsquo;s
like, the statement is like saying, &ldquo;Well, because I cannot see
the Perfection, I shouldn&rsquo;t expect to see the Perfection. I would
be asking too much.&rdquo;

Now the other instance was that someone was asked, &ldquo;How are
you?&rdquo; And this individual said, &ldquo;Well, I&rsquo;m not feeling
very well. A cold must be coming on.&rdquo; The new language of healing,
the new language of recognizing such, let us say, a physical experience
as a call for correction wasn&rsquo;t brought into play. It was just
sort of accepted. &ldquo;I think a cold is coming on,&rdquo; as though
there were such a thing as a cold that has a life of its own, that was
going to come in and do its dirty work, and then go on its way, and no
choice was to be had about it.

What I&rsquo;m trying to point out is let&rsquo;s not be lazy. If you
know the Truth, if the Truth is being presented to you, if language of
healing is being provided to you, let&rsquo;s use it.

&ldquo;Well,&rdquo; someone might say, &ldquo;That&rsquo;s being
proactive. And that sounds like willfulness to me. And I don&rsquo;t
want to get willful here. And if I say, &lsquo;Well, you know, if you
bang your head against a wall, you can expect a headache,&rsquo;
I&rsquo;m not being proactive. I&rsquo;m being really very passive about
it. Or if a cold is coming on and, you know, that&rsquo;s just the way
it is, I&rsquo;m not being proactive. I&rsquo;m really being very
passive.&rdquo;

But I&rsquo;m going to tell you something. Every thought is proactive.
If you say, &ldquo;If I&rsquo;m not awake, I can&rsquo;t expect anything
more than a headache if I bang my head against a wall,&rdquo; that is a
proactive statement that sets into place or confirms your incarceration
in an illegitimate environment of sin, disease, and death. Suffering! If
you say, &ldquo;I think a cold is coming on. I don&rsquo;t feel too
well. I think a cold is coming on,&rdquo; that is a proactive statement.
Every thought you think is proactive and either establishes your
freedom, or re-establishes your incarceration. That&rsquo;s very
important. Every thought is proactive. Another way of saying it is,
every thought is causative.

Now a thought that is not based on Truth, a thought that is an error
stated, doesn&rsquo;t actually create anything, except dissonance in you
because you are attempting to function at odds with your Nature and at
odds with your very Being, and you can&rsquo;t do that without being
uncomfortable. So, it has an effect, you could say. But you know what?
[laughing] It&rsquo;s like, if you kick God, Who is Immovable, your toe
is going to come into the experience of the Immovability of God and that
the attempt to kick against God can&rsquo;t effect anything. And that
recognition is a strong recognition.

You say it hurts. And you say it&rsquo;s because you&rsquo;re in the
human condition and you have a material toe, and blah, blah, blah. But
it isn&rsquo;t because you&rsquo;re in the human condition. And it
isn&rsquo;t because you have a material toe. It&rsquo;s because in your
mind, you are acting at odds with the Way Things Work. And you
can&rsquo;t do that without a reminder that you are attempting the
impossible and you cannot succeed.

Now, we&rsquo;re going to go someplace else. We&rsquo;re going to go
into a mental institution and we&rsquo;re going to visit the patients.
And one thing that all of the patients will tell you is they want to go
home. They want to go home. If they could go home, everything would be
all right. They belong at home. They want to be there. But the
interesting thing is that they are there because they are having
misperceptions of reality that cause them not to be very functional in
reality. &ldquo;You see, when we&rsquo;re awake, we won&rsquo;t get a
headache when we bang our head against a wall. When we&rsquo;re awake,
we won&rsquo;t get colds. In the meantime though, don&rsquo;t bang your
head against a wall, and don&rsquo;t think to challenge the first
evidences of a cold as being illegitimate and not Divinely Real.&rdquo;
For the person in the insane asylum, the call is for the abandonment of
hallucinations right there in the insane asylum. They must become clear,
lucid, reasonable, seeing clearly there before they can leave.

Why am I saying this? Because healing is not something that will happen
after you wake up, after you go Home. The waking up occurs right where
you are quote &ldquo;in the human condition&rdquo; unquote. Why? Because
the human condition is nothing more than the Kingdom of Heaven
misperceived and believed.

The language of healing is the language of correction. Correction of
what? All the bad stuff that goes on in a material world? No. In the
mind that is misperceiving the Kingdom of Heaven.

If, in your everyday thinking, you think that it&rsquo;s not a wise idea
to bang your head against a wall because you will get a headache, you
will not be prepared if you happen to fall down and hit your head on
something. You will not be prepared to immediately say, &ldquo;This is
not true. There can be no injury where there is no matter. There can be
no injury where the only substance there is of head, or table, or floor,
or wall, is the Energy of Spirit which is Love, and therefore no injury
can come of that interaction, let us say.&rdquo;

You will not be quick to challenge the first evidences of a cold,
because you weren&rsquo;t quick to recognize the misperception in your
mind that allowed for a definition to be given to the bad physical
sensations that caused you to determine that a cold was coming on. You
need to be alert. You need to be conscious all the time.

Do you realize that the person in the insane asylum who wants to go
home, meaning to their family, to their house, to the community they
live in, do you realize that they must come home in their mind first?
Waking up is coming Home into your natural Divine Clarity so that you
are not inserting misinterpretations of everything between you and
everything you&rsquo;re seeing, which is in actuality the Kingdom of
Heaven.

So, you might want to start saying, &ldquo;I look forward to the
experience of banging my head against a wall and having no negative
results. I look forward to here and now to not being imposed upon by a
cold coming on. I look forward to returning clarity right here in the
middle of the insane asylum. It isn&rsquo;t going to happen out there
when I&rsquo;m back at home. I want clarity. And I want that clarity to
be available to me in this instance, in this instant, in this place I
find myself in, wherever that might be. And I expect to see different
results; results different from the ones I had when I was not using
language of healing in my thinking processes.&rdquo;

Now are you the Sons and Daughters of God. Now is when the Kingdom of
Heaven is happening. And here is where it is happening. And you are each
the Christ with the capacity to see it As It Is.

And you need to want to see it enough not to let yourself sloppily think
in the language of conflict. And especially not to justify it.
Don&rsquo;t justify suffering because &ldquo;What can you expect?
We&rsquo;re in the human condition.&rdquo; That&rsquo;s language that
needs to be [snaps fingers] kicked out. That is language not to be
allowed. Why? Because it doesn&rsquo;t allow for healing. It
doesn&rsquo;t allow for a sudden shift of perception. It constantly
reconfirms the status quo, your current beliefs. So watch the language
you use, because it will either confirm your freedom, or it will confirm
your suffering, it will confirm your incarceration.

Remember this isn&rsquo;t all lovely words to benefit you in the sweet
bye-and-bye. These are words of transformation. These are words of
healing. These are words of correction right where you are, because
right where you are quote &ldquo;in the human condition&rdquo; unquote
is where the waking up will do, is where the going Home will do. And the
going Home will be a matter of abandoning the language of suffering for
the language of healing, and the thinking that accompanies that, and the
responses that arise out of that, the responses that immediately correct
a sloppy language of suffering thought.

Too proactive for you? Well remember that the thoughts that don&rsquo;t
challenge the status quo proactively confirm it! Don&rsquo;t tolerate
illness! Don&rsquo;t tolerate suffering because you&rsquo;re not awake
yet! Else you hold on to the suffering and you confirm the dream a
little longer. You&rsquo;ve got to be willing to shake things up. In the
world? No! In your thinking processes.

You&rsquo;re always giving voice to one of two teachers&mdash;the Voice
for Truth, or the ego, the voice for fear. Whichever you are giving
voice to, you are confirming. And whatever you confirm, you are bound
to.

Would you not like to be bound to freedom? &ldquo;Oh. Well, that
requires me to take a stand.&rdquo; Well, when you say you&rsquo;re
going get a headache if you hit your head against a wall, you&rsquo;re
standing for something. You are standing for something. You&rsquo;re
standing for suffering and for continuing to be locked into an illusion.
At every moment you are standing for something.

The journey back is the journey back to your right Mind. The journey
back is a journey into your innate Divine Clarity, your Sanity.
It&rsquo;s not a journey back to the Kingdom of Heaven somewhere off in
the distance. The journey back is you desiring to see the Kingdom of
Heaven that is in front of you as the Kingdom of Heaven, instead of what
you have come to believe it is; a belief which you reinforce as long as
you are not correcting it with the language of healing that you are
learning.

&ldquo;Well, I can feel a cold coming on. I&rsquo;d better go get the
Echinacea.&rdquo; Oh. Oh, you are interested in correction. Obviously
you&rsquo;re interested in correction. But why not catch the thought and
step back from the initial thought. &ldquo;Oh, a cold is coming
on.&rdquo; Step back from it. &ldquo;No. That&rsquo;s not true. Beliefs
come to me for life, and I give them all the life they have. I am not
going to entertain this belief that a cold is coming on.&rdquo; You see?
Correct it by stepping back from the thought and the definition you
gave. Step back from it to an acknowledgement of the Truth that you have
learned using the language of healing.

And be clear ahead of time that if you do hit your head against a wall,
you don&rsquo;t need to suffer for one moment. Be clear about that ahead
of time, because Spirit interacting with Spirit is purely harmonious,
and there can be no injury from the interaction of the Energy of Love.
It&rsquo;s your Birthright, if you happen to bump your head, not to
suffer from it [snaps fingers] even for a split-second.

If you don&rsquo;t see that this language of healing that you are
learning is giving you the capacity to be free here and now in what
you&rsquo;re calling the human condition, from suffering, then you are
as lost as you were before anybody gave you the language of healing. And
that&rsquo;s not its purpose.

I want you all to become a little bit more indignant when something
presents itself to you that suggests that suffering is inevitable
because blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. Not the least of which is that
right now you&rsquo;re in the human condition. No. You&rsquo;re not in
the human condition any more than you&rsquo;re in this lifetime.
It&rsquo;s bad language. It&rsquo;s language that will not free you. It
won&rsquo;t free you because it&rsquo;s not the Truth.

The language of Truth will free you. Why? Because it will cause you not
to be arguing against your own good. It will cause you not to be in a
state of proactively denying Reality. And when you&rsquo;re not denying
Reality, there is no dissonance between you and Reality. And
that&rsquo;s when a sudden shift of perception can occur. You could say
that&rsquo;s when the Father can take the last step.

Again, you&rsquo;re going to have to give up your illusions right here
in the insane asylum. You&rsquo;re going to have to give up your
illusions right in the middle of whatever definition you&rsquo;re giving
to the Kingdom of Heaven, which is the only thing that&rsquo;s in your
face. And you&rsquo;re going to have to do it consciously, alertly, with
great curiosity, and an element of adventure. But don&rsquo;t put it off
into the future. Bring it into play right here and right now because
right here and right now is where you are deluded. And it&rsquo;s not
because you&rsquo;re in an environment of delusion. You&rsquo;re not in
an environment of illusions. You&rsquo;re in the middle of the Kingdom
of Heaven. If this isn&rsquo;t true, then we might as well stop reading
the Course. You might as well stop studying it. You might as well stop
considering what it&rsquo;s saying. It&rsquo;s not just a bunch of nice
ideas to store away in your memory to draw upon to comfort you while you
suffer through things that are not even real.

So, what am I saying? I&rsquo;m saying be more proactive in terms of
your healing. Be more proactive in terms of having very low tolerance
for the imposition of suffering. And understand that the abolishment of
suffering is going to happen right where you are, right now. And it will
happen whether you&rsquo;re totally awake or not. It will happen whether
you&rsquo;re deserving or not. So, cast your vote. Put your weight on
the side that you want freedom, instead of putting your full weight,
casting your vote, on the side of suffering and &ldquo;What can you
expect? We&rsquo;re in the human condition.&rdquo; It&rsquo;s like
saying, &ldquo;Well, of course I&rsquo;m insane. I&rsquo;m in an insane
asylum. If they&rsquo;d just let me out of here, everybody would see I
was fine!&rdquo; In the insane asylum is where the one who is insane
will get well.

In the human condition, at whatever level of development you are, you
will begin to have the evidences of waking up as you choose for clarity.
And what happens? What happens in the middle of your inevitable
suffering. You have [snap of the fingers] a healing, [another snap of
the fingers] a healing, a clarification, a transformation. Maybe
it&rsquo;s not earthshaking. Maybe it isn&rsquo;t universally impactful.
But each time you have the experience of banging your head and not
hurting, every time the sensation of a cold coming on occurs and you
say, &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t buy it. I object,&rdquo; and it goes away,
you&rsquo;re demonstrating the fact that you will wake up right where
you are. And each of those events will weaken tremendously the hold that
the status quo has on you, that the language of suffering has on you.

So, instead of saying, &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t be surprised if you get a
headache when you bump your head against a wall,&rdquo; start saying,
&ldquo;Don&rsquo;t be surprised if you don&rsquo;t suffer at all when
you bump your head against a wall.&rdquo; There&rsquo;s quite a
difference there. One is an open door to expansion into total
freedom&mdash;it undoes the status quo. So don&rsquo;t be lazy and
sloppy. Start taking hold of your Birthright.

Let&rsquo;s go to the book.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*The Journey Back*
</div>

For those of you who are in the first or second editions, just be
patient. There is some text here that you do not have.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You are hampered in your progress by your demands to know what you do
NOT know.
</div>

And I&rsquo;m going to add, because it was implicit in what I was
saying: You are hampered in your progress by your demands to know what
you do not know before you will continue to move forward.

I was addressing this to Helen and Bill. It&rsquo;s true for everyone
else as well. You are always hampered in your progress by your demands
to know what you do not know before you will proceed forward.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is actually a way of holding on to deprivation. You cannot
reasonably object to following instructions in a course FOR knowing on
the grounds that you do NOT know. The need for the course is implicit in
your objection.
</div>

Now here&rsquo;s the correction.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Knowledge is not the motivation for learning this course. PEACE is. As
the prerequisite for knowledge, peace MUST be learned. This is only
because those who are in conflict are NOT peaceful, and peace is the
CONDITION of knowledge, because it is the condition of the Kingdom.
</div>

It&rsquo;s a very simple thing. You cannot know the Truth if
you&rsquo;re not in your peace. If you want to know the Truth, you must
choose for your Peace first and get into it. Truth is a Singularity and
it cannot be perceived through the lens of conflict.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Knowledge &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; or what I have referred to as Knowing&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; will be restored when you meet its conditions. This is not a
bargain made by God, Who makes NO bargains. It is merely the result of
your misuse of His laws on behalf of a will that is not His.
</div>

When you say, &ldquo;my will be done, my definitions be done, my word be
done,&rdquo; what you&rsquo;re doing is playing at having a will,
playing at being an independent will-er of things. The only thing is
that that independent state, that so-called independent state, is
something you have imagined. It isn&rsquo;t a state that can exist,
because you can&rsquo;t be separated from your Source and Its Will which
is your True Will. And so you are inevitably in a state of conflict when
you are being willful.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Knowledge IS His Will.
</div>

God&rsquo;s Will.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you are OPPOSING His Will, how can you have knowledge?
</div>

Any of you who has been in a state of worry and fear and conflict, who
has chosen to set it aside temporarily in order to meditate and become
still, has found that in the stillness clarity comes. Knowing what is
appropriate comes. Knowing What Is True comes. And in knowing What Is
True, you know what you don&rsquo;t need to be concerned about. You know
what is illusory and is therefore not worthy of your attention, and you
set it aside. And you realize that the very state of conflict that you
were in was a result of being out of your peace in the first place.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I have told you what knowledge offers you, but it is clear that you do
not regard this as wholly desirable. If you did, you would hardly be
willing to throw it away so readily, when the ego asks for your
allegiance.
</div>

Well, part of the problem is that the ego asks for your allegiance in
the language of suffering&mdash;a language you&rsquo;re well familiar
with. And out of habit [snaps fingers] you tend to join with it, because
the language of healing is not as firmly established in you and you have
not arrived at enough clarity about it to give your allegiance to it no
matter what is said to you in the old language.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The distraction of the ego seems to interfere with your learning, but
the ego HAS no power to distract you, unless you GIVE it the power.
</div>

I said earlier that beliefs come to you for life, and you give them all
the life they have. Well, likewise, the ego comes to you for life and
you give it all the life it has. The journey back is where you step back
from giving it life to recognizing that you&rsquo;re the power. You are
that which is valid which the ego must borrow from in order to appear to
have life. And you do not choose to energize it any further and confuse
the whole situation. That&rsquo;s the journey back.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego&rsquo;s voice is a hallucination. You cannot expect it to say
&ldquo;I am not real.&rdquo; Hallucinations ARE inaccurate perceptions
of reality.
</div>

You see, the world and universe&mdash;and whatever you mean by those
words&mdash;are an inaccurate description of the Kingdom of Heaven. And
what you&rsquo;re describing, you&rsquo;re creating for yourself, and so
you&rsquo;re having an hallucination. About what? About Reality. About
the Kingdom of Heaven.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Hallucinations ARE inaccurate perceptions of reality. Yet you are not
asked to dispel them alone. You are merely asked to evaluate them in
terms of their results to YOU.
</div>

Well, that&rsquo;s what we&rsquo;ve been talking about. You hit your
head against a wall, and you have a headache. Not too pleasing results,
I would say. &ldquo;I feel a cold coming on.&rdquo; And it comes on. Not
too pleasing results, I would say. You&rsquo;ve got to weigh the
results.

On the other hand, if you feel a cold coming on, as you put it, as you
define it, remember you&rsquo;re the one giving the words. You&rsquo;re
the one giving the words that said, &ldquo;If you hit your head against
a wall, you&rsquo;re going to get a headache.&rdquo; You gave it the
words. But if you give it a different word, and there is no suffering
from banging your head and the cold doesn&rsquo;t come on, you have
better results. And you need to pay attention to the results to see if
you&rsquo;re getting what you want.

Now this isn&rsquo;t some spiritual, highfalutin stuff. This is
down-to-earth, sensible, practical information, isn&rsquo;t it?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You are merely asked to evaluate them in terms of their results to YOU.
If you do not want them on the basis of loss of peace&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning because you recognize that you will lose your Peace
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; they will be removed from your mind FOR you.
</div>

Now listen to this.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Every response to the ego is a call to war&hellip;
</div>

You might have thought that more appropriately it would have said,
&ldquo;Every invitation from the ego is a call to war.&rdquo; No. All
the ego does is make suggestions like a hypnotist. Your responses are a
call to war, because you&rsquo;re engaging with an illusion as though
it&rsquo;s real, thereby giving it energy and seeming to make it real.
And because it&rsquo;s a defense mechanism, it responds to you
defensively.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Every response to the ego is a call to war, and war DOES deprive you of
peace. Yet in this war there is no opponent. THIS is the
reinterpretation of reality which you must make to secure peace, and the
only one you need EVER make.
</div>

&ldquo;Oh, if you hit your head against the wall, you&rsquo;re going to
get a headache.&rdquo; That&rsquo;s what the ego suggests. And if you
say, &ldquo;Well, everybody, we&rsquo;d better not hit our head against
a wall so we won&rsquo;t have a headache,&rdquo; you&rsquo;ve responded
to the ego. You&rsquo;ve engaged, instead of stepping away from it like
you would a turd on the sidewalk.

&ldquo;I feel a cold coming on.&rdquo; Be careful not to engage with
that suggestion. I know you think you said it, but when you hear those
words in your mind, be alert. Challenge it. Correct it. &ldquo;Why that
suggestion is the biggest bunch of bullshit I ever heard because colds
don&rsquo;t have a life of their own. I would have to give it all the
life it has and I&rsquo;m not going to do that. It&rsquo;s not the
Father&rsquo;s Will and therefore it&rsquo;s not my will.&rdquo; And you
be quick about it. You be quick about making the correction. You be glad
enough to have the language of healing, the language of Truth available
to you, that you use it to correct these unkind and malicious
suggestions that the ego makes solely for the purpose of creating
conflict, so that you lose your Peace, which is the condition for
Knowledge, the condition for Knowing the Truth.

You know, you could say that I&rsquo;m inviting/encouraging you to
become active students of the Course. Nothing could be further from the
Truth. I&rsquo;m encouraging you to become conscious, active Christs.
I&rsquo;m encouraging you to actively energize, we might say, What You
Divinely Are. If you were going to become a student of Truth, you would
have to go to the Teacher of Truth, wouldn&rsquo;t you? Well, this is
not the Teacher of Truth. This is a record of the Teacher of Truth. But
the Teacher of Truth is the Altar in You, is the Holy Spirit in You,
that which is nothing more than your right Mind. So, that&rsquo;s where
you go to be taught.

And as I&rsquo;ve said before, the wonder of the way it works is that
you go to your Essential Being to be healed of the misperceptions you
have developed about yourself and which you believe and trust and
reinforce. You go to your very own Divine Being to be taught the Truth,
so that you might come into the full Conscious Experience of It once
again, and lose your insanity, abandon your insanity, and become
Integrated, Single, One, Indivisible, Undivided, as a Conscious
Experience.

I&rsquo;m being rather pushy today, like I&rsquo;m saying get your ass
in gear. But what I&rsquo;m doing is saying in so many words,
you&rsquo;re missing the Joy that&rsquo;s yours by delaying your
awakening, by justifying suffering, by justifying the dream, because,
after all, you&rsquo;re in the human condition, or you&rsquo;re in this
lifetime, like some sort of a side trip from your Birthright that
you&rsquo;ve got to live with until you get back on the main road.

I&rsquo;ll tell you something. The Kingdom of Heaven is a wonderful
insane asylum, because everything about it constantly makes the inmates
ill at ease with their definitions. It constantly gives you feedback
that the way you&rsquo;re looking at things, the way you&rsquo;re
thinking about things, the language you&rsquo;re using, is falling short
of your fulfillment. Why? So that you&rsquo;ll make a different choice.

If I&rsquo;ve made nothing else clear today, let this be what is clear.
You will wake up here. You will make the journey back right where you
are. So right where you are is where you will, as they say, come in
contact with communicable diseases and not catch them. Right here is
where you will slip and bump your head and have no injury. Or if you
don&rsquo;t catch it quickly [snaps fingers], then you might find an
injury which is almost instantaneously healed. Right here is where you
will have the experience of the journey back. Right here is where you
will have the experience of the experiential re-definition of matter
into Spirit. Right here in the middle of the human condition is where
the Kingdom of Heaven will emerge in your Conscious Awareness.

So don&rsquo;t delay by saying, &ldquo;Well, what can you expect?&rdquo;
You can expect miracles. But then you&rsquo;ve got to implement your
expectation by not lazily and sloppily going along with the old language
of suffering. You see? &ldquo;I feel a cold coming on. Better get the
Echinacea.&rdquo; No. &ldquo;Ah. I feel a cold coming on, but my healing
can be faster than the amount of time it takes for me to get to the
Echinacea because I&rsquo;m stepping back one step from that suggestion
and saying, &lsquo;I don&rsquo;t buy it. I object.&rsquo; I correct this
suggestion. I will not give it life by energizing it with my faith in
what it&rsquo;s saying and the penalties that come along with believing
it. I will not do that.&rdquo; Take the step back oHHhHome immediately.
Take the step back in the direction of Home immediately. And have fun
with it.

One last thing. Right in the middle of your ignorance is where your
enlightenment will come. So now you can say, &ldquo;Well, what can I
expect in the middle of my ignorance?&rdquo; Enlightenment! That&rsquo;s
what you can expect. [snaps fingers] A sudden shift of perception that
doesn&rsquo;t leave you where it found you, that doesn&rsquo;t leave you
where you thought you were. Okay.

Please take what I&rsquo;m saying to heart, because there&rsquo;s
absolutely nothing going on in the so-called human condition that can
actually object to and stand in the way of sudden shifts of perception.
If I continue any further, I will belabor the point. It&rsquo;s in your
hands. It&rsquo;s in your mind. Which language are you going to use to
think with?

I love you all.

P. S. Those in the insane asylum do not see the characteristic of their
insanity. If they did, they could set it aside. And when they do, they
will set it aside. I will not always address what you think you need to
learn. I will not always address what you think you need to know. But I
will always address exactly what needs to be known for your release from
the insanity that you know not the characteristics of. The Holy Spirit
works this way and you must trust It.

I look forward to being with you next week.

[^1]: T8 The Journey Back

