---
title: Aug 15, 2004
ref: T8.1 The Direction of the Curriculum
alink: "/acim/text/08/chap0801/"
---

Good afternoon. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

So, in the Sparkly Book, which for many is better known as the HLC
Edition, the chapter is called, &ldquo;The Journey Back,&rdquo; which
was changed to &ldquo;The Direction of the Curriculum.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*The Direction of the Curriculum*[^1]
</div>

The curriculum in the book? The curriculum in A Course In Miracles? No.
The curriculum is the retracing of the steps you took away from the
willingness to be the function of recognizing God in each and every
thing. Whatever course you took in leaving Home constitutes the course
in miracles of going back Home, of the journey back. There&rsquo;s no
objective Course In Miracles. And there&rsquo;s no objective curriculum
for you to apply for yourself. The curriculum was set in place by you as
you thought to be independent and original and in charge, and on and on
and on.

The retracing of the course you took away from Home should be a joyous
thing, because it&rsquo;s you coming into your right Mind, you coming
back into your Sanity. So the direction of the curriculum is toward
Home. And it&rsquo;s an interior journey. Each of you will experience
this course in unique ways. But there&rsquo;s one fundamental thing that
all of you will participate in, and that is the relinquishment of the
idea, the mad idea, you might say, that you have a capacity to think for
yourself, that you have a capacity to give definition to every thing,
that you have a capacity to be an authority independent of the Way
Things Work.

And you might say that the undermining of the course away from Home is
always brought into focus by the challenge you bring to the fundamental
idea that you have a capacity to think apart from God, to see apart from
God, to experience apart from God. Each step Home is the undoing of the
first step away from Home, the undoing of the bill of divorcement. If
you don&rsquo;t get this point that returning Home is an undoing of the
bill of divorcement, you can become preoccupied with a lifetimes-long
process of involvement with the undoing of each step that you took away
from Home. You are finding that I am constantly undermining the first
step away.

Now, in the book.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Those whom you perceive as opponents are PART of your peace, which YOU
are giving up by attacking them.
</div>

This is one of those things you need to be very clear about because
it&rsquo;s so easy to misunderstand. And as a result of
misunderstanding, tie yourself up unnecessarily in grief until you
become clear.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Those whom you perceive as opponents are PART of your peace &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; it is quite possible for you to see someone who is not behaving
badly, who is not behaving unpleasantly, as an opponent. It is quite
possible for you to misperceive and misunderstand the presence of
someone who is benign. It&rsquo;s possible for you to be confused about
a friend, and see an opponent where there is none.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Those whom you perceive as opponents &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in this case &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; are PART of your peace, which YOU are giving up by attacking
them.
</div>

Well, attacking them? Yes. You&rsquo;re attacking them by seeing
potential harm where benign-ness is, an opponent where a friend is,
because you are confused.

Now, on the other hand, there are those who are themselves confused, who
are experiencing fear because of their bill of divorcement, who are
expressing their fear in antagonistic behavior toward you. You are not
responsible for their behavior. Their own beliefs are responsible for
their behavior. They are behaving in a way that causes you, out of
habit, to respond with defense, because their behavior is an expression
of attack. These, you could say, are opponents in that they are trying
to upset you. Whereas in the first case, it was a friend who was not
behaving in an obtuse way and in whom there was no call for defense from
you.

Now, the key here is that when someone is behaving in a way that is
obtuse, unfriendly, unkind, thoughtless, hateful, when they are acting
out their own great fear, you have a choice to either see them as an
opponent, or to see their behavior as a call for Love from a Christ who
has forgotten Who He (or She) Is. If you make the mistake of seeing them
as an opponent, you are attacking them, because you are completely
missing the point that they are a Christ who is confused by the fact
that they are entertaining a sense of independence that will always be a
fearful experience, and will cause them to behave toward their world as
though it is hostile and something which they must protect themselves
against.

There is never an occasion when anything that confronts you must be
defined as an opponent. Again, there is never a situation in which
anything in your world must be defined as an opponent. And again, if you
determine that something or someone in your world is an opponent, you
have sacrificed your capacity to see clearly and to be an agent for
change, an agent for healing.

Now the big question is why, under any circumstance, would you determine
that someone or something in your world was an opponent? Well, only when
you yourself are seeing yourself as an independent agent, only when you
see yourself as what you have defined yourself, you see them as an
opponent, because they are challenging something in you that you have
made-up about yourself that is pure bullshit, pure fantasy, pure
illusion, which is vulnerable to being uncovered for what it
is&mdash;nothing.

The fact that you see them as an opponent and decide to defend yourself
against them, which constitutes attack, the fact that you do this means
that before any resolution can occur, you must get your own mind
straight. It means that you must within yourself consciously and
conscientiously undermine your faith in the mad idea that you actually
took a first step away from Home, that you actually could get a bill of
divorcement and did get a bill of divorcement.

Your seeing another as a threat to you, an opponent, means that you are
securely seated in a very definite belief about yourself and a very
definite sense of what you are that has nothing to do with the Truth.
You are responsible for correcting that. And until you correct that, you
will not be able to engage the true idea that this one behaving in an
objectionable way is really the Christ suffering from a belief that he
or she is independent and vulnerable. At which point, you can begin to
behave in a way that proves to them, or him, that he, or she, is safe
and doesn&rsquo;t need to behave this way with you.

Until you do this, you&rsquo;re not in a position to state the Truth
that uncovers what needs to change in their mind so that they are free
to behave in a new way. It doesn&rsquo;t allow you to say
&ldquo;No&rdquo; to inappropriate behavior without a hooker, a hidden
hook, that constitutes judgment of some sort, which will absolutely
block the miracle, the potential, for the sudden shift of perception for
them. It doesn&rsquo;t allow you to recognize that they are not
opponents and that they are part of your Peace.

And so again, those whom you see:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Those whom you perceive as opponents &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and I&rsquo;m adding: Whether they&rsquo;re behaving that way
or not.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; are PART of your peace, which YOU are giving up by attacking
them.
</div>

Meaning determining and defining them as opponents.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
How can you HAVE what you give up?
</div>

If you give up your capacity to recognize the Christ in your Brother,
you can&rsquo;t have the experience of the Christ in your Brother. And
without that vision, both of you are stuck.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You SHARE to have, but you do not give it up yourself. When you give up
peace, you are EXCLUDING yourself from it.

When you give up peace, you are EXCLUDING yourself from it.
</div>

In exactly the same way that when you said you wanted a bill of
divorcement, you said it from the place of your inseparability from God,
the Place of your strength, the Place of your invulnerability. And you
had no idea that when you actually confirmed to yourself, as insane as
it is, that you had got the divorce that you gave up the Conscious
Experience of your Identity. You didn&rsquo;t know that you would be
excluding yourself from That Which gave you Identity.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you give up peace, you are EXCLUDING yourself from it. This is a
condition &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the absence of Peace.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is a condition which is so alien to the Kingdom that you cannot
understand the state which prevails within it. Your past learning must
have taught you the wrong things, simply because it has not made you
happy. On this basis alone, its value should be questioned.
</div>

In other words, the curriculum that you have been engaged in, which has
been one of taking a course away from Home, must have taught you the
wrong things simply because it has not made you happy. If you are not
happy, you need to be asking yourself asking yourself,
&ldquo;Why?&rdquo; And you might even get more specific and ask the
question, &ldquo;Might it be because I&rsquo;m moving in the wrong
direction? Might it be that the course I&rsquo;m engaged in isn&rsquo;t
as valuable and wonderful as I thought it might be?&rdquo; And then
don&rsquo;t leave it there. Then, when you finally acknowledge that
indeed you&rsquo;re not happy because you&rsquo;re not acting within
your integrity, you&rsquo;re not moving in a direction that works, then
you need to decide to change directions.

And there really is only one change of course to take. And that is the
reverse of the one you&rsquo;ve been on. It isn&rsquo;t just 3 degrees
to the right, or 20 degrees to the left, of the direction you were
moving in. It&rsquo;s 180 degrees&mdash;reverse. You see, it&rsquo;s not
what direction you&rsquo;re moving in away from God that makes a
difference. It&rsquo;s abandoning the course that takes you away from
That Which gives you Existence and the Experience of Being.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If learning aims at change, and that is ALWAYS its purpose, are you
satisfied with the changes YOUR learning has brought you?
Dissatisfaction with learning outcomes must be a sign of learning
failure, since it means that you did not get what you WANT.
</div>

But I&rsquo;m going to add also that dissatisfaction with learning
outcomes is the beginning of the return to Sanity. Because until you
realize that you&rsquo;re not happy with the outcomes, you can&rsquo;t
make a decision to change anything. If you did not get what you want,
then you were engaged in learning failure. But recognizing that means
that you&rsquo;re beginning to learn.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The curriculum of the Atonement &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and what is it? The undoing of each step you took away from
Home.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The curriculum of the Atonement is the opposite of the curriculum you
have established for yourselves, BUT SO IS ITS OUTCOME. If the outcome
of yours &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your curriculum &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; has made you unhappy, and if you WANT a different one, a change
in the curriculum is obviously necessary.
</div>

Now, we have talked enough for you to at least have grasped the idea
that what is making you unhappy, what is causing you not to be able to
be happy, is your own independent thinking, and the so-called pleasure
or hit you get from pretending that you have some authority, and
therefore a capacity to successfully control.

Well, in the process of utilizing this so-called capacity, you&rsquo;ve
given yourself definitions. Definitions that aren&rsquo;t the Truth
About You, but definitions that are satisfying to any attempt to be an
independent authorizer. And as a result, you have built up a backlog of
memory of your experiences of everything, conveniently forgetting that
the way you&rsquo;re experiencing everything is flawed by the fact that
it&rsquo;s being observed by something that doesn&rsquo;t exist&mdash;a
mind independent from God.

You now live your life based upon those memories, and the definitions
you have applied to them. You see, first of all, you applied definitions
to the experience of everything. That gave you a memory of things that
allowed you to be able to come to conclusions. And thus you began to
have definitions of definitions.

&ldquo;Well, you know, I have experienced the fact that the people of a
certain race have consistently expressed these vices, or these virtues.
Therefore, on top of my seeing them as different from me, I can see that
they are different from the race I&rsquo;m a part of.&rdquo;

So now we have a definition of a definition. And you live your days out
caught in the swirling of these definitions, and these definitions of
definitions, and you never touch the edge of What&rsquo;s Really Going
On. You&rsquo;ve lost the capacity, by virtue of the definitions
you&rsquo;ve given everything, to recognize God in any of it, or to
recognize the Christ in your Brother.

So, what does this mean? It means that the change in curriculum is the
abandoning of the utilization of memory, of everything that you&rsquo;ve
been taught, of everything that you&rsquo;ve taught yourself, because
you weren&rsquo;t awake when you were applying the definitions to
everything, and therefore your perception of it all is flawed. And yet
you rely upon this every day, and use it as the means of governing
yourself and everyone else you can.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The first change that must be introduced is a change in direction. A
meaningful curriculum cannot be inconsistent. If it is planned by two
teachers, each believing in diametrically opposed ideas, it cannot BE
integrated.
</div>

Is that clear? It cannot be integrated. If it means it can&rsquo;t be
integrated, it means that what the Holy Spirit reveals to you cannot be
applied to the world you&rsquo;re seeing, and it cannot be applied to
the self you think you are. Therefore, it isn&rsquo;t going to help the
self you think you are improve and have better control, or better
anything.

Changing directions, turning around 180 degrees, means not relying upon
yourself at all. If you are, you haven&rsquo;t changed direction 180
degrees, and you&rsquo;re still heading away from Home, and fooling
yourself into believing that this direction doesn&rsquo;t take you away
as far as fast and that&rsquo;s an improvement. That&rsquo;s the
illogical thinking.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the curriculum &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is planned by two teachers&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in other words, who you think you are, and God or the Holy
Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; each believing in diametrically opposed ideas, it cannot BE
integrated. If it is carried out by these two teachers simultaneously,
each one merely INTERFERES with the other. This leads to
fluctuation&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you might say Unevenness &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; but NOT to change. The volatile HAVE NO direction. They cannot
choose one, because they cannot relinquish the other even if the other
does not exist. Their conflicted curriculum teaches them ALL directions
exist, and gives them no rationale for choice.
</div>

Haven&rsquo;t you heard it? &ldquo;Everyone has their own reality. All
directions exist.&rdquo; And when you say that, it gives you no
rationale for choice. And that&rsquo;s where the insanity lies in the
New Age thinking that, &ldquo;Everyone creates their own reality.
That&rsquo;s the way it works. That&rsquo;s the truth. That is the key
to your freedom.&rdquo; No. It&rsquo;s the key to the loss of your
freedom because it gives you no rationale for choice.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The total senselessness of such a curriculum must be fully recognized
before a real change in direction becomes possible.
</div>

And you know, that&rsquo;s the hardest part, arriving at a point where
you&rsquo;re clear enough to say that the choices you&rsquo;ve been
making aren&rsquo;t working, they can&rsquo;t work, and as long as you
persist in that direction you will suffer, and that doesn&rsquo;t make
sense for you any longer. Until that which you have cherished becomes
recognizably unwanted, you will not change direction.

You say, &ldquo;Well, I know people who are really demonstrating in
their life that their choices are causing their suffering. They&rsquo;re
in and out of jail. They&rsquo;re always having fights. They&rsquo;re
disagreeable. They are anti-social. Everything they are doing is
obviously creating suffering for them. But I&rsquo;m not having that
experience. The way I&rsquo;m using my mind is keeping me from having
those experiences. I&rsquo;ve learned how to make better choices.&rdquo;

Well, not being as miserable as someone else doesn&rsquo;t truly mean
that you&rsquo;re not experiencing misery. &ldquo;Boy, I&rsquo;m glad
I&rsquo;m not in their shoes. But, damn, how am I going to make it this
month? Things are really tight and I&rsquo;m very uneasy about
it.&rdquo; You see? You&rsquo;re not experiencing joy. You&rsquo;re not
experiencing freedom from need. You&rsquo;re not bubbling over with
inspiration and insight, which when you express it makes everyone around
you feel better, or which promotes greater clarity for them. So be
careful of these silly comparisons that you use to say, &ldquo;I&rsquo;m
not miserable.&rdquo;

&ldquo;I not as miserable as so-and-so. I didn&rsquo;t spend 3 months in
jail. I didn&rsquo;t get sodomized. I didn&rsquo;t get stabbed. And I
didn&rsquo;t run into an old buddy when I was released from jail who
immediately enticed me back into another situation. I&rsquo;ve got it
good.&rdquo; No. You don&rsquo;t. If you&rsquo;re still operating on a
course that&rsquo;s 180 degrees out of sync with your fulfillment,
you&rsquo;re not better off.

And you&rsquo;ve got to arrive at a point where you stop being satisfied
with just not having as much trouble as Joe down the street.
You&rsquo;ve got to arrive at a point where you say, &ldquo;Although
I&rsquo;m not as miserable as Joe down the street, I am not consistently
happy. I am not consistently free of fear. In fact, even though
I&rsquo;m generally happy, there is always an undercurrent of fear.
There&rsquo;s always a feeling of vulnerability that may rear its head
at any time and throw me off guard. Even though, well, for the last
year, I&rsquo;ve done pretty well at not having those kind of
experiences.&rdquo;

You&rsquo;ve got to arrive at a point where you say, &ldquo;No matter
how much less miserable I am than Joe down the street, it&rsquo;s not my
Birthright to be miserable to any degree. And I am going to change
direction and learn from a different teacher that brings me back into
the fullness of What I Am and an untarnished and undistorted Conscious
Experience of everything as It Truly Is.&rdquo;

Again. And mind you that this is speaking of your relatively good
experiences of life, that for most of your life have been better than
Joe down the street.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The total senselessness of such a curriculum &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; a curriculum that says, &ldquo;All directions exist.&rdquo; . .

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; must be fully recognized before a real change in direction
becomes possible. You cannot learn simultaneously from two teachers who
are in TOTAL disagreement about everything.
</div>

What you call &ldquo;your ego&rdquo; is in total disagreement with God.
You didn&rsquo;t get a half-a-divorce from God. You got a whole divorce.
You said, &ldquo;I want to see things my way.&rdquo; You got a total
divorce from God, and therefore the way you&rsquo;re being is in total
disagreement with God. Well, what&rsquo;s another way of saying that? It
means you&rsquo;re in total disagreement or misalignment with the Way
Things Work. That is perhaps a little less threatening than saying,
&ldquo;You&rsquo;re in total disagreement with God.&rdquo;

If you are choosing to be at odds with the Way Things Work, you are in
total disagreement with the Way Things Work. But at least in your mind,
you are able to conceive of the fact that the words, &ldquo;The Way
Things Work,&rdquo; means something that is unchangeable, and that you
are either going to cooperate with and experience harmony, or be
uncooperative with and experience suffering.

You see, your ego might want to say, &ldquo;But I&rsquo;m not in total
disagreement with God,&rdquo; and fuss about the words. But if
you&rsquo;re not in agreement, if you&rsquo;re being feisty and trying
to be original and not fit in to the Way Things Work, it&rsquo;s obvious
to you that you will not be happy. And it&rsquo;s easy for you to see
that at the bottom line you really don&rsquo;t want to fit in, because
you&rsquo;ll become nothing. You&rsquo;ll just be a cog or a wheel in
the machine. You won&rsquo;t stand out. And you don&rsquo;t want that.
Well, if you want to change directions, you&rsquo;ve got to start
wanting that.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You cannot learn simultaneously from two teachers who are in TOTAL
disagreement about everything. Their joint curriculum presents an
impossible learning task. They are teaching you ENTIRELY different
things in ENTIRELY different ways, which might be possible, except for
the crucial fact that both are TEACHING YOU ABOUT YOURSELF.
</div>

They are teaching you opposite things about yourself.

Now if your ego is nothing more than you wearing a mask, then you are
being one of the teachers incognito. And the only thing you can teach is
what&rsquo;s stored in your memory. And what&rsquo;s stored in your
memory is distorted, because it was being viewed by a self that
doesn&rsquo;t really exist. And even in its supposititious existence had
the task of defining everything differently from What The Father Was
Being right there in everything. Therefore, everything that you behind
the mask are teaching is false. It&rsquo;s not the end of the world to
realize that. It&rsquo;s essential. Because until you realize that in
the tips of your toes, you will not from the tips of your toes engage in
reversing your direction and coming swiftly back into your right Mind.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your reality &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your true Reality &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is unaffected by both&hellip;
</div>

It&rsquo;s unaffected by&mdash;What You Divinely Are&mdash;is unaffected
by the Voice for Truth or the voice for fear. Because the Voice for
Truth uncovers What You Are. It doesn&rsquo;t change What You Are. It
re-reveals you&mdash;What You Divinely Are&mdash;to you and reengages
your mind in the Conscious Experience of What You Are. So it
doesn&rsquo;t affect you, even though it heals your mind of the
misperceptions that have kept you caught in suffering.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your reality is unaffected by both, but if you listen to both, your mind
will be split about what your reality IS.
</div>

I&rsquo;ll tell you something. The Truth is self-confirming. And so, as
you begin to head for Home, as you do an about-face and move in the
direction of the only curriculum there is, which is the undoing of your
steps away from Home, and Truth dawns in your minds more and more
clearly, the teaching of the other voice is going to become more and
more difficult to tolerate. It&rsquo;s going to be become more and more
problematic. It&rsquo;s going to become more and more intolerable to
you. It&rsquo;s going to be clearer to you that it doesn&rsquo;t work,
and that it can&rsquo;t work, even though you slip from time to time and
try to employ it. And what had been familiar to you, and a comfort to
you, will now be more and more distressing.

There&rsquo;s a benefit in this, because if you don&rsquo;t resist the
simple Truth of what I just said as you experience it, it will provide
you with further conviction and commitment on retracing your steps, on
engaging in the course in miracles. Miracles are sudden shifts of
perception. Not only that. They are sudden shifts of perception about
what you had been misperceiving, sudden shifts of perception about what
you had been misunderstanding, so that you are no longer suffering about
this particular misunderstanding or that other one, and you&rsquo;re not
having the experience of misperception regarding this or that.

Is it clear to everyone that this Course is not a head trip? It&rsquo;s
not some intellectual process. It&rsquo;s not the collecting of
intellectual tidbits that are stimulating, but because they&rsquo;re
never incorporated, promote no change. But, boy, they can sure make you
the life of the party. They can sure create a lot of discussion and a
lot of activity.

A Course In Miracles is not an intellectual process. It&rsquo;s about
changing your mind. More correctly, it&rsquo;s about letting your mind
be changed, because you&rsquo;re accepting a new teacher. And
you&rsquo;re giving your allegiance to a new teacher. And you are
undoing the steps you took away from your Sanity, from your Wholeness,
and from the Joy of Being.

The next section is called:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*The Rationale for Choice*
</div>

You see, it&rsquo;s absolutely essential to make a choice.

You can&rsquo;t just say, &ldquo;God is Love and God will take care of
everything. And I will just flow. I&rsquo;ll just get in the flow. And I
will be in my peace no matter what happens. I will be in my peace no
matter how I misperceive things. It&rsquo;s all God. It&rsquo;s all
God.&rdquo; No! It&rsquo;s not! Your misperceptions are not all God! And
your misperceptions are blinding you to What IS All God. And your
misperceptions about Who and What You Are, are blinding you to the Sane,
Integrated, Singular Experience of What You Are.

&ldquo;Oh, but I much prefer to be open-minded. I much prefer to have a
much broader perspective in which everything is okay, in which I&rsquo;m
not called upon to make judgment about anything, because, of course,
judgment is bad.&rdquo; Well, excuse me. How can you make a choice
without judgment? How can you make a choice between What Works and what
doesn&rsquo;t work without recognizing the difference?

Back to the book.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is a rationale for choice.
</div>

Well, so much for, &ldquo;It&rsquo;s all God!&rdquo; So much for,
&ldquo;Everyone makes-up their own reality. Everyone is experiencing
their own reality and that&rsquo;s life.&rdquo; So much for that.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is a rationale for choice. Only one Teacher KNOWS what your
reality is. If learning that is the PURPOSE of the curriculum, you must
learn it of Him.
</div>

That Teacher.

Whew! Am I really making it too hard? Am I really encouraging you to
want things to be too perfect? I mean none of you in this room are
suffering that much. You&rsquo;re not that miserable. And yet I&rsquo;m
asking you not to be satisfied in your subtle misery. I&rsquo;m asking
you to be as intolerant of it as you would be of the pain you would feel
if someone threw acid in your face.

&ldquo;Oh, but it&rsquo;s not called for! I mean how perfect &hellip;
how perfect do you want me to strive &hellip; how much perfection do you
want me to strive for?&rdquo; I want you not to strive for perfection,
but I want you to be completely willing to allow It, which is already
the Truth about you, to register with you consciously. It doesn&rsquo;t
take struggle or strife, but it takes, for lack of better words,
committed willingness. A willingness without
reservation&mdash;that&rsquo;s a little bit easier to hear.

Willingness without reservation. That you can grasp. Commitment to
willingness sounds like work. But willingness without reservation
expresses exactly the correct meaning of those words. Willingness
without reservation means you paying attention with innocent eyes, with
innocent mind, not introducing anything from your memory into the
Conscious Experience of the moment you&rsquo;re in.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is a rationale for choice. Only one Teacher knows what your
reality is.
</div>

The truth about You.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If learning that is the PURPOSE of the curriculum, you must learn it of
Him. The ego does not KNOW what it is trying to teach.
</div>

The only thing it teaches is what it supposes is true. The only thing it
teaches is what it wants to be true. It is not able to teach What IS
True, because it&rsquo;s a state of mind, you might say, that has
already said, &ldquo;I want to give what is true new definition.&rdquo;
And therefore, everything that it has defined has been a distortion of
Truth. So it doesn&rsquo;t know how to tell the Truth or to teach the
Truth.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego does not know what it is trying to teach. It is trying to teach
you what you are WITHOUT knowing it.
</div>

Without knowing what you Are.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego is expert only in confusion. It does not understand anything
else. As a teacher, then, it is totally confused and totally confusing.
</div>

And let&rsquo;s get a reality-check here. This teacher that is totally
confused and totally confusing is you behind the mask, having become so
familiar with the mask that you think it is what you are, instead of
that which is wearing the mask. And it&rsquo;s in the having forgotten
What You Are that everything that follows is and can only be the
teaching of confusion.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Even if you could disregard the Holy Spirit entirely, which is quite
impossible, you could learn nothing from the ego because the ego knows
nothing.
</div>

Why doesn&rsquo;t the ego know anything? Why does the ego know nothing?
Because its very existence is predicated upon defining All That Is as
something different from What It Is. And in the making of the
definitions and the committed attention it gives to its definitions, it
is ignoring What Everything Is. Therefore, it cannot know What Anything
Is.

When you are committed to your memory, and you operate only from within
the confines of your memory, you cannot know What Anything Is. You
cannot know What Anything Truly Is. Therefore, at the moment,
you&rsquo;re not experiencing anything as It Truly Is, no matter how
peaceful it may be at the moment. And it&rsquo;s your Birthright to be
experiencing everything for What It Is.

And so it becomes my task, and it becomes the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s task,
to get you to pay attention to the apparently irrational idea that
everything you know is wrong, is not valid, and therefore is not truly
valuable to you. And that it is the reason you&rsquo;re not happy. And
it is the reason that you are never free from fear, anxiety, or the
feeling of vulnerability in one way or another.

I don&rsquo;t want you to be experiencing pure misery in order for you
to be willing to change directions. But the less misery you&rsquo;re
experiencing, the more difficult it is for you to accept the idea that
you in this state of relative peace and harmony are still experiencing
Reality from an invalid place that does need to be denied completely,
that does need to be abandoned completely. Because until you annul the
divorce that was 100% divorce, you cannot be available for the 100%
Experience of your Identity and of the Joy that it&rsquo;s your
Birthright to be experiencing.

You might say that I&rsquo;m saying no matter how happy you are right
now, you can&rsquo;t dare to be happy, because your happiness
isn&rsquo;t Real. You could interpret that to mean, &ldquo;Wow! I should
be upset. I should be uneasy. I&rsquo;m so far off the track that I must
be crazy and that is alarming.&rdquo; No. What I&rsquo;m saying is
whatever level of joy and harmony you&rsquo;re experiencing is not
valid. It&rsquo;s only peace and harmony relative to someone
else&rsquo;s chaos and suffering. And I&rsquo;m saying Peace and Harmony
that is Real is your Birthright and is available to you, but you
won&rsquo;t experience it until you go to a different Source than your
memory.

It&rsquo;s that simple. Stop using your memory banks to perceive
everything and to determine whether you&rsquo;re safe or not, whether
you&rsquo;re happy or not. Your memory is a closed system. Your Being is
Infinite. [pause] One more time. Your memory is a closed system. Your
Being is Infinite. Those are the only two teachers you have available to
you. It&rsquo;s simple.

The Course In Miracles is the movement from the teacher that
doesn&rsquo;t really exist to the One that does. And it occurs by
withdrawing your investment of faith in your memory banks, and your
willingness to abandon yourself to an Infinite Paradigm in which
you&rsquo;re not in control, because no control is needed, and in which
you be, not to survive, but to give conscious acknowledgment and
recognition to All That Is Real and to Joy in It.

But you know what? Returning Home, the journey back, will not occur if
you don&rsquo;t know that there&rsquo;s a choice. And it won&rsquo;t
occur unless you make the choice. And unless you make the choice, you
won&rsquo;t abandon what doesn&rsquo;t work and you won&rsquo;t withdraw
your faith and commitment to your memory&mdash;a closed system.

So with that we will end for the day. We&rsquo;ll continue reading from
the Course, but let it be understood that the course is this inner
journey of undoing and really beginning to be in a different way from a
different place in you. In other words, instead of being out from the
mask and costume, you will start being from the standpoint and vantage
point of That Which Is Divinely Real underneath the mask and the
costume. And from there you will do and be, based upon the Way Things
Work, based upon What Is True, because you will know the Truth, instead
of acting on the basis of the mask and the costume and all of the
definitions that you have created about it and about how this presence
behaves and gains credibility and respect and manages to survive because
it&rsquo;s skillful at surviving. You&rsquo;ll abandon all of the
infrastructure of beliefs and ideas that you have built around the mask
and the costume. And I&rsquo;m going to say that you will be from, not a
structure of ideas and thoughts, but from a Movement of Love because
That is what&rsquo;s underneath the mask and the costume.

I love you all.

And I just encourage you to not make this course in miracles, this
journey back, strenuous. The only thing that will make it strenuous will
be waffling back and forth between one teacher and the other. That will
make it strenuous. And it&rsquo;s not necessary.

I will stop for today. But I will never stop.

Okay.

[^1]: T8.1 The Direction of the Curriculum

