---
title: Aug 22, 2004
ref: T8.2 The Rationale for Choice
alink: "/acim/text/08/chap0802/"
---

Good afternoon. Or should I say, &ldquo;Good evening?&rdquo; And welcome
to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the Internet.

We&rsquo;re going to go right into the book. And actually I&rsquo;m
going to start reading a couple of sentences earlier than where I said
so that we have a sense of continuity.	

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego is expert only in confusion. It does not understand anything
else. As a teacher, then, it is totally confused and TOTALLY CONFUSING.
Even if you could disregard the Holy Spirit entirely, which is quite
impossible, you could learn nothing from the ego because the ego KNOWS
nothing.[^1]
</div>

This next line is a very important question.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Is there ANY possible reason for choosing a teacher such as this?
</div>

And intellectually, all of you would say, &ldquo;No. No, there
isn&rsquo;t.&rdquo; And you might even say, &ldquo;I&rsquo;m going to
have to think about that.&rdquo; And already you&rsquo;ve missed the
point, because if you&rsquo;re going to think about it, it means that
you&rsquo;re still delaying turning to that Point of Excellence in you
to learn of It. In other words, you&rsquo;ve still neglected to turn to
the only Teacher worth listening to, and if you haven&rsquo;t done that,
the ego is still being your teacher. It&rsquo;s very black and white.
And because it&rsquo;s very black and white, it&rsquo;s very simple.
There&rsquo;s only one thing you need to do in order to wake up.
There&rsquo;s only one thing you need to do in order to start your
journey Home, and that is change teachers.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Does the total disregard of anything it teaches make anything but sense?
</div>

&ldquo;Well,&rdquo; you say, &ldquo;It makes sense, but I don&rsquo;t
know how to hear the Truth.&rdquo; It&rsquo;s like saying, &ldquo;I
don&rsquo;t know how to swim.&rdquo; Well, one of the best ways to learn
how to swim is to jump in the water, whether you know how to swim or
not. And you&rsquo;ll find that instinct takes over, and within moments,
you will be swimming. In other words, the only way you&rsquo;re going to
be able to hear is if you start listening with commitment to hearing,
not just playing with the idea of listening and hearing. As long as you
think you have an alternative, which is to think for yourself, then you
won&rsquo;t make significant and determined commitment to hearing. You
won&rsquo;t listen fully.

Continuing, and referring to the ego &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Is THIS the teacher to whom a Son of God should turn to find HIMSELF?
The ego has never given you a sensible answer to ANYTHING. Simply on the
grounds of your own experience with the ego&rsquo;s teaching, should not
this alone disqualify it as your future teacher?
</div>

Well, you would probably say, &ldquo;Yes.&rdquo; But the full impact of
the meaning of that question doesn&rsquo;t register with you, as
I&rsquo;ve said before, because you&rsquo;re really doing all right at
the moment. And so you don&rsquo;t say &ldquo;yes&rdquo; with the full
force of conviction that causes you to right now shift gears and start
listening to the Voice for Truth within you, let us say, with the intent
not to act until the action arises from clarity coming from that
Teacher.

&ldquo;Well, you know what? I&rsquo;ll have to do this on a vacation
where I don&rsquo;t have any other demands. And I will have plenty of
time if it takes me 5 or 10 days before I hear anything.&rdquo; You see
how your very thought is a thought of doubt, a thought of quote
&ldquo;it not working&rdquo; unquote, and therefore you better give
yourself a lot of time? And that&rsquo;s the way you&rsquo;ll listen
when the vacation comes that you actually decide to do this. You see?
You haven&rsquo;t jumped into the water yet where the only alternative
you have available to you is to swim now. There&rsquo;s never going to
be a good time to do it. And you can be like Paul was and wait until the
circumstances got very dire and he was halted dead in his tracks with no
option available except to listen, or you can decide that it&rsquo;s
worth it to do it now while things aren&rsquo;t too bad.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Simply on the grounds of your own experience with the ego&rsquo;s
teaching, should not this alone disqualify it as your future teacher?
Yet the ego has done more harm to your learning than this alone.
Learning is joyful if it leads you along your natural path, and
facilitates the development of what you have.
</div>

Or we could say facilitates the uncovering of What You Already Are.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you are taught AGAINST your nature, however, you will LOSE by your
learning because your learning will imprison you.
</div>

Please understand that even if things are going relatively well right
now, you are still in prison. You are still not experiencing your
Birthright of the Joy of recognizing Reality in everything and everyone
around you. And you&rsquo;re making do to the best of your ability while
still ignorant of your Birthright.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your will is IN your nature, and therefore CANNOT go against it.

The ego cannot teach you anything as long as your will is free because
you will not LISTEN to it. It is NOT your will to be imprisoned BECAUSE
your will is free. That is why the ego is the DENIAL of free will. It is
NEVER God Who coerces you because He SHARES His Will with you. His Voice
teaches ONLY His Will, but that is not the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s lesson
because that is what you ARE. The LESSON is &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that the Holy Spirit teaches.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The LESSON is that your will and God&rsquo;s cannot be out of accord
BECAUSE they are one. This is the undoing of EVERYTHING the ego tries to
teach. It is not, then, only the direction of the curriculum which must
be unconflicted, but also the CONTENT.
</div>

Now, I want to back up a little bit. We will say in time&mdash;not in
the book&mdash;in the past I have shared with you that there is no such
thing as free will and that the only right use of will is to choose not
to use it. And yet we&rsquo;re reading here that your will must be free
in order not to be bound by, or fooled by, the teachings of the ego.

Well, let me ask you this. If I have been advising you not to rely upon
your best judgments and your thinking and your reasoning and all of your
learning up to this point, if I have been telling you to be willing to
abandon that in order to go within to the Altar to connect with the Holy
Spirit which is nothing more than your right Mind and to yield to It,
you&rsquo;re going to have an experience that you would call or describe
as abandoning your free will. If you&rsquo;re going to be yielding to
something else, you&rsquo;re going to be abandoning the capacity you
thought you had to function independently. In other words, you will say
you&rsquo;re having an experience of abandoning free will.

It sounds like my teaching is conflicted, but it&rsquo;s not. You
don&rsquo;t know what your will is right now, because you have been
letting the ego teach you. You have been relying upon your best sense of
what you are with no Conscious Experience of What You Really Are. And so
you literally do not know what free will is, even though you think that
you&rsquo;ve been expressing it your whole life.

As long as you are relying upon your own thinking and reasoning, and
basing your actions upon the conclusions you come to, and asserting
yourself on the basis of the conclusions you have come to you, you are
expressing a will that is not only independent from God, but is also
independent from each other. And I am telling you that that is
imprisonment, because you&rsquo;re missing out on what the meaning of
the word &ldquo;Brotherhood&rdquo; is. And you&rsquo;re missing out on
what it means to fit in with the Brotherhood. And you&rsquo;re missing
out on what it means that you are to find your own in another&rsquo;s
good; meaning you&rsquo;re to find your own good in another&rsquo;s
good; that the way to have is to share.

The word &ldquo;we&rdquo; is characteristic of free will, is
characteristic of the experience of free will. But right now your
experience of free will is &ldquo;I, I, I.&rdquo; Therefore, because all
your definitions that you have given to everything were made-up out of
whole cloth, so to speak, rather than your having arrived at the
definitions of What Everything Is from your connectedness with the
Source of every thing, you have likewise given your own definition to
the words &ldquo;free will.&rdquo; And your definition of &ldquo;free
will&rdquo; is as confused and incorrect as the definitions you&rsquo;ve
given to everything else.

That is why I have said the only right use of will is to choose not to
use it. The only thing that can possibly mean to you is that the only
right use of what you&rsquo;re calling &ldquo;free will&rdquo; must be
abandoned, &lsquo;cause you have no sense of, or Conscious Awareness of,
any other will. And you will not be open to and receptive to the
Father&rsquo;s Will until you do abandon reliance upon this cherished
right that you think you have to express free will, which constitutes
your being independent from your Brother&mdash;&ldquo;I, I,
I&rdquo;&mdash;without the experience of &ldquo;We.&rdquo; That is
isolation. Isolation is imprisonment.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego wants to teach you that you want to OPPOSE God&rsquo;s Will.
</div>

And how does it do that? It tells you that there&rsquo;s great value in
expressing your will. And the better you do it, the more respectable you
will be. And the better you do it, the more powerful you will be. And
the better you do it, the more influential you will be. And the better
you do it, the more successful, or wealthy, or whatever, you will be.
All of this, as you know, appeals to your ego, doesn&rsquo;t it? It
piques your curiosity and causes you to pursue your independence, not
only further, but more intently.

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego wants to teach you that you want to OPPOSE God&rsquo;s Will.
This unnatural lesson cannot BE learned, but the ATTEMPT to learn it is
a violation of your own freedom, and makes you afraid of your will
BECAUSE it is free. The Holy Spirit &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; again, which is nothing more than your right Mind &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; opposes ANY imprisoning of the will of a Son of God, KNOWING
that the will of the Son IS the Father&rsquo;s. The Holy Spirit leads
you steadily along the path of freedom&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning back Home along the very path you took away from Home,
undoing the specific steps, acts, thoughts, that you used to establish a
sense of yourself as independent from Truth, independent from Reality,
independent from the Conscious Experience of What Everything Is.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit leads you steadily along the path of freedom, teaching
you how to disregard, or look beyond, EVERYTHING that would hold you
back.
</div>

Now the Truth is that you haven&rsquo;t, none of you have forgotten
Truth completely. But all of the definitions you&rsquo;ve given to
everything, and the great pride you take in being self-reliant, has
caused you not to be able to discern the difference between What Is True
and what you&rsquo;ve made-up. And because you are not able to make the
distinction, it is intelligent for you to devalue everything you know.
Sort of like saying, &ldquo;Okay, Holy Spirit, I&rsquo;m going to bring
every single one of my thoughts, every single one of my ideas, every
single one of my beliefs, every single thing I know, and I&rsquo;m not
going to hold anything back, and I&rsquo;m going to put it all out on
the table for You to sort out. I am going to assume that absolutely
nothing that I would put on the table is worthy of my keeping until You
have said, &lsquo;Here, this is Real. You can have it
back.&rsquo;&rdquo; That&rsquo;s intelligence. And that&rsquo;s what you
have to be willing to do.

You have to be willing to say, &ldquo;Here&rsquo;s everything. I
don&rsquo;t know which of it is Real and which of it I&rsquo;ve made-up.
I&rsquo;m asking You to sort it out for me with me so that I might know
What Is Real And Eternal, and so that I may know what isn&rsquo;t and
release it and become free of the confusion that its presence provides
as to what is real.&rdquo;

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit leads you steadily along the path of freedom, teaching
you how to disregard, or look beyond, EVERYTHING that would hold you
back.
</div>

What a Friend the Holy Spirit is. And what a friendliness Its Intent For
Being is.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
We said before that the Holy Spirit teaches you the difference between
pain and joy.
</div>

I want to take a moment here because this is a very pointed point.

We said before that the Holy Spirit teaches you the difference between
pain and joy.

It allows you to make a distinction between what feels good and what
doesn&rsquo;t feel good. It allows you to make a distinction between
what you want and what you don&rsquo;t want. Why? So that you can make a
choice.

Well, if you&rsquo;re going to make a choice, it means one is going to
be selected and one is going to be rejected. Well, what does that mean
in practical terms? It means that when you&rsquo;re having a rough
experience, you&rsquo;re not going to say, &ldquo;Well, this is just one
of those things for me to have patience with.&rdquo; Or &ldquo;This is
one of those things that is here as a learning experience for me. And,
of course, if it&rsquo;s going to be a learning experience for me,
I&rsquo;m not going to reject it. It must be the Father&rsquo;s Way of
helping me grow.&rdquo; That kind of thinking keeps you bound in the
dream because no distinction is made. And if the distinction is made and
no choice is made, you&rsquo;re still stuck in the illusion.

If you want to Wake up, you&rsquo;ve got to learn the difference, make
the distinction, and then you&rsquo;ve got to make the choice. And then
you have to remain committed to the choice.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the Holy Spirit teaches you the difference between pain and
joy. That is the same as saying that He teaches you the difference
between imprisonment and freedom. YOU cannot make this distinction
WITHOUT Him.
</div>

That&rsquo;s why you must bring everything out on the table for Him to
sort out for you. The ego will tell you that everything on that table is
valuable&mdash;your pet theories, your best judgments, your skills at
defending yourself in a hostile environment. It will tell you that all
of these are treasures; some that were gifts and some that you worked
very hard for, but all of which are contributing to the value of what
you are. You see?

Are you going to listen to this teacher? No. You don&rsquo;t need to
listen to this teacher because you now you know there is another
Teacher. When you didn&rsquo;t know there was another Teacher, there was
nothing you could do. But now you know there&rsquo;s another Teacher.
And now you know that this other Teacher is teaching you the exact
opposite of what your current teacher has been teaching you. And not
only that, you know that this new Teacher teaches you the difference
between imprisonment and freedom.

And I keep coming back to this because it&rsquo;s very subtle, but
it&rsquo;s very pervasive. You say, &ldquo;What you&rsquo;re telling me
sounds like hard work. What you&rsquo;re telling me sounds like
something that may be impossible for me. And you know what? I&rsquo;m
not suffering that much. What I&rsquo;m experiencing really feels like
quite a bit of freedom.&rdquo; That subtle suggestion causes you not to
look clearly at what we&rsquo;re talking about.

It causes you to not be clear in terms of black-and-white about What
Works and what doesn&rsquo;t. It causes you not to look at the fact that
underneath everything that&rsquo;s happening in your life, you&rsquo;re
not really experiencing what you want. You&rsquo;re not really
experiencing the freedom you would like. You&rsquo;re not really
experiencing Joy consistently and continuously and fully. You&rsquo;re
not really experiencing Peace. And when I use the word
&ldquo;Peace,&rdquo; I mean What Peace Really Is, which is a State of
Mind in which there is no experience of vulnerability. You&rsquo;re not
experiencing that. And you know it!

Don&rsquo;t be afraid to look honestly and deeply into yourself in this
way. Because if you will look honestly and deeply into yourself,
you&rsquo;ll realize just how little freedom you&rsquo;re experiencing,
just how little happiness you&rsquo;re experiencing, just how little
invulnerability you&rsquo;re experiencing. And I wager to say that if
you&rsquo;re really honest with yourselves, you find no place in you
that&rsquo;s invulnerable. If you&rsquo;re not experiencing
invulnerability, you are in prison. You are not experiencing freedom.
You&rsquo;re not experiencing your Birthright.

And if you will not be fuzzy and lovey-dovey spiritual in your mind,
&ldquo;God is Love, He will take care of me, and I will abide in the
cozy feeling those words give me,&rdquo; if you don&rsquo;t engage in
that and you take a practical look, you will see that the payoff
you&rsquo;ve been fooling yourself into believing you&rsquo;re getting
has been an emptiness, has been nothing. And when that registers with
you and sinks in, you&rsquo;ll say, &ldquo;Damn it! I&rsquo;m not
putting up with this anymore. I&rsquo;m going to abandon my will.
I&rsquo;m going to abandon what I thought free will was. And my one last
act of will that I&rsquo;m going to engage in is to say, &lsquo;Father,
show me Your Will. I am not going to introduce what I thought was my
will into the mix anymore. I am here, Father, waiting to hear from You.
I am here, Holy Spirit, waiting for your Guidance.&rsquo;&rdquo;

Your last act of will, will be to abandon it, to not use it.
&ldquo;Insanity,&rdquo; you say. No. Because if you will abandon it,
really abandon it, like jumping into the deep end of the pool where
there&rsquo;s no way to get to the side, you will become determined to
do what it takes to hear. And as the Father&rsquo;s Will is revealed to
you, the Father&rsquo;s Will for you is revealed to you, it will also be
revealed to you, as an experience, that that&rsquo;s what you feel, that
that&rsquo;s what you will also. And you will recognize yourself in it.
And you will gladly express it from there. And you will be free.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
YOU cannot make this distinction &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; between imprisonment and freedom &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; WITHOUT Him.
</div>

The Holy Spirit.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
That is because you have taught yourself that imprisonment IS freedom.
</div>

You didn&rsquo;t know you did that.

But if you want to know the Truth, the key to the door of your cell is
the free will that you prize so highly, that you value because it
promises to you that through its use you can achieve anything.
That&rsquo;s the hooker. It says you can achieve and do anything you set
your will to. Wow. What an ego trip. Now, in order to get out of the
cell, you&rsquo;ve got to take your will and put it in the lock and
unlock the door and walk out leaving the key behind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you have taught yourself that imprisonment IS freedom.
Believing them to be the same, how CAN you tell them apart? Can you ask
the part of your mind that taught you to believe they ARE the same to
teach you the DIFFERENCE between them?
</div>

No.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit&rsquo;s teaching takes only ONE direction and has only
ONE goal. His direction is freedom and His goal is God.
</div>

Now, I know I&rsquo;m beating this into the ground, but you need to hear
it over and over again for clarity.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
His direction &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is freedom and His goal is God.
</div>

But the Holy Spirit is nothing more than your right Mind. It&rsquo;s not
something separate from you. It&rsquo;s the very Essence and Wholeness
of You. So your right Mind, your right Mind&rsquo;s teaching takes only
one direction and has only one goal. The goal of your right Mind is
constantly being implemented by it. In other words, the Sanity of You is
constantly implementing it in your awareness to whatever degree
you&rsquo;re willing to stand in receipt of it and embrace it. So, the
Holy Spirit, your right Mind, is intent upon integrating what seems to
have become disintegrated.

And so you, in your tiny sense of yourself, retracing your steps Home,
are not doing it all by yourself against overwhelming odds. You have an
Ally&mdash;your very own active, present Sanity&mdash;which at the
moment you&rsquo;re dissociated from and which you don&rsquo;t
recognize. So I want you to understand that this process is a process of
your very own capital &ldquo;B&rdquo; Being; a Movement of Integration
that is intent upon accomplishing Its Goal. And the marvelous part about
it is that when it&rsquo;s accomplished, your whole trip back Home into
your Sanity will not be able to be attributed to anything else. And you
will feel the Integrity of You in the Movement and, what I&rsquo;m going
to call, the Reawakening. Thus you will not get into the Kingdom of
Heaven on someone else&rsquo;s shoulders. And you will not be where
you&rsquo;re not ready to be.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit&rsquo;s teaching takes only ONE direction and has only
ONE goal. His direction is freedom and His goal is God. Yet he cannot
conceive of God without YOU because it is not God&rsquo;s Will to BE
without you. When you have learned that your will IS God&rsquo;s, you
could no more will to be without Him than He could will to be without
YOU.
</div>

Now here&rsquo;s a wonderfully distracting question; one that challenges
the truth of what&rsquo;s being said, and one that could pique your
curiosity.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you have learned that your will IS God&rsquo;s, you could no more
will to be without Him than He could will to be without YOU.
</div>

And the distracting question is, &ldquo;Well, then how did I will to be
without Him in the first place?&rdquo; And I&rsquo;m telling you it
doesn&rsquo;t matter. Because you are in prison, and it is not your
Birthright to be in prison. And so everything that could possibly be
done needs to be done for you to regain your Sanity. So just accept it.
It doesn&rsquo;t matter how you got in the mess. It matters for you to
get out of it and know how to stay out of it. And so get about the
business of getting out of it.

And don&rsquo;t delay getting out of it by saying, &ldquo;I&rsquo;m not
going to move one inch until you explain to me how I did the impossible
thing of managing to get a divorce from God.&rdquo; The simple fact is
you didn&rsquo;t get a divorce from God. You only got a divorce from God
in your imagination. And waking up is grounding you and getting you out
of your imagination.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you have learned that your will IS God&rsquo;s, you could no more
will to be without Him than He could will to be without YOU. This IS
freedom and this IS joy. Deny yourself this and you ARE denying God His
Kingdom because He created you FOR this. When we said, &ldquo;All power
and glory are yours because the Kingdom is His,&rdquo; this is what we
meant:
</div>

Because the Kingdom is His, because Creation is His, and you are His
Creation, and His Creation is the Extension of All That He Is, then all
power and glory are yours because the Kingdom is His.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; this is what we meant:

The Will of God is without limit, and all power and glory lie within it.
It is boundless in strength and in love and in peace. It has no
boundaries because Its extension is unlimited, and It encompasses all
things because It created all things. By creating all things It made
them part of Itself. YOU are the Will of God because this is how you
were created. Because your Creator creates ONLY like Himself, you ARE
like Him. You are part of Him Who IS all power and glory, and are
therefore as unlimited as He is.

To what else EXCEPT all power and glory can the Holy Spirit appeal to
restore God&rsquo;s Kingdom? His appeal, then, is merely to what the
Kingdom IS, and for its own acknowledgment of what it is. When you
acknowledge this, you bring the acknowledgment automatically to everyone
because you HAVE acknowledged everyone.
</div>

Your vision has become infinite, all-inclusive. And so what you are
aware of, you bring, you share, with everything infinitely.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
By YOUR recognition you awaken THEIRS&hellip;
</div>

And in very practical terms what that means is that by your recognition
of What Is True, you have withdrawn from the mutual agreements that keep
the illusion or the dream going. And in that weakening of the dream, you
contribute to their seeing the Truth.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
By YOUR recognition you awaken THEIRS, and through theirs YOURS is
extended. Awakening runs easily and gladly through the Kingdom, in
answer to the Call of God. This is the natural response of every Son of
God to the Voice of his Creator, because it is the Voice for HIS
creations and for his own extension.
</div>

Well, I hear you saying that when you have &ldquo;Aha&rsquo;s,&rdquo;
when you have light bulbs that go on in your mind where What Is True is
uncovered to you more completely and you share it, the awakening of it
doesn&rsquo;t run easily and gladly through the Kingdom. So what in the
hell does this mean? It sounds very unrelated to real life. Right?

Well, I&rsquo;m going to put it this way. If you would, imagine Creation
as a great circuit board where every Aspect of Creation was a point in
the circuit board, and the circuitry of the circuit board connects every
single point of creation. When Truth is known, when Truth is consciously
experienced, it courses through the circuit board and every single point
on that board receives the impulse.

Now some of those little points on the circuit board are still very
intent on expressing their free will. They are practicing the blocking
of the Conscious Experience of the impulse that&rsquo;s going through
the circuit board, and so they don&rsquo;t feel it, they don&rsquo;t see
it, except perhaps as a slight intrusion on their privacy, which they
reinforce. So, let it be known that whether you see evidence of the good
news running freely through the Brotherhood or not, the impulse has
reached them.

Now, what if 50% of the Brotherhood are engaged in self-will? That means
that 50% of the points on the circuit board are actively blocking the
experience of the Impulse of the Conscious Awareness of Truth that the
other 50% are consciously experiencing. They&rsquo;re blocking it, but
they&rsquo;re still in receipt of it.

Every time you manage to listen and you feel the Impulse of Love and you
extend It, the point you are on the board becomes illuminated. Even if
it&rsquo;s just a little bit initially, it becomes illuminated. And it
means that now, we&rsquo;ll say, 49.999% of the board is less
illuminated. You are contributing to the lessening of the density of the
dream, the lessening of the darkness. So do not let yourself become
discouraged just because these beautiful words seem not to be relevant.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
By YOUR recognition you awaken THEIRS, and through theirs YOURS is
extended. Awakening runs easily and gladly through the Kingdom, in
answer to the Call of God.
</div>

Well, it does run naturally and easy through the Kingdom, so don&rsquo;t
stop. Because I promise you that each step you take lessens the density
of the willfulness that those indulging in self-will have available to
energize. And so, what you&rsquo;re doing counts.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Awakening runs easily and gladly through the Kingdom, in answer to the
Call of God. This is the natural response of every Son of God to the
Voice of his Creator, because it is the Voice for HIS creations and for
his own extension.
</div>

The Father extends and it&rsquo;s called the Son. And the Son feels the
Impulse and extends to his Brothers and Sisters, and in doing so, makes
it his own. Your creations are God&rsquo;s Creations given away with
Love that make what you&rsquo;ve given away that was received from the
Father&rsquo;s, yours. The Father extends Himself to you as You, but
that doesn&rsquo;t make it yours. Until you give It away, you
haven&rsquo;t taken a stand, have you? You haven&rsquo;t declared
yourself.

&ldquo;Well, today, I&rsquo;m going to think for myself, and I&rsquo;m
not going to declare the Father&rsquo;s Will. I&rsquo;m going to declare
mine.&rdquo; So you haven&rsquo;t stood in receipt of What Was Given,
even though it&rsquo;s in your lap to receive. And you give away your
will, your determinations, not realizing that what you&rsquo;re giving
away is nothing.

When you&rsquo;re willing to say, &ldquo;Thy Will, not mine, be
done,&rdquo; and you let yourself stand in receipt of the Gifts of God
and accept Them by passing Them on to your Brothers, They become your
Creations. Not creations that you made-up out of whole cloth, but
God&rsquo;s Creations that you&rsquo;ve made your own by not withholding
Them from your Brother and Sister. And then your Brother and Sister pass
It on. And Infinity is like an incredible Gifting Process that gives
back to God the recognition of What God Is, making His Creation His. And
there is the Singularity.

And in your fitting in, in this way, which violates your current
definition of free will, you experience freedom. And the meaning of the
words, &ldquo;Behold, I make all things new,&rdquo; becomes your
Conscious Experience. And you will no longer seem to be stuck in
repetition, in cycles of life that repeat themselves over and over and
monotonously over again.

You now have grounds for making the choice. And you now have the
encouragement for making the choice. And instead of letting it sound
like a bunch of unnatural hard work, let there be an awakening in you of
a sense of exploration and delight at the discovery of things of great
value for you so that you can proceed with enthusiasm.

I look forward to the day when you will have the full Conscious
Experience of just how much I love you. And I look forward to being with
you next week.

[^1]: T8.2 The Rationale for Choice

