---
title: Sep 5, 2004
ref: "T8.3 The Holy Encounter"
alink: "/acim/text/08/chap0803/"
---

Good afternoon. And welcome to everyone who is joining us on the
Internet.

Before we begin I want to back up just a little bit and reconsider this
statement.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
A meaningful curriculum cannot be inconsistent. If it is planned by two
teachers, each believing in diametrically opposed ideas, it cannot be
integrated. If it is carried out by these two teachers simultaneously,
each one merely INTERFERES with the other. This leads to fluctuation,
but NOT to change.
</div>

And the ultimate point in that discussion was that the necessity is to
choose for one teacher or the other; that the call was for who your
teacher was going to be. And even more specifically, it&rsquo;s
necessary for you to pay attention to whether you&rsquo;re getting what
you want, because if you&rsquo;re not getting what you want, then you
need to stop listening to the teacher who brings you those kinds of
results.

Very often, I hear people say, &ldquo;Well, as long as we&rsquo;re here
in the human condition we have to do this or that. We have to go to
doctors.&rdquo; Or, &ldquo;We have to expect problems.&rdquo; And so on.
And I keep saying this over and over again. There&rsquo;s only one thing
available to you for you to experience&mdash;Reality. There is only one
thing going on&mdash;the Kingdom of Heaven. It really is necessary for
you to get this point under your belt and into your mind.

Because there&rsquo;s only one thing going on, there&rsquo;s only one
thing for either of the two teachers to speak about, to teach about. The
Holy Spirit teaches about the Kingdom of Heaven and illuminates it to
you. The ego, the voice for fear, teaches about the Kingdom of Heaven
and calls it the world, the human condition, a physical manifestation of
a big bang, evolution, and so on. But both teachers are talking about
the same thing.

Depending upon which teacher you choose to listen to, you will have
completely opposite experiences. But the opposite experiences will be
here in the middle of the Kingdom of Heaven and will be happy, pleasant,
fulfilling, or miserable, deteriorating, chance-filled experiences of
the Kingdom of Heaven. You are not here in the human condition. You were
not born into the human condition. You are not a Spirit that was born
into a physical experience. You are the Christ uninterruptedly,
unchangeably, listening to one or the other of the two teachers, and
experiencing the Kingdom of Heaven accordingly.

I keep reminding you that each one of you right now is the Christ, is
the Direct Expression and Embodiment of God right here, right now, in
the middle of the Kingdom of Heaven. I keep telling this to you because
it&rsquo;s so easy for you to just slip back into what I&rsquo;m going
to call a materialistic assessment of the Kingdom of Heaven. You slip
back into your habit of perception, rather than being conscious with
innocent attention&mdash;meaning attention free of memory&mdash;to the
one and only thing there is to experience.

Now, what causes you to see the Kingdom of Heaven as a material world
and the human condition are the mutual agreements that you have all made
with each other and the definitions that were given by the voice for
fear. You need to challenge these. And you especially need to challenge
them when you are dealing with mutually-agreed-upon definitions that
have become institutionalized&mdash;health care and all of the concepts
associated with health care&mdash;that are absolutely based upon the
belief that you exist in a human condition in a material world; [these
definitions] absolutely blind you to your opportunity to experience
health.

Oh, I know. Wonderful things are being done. And I&rsquo;m not
challenging the wonderful things that are being done that make those of
you who are experiencing limitations &hellip; that are providing those
of you who are experiencing limitations a better experience. But God
isn&rsquo;t in the picture anywhere. It&rsquo;s not part of the theory.
It&rsquo;s not part of the definition of you. And therefore, your
association with institutionalized healthcare concepts, definitions and
mutual agreements do not lead to correction, do not lead to healing, do
not lead to the eradication of what? The liability to be ill. And you
must be awake enough to not just treat the medical profession as though
it&rsquo;s &ldquo;God,&rdquo; even though it speaks with the
&ldquo;authority of God.&rdquo;

There are, of course, other institutionalized areas of mutual
agreements. And what I want to point out to you today is that if
you&rsquo;re going to break the old habits, you&rsquo;re going to have
to start disagreeing with the institutionalized concepts and agreed-upon
definitions.

You tell me if this wouldn&rsquo;t be an improvement over the current
situation. You go into a physician and have an exam. He gets the results
back. He comes out and he says, &ldquo;Mr. Jones, it is obvious that you
are conflicted in your thinking. There is obvious evidence of it here.
And you need to go home and give this your attention so that the
Visibility and Tangibility of your Individuality no longer reflects this
conflict in you. You must pay attention to what you are blindly
believing, whatever it is. And you must ask the Holy Spirit to help you
see what it is so that you can set it aside. At the present time, the
situation does not call for intervention from me, but it does call for
correction from you.&rdquo; Wouldn&rsquo;t that be incredibly marvelous?
It would be closer to the Truth.

I&rsquo;m not telling any of you not to go to a physician, or not to
have a physical exam, or not to get a medical opinion. But I am saying
this: that the teacher that physicians are allowing to teach them is not
the teacher you have chosen if you are on the path of Awakening. And you
must understand that if you go to them, you are going to get assessments
that do not express the Truth About You that will heal. And if you try
to honor the physician and honor the Truth, you&rsquo;re going to have
conflict. You will have fluctuation. But you won&rsquo;t have change.
Who is your teacher going to be?

Now if you&rsquo;re going to go to a physician, and you&rsquo;re going
to value and honor what the physician says, understand who the teacher
is that is finding expression through the physician&rsquo;s words, and
know which teacher you are choosing to honor. Do it clearly. Do it
honestly with yourself, and make a choice, because you do not want to
introduce fluctuation without change.

If you go to the other Teacher, the Holy Spirit is not going to speak to
you of death. The Holy Spirit is going to speak to you of Who You
Are&mdash;the present Direct Expression of God, the Christ, using his
mind well or poorly&mdash;and will address the need to change your mind
so that you are using your mind well. And so that you are choosing for
your Peace so that you have available to you an Experience of
Singularity, instead of conflict, which is naturally going to find
expression in the Visibility and Tangibility of You called body as
unconflicted functions or healing.

You can&rsquo;t operate from both standpoints simultaneously. Now that
might be hard to take, but it&rsquo;s the Truth. And so what do I
suggest? I suggest that you not wait until a crisis to make the choice.
I encourage you to deal with the cold that you think is coming on, or
the minor symptoms of discomfort, and make your choice of whether or not
you&rsquo;re going to listen to the Holy Spirit within you, or whether
you&rsquo;re going to listen to yourself.

You&rsquo;re not going to go to the doctor for a cold, but you know
what? You are going to listen to your prior education which you&rsquo;ve
gotten through advertising. Mmm. &ldquo;Get ready for the summer
colds.&rdquo; Mmm. &ldquo;Get ready for the winter colds. Take this
medicine. Take that medicine.&rdquo; And you think, &ldquo;Well, since
I&rsquo;m here in the human condition, what can I expect? Oh, I can
expect winter colds and summer colds and hay fever and asthma, and, you
know, after all, I&rsquo;m in the human condition. But you know what?
While I&rsquo;m in the human condition, I&rsquo;m sure enjoying reading
about the Truth. And, boy, oh boy, does it stimulate my curiosity and
interest. And it really gives me a neat high. And it&rsquo;s so
comforting.&rdquo; Well, bullshit on comfort. If you&rsquo;re not making
the choice between the two teachers, and you&rsquo;re trying to listen
to both of them and be uncommitted to either one of them and feel good,
you&rsquo;re not getting anywhere. Nothing is happening. No change is
happening. Fluctuation is. No change.

Your body is the Visibility and Tangibility of your Individuality. Your
body is not matter. It is the Substance which is Spirit. It is
constituted of Living Love arising out of the Singularity of the Peace
of God. If you listen to the voice for fear, you&rsquo;re going to be in
turmoil. You&rsquo;re going to abandon your Peace. The result will be
that you abandon Singularity and you embrace confusing, opposing
dynamics. As long as you are choosing for that teacher, you&rsquo;re
going to have evidence of the choice. Your perception is going to be
confused as well. But what&rsquo;s your confusion about? It&rsquo;s
about the only thing going on&mdash;Reality, the Kingdom of Heaven.
Because whether it&rsquo;s the voice for fear, or the Voice for Truth,
the only thing they have to express anything about is the only thing
available&mdash;the Kingdom of Heaven.

If necessity, let us say injury or accident puts you in a position of
needing physical correction, the sewing up of a wound, a cut, or
whatever, realize that when you go into the medical environment, you
don&rsquo;t have to see it as a medical environment, because all there
is to anything happening there is the Kingdom of Heaven seen clearly or
not clearly. But understand that those who are there who will be
treating you and expecting you to honor their decisions are not
listening to the Voice for Truth. They&rsquo;re listening to their best
judgments based upon a faulty premise that you&rsquo;re just a physical
organism, a piece of meat, in so many words, that has no permanence to
it, that isn&rsquo;t eternal because it has nothing to do with an
Eternal Source that creates only like Itself. And so you move into that
environment rendering unto Caesar the things that are Caesar&rsquo;s,
and rendering unto God the things that are God. In other words, you go
in being very alert, so that your primary allegiance is with the Voice
for Truth because it will tell you what will lead to correction,
redemption&mdash;not just making the best of a bad situation.

The physicians will talk to you about making the best of a bad situation
and will say there&rsquo;s nothing more you can expect. Those are words
that are said very often. And those words, if you are honoring the
source, will cause you to forget that you have an option that goes
beyond making the best of a bad situation. And you will go to sleep and
you will forget to expect a miracle. So you must be very alert so that
you don&rsquo;t buy into the belief system of the ones who are perhaps
providing you with very beneficial help.

If I may put it this way, every single one of you can go and learn
transcendental meditation, but it&rsquo;s not necessary for you to adopt
the whole thought system behind it. So you can go and you can have a
wound stitched up, or a bone set, or something removed that needs to be
removed under the circumstances, but you do not have to buy the whole
attitude and physical, medical infrastructure of beliefs associated with
it. You can remain joined with the Holy Spirit and meet the immediate
need, and leave without ever shifting your allegiance to the
institutionalized practice of the belief of a universe in which God has
nothing to do with it.

This is just an example, but it&rsquo;s a very practical rendering of
the meaning of the fact that if you employ both teachers simultaneously,
there will be no change. There will be fluctuation. There will be no
correction.

Everything the Holy Spirit tells you flies right in the face of every
single mutually-agreed-upon definition that arose out of your decision
to think for yourself and to be independent of your Source. Every single
one of those mutually-agreed-upon definitions needs to be challenged.
Now, this doesn&rsquo;t have to be a huge battle or war. It&rsquo;s as
I&rsquo;ve said before. You look at the glass, or the mug of water, and
you say, &ldquo;What is the more of What God Is Being here that
I&rsquo;m not presently seeing?&rdquo; That&rsquo;s how you challenge
your very definite beliefs about a glass mug of water. And you have
them, but there&rsquo;s more there.

So you start being curious. You say, &ldquo;Father,&rdquo; or you say,
&ldquo;Holy Spirit, what&rsquo;s the more of What God Is Being there
that I&rsquo;m not yet seeing?&rdquo; When you ask that question,
you&rsquo;re withdrawing your allegiance from your current best
definitions of it, thereby weakening their control, you might say; the
control they seem to have by virtue of the commitment you&rsquo;re
giving to them. When you say, &ldquo;What&rsquo;s the more of What God
Is Being there?&rdquo; you&rsquo;re withdrawing your investment of trust
in what you already think it is.

When you stand in front of a mirror looking at yourself and you say,
&ldquo;What is the more of What God Is Being right there where I see
myself?&rdquo;, you are abandoning whatever sure-nesses you have about
what you&rsquo;re seeing. And you open the door for insight, for
revelation. That&rsquo;s the way you challenge the status quo. You
don&rsquo;t go out to that teacher and say, &ldquo;You&rsquo;re a
liar!&rdquo; You turn your attention away from that teacher to the other
Teacher and express curiosity. You say, &ldquo;I want to know What The
Truth Is here. I don&rsquo;t care what the physician&rsquo;s assessment
was, or what his prognosis was, because whatever it was, it didn&rsquo;t
include what the Holy Spirit has to say. It didn&rsquo;t include the
fact that there is God that is omnipotent and more powerful, you might
say, than the effects of any accident, or injury, or illness.
What&rsquo;s the more of What God Is Being right here than what
I&rsquo;m seeing? And I&rsquo;m more interested in knowing the Truth of
that than I am what anybody else has come up with as an explanation or a
definition.&rdquo;

You see, it is about making choices. It&rsquo;s not about, &ldquo;Ah!
It&rsquo;s all God. Anything goes.&rdquo; It isn&rsquo;t. As long as you
are not awake, there&rsquo;s a choice to be made between waking up or
making further commitment to being asleep. And remember that, although
it calls upon you to make a choice, and then back it up with your
commitment, causing you to be proactive, this is pleasurable.
Don&rsquo;t make it work. Don&rsquo;t make it laborious. Don&rsquo;t
conceive of it as being that way. Because the moment you genuinely say,
&ldquo;What is the Truth here? What is the more of What God Is Being
here than what I&rsquo;m seeing?&rdquo;, the more of What God Is Being
right there will be revealed to you and that is pleasurable. That is a
joyful experience. To be experiencing more enlightenment and less
endarkenment is a pleasurable experience. Just because I&rsquo;m saying,
&ldquo;Don&rsquo;t be wishy-washy about it. Be direct about it. Be firm
about it. Be decisive about it,&rdquo; doesn&rsquo;t mean get tense
about it. It really just means be very clear.

Okay. Let&rsquo;s go to the book. Okay. This next section is called:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*The Holy Encounter*[^1]

Glory be to God in the highest, and to you because He has so willed it.
Ask and it shall be given you because it has already BEEN given.
</div>

Now are you the Sons and Daughters of God. You&rsquo;re neither behind
the Point of Perfection nor advancing toward it; you&rsquo;re at that
Point and must understand or experience yourself therefrom.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Ask for light and learn that you are light. If you want understanding
and enlightenment you WILL learn it&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; ah. If you want it, you will learn it. If you want to listen to
the voice for fear, that&rsquo;s what you&rsquo;ll learn&mdash;fear. If
you want the Truth, that&rsquo;s what you will learn, because
that&rsquo;s where you&rsquo;re giving your undivided, unconflicted
attention. It&rsquo;s automatic. You&rsquo;re all getting exactly what
you&rsquo;re asking for. What we&rsquo;re bringing out here is the way
for you to ask unconflicted questions from unconflicted premises. And
when I say, &ldquo;unconflicted premises,&rdquo; I mean a place in you
where you&rsquo;re not sitting on the fence.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you want understanding and enlightenment you will learn it, because
your will to learn it is your decision to listen to the Teacher Who
KNOWS of light, and can therefore TEACH it to you. There is no limit on
your learning because there is no limit on your MINDS. There is no limit
on His will to teach because He was created TO teach.
</div>

Okay, here we go again. When you decided to be an independent thinker,
an independent agent, an independent authorizer, and you forgot Who You
Were because you blocked your Father from your sight and therefore lost
your Identity, you stopped being conscious of What You Are. But because
What You Are can&rsquo;t change, it remained and got a new name. The
part of you that you disowned became the Holy Spirit, your right Mind.
And as I&rsquo;ve said many times, the Holy Spirit is your Real Identity
held in trust while you dally with the ego, a different sense of
yourself, an independent sense of yourself.

Obviously, your right Mind now has been put in the capacity of being
that which will reawaken you, provide you with the fuller experience of
What You Are until you&rsquo;re so yielding that you&rsquo;ll let in the
fullest experience of What You Are. And so it exists solely for the
purpose of returning your Sanity to you. And so it knows how to do it
perfectly. Why? Because at the bottom line, even in the middle of your
dissociated sense of yourself, you are Whole.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is no limit on His will to teach because He was created to teach.
KNOWING His function perfectly He wills to fulfill it perfectly, because
that is His joy and YOURS.
</div>

Now, why does it say &ldquo;and yours&rdquo;? Because the Holy Spirit is
nothing more than your right Mind. And for you to come back into your
right Mind at the hand of the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s teaching is therefore
the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s Joy and yours, because in Whollizing you it
brings you back into the Conscious Experience of your Wholeness, of the
Ultimate of You.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To fulfill the Will of God perfectly is the only joy and peace that can
be fully known because it is the only function that can be fully
experienceD. When this is accomplished, then, there IS no other
experience. Yet the WISH for other experience will block its
accomplishment because God&rsquo;s Will cannot be forced upon you, being
an experience of total WILLINGNESS.
</div>

God&rsquo;s Will is an Extension. It&rsquo;s a Gift. It&rsquo;s the
giving of What God Is to What God Is Being. God&rsquo;s Will is not a
command. God&rsquo;s Will is a Conscious Expression of Creativity, the
motive of which is Love. It&rsquo;s like God letting out a sigh of
pleasure, making a sound of pleasure. And in that sound of pleasure,
worlds are formed. You were formed. You are being formed constantly.
That&rsquo;s not an act of will. That&rsquo;s not a command.
That&rsquo;s not a directive. It&rsquo;s an Experience of Joy and Bliss
from which spills forth Creation.

Now, if, as His Creation, you have all decided to experiment with being
divorced from Him and having a little fun at pretending that
you&rsquo;re independent and creating things on your own, and you forget
Who You Are, and you determine to make things happen by sheer acts of
will on your part, which is the way you live your lives, then you are
not reflecting God&rsquo;s Will which is a willingness. It&rsquo;s a
Gift of Love.

And since you have become committed to a lifestyle, you might say, of
being assertive and authoritative and commanding things into existence
by acts of will, coming Home seems difficult because you have to
re-embrace willingness. And you have to abandon the hit you got, or that
you thought you were getting, from asserting yourself to make things
happen. So you have to abandon something that you have come to think of
as being very valuable, if not essential, to being successful, or to
surviving. And that&rsquo;s why it doesn&rsquo;t feel natural to you to
yield, to say, &ldquo;Thy Will be done, Father. What is Your Will? I
prefer to know what Your Will is more than I do what my will is.&rdquo;
Of course, when you go to the doctor and the doctor gives you his
prognosis, then it&rsquo;s easy for you to say, &ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;d
rather know what Your Will is than what the doctor said!&rdquo;

You want to know what the Father&rsquo;s Will is because it&rsquo;s so
much more than anything you through a puny act of will on your own can
bring forth. And the most significant part of the more that you would
experience will be your Peace and the Experience of Invulnerability that
sees nothing in any form that could or would challenge it. An
Invulnerability that doesn&rsquo;t protect you from anything, but an
Invulnerability which is the absence of anything that one would need
protection against.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To fulfill the Will of God perfectly is the only joy and peace that can
be fully known because it is the only function that can be fully
experienceD. When this is accomplished, then, there IS no other
experience. Yet the WISH for other experience will block its
accomplishment because God&rsquo;s Will cannot be forced upon you, being
an experience of total WILLINGNESS. The Holy Spirit knows how to teach
this, but you do not. That is why you need Him and why God GAVE Him to
you. Only HIS teaching will release your will to God&rsquo;s, uniting it
with His &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; God&rsquo;s &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; power and glory, and establishing them &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; as YOURS.
</div>

Why? Because you are His Son or Daughter. You are His Expression. And in
the remembering of God as your Father, your experience of your Identity
returns to you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You share them as God shares them because this is the natural outcome of
their being.
</div>

Now listen to this.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Will of the Father and of the Son are One together &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and these are the key words.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; by their extension.
</div>

It&rsquo;s one thing to think the Truth. It&rsquo;s one thing to relish
the True Meaning of Love. It&rsquo;s another thing to embody them. They
say, &ldquo;Put your money where your mouth is.&rdquo; Well, I&rsquo;m
saying put your mouth where your heart is so that you give evidence of
what you love in your actions. That&rsquo;s the extension. And until
it&rsquo;s extended, you haven&rsquo;t stood up and been counted. You
haven&rsquo;t declared yourself. You&rsquo;re a closet Christ. Nobody
will ever know it except you. And, oh, how you love to contemplate What
You Are Truly in your closet. It&rsquo;s hypocrisy. It&rsquo;s a bunch
of things. But most of all it&rsquo;s you not doing what will make the
Truth true for you. Because until you extend it, until you give it, you
don&rsquo;t have it. And neither does anyone else.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Will of the Father and of the Son are One together by their
extension. Their extension is the RESULT of their Oneness, holding their
unity together by extending their JOINT Will.
</div>

Now we are talking about the real meaning of &ldquo;being co-creators
with God.&rdquo; We are not talking about your independent will moving
in consonance or harmony with the Father&rsquo;s Will, so that there are
two things moving in harmony with each other. We&rsquo;re talking about
one thing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Will of the Father and of the Son are One together by their
extension. Their extension is the RESULT of their Oneness, holding their
unity together by extending their JOINT Will. This is perfect creation
by the perfectly created in union with the Perfect Creator. The Father
MUST give fatherhood to His Son because His Own Fatherhood must be
extended outward. You who belong in God have the holy function of
extending His Fatherhood by placing NO limits upon It.
</div>

And I&rsquo;ve said before, when you let yourself be infilled with the
Father&rsquo;s Love, it is such an exquisite and wonderful experience
that it overflows, it bubbles over, and you couldn&rsquo;t hold it back
if you wanted to. You give it away out of sheer Joy and an inability to
say, &ldquo;I&rsquo;m going to give it there, but not here. I&rsquo;m
going to give it a lot there, and medium here.&rdquo; The concept
can&rsquo;t even enter your mind because the influx and the overflow is
so spontaneous.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Let the Holy Spirit teach you HOW to do this, for you will know what it
means of God Himself.
</div>

But you&rsquo;re not going to have the experience until you choose who
your teacher is going to be, and give your committed, full attention to
that Teacher. But the moment you do that, the Movement will begin. As
long as you&rsquo;re listening to two teachers, all you get is
fluctuation. &ldquo;Oh, today is a little better than yesterday, but who
knows what tomorrow will bring, you know. But, generally speaking,
I&rsquo;m feeling better. Generally speaking, things are going pretty
well. I can&rsquo;t complain.&rdquo; You get fluctuation, but not
change.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you meet anyone, remember it is a holy encounter.
</div>

Well it&rsquo;s not going to look like it unless you are encountering
your Brother with the Teacher who can remind you of Who You Are and Who
Your Brother Really Is. And if you&rsquo;re not listening to that
Teacher, and you&rsquo;re listening to the other teacher, you&rsquo;re
not going to know Who Your Brother Is. You&rsquo;re going to know who he
has become defined as, not only by his associates and yours&mdash;your
associates who know him&mdash;but also by yourself. And ultimately it
will be a conglomeration of everyone&rsquo;s opinions that you have
adopted as your definition of him. And that will be a holy encounter
that will be pure misery for you.

All encounters are holy encounters, just like the only thing for the two
teachers to teach about is one thing&mdash;the Kingdom of Heaven. Every
encounter is a holy encounter, but if you&rsquo;re listening to the
teacher for fear, the voice for fear, you are not going to feel the
holiness of the encounter. And you will not be a presence which will
transform any ignorances that still may be prevailing in your mind, or
your Brother&rsquo;s mind.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As you see him you will see yourself. As you treat him you will treat
yourself. As you think of him you will think of yourself.
</div>

And we can reverse this. As you treat yourself, you will treat him. As
you think of yourself, you will think of him.

Well, if you are being informed about yourself by the Holy Spirit, you
will naturally know that What Is True About You is true about your
Brother. And it won&rsquo;t be an intellectual head trip. It will be a
heart experience, because when you let the Holy Spirit speak to you,
when you let the Holy Spirit in, you have an Experience of Innocence;
not a thought of innocence, but an Experience of Innocence that is
indisputable. At first, it will be amazing to you, but nevertheless,
indisputable. Just a simple, pure, utter Truth. And in that realization
about you, you will know that it&rsquo;s true about your Brother, anyone
you come in contact with. And when that&rsquo;s your frame of reference,
that&rsquo;s the way you will behave toward your Brother. You will
extend it, and in extending it, make it true for you. Make it true for
you because you have dared to embody it by expressing it, by extending
it, in the treatment you give, or that you give your Brother.

Could you turn those lights on?

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Never forget this, for in him you will find yourself or lose sight of
yourself. Whenever two Sons of God meet, they are given another chance
at salvation. Do not leave anyone without giving salvation TO him, and
receiving it yourself.
</div>

Until you give it, you can&rsquo;t have it. Until you give it, you
haven&rsquo;t embodied it. You haven&rsquo;t stood up and been counted.
You haven&rsquo;t come out of the closet yet.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Do not leave anyone without giving salvation TO him, and receiving it
yourself. For I am always there with you, in remembrance of YOU.
</div>

Give to your Brothers what I give to you.

You don&rsquo;t always hear what I say. Sometimes you hear what I say
and you tuck it away for future reference. And sometimes you embrace it
and dare to embody it and grow, or change, or experience a miracle. How
you respond makes no difference to me in terms of my willingness to
ongoingly, interminably extend it to you. And I don&rsquo;t feel
frustrated because I&rsquo;m not employing an act of will in extending
it to you. It&rsquo;s much more satisfying to extend it, and by
extending it, embody it. And by embodying it, have the experience of Who
I Truly Am. You see?

That is where we will stop reading.

As you go through this next week, let there be a willingness to want to
see the more of What God Is Being right there in front of you, no matter
what, what is in front of you looks like to you, or is determined by you
to be based upon your prior definitions. Let there be a willingness to
be from a Place of Excellence in you that you don&rsquo;t normally, or
certainly not habitually, come from. And let there be a desire and a
willingness to not cover over your Christhood, your Identity as the
Direct Expression (the Son or Daughter) of God whose Nature is Love,
whose Value is Truth.

Just let there be a willingness, enough of a willingness that perhaps
throughout the majority of your day, you might ongoingly be aware of
your desire to look and see with innocent eyes. Because in doing that,
it will constitute a more consistent choice of who your teacher will be.
And in making that choice more consistently, you will find yourself less
and less subject to institutionalized bodies of concepts and mutual
agreements that seem to function as though they were &ldquo;God&rdquo;
and keep you in the dark. It portends to be a marvelous week if you do
that.

And I look forward to being with all of you next week. Thank You.

[^1]: T8.3 The Holy Encounter

