---
title: Sep 19, 2004
ref: "T8.4 The Light of the World"
alink: "/acim/text/08/chap0804/"
---

Good afternoon. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet, as well.

Let&rsquo;s ask this question, &ldquo;What is the Purpose of
Being?&rdquo; Another way we could ask that is, &ldquo;What is the
Intent of Being?&rdquo; Or, &ldquo;What is Being, the State of Being,
determined to be?&rdquo; Very simply, the Purpose of Being is to be. Not
to be something, but to be. The intent to be is the meaning of the word
&ldquo;will.&rdquo; Being, with a capital &ldquo;B&rdquo;, is another
word for God. Now what is Being determined to be? Itself and nothing
else. That&rsquo;s why Being is a State of Singularity.

Fundamentally, Being is Mind. Being is the Conscious Experience of
Being. Or you could say existing is the Conscious Experience of Being.
That&rsquo;s what God is&mdash;Infinite Mind in the act of being aware
of Itself, observing the movements and characteristics of What Mind Is.
And because Mind is Singular, it &hellip; just a moment &hellip; its
movement is, as I&rsquo;ve said before, the recognition of What It Is
Infinitely. And it looks like this, and more.

The Movement of Mind is a Movement of Ideas. In other words, the State
of Being Conscious is the Movement of Ideas recognized as Oneself by the
Mind that is moving, which is God. All That God Is, is embodied in every
single Idea that God is conscious of in the act of recognizing the
Movement of His Being, which is the Movement of Mind. But remember, the
Intent To Be is the meaning of the word &ldquo;will.&rdquo; And it is
the Intent To Be Which God Is that, for lack of better words, results in
the Conscious Experience Of Being. In other words, Creation.

Now, you are the Expression of God, and you embody all that God is. And
so everything that I&rsquo;ve just described about God is a description
of you. Now I&rsquo;m saying this because it&rsquo;s very easy to
misunderstand the meaning of the word &ldquo;will.&rdquo; You have
learned recently that you must have free will, that you do have free
will. And you think you do have free will. And you do think that you
have always been exercising it, and that you have even been developing
greater skill at exercising free will.

Will is another word for your Purpose for Being; not your personal,
private purpose for being, but the Purpose that is already embodied in
the fact that you are conscious and conscious of everything. Your will
is already in play before you ever had a thought to exercise it. The
only reason the words &ldquo;free will&rdquo; exist to express something
is because in the process of your getting a divorce from your Father and
deciding to be independent, an independent authorizer, an independent
asserter of authority, you moved into a private, separated sense of self
separated from the fundamental State of Being that is your natural State
of Being. And you didn&rsquo;t then begin to express free will. You
began to express self-will. And there is a difference. You began to
express a will that was representing this independent self that you
created for yourself by separating from the Father.

Now the interesting thing is that self-will has only one function, and
that is to assert itself on its behalf only against that which it just
got a divorce from. Self-will is an assertion of independent
willfulness. And so actually self-will is, and always has been, a
defense against God and a defense against the Way Things Work, a defense
against your Birthright. And it has become a constant act that has kept
you so far permanently unconscious of your Birthright, and permanently
unable to cooperate with and flow with the Purpose of Being, the Kingdom
of Heaven, Reality. This is important to understand.

As you go through your day and you are defending yourself against the
events of your day, or the people in your day, on your behalf in order
to survive, you are in a constant state of defense against the Conscious
Experience of Reality, a defense against the Conscious Experience of
What You Really Are, what your Real Identity is.

You don&rsquo;t have a will. You, by being, are Will. Which means that
you are the Presence of a Purpose, an Intent, which is To Be. To be
what? To be conscious. To be conscious of what? Reality&mdash;and not a
figment of your imaginations. So keep this in mind, because in the
process of waking up, you are not abandoning free will, you are
abandoning self-will.

Do you see that if you are practicing self-will, which is a denial of
What You Truly Are and a denial of the Father which is the Source of
your Being, and that the exercise of self-will keeps you unconscious of
what your Real Will is, then self-will, your self-will is not a practice
of free will. Your will is not free. The Will that is the Intent To Be
is not free in you to be fully experienced as the uninhibited capacity
to experience Reality As It Truly Is. And so, when you think of
self-will as an expression of free will, you are confused and you have
no reason to challenge the practice of self-will. But if you can see
that the practice of self-will is itself not free at all because your
Real Will isn&rsquo;t available to you, then you will have justification
for beginning to invalidate it and look beyond it to discover your Will
which is inseparable and not different from the Father&rsquo;s Will.
They are one!

Your Will is not there to establish your freedom. Your Will is not there
to govern your experience. Your Will is not there to improve your
experience, or to build a better defense. Your Will is there as the
Intent To Be Conscious of Reality without anything present to blur it,
without anything present to distort it by virtue of being that which is
at odds with Reality, inserting its own personal interpretation of
Reality in place of Reality. This is important to understand in light of
what we&rsquo;re going to be reading about today.

And the heading is:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*The Light of the World*[^1]
</div>

Right off the bat you might jump to the conclusion, and correctly, that
the practice of self-will dims your Light.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If God&rsquo;s Will for you is complete peace and joy, unless you
experience ONLY this you must be refusing to ACKNOWLEDGE His Will.
</div>

Well, as I&rsquo;ve just said, the only way you refuse to acknowledge
His Will is by valuing and honoring and practicing self-will, which is a
denial of His Will because it&rsquo;s an assertion of a willfulness that
you think you have to have your own original interpretations and
perceptions of the only thing there is to experience&mdash;Reality or
the Kingdom of Heaven.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
His Will does not vacillate, being changeless forever. When you are not
at peace, it can only be because you do not believe you ARE in Him. Yet
He is all in all. His peace is complete, and you MUST be included in it.
His laws govern you because they govern EVERYTHING. You cannot exempt
yourself from His laws, although you can disobey them.
</div>

Well, how do you disobey them? By having your own point of view and
saying, &ldquo;I prefer this point of view to Yours, Father.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet if you do&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; disobey them &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and ONLY if you do, you WILL feel lonely and helpless because
you are denying yourself everything.

I am come as a light into a world that DOES deny itself everything.
</div>

Well, let&rsquo;s be careful here. For a clearer understanding of that
statement, it could read:

&ldquo;I am come as a Light into a mind that does deny itself
everything. I am come as a Light into a frame of mind that does deny
itself everything. I am come as a Light into a set of perceptions that
cause Reality not to be seen As It Is.&rdquo; It isn&rsquo;t saying that
I am come as a Light into a material world of planets and stars and
universes. That is not its meaning.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I am come as a light into a world that DOES deny itself everything. It
does this simply by dissociating itself &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; getting a divorce &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; dissociating itself FROM everything. It is therefore an
illusion of isolation&hellip;
</div>

Important point. No matter how imaginative you get, you can&rsquo;t
create a real isolation. You can only create for yourself an illusion of
isolation.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is therefore an illusion of isolation, maintained by fear of the same
loneliness which IS its illusion. I have told you that I am with you
always, even to the end of the world.
</div>

Well, even to the end of the frame of mind that you&rsquo;re caught in
by virtue of valuing and practicing and exercising self-will that is
itself the denial of your capacity to see everything As It Truly Is. I
have told you that I am with you always, even to the end of the world in
quotes &ldquo;that you made-up&rdquo; unquote. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
That is WHY I am the light of the world.
{: .omit}

If I am with you in the loneliness of the world, THE LONELINESS IS GONE.
You CANNOT maintain the illusion of loneliness if you are NOT alone. My
purpose, then, IS to overcome the world.
</div>

In the book it&rsquo;s followed by a period, but I&rsquo;m going to say
it this way. My purpose then is to overcome the world you made-up.
Where? In your mind! I am coming in your mind to overcome the world you
made-up in your mind that you are holding between you and What Creation
Really Is which causes you to be unable to experience Creation As It
Really Is.

What is Creation As It Really Is? It&rsquo;s Visibility and Tangibility,
or the Conscious Experience of the Will of God, the Purpose of Being,
successfully Being. Your Will is the Intent to see and experience
everything as It Truly Is, because everything as It Truly Is, is the
Visibility and Tangibility of your Will, because your Will and the
Father&rsquo;s Will are one and the same. Not two cooperating wills. Not
two wills in perfect harmony with each other. They are one and the same.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
My purpose, then, IS to overcome the world. I do not attack it, but my
light must dispel it because of what it IS.

Light does not attack darkness, but it DOES shine it away. If my light
goes with you everywhere, YOU shine it away WITH me.
</div>

Well, as you know, we&rsquo;ve been talking it seems like for ages about
breaking your isolation and that the way for you to break your isolation
is to be willing to say, &ldquo;Help,&rdquo; to reach beyond &hellip; to
reach beyond the boundary of your self-will, and to reach beyond the
boundary of your limited definition of yourself, to reach beyond the
limits of the capacity you have said you have and which you insist on
functioning within.

When you break the isolation and let in the Holy Spirit, or Me, or the
Father, you have joined, no matter how tentatively you&rsquo;ve done it.
And you have broken the isolation. And to that degree you have begun to
be the Light of the World that overcomes the world you made-up. And
because it does, that causes you to be in the presence of everyone else
you know in a new way that does lead to the possibility of everyone else
making the same choice and adding to the Light. Not just the Light that
overcomes the world they made-up, but the world that those who are
joined in dreaming have made-up and are still continuing to reinforce.
It weakens the resolve of all the rest who are engaged in reinforcing
the world they have determined on their own.

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; YOU shine it away WITH me. The light becomes OURS, and you
cannot abide in darkness any more than darkness can abide wherever you
go. The remembrance of me IS the remembrance of yourself and of Him Who
sent me to you. You were in darkness until God&rsquo;s Will was done
completely by ANY part of the Sonship. When this was done, it was
perfectly accomplished by ALL.
</div>

In other words, when I did it perfectly, it was done perfectly by every
single one of the Brotherhood, even those who were still asleep because
of What They Really Are. And What They Really Are is the Will of God,
the Intent or Purpose To Be, and to be nothing other than Itself which
is a Singularity. That is why it was accomplished successfully by all.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
How else could it BE perfectly accomplished? My mission was simply to
unite the will of the Sonship with the Will of the Father by &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; being aware of the Father&rsquo;s Will myself.
</div>

Now you could say, &ldquo;Well, not all of the Brotherhood indulged in
dreams, so why didn&rsquo;t their State of Perfect Being not accomplish
it perfectly for all of us who were dreaming?&rdquo; The reason is that,
for lack of better words, a trail home needed to be blazed from the
place of dreams. Someone in the dream, someone obviously and provably in
the human experience had to demonstrate that there is a way Home from
there. That was what was accomplished perfectly.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
My mission was simply to unite the will of the Sonship with the Will of
the Father by being aware of the Father&rsquo;s Will myself. This is the
awareness I came to give YOU, and your problem in accepting it IS the
problem of this world. Dispelling it is salvation, and in this sense I
AM the salvation of the world.
</div>

What world? The world you made-up that you&rsquo;re giving preference to
in place of the Kingdom of Heaven, Reality As It Truly Is.

Now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The world must despise and reject me because the world IS the belief
that love is impossible.
</div>

Well, let&rsquo;s bring this home a little further. This world you have
made-up must despise and reject you&mdash;the Real You. Why? Because
it&rsquo;s the evidence of the fact that you don&rsquo;t know Who You
Are and you&rsquo;re not claiming your Birthright. And in your
insistence upon being independent authorities, you are actively denying
your Self. You are actively keeping your Real Selfhood out of sight. And
you&rsquo;ve done this, as I&rsquo;ve said before, by denying your
Source and claiming in so many ways that you are your own source, that
you truly are a self-starter, that you truly are an independent
embodiment of life that exists and acts on the basis of a will that is
its own, and only its own.

And then, because it&rsquo;s not the Truth of You and you are denying
What You Truly Are, you experience being afraid, because you can&rsquo;t
be in a state of capital &ldquo;S&rdquo; Self-denial and be comfortable.
Your innate Sanity, with a capital &ldquo;S&rdquo;, will be a constant
reminder to you that you&rsquo;re trying to do what&rsquo;s impossible.
And so your Sanity becomes an alarm system that constantly says,
&ldquo;Stop doing this. Stop doing this. You&rsquo;re moving in the
wrong direction. You can&rsquo;t accomplish this. Don&rsquo;t waste your
time.&rdquo; Et cetera, et cetera.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The world must despise and reject me &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; because the world &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that you made-up &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; IS the belief that love is impossible. YOUR reactions to me are
the reactions of the world to God. If you will accept the fact that I am
with you, you are DENYING the world &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you made-up &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and ACCEPTING God.
</div>

Again, I&rsquo;ll read it as it is here.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you will accept the fact that I am with you, you are DENYING the
world and ACCEPTING God. My will is His, and YOUR will to hear me is the
decision to hear His Voice and abide in His Will.
</div>

In other words, it&rsquo;s the first step in your annulling the divorce.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As God sent me to you, so will I send you to others. And I will go to
them WITH you, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you don&rsquo;t think I&rsquo;d send you out alone, do you? I
will go with you because together you are in a state of willingness to
hear the Truth, and thereby extend the Truth to your Brothers.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As God sent me to you, so will I send you to others. And I will go to
them WITH you, so we can teach them peace and union.
</div>

Do you realize that you on your own can&rsquo;t teach peace and union?
You see, there&rsquo;s no &ldquo;We.&rdquo; And if there&rsquo;s no
&ldquo;We,&rdquo; there&rsquo;s no union. Total independent purity, let
us say, does not constitute union. Total independent flawlessness, or a
flawless state of independence, does not constitute union because
there&rsquo;s no &ldquo;We.&rdquo; And how can you teach
&ldquo;We&rdquo; and &ldquo;Us&rdquo; if you are insisting upon being
something independent, if you&rsquo;re insisting on being &ldquo;I, I,
I&rdquo;?

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Do you not think the world NEEDS peace as much as you do? Do you not
want to GIVE it to the world as much as you want to RECEIVE it? For
unless you do, you will NOT receive it.
</div>

You see, you can&rsquo;t receive it if you don&rsquo;t pass it on. You
see? You can&rsquo;t embody the Christ when you&rsquo;re a closet
Christ. You can&rsquo;t embody the Christ when you&rsquo;re still in the
closet and you haven&rsquo;t put your mouth where your mind is, or where
your desire is. And so if you say, &ldquo;I am the Christ,&rdquo; but
you won&rsquo;t let it show, then you are not embodying the Christ.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you will to have it &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning peace &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; of me, you MUST give it. Rehabilitation does not come from
anyone else.
</div>

Listen to this:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You can have guidance from without, but you must ACCEPT it from within.
The guidance must be what YOU want, or it will be meaningless to you.
That is why rehabilitation is a collaborative venture.
</div>

Rehabilitation is not something any one of you can do by yourself on
your own in the privacy of your mind. Period. Why? Because the
rehabilitation that has to occur is the falling down of the walls that
are keeping you separated from everything else. That&rsquo;s the
rehabilitation that has to occur.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I can tell you what to do, but this will not help you unless you
collaborate by believing that I KNOW what to do.
</div>

Oh. Wow, there comes this call for trust. And trust is involvement,
isn&rsquo;t it? Because you have to express faith, and you have to yield
your authority and agree to work together, and to entrust yourself to
One who knows better than you. Because what use is there to entrust
yourself to somebody who doesn&rsquo;t know more than you?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Only then will your mind choose to follow me. Without YOUR will &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your making the choice to follow me.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Without YOUR will you cannot BE rehabilitated.
</div>

So you see, when I have said the only right use of will is to choose not
to use it, you could have assumed that your will is an illusion and that
you will be giving it up forever. But the fact is that the only thing
you will be giving up is a misuse of your will called self-will, which
is always self-protective and a defense against everything that is not
you, when truly everything is the Infinitude of You, of What You
Divinely Are.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Without YOUR will you cannot BE rehabilitated. MOTIVATION to be healed
is the crucial factor in rehabilitation.
</div>

Well, whose motivation? Yours. If you don&rsquo;t bring motivation to
it, there will be no movement. If you are not motivated to move, I
promise you, you are motivated to stay stuck. You can&rsquo;t be without
motivation. If you&rsquo;re stuck, it&rsquo;s by your will; you are
motivated to not move one inch further ahead than where you are. So let
it be clear that you&rsquo;re going to be involved, that you are going
to change. And that without your willingness, you won&rsquo;t change.
Nothing will happen. Rehabilitation will not occur.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
MOTIVATION to be healed is the crucial factor in rehabilitation. Without
this, you are deciding AGAINST healing, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what did I just say? I just said, if you&rsquo;re stuck,
it&rsquo;s by your will. It&rsquo;s by your determination. You are
deciding against moving forward.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Without this, you are deciding AGAINST healing, and your veto of my will
for you &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; my Will for you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; MAKES HEALING IMPOSSIBLE.
</div>

Makes waking up impossible. If you do not join with One Who Is Awake,
who stands with you on your behalf, you cannot wake up. If you do not
join with the Holy Spirit, which is what? Nothing more than your Right
Mind, you cannot wake up. If you don&rsquo;t join with me when my
Function is the same as the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s, you cannot wake up.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If healing IS our joint will, unless our wills ARE joined you CANNOT be
healed.
</div>

What does that say there? It says that joint will, or joined will, is
healing, and nothing else. Nothing else is healing.

Well, you can think all the spiritual thoughts you want all by yourself,
but because you&rsquo;re doing them all by yourself, you&rsquo;re not
undoing the one thing that has caused you to have an experience of being
that&rsquo;s called the human condition. And therefore, you&rsquo;re
doing nothing to eliminate the liability to be ill.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If healing IS our joint will, unless our wills ARE joined you CANNOT be
healed. This is obvious when you consider what healing is FOR. Healing
is the way in which the separation is overcome. Separation is overcome
by UNION. It cannot be overcome by separating.

The WILL to unite must be unequivocal&hellip;
</div>

Well, you may not be able to be unequivocal for more than a few seconds
at a time, 5 or 10 minutes maybe, before you slip back. But the moment
it is unequivocal, there is transformation. There are instantaneous
healings. Lives take a new direction effortlessly, amazingly,
miraculously. Why? Because a sudden shift of perception has been able to
occur.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The WILL to unite must be unequivocal, or the will ITSELF is divided, or
not whole. Your will &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; not your self-will, but the Purpose of your Being.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is the means by which you determine your own condition because
will is the MECHANISM of decision. It is the power by which you separate
or join, and experience pain or joy accordingly. My will cannot OVERCOME
yours &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; so don&rsquo;t wait for me to overcome your will. It
won&rsquo;t happen. And don&rsquo;t try to tell me, &ldquo;If you were
the Christ, you could heal me. If you were really the Christ, you could
illuminate to me Who I Am.&rdquo; Wrong! You will not see anything you
do not choose to see, because you have that power of decision in you.

You want to know something? If I could actually override your free will,
I would have limited it. And if I successfully limited yours, the Will
of the Brotherhood, the Will of God, would have become limited.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
My will cannot OVERCOME yours because yours is as powerful as mine. If
it were not so, the Sons of God would be unequal.
</div>

All of the Brotherhood.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
All things are possible through our JOINT will, but my will alone cannot
help you. Your will is as free as mine, and God Himself would not go
against it. I cannot will what God does NOT will.
</div>

And, actually, neither can you. You&rsquo;ve tried to. And you&rsquo;ve
moved into a world of imagination. And you&rsquo;ve treated that world
of imagination as though it was real, which has constituted a demented
state of insanity which you are all suffering from, but which you think
is normal, and which you want me to help you improve by &hellip; well,
I&rsquo;m not even going to go into it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I cannot will what God does NOT will. I can offer you my will to make
YOURS invincible by this sharing, but I cannot OPPOSE yours without
competing with it, and thereby violating God&rsquo;s Will for you.

Nothing God created can oppose your will, as nothing God created can
oppose His.
</div>

So, it should be clear to you now that you have will. And it&rsquo;s not
a dirty word. And you are going to have to employ this will to
participate/collaborate with me, or with the Holy Spirit, so that you
break the isolation which has been the one thing that has caused all of
the distorted perceptions of Reality that you&rsquo;re experiencing. You
are going to have to participate. And the participation is going to
cause you to have new experiences of What You Are. And those new
experiences of What You Are, are going to force you to come out of the
closet and claim publicly your Identity. You&rsquo;re going to have to
stand up and be counted as What You Really Are. Because until you make
that gift of an announcement to the world, you haven&rsquo;t really made
it yours yet.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God GAVE your will its power, which I can only acknowledge in honor of
HIS. If you want to be like me I will help you&hellip;
</div>

Help you what? Be like me. Not help you accept your dream.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you want to be like me I will help you, knowing that we ARE alike. If
you want to be different, I will wait until you change your mind.
</div>

Oh, I know. &ldquo;Well, if you were really the Christ, you
wouldn&rsquo;t say that. And the very fact that you&rsquo;re saying that
tells me you&rsquo;re not the Christ. You would help me. Undyingly you
would help me. You would try to get me to change my mind. You would do
everything in your power to get me to change my mind. The Christ would
be willing to do that.&rdquo; Bullshit! [small laugh] Every single one
of you knows that one of the most powerful games you can play is,
&ldquo;Just try to get me to change my mind.&rdquo; Except you
don&rsquo;t say that, because if you said that to somebody, they would
walk away. So what you say is, &ldquo;I&rsquo;m so miserable and I know
I&rsquo;m not seeing things right. Please help me change my mind.&rdquo;
Sounds good, but it&rsquo;s still the same game.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you want to be different &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; from me &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; I will wait until you change your mind. I can TEACH you, but
only you can choose to LISTEN to &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; stand in receipt of. Let in &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; my teaching. How else can it be, if God&rsquo;s Kingdom IS
freedom? Freedom cannot be learned by tyranny of any kind, and the
perfect equality of ALL God&rsquo;s Sons cannot be recognized through
the dominion of one will over another.
</div>

And that&rsquo;s a nice way of saying it cannot be recognized through
the domination of one will over another. Because dominion isn&rsquo;t
over another; is nothing but domination.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God&rsquo;s Sons are equal in will, all being the Will of their Father.
This is the ONLY lesson I came to teach, knowing that it is true.
</div>

Don&rsquo;t any of you tell me you can&rsquo;t do it. Your whole lives
are expressions of your determination to be what you think you want to
be. You are all determined individuals. And that&rsquo;s not a putdown.
Of course, you&rsquo;re all determined. You are the Christ with purpose,
with will. And if you didn&rsquo;t have the determination to be, you
would not have what you call conscious experience.

The problem is that at the moment you&rsquo;re determined to be
something that&rsquo;s it&rsquo;s impossible for you to be. And through
guilt you are afraid to violate the code, the mutual agreements, by
which you came to the determination to be what you&rsquo;re trying to
be. And so you&rsquo;re caught by virtue of the characteristics of your
determination. But you can become free by being willing to be determined
to be something else. And the first thing you need to be determined not
to be is alone. That is the bottom line crux and key to your Awakening.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When your will is NOT mine, it is not our Father&rsquo;s.
</div>

It&rsquo;s self-will.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This means that you have imprisoned YOURS, and have not LET it be free.
Of yourselves you can do nothing because of yourselves you ARE nothing.
I am nothing without the Father, and YOU are nothing without ME because,
by denying the Father, you deny YOURSELF. I will ALWAYS remember you,
&hellip;
</div>

The Real One That You Are, the Divine One That You Are.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I will ALWAYS remember you, and in MY remembrance of you &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in my remembrance of what you truly Are &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; lies your remembrance of YOURSELF.
</div>

You see, you have forgotten. Somebody has to remember for you so that
they can remind you. And that&rsquo;s my Function, is to remind you of
What You Are so that [snap of the fingers] the light bulb, the
remembrance within you can occur so that you have justification for
abandoning your commitment to your current definition of yourself and
your current commitment to staying isolated.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I will ALWAYS remember you, and in MY remembrance of you lies your
remembrance of YOURSELF. In our remembrance of EACH OTHER &hellip;
</div>

Now we&rsquo;re talking about being joined. Not being isolated.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In our remembrance of EACH OTHER lies our remembrance of God. And in
this remembrance lies your freedom because your freedom IS in Him.
</div>

I&rsquo;ll tell you that your very existence is in Him. Your &hellip;
the state of Being that you are experiencing is Being, with a capital
&ldquo;B,&rdquo; Itself&mdash;God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Join, then, with me &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; break the isolation.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Join, then, with me in &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what? The only thing there is for us to join in.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; praise of Him &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; which means acknowledgement of your Source so that you&rsquo;re
no longer claiming a private, independent sourcing of yourself.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Join, then, with me in praise of Him AND you whom He created. This is
our gift of gratitude to Him, which He will share with ALL His
creations, to whom He gives equally whatever is acceptable to Him.
BECAUSE it is acceptable to Him &hellip;
</div>

Our remembrance of each other and our remembrance of Him. And in our
remembrance of Him, a coming into Singularity.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; it is the gift of freedom, which IS His Will for all His Sons.
By OFFERING freedom, YOU will be free.

Freedom &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and this is what we will end on.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Freedom is the only gift you can offer to God&rsquo;s Sons&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; to each other, in other words.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Freedom is the only gift you can offer to God&rsquo;s Sons, being an
acknowledgment of what THEY are and what HE is.
</div>

So while you sit neatly and tidily in your closet, claiming to be the
Christ, knowing in your mind that you must be the Christ and being
willing to not argue the point in your mind, you&rsquo;re still not
being the Christ because you&rsquo;re still not declaring yourself.
You&rsquo;re not letting anybody know. The knowledge is private
knowledge. That&rsquo;s aloneness. That&rsquo;s separation. That&rsquo;s
isolation. And no matter how comforting the thoughts are to you, there
will be no rehabilitation, no transformation, no healing, no awakening,
no change, that will occur. And so, don&rsquo;t fool yourselves any
longer thinking that your private, wonderful thoughts have some capacity
to transform your life or anything in the world you made-up, because it
doesn&rsquo;t and it won&rsquo;t.

Don&rsquo;t wait until you&rsquo;re utterly miserable to take the steps
of joining. I invite you to join with me, or to join with the Holy
Spirit, when you&rsquo;re not under stress. But I promise you that even
when it&rsquo;s not stressful, it&rsquo;s still going to take commitment
from you. You&rsquo;re still going to have to bring your will into play.
You&rsquo;re going to have to bring your willingness into play and act
on it. Not just think about it. Thinking the Truth is not acting on it.
Thinking the Truth is not embodying the Truth. You will have to
participate fully in the commitment you make. But I&rsquo;ll tell you
something. You&rsquo;re assured of success when you do it, whether you
can believe it or not, whether you can see it or not. And really you can
all understand that if you don&rsquo;t bring commitment to something,
nothing is going to happen.

Truth is simple. Be willing to look at it.

And there&rsquo;s more good news to come. And I look forward to being
with you, all of you, next week.

Okay.

[^1]: T8.4 The Light of the World

