---
title: Sep 26, 2004
ref: "T8.4 The Light of the World"
alink: "/acim/text/08/chap0804/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Freedom is the only gift you can offer to God&rsquo;s Sons&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; well, what is freedom? Simple answer: Freedom is the experience
of not being bound. But it&rsquo;s difficult to gain your freedom if you
don&rsquo;t know what&rsquo;s binding you; especially if what&rsquo;s
binding you is something that you have called the practice of freedom.
If your practice of freedom is what has bound you, you&rsquo;re not
likely to discover that fact on your own. Because your motive and
application of your will in your life you&rsquo;re now discovering is
keeping you in the dark.

Last week we discussed the fact that there&rsquo;s a difference between
free will and self-will, and that what you all have been calling free
will and which you have designated as an innate right that each of you
has and therefore a divine right that you have, we&rsquo;ve uncovered
the fact that that is not free will, but is self-will, and that
self-will is always acted out as a means of self-defense, of
self-protection. Its practice is predicated upon the idea, the single
mad idea that you exist independently on your own and your independence
is your birthright. And yet, for months now we&rsquo;ve been discussing
the fact that this independence is not only a flawed idea; it is false.
It simply isn&rsquo;t true.

If you&rsquo;re going to give freedom to your Brother, you&rsquo;re
going to have to have experienced it yourself. It&rsquo;s that simple.
In order to experience freedom, you&rsquo;re going to have to abandon
that which is binding you. And what has become abundantly and perfectly
clear is the fact that your practice of free will has been a practice of
self-will, and this is what has bound you. And this is what you&rsquo;re
going to have to abandon.

So, how are you going to abandon it? Well, I gave you two prayers some
time back. These are very helpful in abandoning the practice of
self-will. The first prayer was, I wish to see the Evidence of Love.
That desire expressed, embraced by you and not resisted, constitutes a
willingness to see something other than what you&rsquo;re generally
seeing. Because, as you look around, you do not seem to see the Evidence
of Love. You say it&rsquo;s because it isn&rsquo;t there. But I&rsquo;m
telling you, you aren&rsquo;t seeing it because you&rsquo;re not wishing
to see it. You&rsquo;re in a state of self-defense all the time.
You&rsquo;re protecting yourself against failure of all sorts. Plus
you&rsquo;re protecting yourself against a world that you believe is
basically hostile, and brothers and sisters who are basically
hostile&mdash;unlike you.

When you see someone who is ill, you believe it&rsquo;s true. And then
you take steps to defend yourself against their illness. And if you are
of a spiritual bent, you will even help them with quote &ldquo;the
truth,&rdquo; defend themselves against this real illness that&rsquo;s
part of the human condition. And so now both of you are engaged in
defense against an enemy. If you&rsquo;re still engaged in defense,
you&rsquo;re engaged in self-will and you&rsquo;re not experiencing your
freedom. And so you reinforce quote &ldquo;the human condition.&rdquo;
You reinforce the illness. You reinforce for yourself this hostile
world.

You have to find a way to step outside of that deeply ingrained,
habitual practice of claiming your independence from your Brothers and
from your world and from God. And you have to wish to see something new.
You have to wish to see something Real. You have to wish to see
something that at the moment your eyes aren&rsquo;t seeing. You have to
wish to see healing. I wish to see the Evidence of Love. I wish to see
beyond what my conditioned thinking is allowing me to see. I wish to see
that which is there which is greater than what my conditioned responses
cause me to see, and even what my Brother or Sister is presenting to me
in their own ignorance.

And the second prayer: I wish to be the Evidence of Love. I wish to be,
I wish my actions to express Love, not fear. I wish for my behavior to
embody Love, not fear. I wish to be the place where the Truth flows out
through me and illuminates Truth out there as healing, as regeneration,
as redemption.

Now we also found out last week that you can&rsquo;t do this alone
because your conditioning does not allow for the greater perspective
that is where Truth lies. And that&rsquo;s why I&rsquo;m here. And
that&rsquo;s why every single Brother and Sister of the Brotherhood
stands with you because they are Awake. They know the Truth. And what do
they know the Truth about that&rsquo;s most significant? They know the
Truth About You. I know the Truth About You. And so we stand in a
position of remembering for you what you have forgotten and which you
have become determined to not experience.

You say [small laugh], &ldquo;Why, I don&rsquo;t have a determination
not to experience it.&rdquo; But I&rsquo;m telling you that as long as
you are acting out from fear in a defensive manner through the use of
self-will, you are expressing determination not to remember because in
that state you cannot be conscious of the Truth About You. You cannot
remember it because it is an active practice of denial of What You Are.
You haven&rsquo;t known this, but now I&rsquo;m telling you. And this is
the way I help you remember.

Now, your task is to extend this same thing to your Brothers and
Sisters, even if they are presenting to you manifestations of illness,
manifestations of distress that come out in the form of hate and
jealousy and all of the forms that seem hurtful. Someone needs to
remember for your Brother, just as someone needs to remember for you.

So how do you &hellip; how do you gain your freedom? You gain it by
remembering Who You Are. And Who You Are is the Son or Daughter of your
Father. You&rsquo;re not an orphan. You&rsquo;re not independent.
You&rsquo;ve got to become humble enough to say you&rsquo;re willing to
abandon your insistence that you&rsquo;re an independent agent and that
is a God-given thing that it&rsquo;s your responsibility and right to
express as fully as possible. You&rsquo;ve got to become humble enough
because of the arrogance of the belief of independence to say
&ldquo;Help,&rdquo; to let your Father in so that you might remember
your Identity.

I wish to see the Evidence of Love, instead of what I&rsquo;m
conditioned to see. And I wish to be the Evidence of Love, instead of
the evidence of self-will. And then you don&rsquo;t sit there and strain
with all of your might to see the Evidence of Love all by yourself. You
say &ldquo;Father,&rdquo; you say &ldquo;Holy Spirit,&rdquo; you ask
your Guide to help you see the Truth that you know must be there. And
you let the influx of the clarity come because your desire to see the
Evidence of Love is as pure as you&rsquo;re able to let it be at the
moment, and your commitment is greater to seeing more of the Truth that
is there than it is to your conditioned perceptions.

I cannot express it strongly enough that every single day and in every
single moment only the Kingdom of Heaven confronts you and only the
Brotherhood confronts you. And so, no matter how the Brotherhood is
presenting themselves to you, those that are in your experience, there
is more there. And if they are presenting themselves to you in a way
that is offensive, because they mean to be offensive because
they&rsquo;re in a state of fear and need to protect themselves, you
have to be willing to stand there and remember that in spite of what
they&rsquo;re presenting which can&rsquo;t be the Truth About Them,
there is What They Really Are present right there. And you ask to help
remember, you ask for help to remember What Is The Truth About Them, so
that you might be the place where the Truth About Them makes entrance
into their experience.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Freedom is the only gift you can offer to God&rsquo;s Sons, being an
acknowledgment of what THEY are and what HE is.
</div>

There&rsquo;s the Fatherhood acknowledged that causes the experience of
Identity to return to you or to your Brother.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Freedom is creation because it is love. What you seek to imprison you do
NOT love.
</div>

&ldquo;Boy, she really looks bad today. She shouldn&rsquo;t to be out
here spreading her germs. He shouldn&rsquo;t be out here spreading his
germs. He ought to be, she ought to be, home confined to her room,
confined to her bed.&rdquo; Imprisoned.

&ldquo;Wow! He&rsquo;s really being obtuse today. Wow! She&rsquo;s
really being down and dirty mean. Shame on him! Shame on her! Exclude
them. Exclude him. Exclude her.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What you seek to imprison you do NOT love.
</div>

You see the difference? Healing is not going to arise, correction is not
going to occur if you believe what you are perceiving on the basis of
your thinking you&rsquo;re independent and vulnerable and in it in need
of always practicing self-defense. I promise you, if you don&rsquo;t
dare to embrace what your perceptions tell you is your enemy, you will
not be in a position to have revealed to you the True Nature of what
you&rsquo;re willing to embrace.

I wish to see the Evidence of Love. I do not wish to reinforce my
perceptions of something that is the opposite of Love and convict that
one by my convictions as to their unworthiness. I wish to see the
Evidence of Love. I wish to give a willingness to acknowledge the Christ
right there where that one is behaving so horribly. I wish to feel the
Truth of their Christhood so that I might be entirely undefended in his
or her presence and reflect to them my remembering of What They Truly
Are; not of the history they have provided to me over months and months
as to their guilt and that they really are obtuse and offensive,
threatening, and therefore an enemy.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What you seek to imprison you do NOT love. Therefore, when you seek to
imprison anyone&hellip;
</div>

In other words, when you seek to hold them to their history.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Therefore, when you seek to imprison anyone, including YOURSELF, you do
not love him, and you cannot identify WITH him.
</div>

The isolation is reinforced. The difference is reinforced. And you are
practicing and embodying polarization.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you imprison yourself, you are losing sight of your true
identification with me and with the Father.
</div>

Well, what does that mean? In practical terms, it means that you are
losing sight of your True Identification with your Guide, or with the
Holy Spirit, that which is your right Mind, and with the Father, and
reconfirming your lack of Identity, your orphan-hood.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your identification IS with the Father and with the Son. It CANNOT be
with one and not the other. If you are part of one, you must be part of
the other because they ARE One.
</div>

You see? You say, &ldquo;Okay, Father, I&rsquo;ll let You back in. And I
will acknowledge You as my Father so that I might experience my True
Identity.&rdquo; You can&rsquo;t say that and then say, &ldquo;But
[laughing] these bitches and bastards around me, I don&rsquo;t want to
acknowledge them as my Brothers and Sisters!&rdquo; Well, if
you&rsquo;re not willing to do that, you&rsquo;re not willing to accept
the Fatherhood of God that means that you have Sisters and Brothers,
that you are part of a Wholeness&mdash;part of a Wholeness, something
which fits in with a Wholeness&mdash;an Infinite Expression of God that
constitutes the Infiniteness of You. You see?

Unfortunately, you can&rsquo;t have a private relationship with God. The
minute you have a Real One with Him, you have a Real One with everyone
and everything. That&rsquo;s the prize! [laughing] That&rsquo;s what you
stand in receipt of&mdash;finding yourself not separated in any way from
anyone or anything. And in your willingness to stand in Brotherhood
fitting in with everything, you truly experience your Divinity and the
Divinity of Everything. And the Singularity of Infinity becomes your
Conscious Experience and you&rsquo;re Awake.

But I&rsquo;ll tell you something. You&rsquo;ve got to start today
pushing against your mindsets, your habitual thinking, your
well-established perceptions. You&rsquo;ve got to be willing to abandon
your relying upon your memory of your world and your memory of your
Brothers and Sisters, and the habit you have of holding it all to your
memory of it, and not being available in the moment of Conscious
Awareness of them to the experience of What They Truly Are as Creation
continues to be the Movement of quote &ldquo;Behold, I make all things
new&rdquo; unquote. God does not repeat Himself. Therefore, whoever is
confronting you or whatever is confronting you at this moment is not out
of the past. And in its presence &hellip; (I&rsquo;m sorry) &hellip; in
its present, it is glorious. It is an Experience of Glory.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Trinity is holy BECAUSE It is One. If you exclude YOURSELF from
this union, you are perceiving the Holy Trinity as separated. You must
be included IN It because It IS everything.
</div>

It is That Which nothing is excluded from.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Unless &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; oh boy! And the ego does not like this.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Unless you take your place in It and fulfill your function as PART of
It, It is as bereft as YOU are.
</div>

Why doesn&rsquo;t the ego like that? Because it loves its imagined
autonomy. And it loves the hit it expects to get from verifying its
independent capacity to authorize things. &ldquo;Fit in? Not be the
kingpin? Be equal with all of my Brothers and Sisters? Love them
unconditionally? Give them the benefit of the doubt from a clarity
that&rsquo;s available to me about What&rsquo;s Divinely True About Them
when they have been behaving so badly, or when I made such a fool of
myself in front of them?&rdquo; Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Unless you take your place in It and fulfill your function as PART of
It, It is as bereft as YOU are.
</div>

Now you must understand that although you have to acknowledge that
you&rsquo;re just part of the Whole, a part that must fit in, and unless
you yield to that, you won&rsquo;t abandon the practice of independence.
And you won&rsquo;t &hellip; your mind will not be present to experience
the Singularity of Creation in which All Of Creation Is You, and you do
not experience being a part of it. But you will not get to the place of
experiencing your Integral Connection with the Whole until you&rsquo;re
first willing to recognize and accept the fact that you&rsquo;re a part
of it. And that it&rsquo;s your Function to fit in. It&rsquo;s not your
Function to be different from it all. That is not what your Birthright
is. And that is not what free will is all about.

Free will isn&rsquo;t a capacity you have to stand up and be different
from everything else. Free will, as we talked about last week, is the
Will that doesn&rsquo;t bind you or anything else. It is the
Father&rsquo;s Will To Be. It is, therefore, the Will To Be that is at
the very center of you. Not the will to be something, but the Will To
Be. To Be. And, you might say, letting the chips fall where they may.

It&rsquo;s not a will to be with control. It&rsquo;s a will to be
conscious of whatever there is to be conscious of. God be&rsquo;s as
Mind. Mind cannot be Mind without being conscious, without being
conscious of something. And the only thing there is for it to be
conscious of is the Movement of Its Will To Be. And so Mind/God
discovers at every moment anew What It Is. And the Wholeness of It is
captured by the words, &ldquo;And God saw,&rdquo; I&rsquo;m going to
say, &ldquo;And God sees everything that He is Being. God/Mind sees the
Movement of Mind and recognizes Itself in It.&rdquo; And you know what?
God/Mind stays with that experience without attempting to apply controls
to it.

&ldquo;Oh, I want that thing over there that&rsquo;s exquisite to be a
little bit different. Oh, I want to look at it through lenses that
distort it a little bit.&rdquo;

God and you, when you&rsquo;re not practicing self-will, allow God and
you, allow for Creation, the Movement of Being to occur, and notice it,
acknowledge it, and recognize yourself in. And never does any act of
coercion come into play.

Again, referring to the Holy Trinity.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Unless you take your place in It and fulfill your function as PART of
It, It is as bereft as YOU are. No part of It can be imprisoned if Its
truth is to be known.
</div>

If Its Truth is to be known rather than your preference.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Can you be separated from your identification and be at peace?
</div>

Can you forget your Identity, seem to become an orphan, and be at peace?
Well, [laughing] are you at peace? Is life a dream? Is life wonderful?
Is life full of uninterrupted bliss and harmony? No. Your experience of
life right now answers that question.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Can you be separated from your identification and be at peace?
Dissociation &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; divorcement.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is not a solution; it is &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; a DELUSION.
</div>

It&rsquo;s not even real! It&rsquo;s a [laughing] &hellip; it&rsquo;s
like a universal misperception. It isn&rsquo;t that it&rsquo;s actually
universal, but it is that the only thing you have to be conscious of is
the Universal and you&rsquo;re having a misperception of the Universal.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The delusional &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; those who insist upon the right to practice free will, which
really means self-will.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The delusional believe that truth will assail them, and so they do not
SEE it because they PREFER the delusion.
</div>

Well, why would you think that Truth would assail you? Well, if Truth is
going to reveal to you that your definitions that you&rsquo;ve given
everything are not true, that will seem to call the integrity of you,
the authorizer of those definitions, into question. That&rsquo;s an
attack. It&rsquo;s seen as a means of undermining your capacity to be an
independent authorizer. And, of course, it is. [small laugh] But
it&rsquo;s not attack. It&rsquo;s the Truth bringing the Truth to your
Conscious Awareness so that you might become free of a delusion, so that
you might become free of a bondage that it&rsquo;s not appropriate for
you to be experiencing.

And you know what? The Truth that&rsquo;s being revealed to you now is
incredible, because it is saying with utter clarity to you that what you
have called the practice of free will is what binds you, because in
actuality it&rsquo;s a practice of self-will. And this practice of
self-will is nothing more than a practice of self-defense which
reinforces your delusion that you are independent and separate, and
absolutely blinds you to the place you hold in the Wholeness of Creation
in which no part of the Wholeness of Creation is unavailable to you. And
therefore, in which you can experience the Singularity of Creation and
find yourself at One with It all, and It all at One with you, causing
you to experience Selfhood as Infinite. And because it&rsquo;s Infinite,
it&rsquo;s incapable of standing apart from anything. Because
there&rsquo;s no outside to Infinity for you to stand up and be tall in,
or bigger than Infinity.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The delusional believe that truth will assail them, and so they do not
SEE it because they PREFER the delusion. Judging truth as something they
do NOT want, they perceive deception and block knowledge.
</div>

And where do they perceive deception? Right where Truth is present.
Where do you guys see deception? You see it in each other. You look at
each other and you believe that all of you are deceptive to one degree
or another with each other, and therefore you&rsquo;ve got to be on
guard. They look at Truth, they look at God, they look at me, they look
at their Guide, and they perceive either deception or potential
deception. You see? &ldquo;God is going to nail me. God says He&rsquo;s
Love, but He is going to nail me.&rdquo; You see deception there.

You look at Truth which says there&rsquo;s a different way to be that is
more fulfilling, but in order to experience it, you&rsquo;re going to
have to be willing to abandon the right you think you have to authorize
things, to be the authorizer of things. You&rsquo;re going to have to
abandon the acts of independent authority that you have come to believe
give you credibility and respectability and success. And you see that as
deceptive. And here is where you love to bring out the biblical
statement that if the spirits speak to you, test them; test them because
you don&rsquo;t know whether they&rsquo;re evil spirits, or really
Spirit, with a capital &ldquo;S.&rdquo; And so you justify not taking
the risk of exploring what Truth reveals to you because you are afraid
that Truth is deceptive.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Judging truth as something they do NOT want, they perceive deception and
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; block knowledge.
</div>

Knowledge means Knowing, with a capital &ldquo;K.&rdquo; It means the
Divine Awareness of What Really Is. You block it. You simply block it.
That&rsquo;s the result.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Help them &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your Brothers and Sisters &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; by offering them YOUR unified will on their behalf&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; be willing to remember for them.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Help them by offering them YOUR unified will on their behalf, as I am
offering you mine on YOURS.
</div>

And as has been brought out, whatever you give becomes yours.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Alone we can do nothing, but TOGETHER, our wills fuse into something
whose power is far beyond the power of its separate parts. By NOT BEING
SEPARATE, the Will of God is established IN ours and AS ours.
</div>

And that&rsquo;s where self-will goes out of the picture. And
that&rsquo;s what the ego screams loudly to you to ignore, because it
knows it&rsquo;s the end of it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
By NOT BEING SEPARATE, the Will of God is established IN ours and AS
ours. This will is invincible BECAUSE it is undivided. The undivided
will of the Sonship is the perfect creator, being wholly in the likeness
of God, Whose Will it IS.
</div>

You are all so afraid of disappearing &hellip; disappearing into the
mix if you yield, if you abandon your right to private self-existence,
self-authorized self-existence. And what you don&rsquo;t realize is
that your insistence upon your self-authorized self-existence is
bondage.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The undivided will of the Sonship is the perfect creator, being wholly
in the likeness of God, Whose Will it IS. YOU cannot be exempt from it,
if you are to understand what IT is and what YOU are. By separating your
will FROM mine, you are exempting yourself from the Will of God Which IS
yourself.
</div>

Now the human condition that you seem to be experiencing is a result of
already having done that. And so we could say, instead of saying,
&ldquo;By separating your will from mine,&rdquo; we could say, &ldquo;by
not joining your will with mine now that you know better, now that you
know that is possible, you are exempting yourself from the Will of God
which IS yourself.&rdquo;

So now you know that you have an option to the human condition. Now you
know you have an option to what you call &ldquo;free will,&rdquo; which
now you know is really self-will, and which is the means by which you
bind yourself to isolation. You know you have an option now. And
intellectually you can grasp the wisdom of taking that option, but until
you do it, you will be exempting yourself from the Will of God which is
yourself. You will be exempting yourself from the Conscious Experience
of What You Really Are. And you will be exempting yourself from
remembering Who You Are. And until you remember Who You Are even a
little bit, even a glimpse, you won&rsquo;t be in a position of
extending freedom to your Brother.

I know, it seems like there are so many things for you to
re-see&mdash;to look at and see again with new eyes. There are so many
things that seem unlovely. There are so many whom you feel are not
worthy of your love quote &ldquo;because of what they did&rdquo; unquote
in the past. There are so many things to see anew, to re-see,
that&rsquo;s it&rsquo;s overwhelming and you couldn&rsquo;t possibly
accomplish it. That is an illusion. All you have to do is begin to break
the habit of misperceiving. Just begin to break the habit by doing
something new with this little one, and this little thing, and that
little thing. And see the transformation and the renewal. Just begin
with the little things.

But remember the goal is, I wish to see the Evidence of Love. Not the
evidence of hate. Not the evidence of fear. And I wish to be the
Evidence of Love. Not the evidence of frustration. Not the evidence of
fear. Not the evidence of hate. Why? Because I wish to see the Evidence
of Love here&mdash;meaning I wish to see healing here. I wish to see
transformation in my world. I wish to see redemption&mdash;mine, my
Brother&rsquo;s, the world&rsquo;s.

You really do want to see something different from what you&rsquo;re
experiencing right now. You want to experience it in a way that&rsquo;s
different from the way you&rsquo;re experiencing it right now. You
really do. So it&rsquo;s not hard if you don&rsquo;t forget that you
really do want to see things differently. It&rsquo;s not hard to begin
to take the small steps.

I wish to see the Evidence of Love. I wish to be the Evidence of Love.
Say those prayers and mean them. And remember that meaning them means
that you will not continue to have the right to hold your Brother to his
past, or to hold your Brother to your memories of the past. You will
lose the &ldquo;freedom&rdquo; to be reactive to your misperceptions,
whether they&rsquo;re relative to you, or to your Brother. Because you
want to see the Evidence of Love and you want to be the Evidence of
Love. Because you want to remember Who You Are. [softly said] And I, and
each of your Guides, are here to help you remember. So refer to us when
you&rsquo;re confronted by this opportunity, or that opportunity, or the
other opportunity to see in a new way.

Okay. I love you all. Why? Because I know Who You Really Are. And
it&rsquo;s not who you think you really are. I look forward to being
with you next week.

[^1]: "T8.4 The Light of the World"

