---
title: Oct 3, 2004
ref: "T8.4 The Light of the World"
alink: "/acim/text/08/chap0804/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

We&rsquo;re talking about making the Gift of Freedom. And last week I
shared with you two prayers that I had shared with you earlier. I wish
to SEE the Evidence of Love and I wish to BE the Evidence of Love.

In order to see the Evidence of Love, you must be willing to see the
Evidence of Love. But sometimes, your Brothers or Sisters consciously
choose to be unlovely; I&rsquo;ll put it that way. They do it out of
fear. They do it out of desperation because they have this false
experience of being alone, just as all of you do to one degree or
another. And the question is what do you do with a Brother who insists
on engaging in activities and language that is UNloving?

Remember, again in the context of making the Gift of Freedom, Real
Freedom means to be free of that which binds you. And remember that
we&rsquo;re talking about the fact that the expression of self-will
which everyone thinks is the meaning of free will is what binds you. And
so, when you come to a Brother with the desire to make the Gift of
Freedom, you&rsquo;re coming to that Brother to say, &ldquo;Freedom
means something different from what you believe it is. And at the bottom
line, it means that you&rsquo;re going to have to abandon what you have
called freedom. You&rsquo;re going to have to abandon what you call
freedom.&rdquo; Well, not everyone wants to do that. In fact, at the
bottom line, none of you are awake because none of you is willing to
abandon the expression of freedom, by your definition, which is the
right to express self-will.

So you are likely to be met, not by willing agreement, but you are
likely to be met by resistance. So how do you not become discouraged?
Well, the easiest way not to be discouraged is not to try to force an
understanding of True Freedom on someone who is adamantly committed to
expressing self-will. It&rsquo;s only when you try to do the impossible
that you get frustrated and discouraged, right? Those who are not
willing to listen to me in the within-ness of themselves do not hear me,
even though I am willing to speak, even though I do speak. So you must
be willing to back off from those who vehemently refuse to consider that
there&rsquo;s another way to look at the meaning of freedom and
there&rsquo;s another way to look at the meaning of free will, which, as
we&rsquo;ve been discussing, means yielding to the Father&rsquo;s Will,
letting the Father&rsquo;s Will be your will, which in Truth it is.

Now, in extreme cases where you&rsquo;re dealing with those who are
caught in an ethic of expressing self-will, who see it as the be-all and
end-all of existence, and when their behavior is obtuse, unpleasant,
hateful, when it expresses jealousy, and they don&rsquo;t want to shut
up, they want the freedom to express it endlessly, loudly, to anyone who
will listen, you must say, &ldquo;No.&rdquo; You must say, &ldquo;You
cannot continue this behavior in my presence.&rdquo; And in effect they
become excluded from your company. What that amounts to is an
intelligent action of restraint that is being applied to an uncontrolled
expression of that which is unlovely.

And don&rsquo;t ever think that the Course teaches that there should
never be restraint of any kind. That amounts to sheer stupidity. When
this happens and you have to say &ldquo;No&rdquo; and an apparent
exclusion occurs, it&rsquo;s because you have good reason for it. You
have intelligent reason for it. You will not participate in enabling
that which doesn&rsquo;t express the True Nature of the one who wants to
be hateful or unlovely.

So you have a picture of them in your mind regarding an accurate
assessment of their current behavior, and you know that until the
behavior changes, the restriction must stay in place. Now comes the
important part. You&rsquo;ve set up the restriction. The exclusion is in
place and you understand why the exclusion is in place. The reason can
in your mind become a definition you have about that individual. And
here&rsquo;s the place where you will make a mistake, because you
can&rsquo;t allow the description of their current behavior to become
the definition of them in your own mind. Why? Because the minute it
becomes the definition of them in your own mind, you have forgotten Who
They Are. They are not their behavior. None of you are your behavior.
But your bad behavior can&rsquo;t continue.

Why would you make the Gift of Freedom to your Brother? Because you love
your Brother. Another reason you would give the Gift of Freedom to your
Brother is because as you&rsquo;re in the process of waking up, healing
becomes your goal. The correction of misunderstanding, the correction of
misperception is your goal because that constitutes healing.

You have forgotten Who You Are and I am remembering for you. And because
I continue to remember What You Really Are for you, I can share it with
you so that you can remember. You&rsquo;re here to remember for your
Brothers and Sisters.

And so if you set a limit on behavior and if you use the reasons for the
limit as a definition of them, you will no longer be able to remember
for them Who They Are. And you will not be able to be an agent for
change, and in effect you and that Brother will become locked in a
picture&mdash;a picture that is not the Truth. And you will have gone to
sleep a little bit more, instead of having woken up a little bit more.
And you will not be able to be an agent for change.

Where a brother or a sister or a parent or a child insists on behaving
in ways that are desruptive/harmful, you must set the limit. And then
in the quietness of your mind when they come to your thought, you must
take that opportunity to remember for them Who They Are. You don&rsquo;t
confront them with it, but you nevertheless remember consciously. For
you to remember What They Are is an Act of Love.

To remember the definition you&rsquo;ve applied to them is an act of
hate. To hold them to the definition you have of them, to hold them to
the picture they have presented of themselves is an act of hate. It is
not healing

So remember, you give the Gift of Freedom because your goal, your
intent, is to heal. Healing someone doesn&rsquo;t mean controlling them
into their good. It means acknowledging What Is True About Them in your
mind so that you are not confused. And in that acknowledgement of What
They Truly Are, you are remembering the Father, you are remembering God.
And by remembering God in your mind relative to your Brother, you are
glorifying God right there and that is your Gift.

And you know what? There&rsquo;s never a time to abandon that activity.
That doesn&rsquo;t mean you have to sit there twenty-four hours a day
remembering God right there where they are, because there&rsquo;s a
whole Universe. All of your friends, all of the things in your
experience deserve that acknowledgement, because that&rsquo;s how you
glorify God. And that&rsquo;s how you make the Truth about you yours,
because you haven&rsquo;t forgotten to remember Who Your Brother Truly
Is.

I can remember Who You Are but that won&rsquo;t change you. As I
remember Who You Are and it filters into your awareness, you have the
opportunity and the obligation to extend that recognition on to your
Brother, and then change occurs for you. That&rsquo;s why there&rsquo;s
never a time to abandon your Brother, even if you have had to exclude or
set limits so that abuse can&rsquo;t occur, and so that the enabling of
an abusive attitude doesn&rsquo;t become acceptable. You see? So
it&rsquo;s a fine line.

Remember though that if you&rsquo;re getting discouraged, it&rsquo;s
because you&rsquo;re trying to enforce another&rsquo;s good on him.
You&rsquo;re trying to enforce another&rsquo;s freedom on him. And that
doesn&rsquo;t make sense, does it? [in an amused voice] How can you
enforce freedom on another? You cannot force another to be free.
[laughing] You see? That&rsquo;s control and the absence of freedom for
your Brother.

Remember your Function is to be the Evidence of Love, and so your very
being is healing. And that&rsquo;s the goal. The uncovering of That
Which Is Real right where the unreal seems to be presenting itself.

I&rsquo;m going to back up one sentence from where we left off.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
By separating your will FROM mine, you are exempting yourself from the
Will of God Which IS yourself.

Yet to heal is still to make whole. Therefore, to heal is to UNITE with
those who are like you because perceiving this likeness IS to recognize
the Father. If YOUR perfection is in Him &hellip; [^1]
</div>

&hellip; your &hellip; the Father.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and ONLY in Him, how can you KNOW it without recognizing Him?
</div>

And I&rsquo;m going to add: Where are you going to recognize Him? In
your Brothers. In your Sisters. In All of Creation that&rsquo;s all
around you.

But you&rsquo;re going to have to be willing to see it there right where
someone is saying, &ldquo;No, I&rsquo;m not the Evidence of God.
I&rsquo;m the bastard I am proclaiming to you is what&rsquo;s here. I am
the unpleasant person you see here. And I will devote myself to
convincing you of just how awful I am.&rdquo; You can&rsquo;t dare to
believe that one because then you&rsquo;ll forget Who He Is and then you
won&rsquo;t make the Gift of the Truth of him. You won&rsquo;t remember
for him. And you won&rsquo;t make your own &hellip; you won&rsquo;t make
your own my remembering of Who You Are. And you will lose the blessing
of my remembering Who You Are because you refuse to remember Who Your
Brother Is, because you chose to believe the awful picture he or she was
presenting.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If YOUR perfection is in Him &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Father &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and ONLY in Him, how can you KNOW it without recognizing Him?
The recognition of God IS the recognition of yourself.
</div>

You see how useless it is to go off into the ethers or go off into a
mountain all by yourself and look for God? You need a Brother next to
you. You need a tree next to you. You could find that on a high
mountain. But the point is you can&rsquo;t look away from everything
you&rsquo;re experiencing into the vast unknown to find God.
You&rsquo;ve got to look right in front of your eyes.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The recognition of God IS the recognition of yourself.
</div>

That&rsquo;s when you get to keep your gift. And that&rsquo;s when you
become the embodiment of What You Truly Are.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There IS no separation of God and His creation.
</div>

That means the word &ldquo;and&rdquo; there is inappropriate because
there isn&rsquo;t God and His Creation. There is God being All There Is.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You will learn this as you learn that there is no separation of YOUR
will and MINE.
</div>

You see? Free will has been thought to be an expression of will that is
independent and different from every other one&rsquo;s expression of
free will. That&rsquo;s not true. That is a definition of self-will. And
that&rsquo;s why awakening occurs so slowly. Because each of you is so
reluctant to give up your right to an independent expression of will,
and because it is humiliating to this ego definition of yourself to
think that Real Will, your Real Will is shared by all equally because it
isn&rsquo;t yours; it&rsquo;s derived from your Source&mdash;God the
Father.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Let the Love of God shine upon you by your acceptance of me.
</div>

By letting me in as a Brother, really as a Brother, [sigh] and not
trying to be different from me, and not trying to see me as different
from you, so that the simple Love of our Brotherhood might surge and
grow and become paramount, more important to you than your so-called
independence.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
MY reality is yours AND His.
</div>

Meaning the Father&rsquo;s.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
By joining your will with mine, you are signifying your awareness that
the Will of God is One.
</div>

Now how could we arrive at that?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
By joining your will with mine, you are signifying your awareness that
the Will of God is One.
</div>

Well, by joining with me and abandoning your attempts to be independent,
self-willed, self-authorized, you break the sense of isolation which has
been binding you and which has been utterly false, unreal, pure fantasy.
And you have the experience of truly not being alone. In that experience
of, for lack of better words, Family, of belonging together,
you&rsquo;re acknowledging our Brotherhood, and therefore the fact that
we have a common parent, or, if you wish, common
parents&mdash;Father/Mother/God. And now God and you and me are joined
in one experience as one experience.

And so &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
By joining your will with mine, you are signifying your awareness that
the Will of God is One.
</div>

Not divided up.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God&rsquo;s Oneness and ours are not separate because His Oneness
ENCOMPASSES ours. To join with me is to restore His power to you BECAUSE
we are sharing it.
</div>

You see, sharing is the one thing that egos don&rsquo;t do. They stand
apart from each other, and they barter with each other, and they
manipulate each other into behaving in a way that fits whatever the
current definition of good is. And, of course, the word
&ldquo;good&rdquo; means &ldquo;what&rsquo;s good for me.&rdquo;
&ldquo;What&rsquo;s good for us&rdquo; would involve a sharing attitude,
wouldn&rsquo;t it? An involved attitude.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To join with me is to restore His power to you BECAUSE we are sharing
it. I offer you only the RECOGNITION of His power in you &hellip;
</div>

You see? By remembering Who You Are, by remembering that you are our
Father&rsquo;s Son or Daughter, I am recognizing His Power in you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I offer you only the RECOGNITION of His power in you, but in that lies
ALL truth.
</div>

So you get a lot more than what you would expect by letting me in. And
your Brother gets a lot more than just your gift when your Brother lets
you in. It&rsquo;s a Family Reunion. The Whole Family is received. The
Whole Family becomes yours. All of the Brotherhood becomes available to
you.

And you see how you fit in. And you see that you belong. And you see
that you&rsquo;re not alone, and therefore, you&rsquo;re not vulnerable.
And in the relief and Peace that you experience, you abandon your desire
to express what you&rsquo;ve called free will, which has meant
self-will.

And then, as I&rsquo;ve said before, you don&rsquo;t continue to have
this experience of fitting in. You have the experience of the
recognition that all of God&rsquo;s Creation is the Wholeness of You.
And the experience of All of Creation and of the Brotherhood of Man
becomes the Infinite Wholeness of You. And the experience constitutes a
completing of your Wholeness in your Conscious Awareness. And what? The
Movement of Creation, the Movement of God becomes the uninterrupted and
undistorted and integrated Conscious Experience of your Being. And we
have a Singularity in which you haven&rsquo;t been swallowed up, but in
which you can relate to all of Creation intimately, beautifully,
lovingly.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As WE unite, we unite with Him.
</div>

You see, it&rsquo;s more than just you and I uniting with each other.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Glory be to the union of God and His holy Sons! All glory lies in them
BECAUSE they are united.
</div>

I will tell you this. As long as you&rsquo;re insisting on being
independent, the Glory of God is dimmed. Not that it can actually dim, but
it becomes dim to you. It slowly becomes forgotten, which is why someone
must remember It for you, and why you must remember It for someone else.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The miracles we do &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning when we&rsquo;re joined, when you&rsquo;ve let me in,
when you wish to know the Truth, instead of what you had believed the
Truth to be, and you&rsquo;re willing to hear of Truth from me and yield
to it and trust me, miracles will occur.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The miracles we do bear witness to the Will of the Father for His Son
&hellip;
</div>

In other words, we&rsquo;re fulfilling our Purpose. We&rsquo;re
fulfilling God&rsquo;s Purpose for us. Your Purpose is to let
God&rsquo;s Purpose be fulfilled in you. You&rsquo;re here to be the
Glory of God. Surprise!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The miracles we do bear witness to the Will of the Father for His Son,
and to our joy in uniting WITH His Will for us.
</div>

Well, that&rsquo;s something you probably hadn&rsquo;t anticipated was
that uniting with His Will for us would constitute an Experience of
Joy&mdash;spontaneous, unexpected, but actual. And it&rsquo;s been a
long time since you&rsquo;ve had the experienced Joy. And yet it&rsquo;s
your Birthright and you deserve to be experiencing it. And it waits for
your simple willingness to not value autonomy, to not value
independence, to not value having an interpretation or a definition of
things different from what the Act of Creation has placed there in
expression.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you unite with me&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; I&rsquo;m going to interrupt.

We&rsquo;re talking a lot about uniting with me. Uniting with me. What
does &ldquo;uniting with me&rdquo; mean? It means letting go of the
sense that you are special in your own right. Because to whatever degree
you think you are special and therefore unique, and therefore different
from me, it means you&rsquo;re different and unique, you&rsquo;re unique
and different from What The Father Is and What His Will Is for you and
What He Is Expressing Of Himself as you. &ldquo;Uniting with me&rdquo;
simply means that the call is for breaking the independence by reaching
outside of your specialness and of your rights, what you have called
your right, which has amounted to self-will.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you unite with me, &hellip;
</div>

In other words, when you break your isolation. When you break your
imprisonment. That&rsquo;s what it means. It&rsquo;s not even that
I&rsquo;m special. Uniting with me doesn&rsquo;t mean yielding to
someone superior. Uniting with me doesn&rsquo;t mean yielding to someone
in higher authority. &ldquo;Uniting with me&rdquo; means just being
willing to be undefended with me, present with me, not holding yourself
aloof so that you miss out on the wonder of Brotherhood.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you unite with me, you are uniting WITHOUT the ego because I have
renounced the ego in myself, and therefore CANNOT unite with yours.
</div>

Uh oh. That means your ego gets excluded. &ldquo;Tsk, tsk, tsk. Naughty,
naughty, naughty. I know, I should embrace your ego. It&rsquo;s the
Christian and loving and Course-like way to do things. I shouldn&rsquo;t
judge your ego. I should let it be and forgive it.&rdquo; Well, I
can&rsquo;t do it, because [laughing] it isn&rsquo;t real. It
isn&rsquo;t really there for me to join with. And it isn&rsquo;t really
any part of the You that can join with me. And so it is excluded.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
OUR union is therefore &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; get this!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the way to renounce the ego in YOURSELF.
</div>

Now, each of you has a Guide. Someone of the Brotherhood is assigned to
each one of you. And each one of them is Awake. And so it isn&rsquo;t
just me that you can unite with and have the same result. You can unite
with your Guide and everything that we&rsquo;ve been reading here will
apply equally.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
OUR union is therefore the way to renounce the ego in YOURSELF. The
truth in both of us is BEYOND the ego.
</div>

Is beyond the definitions you have created about yourself for yourself
and which you have chosen to believe is the truth about you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The truth in both of us is &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; beyond that &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; BEYOND the ego. By willing that, you HAVE gone beyond it toward
truth. Our success in transcending the ego is guaranteed by God, and I
can share this confidence for both of us and ALL of us.
</div>

And I&rsquo;m going to add that you can share this confidence for you
and your Brothers and all of us.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I bring God&rsquo;s peace back to all His Children because I received it
of Him for us all.
</div>

And when you receive it from me and extend it on and make it yours, you
receive it for us all.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Nothing can prevail against our united wills because nothing can prevail
against God&rsquo;s. Would you know the Will of God for YOU?
</div>

That means, &ldquo;Would you like to know what it is?&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Ask it of me who knows it FOR you, and you will find it.
</div>

Ask it of me who remembers it for you and you will find it.

What does this all amount to? It amounts to not going through your day
without being joined with a Brother who&rsquo;s Awake, who can help
provide you with a clearer perspective of Reality as you encounter your
Brothers and Sisters who are not coming from a clear experience of What
They Truly Are and need someone to remember for them.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I will deny you nothing, as God denies ME nothing.
</div>

And if I deny you nothing, and you make a gift of not denying anything
of What Is True with your Brother, you embody and make your own the Gift
I have made to you. And just like the leaven that leavens the whole
lump, your embrace of the Gift I have for you and your extension of it
so that it becomes your own, makes it easier for those who continue to
dream to wake up.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Ours is simply the journey back to God, Who is our home. Whenever fear
intrudes anywhere along the road to peace, it is ALWAYS because the ego
has attempted to join the journey with us, AND CANNOT DO SO.
</div>

Do you hear that?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; AND CANNOT DO SO.
</div>

The exclusion is absolute! You don&rsquo;t say, &ldquo;Oh, we&rsquo;ll
give ya, we&rsquo;ll give you another chance. We know that if we give
you enough chances, you&rsquo;ll change.&rdquo; No. The ego isn&rsquo;t
real. It&rsquo;s a fantasy. It&rsquo;s a[n] imagination. Treat it as
though it&rsquo;s real and it&rsquo;s an illusion. Illusions can&rsquo;t
go Home. And if you think you are that illusion and if you have
commitment to that illusion, you will keep yourself from seeing Home,
even though you&rsquo;re right in the middle of it.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Whenever fear intrudes anywhere along the road to peace, it is ALWAYS
because the ego has attempted to join the journey with us, AND CANNOT DO
SO. Sensing defeat and angered by it, the ego regards itself as rejected
and becomes retaliative.
</div>

Mm. Sounds to me like we&rsquo;re talking about what I started out with
today. What do you do when you make the Gift of Freedom to someone
who&rsquo;s committed to his or her free will, which is really
self-will, and insists upon being unpleasant, unloving? The Invitation
to Freedom means abandoning what is of value to the one who&rsquo;s
identifying with the ego. And when a limit is imposed, it senses defeat
and is angered by it. It regards itself as rejected. And what? Becomes
retaliative.

Just understand that that&rsquo;s the dynamic at work, so that
you&rsquo;re not fooled by it, so that you understand that that which
has no existence actually is upset because it&rsquo;s being faced with
the fact that it has no actual existence. And it&rsquo;s going to try to
get you to come back into the crab barrel. It&rsquo;s going to try to
get you to say to yourself, &ldquo;Oh! I&rsquo;m an ego. I remember
this. I know how to deal with this. I&rsquo;ll attack back. He is a
bastard but I know how to deal with him.&rdquo; You see? And so you
abandon the journey Home with me for a while.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You are invulnerable to its retaliation BECAUSE I AM WITH YOU.
</div>

Now, this is the thing you must understand because when the retaliation
comes, you need to remember who you&rsquo;re with. You need to remember
who you choose to be with. Do you wish, do you choose to join with the
one retaliating by countering his attack and getting stuck with him for
a while? Or, do you choose to remember that you&rsquo;re with me, and
that in our union you have available through me the means to not be
touched, not be snagged by, not be hooked by, the invitation to forget
Who You Are that is embodied in the retaliation? You&rsquo;ve got to
remember that you&rsquo;re with me, and then you&rsquo;ve got to choose
to stay with me.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You are invulnerable to its retaliation BECAUSE I AM WITH YOU. On this
journey, you have chosen me as your companion INSTEAD of the ego. Do not
try to hold on to both, or you will try to go in different directions,
and will lose the way.
</div>

And I will say you will try to go in different directions simultaneously
and you will disintegrate yourself. Your integrity will crumble as far
as your experience of it is concerned.

Now listen to this:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego&rsquo;s way is not mine, but it is also NOT YOURS. The Holy
Spirit &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and I&rsquo;m going to remind you, that which is nothing more
than your right Mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit has ONE direction for ALL minds, and the one He taught
me is YOURS.
</div>

The direction.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Let us not lose sight of His direction through illusions, for only
illusions of another direction can obscure the one for which God&rsquo;s
Voice speaks in all of us.
</div>

What&rsquo;s the direction that God&rsquo;s Voice speaks for in all of
us? It speaks for the Excellence Of You. It speaks for the Truth About
You, just as I do. It speaks for your Awakening, because it has been
held in trust while you have dallied with the ego.

And what has it been held in trust for? To be there to remind you, to
remember for you What You Are. It is What You Are standing ready to
address the you you think you are and help you remember that
you&rsquo;re more than what you think you are, so that you can come back
into your right Mind, so that Sanity can return. So that you are not
split into the Holy Spirit that you don&rsquo;t think is part of you and
an ego that you think is what you are.

The Holy Spirit speaks of one direction and that is the return of your
Sanity to your Conscious Awareness. Reintegration.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Never accord the ego the power to interfere with the journey because it
HAS none, since the journey is the way to what is true. Leave ALL
deception behind, &hellip;
</div>

Hm. Where&rsquo;d that come from? Deception?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Leave ALL deception behind&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; well, when you say, &ldquo;Hm. This table is matter. It has
nothing to do with God. It was made out of the elements of the earth
which came from the big bang,&rdquo; oh, if you don&rsquo;t think
you&rsquo;re deceiving yourself, you&rsquo;ve got another thing coming.
That&rsquo;s pure deception. You said, &ldquo;I choose to look at this
without God.&rdquo; Or, &ldquo;I wish, I choose to look at that tree
without God. And without God it appears to me to be such-and-such. And I
believe it. And I agree with that. That is what it is.&rdquo;
That&rsquo;s pure self-deception. Anything you do, anything you think
which leaves God out of the picture means you are having a
misperception. And you&rsquo;re deceiving yourself when you choose to
believe that that&rsquo;s all there is to what you&rsquo;re looking at.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Leave ALL deception behind&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; well, that&rsquo;s where the first lesson of the Course comes
into play. &ldquo;Nothing that I see means anything.&rdquo; You&rsquo;ve
got to be willing to look at everything and say, &ldquo;What I think
that is doesn&rsquo;t mean anything. That doesn&rsquo;t mean what I
think it does. The meaning I&rsquo;ve given to it is meaningless.&rdquo;

So you leave all deception behind by saying, &ldquo;Father, or, Holy
Spirit, what is this? What is this table truly? What is going on there
where I see a tree?&rdquo; That&rsquo;s the way you:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Leave ALL deception behind, and reach beyond all attempts of the ego to
hold you back. I go before you because I AM beyond the ego. Reach,
therefore, for my hand because you WANT to transcend the ego.
</div>

Well, that simply means you want to transcend illusions. You want to get
out of the realm of deceptions. You don&rsquo;t want to be ignorant. You
don&rsquo;t want to be insane.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
My will will NEVER be wanting, and if you WANT to share it, you WILL.
</div>

In other words, as impossible as you think it might be to connect with
me, as much as you might wish that this is a special talent or a special
gift given to Paul, you will not reach for me and you will not have the
experience. It&rsquo;s not special.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; if you WANT to share it, you WILL.
</div>

It will happen.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I give it willingly and gladly because I need you as much as you need
me.
</div>

And don&rsquo;t tell me that if I was Whole, if I was truly Awake and
knew of my Wholeness, I wouldn&rsquo;t need you.

Why would I need you? What would that mean? It means that it is clear to
me that you are me. I am you. We are One. And for you to be holding
yourself incommunicado, at a distance, doesn&rsquo;t represent Reality,
doesn&rsquo;t represent the Truth. Dare to let yourself feel the need of
your Father and your Brothers and Sisters and of All Creation As God Is
Being It. Let yourself feel the need.

And quit going through your day as though you are truly self-sufficient,
unto yourself, and as though you understand what everything is, and you
are correct, and that therefore the misery and the stress and the strife
that you feel is normal. And there&rsquo;s not really an alternative to
it. Don&rsquo;t get stuck there for the sake of independent
self-righteousness, or self-righteous independence, which constitutes a
prison, not Freedom.

I am here to make the Gift of Freedom. You are here to make the Gift of
Freedom. You are here to embody the Truth, rather than misperceptions,
illusions and deceptions. And you are the only ones who can cut through
the illusions, misperceptions and deceptions by doing something new, by
doing something dependent. [said softly and gently] Come on. If
you&rsquo;re suffering from independence, the healing will come through
dependence. I know you&rsquo;re capable of comprehending that.

I&rsquo;m going to say something in closing. Give up on asking,
&ldquo;Why did he talk about that instead of this? Why didn&rsquo;t he
talk about what I needed him to talk about? Why didn&rsquo;t he talk
about with what I thought would be the next logical step?&rdquo;
That&rsquo;s not called yielding. That&rsquo;s not called trust.
We&rsquo;re coming Home purposely and consciously with intelligent
intent and in a manner that will work.

I love you. I remember Who You Are. I know Who You Are because I have
not forgotten. And I make the Gift of my remembrance, not just in the
words that come out of Paul&rsquo;s mouth, but in the within-ness of you
and in your hearts. And I&rsquo;m doing that all the time. I am with you
all the time. I am with all of you all the time. No one gets slighted.
You might wonder how on earth I could be with everyone at the same time.
And I&rsquo;ll tell you, it&rsquo;s not only easy; it&rsquo;s, for lack
of better words, automatic when you stop holding yourself apart from
everything in your commitment to independence.

I look forward to being with you next week.

[^1]: T8.4 The Light of the World

