---
title: Oct 10, 2004
ref: "T8.5 The Power of Joint Decision"
alink: "/acim/text/08/chap0805/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who is joining us on the Internet.

Remember as we&rsquo;re reading this section that all of this discussion
is going on in a chapter entitled, &ldquo;The Journey Back,&rdquo; which
could also be called &ldquo;The Journey Home,&rdquo; or which could be
called, &ldquo;You coming back into your Right Mind.&rdquo;

This section won&rsquo;t deal with complex psychological concepts and
ideas. You might not even think it to be particularly deep, but
it&rsquo;s meant to convey a feeling rather than an
understanding&mdash;a feeling that you may not be able to easily put to
words. Remember that waking up is not an intellectual process. All the
words are ever for is to bring you to a point where you can dare to
relinquish control, where you can arrive at a point of daring to
relinquish the exercise of authority, because in the absence of the
exercise of authority and control, you immediately become susceptible to
that wonderful experience called inspiration. Indeed, revelation.

This section is called:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*The Power of Joint Decision*[^1]
</div>

And of the two subjects&mdash;the one in the Sparkly Book and the First
and Second Edition&mdash;this is the preferable heading rather than
&ldquo;The Treasure of God.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
WE &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning you and I. Or, &ldquo;WE&rdquo; meaning you and your
Guide. But right now we will say &ldquo;WE&rdquo; meaning you and I
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; are the joint will of the Sonship, whose wholeness is for all.
</div>

The Joint Will of the Sonship is a Singularity. It&rsquo;s not a
conglomeration of wills. It&rsquo;s not an accumulation of individual
wills that have all decided to work in harmony with each other while
still maintaining their autonomy. The Joint Will of the Sonship is each
Son and Daughter of God experiencing being not intelligent but
Intelligence, experiencing being Wisdom, experiencing being
Joy&mdash;things which cannot in actuality be independent experiences
because they can&rsquo;t be a possession. They are What You Are, not
what you have.

You are Intelligence. You don&rsquo;t have Intelligence. And
Intelligence is the experience of, for lack of better words, mental
balance, mental equilibrium, a capacity to be conscious of everything
without losing your balance, the experience of being conscious of
everything and being aware that it&rsquo;s all you. Not you having an
independent experience of it, but that Intelligence is the constituting
Presence of you and of every thing. And no one thing has more or less of
it. And no one thing has any different aspect of it. When you&rsquo;re
experiencing the Joint Will of the Brotherhood, you&rsquo;re
experiencing a Unity with everything together with the Conscious
Experience that every thing is having a Conscious Experience of Unity
with you without division or separation of any kind.

When you join with me, when you yield up the belief and practice of a
separate will, and you do not hold yourself apart from me and I am not
holding myself apart from you, we are Intelligence. We are Intelligence.
We are Love. And we are the Joint Love of the Sonship, the Joint Will of
the Sonship. In other words, when you do it with me, you do it with all
of the Brotherhood. You don&rsquo;t get to have a special relationship
with me. The moment you have a Real Relationship with me, you have a
Relationship with the Whole.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
WE are the joint will of the Sonship, whose wholeness is for all. We
begin the journey back by setting out &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; how?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; TOGETHER&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; not independently side by side, but TOGETHER &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and gather in our brothers as we CONTINUE together.
</div>

Another important point. This joining between you and me is not for a
little hit of inspiration, not for a little hit of enlightenment whereby
you can go back walking along the path by yourself with some fresh
insight. It&rsquo;s the beginning of a permanent Union.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
We begin the journey back by setting out TOGETHER, and gather in our
brothers as we CONTINUE together. Every gain in our strength is offered
for all, so they, too, can lay aside their weakness and add their
strength to us.
</div>

Now this isn&rsquo;t strength to overcome anything. It&rsquo;s strength
in the sense of the Conscious Experience of Integrity, of being
integrated, of not being DISintegrated. It&rsquo;s the strength, you
might say, of the Indivisible Unity of the Brotherhood, of the Sonship,
that is true of the Whole Sonship. It&rsquo;s an Experience of
Invulnerability. Invulnerable because it is obvious as a Conscious
Experience that there is nothing opposing it.

Of course, when this is offered for all so that they can lay aside their
weakness, it is going to seem to them as though they&rsquo;re having to
lay aside not their weakness but their strength. They will think that
they&rsquo;re going to have to lay aside their authority. They think
they&rsquo;re going to have to lay aside self-defense. They think
they&rsquo;re going to lay aside everything that has caused them to be
fairly invulnerable or safe, which is going to mean to them that
they&rsquo;re going to have to move into an unsafe arena. And there will
be fear.

There is fear with you. But you have come with me far enough to find
that your fear, that your belief of fear, of being vulnerable, was not
entirely true. And so you dare to risk the chance a little bit more than
newcomers. You dare to risk the chance more that there will be safety in
your joining with me, or your joining with the Holy Spirit, or your
joining with your Guide, and relinquishing the private autonomous
authority that you have come to believe is all-important to your safety.

And so, as we move along and others come into view and the opportunity
is for them to join, it is going to take compassion and understanding on
your part, so that you might persist in the face of their fear and
encourage them to see that it just might be safe. And there just might
be, for lack of better words, a payoff bigger than they&rsquo;re
expecting if they will risk the chance that there is a God and let Him
back in, and begin to rely upon Him and yield to Him with ongoing
commitment.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God&rsquo;s welcome waits for us all, and He will welcome us as I am
welcoming you. Forget not the Kingdom of God for anything the world has
to offer. The world can add nothing to the power and the glory of God
and His holy Sons, but it CAN blind the Sons to the Father if they
behold it.
</div>

Now, let&rsquo;s continue to be clear here. The world that this is
referring to is the world you have made-up as an independent viewpoint,
an independent concept, an independent definition created by you after
you got the bill of divorcement from the Father and forgot Who You Were.
What you have created in your mind and overlaid upon the Kingdom of
Heaven can add nothing to the Power and the Glory of God and His Holy
Sons. But, this world that you have made-up, imagined, and defined, can
blind the Sons to the Father if they behold it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You cannot behold the world and know God.
</div>

Or, you cannot behold the world you have made-up in your mind, you
cannot behold the definitions of the Kingdom of Heaven that you have
made-up that are different from What The Kingdom Of Heaven Is and know
God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Only One is true.

I am come to tell you that the choice of which is true is not yours.
</div>

Your great acts of independent creativity, the creativity that has come
up with definitions of the Kingdom of Heaven that are at odds with What
the Kingdom Of Heaven Is are just that&mdash;imaginative illusions. You
can&rsquo;t choose for it to be real. But you can choose to ignore What
Is Real in favor of your definition because you think it feels so good
to have been able to be creative on your own.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I am come to tell you that the choice of which is true is not yours. If
it were, you would have destroyed yourselves. Yet God did not will the
destruction of His creations, having created them for eternity. His Will
has saved you, not from yourselves, but from your ILLUSIONS of
yourselves.
</div>

And I would add: Not from your world, but your illusions of the world.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He has saved you FOR yourselves. Let us glorify Him Whom the world
denies, for over His Kingdom it has no power. No-one created by God can
find joy in anything EXCEPT the eternal. That is not because he is
deprived of anything else, but because nothing else is WORTHY of him.
What God and His Sons create IS eternal, and in this and this only is
their joy.

Listen to the story of the prodigal son, and learn what God&rsquo;s
treasure is and YOURS: This son of a loving father left his home
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you&rsquo;ve got a bill of divorcement &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and thought he squandered everything for nothing of any value,
although he did not know its worthlessness at the time. He was ashamed
to return to his father because he thought he had hurt him. Yet when he
came home, the father welcomed him with joy because only the son himself
WAS his father&rsquo;s treasure.
</div>

Not the wealth that the son thought he had squandered.	

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the father &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; WANTED nothing else.

God wants only His Son &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; God wants only you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; because His Son is &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you are &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; His only treasure. You want YOUR creations as He wants HIS.
Your creations are your gift to the Holy Trinity, created in gratitude
for YOUR creation. They do not leave you any more than you have left
YOUR Creator, but they EXTEND your creation as God extended Himself to
YOU. Can the creations of God Himself take joy in what is not real?
</div>

No. And that&rsquo;s why you don&rsquo;t experience a lot of joy.
Because you&rsquo;re insisting on making what isn&rsquo;t real, real.
And you do it all for the sake of trying to save your right to be
autonomous. And at the bottom line to prove to God that because you are
his Son or Daughter, you can speak with God&rsquo;s Authority without
including God. It is amusing. And it&rsquo;s good to know it&rsquo;s
amusing rather than to think it is a sin for which you will spend
eternity damned in hell. It&rsquo;s an amusing foible of the mind which
is easily correctable. Correctable by breaking the isolation and
deciding to join with the Holy Spirit, or to join with me, or to join
with God. And then leaning into that decision, you might say, so that
more and more of your day is spent not making decisions by yourself.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your creations are your gift to the Holy Trinity&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; to the whole, in other words &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; created in gratitude for YOUR creation.
</div>

Well, let me put it this way. When you break the isolation and you begin
to experience the influx of inspiration, of inspired consciousness,
there is a Joy that you feel that overflows the boundaries you might
have thought there were to your mind and get extended to everyone and
everything. And I mean by that that you are aware of having a brand-new
experience of everyone and everything that is illuminated by the
inspiration that has flowed through you. That Gift is your Creation. And
it&rsquo;s a Creation that happens because you have spontaneous
gratitude to God for What You Are, for what you are finding you are in
that State of Inspiration.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
They &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your creations. In other words, the extension of joy and
gratitude that flows uninhibitedly out embracing everything.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
They do not leave you any more than you have left YOUR Creator, but they
EXTEND your creation as God extended Himself to YOU. Can the creations
of God Himself take joy in what is not real? And what IS real except the
creations of God &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and those which are created like His? YOUR creations love you
as your Soul loves your Father for the gift of creation.
</div>

Your Soul loves your Father for the Gift of its Creation. That
experience is what occurs when you annul the bill of divorcement from
the Father and let Him in once again. Your Soul loves your Father for
the Gift of its Creation and for the Gift of Creation as the spontaneous
Movement of Being that It/You is.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There IS no other gift which is eternal, and therefore there is no other
gift which is TRUE.
</div>

Now what we&rsquo;re talking about here is that as you abandon autonomy
and you join with me, or the Holy Spirit, or the Father, you move into a
Conscious Experience of Singularity in which Creation is a Shared
Experience. You and God constitute a Shared Experience of Creation. You
share the Movement of Creation that God Is Being. And out of gratitude
and out of joy it bubbles forth and overflows from you. And together you
be the Singular Movement of Creation.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
How, then, can you ACCEPT anything else or GIVE anything else, and
expect joy in return? And what else but joy would you WANT? You made
neither yourself nor your function. You made only the DECISION to be
unworthy of both.
</div>

You see, the only decision that you individually could make would be a
decision to act at odds with the Father. The moment &hellip; because
there is no decision to be made as the Son or Daughter of God, you
joined with the Father find yourself not faced with decisions&mdash;just
the emergence of Joy and Gratitude and Awe and Bliss and Love that
embraces everyone and everything. That is your Gift. And that is what
you create. That is your Creation. But your Creation is only the
Illumination of the Movement of God in you. I say &ldquo;only&rdquo; and
that might make it sound minimal. [gentle laughing] It is only that but
that is an Infinite Gift.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You made only the DECISION to be unworthy of both. Yet you could not
make YOURSELF unworthy, because you are the treasure of God. What HE
values IS valuable.
</div>

Do you hear that?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What HE values IS valuable.
</div>

Because He is the One Who determines the Meaning of everything. And
therefore, at this very moment, no matter how you are thinking of
yourself, no matter how poorly you are defining yourself in your mind,
you are wrong!

Ann! Wake her up. I want you to hear this.

No matter what you are thinking about yourself, no matter how you might
be perceiving yourself, no matter how poorly you might be defining
yourself, you are valued by God. And that means that your current
definitions of yourself are not true.

You are welcome &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What HE values IS valuable. There can BE no question of its worth
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in other words, there can be no question of your worth &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; because its value lies in God&rsquo;s sharing Himself with it,
and ESTABLISHING its value forever.
</div>

You are the Visibility and Tangibility of God. Therefore, you are
valuable. And that&rsquo;s unchangeable. And it is not egotistical or
arrogant to think of yourself that way. It is unworthy of you for you to
think poorly of yourself and believe your belief.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
YOUR function is to add to God&rsquo;s treasure by creating YOURS.
</div>

Well, what would your treasure be? Your treasure would be to let the
Fullness of the Perfect Movement of Creation of God to find expression
through you. And not minimize it or distort it by some bias or personal
tiny preference that you might bring to bear upon the Movement of
God&rsquo;s Presence.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
YOUR function is to add to God&rsquo;s treasure by creating YOURS. His
Will TO you is His Will FOR you. He would not withhold creation from you
because HIS joy is in it. You cannot find joy EXCEPT as God does. HIS
joy lay in creating YOU, and He extends His Fatherhood to you so that
you can extend yourself as He did.
</div>

Well, there isn&rsquo;t anything for you to extend but what the Father
has extended to you: Intelligence, Love, Wisdom, Joy, Peace&mdash;in as
many ways as come to you for expression.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You do not understand this because you do not understand HIM. No-one who
does not know his function can understand it, and no-one CAN know his
function unless he knows who he IS.
</div>

Who are you? Well, in spite of your bill of divorcement, you are the Son
or Daughter of God. You are that which has the Function of embodying All
That God Is Being right where you are, and letting it out into
expression. That&rsquo;s What You Are. The place where God shines
through. The place where all that is Good and Holy, meaning Whole. The
place where Love shines through, is embodied. The place where
Intelligence is embodied. The way &hellip; the place where embrace
occurs, inclusion occurs, joining occurs.	

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Creation is the Will of God. His Will created you to create.
{: .omit}

Your will was not created separate from His, and so it wills as HE
wills.

An &ldquo;unwilling will&rdquo; &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; which is the definition of an ego.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
An &ldquo;unwilling will&rdquo; does not mean anything, being a
contradiction in terms which actually leaves nothing. When you THINK you
are unwilling to will with God, YOU ARE NOT THINKING. God&rsquo;s Will
IS thought. It cannot be contradicted BY thought. God does not
contradict HIMSELF, and His Sons, who are like Him, cannot contradict
themselves OR Him. Yet their thought &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your thought &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is so powerful that they can even imprison the minds of
God&rsquo;s Sons, IF THEY SO CHOOSE.
</div>

And so if you choose to imagine that you&rsquo;ve gotten a bill of
divorcement from the Father and you can act and decide and define what
everything is on your own, you can blind yourself to Reality. You can
imprison the Son Of God That You Are in a costume that says you are
mortal, subject to sin, disease, and death, living in a hostile world
which you must use your wits to protect yourself from and survive in,
and perhaps achieve some form of success.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This choice DOES make the Son&rsquo;s &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; it does make your Function unknown to you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This choice DOES make the Son&rsquo;s function unknown to HIM, but NEVER
to his Creator. And BECAUSE it is not unknown to his Creator, it is
forever knowable to him.
</div>

In other words, because your Function is not unknown to your Creator, it
is forever knowable to you. And it&rsquo;s available at every moment.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is no question but one you should ever ask of
yourself;&mdash;&rdquo;Do I WANT to know my Father&rsquo;s Will for
me?&rdquo;
</div>

Well, I&rsquo;ll tell you that very often Paul says, &ldquo;No!&rdquo;
And very often you say, &ldquo;No! But, Father, I&rsquo;d rather do it
myself. I know how to handle this. I don&rsquo;t need you to hold my
hand when I take a pee. I know how to do that.&rdquo; Whew! Hey, why not
have a Friend with you when you take a pee? Why not have a Friend with
you all the time? Why endure the experience of loneliness that always
accompanies acts of independence and isolation?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is no question but one you should ever ask of
yourself;&mdash;&rdquo;Do I WANT to know my Father&rsquo;s Will for
me?&rdquo; HE will not hide it. He has revealed it to me because I asked
it of Him, and learned of what He had already given.
</div>

And this is why I can remember for you. And when you let it in, that
will be why you can remember for your Brother. And that&rsquo;s how the
dominoes begin to fall and Awakening becomes an epidemic.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Our function is to function together because, APART from each other, we
cannot function at all.
</div>

When you act on your own, Creation isn&rsquo;t occurring. When you act
on your own, nothing is happening of the sort you think that
you&rsquo;ve created as an event. Creation As The Father Is Being It is
&hellip; continues to happen right in the face of your attempts to act
independently and authoritatively and creatively. Mm. You can sit in
your living room and close your eyes and imagine that you&rsquo;re
bungee jumping off of one of the highest bridges, and you can create for
yourself all of the sensations of falling, and even of fear. And you can
imagine that you come as close to hitting the bottom as is possible
without hitting it and you can get a real thrill from it. But the fact
is through it all nothing happened.	

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The whole power of God&rsquo;s Son lies in all of us&hellip;
</div>

And this is the important point.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; but not in any of us alone.

The whole power of God&rsquo;s Son lies in all of us, but not in any of
us alone. God would not have us be alone because HE does not will to be
alone. That is why He created His Son, and gave him the power to create
with Him.
</div>

Is that clear?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God would not have us be alone &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that means that every idea you have embraced that suggests that
you are an independent entity and it is something to be proud of, will
be undermined, broken down, and disintegrated. And you must allow it to
happen.

And you must be willing to question the idea that competition is valid
and valuable. Because competition can only occur between independent
entities who have the function or purpose of developing skill that is
always greater than someone else and which believes that the
strenuousness of the exercise of competition improves you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God would not have us be alone &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; let that sink in and give it your attention so that you can
realize how far reaching that is and the way it flies in the face of a
great deal of what is taught to your children in schools. It&rsquo;s
competition. It&rsquo;s a form of survival of the fittest. You&rsquo;d
better work hard, so you can rise to the top of your class, so that you
can get into the best college, so that you can demand the highest
salary, and be the best in your world, towering over everyone else if at
all possible. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">	
God would not have us be alone because HE does not will &hellip;

&hellip; HE does not will &hellip;

&hellip; to be alone. That is why He created His Son, and gave him the
power to create with Him.
</div>

Now your capacity to create includes as one of your Creations the
ability to make the Gift of the recognition of the value of your Brother
because you both have the same Father. And you are both equal in the
Father, because the Father has given ALL That He Is, embodied ALL That
He Is in each of you. And each of you taking your place in that equality
allows you not to possess a better intelligence than others, but it
allows you to be Intelligence Itself which cannot be compared, and in
which there is no potential for evaluating different Aspects of Creation
and finding some to be better than others, and some to be faulty, and
some to be lacking.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Our creations &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the gifts that we give. The capacity to recognize God in
everything we see. That&rsquo;s our Creation&mdash;the Gift of That
Recognition.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Our creations are as holy as we are, and we are the Sons of God Himself,
and therefore as holy as He is. Through our creations we extend our
love, and thus increase the joy of the Holy Trinity. You do not
understand this for a very simple reason. You who are God&rsquo;s own
treasure do not regard yourselves as valuable. Given this belief, you
cannot understand ANYTHING.
</div>

Why? Because you can&rsquo;t see anything As It Is.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I share with God the knowledge of the value HE puts upon you. My
devotion to you is of Him, being born of my knowledge of myself AND Him.
</div>

We could put this another way. Your devotion to your Brother is of Him,
being born of my Knowledge of myself and Him which has been extended to
you, and therefore has become your Knowledge of yourself and Him.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
We cannot BE separated. Whom God has joined cannot be separated, and God
has joined all His Sons with Himself. Can you be separated from your
life and your being?
</div>

That&rsquo;s What You Are. You are Being. You are the Movement of Being.
You are the Conscious Experience of Being. You&rsquo;re not a being.
You&rsquo;re the very Movement of Life Itself.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The journey to God is merely the reawakening of the knowledge of WHERE
you are always, and WHAT you are forever.
</div>

We could say the Journey to God is merely the reawakening of the
Knowledge of where you always have been and what you have forever been.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is a journey without distance, to a goal that has never changed.
</div>

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The journey to God is merely the reawakening of the knowledge of WHERE
you are always, and WHAT you are forever. It is a journey without
distance, to a goal that has never changed.
</div>

The return Home is a return to a State of Mind in which you are
included, everything is included. And it is all embraced in an
unwavering, unchanging, and uninterruptible Love. It is your own Mind
experiencing Sanity, Integration, Integrity, Invulnerability because
there is nothing beside It, in which All of Creation, including every
single one of your Brothers, is experienced, as I&rsquo;ve said before,
as Family, not opponents.

Your journey Home, like that of the Prodigal Son, is one of coming
closer and closer to the Conscious Experience of the fact that the
Father&rsquo;s Love for you has never changed. And that what you thought
He loved is not what He loved. And what you thought He didn&rsquo;t
love, namely naughty little you, He never stopped loving.

So this movement Home is a movement which is enveloped in Love. One in
which you should increasingly feel the experience of being loved for no
good reason. I mean by that that you should find yourself experiencing
love not because you have done something well, not because you have
acquired enough skill and have spiritualized yourself enough to be
worthy of it as you get closer to Home having lifted yourself up by your
own bootstraps. No.

Be willing to remember Who You Are, the Divine and Holy Son of God, God
Embodied. By you? No. By God. Therefore the Gift of God is fully given
to you as you. And that is what it&rsquo;s your Birthright to be
experiencing. And in the experience of it, finding yourself unable to
withhold that same embrace from your Brothers and Sisters. And thus
engage in Creation by the extension of your Gifts.

We&rsquo;re going to stop there for this evening. And I want you to
abide in the feeling that has been conveyed. And I suggest to you that
you read this section over during the coming week to remind yourself of
the feeling. Because the feeling is part of what will help you dare to
abandon the practice of self-defense, and to abandon the practice of
control, and the practice of being totally committed to the definitions
you have given everything, so that in the absence of that commitment you
might be inspired.

I love you. And I look forward to being with you next week. It&rsquo;s
always good to be with you.

[^1]: T8.5 The Power of Joint Decision

