---
title: Oct 17, 2004
ref: "T8.5 The Power of Joint Decision"
alink: "/acim/text/08/chap0805/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

Very important first sentence.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*Truth can only be EXPERIENCED.*[^1]
</div>

I&rsquo;ve talked about this before, the fact that Truth isn&rsquo;t a
linear, intellectual explanation of something that through reason you
understand. Truth is an experience. I&rsquo;m going to put it this way.
Truth is the experience of What A Thing Is, an experience in which the
whole of What That Thing Is is fully disclosed to you. And what that
thing is not finds no abiding place in your awareness. Truth, therefore,
is the undistorted, unbound Conscious Awareness of Something. I have
referred to it as Knowing, with a capital &ldquo;K&rdquo;, which is
different from understanding.

When you see the table, when you see your Brother or Sister, when you
see your fingernail, when you see the sky or the trees, and your
experience of what you&rsquo;re seeing is utterly and completely whole,
you are experiencing the Truth. And as I&rsquo;ve also said before, when
you have that experience, that undistorted experience of something, you
unavoidably have the experience of your oneness with it.

That&rsquo;s part of the whole experience of a thing. You will never be
left out of the experience of a thing. You will never find yourself to
be an observer of the thing. You will have&mdash;and the word
&ldquo;experience&rdquo; is a shallow word compared to the
experience&mdash;you will have the experience of What A Thing Divinely
Is from which you will in no way feel separated. And you will also know
that it&rsquo;s an Experience of God. That is the Experience of Truth.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Truth can only be EXPERIENCED. It cannot be described, and it cannot be
explained.
</div>

So if somebody says, &ldquo;Well, let me tell you what the Truth
is,&rdquo; you know that whatever follows cannot possibly be the Truth.
You want to speak to someone who says, &ldquo;I will be with you from
the Place of Excellence in me that uncovers the Place of Excellence in
you, so that you might be susceptible to the Experience of Truth.&rdquo;
Whether that person says that or not, that&rsquo;s who you want to be
with.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I can make you aware of the CONDITIONS of truth, but the experience is
of God.
</div>

In other words, Truth is a revelation.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Together we can meet its conditions, but truth will dawn upon you of
itself.
</div>

Now let me ask you something. If It&rsquo;s not something that can be
explained or understood, how are you going to approach the Experience of
Truth? By trying to figure out What It Is? No. The only way you&rsquo;re
going to be able to approach It is by becoming quiet and abandoning
everything you ever thought the Truth was about whatever you&rsquo;re
considering. And you must then make an invitation for What The Truth Is
about that thing to reveal Itself to you. And then be unconditionally
open to the reception of the revelation. You must invite Truth to reveal
Itself to you, and then you must be open enough to let It reveal Itself.
It is a call for enough humility to shut up and set aside your best
theories, and be ready to experience the unexpected.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What God has willed for you IS yours.
</div>

It&rsquo;s already been willed to you for you. It&rsquo;s already yours.
And what has God willed for you? Truth. The Experience of Truth. It is
God&rsquo;s Will for you to be experiencing everything, including
yourself, As It Is and As You Are. The experience is already yours to
have.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He has given His Will to His treasure&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and you are His Treasure.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He has given His Will to His treasure, whose treasure It is.
</div>

That He has willed to you is your Treasure.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your heart lies where your treasure is, as His does. You who are beloved
of God are wholly blessed.
</div>

Already. Already. Whether you&rsquo;re acting lousy or not, you&rsquo;re
already blessed. You&rsquo;re not likely to experience the blessing
until you&rsquo;re ready to abandon whatever false perceptions of
yourself you are entertaining that are causing you to behave badly. But
the blessing is yours, has been extended to you, and is awaiting your
providing the conditions under which the revelation of the Truth About
You and the Truth About What God Has Willed For You can register with
you.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Learn this of me, and free the holy will of all those who are as blessed
as YOU are.
</div>

The minute you learn it about you, again without a conscious, linear,
reasoned thought, you will immediately be aware that What Is True Of You
is True Of Your Brothers. And you will never again consider your
Brothers in a less &hellip; in a more limited fashion. And so your
Brothers are blessed. Why? Because you will have withdrawn from whatever
mutually-agreed definitions had been arrived at by you and your Brother
that confirm ignorance, confirm misperception.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Learn this of me&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; I can also say learn this of your Guide. But understand that
the only way you&rsquo;ll come Home is together with One Who Is Awake.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Learn this of me, and free the holy will of all those who are as blessed
as YOU are.
</div>

Okay. The next section is called:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*Communication and the Ego-Body Equation*
</div>

For those of you who are in the First and Second Editions, you have a
different heading. But this heading, &ldquo;Communication and the
Ego-Body Equation,&rdquo; identifies the content of the coming section
more explicitly and more upfront.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Attack is ALWAYS physical. When attack in any form enters your mind, you
are EQUATING yourself with a body.
</div>

Well, I imagine some of you are thinking, &ldquo;Mm. Attack is always
physical? Well, I know when I&rsquo;ve experienced being attacked
mentally. I know when I&rsquo;ve experienced having my beliefs attacked.
I&rsquo;ve experienced having what I understand attacked. I&rsquo;ve had
experiences of having my peace undermined and that&rsquo;s not physical.
What do you mean, &lsquo;attack is always physical&rsquo;?&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When attack in any form enters your mind, you are EQUATING yourself with
a body.
</div>

Well, let&rsquo;s make this even more clear. When attack in any form
enters your mind, it means that you are not identifying yourself as One
with the Father. It means that you are identifying yourself as
post-divorce self&mdash;after you&rsquo;ve divorced your Father. It
means you are identifying yourself as what you are experiencing yourself
to be. And naturally, you identify yourself as a body born of a woman,
et cetera.

So if you are experiencing attack, it means that you are in a state of
mind in which you are defining yourself as separate, alone, autonomous,
and, if at all possible, enjoying the autonomy to the max, and the
thrill, as I&rsquo;ve said before, of overcoming this conflicted world
you find yourself in, which only appears to be conflicted because you
are seeing through a lens of selfhood that isn&rsquo;t the Truth. You
are looking at everything through a lens of self-denial, meaning a
denial of What You Truly Are, and therefore an attempt to exist in a
state that is at odds with What You Truly Are. And that conflict is what
you find confronting you when you look through that lens at what?
Reality, the Kingdom of Heaven, the only thing there ever is for you to
be experiencing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When attack in any form enters your mind, you are EQUATING yourself with
a body.
</div>

Mind you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is the ego&rsquo;s INTERPRETATION of the body.
</div>

Don&rsquo;t miss that point. This is the ego&rsquo;s interpretation of
Something that&rsquo;s Real.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You do not have to attack physically to accept this interpretation.
</div>

Of the body.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You are accepting it simply by the belief that attack can GET you
something you want. If you did not believe this, the idea of attack
would have no appeal for you.
</div>

When you are so absolutely positive that you&rsquo;re just a physical
organism with a capacity to understand spiritual things, you are in a
state of lack. First of all, a lack of comprehension of Who You Are.
Secondly and automatically, a lack of Peace. And thirdly, an experience
of everything that is conflicted which you must constantly defend
yourself against. And everything is not yours as it was when you were
awake. And so you must claim your good, you must take possession of your
good. And since from this standpoint, from a physical standpoint, there
is a limited amount of physicality to possess, then you must take it at
the expense of someone else who would possess it.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you equate yourself with a body you will ALWAYS experience
depression.
</div>

Again, when you equate yourself or define yourself as separate from your
Source, you will always experience depression. Again, because
you&rsquo;re in a state of self-denial.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When a Child of God thinks of himself in this way he is belittling
himself and seeing his brothers as similarly belittled. Since he can
find himself ONLY in them, he has cut himself off from salvation.
</div>

Now I know we&rsquo;ve talked about this before, but let&rsquo;s look at
this again.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Since he can find himself ONLY in them, he has cut himself off from
salvation.
</div>

The only way you are ever going to be able to break the isolation from
God is to extend God&rsquo;s Love to your Brother whom you are holding
yourself separate from, and who you see is holding himself or herself
separate from you. And so your salvation lies in having an object of
your affection to whom you extend something True, to whom you extend the
Truth, to whom you extend the Vision of What He Really Is, because in
your extending that Vision to him, you make it True of you. You make it
your own. Why? Because you have accepted it for yourself, and you have
been willing to declare your position, publicly extend the recognition
to your Brother in acts and words and deeds.

Now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Remember that the Holy Spirit interprets the body only as a means of
communication.
</div>

Now the word &ldquo;only&rdquo; is not a belittling word there. It means
that the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s interpretation of the body is pure. It is
not a combination of disintegrated ideas. And so there&rsquo;s nothing
confusing about the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s interpretation of the body.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Remember that the Holy Spirit interprets the body only as a means of
communication. Being the communication link between God and His
separated Sons, the Holy Spirit interprets everything YOU have made in
the light of what HE is. The ego SEPARATES through the body. The Holy
Spirit REACHES THROUGH it to others.
</div>

It doesn&rsquo;t say here that the Holy Spirit sees the body as an
illusion. It doesn&rsquo;t say that the Holy Spirit sees the body as
nonexistent. It says that the Holy Spirit sees it only as What It
Is&mdash;a means of communication.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You do not perceive your brothers as the Holy Spirit does because you do
not interpret their bodies and yours solely as a means of &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; joining their MINDS and uniting them with yours and mine. This
interpretation of the body will change your mind entirely about its
value. Of itself it has NONE.
</div>

In other words, separated from its Function, separated from its Meaning,
it has no Meaning. So it does exist, but it doesn&rsquo;t exist as what
you have believed it existed for.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you use the body for attack, it IS harmful to you. If you use it only
to reach the minds of those who believe they are bodies, and teach them
THROUGH the body that this is not so, you will begin to understand the
power of the mind that is in both of you. If you use the body for this
and ONLY for this, you CANNOT use it for attack.
</div>

You could ask yourself right now, &ldquo;What is Paul using his body for
right now?&rdquo; To reach through it with the Truth. To your bodies?
No. To your Mind. To that which your bodies are simply the Visibility
and Tangibility of.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In the service of uniting, it becomes a beautiful lesson in communion,
which has value until communion IS.
</div>

Meaning until Communion is the permanent Infinite Conscious Experience
Of Being.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is God&rsquo;s way of &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; Unmaking &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; of making unlimited what you have limited.
</div>

You have limited your body by thinking it&rsquo;s a physical organism, a
product of evolution, rather than the Visibility and Tangibility of you
which, while you&rsquo;re feeling separated, you can only truly use in
order to express and embody Love, in the extension of It to your Brother
for the purpose of helping your Brother remember Who He Or She Is, which
is not a body, but the Mind that has no boundary, in which the Conscious
Experience of body is.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit does not see the body as you do &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; it doesn&rsquo;t say, &ldquo;The Holy Spirit doesn&rsquo;t see
the body at all.&rdquo; It says:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit does not see the body as you do because He knows the
ONLY reality anything can have is the service it can render God on
behalf of the function He has given it.
</div>

That&rsquo;s called glorifying God, praising God. Except you know what?
Praising God doesn&rsquo;t mean singing beatitudes. It doesn&rsquo;t
mean saying &ldquo;Glory to God in the Highest.&rdquo; What it means is
looking at your Brother and recognizing the Truth About Your Brother,
having the Experience of Truth About Your Brother, because you&rsquo;re
not harboring private definitions of your own creating that are getting
in the way of it. And as a result of the clear Experience of the Truth
About Your Brother Or Your Sister, you behave in utterly loving ways. I
said, &ldquo;Behave.&rdquo; I didn&rsquo;t say, &ldquo;Think.&rdquo; I
mean acts and words and deeds that embody the meaning of the words,
&ldquo;I love you.&rdquo; That&rsquo;s glorifying God. Because at the
bottom line the experience is &hellip; the Experience of Truth is one of
remembering God when you look in your Brother&rsquo;s eyes.

And so it&rsquo;s in the saying, &ldquo;I love you.&rdquo; It&rsquo;s in
the behavior that embodies &ldquo;I love you.&rdquo; It&rsquo;s in the
attitude and feeling that conveys that you see the utter Infinite Value
of your Brother that constitutes glorifying God.

So if you&rsquo;re thinking about ending up sitting on a cloud strumming
a harp, glorifying God by talking to God about God, forget it. If
that&rsquo;s what you think it is, you&rsquo;re going to walk past your
Brother every day and not recognize the fact that here&rsquo;s your
opportunity to glorify God. Here&rsquo;s your opportunity to fulfill
your Purpose For Being. And you&rsquo;re missing the opportunity to wake
up, because you don&rsquo;t realize that glorifying God is not some
string of religious words sung to religiously slanted music with pipe
organs and instruments that are associated with and chord progressions
that are associated with religious experience. It&rsquo;s you blessing
your Brother because you&rsquo;re recognizing God in him, and then
behaving accordingly.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit does not see the body as you do because He knows the
ONLY reality anything can have is the service it can render God on
behalf of the function He has given it.
</div>

Now why on earth would we be talking about the only Reality anything can
have or the only Reality something can have is the service it can render
when it&rsquo;s talking about the body, if indeed as so many believe,
the Course is saying that the body doesn&rsquo;t exist, that the body is
illusion? No. That is, as you can see, not what the Course is saying.
But the definition you&rsquo;ve given to the body, misperceived from the
vantage point of being an orphan, someone divorced from its Source, that
is an illusion. And that perception does not exist as a fact, even
though it blinds you most definitely from experiencing the Divinity, the
Reality of What The Body Is.

Here it is and I&rsquo;m going to say it again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit does not see the body as you do because He knows the
ONLY reality anything can have is the service it can render God on
behalf of the function He has given it.

Communication ENDS separation. Attack PROMOTES it.
</div>

Now listen to this.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The body is beautiful or ugly, holy or savage, helpful or harmful,
according to the use to which it is put. And in the body of another you
will SEE the use to which you have put yours.
</div>

If you are using your body for the purpose of attack, if you are using
your body for the purpose of demeaning or minimizing the value of your
Brother, you will find your Brother returning attack for attack. And you
will see in his behavior exactly what you&rsquo;ve been doing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If the body becomes for you a means which you give to the Holy Spirit to
use on behalf of union of the Sonship, you will not see anything
physical except as what it is.
</div>

Again, a subtle thing here &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you will not see anything physical except as what it is.
</div>

Spirit. You will not see anything that you have determined to be
physical and not of God. You will see it As It Is&mdash;Spirit. Again,
you will see the parts of the Kingdom of Heaven that you have
determined to be a physical world and universe As It Is&mdash;the
Kingdom of Heaven.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If the body becomes for you a means which you give to the Holy Spirit to
use on behalf of union of the Sonship, you will not see anything
physical except as what it is.
</div>

Except as What It Truly Is. You won&rsquo;t see the misinterpretation of
it anymore.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Use it for truth, and you will see it truly. MISUSE it, and you WILL
misunderstand it because you have already done so BY misusing it.
Interpret ANYTHING apart from the Holy Spirit, and you will mistrust it.
This will lead you to hatred and attack AND LOSS OF PEACE.

Yet all loss comes only from your own misunderstanding. Loss of ANY kind
is impossible.
</div>

Well, your bodies seem to age. They seem to become ill. They seem to be
unstable. And there seems to be no security in it, no permanence to it.
Well, that experience of it is nothing more than the perception you must
have if you are not seeing What It Truly Is. If you&rsquo;re thinking
that it is just a physical organism from a sperm and an egg, you are
misunderstanding What It Is. Because What It Is is the Visibility and
Tangibility of your Individuality. And your Individuality is the
Presence of God. And so your body is Divine, and it has a Divine
Function.

And it&rsquo;s Divine Function is Communication. Of what? Communication
of the fact that you are discerning Truth, and extending to your Brother
the Truth, the Divine Truth That You Know About Him, together with the
Love that you cannot possibly lack, having the experience of What The
Truth Of Your Brother Is. The Truth About Your Brother is irresistibly
lovable. And you can&rsquo;t &hellip; you just can&rsquo;t avoid letting
the Love that is arising within you from the Awareness of What He Truly
Is from being extended to him, or extended to her, your Sister.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Loss of ANY kind is impossible. When you look upon a brother as a
physical entity, HIS power and glory are lost TO YOU&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you can&rsquo;t possibly see his Divinity when you are seeing a
physical entity there&mdash;a result of a sperm and an egg.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; HIS power and glory are lost TO YOU, and so are YOURS. You HAVE
attacked him&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; why? Because you have withheld the acknowledgement of What He
Truly Is. You&rsquo;re insisting on seeing him according to the
definitions that have been given to you that you have accepted and
adopted since you forgot Who You Were. And so by withholding the
acknowledgement of the Truth Of Him, but still trying to relate with
him, you have no choice but to relate in terms of attack, in terms of
demeaning What Is True About Him, because the expression of What Is True
About Him will never come out of your mouth. Do you see? By never
stating the Truth, by never communicating the Truth to your Brothers,
but still relating to your Brothers, that relating must be a constant
rehearsal of what isn&rsquo;t true about your Brother. It&rsquo;s that
simple. And that is an attack.

&ldquo;Oh, well. What do you expect? You know, you&rsquo;re just a human
being. What do you expect? You know, some brains are faultier than
others. You know, what can you expect? Of course you&rsquo;re going to
behave the way you are. Of course you&rsquo;re not going to have better
experiences than you have. You know, you&rsquo;re likely to be one of
the people who will have Alzheimer&rsquo;s and get it early. You know,
what can you expect? You&rsquo;re just a physical organism, you
know.&rdquo;

Or maybe not quite so bluntly negative. &ldquo;Oh, I love you, you poor
dear. And you know what? No matter what happens, I&rsquo;ll be here for
you. It&rsquo;s gonna get rough, I know. But you know what? I&rsquo;ll
always be here for you. My love is undying for you. Right up to the last
minute I&rsquo;ll be with you!&rdquo; [laughing] Isn&rsquo;t that
encouraging? [laughing] Doesn&rsquo;t that give you a wonderful sense of
enduring love and a real meaning of what can give you peace? See,
it&rsquo;s a friendlier thing to say, [laughing] but it&rsquo;s
depressing, isn&rsquo;t it? Isn&rsquo;t that an attack?

It&rsquo;s an attack when you finally find out that there&rsquo;s
something else you can be doing instead. When you didn&rsquo;t know
there was anything else you could be doing instead, you were doing the
best you could under poor circumstances. And yes, it was loving kindness
that was being expressed, but it&rsquo;s not your Birthright to
deteriorate and die. And therefore, you need someone who will stand with
you in the horribleness of what life turns out to be because your
Birthright is to be experiencing What You Divinely Are, the Eternality
of Life, the ever-present Vitality of Life, together with the experience
of the awesomeness of every little Aspect of Creation that is thrilling
and invigorating, and which causes you to have an unchallengeable
experience of the worth and value of all Existence. This is your
Birthright. And this is what needs to be communicated to your Brothers
and Sisters. And this is not attack.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you look upon a brother as a physical entity, HIS power and glory
are lost TO YOU, and so are YOURS. You HAVE attacked him, but you MUST
have attacked yourself first.
</div>

You must have demeaned yourself first. You must have defined yourself
and accepted the definition as being something less than What You Truly
Are.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Do not see him this way for your OWN salvation, which must bring him
HIS. Do not allow him to belittle himself in YOUR mind, but give him
freedom from his belief in littleness, and thus escape from YOURS.
</div>

To have, give all to all. Give in order to have. What you give away, you
make yours. Over and over again this lesson.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As part of you, HE is holy. As part of me, YOU are. To communicate with
part of God Himself is to reach beyond the Kingdom to its Creator,
through His Voice Which He has established as part of YOU.
</div>

In other words, you reach to God in your Brother. You reach to God in
your Brother with the Love that God is revealing to you. And thus you
have what I will call a circular completion of communication. God
recognizing Himself. God communicating to Himself All That He Is, and
nothing but What He Is.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To communicate with part of God &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your Brother &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; Himself is to reach beyond the Kingdom to its Creator, through
His Voice Which He has established as part of YOU.

Rejoice, then, that of yourselves you can do nothing. You are not OF
yourselves.
</div>

Yet that&rsquo;s the definition the ego gives you. &ldquo;You are of
yourself. You have created yourself. You are here to make something out
of yourself. You are here through your &hellip; you are here to become
something that you choose to be through the exercise of your will. You
are of yourself and there is nothing else. And you know what? There
doesn&rsquo;t need to be anything else. You are sufficient. And you can
make of yourself whatever you will. The sky is yours. You don&rsquo;t
need anybody else. You don&rsquo;t need anybody else. You are sufficient
unto yourself.&rdquo; And it tells you this, and tells you this, and
tells you this. If you&rsquo;re not careful, you believe it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Rejoice, then, that of yourselves you can do nothing. You are not OF
yourselves. He of Whom you ARE has willed your power and glory FOR you,
with which you can perfectly accomplish His holy Will for you, when you
so will it yourself.
</div>

When you say, &ldquo;Okay, Father,&rdquo; instead of saying, &ldquo;But,
Father, I&rsquo;d rather do it myself.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Okay, Father, I will accept you as my Source so that I might
remember Who I Am as the Expression Of You, and so that I might have the
fullness of the Experience of the Truth Of Me, and not experience false
imprisonment any longer.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; God &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; has not withdrawn His gifts from you, but YOU have withdrawn
them from Him. Let no Son of God remain hidden for His Name&rsquo;s
sake, because His Name is YOURS.
</div>

Let no Son of God remain hidden from you. When you look at your Brothers
and Sisters, do not let the Son of God that he is remain hidden from you
because you&rsquo;re insisting on, like pin the tail on the donkey,
pinning a false identification on him that&rsquo;s been determined by
you to be what that one is. Don&rsquo;t cover up God with your favorite
preconception of your Brother or Sister.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Remember that the Bible says, &ldquo;The Word (or thought) was made
flesh.&rdquo; Strictly speaking this is impossible, since it seems to
involve the translation of one order of reality into another. Different
orders of reality merely APPEAR to exist, just as different orders of
miracles do. Thought cannot be made into flesh except by belief, since
thought is NOT physical. Yet thought IS communication, for which the
body CAN be used. This is the only NATURAL use to which it CAN be put.
</div>

So when it says, &ldquo;The Word was made flesh,&rdquo; you can
understand it to mean: &ldquo;The Word was made communication. The Word
is a Movement of Communication. And the means of Communication is the
body. God&rsquo;s means of communicating What He Is to Himself is called
the Kingdom of Heaven. And It looks like Something. And It&rsquo;s
experienceable as Something to God.&rdquo;

And the ego calls the substance of it &ldquo;matter.&rdquo; But the
Truth is that the Substance of the Infinite Forms of Creation is Spirit.
So you could say, &ldquo;The Word is made communicable, identifiable,
experienceable.&rdquo; That&rsquo;s the True Meaning of, &ldquo;The Word
was made flesh.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Thought cannot be made into flesh except by belief, since thought is NOT
physical. Yet thought IS communication, for which the body CAN be used.
</div>

For which the Visibility and Tangibility of the Idea or Thought can be
used.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is the only NATURAL use to which it CAN be put.
</div>

And that&rsquo;s because that is What Its Function Is. What you call a
rose has the appearance it has because it perfectly identifies the
Function of communicating the Meaning the Father is embodying in that
form. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To use the body unnaturally &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in other words, for attack. And self-defense is attack.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To use the body unnaturally is to lose sight of the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s
purpose, and thus to confuse the goal of His curriculum.
</div>

Now what&rsquo;s the goal of the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s Curriculum? What is
the Holy Spirit? Nothing more than your Right Mind. What is the goal of
the Curriculum of your Right Mind? It&rsquo;s to return your Sanity to
you so that you&rsquo;re experiencing nothing other than your Right
Mind. And you become once again fully integrated with What You Already
Are, but which you aren&rsquo;t experiencing fully because you&rsquo;ve
cordoned off a little section of it and you&rsquo;ve said, &ldquo;This
little part is me and all the Rest Of Me is not me.&rdquo; And when that
happened, all the Rest Of You got a new name&mdash;the Holy
Spirit&mdash;which remains there with one goal on its agenda, and that
is to break down the boundary which you have created to cordon yourself
off, separate yourself off, from the Rest Of You.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To use the body unnaturally is to lose sight of the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s
purpose, and thus to confuse the goal of His curriculum.

There is nothing so frustrating to a learner as to be placed in a
curriculum which he cannot learn. His sense of adequacy suffers, and he
MUST become depressed.
</div>

Well, what might this be referring to? Well, remember there are two
teachers&mdash;the Voice for Truth and the voice for fear&mdash;the Holy
Spirit and the ego. The ego puts you in a learning situation which
can&rsquo;t be accomplished. And so it puts you &hellip; calls you a
learner and it gives you something you cannot learn. You really
can&rsquo;t learn that you&rsquo;re an independent, self-governing,
self-created and self-creating entity. You cannot learn that because it
isn&rsquo;t true.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is nothing so frustrating to a learner as to be placed in a
curriculum which he cannot learn. His sense of adequacy suffers, and he
MUST become depressed.
</div>

And you know what? That is called the human condition. That is what life
is when you&rsquo;re not awake. That&rsquo;s what you&rsquo;re in the
middle of, or beginning to emerge from.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Being faced with an impossible learning situation, regardless of why it
is impossible&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; why is that in there, &ldquo;regardless of why it is
impossible&rdquo;? Because the ego [laughing] can tell you all kinds of
reasons, it can distract you by providing you with all kinds of
justifications for not seeking God, for not waking up.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Being faced with an impossible learning situation, regardless of why it
is impossible, is the most depressing thing in the world.
</div>

You see, you don&rsquo;t want to get sidetracked on discovering all of
the reasons why it&rsquo;s impossible.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In fact, it is ultimately WHY the world is depressing. The Holy
Spirit&rsquo;s curriculum is NEVER depressing because it is a curriculum
of joy. Whenever the reaction to learning is depression, it is only
because the goal of the curriculum has been lost sight of.
</div>

The purpose of everything I&rsquo;m doing and the purpose of the Course
is to re-illuminate the goal, and to re-illuminate the means of
accomplishing the goal. The goal is for you to wake up, to come back
into your Right Mind. And the means of doing that is breaking the
isolation and the treasured concept of autonomy and authority,
independent authority, so that what? You might be willing to release
yourself into that which you don&rsquo;t know, so that you might express
curiosity that reaches beyond the boundaries of the thought system
you&rsquo;re in. So that you might reach beyond the boundaries of the
structures that have been created that hold your prison in place and
give you a false sense of comfort in a place that&rsquo;s not your Home.

Like it says here:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Being faced with an impossible learning situation, regardless of why it
is impossible, is the most depressing thing in the world.
</div>

Regardless of why it&rsquo;s impossible. Don&rsquo;t begin to ask
yourself, &ldquo;Well, how did I get into this situation? How did I get
to be in this impossible situation? How could I possibly have gotten
that screwed up if I was the Christ, the Son or Daughter of God, to
begin with?&rdquo; It doesn&rsquo;t matter! Why doesn&rsquo;t it matter?
Because you&rsquo;re not in it. You&rsquo;re not in an impossible
learning situation. You are the Son or Daughter of God in the middle of
the Kingdom of Heaven who has the means, through desire not to be alone,
to reconnect, for lack of better words, the disintegrated parts of
yourself.

It depends entirely on which teacher you&rsquo;re listening to whether
you experience yourself as being in an impossible learning situation or
not. So don&rsquo;t ask yourself, &ldquo;How did I get into this
impossible learning situation?&rdquo; You didn&rsquo;t. You&rsquo;re not
in it. But you&rsquo;re listening to a teacher who is describing to you
an impossible learning situation and inviting you to take the course.
There&rsquo;s another Teacher. And you can reach out for the other
Teacher. You see what I&rsquo;m saying?

Okay. A lot of meat tonight. Last week was comforting. Tonight is
meat/potatoes night and that doesn&rsquo;t mean you need to have
indigestion. I look forward to being with you next week.

[^1]: T8.5 The Power of Joint Decision

