---
title: Nov 7, 2004
ref: "T8.6 Communication and the Ego-Body Equation"
alink: "/acim/text/08/chap0806/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

As we go through the book, there&rsquo;s basically only one thing
we&rsquo;re talking about, and that is making a shift of identification
from body to Mind. I have pointed out from time to time that body,
world, universe, all of the things that you are aware of, you are aware
of with and in your Mind. It is your Mind which is conscious of it all,
not your body. It is your Mind which is conscious of your body and your
home and your world. But you all identify with the body.

Mind is ever-present, isn&rsquo;t it? As long as you are conscious
it&rsquo;s present. But you give it little attention. You say, &ldquo;I
use my mind&rdquo; in the same way that you would say, &ldquo;I use my
hands,&rdquo; as though it&rsquo;s one of many possessions, instead of
the Ground of your Being, the fundamental of your Conscious Experience
Of Being.

Body and Mind have both been present in your experience, but you have
weighted your attention on the side of your body. There&rsquo;s a good
reason. It&rsquo;s really a bad reason. But there&rsquo;s a reason you
do this, and that is that when you got your bill of divorcement from the
Father, when you said, &ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;d rather see it my
way,&rdquo; and you abandoned the Father&rsquo;s Perspective consciously
and conscientiously by means of developing your own meanings for
everything in your experience, you, as I&rsquo;ve said before, lost your
Conscious Experience of Oneness with everything. You said,
&ldquo;I&rsquo;d rather see it myself,&rdquo; and you drew a boundary
around yourself and suddenly All The Rest Of What You Infinitely Were
became something different from you.

Well, now you look and the only thing that&rsquo;s you is the specific
identification of you, which has always been but it was part of the
Infinitude Of You, but now it&rsquo;s all there is of you. And so you
had to begin to redefine yourself. And your definition of yourself was
based on, built around, this one little part of the Infinitude Of You
that you call your body. So you equate yourself with the body. And if
this equation is carried to its logical conclusion, you believe that
when the body ceases to be alive, you cease to be alive. And so, many of
you, not that many of you here, but many of you in the world believe
that &ldquo;from birth to death&rdquo; is all there is to you.
That&rsquo;s how definite and binding your identification with body has
become.

Now, I&rsquo;m reminding you that this other thing that&rsquo;s in your
experience called your Mind isn&rsquo;t just another thing. It is an
unbounded and therefore Infinite Presence of Mind, Presence of Conscious
Awareness, in which body, world and universe is going on. And I keep
pointing you in the direction of going through your day being more aware
of yourself as Mind, reminding yourself that you are the Consciousness
in which all Conscious Experience is occurring, so that you might have
the opportunity of having that awareness trigger for you what you would
call a reinterpretation of the daily events of your lives. Because
depending upon what you are identifying yourself with, your experience
of everything will be different. And you all deserve a different
experience than the experience of bondage you&rsquo;re presently in.

Last week we spoke &hellip; last time we were together we spoke
extensively about the body being a Means of Communication. It
doesn&rsquo;t exist on its own, for itself. It exists as a vehicle for
the Extension of Communication, the Extension of Meaning, the Extension
of Value, with a capital &ldquo;V&rdquo;. At the bottom line, it is the
means of your engaging in acknowledging What Is True about your Brother,
your Sister and everything that you see. It is the means you have for
recognizing God in each and every thing. That is its Function. But when
you get caught up in preoccupation with the body, you lose its Function,
you become distracted from extending the Acknowledgement of What Is Real
in each and every thing, and you have moved into an attitude of
self-defense. Because as long as you have no contact with the
Infiniteness Of You, you can only be in touch with the limits of you,
the finiteness of you, and consequently your utter vulnerability to
everything. So when you are identifying yourself with your body, you are
engaged in defense.

But you say, &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t feel like I am engaged in
defense.&rdquo; But the simple fact is that when you are preoccupied
with yourself as a body, and making it in the world as a body, and
earning respect as a body, and learning how to be in charge through
force that can be brought to bear by your body, you are not engaged in
connection. You are not engaged in extension. You&rsquo;re not engaged
in the act of recognizing and acknowledging everything That Is Real in
everything that you&rsquo;re looking at. You&rsquo;re preoccupied with
self. If you&rsquo;re not engaged in inclusion of it all, but are
engaged in being separate from it all, you are in a state of
defendedness. It is that simple.

Now let&rsquo;s go to the book. We ended with the statement:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Joy is unified purpose, and unified purpose is ONLY God&rsquo;s. When
yours is unified, it IS His.[^1]
</div>

This means that you will never have, on your own, unified purpose.
There&rsquo;s only one thing called Unified Purpose, and that is God
Being. And if your purpose is unified, it means there is nothing present
blocking or interfering with God&rsquo;s Purpose. You are being a
transparency for God.

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When yours is unified, it IS His. Interfere with His purpose, and you
NEED salvation.
</div>

Well, that&rsquo;s what&rsquo;s called the human condition. You have
interfered with His Purpose by having a purpose of your own, by having a
purpose of wanting to be able to determine what everything is, to
determine how you&rsquo;re going to deal with it, to determine how
you&rsquo;re going to defend yourself, to determine how others better
behave, and on and on.

When you chose to be an authorizer, you chose to ignore the capital
&ldquo;A&rdquo; Author. And you have interfered in His Authority. Now
the fact is you can&rsquo;t interfere with God&rsquo;s Authority. But
when you try to insert an authority of your own between you and
God&rsquo;s Authority, you interfere absolutely with your capacity to
experience the Father&rsquo;s Authorship. You interfere absolutely with
your ability to experience the Source of your Being, and therefore the
Reality of You. And it says here:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you NEED salvation. You have condemned yourself, but
condemnation is NOT of God. Therefore, it is not true. No more are any
of the RESULTS of your condemnation.
</div>

What are the results of your condemnation? Sin, sickness and death.
They&rsquo;re not true. They&rsquo;re simply not true.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you see a brother as a body, you are condemning him BECAUSE you
have condemned yourself.
</div>

In other words, you are seeing him in no larger a way than you are
allowing yourself to see yourself. And if you are allowing yourself to
see yourself in a larger way, you will automatically include your
Brother in that larger view.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you see a brother as a body, you are condemning him BECAUSE you
have condemned yourself. Yet if all condemnation is unreal, and it MUST
be unreal since it is a form of attack, then it can HAVE no results.
</div>

But you know what? [laughing] If you&rsquo;re identifying yourself as a
body and someone else is identifying themselves as a body, and the two
of you look at each other and see the other as a body, and you all agree
to this illusion, you can have a pretty good knockdown, drag-out,
artificial fight. I say &ldquo;artificial&rdquo; because none of it is
real. It&rsquo;s a fantasy that the two of you are playing out with each
other. But it isn&rsquo;t real. And the consequences &hellip; the
apparent consequences of it cannot be real. And as a result, when one of
you breaks the agreement to play this game of fantasy with each other
and one of you remembers the Truth, instantaneous healing of the
apparent results can occur. Why instantaneous? Because there never was
an actual effect that has to be undone. And this is important to
understand because it means that no matter what you might be suffering
from at this moment, you can experience instantaneous relief without
going through some process of healing.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Do not allow yourselves to suffer from the results of what is not true.
Free your minds from the belief that this is POSSIBLE. In its complete
impossibility, and your full awareness OF its complete impossibility,
lie your only hope for release.
</div>

Remember that in order to break the sense that something impossible is
possible, you have to shift from body-identification to
Mind-identification, shifting your attention from the definition of
yourself as a body to your Conscious Experience of Being as the
definition of you, and abiding there and observing everything from
there.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In its complete impossibility, and your full awareness OF its complete
impossibility, lie your only hope for release. But what other hope would
you want? Freedom from illusions lies only in not BELIEVING them. There
IS no attack&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; as an actuality &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; but there IS unlimited communication&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; but you won&rsquo;t shift into unlimited communication as long
as you are identifying yourself as a body.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There IS no attack, but there IS unlimited communication, and therefore
unlimited power and wholeness.
</div>

Well, Wholeness is a State of Invulnerability. It&rsquo;s a State of
Being What God Is Being right there where you are, with the awareness
that it is God Being What You Are right there, with God&rsquo;s
Perspective. There is no vulnerability in that Perspective.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The power of wholeness is &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; extension.
</div>

Using the body as a Means of Communication. Communication of what?
Extension of what? The Acknowledgement of What Is True in what you are
seeing. And how do you see What Is True there? By abandoning your belief
about what is there and asking within of the Father, &ldquo;What are You
being there? What is the Divine Meaning of what I&rsquo;m looking
at?&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The power of wholeness is extension. Do not arrest your thought in this
world, and you will open your mind to creation in God.
</div>

Extension of the Acknowledgement of What Is Real, which is another way
of describing Love. It&rsquo;s something that happens through the body.
If on the way you become preoccupied with the body, the extension will
be arrested. Your attention on that which you are seeing What Is Real in
will be arrested, will be interrupted, because there&rsquo;s an
attention being given to the body.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Do not arrest your thought in this world&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; or in this body &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you will open your mind to creation in God.
</div>

You will open up your mind to the experience of the extension of the
Acknowledgement of What Is Real and the Joy of the experience of making
that extension. And in that experience, you will find God revealed as
your Conscious Experience Of Being. And because you will be introducing
nothing extraneous to it, you will find yourself being the Movement of
Creation. Let me put it this way. You will find yourself being with the
Movement of Creation. And in being with it without introducing anything
extraneous to it, it will be All There Is of you.

It is in this way, and this way only, that you become co-creators with
God. It&rsquo;s not an independent act you do along with God. It&rsquo;s
the absence of independence that allows you to be absolutely at One with
God, and therefore experiencing nothing but What God Is Being. In a way,
this is what Paul is doing right now. So don&rsquo;t think that in doing
it you will suddenly be swept into some nebulous indescribable
experience. What will happen will be that everything you engage in will
be infinitely meaningful. And so here and now is the place to start.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Do not arrest your thought in this world, and you will open your mind to
creation in God.
</div>

You will experience your body as What It Is, not as what you have come
to believe it to be. And you will experience your world as What It Is,
the Kingdom of Heaven, and not what you have come to believe it to be.

The next section is entitled:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*The Body as Means or End*

Attitudes toward the body are attitudes toward ATTACK.
</div>

Well, let me put it this way. Because I know some of you are wondering
what in the &ldquo;you know what&rdquo; that means?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Attitudes toward the body are attitudes toward ATTACK.
</div>

If you have an attitude toward the body, your attention has been
arrested. You&rsquo;re already preoccupied with something other than
making the extension through Communication of the Acknowledgement of God
in whatever it is you&rsquo;re looking at, the Acknowledgment of the
Real capital &ldquo;M&rdquo; Meaning of the thing that you&rsquo;re
looking at. If you have an attitude toward the body, your attention has
already been arrested. And therefore, you are in a defense-mode, which
is the flip side of saying attack-mode. When you&rsquo;re in
defense-mode, you&rsquo;re defended against something.

And just because you&rsquo;re preoccupied with the defense doesn&rsquo;t
mean that the opponent isn&rsquo;t there as an integral part of your
mindset, because if the opponent weren&rsquo;t there you wouldn&rsquo;t
be thinking about defense. &ldquo;Oh, but I&rsquo;m not thinking about
attacking anybody.&rdquo; [small laugh] It doesn&rsquo;t matter. If you
are busy calculating your defense, being preoccupied with your steps of
defense, etc., even though you&rsquo;re thinking of no one in
particular, everyone in general is the reason that you&rsquo;re engaged
in preoccupation with defense.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Attitudes toward the body are attitudes toward ATTACK. The ego&rsquo;s
definitions of EVERYTHING are childish, and always based on what it
believes a thing is FOR.
</div>

And of course when you&rsquo;ve gotten your bill of divorcement and said
you&rsquo;d rather see things your way, you have decided what a thing is
for, you have adopted it, and you believe your definition.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego&rsquo;s definitions of EVERYTHING are childish, and always based
on what it believes a thing is FOR.
</div>

Again, not what it believes a thing is. What a thing is for.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is because it is incapable of true generalizations, and equates
what it sees with the function IT ascribes to it. It does NOT equate it
with what it IS.
</div>

What your body is, is a Means of Communication. What Creation, your
world, is, is the Kingdom of Heaven, not a physical world and universe
that you have defined. But, of course, the ego has as its function not
to see what it is, because the predicate of it all was, &ldquo;Father,
I&rsquo;d rather see it my way, not the way it is.&rdquo;

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To the ego, the body is to ATTACK with. Equating YOU with the body, it
teaches that YOU are to attack with because this is what it believes.
The body, then, is not the source of its own health. The body&rsquo;s
condition lies solely in your interpretation of its function.
</div>

Now that&rsquo;s not true. But as long as you are in that mindset, that
will be your experience. You see, when you&rsquo;re not in that mindset,
you could say that the body is the source of its own health. Because the
body in itself is neutral, is benign, it has no function relative to
itself. It only has function relative to the Communication of
Love&mdash;Love being the recognition or acknowledgement of That Which
Is Real in each and every thing.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The reason why definitions in terms of function are inferior is that
they may well be inaccurate.
</div>

And, of course, any definition that has been applied to something that
is different from What The Father Is Being there is an inaccurate
definition.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Functions are part of being since they arise from it, but the
relationship is not reciprocal. The whole DOES define the part, but the
part does NOT define the whole.
</div>

Which is another way of saying, &ldquo;You are not God, but God is All
There Is of you.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is as true of knowledge as it is of perception.
</div>

Now listen to this.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The reason to KNOW in part is to know ENTIRELY is because of the
fundamental DIFFERENCE between knowledge and perception.
</div>

And you could look at it this way. You can grasp the idea that &ldquo;to
know in part is to know wholly&rdquo; is illustrated in a hologram.
Because if you cut a small part of a hologram away, you&rsquo;ll find
that the whole picture that was in the entire hologram is present in the
part.

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; to KNOW &hellip;
</div>

And I would use a capital &ldquo;K&rdquo; there.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; to KNOW in part is to know ENTIRELY &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The reason to KNOW in part is to know ENTIRELY is because of the
fundamental DIFFERENCE between knowledge and perception. In perception
the whole is built up of parts, which CAN separate and reassemble in
different constellations. Knowledge &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; or Knowing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; never changes, so ITS constellation is permanent.
</div>

And I would add: Its constellation leaves nothing outside of it. It is
all-inclusive. It is Whole.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The only areas in which part-whole relationships have ANY meaning are
those in which change is possible. There IS no difference between the
whole and the part where change is impossible.
</div>

The only place where change is apparently possible is from the frame of
mind in which body-identification predominates. And the only place where
change is impossible is in the frame of reference where it is Mind, the
Conscious Experience Of Being, that identifies you or is your Identity.
If you want variableness, stay with body-identification. If you want,
let&rsquo;s say, permanent harmony, if you want forever stable
experiences of Being, identify with and as Mind. It doesn&rsquo;t mean
stability in which the Movement of Creation doesn&rsquo;t occur. It
isn&rsquo;t God frozen. But it&rsquo;s God, and nothing but God, in
constant Movement, unchanging in Nature, Character, Intent or Actuality.
The Movement of Creation is unchangeably What It Is.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Knowledge never changes, so ITS constellation is permanent.
</div>

Continuing from where we left off.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The body exists in a world which SEEMS to contain two voices which are
fighting for its possession.
</div>

&ldquo;Seems&rdquo; is the key word.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In this perceived constellation, the body is regarded as capable of
shifting its control from one to the other, making the concept of both
health AND sickness possible.
</div>

Now when it says here that &ldquo;the body is regarded as capable of
shifting its control from one to the other,&rdquo; it means the same
thing as you regard yourself as capable of shifting your attention from
one to the other, from one voice to the other, &ldquo;making the concept
of both health and sickness possible.&rdquo; There&rsquo;s where you get
into change. That&rsquo;s where you get into fluctuation. Because you
think you actually have a choice to think for yourself or yield to God.

And when the going gets rough, you yield to God. And when things
straighten up, you think for yourself again. And when you think for
yourself again, you find things getting difficult and you arrive at a
point where you have to decide to yield to God. And you know what
I&rsquo;m telling you? I&rsquo;m telling you that this sense of self
that thinks it can shift its attention from one to the other
doesn&rsquo;t really exist, except in your imagination. You
haven&rsquo;t stopped being the Christ. You haven&rsquo;t stopped being
the Evidence of God.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego makes a fundamental confusion between means and ends, as it
always does. Regarding the body as an end, the ego has no REAL use for
it because it is NOT an end. You must have noticed an outstanding
characteristic of every end that the ego has accepted as its own. When
you have achieved it, IT HAS NOT SATISFIED YOU. This is why the ego is
forced to shift from one end to another without ceasing, so that YOU
will continue to hope that it can yet offer you something.
</div>

This is why waking up can feel like failure. Because it means abandoning
the quest for success as an independent agent. And it&rsquo;s very
humiliating to that which tried to build itself up out of nothing into
something, which was forever an impossibility. Intelligence, dawning
upon the mind, realizes this and doesn&rsquo;t bother to feel guilty and
get sidetracked, but immediately chooses for Sanity and lets go of the
attempt to be something on its own.  Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It has been particularly difficult to overcome the ego&rsquo;s belief in
the body as an end because this is synonymous with the belief in ATTACK
as an end. The ego has a real INVESTMENT in sickness. If you are sick,
how can you OBJECT to the ego&rsquo;s firm belief that you are NOT
invulnerable?
</div>

You see? Being sick isn&rsquo;t real. It&rsquo;s something you have a
right to be free of. And it&rsquo;s something you can be free of
instantaneously because it isn&rsquo;t real. But the ego needs it to be
real, so that it can convince you that you are vulnerable, and therefore
need to defend yourself. And once you take the bait, you&rsquo;re caught
on a merry-go-round that goes nowhere, but exhausts you.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego has a real INVESTMENT in sickness. If you are sick, how can you
OBJECT to the ego&rsquo;s firm belief that you are NOT invulnerable?
This is a particularly appealing argument from the ego&rsquo;s point of
view because it obscures the obvious ATTACK which underlies the
sickness.
</div>

What&rsquo;s the underlying attack? The belief that you&rsquo;re a body.
The belief that you&rsquo;re independent. The belief that you are an
orphan and have no source, and that you are what you&rsquo;re
experiencing yourself as at the moment, which is a body. The attack is
body-identification.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you accepted THIS, and also decided AGAINST attack, you could not
give this false witness to the ego&rsquo;s stand.

It is hard to perceive sickness AS a false witness because you do not
realize that it IS entirely out of keeping with what you want. This
witness, then, APPEARS to be innocent and trustworthy because you have
not seriously cross-examined him.
</div>

Cross-examined sickness.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you did, you would not consider sickness such a strong witness on
behalf of the ego&rsquo;s views. A more honest statement would be as
follows:

Those who WANT the ego &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in other words, those who want to be authorizers, those who
want the thrill, the hit, of creating meaning out of nothing and making
it become truly something.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; are predisposed to defend it. Therefore, their choice of
witnesses should be suspect from the beginning. The ego does not call
upon witnesses who would disagree with its case, NOR DOES THE HOLY
Spirit. We have said that judgment IS the function of the Holy Spirit,
and one which He is perfectly equipped to fulfill. The ego, as a judge,
gives anything BUT an impartial judgment. When the ego calls on a
witness, it has ALREADY made the witness an ally.
</div>

I&rsquo;m going to back up.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego does not call upon witnesses who would disagree with its
case&hellip;
</div>

Now when you are confronted by someone who is identifying himself or
herself as a body and is engaged in defense, being with you as though
you are an opponent whether you&rsquo;re asserting your opposition at
the moment or not, you will find that they will not address What&rsquo;s
True In You. But they will address any little ego beliefs which you
treasure. And, of course, these ego beliefs will not be true. And
because they are beliefs that you as an ego&mdash;one identifying with a
body&mdash;treasure they will call it into question. They will demean
it. They will insult it. Why? So as to call out from you an ego witness
to the one calling it forth.

You may be doing quite well in being clear about the Truth. You may be
doing quite well in staying in your Peace. You may be doing quite well
in staying with the Holy Spirit and letting the Holy Spirit reveal to
you His Perspective, which at the bottom line is your True Perspective.

An ego in defense approaching you, will not want to call forth witnesses
for your Clarity. They will &hellip; the ego will call forth ego
dynamics in you that are not yet put to rest; ego beliefs that you still
intend to defend because you treasure them. This is very important to
understand, because when this happens, it&rsquo;s an invitation for you
to abandon the Holy Spirit or your right Mind. It&rsquo;s an invitation
for you to crawl back into the crab barrel and react from the old habit
of personal self-protection, and the old habit of somehow finding a way
to be equal to or better than the one challenging you, so that you can
once again attempt to have the satisfaction of truly being something on
your own. The ego of another will never seek in you a witness to that
which is in balance in you. And so you must be alert when you find
yourself losing your balance and becoming reactive and willingly
engaging in defense, because the ego of another is making an ally of
that which isn&rsquo;t even real in you and that which you really do not
wish to reengage. But that is the way it happens.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is still true that the body has no function of itself because it is
NOT an end.
</div>

You know what? It&rsquo;s a reflection. It&rsquo;s a reflection of the
Movement of God. It&rsquo;s like the leaves on the trees moving as the
reflection of the movement of the wind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the body has no function of itself because it is NOT an end.
The ego, however, establishes it AS an end because, as such, it will
lose its TRUE function.
</div>

Its True Function of what? Being a Means of Communication. It causes
your attention to become arrested and preoccupied with the body.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego, however, establishes it AS an end because, as such, it will
lose its TRUE function.
</div>

And if it loses its True Function, you lose your Real or True Conscious
Awareness of Who And What You Are. And so it&rsquo;s very important to
this little impostor, this state of self-defense, defending the
existence of something which doesn&rsquo;t exist.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is the purpose of everything the ego does. Its sole aim is to lose
sight of the function of EVERYTHING. A sick body does not make any
SENSE. It COULD not make sense because sickness is not what the body is
FOR. Sickness is meaningful only if the two basic premises on which the
ego&rsquo;s interpretation of the body rests are true. Specifically,
these are that the body is for attack, and &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; two &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; that you ARE a body. Without these premises, sickness is
completely inconceivable.
</div>

And if it&rsquo;s inconceivable, it&rsquo;s impossible to experience. If
you are going to continue to try to maintain this divorce from your
Source, you are going to be faced with these two premises and these two
premises only. That the body is for attack. And that you are a body.

So as you proceed in this coming week, once again, have some fun
exploring the experience of identifying yourself as Mind, the Conscious
Awareness in which every single experience you will have this week will
be going on. Which means that every single experience you have this week
will be a mental experience, not an independently existing experience of
a physical world.

You see, considering the body as an end rather than a means, means
you&rsquo;re arrested at the Movement of the Acknowledgement of God, the
Acknowledgement of What Is Real in everything you&rsquo;re seeing. That
Movement has become arrested at the point of its expression because
you&rsquo;ve become preoccupied with yourself as a body.

So this week practice not letting your attention become arrested at the
body. But let your attention persist in fulfilling the intent to
recognize God in everything you see, to extend or give acknowledgement
to God in everything you see.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Sickness is a way of demonstrating that YOU CAN BE HURT. It is a witness
to your frailty, your vulnerability, and your extreme need to depend on
EXTERNAL guidance.
</div>

Well, external. External to what? External to the Holy Spirit, that
which is nothing more than your right Mind, which is, for the lack of
better words, right in the middle of you, the central core, actually the
center and circumference of your Being, which is not different from God
and is therefore Infinite.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego uses this &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the need to depend on external guidance &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; as its best argument for your need for ITS guidance. It
dictates endless prescriptions for AVOIDING catastrophic outcomes.
</div>

And &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit, perfectly aware of the same data, does not bother to
analyze them at all. If the data are meaningless, there is no point in
considering them.
</div>

How many of you fuss over the possibility, how many of you fuss over the
nature of the ego that means that you&rsquo;d better be alert,
constantly second-guessing what the ego might do next, taking in,
classifying, categorizing ego data, instead of saying, &ldquo;Father,
what&rsquo;s the Truth? What&rsquo;s really going on here? And I
don&rsquo;t mean what&rsquo;s really going on here with all of these ego
ploys that are going on all around me, but what is the Truth of Reality
right here? I&rsquo;m willing to consider the possibility that all of
these ego ploys and dynamics that are parading themselves in front of me
most vocally and forcefully, I&rsquo;m willing to consider the
possibility that they are not actual, that they are not real, and
therefore don&rsquo;t require my attention. And I want to know, Father,
what is really going on here? What is the Movement of Creation that is
going on here and being the nonexistence of this ego folderol?&rdquo;

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The function of truth is to collect data which are TRUE. There is no
point in trying to make sense out of meaningless data. ANY way you
handle them results in nothing. The more complicated the results become,
the harder it may be to recognize their nothingness, but it is not
necessary to examine ALL possible outcomes to which premises give rise
to judge them truly.
</div>

You can learn to recognize ego ploys. And knowing, as you do, that the
ego is a liar and the father of it, meaning the father of the lie, you
will realize that there truly is no useful reason to examine the lies,
to understand the lies, to find out the motivation for the lies, and so
on.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
A learning device is NOT a teacher. IT cannot tell you how YOU feel. YOU
do not know how you feel because you have ACCEPTED the ego&rsquo;s
confusion, and YOU think that a learning device CAN tell you how you
feel.
</div>

Well, what happened here? Where did this learning device come up? Well,
we&rsquo;re talking about the body, and as long as you think you are
body and that it is an end rather a means, What It Truly Is escapes your
notice. And therefore, because there is a call for correction so that
you might experience What It Truly Is and not lose out on the
fulfillment of it, it becomes a learning device for you. Whatever of
What Is Real you have obscured from your sight becomes a learning
device. It becomes the focal point for correction of perception.

The body is not a teacher. A learning device, meaning the body, is not a
teacher. No learning device is a teacher. But it is the means by which
the correction of misperception can occur. You know what? It
doesn&rsquo;t tell you What The Truth Is, but it makes you want to know
What The Truth Is, so that you will open up your mind to the Father, or
to the Holy Spirit, your right Mind, to reveal to you What The Truth Is.
And then What That Thing Truly Is no longer needs to be a learning
device for you because you&rsquo;ve come back into your right Mind.

Now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
A learning device is NOT a teacher.
</div>

And specifically we&rsquo;re here talking about the body.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
IT cannot tell you how YOU feel.
</div>

And yet you get up in the morning, don&rsquo;t you, and you check your
body to see how you feel. Sometimes you do that to see if maybe you have
a justifiable reason for not going into work.

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
A learning device is NOT a teacher. IT cannot tell you how YOU feel. YOU
do not know how you feel because you have ACCEPTED the ego&rsquo;s
confusion, and YOU think that a learning device CAN tell you how you
feel. Sickness is merely another example of your insistence on asking
the guidance of a teacher WHO DOES NOT KNOW THE ANSWER. The ego is
INCAPABLE of knowing how you feel. When we said that the ego does not
know ANYTHING, we said the one thing about the ego that IS wholly true.
</div>

The only thing about the ego that is wholly true is that it is incapable
&hellip; is that it does not know anything.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
But there IS a corollary; if knowledge is being and the ego has no
knowledge, then the ego has no BEING.
</div>

It&rsquo;s an impostor. A figment of the imagination. But the problem is
that that figment of the imagination you believe is real. And so,
everyday you identify yourself as a body. And everyday you live in a
state of defense. That&rsquo;s your habit.

It&rsquo;s a long standing habit which we are in the process of
breaking. And we&rsquo;re in the process of breaking it by means of your
being confronted over and over again with the Truth that you are
Conscious Awareness, not the body. That the only thing confronting you
is the Kingdom of Heaven, not a physical universe that came from a big
bang. That you are the Christ right now, not the mortal sinner you think
you are. That you are in a forever State of Invincibility, and not
vulnerable. That the Substance of everything you see is Spirit, not
matter. And that every thing you see is an Idea, not a physical form,
experienced by Mind. And you are that Mind. That Mind is you. That
everything going on is purely mental.

And this keeps being presented to you as a means of arousing your
curiosity beyond the definitions you have accepted, so that you might
dare to let yourself be beyond the definitions of everything that you
have accepted, beyond the capacities that you somewhere along the line
decided have boundaries. You are being invited to let yourself into the
fuller Conscious Experience of Being that is not only your Birthright to
be experiencing, it&rsquo;s your capacity at the present moment to be
experiencing. It&rsquo;s just that you&rsquo;re not pushing the
envelope.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You might well ask how the voice of something which does not exist can
be so insistent. Have you ever seriously considered the distorting power
of something you WANT even if it is NOT true? You have had many
instances of how what you want can distort what you see and hear.
</div>

If you want to see an acquaintance or a friend as mean-spirited, as
selfish, or as overgenerous, or unreasonably kind, you will miss what
that one is actually being, because you will interpret everything that
one does according to the definition you hold. And if you are holding
the definition, you want the definition.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
No-one can doubt the ego&rsquo;s skill in building up false cases. Nor
can anyone doubt your willingness to listen until YOU will not to
tolerate anything EXCEPT truth. When YOU lay the ego aside, it will be
gone. The Holy Spirit&rsquo;s Voice is as loud as your willingness to
listen.
</div>

And I promise you that as long as you are insisting upon harboring in
your mind a definition of your Brother or Sister that is not true, your
willingness to listen for What Is True is absent. And the Holy
Spirit&rsquo;s Voice will not be loud at all to you.

Listen to this:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It cannot be louder without violating your will&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; such respect. It&rsquo;s a little bit more than respect.
It&rsquo;s the fact that you walked away from the Father, you divorced
your Source on purpose, and the only way you can return to your Sanity
is for your own reasons and because you have your own commitment and you
are willing to take responsibility for every step you take on the way
Home, so that there will be no confusion in your Mind. Your arrival at
Home will be, and can only be, the result of your own Singularity of
Purpose.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Joy &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; we started out today.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is unified purpose, and unified purpose is ONLY God&rsquo;s.
When yours is unified, it IS His.

The Holy Spirit&rsquo;s Voice is as loud as your willingness to listen.
It cannot be louder without violating your will, which the Holy Spirit
seeks to free, but NEVER to command.

The Holy Spirit &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that which is nothing more than your right Mind &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; teaches you to use your body ONLY to reach your
brothers&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; to reach your Brothers, not attack your Brothers.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit teaches you to use your body ONLY to reach your
brothers, so He can teach His message &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s message &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; THROUGH you. This will heal them and THEREFORE heal YOU.
</div>

Because you get to keep what you give.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Everything used in accordance with its function as the Holy Spirit sees
it &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and this includes the body &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; CANNOT be sick.
</div>

You hear that?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Everything used in accordance with its function as the Holy Spirit sees
it CANNOT be sick. Everything used otherwise IS.
</div>

If you identify with the body, you will see the body as an end, instead
of a means to an end, and sickness, sin and death will be your
experience. If you see it as a means to an end, your body will be
incapable, and you therefore will not have the experience, of sickness,
sin and death.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Do not allow the body to be a mirror of a split mind. Do not let it be
an image of your own perception of littleness.
</div>

Why? Because it&rsquo;s not real? No. Because it is Real as a Means of
Communication. What? To glorify God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Do not let it &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the body &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; reflect your will to attack. Health is the natural state of
anything whose interpretation is left to the Holy Spirit&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; our right Mind &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; Who perceives no attack on anything. Health is the result of
relinquishing ALL attempts to use the body lovelessly.
</div>

And let me be very clear about something. When the word
&ldquo;health&rdquo; is used here, it means identifiable health. It
means the disappearance of sickness. It means the disappearance of
blemish, the disappearance of damage, the obvious, I&rsquo;m going to
say, recordable evidence of regeneration.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Health is the beginning of the proper perspective on life under the
guidance of the one Teacher Who knows what life IS, being the Voice for
Life Itself.
</div>

That Voice is the Voice for Truth, the Holy Spirit, that which is
nothing more than your right Mind, and that which is What You
Are&mdash;Mind, not body&mdash;Mind in which the Experience of Creation
is going on, in which everything that is experienced is recognized as an
Idea set in place by the Will of the Father which is the Infinitude of
your Being.

So remember again this week, the simple concept is you want to make a
shift from body-identification to Mind-identification. Not a tiny
pea-brained mind. Even that is a concept. &ldquo;Oh, your mind is in
your brain, and your brain is in the skull, and it only weighs a certain
number of pounds which isn&rsquo;t very significant, and therefore
it&rsquo;s a small mind.&rdquo; No. That&rsquo;s an interesting idea,
isn&rsquo;t it? But not one of you has found the edge of your Mind. Pay
attention to the obvious. I will say not all of it is fully illuminated
to you at the moment. But when you have explored the extremities of your
Mind, you have found you can keep going and going and going, like the
energizer bunny. Pay attention to the obvious, and then take hold of the
obvious and begin to live your life consciously according to the
obvious.

Let that Mind be in you which was also in me. Why? Why let it? Because
it already is. And you might as well stop objecting to it. Let it be in
you. Agree with what the Father already set in place. You see?
Don&rsquo;t let that Mind be in you which was also in me because I did
it, or because it&rsquo;s a good idea, or it&rsquo;s better than
anything else. Do it because it&rsquo;s the Truth About You. It&rsquo;s
already been done. It already is you. Do it so that you will be in total
internal consistency with yourself, instead of at odds with yourself. Do
it because it embodies the Integrity, the already existing Divine
Integrity of You. Do it because it means coming back Home into your
right Mind so that you might enjoy the fullness of your Sanity.

I love you, Who You Really Are already. And I look forward to being with
you next week.

[^1]: T8.6 Communication and the Ego-Body Equation

