---
title: Nov 28, 2004
ref: "T8.8 Healing as Corrected Perception"
alink: "/acim/text/08/chap0808/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

We&rsquo;ll go right into the book.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have surely begun to realize that this is a very practical course,
which means EXACTLY what it says.[^1]
</div>

Indeed, most of the problems you have when reading the Course is that
you try to interpret what it is meaning&mdash;&ldquo;What? What is it
saying?&rdquo;&mdash;when it&rsquo;s saying very specifically What It
Means.

You all have the tendency to approach everything in your day on the
basis of your past experience. You explore new territory within the
context of your past experience. You listen for the Truth in the context
of your problem, when what&rsquo;s needed is, in the latter case, to be
more interested in What The Truth Is that you need to know than you are
in getting the answer to the problem which is fixed in your mind.

You have a problem. You&rsquo;re suffering, and you want not to suffer.
And so you must turn within and you must ask, &ldquo;What is the Truth
that I need to know? To heck with my problem at the moment. What&rsquo;s
the Truth? What&rsquo;s the Truth about me? What&rsquo;s the Truth about
What God Is Being Right Here, Right Now, that I need to be aware
of?&rdquo; You see? You want to have the Vision, the Experience of What
God Is Being Right Here, Right Now, in place of, not in the context of,
but in place of the distress you&rsquo;re experiencing, the problem
you&rsquo;re having. You need to untie yourself from the misperception
that you&rsquo;re suffering from. You&rsquo;re not here to get a better
understanding of the misperception you&rsquo;re having.

Many people say, &ldquo;Wow! Raj doesn&rsquo;t say what I&rsquo;ve read
in the Course,&rdquo; and therefore discount what I&rsquo;m saying,
instead of saying, &ldquo;Why might he be saying this? What might he be
saying that is consistent with the Course that I don&rsquo;t see as
being consistent with the Course because I&rsquo;ve been reading the
Course on the basis of my prior experience, my prior frame of reference,
my expectations?&rdquo; You need to disentangle yourselves from your old
mindsets, which at the bottom line are responsible for your distresses.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have surely begun to realize that this is a very practical course,
which means EXACTLY what it says.
</div>

Now, a very practical course. The tendency is to read it as though
it&rsquo;s otherworldly; as though it&rsquo;s talking about things
unrelated to your present experience. But I promise you everything in
here is relevant. Why is it relevant? Because your present experience is
a limited experience of the Kingdom of Heaven. And so, if the Course is
addressing the Kingdom of Heaven, it&rsquo;s addressing the Kingdom of
Heaven right here, right now, that you&rsquo;re right in the middle of.
It&rsquo;s not necessarily relevant to the way you&rsquo;re looking at
the Kingdom of Heaven right now. But right here and right now is what
the Course is about. And you are what the Course is about. And you are
the Christ that the Course talks about; the Christ entertaining a far
more limited belief about what you are than What You Are in your
Fullness at this very instant.

So, again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have surely begun to realize that this is a very practical course,
which means EXACTLY what it says. So does the Bible, if it is properly
understood. There has been a marked tendency on the part of many of the
Bible&rsquo;s followers, and also its translators, to be entirely
literal about fear and ITS effects, but NOT about love and ITS results.
Thus, &ldquo;hell-fire&rdquo; means &ldquo;burning,&rdquo; but raising
the dead becomes allegorical. Actually, it is PARTICULARLY the
references to the outcomes of love which SHOULD be taken literally
because the Bible is ABOUT love, being about God.  The Bible enjoins you
to be perfect&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and what does it actually say? &ldquo;Be ye, therefore,
perfect, even as your Father in Heaven is perfect.&rdquo; Be ye What You
Already Are because God already is the Author of you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Bible enjoins you to be perfect, to heal ALL errors, to take no
thought of the body AS SEPARATE, and to accomplish all things in my
name. This is not my name alone, for ours &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; yours and mine &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is a shared identification.
</div>

Why is it a shared identification? Because we all have the same Father.
Our Being is derived from the Father.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The name of God&rsquo;s Son is one, and you are enjoined to do the works
of love because we SHARE this oneness. Our minds are whole BECAUSE they
are one.
</div>

In other words, not fragmented into many little parts.

Now, listen:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you are sick, you are withdrawing from me.
</div>

Then, I would likewise say, &ldquo;If you are sick, you are withdrawing
from your Brothers and Sisters.&rdquo;

There&rsquo;s an excellent book entitled, Illness Or Allness. They are
the two ends of the spectrum of one thing. Even the sound
&ldquo;ill&rdquo; is a tightened form of the openness of
&ldquo;all.&rdquo; Illness or Allness. Illness is a tightening up, a
making smaller, a withdrawing, a making of oneself isolated from
everything else. And when one does this, one is inevitably
uncomfortable, because it is as though you are trying to constrict
something that is Infinite&mdash;Yourself.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you are sick, you are withdrawing from me. Yet you cannot withdraw
from me alone. You can only withdraw from yourself AND me.
</div>

When you say, &ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;d rather see it my way,&rdquo; and
you&rsquo;re withdrawing from the Father, and you lose the experience of
your True Identity, you have withdrawn from Who You Truly Are. If you
withdraw from me, you are withdrawing from What You Truly Are because we
are the same&mdash;the Sons and Daughters of the Father that we all have
in common, Who is the very Presence of each one of us always. And there
is no other Presence where we are than the Presence of the Father
embodied, expressed, experienceable.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I would not ask you to do things you cannot do, and it is impossible
that I could do things you cannot do.
</div>

So, you know what? Instead of looking at me as though I am something
grand and far beyond you, instead of seeing me that way, and making
yourself feel small, you should look at me and see in me the potential
in you; not just the potential, but the Actuality of You at this moment.
You should see in me how much more you are than you&rsquo;ve been
allowing yourself to believe that you are. It should be an inspiration,
rather than something that demeans you. It should cause you to let
yourself be like me, because we are the same, rather than letting it
make you feel small, inconsequential, and worthless, and eventually
hopeless.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I would not ask you to do things you cannot do, and it is impossible
that I could do things you cannot do. Given this, and given this QUITE
LITERALLY&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you hear that? Quite literally &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; there can be nothing which prevents you from doing EXACTLY what
I ask, and everything which argues FOR your doing it. I give you no
limits because God lays none upon you.
</div>

But what has God laid upon you? Infinite capacity. Undisturbable
Singularity of Mind that It cannot be fragmented. That&rsquo;s what God
has laid upon you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you limit YOURSELF we are NOT of one mind, and that IS sickness.
Yet sickness is not of the body, but of the MIND.
</div>

It&rsquo;s all in the way you&rsquo;re looking at things. It&rsquo;s all
in what you are choosing to believe.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
ALL forms of dysfunction are merely signs that the mind has split, and
does not accept a unified purpose.
</div>

If you realized that when you become defensive, you are completely
blocking your avenue of escape from the need for defense, you would
abandon defense, no matter what was confronting you. The act of defense
isolates you more than you were before you brought it actively into
play. It reinforces the sense of a split mind. It reinforces the
experience of vulnerability that comes from fragmentation. It does
exactly the opposite of what you want and need, which is coherence,
Singularity, undisturbable Oneness that constitutes Peace. What you want
is the Singularity that demonstrates to you where in your Mind that you
are invincible, because it is impossible for there to be anything
separate or different from you against which you need to be prepared to
defend yourself.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The unification of PURPOSE, then, is the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s ONLY way of
healing. This is because it is the only level at which healing means
anything. The re-establishing of meaning in a chaotic thought system IS
the only way to heal it.
</div>

And that&rsquo;s what I meant in my first remarks. If you&rsquo;re
having a problem and you ask God to give you an understanding of the
problem so you can understand how to control yourself and your
circumstances better to make the problem go away, you&rsquo;re not
asking for the Truth. You&rsquo;re asking for better control.
You&rsquo;re not asking for the answer which would render the problem,
I&rsquo;m going to say, unintelligible, meaningless to you, leaving
nothing there to deal with or handle.

You cannot bring order to chaos by bringing God into the chaos in a form
that would allow you to organize the fragmented pieces of chaos into a
better format. You&rsquo;ve got to arrive at a point where you are not
valuing the problem more than you are valuing the Experience of Truth in
which you will inevitably find the problem dissolving because it
wasn&rsquo;t real. It was nothing more than a series of fragmented
thoughts jumbled together, and then an attempt has been made to make
sense of it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The re-establishing of meaning in a chaotic thought system IS the only
way to heal it.
</div>

The re-establishing of Meaning. Meaning is always Singular. The
re-establishing of What Is True in a chaotic thought system is the only
way to heal it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
We have said that your task is only to meet the conditions FOR meaning,
since meaning itself is of God.
</div>

Meaning itself is not of the problem. Meaning exists entirely separate
and apart from the problem, entirely separate and apart from confusion
in your mind, entirely separate and apart from the appearance of chaos
itself. Meaning is found always in Peace, the Experience of Peace, which
is the Experience of Singularity, and is available to you constantly, if
you will choose for It, rather than the rehearsal of the problem in your
mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
We have said that your task is only to meet the conditions FOR meaning,
since meaning itself is of God. Yet your RETURN to meaning is essential
to HIS because your meaning is PART of His. Your healing, then, is part
of HIS health since it is part of His Wholeness.
</div>

We&rsquo;re speaking of God here.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your healing, then, is part of HIS health since it is part of His
Wholeness. He cannot LOSE this, but YOU can not KNOW it. Yet it is still
His Will for you, and His Will MUST stand forever and in all things.
</div>

You can not know it, meaning you cannot know it alone. You cannot know
it standing all by yourself. You cannot know it when you don&rsquo;t
know Who You Are Truly.

Your Function, your Function, your Function is to embody Love. Embody
Love&mdash;the Acknowledgement of What Is Real in each and every thing.
A capacity you have because you are able to abandon the definitions
you&rsquo;ve given everything and ask of God what the Meaning of
everything is so that the influx of inspiration and True Vision about a
thing is there for you to give to that thing by means of your body. And
your engaging in this activity which is your Function will constitute
healing, not just of perception, but of what you would call your body.

Again I reassure you that there is no such thing as healing that
isn&rsquo;t evidenced. If you do not have the Manifestation of
Perfection, correction is called for, and healing is called for. And
that healing will be recognizable, experienceable, recordable by a
camera, able to be seen by everyone. It won&rsquo;t be bliss in the
midst of disease, or a body that isn&rsquo;t perfect.

The next section is entitled:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*The Acceptance of Reality*
</div>

Well, by now hasn&rsquo;t it become clear that if you are suffering,
you&rsquo;re in a state of non-acceptance of Reality. If you&rsquo;re
looking around and saying, &ldquo;It&rsquo;s nothing but a material
world,&rdquo; it&rsquo;s like saying, &ldquo;There&rsquo;s no Santa
Claus,&rdquo; at Christmas time and the Spirit of the event is lost.
When you&rsquo;re looking around and saying, &ldquo;It&rsquo;s just a
material world,&rdquo; you are standing in the non-acceptance of the
Kingdom of Heaven, which is What&rsquo;s Really There, and which
you&rsquo;re having a false interpretation of, and which interpretation
you are choosing to believe is valid. So, if right here and right now
you are not seeing God in everything, and you are not recognizing the
Kingdom of Heaven, then you are not in a place where you are in
acceptance of Reality yet.

Please remember the obvious. The only thing there is to confront you is
Reality. There is nothing else going on. And you&rsquo;re seeing it
either clearly, or unclearly.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Fear of the Will of God is one of the strangest beliefs that the human
mind has ever made. This could not possibly have occurred unless the
mind were ALREADY profoundly split, making it possible for the mind to
be AFRAID of what it really is.
</div>

Every single one of you truly does believe that if you yielded
completely to God, you would lose valuable things. Maybe never to sew
again. Maybe never to cuddle with your cat. Maybe never to be able to
touch and smell and be fully aware of your partner. All because all of a
sudden you&rsquo;re going to turn into something utterly spiritual, and
intangible, and incapable of having a tactile experience, or a Conscious
Experience of Substance. So, you&rsquo;ll hold off a little while.
You&rsquo;ll justify pushing the snooze button on the alarm, because
these things are too valuable to you.

You are afraid to let your good in. You simply are. What is it? Nobody
likes a good guy. You have all kinds of thoughts and sayings that keep
you in your place, that keep you ignorant.

If you were going to let Truth in, Truth with a capital &ldquo;T&rdquo;,
you&rsquo;d have to, you think, recognize &hellip; you would have to
recognize all your flaws, wouldn&rsquo;t you? The Truth would uncover
all of the error in you. What a bummer. Why would you want to wake up?
Why would you want to know the Truth? You see how the ego perspective
works.

You know what the Light of Truth does? It illuminates the Truth in You,
and leaves you filled with the Conscious Experience of everything that
is valuable in you, which God laid upon you by virtue of extending
Himself right where you are. And so you need to find ways to abandon
your fear of good occurring, to abandon your fear of God appearing in
you and in your experience.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is apparent &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; it really is apparent &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; that reality cannot &ldquo;threaten&rdquo; anything EXCEPT
illusions, since reality can only uphold truth.
</div>

Now that&rsquo;s obvious. But you&rsquo;ll scuttle this little bit of
information back under the carpet, because it&rsquo;s much easier to
believe that Truth will uncover the awfulness in you, or that the
Experience of Truth, as I said before, will require of you that you be
too conscious. And it will be too much work. When the fact is that you
will rest in the Infinite Conscious Experience Of Being. It will not be
work.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The very fact that the Will of God, which is what you ARE, is perceived
as fearful to you demonstrates that you ARE afraid of what you are. It
is not, then, the Will of God of which you are afraid, but YOURS. Your
will is NOT the ego&rsquo;s, and that is WHY the ego is against you.
</div>

You know, you go &lsquo;round exercising your will, and you think your
will is your private capacity to exert force and make things happen. And
that is what you think gives you your individuality and creates a place
of realness in the world of you. And so it seems like a great sacrifice
to have to let go of that. But that is not your will.

Your will is the Will of God that God embodied right where you are. And
that Will is a Singular Will. It&rsquo;s undivided. It isn&rsquo;t Him
and me; God and me. It&rsquo;s Us. And it&rsquo;s so Us that it&rsquo;s
indivisible, and it doesn&rsquo;t constitute a conscious experience
separate from the Father&rsquo;s.

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What seems to be the fear of God is really only the fear OF YOUR OWN
REALITY.
</div>

Now it doesn&rsquo;t make sense, does it, to fear your own Reality? You
didn&rsquo;t set out to fear your own Reality, but as I said, the moment
you said, &ldquo;I want a divorce. I want to look at things my way for a
while,&rdquo; you imagined a new reality. And in abandoning the old one
which was Real and which couldn&rsquo;t be altered by your abandoning
it, you nevertheless created for yourself a so-called independent
experience. And you grew to love it. You grew to love the thrill, the
excitement of overcoming everything you found yourself afraid of, which
was All The Rest of the Kingdom of Heaven.

And so, because you began to take so much value from the experience of
independence, you saw anything else which would have to be All The Rest
Of What You Divinely Are, you began to see everything else as that which
would undermine and deprive you of that which was of ultimate value to
you&mdash;your assertion of your independent self.

So you didn&rsquo;t do it on purpose. You did it because in the act, the
imagined act of independence, you forgot Who You Were. And in forgetting
Who You Were, all that you &hellip; all of your Self that you
weren&rsquo;t embracing became that which was your enemy. Why? Because
the Rest of You is always insisting on reincorporating the little
independent sense of yourself that you&rsquo;re holding apart from the
Rest back into the Rest.

So, the Holy Spirit, that which is nothing more than your right Mind,
That Which Is The Rest of You, because It cannot help but engage in
reintegration of Its Wholeness, is experienced by you as a threat, as a
danger, as that which is intent upon upsetting the status quo, and
disturbing whatever sense of peace you&rsquo;ve managed to achieve in
the middle of a conflicted world, a polarized world, which you believe
you have the capacity to whip into shape; to temper, to train into
better forms of obedience.

Something else obvious here.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is impossible to learn anything consistently in a state of panic. If
the purpose of this course is to help you learn what you are, and if you
have already DECIDED that what you are &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; truly &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is fearful, then it MUST follow that you will NOT learn this
course.
</div>

This is so obvious.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet you might remember that the reason FOR the course is that you do NOT
know who you are.
</div>

You do not know Who You Are. That&rsquo;s the reason for the Course to
remind you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you do not know your reality, how would you know whether it is
fearful or not?

The association of truth and fear, which would be highly artificial at
most, is particularly inappropriate in the minds of those who do not
know what truth IS.
</div>

[laughing] If you don&rsquo;t know what the Truth is, on what basis
would you justify being afraid?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
All that this kind of association means is that you are arbitrarily
endowing something quite beyond your awareness with something you DO NOT
WANT. It is evident, then, that you are judging something of which you
are totally UNAWARE.
</div>

You see, when you become so preoccupied with what you think you are, and
when you are so certain about what you believe you are, and when you
have such confidence, it doesn&rsquo;t matter what else might enter the
picture; you cannot allow it. And even though you don&rsquo;t know what
it might be, you still can&rsquo;t allow it.

But something&mdash;the Course, someone, me, and your Guides, and the
Holy Spirit in each one of you&mdash;has come and is telling you what is
beyond what you&rsquo;re conscious of, so that you&rsquo;re not ignorant
and you&rsquo;re not making a decision against it ignorantly any longer.
You may still choose to ignore it, to distance yourself from it, but you
won&rsquo;t be doing it in total ignorance.

On the other hand, because you are not totally ignorant that the Truth
about you, the Conscious Experience of Who and What You Really Are, is
available to you, and because it is Truth, all that it will illuminate
in you is the Truth of What You Are, [which] can give you the courage to
explore, to allow for that which you had steadfastly disallowed for,
because it wouldn&rsquo;t have mattered what it was to you that was
outside of your experience, you couldn&rsquo;t let it in.

Now that I&rsquo;m telling you the Truth will illuminate the Truth about
you and free you from the illusions about you that you&rsquo;ve been
bound by, you do have a justification for letting in a fuller
experience, for saying to the Father, &ldquo;Father, Thy Will be done.
Share with me what it is.&rdquo; Or to say to the Holy Spirit,
&ldquo;Help. I invite You in. I make room for You. And I make room for
You by giving my attention to You, instead of my best interpretations,
my best definitions, and the strange love I have for ruminating about
nonsensical, fragmented arrangements of things at the expense of gaining
my access to the Truth that it&rsquo;s my Birthright to be
experiencing.&rdquo;

So, again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is evident, then, that you are judging something of which you are
totally UNAWARE. You have set this strange situation up so that it is
completely impossible to escape from it WITHOUT a Guide Who DOES know
what your reality is. The purpose of this Guide is merely to remind you
of what you WANT. He is not attempting to force an alien will UPON you.
</div>

Now this is very important. Your fundamental Guide is the Holy Spirit.
The Holy Spirit is not attempting to force an alien will upon you, but
to uncover that it already is, and always has been, your will, which you
have been denying and blinding yourself to the experience of by choosing
to attempt to be a private, autonomous presence with an ability to have
force in your world all by yourself. It&rsquo;s your right Mind that is
insisting on rejoining with you; not an alien will. It&rsquo;s You!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your Guide &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is merely making every possible effort, within the limits you
impose on Him, to RE-ESTABLISH your own will &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your Real Will &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; in your consciousness.
</div>

And yet [laughing], it cannot be forced upon you, not even by that which
is nothing more than your right Mind. This little rebellious speck of
the Infinitude of What You Are must rejoin the Whole voluntarily by
abandoning whatever means it is using to convince itself that it
actually can be separate.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have IMPRISONED your will in your UNCONSCIOUS, where it remains
available but cannot help you. When we said that the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s
function is to sort out the true from the false in your unconscious, we
meant that He has the power to look into what YOU have hidden, and
perceive the Will of God there. HIS perception of this Will can make it
real to YOU because He is in your mind, and therefore He IS &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; your reality.
</div>

He is nothing more than your right Mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If, then, His perception of your mind brings its reality to YOU, He IS
teaching you what you are.
</div>

That Which Is Whole has no choice but to be Whole, because its Wholeness
was set in place by the Father, by the Father&rsquo;s Will. Therefore,
that of you which has been held in trust while you dally with an ego
sense of yourself, which is nothing more than your right Mind, is
constantly insisting on being Whole because it is Singular. And so
it&rsquo;s constantly inviting you, not coercing you, not forcing you,
but inviting you to let it back in. Constantly inviting you to abandon
your insistence upon being tiny.

That means that you&rsquo;re already surrounded by help. You already
stand supported on behalf of your Wholeness, on behalf of your Conscious
Experience of your Perfection. Everything that is going on is geared
toward the miracle, the sudden shift of perception. You are not alone.
You have never been abandoned. You are never out of reach because
[laughing] you carry with you at all times that which is nothing more
than your right Mind. The Whole of You accompanies you everywhere you
go.

But you must arrive at a point where the Truth is more important to you
than your problem, or the Truth is more important to you than your
current belief system; where the Truth is more important to you because
you&rsquo;ve heard that it will, if you let it in, illuminate the Truth
about you, and relieve you, release you, from the ignorances that you
have been bound by inappropriately and unnecessarily. You are all so
constantly accompanied by that which will make you Whole and that which
is intent upon uncovering your Wholeness to you. And you know what? This
stranger that is accompanying you is nothing more, no one more than your
Self in your Totality.

As I was saying earlier &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The only source of fear in this whole process can ONLY be what you think
you LOSE.
</div>

&ldquo;Yeah. Pretty [clicking sound], pretty awful to have to lose sin,
sickness, and death. I agree. That&rsquo;s quite a cost. And misery and
confusion that accompanies it. Oh, my.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The only source of fear in this whole process can ONLY be what you think
you LOSE. Yet it is only what the Holy Spirit sees that you can possibly
HAVE. We have emphasized many times that the Holy Spirit will never call
upon you to sacrifice ANYTHING.
</div>

You see, isn&rsquo;t it wonderful here in this marvelous experience of
independence, and the thrill and the excitement of overcoming the odds?
You don&rsquo;t realize that you have already sacrificed your peace and
the Conscious Experience of your Wholeness; your capacity to be anywhere
in Infinity in an instant, which you call teleportation; your capacity
to experience the Whole of Infinity in the Singularity of one Conscious
Experience  and yet, at the same time, to experience the Infinite
Specificity, the infinite minutiae of details of Creation; to have
simultaneously the experience, the Conscious Experience of being
Universal, as well as Specific.

You sacrificed a lot, but since no one has come along and said to you
that the Rest of What You Are, the Rest of Infinity, is present and
available to you right now because right now you&rsquo;re more than you
thought you were, you just plodded along, plodded along in your
ignorance.

But now someone is telling you that you already are the Ultimate, that
you don&rsquo;t have to plod ahead any further. You simply have to,
let&rsquo;s say, abandon the trek. Pause a moment. Choose for your
Peace, and desire to know the Truth irrespective of the problems that
are going on, which your ego would just love to get a better
understanding of so that it could manipulate everything into better
order without ever allowing you to remember Who You Are. And no longer
experience the sacrifice of the Truth About You together with the bliss
and the Peace and the Joy and the Love, together with your capacity to
look at each other and recognize Ultimate Value there, so that in the
recognition of it, the making of the Gift of the recognition of it, you
make it your own.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
We have emphasized many times that the Holy Spirit will never call upon
you to sacrifice ANYTHING. But if you ask the sacrifice of reality OF
YOURSELF, the Holy Spirit MUST remind you that this is not God&rsquo;s
Will BECAUSE it is not yours.
</div>

Wow! The Holy Spirit confronts you, not with the fact that you&rsquo;re
trying to be a bad boy, or a bad girl, but confronts you with the fact
that, because it&rsquo;s not God&rsquo;s Will, it&rsquo;s not yours
either, leaving you in your Integrity, inspiring your Integrity to come
forth, rather than become buried further.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is NO DIFFERENCE between your will and God&rsquo;s.
</div>

Now I am not talking about what you would call your human will. I am not
talking about any capacity you think you privately, personally have to
be forceful, manipulative, and successfully controlling of circumstances
and people.

There is no difference between What Your Will Truly Is and God&rsquo;s.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you did not have split minds, you would recognize that willing is
salvation BECAUSE it is communication.
</div>

What is it your will to do or be? Well, don&rsquo;t try to figure out
the answer to that question, &lsquo;cause any answer you figure out will
be wrong. Your will is to fulfill your Function. That&rsquo;s the only
thing your will can be.

&ldquo;Oh, I know. Well, that doesn&rsquo;t tell me a hell of a lot,
does it? The expression of my true will is to embody my function. Thanks
a lot! Anybody mind telling me what my function is?&rdquo;&mdash;with a
little bit of sarcasm and righteous indignation.

I&rsquo;ll be happy to tell you what your will is. Your will is to
recognize God in each and every thing. Your Function is, I&rsquo;m going
to put it to you gently, is to be like God. And God saw everything that
He had made, and behold it was verily God Himself. God does nothing less
than recognize Himself in the Movement of Being. Now what makes you
think you might have a function different from that? Your Function is to
see What&rsquo;s True. Your Function is to see What&rsquo;s Real. Your
Function is to extend it and make it your own, so that you feel the
Singularity of Being with no fragmentation associated with it, and
therefore no confusion associated with it, and therefore with utter
Peace. And a capacity to be Joyful; not just happy, happy, happy. The
capacity to be Joyful, which is no small thing, because that which is
Singular, when it is Joyful, is, for lack of better words, a Joy which
resounds through Infinity without ever losing any aspect of the
substantiality of Itself.

Talk about a hit the ego would get if it could have that experience. It
shouts, but what it shouts fades out as it goes through space. But the
Joy of Being extends Infinitely, without ever fading out, without the
Full Substance of What It Is being fully experienceable. [Laughing] You
will never have the experience of wondering if you&rsquo;ve been heard.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you did not have split minds, you would recognize that willing is
salvation BECAUSE it is communication.
</div>

The extension of the acknowledgement of What Is Real in each and every
thing; which is another way of saying the recognition of God in each and
every thing; which is another way of saying that the Experience of Being
is the experience of glorifying God. That&rsquo;s what the words
&ldquo;glorifying God&rdquo; mean. A holy, religious experience? Yes,
but you know what? It&rsquo;s like looking at the poinsettias here and
experiencing them fully. And you never really think of any spiritual
words. It means being present with whatever is going on. The African
violets over there. Each of you sitting in your chairs and experiencing
the capital &ldquo;M&rdquo; Meaning, the significant Meaning, the Divine
Meaning of each of you, of each thing. That&rsquo;s what glorifying God
is. It&rsquo;s recognizing a thing for What It Really Is and enjoying it
to the max, experiencing it to the max. And, by virtue of having the
experience, broadcasting/communicating the experience to all the Rest of
Infinity.

Don&rsquo;t worry. You&rsquo;ll never lose the opportunity to smell the
roses. You just think you know what smelling the roses means. And
it&rsquo;s a hint. It&rsquo;s a hint of the Ultimate.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is impossible to communicate in alien tongues.
</div>

Weird thing to stick in there, isn&rsquo;t it? Hmm. Well, when any one
of you speaks from an ungrounded and unconnected place, you speak
&ldquo;in alien tongues.&rdquo; And you think in alien
ways&mdash;fragmented, distorted, unintelligent. But communication never
actually occurs. Whenever you are dealing with your neighbor, or your
family, or your friends, and it&rsquo;s not your intent to be glorifying
what is of value about them, you are not only speaking to them in alien
tongues, and they are not only speaking to you in alien tongues, but no
communication is actually occurring. Nothing of significance is
happening. So talking to each other from independent, autonomous stances
is not your function.

But here&rsquo;s your Function.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You and your Creator can communicate through creation because that, and
ONLY that, IS your joint Will.
</div>

There will never be joint creations (plural). There will only ever be
joint will where you and the Father constitute a Singularity&mdash;not a
duality; not a friendly, chummy duality&mdash;but a Singularity in which
neither one of you is claiming an independent vantage point. And you
become One in Intent, One in Will.

To not claim a presence different from the One Infinite Presence That
You Are, a Presence which is constantly Conscious, and therefore
constantly in the Movement of Consciousness, which is therefore
experienced as All That Is&mdash;the Kingdom of Heaven, the Universe,
Infinity. The acknowledgement of That. The recognition of your Self in
That. Where the full Meaning of the redness of the poinsettia is
communicated Infinitely, for lack of better words, through the Universe,
which is some Aspect of the Infinitude of You in your Singular,
Universal Oneness, as well.

Now, I&rsquo;m going to stop there.

You may think that I&rsquo;m getting way out there. But what I&rsquo;m
trying to convey to you is that what you call &ldquo;way out
there&rdquo; is the right here, right now. And right here, right now, is
where you&rsquo;ll experience it.

I love you.

Abide with what I&rsquo;ve said. If anything, wonder, &ldquo;Why did he
say that? What were his reasons? What were the Divine Reasons for this
being said, and not something else? And if it doesn&rsquo;t jive with
what I read in the Bible, or what I&rsquo;ve read in the Course, why did
he say it? Where might the compatibility of the two be found?&rdquo; It
will be found not in trying to magnify the difference, but in asking,
&ldquo;What might the Divine and Enlightening Reason have been for him
saying what he said?&rdquo;

And I look forward to being with you next week.

[^1]: T8.8 Healing as Corrected Perception

