---
title: Dec 5, 2004
ref: "T8.9 The Acceptance of Reality"
alink: "/acim/text/08/chap0809/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

We were last talking about the fact that your will and God&rsquo;s Will
are one; are the same; are identical; are the one and same Singularity,
if you will. But this is only true when you are &hellip; when
you&rsquo;re willing not to hold yourself separate from God, when
you&rsquo;re willing to yield to the Father&rsquo;s Perspective because
it&rsquo;s the only True Perspective about everything.

It does not mean that your practice of free will, or of a private will
of your own, is one with the Father&rsquo;s Will. In your independent
stance, separate from the Father, formulating what you want, what your
goals are, how you&rsquo;re going to accomplish them, and how
you&rsquo;re going to convince others of the reasonableness of what you
want so that they won&rsquo;t stand in the way of it, you are practicing
willfulness, which simply means the practice of force in the attempt to
sway other minds to be in agreement with you. Your will is always,
always, always a manipulation of events, circumstances, and people
through an expression of intense and unyielding energy, if I may put it
that way, through commitment that is unyielding to a single idea which
you have imagined, which you have made-up, and which does not coordinate
with, does not fit in with everyone else, which is, of course, why you
have to bring force to bear upon the situation to get everyone to agree
with you.

The Father&rsquo;s Will is a Movement of Mind. It is not the attempt to
accomplish anything. It&rsquo;s not a means of accomplishing a goal.
It&rsquo;s the Movement of Mind. It is a Movement of That Which Is
Perfect. It is the Movement of That Which Is Undivided, Unfragmented,
Singular. And that Movement is Creation. Creation that embodies and
reflects Perfection, Harmony, the Loveliness of Love called Beauty,
exquisiteness, perfect coordination of every Aspect of the Visibility
and Tangibility of the Movement of Mind that is called Creation. No
force is brought to bear. It is not an expression of strength.
Omnipotence is not infinite power. Omnipotence is simply Presence
unopposed. You got that? Omnipotence is simply Presence unopposed.
Singularity again.

It&rsquo;s your Function, as we&rsquo;ve said before, to be in such
harmony with God, to be in such a state of dependence, rather than
independence, a state in which you are present with God without any
other intent in place, so that you can experience, we&rsquo;ll say, God
in you, so that you might experience What God Is Being from His
Perspective. Because I&rsquo;ll tell you something. His Perspective is
His Gift to you. His Mind is His Gift to you.

You get fouled up by thinking you have a mind of your own that you must
use well. And you try to do that. And as long as you are doing that, you
are preoccupied with your concepts about yourself, about your duties,
about your responsibilities. And you&rsquo;re not available.
You&rsquo;re daydreaming, in effect, and not available to That Mind in
you which is God; which is your salvation, of course, because it&rsquo;s
you experiencing your right Mind.

The last sentence we read was:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You and your Creator can communicate through creation because that, and
ONLY that, IS your joint Will.[^1]
</div>

You communicate through creation through conscious participation in the
Movement of Mind that is Creation. It doesn&rsquo;t mean you can
communicate through creation by taking a creation, such as these
flowers, and making a gift of them to your girlfriend, or your
boyfriend, or your wife, or your lover, or your friend. It doesn&rsquo;t
mean using creation to communicate with. It means, as I said, your not
standing apart from the Mind of God that is your Mind, and participating
in the Conscious Movement of Mind that is Creation, so that you with God
might look at everything that has been made and recognize yourself in
it. That&rsquo;s the Singularity. And that&rsquo;s the creation that you
communicate through.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Divided wills do not communicate because they speak for different things
TO THE SAME MIND.
</div>

They &hellip; One says, &ldquo;Yes.&rdquo; One says, &ldquo;No.&rdquo;
One says, &ldquo;I agree.&rdquo; One says, &ldquo;I disagree.&rdquo; One
says, &ldquo;This is true.&rdquo; The other says, &ldquo;That is not
true.&rdquo;&mdash;constantly, simultaneously, in the same space, to the
same mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This loses the ability to communicate simply because confused
communication does not mean ANYTHING.
</div>

What would happen if you walked into a room and the person in the room
says, &ldquo;Quick! Help me! I&rsquo;ve lost my lap. I can&rsquo;t find
my lap. It was here just a moment [ago], and when I got up, it
disappeared. You&rsquo;ve got to help me find my lap.&rdquo; This person
is not speaking sense. But it sounds like sense. And if you think,
&ldquo;Oh, my God! I didn&rsquo;t even think about it, but I&rsquo;ve
lost my lap, too. Yeah. I&rsquo;ll help you find your lap. Sure.&rdquo;
And now you appear to be in agreement. And you&rsquo;re both apparently
engaged in a mutual task to find this other one&rsquo;s lap. And along
the way you say, &ldquo;As soon as we find yours, you&rsquo;ve got to
help me find mine, because, you know, tit for tat. I helped you.
You&rsquo;ll help me.&rdquo; &ldquo;Oh yeah, I&rsquo;d be glad to help
you.&rdquo; And my goodness, it sounds like communication is occurring,
doesn&rsquo;t it? It sounds like interaction is occurring. It sounds
like meaningful relationship is occurring. And yet, nothing is
happening. No lap has been lost. No lap can be found. And the search for
it is the accomplishment of nothing.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
A message cannot be said to be communicated UNLESS it makes sense. How
sensible can your messages be when you ask for what you do NOT want?
</div>

What would be an example of asking for what you do not want?

&ldquo;Father, help me to see how to close this multi-million dollar
deal quickly, easily, harmoniously.&rdquo;&mdash;And then the unsaid
part of it is, &ldquo;Even though I know it&rsquo;s taking advantage of
many organizations, many people.&rdquo;&mdash;&ldquo;Help me. Help me to
conduct my business deal here in a swift, succinct, business-like and
fair way.&rdquo; In other words, you&rsquo;re asking God to help you act
in an independent way, independent from God, in that you didn&rsquo;t
ask God whether the deal the way it was set up was really fair. And,
also, because you&rsquo;re holding yourself apart from your Brothers
with whom you&rsquo;re making the transaction, and seeing them as
different from you, and seeing them as someone whom this deal could cost
something, but for you, it would make you a great deal of money and cost
you nothing.

You&rsquo;re asking God to help you be successful at functioning
independent of Him and independent of your Brothers, which means alone.
You&rsquo;re asking for what you do not want. You&rsquo;re asking to
have your separateness confirmed to you, which is very lonely, and full
of fear and suffering when you get right down to it. You&rsquo;re asking
for what you do not want.

But you appear to be including God by praying to Him. You appear to be
joining with God, but you&rsquo;re joining with God to have Him confirm
your unjoined state. You see?

You&rsquo;re asking for what you do not want. You&rsquo;re asking for
what you want to get&mdash;the carrot out there. But you&rsquo;re asking
for what you do not want.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet as long as you are AFRAID of your will, &hellip;
</div>

And here we&rsquo;re talking about your Real will &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; this is precisely what you WILL ask for. You may insist that
the Holy Spirit does not answer you, but it might be wiser to consider
the kind of ASKER you are.
</div>

Are you really asking a sensible question, making a sensible request?
Are you expressing an intent that the Father placed in you that
therefore truly expresses your will?

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You do NOT ask only for what you want. This is SOLELY because you are
afraid you might RECEIVE it, AND YOU WOULD.
</div>

What do you really want?

You really want Peace. You really want the Experience of Wholeness. You
want the Experience of Perfection. You want the experience of
guiltlessness. You want the absence of suffering. That&rsquo;s what you
really want.

But in order to have what you want, you have to sacrifice being an
orphan. You have to sacrifice the independence that you so highly prize.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is really why you persist in asking the teacher who could not
possibly TEACH you your will.
</div>

You persist in inquiring of your best judgments. You insist upon
inquiring of your capacity to reason. You insist upon requesting of your
memory and your experience. You insist upon inquiring of the learning
about human nature and life as you have been defining it, that has
occurred in you by virtue of your putting bits and pieces of information
together in a manner that makes sense to you, and seems to hold water,
and helps you to feel secure.

You ask of the sense of self that you have created in an imagined state
of independence from your Source, which cannot solve your problems,
because independence from your Source is the only problem you have. And
this sense of self that has been developed on the basis of independence,
exclusivity from your Source, has not the capacity to reconnect you to
your Source, and so it will always confirm your independence, and
ultimately thereby, your suffering.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is really why you persist in asking the teacher who could not
possibly TEACH you your will. Of him you can NEVER learn it, and this
gives you the illusion of safety.
</div>

Why? Why safety? Because it&rsquo;s not going to upset the apple cart,
is it? It isn&rsquo;t going to &hellip; it isn&rsquo;t going to upset
the status quo. It isn&rsquo;t going to upset the developed sense of a
decent personality, or human being, that you have created. It
doesn&rsquo;t violate your very best sense of yourself that you have
worked so hard to create.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet you cannot be safe FROM truth, but only IN it.
</div>

Again, you&rsquo;re all afraid of Truth because you think it&rsquo;s
going to uncover all that&rsquo;s erroneous in you. And so Truth becomes
something you must be safe from. But Truth reveals what? All that is
True about you. It uncovers God right there where you are. You can only
be safe in Truth.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Reality is the ONLY safety. Your will &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; we&rsquo;re talking about your divine will &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is your salvation BECAUSE it is the same as God&rsquo;s.
</div>

You see, when you got your divorce from the Father, and you set up house
on your own recognizance, so to speak, on the basis of your own best
thinking, you moved into an unsafe realm&mdash;a place where you cannot
feel Peace because you have cut yourself off from the Source of your
Peace. And what is the Source of your Peace? Knowing What You Are.

Now you are devoted to this sense of self. And you believe that you can
somehow in this unsafe existence, this unsafe world you find yourself
in, that somehow you can through a sheer mental forcefulness,
determination, and commitment to consistency of your thoughts and ideas,
create safety for yourself. And you think that&rsquo;s your salvation,
and you struggle very hard to accomplish it.

Again, back tracking &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet you cannot be safe FROM truth, but only IN it. Reality is the ONLY
safety. Your will is your salvation BECAUSE it is the same as
God&rsquo;s.
</div>

And what you&rsquo;re calling your will, your right to free will, your
right to forcefully and determinedly accomplish things, is not your
salvation. It deprives you of your salvation. Why? Because it deprives
you of being united with your Whole Mind as Mind, instead of a mind with
beliefs that constitute its reality.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your will is your salvation BECAUSE it is the same as God&rsquo;s. The
separation is nothing more than the belief that it is DIFFERENT.
</div>

The belief that what is different? Your will. That you have a will
that&rsquo;s your own. And the excellent exercise of it is what gives
you respectability, and worth, and value, and meaning.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The separation is nothing more than the belief that it is DIFFERENT.
</div>

Now, continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
No mind can believe that its will is STRONGER than God&rsquo;s.
</div>

It&rsquo;s simply and impossibility.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
No mind can believe that its will is STRONGER than God&rsquo;s. If,
then, a mind believes that ITS will is different from His&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; not stronger, but different &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; it can only decide either that there IS no God, or that
GOD&rsquo;S WILL IS FEARFUL.
</div>

In other words, if a mind cannot believe that it&rsquo;s will is
stronger than God&rsquo;s, then it&rsquo;s a given the Omnipotence of
God&rsquo;s Will cannot be done away with. And so, if you say,
&ldquo;I&rsquo;m going to have a will different from the
Father&rsquo;s,&rdquo; you&rsquo;re going to have to do something with
this thing that won&rsquo;t go away&mdash;this undeniable Omnipotence of
God&rsquo;s Will. And so, in order to survive in some degree of
equilibrium, some sort of what the ego calls &ldquo;sanity,&rdquo;
we&rsquo;re going to call it &ldquo;stable insanity,&rdquo; something
has to be done with this thing that won&rsquo;t go away&mdash;the
Omnipotence of God&rsquo;s Will.

And one of the things that can be done is to wipe it out of mind
completely; to ignore it completely and say, &ldquo;There is no
God.&rdquo; You see? Either you wipe God out completely by totally
blocking it from your awareness, and disallowing it from occupying your
mindsets and your beliefs and your words that you use, et cetera, or,
you arrive at the determination that God&rsquo;s Will is fearful. Why
fearful? Because, if you accept the idea that there is a God, in other
words, if you don&rsquo;t block out the unavoidable Conscious Awareness
that God&rsquo;s Will is Omnipotent, then you&rsquo;re face-to-face with
the fact that your will is lesser; a lesser will than God&rsquo;s.
Right? That you stand in second place, so to speak. And because
God&rsquo;s Will is stronger, it is a constant threat to yours. And,
therefore, it is automatically fearful, because if it&rsquo;s stronger,
it will inevitably overpower you, inevitably overpower your will, your
decisions, your determination, and all of the mental constructs that you
have built to confirm your existence as an independent, worthwhile,
real, meaningful entity.

So, again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If, then, a mind believes that ITS will is different from His&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; God&rsquo;s &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; it can only decide either that there IS no God, or that
GOD&rsquo;S WILL IS FEARFUL. The former accounts for the atheist, and
the latter for the martyr.
</div>

So, [laughing] there ya are! None of you here are atheists, so that
means that you&rsquo;ve all adopted the role of martyrs. Meet
yourselves.

Why would you do that? Again, because it&rsquo;s your belief that when
Pure Love looks upon you, it won&rsquo;t find anything lovable in you.
It&rsquo;s because you think that when Truth illuminates you, it will
uncover everything that is awful. And you don&rsquo;t want that. And so
you hold yourself even more firmly separate from God, and that makes you
a martyr, because you have to find a way to exist, to survive, to have
continuance of conscious experience of life in the face of Something
that stands opposed to you, you think.

And it&rsquo;s only because you believe yourselves, it&rsquo;s only
because you believe the stories and the pictures you&rsquo;ve created
about yourselves&mdash;that you&rsquo;re unlovable; that you&rsquo;re
flawed; that there&rsquo;s very little Truth in you. Or even if there is
Truth in you, there&rsquo;s so much that&rsquo;s not lovely and not
truthful, that there will be great penalties to pay. And so you fight
for the right to struggle on your own. That&rsquo;s being called a
martyr.

Now, this is not a judgment on you, because it is perfectly
understandable. And you must be willing to accept the perfection of its
understandability. The understandability of it is that you have
practiced this independence for so long that you really have forgotten
Who You Are, and you really have forgotten the Way Things Work.
Otherwise, you wouldn&rsquo;t for a moment imagine that Truth shone on
you would do anything less than uncover everything that is perfect and
flawless about you, because you are at this moment The Christ. You are
at this moment the Expression of God&mdash;God presence-ing
Himself/Herself right where you are. You see? And it wouldn&rsquo;t
occur to you for a moment that when Perfect Love came your way, it
wouldn&rsquo;t find the Loveliness of God in you and embrace it. It
wouldn&rsquo;t occur to you that it would see you as unlovely, and
reject you, and thus convict you maximally. Because if Perfect Love
rejected you, how great a rejection would it be? An awful rejection.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Martyrdom takes many forms, the category &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning martyrdom &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; including ALL doctrines which hold that God demands sacrifices
of ANY kind. Either basic type of insane decision &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning atheism or martyrdom.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; will induce panic because the atheist believes he is alone, and
the martyr believes that God is crucifying him. Both really fear
abandonment and retaliation, but the atheist is more reactive against
abandonment, and the martyr against retaliation.
</div>

Now, are you going to get hooked in another side-track, [another]
distraction? Are you going to look at yourself and say, &ldquo;Well,
now, am I the atheist, or am I the martyr?&rdquo; And then, are you
going, like the person who&rsquo;s says, [laughing] &ldquo;Please help
me. I&rsquo;ve lost my lap,&rdquo; are you going to say, &ldquo;God,
please help me understand how to grow out of my martyrdom. God, please
help me not be an atheist.&rdquo; You see? That&rsquo;s like saying,
&ldquo;Help me find my lap. I lost my lap.&rdquo;

You see [laughing], you couldn&rsquo;t have this concept of being an
atheist, someone who doesn&rsquo;t believe in God at all, or a martyr,
if you didn&rsquo;t, if you weren&rsquo;t entertaining one single false
belief, and that being that you really are an independent entity
separate from God. You see, it isn&rsquo;t martyrdom that you need to be
healed of. And it isn&rsquo;t atheism that you need to be healed of.
What you need to be healed of is the idea that you really are something
different from What God Is Being of Himself, Right Here, Right Now,
right where you are. You see? You need to be healed of a false sense of
selfhood, which secondarily can be called &ldquo;atheistic&rdquo; or
&ldquo;martyr.&rdquo; You see what I&rsquo;m saying?

So don&rsquo;t get hung up, &ldquo;Oh, my God! How am I practicing being
a martyr?&rdquo; No. [laughing] Ask God, &ldquo;Help me abandon the idea
that I&rsquo;m separate from You, and could be either one of these two
things that I then would need to be healed of. Help me correct the
fundamental problem, which is that I think at the moment that I&rsquo;m
not joined with You. And I&rsquo;m looking at everything on the basis of
that idea.&rdquo; You see? &ldquo;God, I&rsquo;m willing to make a place
for You. I&rsquo;m not going to mess around with trying to improve my
atheistic behavior. I&rsquo;m not going to try to abandon my addiction
to being a martyr. I&rsquo;m not going to tackle the situation at that
level. God, I&rsquo;m going to make room for You in me so that What You
Are, the Love That You Are, and the Truth (with a capital
&ldquo;T&rdquo;) That You Are might illuminate in me to me the
Loveliness, the Innocence, the Perfection, the God-ness of me. I&rsquo;m
going to attend to that. I&rsquo;m going to stick with that. I&rsquo;m
going to be determined not to waver from that conscious intent.
I&rsquo;m going to attend to this rather than healing myself of
martyrdom, or atheism.&rdquo; You see? So don&rsquo;t get side-tracked.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The atheist maintains that God has left him, but he does not care. He
will, however, become very fearful, and hence very angry, if anyone
suggests that God has NOT left him.
</div>

Why? Well, because then [amused] he would have to acknowledge this thing
that won&rsquo;t go way, this Conscious Awareness of the Omnipotence of
God&rsquo;s Will, which would mean his sense of his own personal,
private will would be under siege; that it would be threatened by a Will
that is Omnipotent. And he or she would have to abandon the private,
autonomous claim to selfhood that has made existence reasonable to him,
or her.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The martyr, on the other hand, is more aware of guilt, and believing
that punishment is inevitable, attempts to teach himself to LIKE it.
</div>

&ldquo;Things are rugged, but I can take it. You know, I know I have a
rough life, but you know what? I have what it takes to cope with it. I
really do. And come hell or high water, I&rsquo;m going to continue, no
matter how rugged it gets.&rdquo;

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The truth is, very simply, that no-one wants EITHER abandonment OR
retaliation.
</div>

See, that&rsquo;s what you want. What you want is neither abandonment or
retaliation. You want Inclusion. You want Love. You want Kindness. These
are things you really want. And if you would ask for them, you would get
them. But in order to ask for them, you would have to ask from a place
outside your best reasoning, and your best judgments, and your best
thinking. You&rsquo;d have to let God in again.

And so, I will again remind you that Truth shining on you illuminates
everything That Is Real about You to you. And Perfect Love embracing
you, will uncover to you your worthiness of that Love, and inspire you
spontaneously to extend it to others. It will not reject you. And it
will cause you to stop rejecting everything else and everyone else.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Many people SEEK both&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; abandonment and retaliation &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; but it is still true that they do not WANT them. Can you ask
the Holy Spirit for &ldquo;gifts&rdquo; such as these, and actually
expect to RECEIVE them? He cannot make you want something you do NOT
want.
</div>

And let&rsquo;s be clear here. The only things that you can want are the
things God has placed in you for you, because those are the only things
that exist. You can try to get things that you have made-up. But you
can&rsquo;t want something that God hasn&rsquo;t placed in you, and
Whose Will it is for you to have and experience.

The Holy Spirit, again, quote:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; cannot make you want something you do NOT want. When you ask
the Universal Giver for what you do not want, you are asking for what
CANNOT be given BECAUSE IT WAS NEVER CREATED. It was never created
because it was never your will for YOU.
</div>

You see, it&rsquo;s not your will to suffer. It is your demand, at
times, to have things that you have made-up that God did not make. But
those things were never the Father&rsquo;s Will for you. And therefore,
they were never your will for you. And every attempt you make to secure
them will fail, because the whole plot, if you will, to achieve it, is
fantasy.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Ultimately everyone must remember the Will of God because ultimately
everyone must recognize HIMSELF. This recognition IS the recognition
that HIS WILL AND GOD&rsquo;S ARE ONE.
</div>

But the plaintive cry is, &ldquo;But I can&rsquo;t see what it is.
I&rsquo;ve never seen what it is.&rdquo; That&rsquo;s another bit of the
nonsense. &ldquo;I&rsquo;ve lost my lap! Help me find it! I&rsquo;ve
lost my Experience of God&rsquo;s Will. Help me find it!&rdquo; No. You,
the you that you think has never experienced it, is an imaginary you
that you are carrying around in your mind and believing is the
&ldquo;real you.&rdquo; And then this &ldquo;real you&rdquo; asks for
help. This unreal you asks for help in finding the Will of God. You see?

You know what yielding to God means? It means abandoning the ethic of
this unreal one that you think you are; the ethic of this one to become
something real. It means giving up trying to be something on your own,
and praying.

Praying daily, saying, &ldquo;God, fill me up with All Thou Art. I make
room for You. Raj says I know the Truth. It never left me because You
placed it in me. You laid it on me as me in Your Expression of Yourself
right where I am. And it&rsquo;s more important to me to remember it
than it is for this unreal me to try further to secure an existence it
doesn&rsquo;t have and make it real. I&rsquo;m willing to consider the
possibility that I&rsquo;m already Home. I&rsquo;m willing to consider
the possibility that I already am the Ultimate. And I&rsquo;m asking
everything about What I Divinely Am, as well as You, God, to illuminate
in me the True Conscious Experience of my Being, and of my
Brother&rsquo;s, and of my world, that now, I am told, is really the
Kingdom of Heaven seen through a glass darkly. I no longer am asking You
to help me clean the glass, but to put the dark glass down entirely, and
just let the influx of the Experience of Reality fill me spontaneously.
I no longer ask to be fixed up.&rdquo; You see? &ldquo;I no longer ask
to be fixed up. I&rsquo;m willing to abandon the unfixed, the broken
person that I imagined myself to be. I&rsquo;m willing to abandon that
whole perspective so that nothing stands between me and the Birthright
of my experiencing my will, which is Your Will, my true perspective,
which is Your Perspective, Your Vision. Help me. Help me abandon the
task of fixing myself up.&rdquo;

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In the presence of truth there are NO unbelievers and NO sacrifices. In
the security of reality, fear is totally meaningless. To deny what IS
can only SEEM to be fearful. Fear cannot be real without a cause, and
God is the ONLY Cause. God is Love, and you DO want Him. This IS your
will. Ask for this and you WILL be answered because you will be asking
only for what BELONGS to you.
</div>

You see, this little puny self that needs to be fixed up through many
lifetimes of refining, it sees its development as good added unto it by
virtue of its having done something to be worthy of the addition.

But Love reveals to you What Already Is Yours, because it belongs to
you. It has always belonged to you because God withheld nothing of What
He Was, and God withholds nothing of What He Is from His
Self-Expression&mdash;the Expression of Himself that is what is called
you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Ask for this and you WILL be answered because you will be asking only
for what &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and I&rsquo;m going to add the word &ldquo;already&rdquo;
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; BELONGS to you.
</div>

Is already set in place, like set in concrete, in you from the moment of
your conception in the Mind of God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you ask the Holy Spirit for what would hurt you, He cannot answer
because NOTHING can hurt you, AND SO YOU ARE ASKING FOR NOTHING.
</div>

Sometimes when you ask a question of Guidance, you will get no answer.
And you will think, &ldquo;Oh, I&rsquo;m having trouble
listening,&rdquo; when truly you&rsquo;re getting no answer because you
asked no question. All you did was say, &ldquo;Help me find my
lap.&rdquo; You see? You were saying nothing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
ANY desire which stems from the ego IS a desire for nothing, and to ask
for it is NOT A REQUEST.
</div>

Think about it. &ldquo;Will you help me find my lap?&rdquo; Is that a
question? Can that be called a question? Does it make sense? Or,
&ldquo;I am in great need of a sample of dry water. Will you help me get
a sample?&rdquo; That&rsquo;s not a question, because all questions have
answers. All questions lead to something that is possible. All real
questions, that is.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
ANY desire which stems from the ego IS a desire for nothing, and to ask
for it is NOT A REQUEST. It is merely a denial in the FORM of a request.
</div>

&ldquo;God, help me to override this material body that is not my ally,
and the behavior of which says that I am going to die.&rdquo; Is that a
real question? No. Because it postulates the existence of something that
doesn&rsquo;t exist&mdash;a body that can be an opponent of yours,
rather than being the Visibility and Tangibility of your Divine
Individuality. So the question can&rsquo;t be responded to by God.

But if you say, &ldquo;God, help me have the Vision, with a capital
&ldquo;V&rdquo;, of my body as the Visibility and Tangibility of my
Divine Individuality, please. Help me to see What It Really Divinely Is,
so that I may abandon my unreasonable fear of it, and so that I might
embrace it with Love, with Singularity of Mind, rather than the conflict
of wanting my body, but not wanting it because it might kill me.&rdquo;
You see? That&rsquo;s a real question because there is a real answer.
There is a Truth there to be revealed that actually does constitute a
correction of a misperception; a correction of a misunderstanding
that&rsquo;s keeping you in bondage to fear.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
ANY desire which stems from the ego IS a desire for nothing, and to ask
for it is NOT A REQUEST. It is merely a denial in the FORM of a request.
The Holy Spirit is not concerned with form at all, being aware only of
MEANING.
</div>

Being aware only of Meaning, the Holy Spirit experiences nothing when
the words, &ldquo;Help me find my lap. I&rsquo;ve lost it,&rdquo; are
said. Because there was no meaning there. It didn&rsquo;t mean anything.
It doesn&rsquo;t have any meaning.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego cannot ask the Holy Spirit for ANYTHING because there is
COMPLETE COMMUNICATION FAILURE between them.
</div>

This is important.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego cannot ask the Holy Spirit for ANYTHING because there is
COMPLETE COMMUNICATION FAILURE between them.
</div>

This means that when you ask the Holy Spirit for something, and the Holy
Spirit answers, you are asking it from a new place. It wasn&rsquo;t an
ego. It wasn&rsquo;t you as an ego that asked and got an answer. The
very fact that you get a response from the Holy Spirit means that you
have been being in some way genuinely What You Are. You have asked the
question from the Christ In You. And so it demonstrates to you in the
here and now what I&rsquo;ve been saying all along; that you are The
Christ believing otherwise, and believing your belief.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego cannot ask the Holy Spirit for ANYTHING because there is
COMPLETE COMMUNICATION FAILURE between them. Yet YOU can ask EVERYTHING
of the Holy Spirit because YOUR requests are real, being of your will.
</div>

When you&rsquo;re not asking for something impossible, your ego
isn&rsquo;t involved. You see that? When you are asking for something
impossible, your ego is involved, and the very question is postulated in
a way that will keep you from getting an answer, and continue to block
you from the Experience of What You Divinely Are, as well as blocking
you from the potential for correction of the misperception or belief
that keeps you in bondage and suffering.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Would the Holy Spirit deny the Will of God? And could He fail to
recognize It in His &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; God&rsquo;s &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; Sons?
</div>

No. Now listen to this:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The energy which you withdraw from creation you expend on fear.
</div>

How do you withdraw your energy from creation? By withdrawing it from
your partnership with God. By saying, &ldquo;But, Father, I&rsquo;d
rather see it my way.&rdquo; It&rsquo;s as if you&rsquo;re looking
sitting just behind God&rsquo;s eyes, if I may, looking through
God&rsquo;s Eyes, being One with the Entire Movement of Mind called
Creation, and then you say, &ldquo;Uh, excuse me, God. Just a minute.
Um, I have something I need to go do.&rdquo; And what you&rsquo;re going
to go do is look at creation from a different vantage point where you
can see it in a way unique to you.

And so, the energy, or we could say, attention, which you withdraw from
creation, you expend on fear. It&rsquo;s inevitable. The moment you lose
the Father&rsquo;s Perspective, you lose your Experience of your
Identity. You become an orphan&mdash;alone, Source-less. And it is an
uncomfortable experience. Your Divinity sets off the alarms, you might
say, that say, &ldquo;You&rsquo;re out of your Mind,&rdquo; so that you
might notice it, and get back. And so you are consumed with fear. And
then if you become, as I&rsquo;ve said before, devoted to this
independent vantage point, your life purpose will become the overcoming
of the fear.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The energy which you withdraw from creation you expend on fear. This is
not because your energy is limited, but because YOU HAVE LIMITED IT. You
do not recognize the enormous waste of energy which you expend in
denying truth.
</div>

Yes. You do deny Truth. The last thing you really want is for the bright
Light of Truth to shine on you, because you think it&rsquo;s going to
uncover the errors in you. You think that that&rsquo;s the function of
Truth&mdash;to uncover error. Why? So it can be punished. So correction
can be made. The Light of Truth shining on you corrects the errors that
you thought were there by uncovering the Truth, all that&rsquo;s True
About You, right there, right now&mdash;which is the only thing there is
about you there where you are, because God didn&rsquo;t place anything
else there but That Which Is Real, That Which Is True, That Which Is
Lovable.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What would you say of someone who persisted in attempting the
impossible, believing that to ACHIEVE it is SUCCESS? The belief that you
MUST have the impossible in order to be happy is totally at variance
with the principle of creation.
</div>

In other words, it&rsquo;s once again nonsense. &ldquo;I lost my
lap.&rdquo; Nonsense.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God COULD not will that happiness DEPENDED on what you could never HAVE.
</div>

You know, there&rsquo;s just too much damned Integrity to Creation, so
much that you haven&rsquo;t accomplished violating it. And you
haven&rsquo;t accomplished being in actual denial of it. You
haven&rsquo;t succeeded at denying it. Therefore, there is nothing for
you to be punished for. Do you know what this means? It means that not
only can you never earn your way back into God&rsquo;s Love, or into the
Kingdom of Heaven, there is no one &hellip; just a moment &hellip; there
is no one that needs to. It is by Grace that you come Home.

And the only thing that keeps you from spontaneously sinking into the
experience of it, is the conscientious effort you bring to bear to make
yourself worthy, to create a history for yourself that proves your
worthiness. When all God says is, &ldquo;Abandon your attempt to be
worthy. Abandon your attempt to become equal to the Sons and Daughters
of God. All of the effort you&rsquo;re putting forth keeps you so
preoccupied that you miss the Experience of your Birthright that you are
already worthy without works. You are worthy because worth was placed in
you by Me. And it&rsquo;s all still there.&rdquo;

&ldquo;But I don&rsquo;t deserve it. Look at me. Look at the mess I am.
Look at how unwell I&rsquo;m doing things. Look at how unstable I am.
Look &hellip; look at how inconsistently I reach out for God, even
though I want to wake up.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Oh. Did you say you want Me to help you find your lap? You really
think you just said something?&rdquo; I say that to you. God says that
to you. The Holy Spirit says that to you. You are talking nonsense. The
sounds that came out of your mouth, although they seem intelligent and
coherent to you, expressed absolutely nothing, because it talked about a
you that doesn&rsquo;t exist.

And it ignored the you that God Is Being right there where you are right
now, which you would experience if you stopped trying to lift yourself
up by your own bootstraps and attempted to demonstrate and prove your
worth by obediences practiced well. No. If you want to talk to me about
obediences practiced well, or what new obediences you could engage in, I
cannot respond, because you have said nothing. It is meaningless. You
are already Home. You are already the Sons and Daughters of God. And you
are so busy trying to become the Sons and Daughters of God that
you&rsquo;re missing the obvious. And you know what? As long as the push
is on for demonstrating your worth, the Experience of Grace will elude
you. Grace is the only Way Home.

I love you. I look forward to being with you all next week.

[^1]: T8.9 The Acceptance of Reality

