---
title: Dec 19, 2004
ref: "T8.10 The Answer to Prayer"
alink: "/acim/text/08/chap0810/"
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

The chapter we&rsquo;re reading in is entitled, &ldquo;The Journey
Back.&rdquo; And in a way we&rsquo;ve been discussing who or what it is
making the journey back. And for the last two weeks, we&rsquo;ve
discussed the fact that the you, you think you are&mdash;the you, you
have made-up in the absence of your direct connection with your
Source&mdash;in other words, the orphan you have defined yourself
as&mdash;only exists as an imagination; not as a fact. It exists as an
imagination in the only Mind there is, which, with reference to each of
you, is the Mind of Christ. It&rsquo;s the Mind of Christ because it is
God&rsquo;s Mind finding expression in you as the Movement of Creation.

So there really isn&rsquo;t some thing making a journey back. There is
the Christ Mind, you might say, deciding not to energize, or validate,
the steps it took away from Home into a private fantasy, into a land of
definitions; definitions made about things that are Real; definitions
about the Kingdom of Heaven and the Expression of God called
you&mdash;the Christs&mdash;the Christ.

We discussed the fact that you only imagine that you have a will&mdash;a
private, separate, independent will of your own. And that imagination in
no way undoes the fact that the only will you have is the Will of God
that God is exercising right there where you are. Your Mind and your
Will are the Presence of God, and nothing else. Anything else you
imagine is there is your definition.

And to the degree that you believe your definition, you become bound to
it. And at the same time, you cannot escape experiencing a sense of
isolation, because your determination to believe your imagination causes
you to become almost totally distracted from What You Are&mdash;the
Presence of God&mdash;as well as the Direct Experience of the Mind of
God which is your Mind. The Mind of God is a Singularity. The Will of
God is a Singularity. And you are It. It is you.

You see, the journey back involves becoming clear about this. First of
all, about yourself; becoming clear that if, indeed, you want to come
back into your right Mind, you have to stop practicing or using your
mind in a way that is at odds with What It Is, what its Nature is, what
its Function is, so that in the abandoning of the misuse of your mind,
its Function can register with you; its already-established Function.

Now, because of The Way Things Work, divinely speaking, your private
realization about you isn&rsquo;t all there is to waking up.

The end of the last section was in the form of a prayer.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&ldquo;Christ is in me and where He is God MUST be, for Christ is PART
of Him.&rdquo;[^1]
</div>

This expresses the Singularity. Christ is in me. Christ is What I Am.
But Christ is also my Brother. And where my Brother is, my Father must
be. And where I am, my Father must be. Where I am, my Brother&rsquo;s
Father must be. You see, it expresses the Singularity in an
all-inclusive way and leaves no one out.

You cannot wake up by yourself. The first step is to come to an
awareness that your will and the Father&rsquo;s Will are not separate.
They are not two things. They are one thing, and that one thing is
God&rsquo;s Will.

What we&rsquo;re going to discuss tonight brings into play the other
part of what is essential to waking up. What is your Function? If you
were yielding to What You Are&mdash;What You Are, not who you
are&mdash;if you were yielding to What You Are, you would find yourself
engaged in acknowledging the Presence of God in each and every thing. As
we&rsquo;ve said before, that&rsquo;s the meaning of glorifying God. It
isn&rsquo;t eyes toward Heaven with thoughts toward God and to hell with
your brothers and sisters and the world and the universe. [whispered]
God. [regular voice] No.

You don&rsquo;t glorify God by talking to God and giving your full
attention to God. You glorify God by giving your attention right where
you are&mdash;to the poinsettias, to each other. And you abandon
whatever your current definitions are that you&rsquo;ve given it; the
current meanings that you&rsquo;ve applied to them. And you say a prayer
inside, &ldquo;I wish to experience the Presence of God that has to be
there in order for anything to appear to be there to me, whether
it&rsquo;s what&rsquo;s really there or what I&rsquo;m imagining is
there.&rdquo; There has to be something there in either case. You have
to be willing to take the time to get past your definitions, to get past
the meanings that others have given you about whatever it is
you&rsquo;re looking at.

And you have to be willing to say, &ldquo;If anything is there at all,
its Source has to be the Father. And it has to be the Expression of
Meaning that the Father is giving to His Infinite Selfhood, His
Infinity. And I would like to experience that.&rdquo; And then abide
with whatever it is&mdash;the poinsettia, or the leaves, or your
brother, or your sister, or the trees&mdash;to listen, to let in What
There Is Of God there. That&rsquo;s the way you lay the groundwork for
your Function to come back into play where you&rsquo;re able to see What
God Is right there in Its Full Divinity, in Its Reality, in Its Harmony,
in Its Beauty, in Its Loveliness, and in Its Awesomeness. That&rsquo;s
the next step.

First, you have to be willing to recognize that if there&rsquo;s
anything where you are, it&rsquo;s God Presence-ing Himself; not you
presence-ing yourself. And then you have to let yourself be from the
Place of Excellence in you where the Presence of God is being All There
Is to you. And then you find your Function being brought into play.

You know, you&rsquo;ve all at one time or another had the experience of,
let&rsquo;s say, being in your home, or in the car, some place where
you&rsquo;re alone, and you get your head on straight. You meditate. You
become clear. You find your Peace. And your attitude is even; not
suspicious. There is equilibrium. And everything is fine until the phone
rings, or you run into somebody, and a conversation starts&mdash;a
relationship occurs. And then it all goes out the window, right? Either
your feelings about the person, or the way they are behaving, grabs your
attention and you slip right back into all of the existing definitions
that you have incorporated as a part of your perception of things. And
your peace is gone.

This is why I called it the &ldquo;meat and potatoes&rdquo; session
tonight, because your Brother now has to be included in what you have
had to recognize about yourself. I said last week, the petal of the
poinsettia, you are part of the Infinitude of the Being of the petal of
that poinsettia, or the whole blossom, or the whole plant. You are part
of the Infinitude of its presence. And you are as essential to it as it
is to you. Well, so is your gosh-darn Brother and Sister.

Just to be perfectly clear, you cannot become clear within yourself
about your relationship with the Father, and let the Father in, and
flash out, wake up, and leave everybody else behind. That&rsquo;s not
the way it works.

The moment you make that connection with the Father and you yield to the
Father&rsquo;s Will, and let the Father&rsquo;s Will be yours, something
will spontaneously and automatically happen. Something of necessity that
is unavoidable will happen. And that is that that recognition of What
You Are will have to spill over to your Brothers and Sisters. You must
give it away else you won&rsquo;t have it yet. You don&rsquo;t have what
you&rsquo;re not willing to give away. You haven&rsquo;t embodied What
You Are until you embody it. In other words, make it recognizable in the
world. Until you are being in a new way with everyone else because you
know the Truth. Then it becomes yours.

But now you&rsquo;re faced with having to look at the bastard, or the
bitch, whoever it might be, whatever position they may seem to
hold&mdash;sons, daughters, parents, sisters, brothers, employers,
neighbors. You see? You&rsquo;ve got to extend the same acknowledgement
that you&rsquo;ve been willing to embrace about yourself in order to
embody it as you, thus claiming it as yours, thus claiming by
declaration Who You Are, What You Are.

So, let&rsquo;s go to the book.

Now I said it was a &ldquo;meat and potatoes&rdquo; night and maybe you
might find a little gristle in here as well. And all the gristle will be
is the place in you where you have resistance to extending your
acknowledgement of the Divine Truth About You to another, for whatever
justifications you may be holding. It isn&rsquo;t that what there is to
chew is really tough. It&rsquo;s that you don&rsquo;t want to chew that
bite yet. Okay.

I&rsquo;m going to back up to the previous paragraph for a moment.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Bible emphasizes that ALL prayers are answered, and this must be
true if no effort is wasted. The very fact that one has asked the Holy
Spirit for ANYTHING will ensure a response.
</div>

And I&rsquo;m going to drop down.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There are many answers which you have already received, but have not yet
HEARD. I assure you that they are waiting for you. It is indeed true
that no effort is wasted.
</div>

Now continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you would know your prayers are answered, never doubt a Son of God.
Do not question him and do not confound him, for your faith in him is
your faith in YOURSELF.
</div>

Well, what is it when you doubt a Brother or a Sister? When you say you
doubt him, you&rsquo;re saying you doubt his veracity. You doubt the
goodness of his character. You are calling his veracity and his
character into question. You are calling something about him into
question. You are not giving a full honoring of that one. You are
engaging in a form of attack. It is a ploy that is always used to make
another uneasy, ill at ease, confounded, if at all possible, to cause
that one to doubt himself or herself. Why? So that you, in your arrogant
forcefulness, might be able to take control of the situation away from
your Brother, or Sister, and be in charge, and not be at a disadvantage
yourself.

You see, the bottom line of it is a matter of control, and has nothing
to do whatsoever with whether or not the Brother is truthful. It has
nothing to do with whether his character is good or bad. It has to do
with whether or not you can convince that Brother to doubt himself so
that he will abandon any position of authority, or assurance, that
he&rsquo;s been able to muster up.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Do not question him and do not confound him, for your faith in him is
your faith in YOURSELF.
</div>

Yeah. Well, if you lack faith in yourself, you&rsquo;ll want to be in
control yourself. And so you will assume that your Brother is no more
trustworthy than you are, except you&rsquo;re not going to let anybody
know that you think you&rsquo;re untrustworthy. You&rsquo;re not going
to let anybody know that you&rsquo;re willing to do whatever it takes to
get your way, even if it&rsquo;s dishonest, deceitful, hateful.
You&rsquo;ll just do what you need to do with a smile on your face and a
picture of dignity. When you lack faith in yourself, you will express
lack of faith in your Brother.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you would know God and His Answer, believe in me whose faith in you
cannot be shaken.
</div>

Ah! Here&rsquo;s an anchor for you. Something needs to be unshakeable.
And obviously, if you are questioning and confounding your Brother, you
are not having unshakeable faith in him. You&rsquo;re not having any
faith in him at all. You&rsquo;re not having any faith in yourself. But
you know that if you, like a banty rooster or a Chihuahua, make enough
noise and sound fierce enough, you can make almost anything cower in
your presence. And so that&rsquo;s what you do. But there&rsquo;s
nothing presence [present] in that picture of un-shake-ability, of
stability, of groundedness in something True.

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you would know God and His Answer, believe in me whose faith in you
cannot be shaken.
</div>

And I&rsquo;ll add: Whose faith in you cannot be shaken no matter how
bully-ish you behave, no matter how loud a Chihuahua you are.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Can you ask of the Holy Spirit truly and doubt your brother?
</div>

Well, that might not make a lot of sense if it weren&rsquo;t for the
fact that the Holy Spirit is nothing less than your right Mind. So can
you ask of your right Mind truly and doubt your Brother? No. Because if
you ask of your right Mind truly, you will be inspired with the Answer
that is Truth, and that Answer will be experiential in you. And in the
experience of it, you cannot escape the fact that the Answer for you is
true of your Brother as well. And that will cause your perception of
your Brother to change.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Can you ask of the Holy Spirit truly and doubt your brother? Believe his
words &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your Brother&rsquo;s words &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; are true because of the truth which is IN him.
</div>

I believe in you because of the Truth that is in you. And I have been
going on endlessly disclosing to you the fact that there is a Place of
Excellence in you; a place you hadn&rsquo;t dreamed of; something so
perfectly excellent that it perfectly expresses and embodies God.
It&rsquo;s awesome. If you know this is the Truth About You and if
you&rsquo;ve had an experience of it, then you know it&rsquo;s the Truth
About Your Brother.

And &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You will &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; be able to &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; unite with the truth in him, and his words will BE true. As you
hear HIM you will hear ME.
</div>

Well, most of you, if you sit down with the goal of becoming still so
that you might hear me, expect to hear me tell the Truth About
You&mdash;the illuminating, inspiring, uplifting, transformational Truth
About You. And you expect me to do it in a way that will not convict you
of all the things you felt you were worthy of being convicted for, so
that you might be able to gently lay aside the beliefs that justified
penalty, conviction. Why? Well, to speak in biblical terms, because you
know there is no sin in me. There is no willfulness in me. And when you
listen undefendedly for me, you will hear me.

But you know what? When it comes to your brother, you know your brother
too damned well to believe that he, or she, might be the Presence of
Love who could report back to you nothing but the Truth About You. You
see? You know your brother and sister too damned well. You do! And
that&rsquo;s the word you give.

And so you don&rsquo;t listen in the same way. You don&rsquo;t listen.
It doesn&rsquo;t mean there&rsquo;s nothing there that they can say that
might not be the very thing that wakes you up. But damn it, you&rsquo;re
not going to listen, &lsquo;cause you know too well that they&rsquo;re
selfish, self-centered, shitty, small-minded, and their interests are
the only thing they&rsquo;re interested in confirming, supporting, and
rendering successful. So by damn it, you&rsquo;re not going to listen to
them in the way you would listen to me. You see? You&rsquo;re not going
to listen.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As you hear HIM you will hear ME.
</div>

And we could reverse it: As you hear me, you will hear him.

As you hear me, you will hear him. It&rsquo;s all a matter of the
permission you give in your own mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
LISTENING to truth is the only way you can hear it now and finally KNOW
it.
</div>

&ldquo;Listening to Truth,&rdquo; it says, remember? It doesn&rsquo;t
say listening to your Brother&rsquo;s present, limited perception of
himself, or herself. It doesn&rsquo;t mean listening to your
Brother&rsquo;s or Sister&rsquo;s ego definition of himself, or herself,
or the behavior that follows.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
LISTENING to truth is the only way you can hear it now and finally KNOW
it.
</div>

Here it is, a little piece of gristle.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The message your brother gives you is UP TO YOU. What does he say to
you?
</div>

And here&rsquo;s the real question.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What would you HAVE him say?
</div>

Well, you would have him say selfish things because you know the
bastard. You would have him be dishonest because you know him too well.

Do you not think that the Voice for Truth, that the Holy Spirit, that
God being All There Really Is there where your Brother is, cannot
possibly find a way for your Brother to say exactly what you need to
hear? Not what your Brother thinks you need to hear. Not even what your
Brother might think he&rsquo;s saying. But do you not think that
&hellip; do you not think that the Holy Spirit, or God, can have your
Brother say exactly what you need to hear for your benefit, for your
enlightenment, for your growth, and as a demonstration of the fact that
there&rsquo;s something more there to your Brother than the definition
you&rsquo;re so sure of; the definition of him or her that you&rsquo;re
so sure is the truth?

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your decision ABOUT him determines the message you receive. Remember
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; see, here&rsquo;s the second part of it. The first part of it
was that the Holy Spirit is nothing more than your right Mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Remember that the Holy Spirit is in him&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; or her &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and His &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; Voice speaks to you THROUGH him.
</div>

Oh, but you&rsquo;re not going to listen in a way that would allow that
to register with you, because you know there is no good in him.
He&rsquo;s demonstrated it over and over. She&rsquo;s demonstrated it
over and over. They&rsquo;re nothing but willful individualities with
self-interest as the bottom line. You say, &ldquo;You&rsquo;re asking me
to remember that the Holy Spirit is in him or her, and His Voice speaks
to me through them? You&rsquo;re asking me to believe that? More than
that, you&rsquo;re actually asking me to do it?&rdquo;

Hey, if you want to wake up, then your Divinity and your Conscious
Experience of your Divinity cannot be an exclusive gift from the Father
to you, and you alone.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What can so holy a brother tell you EXCEPT truth?
</div>

You see, but you say, &ldquo;Yeah, but it&rsquo;s not a holy Brother.
He&rsquo;s not a holy Brother.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What can so holy a brother tell you EXCEPT truth? But are you LISTENING
to it?
</div>

Hell, no! You&rsquo;re positive it isn&rsquo;t there.

And you&rsquo;re not going to make yourself vulnerable by being
undefended enough to see if it&rsquo;s there. Because while you&rsquo;re
undefended, the bitch or bastard is going to nail you and you&rsquo;re
going to be unprepared. So are you listening to it? No!

Now listen:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your brother may not know who he is, but there is a Light in his mind
which DOES know.
</div>

Your Brother may not know Who He Is, and therefore his behavior may be
bad behavior. His behavior will be misguided if he&rsquo;s not awake
yet. But that&rsquo;s not justification for abandoning him.

And if it sinks in with you that you can&rsquo;t wake up until
you&rsquo;re willing to look at your Brother, or your Sister, with the
intent to see Singularity there, just as you have finally become
convinced it&rsquo;s appropriate for you to do with yourself, what
you&rsquo;ve learned means nothing. If you&rsquo;re not willing to do
that, you haven&rsquo;t learned anything and you haven&rsquo;t brought
all of the elements into play that will constitute a miracle, a sudden
shift of perception.

The sudden shift of perception that you are willing to consider might
happen to you isn&rsquo;t something that will happen only to you. It
will happen to you and cause you to see everything else differently, and
require of you that you extend the Gift you have received, to embrace
everything else with the same acknowledgement. And if that doesn&rsquo;t
happen, the process is incomplete.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your brother may not know who he is&hellip;
</div>

But it makes no never mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your brother may not know who he is, but there is a Light in his mind
which DOES know.
</div>

There is a Place of Excellence in him. And if you don&rsquo;t see the
Place of Excellence in him, you haven&rsquo;t see it or experienced it
in yourself. If you have experienced it in yourself, you will have
immediately recognized that everyone does.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This Light &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in his mind &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; can shine into yours, making HIS words true, and making YOU
able to hear them.
</div>

What does that mean? It means that when you are willing to listen minus
your judgments, you will be able to hear what your Brother is meaning,
no matter what he is saying.

Every time any one of you cries out in pain or complaint, why do you do
it? If it&rsquo;s normal, you wouldn&rsquo;t complain. You would just
let it be. But you complain because somewhere in you, you know
it&rsquo;s illegitimate. Somewhere in you, you know you don&rsquo;t
deserve it. Somewhere in you, you know that there&rsquo;s another way
for you to be experiencing existing. And that&rsquo;s the Truth.

And so the complaint that you register with your voice and your words,
that generally comes out in an obtuse way, and is generally directed at
others in complaint about their behavior, has Truth. At the bottom line,
the Truth that you know that the suffering you&rsquo;re experiencing is
an illegitimate imposition upon you, and it&rsquo;s not your Birthright,
and there is another way for you to be experiencing existing.
That&rsquo;s the Truth that can be heard no matter what the obtuse
exclamations of complaint are.

And so the question is, just as with the poinsettias, &ldquo;Are you
going to be willing to be with Whatever It Is That&rsquo;s Really There,
and abandon your current perceptions and definitions of what it is, so
that you might get to the bottom line of the Presence of God that is
there so that It can replace your definitions, your misperceptions of
It, and all of the attending mistakes that result from the
misperception?&rdquo;

Now you say, &ldquo;Wow! That &hellip; that could really &hellip; I
could really get into that. I mean I love poinsettias, or I love
orchids, or I love this, or I love that. I&rsquo;ll be glad to become
defenseless with it and find out What There Is behind the definitions
I&rsquo;m currently employing about it.&rdquo;

But when it&rsquo;s a Brother, or a Sister, who&rsquo;s registering a
complaint in an obtuse way, you say, &ldquo;Uh oh. This is too
uncomfortable. I&rsquo;m unwilling. I&rsquo;m unwilling to be present
with them.&rdquo; [Instead say,] &ldquo;Let them be present in my mind
with my having an attitude of willingness to be there to listen beneath
the behavior.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This Light &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in your Brother &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; can shine into yours&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your mind &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; making HIS words true, and making YOU able to hear them. His
words ARE the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s answer to you. Is your faith in him
strong enough to let you hear?
</div>

Or are you a self-satisfied, arrogant wimp? Sounds a little
inconsistent, right? An arrogant wimp. A banty rooster. A little
&hellip; a little thing who&rsquo;s going to be aggressive and seem to
be as big as you can be, as ferocious as you can be. It&rsquo;s still
not a lot of presence, you might say.

Is your faith in your Brother strong enough to let you hear? Is your
faith? Do you have the strength to stand there in the presence of what
your conditioning tells you is an obtuse and ugly and bad behavior
that&rsquo;s not worthy of your energy or attention? Are you going to
have the guts to be present there and look behind the presentation to
find the Kernel of Truth that is at the root of the awkward and
inarticulate expression of dignity that is felt, but not understood by
that one. It&rsquo;s felt enough that each one of you yells out in
complaint against suffering, even though you don&rsquo;t realize fully
that you don&rsquo;t deserve to be experiencing any of it.

And it isn&rsquo;t the world, it isn&rsquo;t circumstances, it
isn&rsquo;t the behavior of others, that&rsquo;s causing you to suffer.
It&rsquo;s the fact that you don&rsquo;t remember What You Are. And in
your ignorance, you believe what you think you are. And so you
don&rsquo;t know your right to deliverance from the suffering because of
What You Are. Just because of What You Are.

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Is your faith in him strong enough to let you hear?

Salvation is of your brother.
</div>

Why? Because it&rsquo;s the second half of the process of waking up. The
recognition and experience of the Truth of What You Are is not enough to
wake you up. It must be extended to your Brothers and Sisters. Inclusion
must occur. The complete breaking of isolation must happen in order for
you to have what you are giving, in order for the Truth About You to be
fully embodied&mdash;manifested. That&rsquo;s the only Way It Works.
Why? Because that&rsquo;s the return to your Function.

How can you be awake in the Glory of God, in the Fullness of Being, if
you are not fulfilling your Function? And your Function is the
recognition of What Is Real in each and every thing; the recognition of
God in each and every thing. The acknowledgement of It. That&rsquo;s the
glorifying of God. That&rsquo;s the fulfilling of Creation.

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Salvation is of your brother.
</div>

And I could say to the poinsettia, &ldquo;Your salvation is of your
Brother, or your Sister.&rdquo; You can&rsquo;t &hellip; you can&rsquo;t
be fully Divine all by yourself. You see? Not even the poinsettia can
be.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Salvation is of your brother. The Holy Spirit extends from your mind to
his, and answers YOU.
</div>

What are the messengers that the Holy Spirit, you in your right Mind,
send out? They are the ones that will return and confirm to you their
purpose for being sent out.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit extends from your mind to his, and answers YOU.
</div>

Apparently back from his.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You cannot hear the Voice for God in yourself alone because you are NOT
alone. And His answer is only for what you ARE.
</div>

Not who you are. What You Are.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You will not know the trust I have in you unless you EXTEND it.
</div>

Now you are aware that I have great trust in you. I have an unwavering
trust in you because I know Who You Are. I know What You Are. And I know
you can&rsquo;t ever be anything different from It, even if you imagine
that you can be.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You will not know the trust I have in you unless you EXTEND it. You will
not trust the guidance of the Holy Spirit, or believe that it is for
you, unless you hear it in others. It MUST be for your brother BECAUSE
it is for you.
</div>

You see? There&rsquo;s the Singularity. There&rsquo;s just nothing
private. There are no private thoughts. And there are no private
blessings. And there are no private realizations. And there are no
private insights. If you have an &ldquo;Aha!&rdquo; experience and you
see the Truth more clearly and it has changed you forever, to one degree
or another, every single thing that exists has been changed forever, has
been blessed by the realization.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Would God have created a Voice for you alone?
</div>

Well, it&rsquo;s nice to think that maybe He would, isn&rsquo;t it? And
hey, what if you&rsquo;re the only one that&rsquo;s hearing it? No one
else has yet. It&rsquo;s very easy to believe that now you are in the
position of being the one who&rsquo;s hearing the Voice for God, and you
can be the Messenger of God to the world with this wonderful special
position. You see?

And indeed, you may find yourself giving voice to the Voice for Truth,
and others might be benefiting. But when they begin to hear themselves
as a result of the trust you have in them, because you have let the
trust I&rsquo;ve had in you be extended, you may find yourself becoming
jealous because they heard without as much process as you did. They got
it easier than you did. They heard right away when it took you three
weeks. And now maybe somebody else will listen to them, instead of you.
You see? Oh, boy.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Would God have created a Voice for you alone? Could you hear His answer
EXCEPT as He answers ALL of God&rsquo;s Sons? Hear of your brother what
you would have me hear of you, for you would not want ME to be deceived.
</div>

Another way of saying that is listen to your Brothers in the way that
you would want me to listen to you.

And I&rsquo;m sorry to say that the way you would want me to listen to
you is a lot more benevolent than the way you are willing to listen to
your Brother. And you need to notice that so that you can abandon the
lack of benevolence, the lack of trust that there is a Place of
Excellence in your Brother, the lack of trust that there is a Light in
him. And when you break that habit of perception, and your behavior
ceases to embody your lack of trust in your Brother, you will begin to
hear your Brother differently. And I don&rsquo;t just mean that you will
begin to hear what &hellip; you&rsquo;ll begin to hear the Truth of what
they&rsquo;re saying underlying their awkward expression of suffering.
You will actually begin to hear them expressing realizations that
they&rsquo;re having that you can identify with. And you will begin to
feel more at one with your Brother and Sister. And your ability to
abandon your preexisting definitions of them will be enhanced.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I love you for the truth in you, as God does. Your deceptions may
deceive YOU, but they CANNOT deceive ME.
</div>

Well, are you willing to look at your Brothers and Sisters and
acknowledge within yourself that their deceptions may deceive them, but
they cannot deceive you? That&rsquo;s what you need to do.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Knowing what you are, I CANNOT doubt you. I hear only the Holy Spirit in
you, Who speaks to me through YOU. If you would hear ME, hear my
brothers in whom God&rsquo;s Voice speaks.
</div>

You know what we&rsquo;re talking about? We&rsquo;re talking about
healing. We are talking about transformation. And we&rsquo;re talking
about the fact that you&rsquo;re going to be involved in it. And you
won&rsquo;t be excused from this particular lab, or lab work.

You go into a special care facility and you see children who are
mentally impaired, who do not have the faculty of speech or
communication, and they moan, and they make sounds that are
unintelligible. And the nature of the sounds that you hear are
disturbing to you, and saddening to you, and depressing to you. Why?
Because you&rsquo;re only listening with your ears, so to speak.
You&rsquo;re only listening with your current definitions and
understandings of things. There is a Truth asserting itself and finding
its way into expression awkwardly and inarticulately. And it&rsquo;s a
call for Love.

Well, what&rsquo;s Love? Love is you listening for the Holy Spirit in
your Brother, in that child who can&rsquo;t communicate at all well, or,
shall I say, kindly or unkindly. It can&rsquo;t communicate in anything
other than a moan, or a wail, or a[n] inarticulate sound. But you can
listen for the Holy Spirit in that one. You can listen for the Christ in
that one to see what the Christ is saying, what the Truth is
that&rsquo;s being expressed. You see? You send out a messenger. I wish
to hear the Christ in this one&mdash;the eternal, unchangeable Presence
of God that cannot be inarticulate in any way.

And you listen for that, not being deceived by your present definitions
of things that obscure the Truth there, and make you recoil and want to
withdraw and be depressed. Whether it&rsquo;s an extreme case of
inability to communicate, or whether it&rsquo;s a lesser one where
it&rsquo;s just somebody with a high fever and diarrhea, are you going
to respond to the presentation based upon everything you&rsquo;ve
learned about such appearances, and the definitions and meanings that
have been given to such appearances by others, as well as you from your
own experience? You see? Are you going to care about your Brother enough
to listen beyond the presentation for the Truth that is finding its way
into expression poorly? And remember, it&rsquo;s finding its way into
expression poorly because that one does not know Who He Is or What He
Is.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I hear only the Holy Spirit in you, Who speaks to me through YOU. If you
would hear ME, hear my brothers in whom God&rsquo;s Voice speaks.
</div>

God&rsquo;s Voice is in the wail, is in the complaint, is in the
expression of frustration. But it doesn&rsquo;t come out as God&rsquo;s
Voice, because the one wailing and expressing frustration thinks he is
(or she is) what he (or she) believes he (or she) is, and doesn&rsquo;t
know the Truth, and doesn&rsquo;t know the Freedom that it&rsquo;s their
Birthright to be experiencing. And so, they say they object, thinking
they have no right to object. And so it becomes an expression of disgust
for the situation, an expression of anger about the unjust situation.

But underneath it is the pure awareness that the imposition of injustice
is invalid. And there is immediate release available if that one
released the belief, or the definition, that they&rsquo;re clinging to
that says they have no right to a different kind of experience because
they are just a mortal in a material universe. And so their God-given
Knowing that they don&rsquo;t need to be experiencing this is met by the
strong belief that they have no choice, and objection occurs. And that
is the Voice of God.

If you want to see transformation, you&rsquo;ve got to stop listening to
and validating the form of the objection, and the emotional reactions
you have to those particular forms of objection because they&rsquo;re
offensive to you. They scare you. Why do they scare you? Because
they&rsquo;re going on outside of your comfort zone. And you don&rsquo;t
think you can do anything about it either. You&rsquo;re laboring under
the same sense of limitation that the one complaining is experiencing
and expressing.

But you have the opportunity to get past that because you know you have
an alternative, because that&rsquo;s all we&rsquo;ve been talking about
for two and a half years. So you have the advantage. Now you know that
it&rsquo;s your responsibility to take an active part. Why? Because
until you realize that you can&rsquo;t wake up by virtue of your private
connection with God, and a full sense of what Singularity means, and
your willingness to yield to Singularity, that that is not all it takes
to wake up, until you realize that, you will not realize that you must
extend it in order to have it as you. You must extend it to your
Brother. You need your Brother in order to come fully out of your
orphan-hood, your chosen state of separation and isolation. You&rsquo;re
obligated to do it if you want to wake up. You&rsquo;re not obligated to
your Brother. You&rsquo;re obligated to The Way Things Work.

And if you want to wake up, you&rsquo;ve got to extend the realization
of Truth that you have to your Brother, so that the Truth that is
embodied in you shows. You must come out of the closet, and declare
yourself, and be the recognizable Presence of Truth because why? Because
you&rsquo;ve actually extended it. You&rsquo;ve included your Brother in
the acknowledgement of What Is True about you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you would hear ME, hear my brothers in whom God&rsquo;s Voice speaks.
</div>

God&rsquo;s Voice speaks through all of you, whether you&rsquo;re awake
or not. You are the Presence of Divine Love, whether you know it or not.
And the Gift of What You Divinely Are is being made constantly, whether
you know it or not. And this is true of your Brothers.

And so, you must begin to listen to your Brothers in a new way. You can
count on it that until you are awake, or your Brothers and Sisters are
awake, every word that comes out of your mouth will be, to one degree or
another, self-serving in order to secure your safety and your peace in
the hostile world you think you&rsquo;re in. It&rsquo;s unavoidable.

So nothing that anybody says is an articulate expression of Truth. And
so you cannot trust what anyone is saying, no matter how well
they&rsquo;re saying it. You cannot trust that what they&rsquo;re saying
is what is meant. And if you&rsquo;re going to be an agent for change,
if you&rsquo;re going to be the transforming Presence of the Christ,
you&rsquo;re going to listen behind the words, always for the Meaning. I
don&rsquo;t mean the deep, dark meaning that is giving rise to the awful
behavior. I mean the single, pure, element of Truth that constitutes
that one&rsquo;s freedom that that one feels, but can&rsquo;t express,
because he can&rsquo;t believe that it&rsquo;s the Truth about them. And
their inability to embrace the dilemma that they find themselves in
comes out in an anguished cry. That&rsquo;s what comes out of all of
you.

And healing will not be the result of someone else hearing your anguish.
Healing will come from someone else hearing the Meaning at the bottom of
the anguish that is the Illumination of the Truth that you&rsquo;re
suffering illegitimately, without justification. And therefore, the
suffering has no right to continue to appear to be for another instant.
And there is nothing to support it for another instant. And the one who
sees that can speak in ways that allow for the undoing of the commitment
you have, you who are wailing have to your dilemma because you believe
it&rsquo;s absolute.

Now, the thing is you must be the ones who are willing to listen behind
and beneath for the Light of Truth that is finding its way out into some
form of a call for help, a call for Love. That is if you want to wake
up. That is if you want to rediscover and fulfill your Function, and be
at Home, and be happy, and to experience your Invulnerability, to
experience your True State of Being.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you would hear ME, hear my brothers in whom God&rsquo;s Voice speaks.
The answer to ALL prayers lies in them.
</div>

The answers to all your prayers lie in them.

You want release? Then desire to know the Truth from the Place of
Excellence in you, so there&rsquo;s a reuniting of you with your right
Mind. So that then you can extend your Right-Mindedness as a
transformational healing Presence to your Brothers and Sisters, and
glorify God in them, instead of what they are presenting.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You will be answered as you hear the answer in EVERYONE. Do not listen
to anything else, or you will not hear truth.

Believe in your brothers BECAUSE I believe in you, and you will learn
that my belief in you is justified. Believe in me BY believing in them,
for the sake of what God gave them. They WILL answer you, if you learn
to ask truth of them.
</div>

Now, does this mean that when they&rsquo;re being really bitchy, or
really difficult, that you try to extract the Truth from this
uncooperative, difficult person? No. Because they&rsquo;re already
articulating the Truth very poorly and you can&rsquo;t extract a clearer
expression of it from them.

But you listen for the Truth About Them in them. You feel for It in
them. You ask the Holy Spirit in them to give voice to what they are
Meaning, not what they are saying, so that you may respond from there,
which is the Truth In Them that they will be able to feel because it is
the Truth In Them. And they will recognize that you are hearing them in
spite of what they were saying. They think they&rsquo;re saying exactly
what you will say when you hear what they are Meaning, even though
it&rsquo;s not what your conditioned perceptions say they were actually
saying.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
They WILL answer you, if you learn to ask truth of them. Do not ask for
blessings without blessing them, for only in this way can you learn how
blessed YOU are. By following this way, you ARE looking for the truth in
you.
</div>

You must have an object of your affection if you are going to wake up.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is not going BEYOND yourself but TOWARD yourself. Hear only
God&rsquo;s Answer in His Sons, and you ARE answered.
</div>

If the Holy Spirit is nothing less than your right Mind, all of your
answers are within you already, because you are more than you thought
you were when you thought you were just the result of a sperm and an
egg. You are the Divine Presence of Mind&mdash;the Presence of
Mind&mdash;the spontaneous, all-inclusive, not-missing-a-thing Conscious
Awareness of Existing&mdash;the Presence of Mind.

You say, &ldquo;Well, he had the presence of mind to do such-and-such. I
don&rsquo;t know how he did it under the circumstances, but he had the
presence of mind to do it. Thank God!&rdquo; You see? You aren&rsquo;t
just the Presence of Mind. You&rsquo;re the Presence of Mind&mdash;the
actively-conscious, alert, not-missing-a-thing Conscious Awareness of
Existing.

You are lucky. Next weekend is Christmas weekend. And there&rsquo;s
enough to chew on here for more than a week. So we will not gather
together next Sunday evening, but will resume January 2nd, the day after
New Year&rsquo;s. And we will finish up this section, the rest of the
&ldquo;meat and potatoes.&rdquo;

And we will take time, the next time we gather together, to discuss any
questions you might have about what we&rsquo;ve been discussing. I
encourage you to review what we&rsquo;ve read tonight. And I encourage
you to review what we didn&rsquo;t get to tonight.

I will tell you something. Meat and potatoes stick to your bones and
give you a greater feeling of, for lack of better words, the Substance
of You. And these are very significant points we&rsquo;re discussing
that will strengthen you&mdash;meaning that they will give you the
ability to be less responsive to the fear that comes into play when
bringing the Truth to bear upon relationships become an issue in your
lives. And this needs to stop being scary for you, else you will avoid
what you fear, when your salvation lies in not avoiding what you fear.

I love you.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
[in the background] Happy Birthday, Raj. [^2]

[in the background] Thank you.
</div>

I will wish you all a Merry Christmas. Have fun celebrating my birthday,
realizing that it&rsquo;s simply a temporary means of remembering what
it&rsquo;s important for you not to forget&mdash;that God loves you. And
you could say demonstrated His Love for you by providing you with a
Brother loving you unconditionally as a role model, or an example, of
what it&rsquo;s your Function to do with each other, because
that&rsquo;s the way out of the human condition, suffering.

Okay.

[^1]: T8.10 The Answer to Prayer
[^2]: Students commenting or asking a question

