---
title: Jan 9, 2003
ref: T2.VI Fear and Conflict
---

Good evening. And good evening to everyone who has joined us on the
Internet.

Or should I say good morning? Or good afternoon? It&rsquo;s helpful
sometimes to realize that something as definite as evening seems to you
to be, is only a &hellip; it&rsquo;s only a local perception. And so
those who are joining us from Australia are in the early part of their
day. And those who are joining us from Europe are up very early.
It&rsquo;s about twenty minutes of five in the morning there.

So remember that what seems so definite to you and so real, and
something you tend to govern your feelings according to, are local
perceptions. They are not absolute. It gives you a little bit of a hint
that you might really be in Eternity, in a timeless moment, and that
your very definite sense of what time it is, is pure
illusion&mdash;meaning that it isn&rsquo;t something that can actually
govern you. I know. It&rsquo;s evening. You&rsquo;ve had a long day, and
you&rsquo;re tired. But are you tired because it&rsquo;s evening? Or,
are you tired because you&rsquo;ve given the definition, and you are
governing yourselves accordingly, and feeling tired, like it&rsquo;s
time to relax?

But if it&rsquo;s an instant of Eternity, if I may put it that way, then
this moment is as fresh as dawn. And it holds the promise of the newness
of Creation. And if that was the definition you were giving to it, you
would be surprised to find out how fresh and alert and eager you would
be at this very instant, regardless of what has happened in the last
eight hours. So don&rsquo;t be so sure about everything, because it will
confine you to whatever meanings you&rsquo;ve given to the definitions.

So as they say in Australia [said with Australian accent],
&ldquo;G&rsquo;day.&rdquo;

Okay. We were set to begin on page 27 in the second edition, and page 23
in the first edition. But you know what? This section [Special
Principles of Miracle Workers] is out of sequence. It doesn&rsquo;t come
next.  And its full meaning will not be as apparent to you if we read it
now.  So we will continue with the next part that I actually dictated to
Helen, which is the next section, Section VI, &ldquo;Fear and
Conflict,&rdquo; which appears on page 28 in the second edition, and
page 24 in the first edition. And I will come back to this section that
we have passed over at the appropriate time where its fullest meaning
will have been developed.

So, we will start here.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*Fear and Conflict*[^1]

Being afraid seems to be involuntary; something beyond your own control.
Yet I have said already that only constructive acts should be
involuntary.
</div> 

Isn&rsquo;t that interesting? That sounds like a paradox, doesn&rsquo;t
it? How can constructive acts be involuntary? Constructive acts are
something you usually engage in on purpose, which means it isn&rsquo;t
involuntary. It makes you stop and think, doesn&rsquo;t it? Or at least,
wonder.

And actually wondering is a habit you should get into more than the
habit of thinking you employ, because to stand in wonder is similar to
standing in awe. To stand in wonder is to be a question mark, is to be
attentive without knowing what you are being attentive to. It is an
acknowledgement that you don&rsquo;t know something, but you want to
know what the something is, so there is a curiosity.

And when you do not introduce answers to the curiosity you have, then
the meaning of what you don&rsquo;t yet know about will infill you. And
you will be surprised. And you will have learned. And you will have
grown.  And you will have changed. And when that infilling occurs, you
know what to do, and you find yourself doing it because there&rsquo;s
just nothing else to do. But it wasn&rsquo;t &hellip; but it isn&rsquo;t
by design that you do it. It isn&rsquo;t something you intended to do.
But when the influx of knowing occurred, you found intent accompanying
it that made it utterly clear what to do and how to do it, so that it
was easy to be in the Flow of the Action of the Movement of God.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
My control can take over everything that does not matter, while my
guidance can direct everything that does, if you so choose.
</div>

If you read that slowly and if you are in a cynical frame of mind, the
statement:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
My control can take over everything that does not matter&hellip;
</div>

You might stop reading the sentence, and say, &ldquo;Well, then why in
the hell haven&rsquo;t you taken control better? Because my life is the
pits.  What&rsquo;s going on in the world is the pits. Your control can
take over everything that does not matter? And I&rsquo;m supposed to
think that you have power? And I am supposed to have faith in
you?&rdquo;

Well, then you might read the next part.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; while my guidance can direct everything that does&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and then you come to the last four words, which are the key
words &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; if you so choose.
</div>

My control can take over everything that does not matter, and my
guidance can direct everything that does, IF--and it&rsquo;s a big
&ldquo;IF&rdquo;--or it&rsquo;s a little &ldquo;if&rdquo;&mdash;If you
are willing to yield up control. If you are willing to abandon autonomy.
If you are willing to devalue your own personal authority, and only use
enough of that so-called &ldquo;authority&rdquo; to say to me, &ldquo;I
choose to let You guide me. I choose to yield to your Guidance. I choose
to act upon the influx of Clarity that will come when I stop insisting
on asserting an authority that I think I have.&rdquo; It&rsquo;s utterly
simple.

To the ego, it seems to cost a lot. But you know what? You are not your
egos. Your egos are just a picture that you have adopted. But you
aren&rsquo;t the picture you&rsquo;ve adopted. You are that which has
adopted the picture.  And the You that has adopted the picture is still
the Son or Daughter of God, still the Direct Expression of God in this
very moment. It&rsquo;s the You that has the Real ear right in the
middle of the Kingdom of Heaven hearing me right in the middle of the
Kingdom of Heaven speaking to you, even though what you are hearing is
getting translated into the dream you&rsquo;re currently dreaming.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
May I ask a question?  I&rsquo;m interested in hearing a definition of,
&ldquo;what does not matter&rdquo; and &ldquo;what does matter,&rdquo;
in that it matters or doesn&rsquo;t matter to who? To me, or to the
Universe, or the Holy Spirit?[^2]

When I read this the first time, I thought, I would rather have His
Guidance or His Control take over everything that does matter so I
can&rsquo;t mess it up. And that everything that I think that matters
really doesn&rsquo;t matter, because I&rsquo;m thinking through my ego,
which considers things important that really aren&rsquo;t&mdash;the
transitory things. And that I can get Guidance on that as far as how to
loose myself from them.
</div> 

Indeed. You&rsquo;re partly right. Everything that you think is what
doesn&rsquo;t matter. And I can take care of that. All the definitions
that you have given to everything that have biased your perception of
What It Truly Is, I can take care of, if you so choose. Exactly.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So it&rsquo;s either/or, in other words.
</div>

First of all, what does matter is Creation Itself. What does matter is
What Is Really Going On.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
My control can take over everything that does not matter, while my
guidance can direct everything that does, if you so choose.
</div>

When you have listened for guidance and gotten it, don&rsquo;t you often
say, &ldquo;Well, my Guidance said it&rsquo;s appropriate to do
such-and-such&rdquo;?

Now listen to me using those words.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
My control can take over everything that does not matter, while my
guidance can direct everything that does&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what do you think my Guidance is? My Guidance is what the
Father is saying to me. You see? And my Father can direct everything
that does matter. And my Guidance to you when you are listening to me is
the Guidance I&rsquo;m relaying to you from the Father.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Whether &hellip; whether I think it matters or not, because I
don&rsquo;t have a clear picture as to what matters and what
doesn&rsquo;t matter.
</div>

Except that usually when you are asking, you think you do know what
matters. And you &hellip; and I&rsquo;m not singling you out; this is
true of every one of you. You have your back to the Altar, okay, which
means you are choosing to look at everything from your own private,
separate perspective. And then many times, you call out to God for help
in understanding how to deal with what you are seeing without turning
toward the Altar. So, you are asking for Guidance that is relevant to
the distorted way in which you are perceiving the Kingdom of Heaven. And
you expect the answer to be relevant to the definitions you have given
to everything. In other words, you are asking for Guidance to address
and adjust and correct your misperceptions, while you insist on
continuing to stand in a position that doesn&rsquo;t allow you to see
What Is Really Going On.

You ask for what really doesn&rsquo;t matter to be fixed, and still be
what doesn&rsquo;t really matter. You see? And so, very often when you
listen for Guidance, the answers you get seem not to relate, because you
want the answer to fit the current definitions you are using to
determine the meaning of everything. You see, that&rsquo;s not &hellip;
that&rsquo;s a misuse of prayer. It&rsquo;s not really prayer.

Because prayer involves saying, &ldquo;Father, in spite of how things
appear to me, in spite of how dire they seem, I want to know the Truth.
I want to know What&rsquo;s Real, separate and apart from my best
judgments, my best definitions. I want an answer that goes beyond my
definitions. I want to be infilled with what does matter, so that I can
distinguish between what does matter and what doesn&rsquo;t matter, and
let go of what doesn&rsquo;t matter. And so I will not require you, God,
to conform Your Answer to the lens through which I have chosen to look
at everything. I want You to help me take off the glasses.&rdquo; But in
order to do that, you truly have to be willing to abandon the way
you&rsquo;re currently seeing things, the meanings you are currently
giving to them, and the righteous commitment that you have made to the
way you are seeing things. And that requires humility.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So in these two phrases, whose perspective is it when they talk about
&ldquo;does not matter&rdquo; or &ldquo;does matter&rdquo;? Is it the
Father&rsquo;s Perspective, or is it my ego&rsquo;s perspective?
</div>

Oh, it&rsquo;s the Father&rsquo;s Perspective.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay. Okay. Okay.
</div>

Even though from the ego&rsquo;s perspective, it matters a lot.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yes. I see.
</div>

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Thank you.
</div>

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Fear cannot be controlled by me, but it can be self-controlled. Fear
prevents me from giving you my control.
</div>

Now just to be clear, it means your fear cannot be controlled by me, but
it can be self-controlled. Your fear prevents me from giving you my
control.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
That&rsquo;s makes a lot of difference when you put the
&ldquo;your&rdquo; in front of it.
</div>

Yes. Your fear preoccupies you and causes you to refrain from listening.
Or it is overwhelming enough that you expect my response to treat fear
as though it&rsquo;s real, and correct the supposed cause of the fear,
rather than doing what will cause you to choose for your Peace in spite
of the fear and its apparent cause.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The presence of fear shows that you have raised body thoughts to the
level of the mind.
</div>

And let me just say one thing. If your body could be anesthetized and
you could still be conscious, you would be incapable of having the
experience of fear. Fear is a body sensation. Mentally you determine
what is fearful for you. And when those things which meet the criteria
of your definition occur, your body tenses up; anxiety in the pit of
your stomach. You say that you have become afraid then, and you have, in
effect, let your body lead you, tell you what you are feeling.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Isn&rsquo;t the body just the ego&rsquo;s proof of separation and
aloneness?
</div> 

Yes. But it&rsquo;s also God&rsquo;s Proof of His Presence.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
But if it&rsquo;s fear that&rsquo;s present, then it&rsquo;s from the
ego.
</div>

Exactly. Of course.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This removes them from my control, and makes you feel personally
responsible for them. This is an obvious confusion of levels.
</div>

I spoke last week about how you carelessly characterize the body as
being able to act on its own. &ldquo;Oh, my body isn&rsquo;t cooperating
with me today. I&rsquo;m all thumbs.&rdquo; When you believe that, then
you have lost sight of the fact that the body is simply rendering
visible to you your current beliefs.

If you recognized that your body was reflecting back to you your current
beliefs, you wouldn&rsquo;t say, &ldquo;My body isn&rsquo;t cooperating
with me today.&rdquo; You might say, &ldquo; Boy, I&rsquo;m really
handling my body poorly.&rdquo; And there&rsquo;s a big difference
there.

Because if you recognized that you are the one handling your body, then
you can handle it in a new way. You are empowered, because you
haven&rsquo;t lost sight of the source of the authority for what the
body is doing.  So, when you believe that your body is generating the
experience of fear because there is something fearful, and you
don&rsquo;t realize that it&rsquo;s a choice you are making that you can
make again a different way, it removes the correction of the fear from
my control, as well as yours, you see, and makes you feel personally
responsible for them.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is an obvious confusion of levels.
</div>

The difference, the levels being Mind and matter, or Mind and that which
renders Visible and Tangible that which Mind/God is Being. When you
think that cause lies in the manifestation, you are confused. And
it&rsquo;s level confusion. That&rsquo;s what that means.

Continue &hellip;

Oh.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
My biggest discomfort has come from mental anguish, as opposed to
physical anguish. And so, and then the other thing that comes up for me
is somebody, like Christopher Reeves who has no sensation from the neck
down, still can feel &hellip; can be fearful. You see what I mean? In
other words, his body is, in effect, anesthetized because he has no
bodily sensations because of his spinal cord injury.

So I&rsquo;m having some confusion here because if I compare the amount
of, you know, perhaps I&rsquo;ve been fortunate, the amount of physical
anguish that I&rsquo;ve felt from a testy situation, or what not. I mean
I&rsquo;ll be sitting in a chair and my ego has really got a hold of me,
and it&rsquo;s all in my head. And it&rsquo;s the worst that I
experience as far as being in quote unquote &ldquo;hell&rdquo; is
concerned.
</div>

I will &hellip; let&rsquo;s simplify this. Any anguish you are feeling
is anguish about something going on in the world of form…

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yes. That&rsquo;s true.
</div>

&hellip; as though there were a world of form functioning on its own,
independent of Divine Order and Divine Love and God. So, you are having
confusion about form &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I see. So when is this &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; which ultimately is, whether you call it your body, or the body
of somebody across the room, or the tree out the door, it&rsquo;s all
your Body.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So, when it talks about the bodily level, it&rsquo;s talking about the
material level?
</div>

It is talking about the Visibility and the Tangibility of the Kingdom of
Heaven that you have determined to be a world and universe existing
separate and apart from God, caused by physical dynamics, the big bang,
et cetera.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
That I have to be defended against.
</div>

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Thank you.

I think this is getting to be clear to me now. The choice, &ldquo;if you
so choose,&rdquo; is going on in my mind. The body, the physical world,
that&rsquo;s the part you can take control of if I let go of that part.
</div>

That&rsquo;s the part that God is already in control of.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Exactly.

That&rsquo;s the part in the first part up here that says, &ldquo;My
control can take over everything that does not matter.&rdquo;
That&rsquo;s what that&rsquo;s talking about.
</div>

No. It is talking about all of the definitions and meanings you have
applied to what does matter, which is Reality.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Right. It&rsquo;s going to &hellip; the part that&rsquo;s really going
on is okay. And the part that I&rsquo;ve made-up, that&rsquo;s the part
you can take control over.
</div>

That is correct.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And the choice is going on in my mind. And the problem is I clutter my
mind up with confusion, and identifying with my definitions that
I&rsquo;ve overlaid all this stuff on.
</div>

Exactly.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Now this goes down to the point of thinking that I need to breathe air
and drink water. I mean &hellip;
</div>

In order to exist.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yes.
</div>

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And just getting comfort &hellip;
</div>

But maybe you breathe and drink water for entirely different reason--not
to keep you alive.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
That was coming to me this week. Now I&rsquo;ll &hellip; Thank you.
Thank you.  There are appropriate relationships going on in my life
right now with Basil, or whatever.
</div>

All relationships with all Aspects of the Kingdom of Heaven are going on
in your life right now.

You&rsquo;re just defining them as something else. And in your
commitment to and your conviction about the meanings you&rsquo;ve given
to everything, you are living in a fantasy world that constitutes a
denial of What It Really Is. But there isn&rsquo;t a single thing going
on that isn&rsquo;t already Reality right now, right here.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Thank you.
</div>

You are welcome.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I do not foster level confusion, but you must choose to correct it.
</div>

But you must choose to correct it. It isn&rsquo;t going to happen
without a choice being made. You must choose to correct it. You must
arrive at a point where you are feeling that there must be a better way.
And then choose for finding out what it is.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You would not excuse insane behavior on your part by saying you could
not help it. Why should you condone insane thinking?
</div>

Well, one of the reasons you would condone it is because you don&rsquo;t
realize it&rsquo;s insane.

Your grandparents, your great grandparents &hellip; your great
grandparents taught your grandparents, and they taught your parents, and
your parents taught you what everything was. And they didn&rsquo;t teach
you that it was the Kingdom of Heaven. And they didn&rsquo;t teach you
to be curious to see more of What Everything Is than all of the rest of
the world is seeing, did they?

So you didn&rsquo;t realize that you were engaging in insane thinking.
You were trained to do it. And you were trained to do it in intelligent
ways so that you could respect yourself, and so that others could
respect you. And all kinds of subtle influential meanings became
involved, and kept you preoccupied from being curious to see more of
What Everything Really Is than you are seeing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is a confusion here that you would do well to look at clearly.
</div>

And you are now able to look at it clearly because someone who knows has
said, &ldquo;There&rsquo;s more to everything than what you are
seeing.&rdquo;

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You may believe that you are responsible for what you do, but not for
what you think. The truth is that you are responsible for what you
think, because it is only at this level that you can exercise choice.
</div>

And to embellish that and ground it more completely, what you think is
what you find reflected in your world. So it&rsquo;s extremely
important, what you think.

Now, curiously enough, one of the best thoughts you can have is that
what you think a thing is, is not what it is. One of the best thoughts
you can think is a thought that undoes the value of thinking.

It&rsquo;s like I&rsquo;ve said before, &ldquo;The right use of will is
to choose not to use it.&rdquo; So, your last act of willfulness is one
of choosing to no longer employ willfulness.

Likewise, the best thought you can think is the one that undoes your
valuing of thinking. Why? So that you might be in a position to say,
&ldquo;Thy Will be done.&rdquo; So that you might be in a position to
let me control everything that doesn&rsquo;t matter. So that you might
be the perfect receptor of the Fullness of What God Is Being right there
where you are as you. So that you might come back into your Right Mind
and consciously participate or cooperate in being What God Is Being
right there where you are. You see?

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What you do comes from what you think.
</div>

What you do comes from what you think. Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You cannot separate yourself from the truth by &ldquo;giving&rdquo;
autonomy to behavior.
</div>

&ldquo;Is that so? I don&rsquo;t know what happened, but, you know,
suddenly my foot was planted squarely in his rear end.&rdquo; [some
audience amusement]

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is controlled by me automatically as soon as you place what you
think under my guidance.
</div>

As soon as you place what you think under my Guidance.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Whenever you are afraid, it is a sure sign that you have allowed your
mind to miscreate and have not allowed me to guide it.
</div>

Yes. Is that not clear to anyone? Okay.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
It&rsquo;s clear when I read it here, but trying to put that into
practice, I&rsquo;m having a terrible time. It gets all muddled. If
it&rsquo;s muddled, does that mean that I&rsquo;ve slipped into the fear
thing again?
</div>

Indeed. You have &hellip; you&rsquo;ve stopped listening. You have
started being a separate, private observer.

It just means that you need to turn around to the Altar again. You need
to abandon your thoughts, and become still, and ask for help in
understanding What&rsquo;s Going On, or, asking for help to experience
What Is Really Going On, so that you can respond appropriately to What
Is Truly Going On, rather than responding inappropriately to what you
think is going on, but isn&rsquo;t. When you misunderstand What&rsquo;s
Going On, your actions are going to be based on that misunderstanding,
and your responses will be inappropriate.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
That makes sense.

Can I say something?
</div>

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
When I first started in the Course, it was very clear that they said,
&ldquo;This is a course in mind control.&rdquo; And I didn&rsquo;t like
that when I first heard it, but I really understand it more now. And it
is constantly moment to moment making a decision to either shut up
[laughs], or, you know, let my ego run amuck. So it&rsquo;s a thousand
times a day, whatever it is, I keep reminding myself to face the Altar.
But, you know &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; which &hellip; and another way of saying that is to inquire of
a Source outside of your best judgments and thinking as to what is real.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And I can only experience that when I&rsquo;m quiet.
</div> 

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Other than that I&rsquo;ve got my agenda going full steam.
</div>

Absolutely.

Robbie, if you are feeling muddled, it&rsquo;s because you have &hellip;

(Paul: just a moment.)

&hellip; abandoned the state of inquiry. You&rsquo;ve abandoned
curiosity. You&rsquo;ve closed off to a larger Source. And you are back
in the level of all of the little ideas that you are thinking. And
it&rsquo;s a wonderful indicator to you of what has happened. Not so
that you can be mad at yourself for how careless, or lazy, or sloppy you
are, but so that you recognize that, &ldquo;Oh. Yes. Here&rsquo;s
another opportunity for me to do this simple thing, become curious
again, and ask for help in how to see this.&rdquo;

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
What role does the Workbook play in this mind-training?
</div>

An incredible one.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Is completion of the Workbook important in understanding the message of
the Course?
</div> 

Would you say that again?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Is completion of the Workbook lessons important in understanding the
message of the Course, or in accomplishing the goals of the Course?
</div>

Everything about the lessons in the Workbook are aimed at finessing you
into the position of willingly yielding to God. The Workbook promotes
the shifts of awareness that occur as one slowly or quickly abandons his
or her commitment to his or her own best definitions and best judgments
and best thoughts, and join with the Brotherhood, join with God, reunite
at an experiential level. Can this happen without doing the Workbook?
Absolutely.

As I said last week, you are confronted only by Reality. And in effect,
every single object, every single thing in your experience is Creation
Itself seen through a glass darkly. And in effect, Creation being What
It Divinely Is, every Aspect of It is like a shake on the shoulder while
you are dreaming your dreams. You&rsquo;re constantly getting the
invitation to wake up.

And so, any event of your day, any sentence in the Course, in the Text,
can easily be the shake on the shoulder, the Divine Event, that causes
you to make enough of a shift that more of your attention is on the
Reality outside your perception, outside of your dream, so that you can
make commitment to moving there in your awareness.

Does that answer your question?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So if then any sentence or any lesson or any part can bring about this
shift, then there&rsquo;s no need to make any commitment to the entirety
of the Workbook. Is that what you are saying?
</div> 

The Workbook, I&rsquo;m going to put it this way, the Workbook is the
most advanced tool present in the human condition, if I may put it that
way.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So you would recommend it to everyone listening?
</div>

I would recommend it. I would recommend it to everyone who finds
themselves led to look at it and to engage with it.

It is very specifically constructed, if you will, so as to effectively
cut through the patterns of thought, the definitions, the meanings, that
you have all given to the Kingdom of Heaven that cause it to appear to
be something different, and to weaning you away from the ego structures
that are not you, but which you firmly believe are you. And it is
constructed in such a way as to cause this to happen in spite of your
egos.

If you want to know what it is, it is a most effective means of
distracting your egos over a period of a year in a manner that causes it
to be inattentive to the places where the Divine You recognizes Itself,
and your attention shifts with greater honor to the Divine One That You
Are, so that there is room for God to enter once again into your
conscious awareness as your Conscious Awareness, and you come Home into
your Right Mind.

Now, if the Workbook is the most advanced tool present in the human
condition, in the dream, at this moment for waking up, then it behooves
you to avail yourself of it. But what I will not condone, or support, is
any form of Bible-thumping; any form of Course-thumping; any form of
saying, &ldquo;This is your answer. Digest it whether you want to or
not. And if you don&rsquo;t, you&rsquo;re foolish.&rdquo;

You know what? You could go through the Workbook for a full year and be
finessed into a greater state of being Awake, into a greater state of
Clarity, without turning to the Altar in the middle of you, without
turning to that Flame, if you will, that Illumination that is your
Essential Self, because it&rsquo;s the Presence of God being God right
there as You, because you are part of the Infiniteness of What God Is.

And so, you can devote yourself for a year to turning within, turning
back toward the Altar, and being taught of It by letting It in. And you
might actually make more progress than if you studied the Course for a
year, the Workbook for a year. Why? Because turning to the Flame within
you, the Divinity within you That Is You, causes an intimate involvement
between you as you presently perceive and experience yourself to be and
the Divine One That You Are. And there is a one-on-one relationship, it
would seem, between you and your Self. And that involvement, even if it
is one that doesn&rsquo;t quite cause you to yield to the Divine You
that you are relating to completely, it nevertheless keeps you
constantly in touch with What Is Real, What&rsquo;s Real About You. And
that kind of relationship, because it&rsquo;s purely experiential, will
move you unalterably in the direction of your Awakening.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So the mind-training then would be helpful in a situation, like
Robbie&rsquo;s, where it becomes muddled as you are out in the world
experiencing all this that appears to be coming at you.
</div>

Absolutely. Anything that helps you discipline your mind is profitable,
if it is disciplining your mind to give its attention in the right
direction and yield. Anything that helps you become less sloppy in the
use of your mind, or, shall I say, the use of thoughts, is beneficial.
And as I said, there is no more advanced tool in the dream at the moment
than the Workbook.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Thank you.
</div> 

You are welcome.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
The Workbook got me in the habit of taking several times everyday to
devote to that activity. And then other things started to happen as I
kept those times open. And then there was that time when I began to
start to speak to you and my Guide. And that started to become part of
it. And a lot of it I don&rsquo;t know exactly what&rsquo;s going on.
But just &hellip; and it could be said turning to the Altar. But, just
taking that time several times everyday to look outside of the box of
our mutually-agreed-on definitions, to me is, that&rsquo;s a big part of
the key.  Although the Workbook is obviously very clever the way that
was &hellip; it really got me started.

But I think a lot of what&rsquo;s going on for me now is happening
outside of the dream. I&rsquo;m connecting. And I&rsquo;m getting a
sense of being boxed in by the dream. It&rsquo;s like a feeling.
I&rsquo;m beginning to feel the constrictions of living inside of this
definition that shuts me off from the experience of all the life
that&rsquo;s going on around me.
</div>

Indeed. Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
But the habitual, the just taking the time several times during the day
to step out of whatever is going on in your mind and turning within is
&hellip;that&rsquo;s been the key. And the Workbook got me going in that.
</div>

Yes. Indeed.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is pointless to believe that controlling the outcome of misthought
can result in healing. When you are fearful, you have chosen wrongly.
That is why you feel responsible for it. You must change your mind, not
your behavior&hellip;
</div> 

Let&rsquo;s back up.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you are fearful, you have chosen wrongly.
</div> 

You might say, &ldquo;When I&rsquo;m fearful, it&rsquo;s because someone
else has chosen to behave in a way that&rsquo;s threatening, or
unpleasant.&rdquo;

But &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you are fearful, you have chosen wrongly.
</div>

And here&rsquo;s a simple example. Some people feel at peace and
comfortable with five dollars to their name, where other people panic
when their bank account gets down to an amount that will only cover them
for one month. You see? One person is afraid of spiders, and another one
lets them crawl all over them.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you are fearful, you have chosen wrongly.
</div>

Wrongly, because if you were looking at it through the Father&rsquo;s
Eyes, you would find nothing to be afraid of, because you would find
nothing in your experience foreign to you.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Which part do you want me to do?
</div>

You must change your mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You must change your mind, not your behavior, and this is a matter of
willingness. You do not need guidance except at the mind level.
Correction belongs only at the level where change is possible. Change
does not mean anything at the symptom level, where it cannot work.
</div>

That is simple and clear. Yes. Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The correction of fear is your responsibility.
</div>

Notice that it doesn&rsquo;t say, &ldquo;correction of what is
fearful.&rdquo;

If you have a relative, or a friend, or a boss, who is behaving in an
unloving way and it causes you fear, you might think that they need to
be changed.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The correction of fear is your responsibility.
</div>

It&rsquo;s very simple. The experience of fear is always a waste of
energy, because it accomplishes nothing.

You can be perfectly clear about something that is going on without
experiencing fear, and in the absence of fear, together with your
ability to recognize something that needs to be corrected, have
available to you the ideas and the actions that will correct what needs
to be corrected. Fear is not essential to the correction of a problem.
When something is going wrong, you can recognize that something is going
wrong without engaging fear within yourself. And that&rsquo;s what is
desirable, so that in your Peace, you may have Clarity that is able to
respond to the situation appropriately, and resolve it quickly, without
aggravating it.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you ask for release from fear, you are implying that it is not. You
should ask, instead, for help in the conditions that have brought the
fear about. These conditions always entail a willingness to be separate.
</div>

Yes. Because, inevitably, when you separate yourself from the Whole, you
suddenly &hellip; after experiencing being Infinite, you suddenly
experience being tiny and on the outside--separate. And it is an
unnatural experience. And it doesn&rsquo;t feel good. And your Sanity
says, &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t stay here too long.&rdquo; Now, that&rsquo;s
Wisdom. But in a separated standpoint, it can sound like a threat, or a
warning, that says, &ldquo;Danger. Danger. Danger.&rdquo; And then you
can become defensive and get stuck in that separated place.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
At that level you can help it. You are much too tolerant of mind
wandering&hellip;
</div>

And that&rsquo;s what you are talking about Robbie--mind wandering.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and are passively condoning your mind&rsquo;s miscreations. The
particular result does not &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; passively condoning your mind&rsquo;s miscreations. By not
being alert and catching spurious thoughts and correcting them or
stopping them, you passively condone them. And as you do that, you
slowly become subject to the insanity of them.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The particular result does not matter, but the fundamental error does.
The correction is always the same. Before you choose to do anything, ask
me if your choice is in accord with mine. If you are sure that it is,
there will be no fear.

The particular result does not matter, but the fundamental error does.
</div>

And the fundamental error is that you are letting your thoughts flow
without being joined with One who can distinguish between What Is Real
and what is not. It&rsquo;s a lack of mental discipline, a lack of
making a choice.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The correction is always the same.
</div> 

Turn back to the Altar.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Before you choose to do anything, ask me &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; or ask God or ask your Guide &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; if your choice is in accord with &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; ours. Meaning God, your Guide, Me.

See, that breaks the isolation. That&rsquo;s the key. That&rsquo;s where
the discipline comes in to stop willy-nilly rambling with a flow of
thoughts originating from where? From your past experience.

If you ask me if your choice is in accord with mine, and after having
asked and experienced the answer and the meaning that accompanied it you
are sure that it is in accord with mine, there will be no fear. There
simply will be no fear. Because the fear wasn&rsquo;t occasioned by
something fearful. It was occasioned by being unjoined, being alone. You
see?

The answer always lies in breaking the isolation. The answer to what?
The problems, the distresses that you experience as a result of choosing
to be alone, isolated, and separate. Join with Me. Join with your
Guides. Join with the Father. &ldquo;Join&rdquo; is the key word. You do
not have to do all of this on your own by yourself. You are not isolated
entities that are the product of a sperm and an egg and a physical
universe, with a mind that&rsquo;s in your brain. Join, reach out, ask,
inquire, be curious, and let in the response. And your fear, and your
confusion, and your distresses, and your anxieties, will be nonexistent
in the communion.

Paul can verify that to anyone who wants verification, because when he
is being with me as he is right now, there is no self-consciousness.
There is no fear. There are no concerns. And if he would stay with me
after the Gathering is over, he would find that all the things that
await him would not be overwhelming or fearful or draining, if he would
look at them with me, and we did them together. He says he&rsquo;s
chicken.  [some audience laughter] But he is getting closer and closer
to doing it. Because what used to bother him, bothers him more. And as
you said, being in the box is more uncomfortable and more confining than
it seemed to be a long time ago. But the answer is the same for
everyone. And it&rsquo;s simple.

You know, going through the Workbook will not necessarily quickly cause
you to abandon your allegiance to your best definitions, and your best
ideas, and your best thoughts. What will cause it, is your frequent
request of God to fill you up with whatever you need to know to meet the
events of your day that you have been told is a day in the Kingdom of
Heaven.

One of the key lessons in the Workbook is, &ldquo;Today I will make no
decisions by myself.&rdquo; Whew! Well, that&rsquo;s what I&rsquo;m
talking about. Break the isolation. Stop valuing the independence.
Prefer to find out what the Experience of Unity is, what the Experience
of Family is, what the Experience of Communion with All of Creation is
like. And be curious constantly, as often as you can, without bringing
your imaginations into play.

Doing this is not going to take you away. You will not suddenly be
lifted out of the world, separated from loved ones, separated from the
beauty that you do see around you. What will happen is that everything
that has nothing to do with What Is Real around you, will vanish, so
that everything that is around you will be experienced in its full
Meaningfulness, full Divine Meaning. Everything you are experiencing
right now will be infinitely enhanced. And so, the only thing it&rsquo;s
going to cost you are your illusions.

The correction to fear, which is the first stage of misperception of
everything &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The correction is always the same. Before you choose to do anything, ask
me if your choice is in accord with mine.
</div>

Break the isolation. Don&rsquo;t do it alone. A simple, beautiful Truth.

And that&rsquo;s where we will end for tonight.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Thank you.
</div>

I thank you. I thank you. Okay.

[^1]: ACIM 2nd Ed: T2.VI Fear and Conflict
[^2]: Students commenting or asking a question.

