---
title: Jan 16, 2003
ref: T2.VI Fear and Conflict
---

Good evening. And welcome.

The subject of the section we&rsquo;re in is &ldquo;Fear and
Conflict.&rdquo; And I just want to refresh everyone&rsquo;s mind about
what we spoke of last week, and that is that when you turned your back
to the Altar, when you looked outside of yourself rather than within,
that act of turning your back on the Altar caused a disconnection from
your Essential Being and your Sanity, with a capital &ldquo;S&rdquo;.
And that act itself was what caused every succeeding experience to be
colored by fear.

Having conveniently forgotten that you turned your back on the Altar,
you think that your fear is occasioned by what you are seeing. And so
then, in order to get rid of the fear, you engage in trying to change
the world out there, to change what you are seeing, when that
won&rsquo;t negate the fear at all. The only thing that will negate the
fear is what caused it. And what caused it was to turn your back on the
Altar. So, let&rsquo;s keep this in mind as we proceed.

And we will start here.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Fear is always a sign of strain, arising whenever what you want
conflicts with what you do.[^1]
</div>

Anybody not clear on what that means? I&rsquo;m sure everyone has
experienced the conflict between what they want and what they do. And
many times you sacrifice your integrity by doing what you think you need
to do, let us say, to survive, and then you live with the disturbance
within you.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This situation arises in two ways: First, you can choose to do
conflicting things, either simultaneously or successively. This produces
conflicted behavior, which is intolerable to you because the part of the
mind that wants to do something else is outraged. Second, you can behave
as you think you should, but without entirely wanting to do so. This
produces consistent behavior, but entails great strain.
</div>

I&rsquo;m not commenting here because this is utterly and simply, clear
English.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In both cases, the mind and the behavior are out of accord, resulting in
a situation in which you are doing what you do not wholly want to do.
This arouses a sense of coercion that usually produces rage, and
projection is likely to follow.
</div>

Mind you, at the bottom line, what you are doing that is not consistent
with what you want is being done because you have chosen to do it. That
simple fact needs to be very clear. You haven&rsquo;t done it because of
circumstances, even though you might project your decision and your
action out there in order not to have to take responsibility for it.

But the fact is that you have said, you have defined the situation in
such a way that you say to yourself, &ldquo;I have no choice but to do
what I don&rsquo;t want to do, and so I am going to do what I
don&rsquo;t want to do.&rdquo; And many times, what you choose to do is
not principled. And so, you&rsquo;re going against your very own
principles and you feel coerced. Naturally you feel coerced by the
circumstances to act inconsistently with your own integrity. And then,
once you blame your circumstances, that is where you let your fear erupt
and be expressed.

But you must not forget that the reason you are behaving the way you are
behaving is because you have defined the situation such that, you say,
&ldquo;I have no other choice. My circumstances require me to be
unprincipled.  My circumstances require me to break the law. My
circumstances require me to behave, let us say, in an ugly way because I
am so frustrated by my circumstances.&rdquo; When the fact is that you
are frustrated because you have defined the situation, and believed your
definition, and said you have no other choice than to behave in a way
that is upsetting to you.

If you remember that it&rsquo;s your definition and your choice, and
that there are other definitions of what&rsquo;s going on available to
you, then you will be empowered to make a change, and not be required to
blame circumstances.

Continue.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Whenever there is fear, it is because you have not made up your mind.
Your mind is therefore split, and your behavior inevitably becomes
erratic.
</div>

That&rsquo;s called sitting on the fence.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Correcting at the behavioral level can shift the error from the first to
the second type, but will not obliterate the fear.
</div>

Why? Because the only thing that will obliterate the fear is to stop
looking at everything all by yourself and giving it all the definitions
you&rsquo;re giving it. Again, the only thing that will correct the fear
is turning back to the Altar.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is possible to reach a state in which you bring your mind under my
guidance &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; oh no! There it is again. Bring your thoughts under my
Guidance.  It&rsquo;s getting monotonous, isn&rsquo;t it? But what is
getting monotonous is pure simplicity. It&rsquo;s reminding you that the
answer isn&rsquo;t complicated.  And when you reach for my Guidance, you
are, in effect, turning back to the Altar. You are choosing not to be
independent. You are choosing to join. Joining occurs as a result of
your connection with the Altar in the middle of you.

Continue. Start the sentence over.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is possible to reach a state in which you bring your mind under my
guidance without conscious effort, but this implies a willingness that
you have not developed as yet. The Holy Spirit cannot ask more than you
are willing to do. The strength to do comes from your undivided
decision. There is no strain in doing God&rsquo;s Will as soon as you
recognize that it is also your own.
</div>

Now, the recognition that it is also your own, might not come until your
distress caused by your insistence to look at everything by yourself has
become so uncomfortable that you arrive at a point where you experience
the meaning of the words, &ldquo;There must be another way.&rdquo; You
might not have the slightest idea what the other way is. But, when you
arrive at that point, you face the option of abandoning your convictions
and your willfulness, and reach out for help, which again is turning
toward the Altar to break the isolation. There must be another way and
you don&rsquo;t know what it is, but you know that you cannot persist in
your commitment to looking at everything by yourself.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The lesson here is quite simple, but particularly apt to be overlooked.
I will therefore repeat it, urging you to listen. Only your mind can
produce fear.
</div>

Let&rsquo;s emphasize the word &ldquo;*your*.&rdquo; Only your mind can
produce fear.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It does so whenever it is conflicted in what it wants, producing
inevitable strain because wanting and doing are discordant. This can be
corrected only by accepting a unified goal.
</div>

Yes. Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The first corrective step in undoing the error is to know first that the
conflict is an expression of fear.
</div>

Now this applies to any conflict of any kind. Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Say to yourself that you must somehow have chosen not to love, or the
fear could not have arisen. Then the whole process of correction becomes
nothing more than a series of pragmatic steps in the larger process of
accepting the Atonement as the remedy. These steps may be summarized in
this way:

&ldquo;Know first that this is fear.<br/>
Fear arises from lack of love.<br/>
The only remedy for lack of love is perfect love.<br/>
Perfect love is the Atonement.&rdquo;
</div>

And the Atonement is only available to you as an experience when you are
willing to abandon what you are seeing as the world out there, and going
within into the silence, and asking for help of God, of the Holy Spirit,
of Me, of your Guide. It is one simple answer.

The biggest aspect of it is that you must be willing to set aside what
seemed so all-fired important to you to be afraid of, to set aside all
of the thoughts you have about it, to set aside all of the hurt feelings
that you have about it, and to let your mind become still so that when
you say &ldquo;help&rdquo; and you reach out and break the
disconnection, you can hear and feel the response, the embrace, the
Clarity, the Love that will infill you and re-inspire you to Love.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I have emphasized that the miracle, or the expression of Atonement, is
always a sign of respect from the worthy to the worthy.
</div> 

Now, I would suggest that you not start this with you and someone else
quote &ldquo;in the world,&rdquo; but that you start this with yourself
and with your Guide; yourself and with Me; yourself and with the Holy
Spirit; yourself and with God. There will be less argument, less
resistance from you if you will do this.

And the response you get will acknowledge your worthiness, and inspire
the experience of your worthiness in you, and will then prepare you to
turn to your Brother or Sister looking for, sending out the messengers
for, that will come back to you and confirm to you your Brother&rsquo;s
or Sister&rsquo;s worthiness, which will then set into motion the
circumstances, the dynamics, that will allow your Brother or Sister to
be inspired experientially with an experience of their own worth, and
thereby have the capacity to recognize and acknowledge in you, your
worth.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The recognition of this worth is re-established by the Atonement. It is
obvious, then, that when you are afraid, you have placed yourself in a
position where you need Atonement.
</div>

That position is with your back to the Altar. Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have done something loveless, having chosen without love. This is
precisely the situation for which the Atonement was offered. The need
for the remedy inspired its establishment.
</div> 

Even more than that, the fact that it is impossible for you to become
something you are not, established the fact that you must, sooner or
later, remember that fact, so that everything that follows your having
turned your back on the Altar, will serve to be that which will lead you
to turn around once again. It&rsquo;s inevitable because What God Has
Made cannot be undone.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The need for the remedy inspired its establishment. As long as you
recognize only the need for the remedy, you will remain fearful.
However, as soon as you accept the remedy, you have abolished the fear.
This is how true healing occurs.
</div>

Yes. Pardon.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Let&rsquo;s speak to that one moment.[^2]
</div>

Someone has asked me to speak to that.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As long as you recognize only the need for the remedy, you will remain
fearful. However, as soon as you accept the remedy, you have abolished
the fear.
</div>

How many of you have had the experience of having a serious,
frightening, upsetting, disturbing problem, and you do turn to God, or
you do turn to your Guide or the Holy Spirit, and you pour out your
heart, and you tell them what your problem is, and you go on, and on,
and on, describing just how bad the situation is, what the dynamics are,
what your best perception of the situation is, and you don&rsquo;t shut
up long enough to hear the answer because you are so preoccupied with
the problem and all of its multiplicity of dynamics? That&rsquo;s it in
a nutshell. As long as you recognize only the need, as long as you will
let only the need fill your mind even when you&rsquo;re asking for help,
you will not be in a receptive mode to hear the answer.

So, be aware of the need, express the need briefly, and then shut up and
listen. And listen as long as it takes to hear the answer. And if it
doesn&rsquo;t come tonight, then your next free moment or your next free
hour continue, and persist listening for the answer without rehearsing,
and rehearsing, and rehearsing the problem. Devote yourself to the
joining with the Father, or the Holy Spirit, expecting the answer.

Microphone.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
With that in mind, the recommendation that you just gave to start with
yourself rather than other individuals.
</div>

Start with yourself and the Holy Spirit.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And the Holy Spirit.
</div> 

Rather than yourself and your fellowman.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I see. Right.

Whereas so much of conflict can come from a result of relationship.
Someone else pushing your button. Holy Spirit using your Brother to push
your button. And you&rsquo;re trying to understand it, or one is trying
to understand it. The need is there, but the complexity &hellip;
I&rsquo;m not sure I&rsquo;m being clear. When in relationship, conflict
can be more prevalent, appropriately dealt with, or brought to surface.
To back away from that and just look at your own fears. The fear of
attack. The fear of lack of love.
</div>

No! No! No! I didn&rsquo;t say to bring your attention to yourself and
your psychology. I told you to bring your attention to the Father, bring
your attention to the Holy Spirit. Bring your attention to someone other
than the one you&rsquo;re having problem with. In other words, bring
your attention to someone whom you do not have to be defended against so
that you might become defenseless.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
It&rsquo;s that separation, that dividing.
</div> 

Pardon.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Being in conflict. The stopping and saying, &ldquo;I need to turn
to my Guide.&rdquo;
</div> 

Exactly.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And not engage in the rhetoric, as you explain it. It&rsquo;s that fear
of attack which I know the Course &hellip; or the experience of
perceived attack that I believe makes this simple thing not easy.
</div> 

That is correct. But perceived attack is the only way you can see any
part of the Kingdom of Heaven when you are looking at it all by
yourself.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Because if you are facing the Altar, in touch, then you will not
misperceive the misperceived attack.
</div> 

You will not misperceive an attack where there is none. And you will see
What Is Really There. And the Vision of What Is Really There that is
provided to you, will cause you to behave with Love in that direction,
which is the Atonement.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I&rsquo;m working with the perceived attack.
</div> 

That&rsquo;s the problem.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I&rsquo;m trying to separate from that. Is there any &hellip;
</div>

You separate from it by withdrawing your attention from it, and
redirecting your attention to the Altar within, to the Holy Spirit, to
me. You arrive at a point where you say to yourself, &ldquo;It is less
important to me to defend myself against the attack than to be in
communion with a Brother whose Spirit and Presence will fill me with the
experience of my Invulnerability, the experience of my Divinity, the
experience of my utter safety, so that I might completely abandon the
use of fear. And so that I might completely abandon any inclination to
attack in defense of myself.&rdquo; You see? So that then you might be
in a spontaneous, inspired frame of mind to behave in a new way with
this one you had seen as attacking you.

And if indeed this Brother or Sister who you had seen as attacking you,
if indeed he or she was behaving out of fear as well, your benign
Presence and the Gift of Love that you bring to him or her, will lay the
groundwork for them to feel safe enough to abandon their fear as well,
and have the situation transformed.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And that&rsquo;s Reality. That is the purpose of the moment.
</div>

That is correct.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Is that correct?
</div> 

That is correct.

It is utterly simple. It only seems difficult because you are so
convinced of the way you are perceiving things, having forgotten that
everything you perceive will be perceived improperly as long as you are
looking at it all alone, having your back to the Altar. So, no apparent
threat that you experience is valid. It is the inevitable result of
having said, &ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;d rather look at it myself. Father,
I would rather look at it all by myself. Father, I&rsquo;d rather look
at and determine for myself what it is.&rdquo; You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I understand. Thank you.
</div>

You are welcome.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
That&rsquo;s a big statement that shocks the sensibilities: No apparent
threat is valid.
</div>

Thank God someone is saying it.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So in any situation where I think I&rsquo;m being attacked, I&rsquo;m
wrong? In any situation &hellip;
</div> 

Lets put it this way. In any situation where you think hate is being
expressed, you are wrong. As the Course says, everything that&rsquo;s
happening is either Love, or a call for Love. So when you see attack,
what is really going on is a call for Love.

What Is Really Going On is a request for someone to see that the fear
that is motivating the attack is invalid, and the desire to feel and
know that it is invalid. The behavior seems to call for defense, but
what will solve the problem of the apparent attack is a Presence of
fearlessness, a Presence of Peace, the Presence of Love that conveys one
way or another that the behavior is not frightening. And therefore, your
Brother is not frightening, even though he is behaving in a way that is
attempting to engender fear.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So the proper response to an apparent threat is to deny the validity of
that apparent threat.
</div> 

Indeed. You deny it and you go within and ask to be filled with the
appropriate response… the appropriate response to the call for Love. In
other words, the form of Love that will completely obliterate the fear
that has engendered an aggressive act, a show of hate.

Anyone who is expressing hate is experiencing a severe lack of
self-appreciation, of self-worth, a complete lack of his or her being
lovable. And the attack is a completely distorted way of saying,
&ldquo;Look at me. I am better than I think I am. I am better than I
think the world thinks I am. I do not deserve to be suffering like
this.&rdquo; But those kinds of intelligent words aren&rsquo;t what come
out. What comes out is hateful words expressed toward you, distress with
you, slanders on your character.

But if you are able to stand there recognizing, because you&rsquo;ve
turned toward the Altar, that this is a call for Love, and you are at
the very least unmoved by the behavior, still in your peace, you have
conveyed silently something extremely important to the person in such a
great state of fear that he would ask for help through an act of hate.
And that is that who he is, and how he is feeling, and how he is
behaving, is not disturbing to you, and therefore maybe, because you
aren&rsquo;t confirming his awfulness to him, maybe there&rsquo;s
another way to look at himself in which he isn&rsquo;t awful. And the
moment [snap of the fingers] a glimmer of that occurs within him, he is
able to abandon his commitment to his conviction that he has
justification for fear, and communication can open. And when you
continue to be the Presence of calm Intelligence and Love, and he feels
your benign-ness, he is able to relax and, you might say, warm up to
you.

So, does that answer your question?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yes.
</div> 

Okay.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So, taking this just a little bit further, so okay, we&rsquo;re like
we&rsquo;re doing it with the Holy Spirit, and we&rsquo;re doing it
one-on-one with people who want to attack us. Let&rsquo;s say
you&rsquo;re in a group of people and they are attacking one another, or
that&rsquo;s what it&rsquo;s looking like to me, so I have to go and
turn toward the Altar and try to, you know, be in my Peace. Right?
That&rsquo;s really hard to do.

And even when I do that, sometimes it really feels like I&rsquo;m not
making any difference, or contributing in any way to these people that I
care about a lot, who I&rsquo;m seeing having distress with one another.
</div> 

Well, one way in which you are helping is that out of the group of
people, there is one fewer of that group contributing to the insanity.
And by your withdrawal of your participation, it&rsquo;s that much more
difficult for everyone else to maintain the chaos.

Now, you don&rsquo;t do this so that you can have control and make a
healing happen. You do it because you are remembering your Function,
even if everyone else has not remembered theirs. It&rsquo;s that simple.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
It&rsquo;s a really different way to be with people than we&rsquo;ve
been with people, though. I mean I feel like it&rsquo;s kind of like to
be like with you first, and like receiving your tone, kind of. And, but,
sometimes to people it looks like you don&rsquo;t give a shit, or, you
know, you&rsquo;re withdrawing, or, you know, you&rsquo;re not playing
with them the way you used to, or &hellip;
</div>

That is correct. And you must &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
[laughing] And then they really try to get you in.
</div> 

Yes. And you must &hellip; you must understand what&rsquo;s happening
and let them go through their withdrawal pains, if you want to call it
that&mdash;the experience of not having you as their drug of choice that
continues their misperceptions.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I guess I &hellip; I guess it brings up a lot of feelings of inadequacy
of how to answer the call for Love, I guess.
</div>

That&rsquo;s because everyone who is engaged in attacking each other is
feeling a sense of potential power in converting and changing the other.
And what you are doing is not being done for the purpose of changing
anyone. And so, because you&rsquo;ve just stepped out of that arena of
the exertion of power for the purpose of changing each other, it feels
like you have moved into a place of powerlessness.

But you have moved into a place of what I&rsquo;m going to call Infinite
Groundedness. And as each one of you makes that choice to be in that
place of Infinite Groundedness, you provide what I&rsquo;m going to call
a leverage against the dream that far exceeds the little bit of
willingness that you were able to bring to the process. Because what you
find yourself joined with is Infinite.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I think sometimes I have wanted them to change, though.
</div>

Pardon.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I think sometimes I have wanted them to change, and that&rsquo;s
probably what I&rsquo;m wrestling with it. Right? It&rsquo;s kind of
like you turn toward the Altar and you feel that kind of Groundedness
and Infinite &hellip; like you&rsquo;re saying. And then you turn back
and see all this chaos. So, try to muck around in it, change them, say a
few good things. That doesn&rsquo;t work. You know, it&rsquo;s kind of
this &hellip;
</div>

And since you&rsquo;re moving out of an arena in which changing each
other is the modus operandi, it&rsquo;s easy to think that turning to
the Altar is a new and better way to change everyone.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
[laughs] Right.
</div>

And when that doesn&rsquo;t happen, you wonder what has gone wrong.

Remember, the more who are Awake, the more difficult it is for those who
are asleep to continue dreaming dreams. And so it might not seem
immediately rewarding in the larger picture to have made the choice for
your Peace, to have returned to your Function, and to do it because it
simply is your Divine Function, and not because of some power it gives
you to be a force for good in the illusion. You see?

Okay.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Raj, turning to the Altar also means surrendering in that moment. And in
surrendering, we join. And then by joining &hellip;
</div>

Well, joining is you surrendering your autonomy. Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay. Okay. Right. But I mean, they are one and the same?
</div> 

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And in the Course it also says, and this really hit me hard, is that
anything that we perceive lacking in any situation is what we
haven&rsquo;t brought to the situation. And so that goes along with what
we&rsquo;re talking about here. And so joining, or turning to the Altar,
means that not only do we surrender, but that we trust that God is in
charge of the situation.
</div> 

Surrender doesn&rsquo;t occur without trust.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay. All right. That&rsquo;s a good point because they have to be all
combined here.
</div>

Indeed.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And I also remember you stating that if&mdash;and I think it was last
week&mdash;but I wasn&rsquo;t here to hear it, but I heard it, but I
read it&mdash;that if we would allow you to control, to guide us in all
that is meaningful, you will take care of all that is meaningless.
</div>

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So that would apply in this kind of a situation.
</div> 

Of course.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And so trusting that the Holy Spirit is in charge also means that the
Holy Spirit is in charge in the other person, too.
</div> 

Of course.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Well, I&rsquo;m just clarifying how this works.
</div> 

Indeed.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So it&rsquo;s very important to trust. Surrender.
</div>

That is the element of charity that was discussed last week.
Because charity acknowledges that another is further ahead than where
their behavior indicates they are.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Ah. You are appealing to the best in them. Or you&rsquo;re addressing
the highest in them.
</div>

You are acknowledging the highest in them. When you acknowledge that the
Holy Spirit is in charge of them as well, you are acknowledging
something that is apparently beyond their present sense of themselves,
and beyond what their behavior is indicating their point of growth is.
So yes.

Now mind you, we&rsquo;re not talking about an intellectual
acknowledgement of the Holy Spirit being in charge. Because when you
turn to the Altar and you are infilled with the Father&rsquo;s Love, you
know that the Holy Spirit is in charge of them, that the Father&rsquo;s
Love is embracing them as well.  What you find yourself knowing about
yourself, you know is utterly True about your Brother, and so you are
acknowledging a point they don&rsquo;t seem to have grown to yet. And
that is charity.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So what they observe is you in your Peace, in your unruffled attitude,
and in your confidence in them.
</div> 

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And then you take care of all that&rsquo;s meaningless.
</div> 

That is correct.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay. Thank you.
</div> 

And you won&rsquo;t know what is meaningless until you&rsquo;ve taken
these steps.

Okay.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay, I took some of the things you said last week and kind of twisted
them all around. But it seems to be really working for me. So I was
thinking that what I&rsquo;m doing here is taking the world of form,
these things I&rsquo;m seeing with my eyes, and I&rsquo;m substituting
those things for What&rsquo;s Real. And by thinking that that&rsquo;s
what&rsquo;s real&mdash;this person attacking me, all this
stuff&mdash;I&rsquo;m giving life to it with my mind.
</div> 

Now have I wandered down off the track again?

No. That is quite correct.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay. So &hellip;
</div> 

What you&rsquo;ve given life to is your misperception.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yeah.
</div> 

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
But by believing this hideous person is being an idiot.

Because I&rsquo;ve been stopping some of that and noticing some of these
people are really nice after all. [laughing] So it&rsquo;s really
working for me. And I can see from what you&rsquo;re saying that I
really need to spend more time asking to see What Is Real. I&rsquo;m
kind of stuck. Part of me is really, really glad to just let go, and
know that what I&rsquo;m not seeing What&rsquo;s Real. But then, like
you said, I want to see something really great happen. And sometimes
nothing really happens, and it&rsquo;s like, &ldquo;Oh, well.&rdquo; I
don&rsquo;t know what my question is. Never mind.
</div>

Well, it&rsquo;s a wonderful starting point to say, &ldquo;what
I&rsquo;m seeing isn&rsquo;t Real,&rdquo; because that makes it clear to
you that you don&rsquo;t know What It Is.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Exactly.
</div>

And if you don&rsquo;t know What It Is, you can&rsquo;t help but have a
curiosity begin to form as to What It Is. And so, sooner or later, you
are going to arrive at the point where that curiosity has grown enough
for it to be felt by you, and you&rsquo;ll say, &ldquo;Oh, well okay. I
got a certain amount of relief from existing in a world that I was
seeing that isn&rsquo;t Real.  And I have a certain amount of peace from
no longer reacting to it. But I&rsquo;m sort of in a limbo here.
I&rsquo;m not being terribly disturbed by anything anymore, but
everything is still rather meaningless. And if it isn&rsquo;t Real, if
the way I&rsquo;m seeing it is not True, then what is really going
on?&rdquo; And that&rsquo;s where the invitation for an infilling from a
Source beyond your best judgments occurs, and you are no longer
isolated. And that&rsquo;s where the shift in perception begins to
happen; the miracle. So take it all the way.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yeah. I&rsquo;ll work on that part, &lsquo;cause the other part has been
kind of fun.
</div>

Play with that part. Don&rsquo;t work on it. Have fun with that part.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I&rsquo;m too serious.
</div>

Have fun with both parts. Do them lightly, but do them.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
[laughs] Yes sir. Thank you.
</div>

You are welcome.

Okay, let&rsquo;s &hellip; one more question.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I just want to try and bring this all full circle for me. Fear
originates in my mind, as you said the emphasis being upon your mind
here.
</div>

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
That is where fear originates.
</div> 

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Now, and feeling fearful is never valid, and seeing threat is never
valid.

Now, I usually think I see threat when I presume that my Brother is
acting fearful. So I think I see fear in my Brother and I interpret that
as threat to myself, but the fear cannot be in my Brother because the
fear is within my mind. And by assuming that my Brother is acting
fearfully, instead of acting as a result of his Guidance of the Holy
Spirit, is what makes the invalid image of threat seem real to me?
</div>

No. Your Brother may well be feeling fear. And his behavior may well be
stemming from the fear he is experiencing, because he has his back to
the Altar. Whether or not his behavior based on his fear creates fear in
you, depends on whether you have your back to the Altar.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And not acknowledging that he and I are both just puppets, and there is
no will that opposes God that would be threatening to me?
</div>

What I want everyone to be careful of is theoretical or intellectual
acknowledgements.

You can make that educated acknowledgement about your Brother, but it
will lack the unction of Love that comes from having turned toward the
Altar yourself, and having been infilled with the Father&rsquo;s Love
yourself that constitutes the Gift that you will spontaneously extend to
your Brother, because you can&rsquo;t contain it yourself. And thereby,
you might say, declare that the two of you are incapable of being
governed by fear. You see what I&rsquo;m saying?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
At this point, yes. I think we&rsquo;ll go further when we have a
chance.
</div>

Your employment of fear cannot cause your Brother to behave in an attack
mode. Your Brothers and Sisters are not the puppet of your
misperception.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And there is no will in opposition to God&rsquo;s.
</div> 

That is absolutely correct.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And when I presume threat, I&rsquo;m thinking that there is a will in
opposition to God&rsquo;s that is obviously guiding my Brother in his
threat towards me.
</div> 

And you wouldn&rsquo;t do that if you were not asserting a will of your
own by not being connected to the Altar.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yes. And so again, feeling threat or seeing fear should be utilized as a
reminder that I have turned away from the Altar. And if I utilize the
reminder to turn back to the Altar, the feeling of threat and the fear
will disappear into the vaporous nothingness that it ever was.
</div> 

Yes. And you will look at your Brother who may still be behaving on the
basis of his severe fear, and you will know how to be the presence that
alleviates it.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Respond appropriately because I did turn to the Altar to see what would
be appropriate.
</div> 

Exactly. Exactly.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Thank you.
</div> 

It&rsquo;s very important to understand that no one and no thing in your
world becomes the puppet of your misperceptions. So when someone else is
behaving poorly, you cannot say, &ldquo;Well. It&rsquo;s my fault.
I&rsquo;m perceiving it.&rdquo; No.

When you turn to the Altar and you are warmed by the Glow of Love that
is the Father&rsquo;s Love being the very Fire of You&mdash;because
ultimately the Fire in the Altar, the Light in the Altar, is your
Essential Being&mdash;in turning to that, it doesn&rsquo;t eradicate
your Brother&rsquo;s ignorance. And you will still see a call for Love.
But you will see it as a call for Love, and you will respond with Love.
And the response with Love is what will be transformational, is what
will be the trigger for the miracle.

So your Brothers and Sisters are never acting out your dream. You are
not responsible for your Brother&rsquo;s poor behavior. But your poor
response to his poor behavior is your responsibility to correct. Because
your poor response will confirm his poor response. And it will be the
blind leading the blind and falling into the ditch.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So if I react fearful to my perception of his fearful threat to me, then
what we have just done is created a mutually-agreed-upon definition.
</div> 

Exactly.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I got it.
</div> 

And then you will defend yourselves against each other, and confirm that
mutually-agreed-upon definition even more completely.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yes.
</div> 

You have it. Okay, let&rsquo;s continue. Oh.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay, we&rsquo;ve got I&rsquo;m going to assume that, if we could, we
chose to always face the Altar and we are calling for this infilling
Love and Peace. And we&rsquo;re going through our day, and a Brother
comes up with what we perceive as an attack, and we&rsquo;re hooked.
We&rsquo;re turned from the Altar.  That&rsquo;s the dynamics.
</div> 

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Could we talk &hellip;
</div> 

That&rsquo;s one of the possibilities. Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay. But, you know, providing that we all have a little willingness,
and we all want to do what we&rsquo;re asked to do, and we&rsquo;re
&hellip; okay so we&rsquo;re mind set, body set, you know. We&rsquo;re
going through our day peaceful, and all of a sudden &ldquo;bam!&rdquo;
You know, we&rsquo;re hooked. And we&rsquo;re obviously jerked from the
Altar. Help us at that moment.
</div> 

Remember you jerk yourself away from the Altar.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Well, okay. All right. Yes. Is that &hellip; but we have the
willingness.  We have the intent. We have the knowing. And we&rsquo;re
still pulled. Okay.
</div> 

That&rsquo;s okay.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Or we&rsquo;re hooked or something. But what I&rsquo;m trying to say
&hellip;
</div> 

It is a well established habit.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I understand.
</div> 

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
But most of us are hooked faster than we can count to ten.
</div> 

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay. Before we can realize it, because of our ignorance, or our habit,
or whatever you &hellip;
</div>

Yes [??].

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So, and we don&rsquo;t have time to sit down and listen right at that
moment.  We could take time if we didn&rsquo;t get hooked, you know. So
help us with that moment. That the willingness has not gone away. The
wanting has not gone away. The behavior has not gone away. It&rsquo;s
that we&rsquo;re hooked! So is there some insight you can give to us to
say, &ldquo;Respond I love you.&rdquo; Or respond, you know, is there a
way we can see it another way faster than we are now?
</div>

Only through practice.

It&rsquo;s like doing a meditation and you say your mantra, and
somewhere along the line you start thinking a thought. And at some point
you realize, &ldquo;Oh, I&rsquo;m not saying my mantra.&rdquo; And you
go back to your mantra.  You let the thought go till after your
meditation and you get back to your mantra. The more you meditate, the
less frequently thoughts arise, and when they do arise, the more quickly
you recognize that you&rsquo;ve lost the mantra and return to it.
Through practice, the length of time it takes from when you are suddenly
caught off-guard to the point where you recognize that you are caught
off-guard, that will shorten.

There&rsquo;s no way to get around the fact that the call for a change
in your experience will require you to stop and take a moment, or take a
few moments, to choose for your Peace again. There is some point in the
vigorous interchange where you are actually going to have to stop
participating in it, even if you have to say, &ldquo;Excuse me.
I&rsquo;ve got to go to the lavatory.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
That&rsquo;s the shortening.
</div> 

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
The engagement. We may continue the engagement. We&rsquo;re going to
recognize it sooner. We shouldn&rsquo;t start from the expectation that
we&rsquo;re going to recognize it and therefore it&rsquo;s not going to
happen.
</div> 

Yes. You&rsquo;re going to have to break the pattern somehow. And
another way it might be is that you will say right to the person
you&rsquo;re in this vigorous interchange with, &ldquo;Wait a minute.
I&rsquo;ve lost my perspective here. Just a moment, because I
don&rsquo;t choose to proceed in this fashion because it&rsquo;s not
getting us to the solution.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
[in the background] That&rsquo;ll mess up a good fight. [audience
laughter]
</div> 

Someone said, &ldquo;Ah, that&rsquo;ll mess up a good fight.&rdquo;
[audience laughter]

Ah, yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
[in the background] May I just say one more thing?
</div> 

You will have to &hellip; you will have to. I don&rsquo;t mean &hellip;
you will have to almost physically take the moment to stop what
you&rsquo;re engaged in, to become still enough to make a new choice,
and proceed with what is really going to contribute to resolution.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
[in the background] I was trying to do it before I got hooked, but
getting hooked and then not pursuing it seems a little more valuable.
</div> 

Oh. Say it one more time.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
[with the mic now] Okay. I was trying to not get hooked. But what
you&rsquo;ve said is I&rsquo;m going to get hooked, but I don&rsquo;t
have to maintain that hookedness. That&rsquo;s where the diminished
effort &hellip; the destructive will diminish.
</div> 

That&rsquo;s correct.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay. I think that&rsquo;s very important that &hellip;
</div> 

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
We come as &hellip;
</div> 

If you are used to thinking, which all of you are, when you start
meditating, when you start learning meditation, you find that it&rsquo;s
very hard to not think for any length of time, just because that&rsquo;s
the prevailing habit. But in your persistence in meditating, you arrive
at a point where you have longer and longer periods of
silence&mdash;something you never dreamed was a possible experience.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I think &hellip; yeah. Thank you.
</div> 

In the process of learning, you can&rsquo;t afford to criticize yourself
for thinking. Thinking is going to happen because it&rsquo;s the
prevailing habit.  Getting hooked is going to happen because defense is
the prevailing habit. It&rsquo;s the inevitable habit of being when your
back is turned toward the Altar, and the Kingdom of Heaven looks as
though it has no Source and is all happenstance. And because it&rsquo;s
happenstance, it&rsquo;s not dependable. And because it&rsquo;s not
dependable, it&rsquo;s potentially threatening to your well-being.
Therefore, existence is an ongoing state of defense. You see?

So it&rsquo;s the prevailing habit. And as you begin to break it,
it&rsquo;s going to hook you. So you say, &ldquo;Okay.&rdquo; And then
you take each time you&rsquo;re hooked as the opportunity to choose once
again, instead of just playing it out to the bitter end. And then you
take whatever moments it takes to actually shift gears. And you do it
because you know, and you will know more and more clearly as you do
this, because you know that in not playing out the old habit of defense,
you actually come to resolutions.  It&rsquo;s productive, you might say.
And it&rsquo;s therefore totally reasonable to engage in what is
productive where everyone benefits.

Okay.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Raj, I want to point out something that as I&rsquo;ve experienced. And
that is if I meditate, I have noticed if and after, if an attack comes,
it doesn&rsquo;t penetrate. It&rsquo;s like there&rsquo;s an invisible
shield. But if I hesitate too long and think about what I think
I&rsquo;m perceiving, then, oh, I&rsquo;m hooked. But there is a moment
there where there is a shield.
</div> 

Indeed.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Where it bounces off.
</div> 

It&rsquo;s similar to if you&rsquo;ve had a lack of sleep, your temper
is shorter than when you&rsquo;re well rested. Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So I found that is really vitally important in helping break these
habits.
</div> 

And so, the practice of meditation on a regular basis can enhance your
restedness, your &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
The pause.
</div>

&hellip; your centeredness, so that the shield, as it were, the
decreased inclination to react can be enjoyed more. Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yeah. I think that&rsquo;s really important. A really important point.
Thanks.
</div>

It is a valuable tool. Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Thank you.
</div> 

Taking five or ten minutes to be with your Guide has the same wonderful
benefit.

Okay. Let us continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Everyone experiences fear. Yet it would take very little right-thinking
to realize why fear occurs. Few appreciate the real power of the mind,
and no one remains fully aware of it all the time. However, if you hope
to spare yourself from fear there are some things you must realize, and
realize fully. The mind is very powerful, and never loses its creative
force. It never sleeps. Every instant it is creating. It is hard to
recognize that thought and belief combine into a power surge that can
literally move mountains.
</div> 

Now let&rsquo;s stop there.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The mind is very powerful, and never loses its creative force.
</div>

What I want you not to get hooked on is the word &ldquo;creative,&rdquo;
because creative is so closely aligned with Creation, and all of you,
your egos, love the idea of becoming co-creators with God.

As you read this:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The mind is very powerful, and never loses its creative force.
</div> 

Think of &ldquo;creative&rdquo; in terms of there being a manifestation.
So, you become fearful and your heart begins to race. Ah! Something
physical.  Something measurable. Your Mind has had an effect that is
measurable.  There has been a manifestation of the fear.

 I&rsquo;ll tell you something though. Fear cannot create for its
 defense.  Let&rsquo;s put it this way. The use of fear in your mind for
 the purpose of defense, cannot cause a gun or a knife to manifest on
 the table in front of you for you to protect yourself with. So,
 creativeness, creation, which would be the case if a gun or a knife
 appeared on the table that hadn&rsquo;t been there before, creation of
 that sort is not what this is referring to.

Understand that your Mind is always having an effect. What you&rsquo;re
thinking is always having an effect.

And, when you choose for your Peace and you let it in and you feel it,
your heart beat slows down. Your blood pressure drops. Physically your
body begins to function more efficiently. There is an effect. In that
sense it is creative. We&rsquo;re talking about that there is always a
Manifestation of your Mind.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It appears at first glance that to believe such power about yourself is
arrogant, but that is not the real reason you do not believe it. You
prefer to believe that your thoughts cannot exert real influence because
you are actually afraid of them. This may allay awareness of the guilt,
but at the cost of perceiving the mind as impotent. If you believe that
what you think is ineffectual you may cease to be afraid of it, but you
are hardly likely to respect it. There are no idle thoughts. All
thinking produces form at some level.
</div> 

Indeed. It produces form by affecting form.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you believe that what you think is ineffectual you may cease to be
afraid of it, but you are hardly likely to respect it.
</div> 

I will tell you that one of the reasons that Paul is reluctant to let me
respond to everything, is because he is afraid that if he does,
everything that he will be about will be profoundly meaningful and have
its effects. And there is something in him that does not &hellip; in his
ego perception, that does not want to influence others. He is afraid
that the result of joining with me completely, which in effect is the
same as turning toward the Altar and making commitment to it completely,
is going to result in something that will be&mdash;you see, he
doesn&rsquo;t even want to hear the words&mdash;something that will be
profoundly meaningful. And those are not the words I want to use.

Nevertheless, he is afraid of being of what it would mean to be the
focal point for that kind of meaningfulness. So in effect, he is afraid
of joining with me completely because it would constitute a joining with
all of you completely that would have a profound effect, which would
naturally be an Experience of the Atonement and would therefore be
utterly beneficial for everyone involved. But then, as his ego perceives
it, that would be a matter of being extremely influential. And he is not
totally aware of the devotion which is part of his mutually-agreed-upon
definitions to everyone&rsquo;s right to make their own discoveries for
themselves without help.

And yet, inconsistent as it is, he is willing to do it from time to
time, for an hour and a half every Thursday night, and perhaps six hours
two days in a row once a month, knowing that there is blessing involved.
But I will tell you &hellip; and I am sharing this with you because this
isn&rsquo;t so different from everyone&rsquo;s fear, and one of the
reasons every single one of you choose to remain tiny and never really
know the Truth.  Because discussing what the truth might be and debating
it and rolling all of the possibilities over in your mind is so
invigorating, and saves you from having to be significant yourselves. He
doesn&rsquo;t mind doing it occasionally, but he knows that if he makes
commitment to me, to the Altar, totally, it will be like going from one
cylinder on a 16-cylinder engine to all sixteen cylinders. [audience
amused] So I use him as an example for his elucidation as well as yours.

You really do all use fear as a way of avoiding being the significant
Presence of God that you are, if you would just let God in completely.
And that&rsquo;s what the Atonement is about.

Yes. Microphone.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Just for the benefit of all of us about being at the Altar all the time,
or Paul making commitment, or any of us making commitment, isn&rsquo;t
it a lie though that we would be the focal point? Isn&rsquo;t it that
really the Kingdom would be the focal point? We&rsquo;d just be the
space where it happens.
</div> 

That is correct.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
&lsquo;Cause that&rsquo;s the fear. It&rsquo;s going to be all about me,
or I&rsquo;m going to get it, or I don&rsquo;t know, you know. But
it&rsquo;s personal.
</div> 

That is correct.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And that the devotion itself undoes that whole personal issue.
It&rsquo;s just not where my focus would be anymore.
</div> 

That is correct. Again, it&rsquo;s because the personal sense each of
you has of yourself is the prevailing habit that you will be emerging
from. And so your feelings about your tininess tend to be carried over
in your imagination about the Experience of being Whole. All of you have
your little places you get hooked. The necessity is to persist anyway.
And that Paul does.

And this is where we will end for tonight. Thank you.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Thank you. Thank you very much.
</div>

You are welcome.

[^1]: ACIM 2nd Ed: T2.VI Fear and Conflict
[^2]: Students commenting or asking a question.

