---
title: Jan 23, 2003
ref: Discussion
---

Good evening. And good evening to everyone who is joining us on the
Internet as well.

We have been gathering like this for over six months now. Time flies.
And during that period of time many of you have made comments, asked
questions, and participated. But as some of you have joked, if I
don&rsquo;t stop doing so much talking, we&rsquo;ll never get through
the end of the Course.

So I want to, I wanted to take some time at the beginning tonight to
give all of you an opportunity to, well, for example, let me ask this. I
know that sometimes you&rsquo;ve gone home and thought, &ldquo;I
didn&rsquo;t understand a thing he said.&rdquo; And other times
you&rsquo;ve gone home and felt as though you understand what the Course
is saying better than you ever understood it before. I would like to
give you an opportunity to express questions or comments relative to
what I might call a spiritual disconnect between what you&rsquo;re
hearing about the Course and what the Course is teaching, a spiritual
disconnect between that and the life you are living every day.  Are you
finding it difficult to relate the one to the other? And if so, what are
those areas, so that we can, you can bring them out and everyone can
benefit from not only finding out they are not the only ones thinking
that, but also with the answers.

So, and let me mention also that when we get into a give and take
situation like this, it&rsquo;s easy to forget to ask for the microphone
when you want to butt in and say something. So try to remember to reach
or ask for the mic.

So I will turn the floor over to you. Right there.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Good evening, Raj.[^1]
</div>

Good evening.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Well, in particular last meeting,
the last meeting was particularly meaningful because of the emphasis of
your wanting us to ask you before we make any decision if our will is in
accordance with yours. And I&rsquo;m finding just to be conscious of
that in my daily life, I&rsquo;m finding I&rsquo;m not as conscious of
that as I would like to be. But in going about my everyday affairs, just
being present and observing life as it&rsquo;s unfolding, I don&rsquo;t
feel too much difference other than I&rsquo;m at more and more at peace
and I feel more and more present. But I&rsquo;m trying to understand how
the Course is, how we are to integrate what we&rsquo;re supposed to be
looking for, if that makes any sense, other than being in our peace. I
mean watching for light episodes and things like that, I&rsquo;m still
not too sure about.
</div>

It is a good question.

You&rsquo;ve got to remember what this is all about. It&rsquo;s not
about miracles.  It&rsquo;s not about A Course In Miracles. It&rsquo;s
about joining isn&rsquo;t it, if you stop and think about what
we&rsquo;ve been talking about for six months. It&rsquo;s about breaking
the isolation, so therefore it&rsquo;s about not being alone.  Now
that&rsquo;s the negative way to put it. The positive way to put it is
that it&rsquo;s about union, unity, communion. With whom? [expecting an
answer] With whom?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Well, with each other and you.
</div>

Yes. So, it&rsquo;s about reuniting the Family, isn&rsquo;t it? So what
is the Peace for? What is the point of turning to the Altar so that you
might experience Atonement, if Atonement is an Act of Love? It&rsquo;s
about &hellip; anybody want to yell out the words?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Being present.
</div>

It&rsquo;s about relationship.

So, what do you do? What is the reason for finding your Peace? The
reason is so that once having found it, you might extend it to your
Brother. You might engage in involvement. You see, this is not about
finding your bliss, finding your Peace, and experiencing your
enlightenment, and flashing out of here, as it were. This isn&rsquo;t
about you individually. It&rsquo;s about you breaking the isolation, and
from a place of a clearer experience of What Love Is, becoming involved
with your Brothers and Sisters, expressing that Love.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Then it&rsquo;s about forgetting oneself?
</div>

It&rsquo;s about forgetting the self that you think you are as an
isolated entity. Yes.

But it&rsquo;s about bringing yourself more clearly and more beautifully
into relationship with your Brothers and Sisters. So, at the bottom
line, it&rsquo;s about healing relationships, even pleasant
relationships, happy relationships. Because if the pleasant and happy
relationships are just a result of perfect attunement to mutually
agreed-upon decisions that you have made with each other, you&rsquo;re
still dreaming the dream. That&rsquo;s not involvement.

And so, involvement means bringing Love into those places where your ego
would have said, &ldquo;Love is not deserved. Back out. Be separate.
Stay away from him. Stay away from her. She is trouble. He is
this.&rdquo; So on and so forth. You see?

We have talked about this in varying ways during the past six months. If
you think that the Atonement and Awakening is about you, and you alone,
becoming clear and going Home, you&rsquo;ve missed the point. When you
turn to the Altar and you say &ldquo;help,&rdquo; you say,
&ldquo;Father, show me the Truth here,&rdquo; you are wanting to know
the Truth here so that you might extend it to your Brother in committed
involvement. Why committed? Because if it&rsquo;s not committed
involvement, it&rsquo;s temporary. It&rsquo;s vague. It&rsquo;s
tentative.  Loving your Brother is something you do fully, or
you&rsquo;re not loving your Brother. And so, all of this is about
learning to become still and experience your Peace, and then
experiencing the influx of Love that naturally occurs when you are not
inserting yourself into this, so that you might turn to your Brother and
Sister and love them fully. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Being fully &hellip; let me see if I have this straight &hellip; fully
concerned with every aspect of their life when you are in there present
[in their presence].
</div>

Being fully committed to bringing whatever you can to your relationship
with them for the purpose of blessing them.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Which is, &ldquo;I am here only to be truly helpful.&rdquo;
</div> 

That is a statement that identifies your Function. But saying it is not
a practice of your Function. Do you understand what I mean?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
That&rsquo;s a good point. But it brings my attention back to where it
needs to be when I say it.
</div>

That is correct. &ldquo;I am here only to be truly helpful.&rdquo; And
then you follow it by saying, &ldquo;Father, how can I be truly
helpful?&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yeah. Yes. I found that prayer that you gave in the Course to be
extremely valuable.
</div>

Yes, for pointing you in the right direction.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
In the right direction.
</div>

But not for accomplishing the goal.

Pass the microphone.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
What is the distinction you&rsquo;re making of? If I&rsquo;ve
understood, you&rsquo;ve made it twice, and I&rsquo;m still not clear.
If one is just saying it &hellip;
</div>

You could walk into a friend&rsquo;s home and say to them, &ldquo;I am
here only to be truly helpful.&rdquo; But saying it doesn&rsquo;t
constitute being truly helpful.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
This all has to come from the heart.
</div>

That is very true.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I mean &hellip;
</div>

That is *all* that it&rsquo;s about. Yes.

And caring enough to hang in there with a Brother or a Sister who is in
need, through the thick and thin of their suffering, if I may put it
that way, for the purpose of helping to relieve the suffering, is what
it&rsquo;s about. It is what Mother Theresa did&mdash;wiping the sweat
from the forehead, bathing those who couldn&rsquo;t bathe
themselves&mdash;providing Love that instilled or re-instilled in that
one standing in receipt of the Love, a sense of his or her dignity
again. It&rsquo;s much deeper than the social niceties of friendly talk.
You see?

You want to feel the Father&rsquo;s Love so that you may fulfill your
Function, which is to be the Presence of Love, not just glowing
somewhere in the void with incredible colors of Love, but with Love that
embraces, deeply embraces your Brother and Sister, where there is
involvement. That is the best word for it. Involvement that is presented
with commitment. Another way of putting that is involvement, Love, that
is presented with faith in your Brother&mdash;faith that is felt so that
your Brother knows that it&rsquo;s not a tentative expression of love.
It&rsquo;s not a trial experiment in relating to them with love. You
see?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Well, then that would also include addressing the Christ in them. I mean
really from your heart.
</div>

It would indeed, but you must remember that the one before you who is
perhaps dirty, disheveled, smelly, behaving unpleasantly, not exhibiting
Christ-like qualities, is indeed the Christ with mud all over his face,
or her face. So, it&rsquo;s not to see the Christ and to address the
Christ in them is not, once again, a spiritually disconnected thing
where here&rsquo;s this dirty stranger, but you&rsquo;re going to
address &ldquo;the Christ&rdquo; in them that is somehow above and
beyond, or behind, what you&rsquo;re seeing there. You see what
I&rsquo;m saying?

You must recognize that the one standing in front of you, whether fat or
thin, ugly or beautiful, tall or short, is right then and right there,
the Christ. That&rsquo;s another way of saying you approach another
seeing the worth in them. To say, &ldquo;the Christ in them,&rdquo; is
to take it all the way to the ultimate, so that you are addressing the
Ultimate right there where the one who is unlovely, or behaving in an
unlovely way, is.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Your example of healing when you were here those many years ago, you
looked into the faces of all your brethren, you looked into the eyes and
saw the Christ and remembered God. I know that&rsquo;s the phrase, but
that has very important meaning&mdash;that if we can look into each
other&rsquo;s eyes while we&rsquo;re relating, and remember who
we&rsquo;re relating to, even if we can&rsquo;t see it being acted out,
that&rsquo;s the opportunity for real healing.
</div>

Yes.

The bottom line of what I am trying to express in answer to your
question is that any of you who have spare time, the best way to engage
actively in your spiritual growth is not to sit there and read the
Course, or to sit and think the Truth, but get out there and find a
Brother, and help. You can do social service. You can read for children
in the library. Find a way to be involved, where you have to bring this
Love into play, so that it actually gets addressed to these other
Christs, instead of your sitting in your ivory tower thinking
Christ-like thoughts about the Christ in your Brother that you know must
be there, even though they are not seeing it at the moment.

You get my point. Okay.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
It&rsquo;s hands on.
</div>

It is indeed.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Thank you.

You talk about commitment, but I know that a connection that&rsquo;s
meaningful has to be involuntary. Could you speak a little bit about the
relationship of my commitment and what it is to, and how the Real Love
is going to be involuntary and impersonal? So I&rsquo;m making my
personal commitment and it&rsquo;s coming back as impersonal and
involuntary acts.
</div>

Well, let&rsquo;s put it this way. It is not an involuntary act to turn
toward the Altar. What happens as a result of genuinely turning to the
Altar ends up being involuntary. But you, the Christ That You Are, as
ignorant of your Christhood as you might be, has to arrive at a point of
deciding for turning toward the Altar, of deciding for finding the
better way to be with your brother, or your sister, or your mate.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Not on my own.
</div>

On your own, for your reasons, you will have to arrive at a point where
you are miserable enough to say, &ldquo;there must be a better
way,&rdquo; and turn your very own attention by virtue of your very own
decision to the Altar.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I had a good day and I wasn&rsquo;t miserable. And I was seeing clearly
how you &hellip;
</div>

Just a moment. Did you understand my answer?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I did. And I&rsquo;m going on to another point you made before about you
feel good and you feel strong because of the mutual agreements that we
have.  And I had a good day and I was feeling that and I saw that. And
feeling good and having a good day, I still stopped and turned towards
the Altar. I didn&rsquo;t have to be miserable. I still remembered.
</div>

Indeed. Indeed.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And in some ways I think that that was, I felt like that was more
significant than when I get all down and beat up, and I turn to God. But
&hellip;
</div>

It really doesn&rsquo;t matter what the reason is that you turn as long
as you turn, as long as you decide not to continue to do whatever it is
you are doing, whether it&rsquo;s a happy or unhappy experience, by
yourself.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
My only commitment is to turn to the Altar. That&rsquo;s the only
commitment.
</div>

Yes. The reason for turning to the Altar is to find out what your
Function is and to experience it, so that you might turn to your Brother
and extend it.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
That&rsquo;s &hellip; I mean I can&rsquo;t just go pick anybody. I
can&rsquo;t just run out&hellip; I mean it&rsquo;s got, it&rsquo;s a
particular exact thing.
</div>

You know what? You&rsquo;re going to be thinking something about
everyone you run into. And what you think about them is either going to
come from your memory and habit, or it&rsquo;s going to come from
Insight and Revelation. You are going to be thinking something about
everyone.  Everyone in your experience, whether you see them out of the
corner of the eye, or whether you&rsquo;re looking them straight in the
eye talking to them, you are in relationship with, and you have some
thought about them. The point is, is that thought going to come from
your memory, or is it going to come from Insight because you&rsquo;ve
wanted to reach past your best judgments, and your best theories, and
your mutually agreed upon definitions?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
If you don&rsquo;t make it really simple, it gets really complicated.
</div>

If you don&rsquo;t let it be as simple as it really is, it becomes hell.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Overwhelming.
</div>

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
If I don&rsquo;t think about it, I got it.

Hello, Raj.
</div>

Good evening.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Could you talk to me about how forgiveness might be an aid in us laying
aside our habitual reactions and anxiety, or whatever, anger, fear, so
that we can see What&rsquo;s Real about our Brothers and Sisters?
</div>

Well, very simply you can&rsquo;t be in a forgiving state, you
can&rsquo;t be in a state of forgiveness if you haven&rsquo;t abandoned
the very things that kept unpleasantness going.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So forgiveness is definitely an aid.
</div>

It&rsquo;s an essential integral part.

Why are you turning to the Altar? Because you need help. And you can
think that you&rsquo;re turning to the Altar when you&rsquo;re saying,
&ldquo;God, help me get this bastard. Help me straighten him out.&rdquo;
Or you can turn toward the Altar embodying this attitude, &ldquo;Let the
reign (r-e-i-g-n) &hellip; let the reign of Divine Truth, Life and Love
be established in me and rule out of me all self will.&rdquo;

You see the difference? One way you&rsquo;re turning, because of fear,
to God to help nail the thing you&rsquo;re afraid of. The other one
embodies the willingness to have an entirely new frame of mind, an
entirely new frame of reference, supplied to you. Supplied to
you&mdash;not to the bastard out there. Why? So that you might be able
to turn to the one you thought was a bastard, with new Vision. In other
words, with forgiveness. In other words, having let go of the picture
you were holding of him, and holding him to, and seeing as a call for
justice that it&rsquo;s your job to implement. You see?

You want the frame of mind to change, your frame of mind, so that you
aren&rsquo;t continuing the habit of looking at things from an isolated
place.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I understand what you just told me with my intellect. [laughs]
</div>

I will tell you that you feel it as well.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yes, I do.
</div>

Now I will tell you something else.

As long as you get it with the intellect, it means… and it&rsquo;s
clearer, intellectually it&rsquo;s clearer to you, then you are
experiencing an improved belief. And improved beliefs are beneficial,
because they become part of a new habit of mind. And because they are
improved, they don&rsquo;t continue to reestablish the old level of
stress and distress.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Thank God.
</div>

Indeed.

It&rsquo;s just that an improved belief is not what you&rsquo;re after.
It&rsquo;s beneficial, but it&rsquo;s not the point. The improved belief
simply allows you to be less defended. And it&rsquo;s the absence of
defense, or the lessening of defense, that makes it possible for Insight
to penetrate, because your armor isn&rsquo;t as dense.

Okay.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Thank you, Raj.
</div>

You are welcome.

And I want to keep this on track. We are talking about &hellip; this is
an opportunity for you to discuss things that haven&rsquo;t been
resolved through the things I have shared and the things we have read.

Okay.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay. Actually, [clears throat] excuse me, I want you to just keep doing
exactly what you&rsquo;re doing. It&rsquo;s helping me immensely, no
matter what stupid thing I said about hurrying through the Course.
</div> 

I did not name names, did I?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
But, every time I come I get some little nugget that gets me through the
next week. &lsquo;Cause my life has really accelerated. And I&rsquo;m
amazed at what&rsquo;s happening. And no, I don&rsquo;t want you to
change a thing. I just think it&rsquo;s really, really valuable and
helping. And I can&rsquo;t do this otherwise, because there&rsquo;s just
too much expected of me and my structures don&rsquo;t work anymore.
</div>

And is there anything that we have discussed that hasn&rsquo;t settled
with you, that you&rsquo;re saying, &ldquo;I hear what he&rsquo;s
saying, but I just don&rsquo;t get it&rdquo;?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Things have come up from time to time, but what I am getting out of it
is one thing that my mind holds onto. It reminds me, as you said, to
turn to the Altar. So, no, I don&rsquo;t have a lot of specifics I want
explained.

I, too, want to express gratitude for what you&rsquo;re doing.
It&rsquo;s been very helpful to me. And I&rsquo;ve experienced it in my
life as kind of like photography with a lens, that things come into
focus and they are very clear, and then they blur again because
I&rsquo;ve lost my focus.

And there are times when I don&rsquo;t understand what you&rsquo;re
saying, but if I just wait it out, eventually I kind of absorb it and I
think I understand it. Sometimes only vaguely. But I don&rsquo;t worry
about it anymore. I used to worry like, what on earth? I don&rsquo;t
have a clue even what anybody&rsquo;s questions mean. I don&rsquo;t even
understand those.

But after listening and coming here week after week, I, too, am very,
very grateful to have had this opportunity. And it is making big changes in
my life. And sometimes I don&rsquo;t like them very much, the changes,
but [small laugh] it&rsquo;s okay. I don&rsquo;t really have any
questions. Well, I do kind of. When you say, &ldquo;turn toward the
Altar,&rdquo; I don&rsquo;t fully understand what you mean by that.
</div>

It means the same thing as turn toward your Guide. Extend an inquiry.
Express within yourself a desire to have Clarity, knowing that you are
not asking the question of yourself, but of One Who Is Awake, whether
it&rsquo;s your Guide, or whether it&rsquo;s Me, or whether it&rsquo;s
the Holy Spirit, or whether it&rsquo;s the Father. It is the act of
breaking the isolation.

And, you see, you&rsquo;re not some tiny entity in the middle of an
infinite universe, even though that is the way you have conditioned
yourself to think about it. You, the Essential You, are Consciousness.
Conscious Awareness being Conscious. And the Universe is what
you&rsquo;re conscious of.  Sometimes you&rsquo;re focused on a very
small point in the Universe, but on the other hand, you can look through
a telescope and you can see a lot more of it. It&rsquo;s embraced within
you as Consciousness. So obviously you are not reaching to the Holy
Spirit somewhere out in the universe that is infinitely surrounding
piss-ant little you. You see?

You are turning not to a place, but to a Point of Connection with God, a
Point of Connection with a Brother (or a Sister) Who Is Awake, or the
Holy Spirit&mdash;all of whom see the difference between Reality and the
way you are presently perceiving it. And who are committed to
involvement with you through your every miserable step&mdash;I say
miserable, miserable as it seems to you to be&mdash;constantly ready to tell you
the Truth about the step you are misperceiving and experiencing as
misery. Committed to loving you out of every bit of agony you are
creating for yourself by defining the Kingdom of Heaven as something
other than the Kingdom of Heaven. And not tiring of your bitching about
the agony and the misery. You see?

Now there&rsquo;s a point I want to bring up. To be present with your
Brother, or your Sister, with commitment to being the Presence of Love,
does not mean that you become their doormat. It does not mean that you
sacrifice integrity.

Two of my disciples came upon a lame man, at the gate to a temple, who
begged for alms. Now, they were willing to be present with him and for
him. But they were not willing to do what would confirm his miserable
state of life. And so they, without apology, said, &ldquo;We don&rsquo;t
have any money. We don&rsquo;t have any alms for you. But what we do
have, we&rsquo;ll gladly give you.&rdquo; You see?

You see what was happening there? He didn&rsquo;t respond on the terms
that the beggar was asking them to respond on. He believed that he had
been born lame and that his station in life was to be a beggar, which
was not a profession, if you will, worthy of great negative judgment. It
was a well-accepted station of life, you might say. They were unwilling
to respond to him on those terms, because they would have left him lame.
And that wasn&rsquo;t what they were there for. So they did not respond
on his terms.

They gave him a new way of looking at it. They shared what provided
Insight, sufficient Insight to cause him to choose for being as someone
who could walk and behave in the world just like everyone else, which
changed everything about his life, in the sense that now his ego could
say he had to become responsible and get a job. You see? And the
Inspiration had to be sufficient to get him to abandon everything that
he had become comfortable with; a community that had become comfortable
with him being one of those in that station of life in their community
which they were willing to support. You see?

He had to be inspired enough to be in a new way that required his
community to look at him in a new way. Now somebody in the community had
to be willing to hire him. As long as he was sitting begging, oh, they
didn&rsquo;t have to be that involved, you see. They didn&rsquo;t have
to relate to him like an employer would. And the others in the community
didn&rsquo;t have to relate to him as a fellow employee, and so on. You
see, a lot of minds had to change. And the Inspiration had to be enough
to get him, the lame man, to abandon what not only he, but everyone in the community, had become comfortable with.

Now one could look at the disciples and say they were upsetting the
status quo. They were up-starts. Why didn&rsquo;t they just leave things
as they were? You see?

So, when you turn to the Altar to find out how to be the Presence of
Love and extend it, and if it&rsquo;s going to be truly Love extended,
it&rsquo;s going to be transformational, which is going to require
change. And there may be some complaining about it, and they may not.
But mostly you must understand that being the Presence of Love
doesn&rsquo;t constitute catering to the current ego-sense that your
Brother has of himself.

It&rsquo;s so easy to think that being the Presence of Love means simply
turning the other cheek when your Brother behaves badly. And sometimes
you have to say, &ldquo;No, Brother. You are behaving badly when you ask
me for alms, because you are not honoring the Christ That You Are. And I
am not going to join you in dishonoring the Christ That You Are.
I&rsquo;m going to join you by saying stop doing this. Stop behaving
this way. Stop conceiving of yourself this way because here&rsquo;s What
You Are. You are the Immaculate Expression of God at this very instant.
You&rsquo;re just believing otherwise, and your poor belief is governing
your experience. And it doesn&rsquo;t &hellip; your experience
doesn&rsquo;t have to be governed this way. So let&rsquo;s talk about a
new belief. And maybe even let&rsquo;s go beyond a new belief and talk
the Truth, so that you might not ever behave poorly like this again by
demeaning the Immaculate Christ That You Are, by presenting yourself as
a poor, lame beggar.&rdquo;

You see what I&rsquo;m saying? Do you understand what I&rsquo;m saying?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yes, and I want &hellip;
</div>

Whoops. Microphone.

Before you say this, this is part of what the involvement is that
I&rsquo;m talking about.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yes.
</div>

Taken to greater depth.

Continue.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And I can see where this is supposed to go.
</div>

You&rsquo;re doing better than I am. [audience laughter]

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Well, I mean &hellip; [laughs] Forget &hellip; I didn&rsquo;t mean.

Let me just share what just occurred to me as you were saying that. That
the scripture that says that you said, &ldquo;And the things that I did,
you can do, and even greater things.&rdquo;&mdash;meaning healing the
sick, raising the dead, and doing all these things&mdash;and it cannot
begin until we start, from what I&rsquo;m hearing you say, making this
kind of commitment.
</div>

I&rsquo;m glad that, that it is making sense to you. And I&rsquo;m glad
you put it into words, so that it can make sense to everyone else who is
hearing this. Yes. Exactly.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Because this has got to begin.
</div> 

This is what it&rsquo;s about.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yes. Okay. Thank you.
</div>

This is what the Atonement is about. Again, the Atonement isn&rsquo;t
about any one of you individually somehow getting the point, making it,
and going Home. You go Home right through the middle of your Brother
that you&rsquo;ve made a commitment to. Can I put it any simpler than
that?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
[in the background] You can&rsquo;t go Home alone, right?
</div>

Someone said, &ldquo;You can&rsquo;t go Home alone.&rdquo; That is
correct. [pause] That is correct.

Was there a question over here?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Raj, you mentioned the other week that every thought that we have, has
an effect at some level.
</div> 

Indeed.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
The example that came to my mind is on Martin Luther King&rsquo;s
birthday, I was teaching a yoga class. And on the way to yoga class, I
was taking my friend with me, and I said to my friend, &ldquo;I
don&rsquo;t expect many people are going to come today. But that&rsquo;s
okay. If no one comes, you and I will just do yoga together.&rdquo; And
my friend said to me, &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t &hellip; don&rsquo;t say those
things, because if you say things like that, then that&rsquo;s what
you&rsquo;ll get.&rdquo; So, in other words, by me saying it, it will
actually have an effect of no one coming to the yoga class.
</div>

There are no private thoughts.

Continue.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay. So, what I&rsquo;m saying, at what level does thinking versus
speaking have an effect? For instance&hellip;
</div>

Oh, I will tell you something.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yes.
</div>

It&rsquo;s what you mean, and not what you say, that isn&rsquo;t
private.

When you say, &ldquo;You&rsquo;re wonderful&rdquo; and you are thinking
or feeling, &ldquo;I can&rsquo;t stand this person,&rdquo; your words
are meaningless. Your &hellip; the meaning and the feeling behind the
insincere chitchat is what is communicated, and is what has impact, is
what finds manifestation.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
The other thing that comes up for me around this is that when I hear
things like this, it makes me think, well, then, if my very words have
some kind of magical quality to them that will make things manifest. You
see what I mean? In other words, if you carry it to that degree. So, in
other words, the difference is, say for instance, I think a certain way,
then that&rsquo;s what I&rsquo;ll see. Okay.
</div>

Indeed.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
But yet, that &hellip; if I think a certain way, will that actually have
real effect in the scheme of what other people are doing?
</div>

It depends entirely upon how sensitive the other person is. And as well
as how mature they are in terms of their spiritual growth, in terms of
their clarity about their Real Integrity.

The more &hellip; I will put it this way. The less defended you are
against the Experience of your Divine Integrity, the more you will
experience it. At the same time, because in order to experience it you
have broken the isolation and are less defended, you will find yourself
feeling meanings that other people are experiencing relative to you, or
relative to their life, but because they are in your immediate vicinity,
you are able to be aware of it. The reason you are able to be aware of
it, is because you have the capacity to bring the blessing of your
connectedness with the Altar to the situation.

If you are engaged with the voice for fear in your mind and in your
life, you can count on it that you are contributing to the density of
the dream and the so-called strength of the teacher for the voice for
fear. In that sense, everyone is contributing to the ongoingness of the
dream. You are either contributing to it, or you&rsquo;re not.
There&rsquo;s nothing else for you to be doing.

So it&rsquo;s very important for you to understand what I&rsquo;m going
to call the power of your thoughts. Because the power of your thoughts
cause you to see the world in a particular biased way, that causes you
to have certain feelings which are not based on What&rsquo;s Really
Going On, and those feelings become the &hellip; for lack of better
words, become the engine for a movement of fear that others who are
equally defended feel, because it has become essential to them to feel
these inclinations in order to survive in a hostile world&mdash;a
hostile world which they have created for themselves by having decided
to look at the Kingdom of Heaven by themselves. (Just a moment.)
It&rsquo;s all part of the mutually-agreed-upon definitions. It&rsquo;s
part of the way the dream has been very consciously and precisely set
up.

Does that answer your question?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yes, to some extent. But the other thing that I spin on is contrived
thinking. And what I mean by that is saying, okay &hellip; or wishful
thinking. In other words, well, I&rsquo;m just going to keep thinking
this, and that&rsquo;ll make that happen. Okay. And then you&rsquo;ve
got the other end of saying, well, gosh, I had that thought and I
didn&rsquo;t mean to have that thought, but I had it, and that&rsquo;s
what happened out there. So that&rsquo;s my fault that that happened. Or
I contributed to it because I had that thought.

So you&rsquo;ve got two things. The person who is contriving their
thoughts to get what they want. And then the other person who is afraid
that their thoughts are having these ramifications that they don&rsquo;t
mean them to have. You see what I mean?
</div>

Yes.

The first, where you are contriving a thought, is actually the modus
operandi of the ego. And all of you are doing it. And that&rsquo;s why
you are suffering.

The one who has a thought and sees something happen and feels guilty,
has more conscience, and is in a better spot. Because you are asking a
question about someone who is contriving a thought on purpose, and you
are placing a value judgment on that, and absolutely ignoring the fact
that, for the most part, that&rsquo;s the way you go through your day as
well, except that you aren&rsquo;t consciously contriving
it&mdash;you&rsquo;re just doing it.  Okay? So, the one that recognizes
a connection between their poor beliefs, their poor thoughts, and what
happens in the world, is experiencing greater clarity, which leads to
what would be called greater social conscious, or greater social
consciousness, so that they actually can arrive at a point of
disciplining their thoughts, training their mind.

The Course is a course in mind-training so that they are not thinking
idle thoughts, careless thoughts, unloving thoughts. Why? Because to the
degree that you are disciplining your thinking and employing your
thinking for the purpose of expressing your best beliefs, or for the
purpose of convincing yourself of the need to ask for help and break the
isolation, you are lessening the density of the dream and priming
yourself for a breakthrough, where you actually experience a sudden shift
of consciousness, a miracle, that puts you in an entirely new place, so
that you become an even more significant contributor to the Awakening of
mankind.

Does that answer your question?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yes. I guess it also goes back to the old story of the little kid who
gets mad at his parent, and says, &ldquo;Oh, I wish you were
dead,&rdquo; and then something happens to the parent and the kid grows
up with this complex, thinking that they wished it, and therefore it
happened.

And I believe there is something in the Course that talks about a safety
mechanism, so that when we are not co-creating with the Father, those
things don&rsquo;t happen. Is this &hellip; am I on with this?
</div>

Yes. In this instant, the child is believing that his thought was
powerful enough to actually override the integrity of his father, or
whoever the parent was, when that is impossible. But it&rsquo;s not
impossible for the parent to feel the anger, or the negativity, that the
child was feeling. It&rsquo;s the parent&rsquo;s responsibility to
decide how they are going to respond to that feeling, either recognizing
it as a call for Love, or as Love Itself, and then responding, to the
best of their ability, from having turned to the Altar to know what to
do.

So, you are all capable of communicating silently or audibly to your
friends, your neighbors, your enemies, everyone, a feeling that you are
feeling. And that can be impactful. It will register. How that person
deals with it is their responsibility.

But hey, let&rsquo;s stop giving your Brothers trouble to have to decide
how to deal with appropriately. That&rsquo;s part of the involvement.
Part of the involvement means don&rsquo;t let parts of your day be taken
up with idle, negative, judgmental opinions and thoughts about your
Brothers or Sisters, your acquaintances or your enemies. That&rsquo;s
not your function.  And I promise you that as long as you find that a
valuable activity to engage in, you are absolutely blocking your ability
to feel the Presence of the Father in you, illuminating you more clearly
to you, so that you become a transformational presence with your
Brothers and Sisters. It keeps you from turning to the Altar. And until
you turn to the Altar and reach beyond your ego-centered mental
activities, you are still going to experience isolation and all of the
hell that accompanies it.

So, we can be a little sloppy here for just a moment by saying that you
could decide not to engage in this kind of idle mental activity relative
to your fellowman, because it&rsquo;s going to keep you from
experiencing What You Divinely Are. It will keep you from experiencing
Joy, and Fullness, and Wholeness, and freedom from misery. Okay? And so
you can say, &ldquo;Okay, I&rsquo;m going to do this for myself.
I&rsquo;m going to turn to the Altar for me.&rdquo; You can do that.
That&rsquo;s a reasonable unreasonable reason for turning toward the
Altar. Your reason doesn&rsquo;t have to be perfect.

But you&rsquo;re turning toward the Altar because you don&rsquo;t want
to be miserable and you don&rsquo;t want to miss your Function. Right?
And you don&rsquo;t know what your Function is so you&rsquo;re going to
have to inquire. And what you&rsquo;re going to learn is that a Gift is
given to you that you can&rsquo;t hold in, and you&rsquo;re going to
extend it to your Brother. And you&rsquo;re going to involuntarily
fulfill your Function. And you&rsquo;re going to watch it happen. And
you are going to discover that although you had had a selfish reason for
turning toward the Altar, it couldn&rsquo;t stop the way things work
from happening that uncovered to you that the Love that you are filled
with is a Love that can&rsquo;t be withheld from your Brother. And you
were tricked into caring for your Brother before yourself involuntarily.
And your Brother was blessed. And you felt the fulfillment of it. And
now you know as a matter of fact that the only place your Joy can come
from is from the Joy you&rsquo;ve given your Brother first. So I say we
can be sloppy.

The simple fact is that you cannot experience the Atonement privately.
Something else has to be more important to you than you, that you wish
to extend Love to and bless. That&rsquo;s the fact. But you can decide
to turn to the Altar for selfish reasons and still be blessed.

You see what I&rsquo;m saying?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
That&rsquo;s where the energy is, isn&rsquo;t it?
Sorry. Is that &hellip; that&rsquo;s where we can
experience the energy.
</div>

The Movement. Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
The Movement of All That Is.
</div>

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And with our relationship.
</div>

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
The Sonship relationship.
</div>

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So to speak.
</div>

Exactly.

Now you can turn toward the Altar for a selfish reason and get the
blessing just the way the lame man, the beggar, turned to his blessing
and said, &ldquo;Bless me in the terms of what blessing means to me
right now, which is a few shekels that I can manage to have enough food
to survive to be here tomorrow to ask for more.&rdquo; You see? Wrong
question. Asking for the wrong thing. Asking for what wouldn&rsquo;t
answer the problem. But nevertheless, he was reaching outside himself,
and the answer could come that didn&rsquo;t knock him off his
feet&mdash;knocked him on his feet. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yes.
</div>

Okay. Is there a &ldquo;yes, but&rdquo;?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Well, there is.
</div>

Of course, there is.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I wasn&rsquo;t going to get into this, but you asked. [small laugh]

Another regarding one&rsquo;s thoughts, there have
been a lot of &hellip; and I&rsquo;ll bring it to something that&rsquo;s
relevant, but it can be applied far and wide. Regarding the peace
movement, peace march, the war-hawks, that&rsquo;s going on right now, I
was having a discussion with someone and I said, &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t
know what anything is for.&rdquo; I don&rsquo;t. I know I don&rsquo;t. I
don&rsquo;t know if a war should happen, or if a war shouldn&rsquo;t
happen. What I do know is that I turn to Altar and say, &ldquo;Father,
Thy Will be done in this situation.&rdquo; And I can&rsquo;t worry about
peace out there until I feel peace in here, in my heart. So that&rsquo;s
how I&rsquo;ve been approaching it.
</div>

Then Michael.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yes.
</div>

Find out what you do feel and get off the fence.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Well, I&rsquo;m definitely not on the fence.
</div> 

Now I am meaning here that it is copout. And you all have to stop this.
You have to stop saying, &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t know what anything
means,&rdquo; and leave everything meaningless. You are here for a
reason. You have a voice. You have a voice to say something. And if you
are not saying anything, it is because you have not found what you feel.
And you haven&rsquo;t found what you feel because it&rsquo;s easier not
to get involved.

I&rsquo;m not just picking on you. But this is something you need to
become clear on. And I can talk to you this way because you understand
me.

If you don&rsquo;t know what to say, then you have chosen to be
unconscious for a while. And you are not fulfilling your Function in
doing that. It is not a spiritual thing to be in your Peace in the
middle of a situation that calls for your voice to be heard, for your
clarity to be expressed and counted, whether it is &ldquo;yea&rdquo; or
&ldquo;nay.&rdquo; You are neglecting to vote. Do you all hear me?
Don&rsquo;t neglect to vote.

Don&rsquo;t neglect to raise your voice on the pretext, the spiritual
pretext that like the first lesson in the Course says, &ldquo;Nothing
that I see means anything.&rdquo; You can&rsquo;t get stuck there with
&ldquo;nothing I see means anything,&rdquo; and therefore I don&rsquo;t
have to participate, or, I don&rsquo;t even know whether there&rsquo;s a
real way for me to participate. You count. Your presence counts.

Now, the thing is, how &hellip; what is going to be the basis for
letting your vote be heard? Is it going to be memory? Is it going to be
habit?  Is it going to be the mutually-agreed-upon definitions that seem
to govern the whole picture? Or are you going to say, &ldquo;I
don&rsquo;t know what this means, but something meaningful is going on
here, and I need to know what it is, and how I feel about it, so that I
can register my vote&rdquo;?

Paul is registering his vote when he lets me speak. And what I am saying
is his vote. The Course. Helen didn&rsquo;t just sit there and say,
&ldquo;There must be a better way. I don&rsquo;t know what it is,&rdquo;
and then just go on her unhappy way. She registered her vote. You see?
She got involved and said something that is making a difference in the
world today, whether it&rsquo;s totally obvious to everyone or not.

Now, stop sitting on the fence saying, &ldquo;Nothing I see means
anything&rdquo; or &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t know what anything means,&rdquo;
and then leave it there. Stop It! Be hot or cold. Be no or yes.
Don&rsquo;t be &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t know.&rdquo; If you don&rsquo;t
know, find out, and cast your vote, and let it be from that place in
you, your heart, where you can genuinely say &ldquo;yea&rdquo; or
&ldquo;nay&rdquo; from your heart.

Is anyone having any trouble understanding what I have just said?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
No. Let me tell you the trouble I&rsquo;m having. Okay. I don&rsquo;t
know if this guy, okay, is just, you know, just a big whirlwind
that&rsquo;s just going to dissipate, or if he&rsquo;s the next Adolph
Hitler. I don&rsquo;t know. I don&rsquo;t know. I don&rsquo;t know if
somebody should go in there and kick ass. Okay. Or naturally I feel in
my heart that war is horrible. It&rsquo;s a horrible thing. Okay. So
does that mean that we shouldn&rsquo;t have had World War II?  You see
what I&rsquo;m getting at? Then everything would have been different had
we not done that.
</div>

But you&rsquo;re avoiding what I said. You&rsquo;re getting off out
there.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
No. What I&rsquo;m saying is, is I truly am not sure.
</div>

So, what did I say?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Turn to the Altar and ask.
</div>

Find out! Find out what you feel, whether it makes rational sense to
you, or not, based on all of the kind of thinking you just expressed
about Hitler, or this guy, and so on. Find out what you feel. Find out
what the answer is for you and cast your vote. And if you have to march,
march. If you have to voice something to the grocery clerk, or a
stranger, because the opportunity is there and you&rsquo;re moved to
express it, voice it. Cast your vote.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
How does &hellip; and clarity comes from just being quiet, and going
inside, and feeling into the situation?
</div>

That is the only way it comes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And so, when one feels torn in two directions, that is a call to do
that?
</div>

Exactly. It means that you are stuck in your head reasoning between two
incompatible ideas. We&rsquo;re not talking about ideas, or theories, or
historical perspectives, that allow you to make a better intellectual
decision today. We&rsquo;re talking about getting involved, not standing
on the sideline objectively where you can say, &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t
know. I really don&rsquo;t know what this means.&rdquo; You see? Find
out what it means and cast your vote. Not just about this issue though.
Find out what everything means and cast your vote.

That&rsquo;s really what we&rsquo;ve been talking about since the first
question.  Involvement with commitment to bless. And you bless by being
in touch with what is appropriate for you and acting on it. That is an
Act of Love, whether it&rsquo;s saying, &ldquo;No, I will not give you
silver and gold. I don&rsquo;t have any money. I will not give you what
you&rsquo;re asking for, but I will give you what I have.&rdquo;

What is this all about? It&rsquo;s about no longer sitting in a place
where you never get around to the Act of Love that is the Atonement,
because you are stuck in a fairy tale safety place called, &ldquo;I
don&rsquo;t know what anything means. And as long as I stay where I
don&rsquo;t know what anything means, I will be safe.&rdquo;
You&rsquo;re saying, &ldquo;As long as I don&rsquo;t know the Truth, I
will be safe. So I&rsquo;m not going to ask what does this mean because
then I&rsquo;m going to have to put up or shut up. I&rsquo;m going have
to vote, or not vote and know that I&rsquo;m not voting and feel
irresponsible, truly irresponsible.&rdquo; Because you didn&rsquo;t
choose to glorify God. You chose to keep your mouth shut and not give
voice to that which would transform and bless everyone.

Involvement with commitment, with you coming from the tips of your toes
because you took time to find out what the tips of your toes had to say.
And you find out what the tips of your toes have to say when you turn
toward the Altar and say &ldquo;help&rdquo; and let the response in.
Why? Not so that you can sit there with your little nugget of clear
perception, but so that that can be extended because you care enough to
cast your vote.

Now, in a way tonight, we have discussed what&rsquo;s in section VII
[Cause and Effect], but we&rsquo;ve talked about it in really relevant
ways.

The key point tonight is that what you call life is a call for
involvement from your heart, from the Altar within you, which is where
the Light of God is being the Light that you are. It&rsquo;s about not
withholding the Gift of What You Divinely Are from your Brothers and
Sisters, your friends and your enemies. Atonement simply isn&rsquo;t a
private affair. Again, it&rsquo;s an Act of Love. And an Act of Love
cannot be an isolated expression or experience.

I&rsquo;m speaking very, very clearly tonight, because the clearer you
are about it, the more disciplined your mind can be. Because
there&rsquo;s less confusion. There&rsquo;s less of this airy-fairy,
metaphysical, spiritual nonsense that can imagine that because nothing
means anything, or because you don&rsquo;t know what anything really
means, and maybe what is meaningless can really be meaningful. You
think that this attitude, this frame of mind, is like a safety net.
It&rsquo;s more like a padded room in an insane asylum. And if you can
be clear on this, so that there is less confusion, then, you&rsquo;ll
find it easier to dare to ask for what is the Truth, so that you can
find out what the Truth is, so that it might spontaneously find
expression through you and your voice gets counted.  And the Heavenly
Host Who Are Awake will throw up an infinite cheer in favor of and in
support of your having the courage to cast your vote, and not be on the
fence, and not hide in a nebulous place, thinking that somehow
it&rsquo;s a dependable spiritual hideout where you don&rsquo;t have to
cast your vote.

I love you.

Even you, Michael. [audience laughter]

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Well, then I guess I have to love you, too. [laughter]
</div>

We will call it a night.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Thank you, Raj. Thank you very much.
</div>

[^1]: Students commenting or asking a question.

