---
title: Feb 13, 2003
ref: Discussion
---

Good Evening. Before we begin, I just want to remind all of you of
something. It&rsquo;s easy to forget when times seem to be stressful, or
situations on the home front seem to be stressful, and you get up in the
morning and you are instantly on guard, or prepared for what may come,
you&rsquo;re inclined, because of the spiritual path you&rsquo;re on, to
do your best to look at everything with a balanced eye and to cope with
everything to the best of your ability, forgetting that any anxiety
you&rsquo;re feeling is a choice. And what will help you to remember
that it&rsquo;s a choice rather than a given circumstance is that if you
will choose to become still and meditate, you will find yourself moving
into a Place of Peace. And having moved into the Place of Peace, you
say, &ldquo;Wow! I forgot that my peace is independent of any situation
or circumstance.&rdquo; It&rsquo;s so easy to forget it because
circumstances seem to grab your attention before you think to choose for
your peace.

Once having chosen for your peace, you are in a position to look at the
circumstances with innocent eyes, with an ability to respond to the
circumstances with a &ldquo;Yes&rdquo; or a &ldquo;No&rdquo; from a
centered place of real balance. And at this time, it&rsquo;s essential
to remember this, so that you make the choice for your peace before you
look at and attempt to deal with the situations or circumstances.

I just wanted to remind you of that. It is so easy to access your peace,
but it&rsquo;s easier to forget to.

<div markdown="1" class="well person"> So we access our peace.
We&rsquo;re in this centered place and we&rsquo;re looking at this
problem that concerns us, from this Place of Peace are there times when
war is justified or even necessary?[^1]
</div>

There are times when the word &ldquo;No&rdquo; must be used and
embodied, used and actualized, used and expressed into manifestation. It
doesn&rsquo;t become a war unless somebody objects to the assertion of
the meaning of the word &ldquo;No.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
When we wake up and we choose for our peace, at what point does,
I&rsquo;m going to say the past, prior to asking for our peace, prior to
waking up, the circumstances of &ldquo;No&rdquo; being said, the
circumstances of being in relationship during a difficult time, will the
claiming of peace, choosing for peace change the circumstances as we had
left them? Meaning that someone&rsquo;s not understanding the word
&ldquo;No,&rdquo; or someone &hellip; there is dispute. What is the
change from the state of peace that changes the circumstance as it was
left prior to claiming your peace the night before, the day before, the
months before?

So we wake up, we choose for peace, but the circumstances may not have
changed, but the way we see it may have changed. Could you clarify what
will be different? If I&rsquo;m being clear.
</div> 

I&rsquo;m going to ask you to try to rephrase the question. It is
confusing to Paul and it, the confusion, has his attention.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Making it very simple. We go to bed in either &hellip; in some level of
dispute, whether it&rsquo;s internationally, or in conflict with self,
or with relationship one-on-one. We wake up in the morning, maybe with
chatter of and the fear of waking up to this same difficult situation.
As you&rsquo;ve said, we choose then for peace, and walk into the
circumstance again.  What has changed? What will be different? Or is it
just the way we see it? Will we have changed our minds? Will we &hellip;
</div>

Well, simply, the thing that will have changed from the night before is
that where the night before, you were not in your peace, now in the
morning after having arisen, you have chosen for your peace and you are
in it. That&rsquo;s the fundamental change. Now comes &ldquo;the
work,&rdquo; if you will, because in your peace you are primed for
experiencing balance in your perspective. What causes fear is the
busyness of your imagination coupled with your thinking. In the silence
of peace, your imagination and your thinking are not introducing
distraction and confusion.

In the silence of your peace, your capacity to know what needs to be
known is increased. And, literally, you are able to see what is called
for, which means what you are called upon to be in the circumstance. If
you are called to say &ldquo;No,&rdquo; if you are called to withdraw
support for unintelligent, unloving, unprincipled, unkind behavior, then
you must get off the fence and cast your vote. Embody your part to play.
When you do that, it will call for agreement, but it may get
disagreement. If it gets disagreement, you cannot afford to let this
have any effect on the vote you have cast. You cannot let it dissuade
you from standing on the side of humanity as opposed to
inhumanity&mdash;globally, nationally, or in your one-on-one
relationships.

Depending upon the intensity of the disagreement you receive, certain
responses will be appropriate. If the disagreement is violent, if the
disagreement constitutes an intent to harm, then your saying
&ldquo;No&rdquo; must be firm enough, must be felt by you strongly
enough from the tips of your toes to let it be an absolute
&ldquo;No&rdquo; that does not allow for negotiation, but calls for
obedience. That does not call for discussion but requires obedience,
because the harmful behavior cannot be justified any further. It cannot
be allowed any further. The power of &ldquo;No&rdquo; is what
we&rsquo;re talking about here.

If you say &ldquo;No&rdquo; and it doesn&rsquo;t come from the tips of
your toes, if you are not feeling it fully, if commitment to it, if
identification with it is not total, the egos of those around you will
recognize it and know that you are open for negotiation, and they will
not respect the &ldquo;No&rdquo; and but will engage you in negotiation
while continuing to behave inappropriately. You must learn to say
&ldquo;No&rdquo; and &ldquo;Yes&rdquo; with your Whole Being. Anything
less and you are playing a game. And those you say &ldquo;Yes&rdquo; or
&ldquo;No&rdquo; to weakly (w-e-a-k-l-y) will know that you have opened
the door for argument, negotiation, discussion, anything but resolve
because your &ldquo;Yes&rdquo; and your &ldquo;No&rdquo; didn&rsquo;t
call for resolve.

You all get yourselves into ongoing, strenuous, negotiative&mdash;if
that is a word&mdash;relationships by being neither hot nor cold, being
neither &ldquo;Yes&rdquo; or &ldquo;No.&rdquo;

And you know what? Most of you find that to be an interesting and
vigorous form of existing, as though the vigor of the negotiation is
what constitutes the fullness of life, as though you&rsquo;re really
doing something, when all along you&rsquo;re avoiding doing something,
and ultimately suffering the results of being neither hot nor cold.

It is dangerous to your experience of Divine Life, of Life full of the
Integrity of God, when you use your spirituality as a way of doing
nothing. It is very dangerous to say, &ldquo;Oh, it&rsquo;s all a
perception anyway.  Therefore, there&rsquo;s no reason for me to make
any requirement on my Brother or my Sister to be humane, to be
principled, to be loving, because it&rsquo;s all a matter of
perception.&rdquo;

You know what? The Course is a course in mind-training. What do you
think mind-training is? It&rsquo;s learning to use discipline with and
in your mind. Using discipline means you say &ldquo;No&rdquo; and you
say &ldquo;Yes&rdquo; to certain things. And I&rsquo;ve made it clear
that without that discipline, you are unavailable to me to help in the
process of awakening.

Discipline: Learning when to say &ldquo;Yes&rdquo; and when to say
&ldquo;No.&rdquo; Learning what to say &ldquo;Yes&rdquo; to and what to
say &ldquo;No&rdquo; to.

If you have a horse that has been trained, or a dog like a seeing-eye
dog that has been trained, these animals have learned how to not do what
is irrelevant to their function. And so, in an emergency the guide dog
doesn&rsquo;t go wild in the excitement of the commotion. It says
&ldquo;No&rdquo; to its inclination to react and says &ldquo;Yes&rdquo;
to giving its full attention to its owner to see that its owner is
gotten out of the situation quickly and safely.

Do not let irrational metaphysical or spiritual logic cause you to
become lukewarm and immobilize you when action is called for. How
foolish you will feel if after the situation that called for your
clarity is over, you discover that if you hadn&rsquo;t moved into this
safety zone of being non-committal, you participated in a result that
could have been avoided&mdash;a negative result. Now if you are going to
have to let your mind be trained to distinguish between essential and
non-essential things in order to wake up, then grasp the transfer value
of it so that you do not remain mute, immobile, immobilized and
ineffective, where the call had been for you to be hot or cold, to be
the Presence of God that says &ldquo;No&rdquo; to that which is unlike
God and to say &ldquo;Yes&rdquo; to that which supports fundamental
quality of life, fundamental humanity, fundamental&mdash;I&rsquo;ll use
the catch phrase&mdash;human rights, and honors them enough to bring
them into fuller view.

If your mind is going to need to be trained, the minds of others are
going to need to be trained. And someone is going to have to have enough
guts to provide the training, which means standing in the face of
objection to your &ldquo;No&rdquo; and saying &ldquo;Yes&rdquo; and here
is why &hellip; &ldquo;Yes&rdquo; and the reason is &hellip; and
continuing to provide the clarifying and transformational perspective as
I do over and over and over again until the one objecting to it grasps
it, until the light bulb goes on.

But let&rsquo;s not be spiritually &hellip; no, let us not be spiritual
imbeciles and not restrain the willful expression of hate and harm by
anyone, whether it&rsquo;s an abusive husband, or an abusive wife, or an
abusive child, or an abusive parent, or an abusive head of state. You
say &ldquo;No&rdquo; and obedience must come into play to the extent
that acts of hate, acts of harm, and the development of better and
better ways to harm others is obediently stopped without negotiation,
discussion, or argument.

There is no intelligence and there is no Love in allowing harm to be
engaged in. If the individual is not in a frame of mind to learn
something new and insists on continuing to act hatefully, you stop the
actions in whatever way works. Once you have their attention and they
are distracted from engaging in acts of harm, reason with them, reason
with them, reason with them from your peace and re-educate. Re-educate
by presenting intelligence in such a wonderfully desirable way that
it&rsquo;s hard to object to.

Now, you might say, &ldquo;Well, that would mean I&rsquo;m acting as
their friend.&rdquo; Yes, that&rsquo;s true. You act as their friend by
forcibly stopping acts of harm. In other words, going completely against
their will, which would make you seem not to be a friend because
you&rsquo;re not considering all the reasons and justifications
they&rsquo;re using to back up their behavior.

But, once having stopped it, you do not treat them as though they are
hateful; you treat them as though they are one who is capable of
recognizing the value of humaneness, and you educate them over, and
over, and over, and over again; not as a form of brainwashing, but as an
act of Love coming from Love, so that the light bulbs can come on in
their mind and they finally say, &ldquo;Oh. I see. I&rsquo;m sorry. And
I won&rsquo;t ever do it again.&rdquo; And transformation occurs because
the full spectrum of Love has been provided&mdash;the &ldquo;No&rdquo;
and the &ldquo;Yes.&rdquo;

But, again, don&rsquo;t be immobilized into a lukewarm space of
noncommittal un-involvement. Because you are here for a reason.
It&rsquo;s to glorify God which means to embody God. Not just sort of
list in the bliss of wonderful thoughts that never get brought out into
manifestation and embodied in the world with such love by you, the one
embodying it, that others cannot help to find it of interest and express
their curiosity, and want to know more about it, and thereby be changed
by it.

Does that answer your question?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yes, and if I may, at what point does the perceived attack become an
issue of &hellip; when I feel attacked, it is my issue, but when I need
to take a stand against an attack or an aggression or a type of
behavior, at what point will I know that it is not an illusion&mdash;it
is an attack to which I must say &ldquo;No&rdquo;?
</div>

The moment you get into your peace. The next morning when you get up and
you make the choice for your peace, you will know that it&rsquo;s not an
attack. It&rsquo;s a call for Love awkwardly and inappropriately
embodied. You will recognize that the inappropriate and awkward
embodiment of Love being called for needs to be contained, but not
because it&rsquo;s attack, but because that&rsquo;s what Love does when
an inappropriate call for Love is sent out.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So the inappropriate call for Love, if not seen clearly &hellip;
</div> 

By?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
By me, or one who is perceiving it &hellip;
</div>

As a call for Love.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
As a call for Love, will perceive it as an attack.
</div> 

That is correct.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And that is why attacks are our own issues because we&rsquo;re not able
to see it as a call for Love.
</div> 

And the reason you cannot see it as a call for Love is because you are
not in your peace, and when you are not in your peace, you yourself are
in an ongoing state of defense. And so you will see behavior as an
attack.

Yes, even good behavior, apparently good behavior, will be seen as
something to be suspicious of. What&rsquo;s behind their niceness? What
are they really wanting? There is a lack of trust about friendly
behavior as well.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
When we are not in our peace.
</div>

That is correct. *Which is all the time*. You were not here last week, but
you are always in fear until you turn back to the Altar and give your
commitment there, because the moment you have chosen not to see with the
Father, and you have chosen to see on your own, you are inevitably and
unalterably and unequivocally in a state of fear, and therefore, a
constant readiness for defense.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Thank you.
</div>

You are welcome.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I&rsquo;m wondering about illness. I just found out that a very close
friend is also undergoing cancer problems. It seems to me a lot of what
we&rsquo;re seeing relates to illness.
</div> 

Absolutely. Absolutely.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Then this, in my mind, to say &ldquo;No&rdquo; to this, &ldquo;You are
an idea of God. You are absolutely perfect, and this is a call for Love,
not fear.&rdquo;
</div> 

That is correct.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Because I know my friend would like to have been here tonight. This is
her second bout with cancer, so, so scary. Thank you.
</div> 

It is scary until you are able to feel your peace so that the true
perspective may be available to you felt to the tips of your toes, so
that you might see the absurdity of the suggestion that you can be
subject to something called cancer that somehow is real and can pose a
real threat. In your peace and with the Father&rsquo;s Perspective, you
will see that it is just a suggestion; the same sort as any hypnotist
who says, &ldquo;You have an apple stuck to your nose.&rdquo;

It is a suggestion. And when it is seen as a suggestion, it then becomes
easy to say &ldquo;No&rdquo; to your inclination to react in fear and
abandon your peace and your capacity to be the Presence of Love that
dissolves any tiny bit of manifestation that suggests that the threat is
real.

You see, the healing doesn&rsquo;t come, and the resolution in a
conflict with another doesn&rsquo;t come until the meaning of the word
&ldquo;No&rdquo; is embodied fully. Not as a defense, but as a
realization that the seeming substance of the harmful or hateful
behavior is unreal, and doesn&rsquo;t require strength, but does require
you to be unequivocally pure in your expression of the meaning of
&ldquo;No&rdquo; so that there are no weak spots for the ego to engage.

When you say &ldquo;No&rdquo; and mean it from the tips of your toes, it
doesn&rsquo;t come out as an act of aggression. In other words, it
doesn&rsquo;t come out as an act of opposition. It just comes out, even
when spoken softly and with peace, as an undeniable declaration of total
inner unity, even humanly speaking.

But you know what? When you encounter someone who says &ldquo;No&rdquo;
with complete integrity, you know that you&rsquo;re in touch with
someone who&rsquo;s in touch with the universe. You know that
you&rsquo;re in touch with someone who&rsquo;s grounded in something
greater than some personal strength.

So the &ldquo;No&rdquo; you say from your peace is not a counter-attack.
This is important to understand. It&rsquo;s an expression of pure
integrity that is undeniable.

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
May I add a clarification? When a call for Love is perceived, I
can&rsquo;t see &hellip;
</div> 

Is recognized.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Is recognized.
</div> 

I say that because &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yes.
</div>

&hellip; it is attack that is perceived.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yes.
</div> 

The Truth you can recognize.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
When would I be saying &ldquo;No&rdquo; or &ldquo;Yes&rdquo; to the call
for Love as opposed to our war situation which is, &ldquo;No, you
can&rsquo;t do these things or we will enforce our
&lsquo;No&rsquo;&rdquo;?

Taking it from the global or the international to the individual,
one-on-one, what would you be saying &ldquo;No&rdquo; to if it is
recognized as a call for Love? I&rsquo;m having trouble &hellip;
</div> 

The moment you recognize it as a call for Love, you will respond.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
But as a &ldquo;Yes&rdquo; or &ldquo;No.&rdquo;
</div> 

You will respond with what addresses the need and sometimes it will be a
&ldquo;No.&rdquo;

No, I will not participate in a game of &hellip; I will not engage in a
pissing contest. I will not engage in argument. I will not engage in
negotiating what degree of hurt is going to be acceptable. I will not
negotiate whether I deserve to be hurt. I will not participate, you see,
but here&rsquo;s what I will do.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Thank you.
</div> 

If you will cease to act in hateful or harmful ways, I will sit down
with you, and we can discuss without argument how to be together,
whether we want to be together, in a friendly manner.

You are welcome.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Swear not by the mountain. Swear not by the temple. Swear not by the
Course in Miracles. Let your yays be yays, and your nays be nays. Cut
the crap. Put your ass on the line. The discipline and the commitment
bring me to this Place of Peace, and then my &ldquo;Yes&rdquo; and my
&ldquo;No&rdquo; is the Atonement.
</div> 

Exactly. Next week we will switch places. [audience laughter]

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
You know, you&rsquo;re just so good at that, lovingly expressing it so
that it invites you in. You&rsquo;re just really good at that.
</div> 

And you are all being invited to do the same thing. Circumstances make
the invitation a little more pointed. [slight audience laughter]
Circumstances in the world are calling for you to be the Presence of
Love; not in nice flowery thoughts, but in practical expression,
practical embodiment. There is NO healing without the world being
transformed whether you want to call the world an illusion or not.

*Transformation and healing is NOT a head trip*. Transformation and
healing is going to be evidenced in the ever-improving ways you relate
with your Brother, and in the embodiment of your intent to leave no
stone unturned in the process of uncovering joy in existing and in
existing with each other, and where all of you are agents, you might
say, for the contribution of the uncovering of the Kingdom of Heaven
right where you thought &ldquo;the world&rdquo; was.

I&rsquo;ve said before, and it&rsquo;s important to know, until you can
say &ldquo;No,&rdquo; you can&rsquo;t really say &ldquo;Yes.&rdquo;
Until you find your authority to say &ldquo;No,&rdquo; your
&ldquo;Yes&rdquo; means nothing. When you can&rsquo;t say
&ldquo;No,&rdquo; you become the subject of terrorism, the subject of
dictatorship, because all you&rsquo;re allowed to do is to say
&ldquo;Yes.&rdquo; And so your &ldquo;Yes&rdquo; makes you a
mealy-mouthed wimp&mdash;a nothing. It causes you to behave as though
you are not the Presence of God embodied, because you&rsquo;re not
glorifying God. You are covering up the fact that you exist for a
reason, a divine reason, an utterly valuable reason, a reason that reeks
with dignity, a reason that has as its purpose the glorification of all
that is ultimately meaningful and good.

Until you can say &ldquo;No,&rdquo; your &ldquo;Yes&rdquo; is
meaningless because there&rsquo;s no integrity to it. And there&rsquo;s
no integrity to it because you don&rsquo;t feel your very own Presence.
One who can only say &ldquo;Yes&rdquo; is never expressing himself or
herself, but is always expressing the will of the one who gave you the
direction or the order to which you said &ldquo;Yes.&rdquo; Do you get
that? Not being able to say &ldquo;No&rdquo; is a sure way to keep
yourself in the dream, and it will constitute an absolute block to
waking up, because it means that you haven&rsquo;t arrived at a point of
using any self-discipline yet.

Of course, one who doesn&rsquo;t have a right to say &ldquo;No&rdquo;
obviously doesn&rsquo;t have enough substance to bring about a
decisiveness, or enough decisiveness, to make a commitment to
&ldquo;Yes&rdquo; or &ldquo;No.&rdquo; When you don&rsquo;t know you
have the right to say &ldquo;No,&rdquo; and you never use the word and
you never mean the word, you are confirming, confirming, confirming,
confirming the dream.

So I say it&rsquo;s time to get some guts. And I say it&rsquo;s time to
get some guts to announce to you that you have guts, that you have what
it takes to become decisive in determining the difference between Truth
and what is untrue, between a call for Love and what is not a call for
Love.

Again it is very dangerous to say, &ldquo;It&rsquo;s all a matter of
opinion, or it&rsquo;s all a matter of perception.&rdquo;

Of course, if you&rsquo;re going to engage your guts and become
decisive, you&rsquo;re obviously going to have gotten off a fence that
you were on, and you&rsquo;re going to be involved. You&rsquo;re going
to let your voice be heard.  Not so that you can express power, but so
that in doing it you disengage from the very elements that keep the
dream going, that keep everyone sleeping. Sleeping is an indecisive
place, isn&rsquo;t it? You don&rsquo;t accomplish anything in your
sleep. You don&rsquo;t get anything done. Nothing becomes embodied.
Sleeping is being zoned out.

*A Course in Miracles* is not about being zoned out. Waking up is not
about being zoned out. It&rsquo;s about being more conscious. Conscious
of more than your limited ego perceptions have been including. More than
your habit of relying on memory and your past concepts have allowed you
to experience. So, it&rsquo;s time to put your shoulder to the wheel,
get your ass in gear. It&rsquo;s time to stop playing metaphysical ego
games, or spiritual ego games, and get down to the business of your
connection with the Father. Why? So that you can do the scary thing of
discovering What Is Real and What Is True so that you might stand behind
it with every fiber of your being and embody it so that it shows up in
the world.

Now, this can be a most enjoyable experience. It can be done at any
time. And the enjoyableness of the expansiveness will be yours. But
you&rsquo;re at a point where there&rsquo;s a very strong call for Love
going on in the world. It looks like an expression of hate that needs to
be dealt with, and so you find yourself uncomfortable. Well, I will
happily use this situation as an opportunity to light a fire under your
derrières so that you might go ahead and do this enjoyable thing.
I&rsquo;m about finished talking about this subject and so I want to
bring in the fact that what we&rsquo;re talking about is supposed to be
an enjoyable thing. But, you have a current stress going on in the world
that is a good enough reason for giving the focus and the discipline to
your mind, so that you do get off the fence and you do find out What Is
True, and you do dare to embody it. There&rsquo;s a need for it to be
embodied, but remember what I&rsquo;m inviting you to engage in is
simply what has been your function all along. And if the stressful
situation weren&rsquo;t here, we would be talking about it as though it
were a totally enjoyable thing.

So, remember, using discipline, training your mind so that you can
distinguish between Truth and illusion, so that you can withdraw your
support from illusion and lend yourself fully and committedly to What Is
The Truth so that you are not in the limbo of indecision and confusion,
or the apparent safety of non-commitment. You lay the groundwork for the
very transformation that you&rsquo;re all looking for and that you all
find encouragement to believe in when you study the Course.

The Course is all about embodying God. Aren&rsquo;t you glad you have a
wonderful nudge in your experience?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I don&rsquo;t know if it&rsquo;s appropriate right now so I&rsquo;m
asking if it is or not, to share a story that keeps coming to me about a
time we were traveling and there was a call to say &ldquo;No&rdquo;
suddenly. So I&rsquo;m asking Raj if it&rsquo;s appropriate to share it.
It&rsquo;s about the night we were on our way traveling and we had
gotten off the ferry at midnight in Seattle.
</div> 

Indeed.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
It just kept repeating itself in my mind tonight. And it was such a
powerful moment and it was certainly unpremeditated. We had left late
and we were going down to the airport to stay overnight, and we had
caught maybe the midnight ferry into Seattle. And as we got off the
ferry, one of us, whoever was driving, had pulled onto the sidewalk to
look both ways before we got onto the main road, and as we turned to the
left, there had suddenly come a car that had jumped the middle divider
and had landed on the sidewalk and was traveling toward our door at
about 40 mph, and all of a sudden there was nothing to do. We were like
frozen in the moment and suddenly this welled up in me, the windows were
up, no one could hear us, but what welled up in me all of sudden was a
&ldquo;NO!&rdquo; And the moment that that came out, the car jumped off
the sidewalk and went &hellip; well, it didn&rsquo;t exactly go
straight. It went way over in the other direction, but it altered its
course immediately although there was no physical contact or evidence
that could have possibly changed the situation. But it was a sudden
inner conviction that this was not to be and it did alter it in a split
second.
</div> 

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So that was one of the miracles that I&rsquo;ve encountered when you
just know that you have to say &ldquo;No.&rdquo;
</div> 

Yes. The &ldquo;No&rdquo; was not an expression of fear like &ldquo;Oh,
no!&rdquo; It was a declaration of fact. That&rsquo;s the simplest way
it can be put. And when you say &ldquo;No&rdquo; from your peace, from
the tips of your toes, you are stating a fact, not a topic for
negotiation.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
When such decisiveness is stated as a fact and not a topic for
negotiation, it sounds like it could divide an awful lot of houses where
two people are saying &ldquo;No&rdquo; to different things and each
coming from their integrity. My son and I disagree about this current
stressful situation. We each feel strongly and have gotten off the fence
to say &ldquo;No,&rdquo; but we disagree as to which is the
out-of-control and harmful government.
</div> 

I understand. Mind you, we&rsquo;re not talking about coming from
personal integrity. We&rsquo;re not talking about clear expressions of
each one&rsquo;s best-expressed ego-orientation. What I&rsquo;m talking
about is coming from your peace and giving expression to the Truth that
you find revealed to you there.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So the &ldquo;No&rdquo; you are speaking of would change both
governments?
</div> 

The &ldquo;No&rdquo; I am speaking of is not actually being addressed to
governments. The &ldquo;No&rdquo; you will find yourself expressing is
an unwillingness, an absolute unwillingness to join in substantiating
the illusion.

The &ldquo;No&rdquo; isn&rsquo;t against governments. The
&ldquo;No&rdquo; isn&rsquo;t against individuals.  The &ldquo;No&rdquo;
is a statement of refusal to participate and support and thereby
substantiate inhumanity, anything less than love, which transforms human
relationships and therefore constitutes a blessing for all concerned.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
But it doesn&rsquo;t seem that simple from this perspective because,
within our view from the world, the harm and the harmfulness can be done
by Saddam Hussein and what he&rsquo;s doing to his people, and how their
human rights are being oppressed, if we believe what our media and
government leaders tell us. Some would say that is the harm that needs
to be stopped. And others will say, &ldquo;Well, no. The harm is when we
send in our airplanes to bomb those people there living in Iraq.
That&rsquo;s where the harm is.&rdquo;

And now maybe there&rsquo;s a path in between those two that works out,
but it isn&rsquo;t looking that way in the world situation. It&rsquo;s
almost like we&rsquo;re picking between which is the greater harm, or
the lesser harm.
</div>

There are times when that is the case in the human experience.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Well, that was my original question. Thank you.
</div> 

You are welcome.

If a seriously disturbed man is holding a family hostage at gunpoint and
threatening harm to them, and very likely to harm them because he is so
upset, it is appropriate to bring the threat of harm to a stop
immediately. If you have a sharpshooter who can disable the man without
killing him, you would use the sharpshooter. If you do not have a
sharpshooter, but someone that has a clear shot that&rsquo;s likely to
kill the man, you use that man, that man&rsquo;s gun and his capability.
But you do what is necessary to bring the state of harm to an abrupt
end. If your police force had an empath who could connect with the
deranged fellow with the gun and cause him to forget to want to harm,
then you would use that person and no harm would come to anyone.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I think that&rsquo;s a TV show.

I think I&rsquo;ve lost my perspective.
</div> 

My point is this: You do whatever works and you do it with the least
amount of harm possible, but you don&rsquo;t neglect to act and bring
the state of harm to a halt.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So make the hard decisions.
</div> 

Get off the fence. Cast your vote. Not as an ego, not expressing your
best opinion, but after having become still, after having turned toward
the Altar, after having heard the clearest Word of God you can hear and
that you can feel, and then embodying it, embodying it, embodying it.

If a person steps out in the street and a truck is bearing down on them
that they don&rsquo;t see, and you&rsquo;re standing right on the curb,
do you stand there and say, &ldquo;Oh. Wait a minute now. This is all an
illusion. The truck is Spirit. The man is Spirit. No harm can come to
him.&rdquo;? Or do you run out and grab him or push him and yourself out
of the path of the oncoming truck, and do what will cause no harm to
occur?

If touching a hot iron to your arm will burn you, you don&rsquo;t do it.
You don&rsquo;t do it until you have arrived at a point in your
spiritual growth where touching it to you arm will not hurt you. So in
the process of your being ever more perfect in your being the
transformational Presence of Love, you always remain practical. And you
do not neglect from acting practically, while at the same time you hold
yourself open for the increasing transformation of your mind that allows
you to be practical with less and less harm, if I may put it that way,
being involved in the process.

I&rsquo;ve talked about this before but I will finish up tonight by
pointing out that there has to be a balance between radical idealism and
practical realism. And you do not become so radically ideal that you
abandon being practically real. You explore and open yourself up
expansively into radical idealism while requiring that radical idealism
to find expression in a new and ever-improving practical realism. And
nothing, nothing will inhibit waking up more than thinking you can move
into radical idealism and that&rsquo;s all there is to it, because you
will think you are getting somewhere when you&rsquo;re getting nowhere.
And you will not be a transformational agent for change in the world
because you won&rsquo;t be engaging in the act&mdash; that&rsquo;s the
key word &ldquo;act&rdquo;&mdash;of Love which constitutes the
Atonement. The Atonement is not a thought of Love. It&rsquo;s an act of
Love. Nothing like the human experience to bring the Truth to life and
to make a difficult book easier to understand.

Well, no one can say we indulged in airy-fairy talk tonight. And yet all
of it has been absolutely relevant to the Course and the undisturbable
connection between God and His Creation which at the moment you&rsquo;re
calling just the world and the universe and a bunch of egos running
around like chickens with their head cut off.

I love you all, but I&rsquo;ll say &ldquo;No&rdquo; to you. And you can
Love every Brother on this planet, but you&rsquo;ve got to be able to
say &ldquo;No.&rdquo; And avoiding saying &ldquo;No&rdquo; will just
keep the distress going longer. Enough said. Okay.

[^1]: Students commenting or asking a question.

