---
title: Feb 27, 2003
ref: T2.VII Cause and Effect
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone as well who is joining us on the
internet.

The things we have been speaking about over the last few weeks in many
ways have caused some polarization to occur rather than peace. And it’s
important for this not to continue.

I’ll ask a question. What is a miracle?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
A sudden shift of perception.[^1]
</div> 

And when you say the sudden shift of perception is from peace to fear?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
No.
</div> 

Good. A miracle is a shift of perception in which mutually-agreed-upon
definitions, or beliefs, have dissolved leaving in their place the
Experience of Peace, the Experience of Love, and the capacity to extend
love that nurtures and promotes further sudden shifts of perception.

We’ve been talking about correction. Since you are all emerging from an
ego frame of reference, it’s very easy for the word “correction” to be
misunderstood. You have what are called “houses of correction,” don’t
you? These are places where punishment is brought to bear upon those who
were found guilty. But can that be what correction means as we’re
talking about it? The recognition that there’s a need for correction is
interpreted by the ego, the voice for fear, as a call for punishment.
Justice, in other words. But the Voice for Truth expresses the call for
correction, and it’s calling for healing. It’s calling for a sudden
shift of perception.

So please understand that when we’re talking about correction, we’re
talking about that which promotes healing. That which promotes healing
is that which is an act in the world of embodying that which in every
way promotes transformation, regeneration and redemption, whether it’s
physical, whether it’s mental, emotional, whether it’s between
individuals or between nations. And so even if the acts that embody what
will promote healing are firm, unyielding, unequivocal, they are done in
a way that promotes healing more than it promotes harm.

And an example I have used in the past is a surgeon who has to perform
surgery. He causes injury by making an incision, but he knows how to do
that with the least amount of injury or detriment to his patient. And he
does it because that is what will save that person’s life. Healing is
the motive and the method embodies it. Healing is the motive and the
method embodies it. He says “No” to cancer. He says (the physician) “No”
to peritonitis, if there’s been a burst appendix. And he does whatever
is necessary to bring the body back into harmony and peace with itself.

So when you say “No,” it is not a means of meting out punishment. It is
not a means of attaining justice. It’s only real meaning can be to
promote healing through means that promote healing.

That is all I wanted to say to begin with, and we will go directly into
the Text here.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Nothing and everything cannot coexist. To believe in one is to deny the
other. Fear is really nothing and love is everything. Whenever light
enters darkness, the darkness is abolished. What you believe is true for
you. In this sense the separation has occurred, and to deny it is merely
to use denial inappropriately.[^2]
</div> 

Okay. We’re going to stop right there. A very important point.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What you believe is true for you.
</div> 

I don’t think it can be any more clearly stated that what covers up the
Truth from you is what you believe. Your beliefs, whether good or bad,
preoccupy your attention, coloring What Is Actually There so that you
don’t see it. A sudden shift of perception is when your attentiveness to
your belief breaks down suddenly and What Is Really Present has a chance
of registering with you so that you see truly. And in that true seeing,
you are not only able, you’re more than happy to release the belief that
you were committed to, in order to continue to experience the joy of
seeing What Is True.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
However, to concentrate on error is only a further error. The initial
corrective procedure is to recognize temporarily that there is a
problem, but only as an indication that immediate correction is needed. 
</div> 

There’s our word “correction” again. Yes.

Now it’s very important you’re having a consistent opportunity not to
hone in on the problem. A problem is constantly being presented to you
as being a problem. And you must all remember that that is simply a call
for you to recognize that, yes, there is a problem, and that it calls
for correction, so that you can shift your attention to listening for
what will correct the problem.

And you know what? You won’t really be open, genuinely open to
experience the influx of Light and Clarity, the influx of what will
correct the problem, if your motive isn’t Love. And that means that you
must be willing to look at your so-called enemy—the one, let us say, who
you have to temporarily or momentarily recognize as the problem—and
embrace him with love. Now this doesn’t mean that you become
lovey-dovey. It means that you care enough about that Christ, that One
who is the Son of God, you care enough about him to want to know what
will promote a sudden shift of perception, what will promote his
willingness to abandon his justification for being a problem. If you
don’t remember that, then you will listen with a bias. You will listen
for an influx of the Father’s Will with a bias, and the bias will be
that you will be expecting to hear something that will bring about
justice. In other words, punishment. And it’s essential not to become
sidetracked that way, because healing is truly needed here.

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
What if it’s a problem that seems to be beyond my purview to do anything
about? There are many problems in the world that aren’t my problem.
There are people dying of AIDS in Africa and I feel bad for them, but
that’s not my problem. There’s nothing I can do about that. There are
people dying of hunger all over the world, but that’s not my problem. If
I see a hungry man, I’ll be sure to feed him. But &hellip; but what am I to
do with these problems I’m inundated with that aren’t my problem, that
seem to be beyond my scope and my power as the one of six billion I am
here in the world?
</div> 

Good question.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Can I offer something that suddenly came to me?
</div> 

You may indeed

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Well if we give our mind to the Holy Spirit, the Holy Spirit directs our
attention to what needs healing. And also I noticed in our work that
only those who I can bless, and only those who have a blessing for me,
show up in my experience. There is great order to my life when I do a
fundamental acknowledgment, and that is to let the Holy Spirit govern
each moment of my day.
</div> 

Indeed. We spoke last week about the fact that minds are joined and
there are no private thoughts, and therefore when you do listen and you
are guided, the very fact of listening, regardless of what you hear,
makes it easier for everyone else to listen as well. The very act of
turning toward the Altar, the very fact of inquiring of the Holy Spirit,
or the Father, or Me, constitutes an act that every one is a participant
in, whether they realize it or not. And your simple act of turning to
the Father with inquiry, with curiosity, to know what will bring about
healing, blesses absolutely everyone. It’s the leaven that leavens the
whole lump.

Now notice that I didn’t suggest that you join with all of your starving
brothers in your mind, and try from your mind to their mind to bless
them. It’s the act of not attempting to do anything from your separate
sense of self, it’s the act of joining with One Who Is Awake, or with
the Father, that constitutes the Real blessing, and blesses absolutely
all of the Brotherhood, not just those on your planet. That’s why it’s
the leaven that leavens the whole lump. And then you do what you are led
to do, whether it’s something local in your immediate vicinity, or
whether it’s something on a larger scale.

But you know what? Your sense of community in your own mind has to
include more than the township you live in. Your sense of community
truly needs to be global. If your sense of community is global where you
are consciously wanting healing, the sudden shift of perception that
constitutes the miracle for all of your Brothers everywhere, you will
find that this will color or affect every aspect of your day. Your
behavior will be different.

And I might say that the way you move your little finger when you’re not
even thinking about your little finger will have a global or a universal
affect, much like the commercial that used to be on your TV’s where a
butterfly in Japan has an affect in an entirely different part of your
globe just by flapping its wings. But even more than that, as citizens
of your world, as members of a global Brotherhood, and your conscious
caring that every one of you experience the very best will begin to be
reflected in the governments that represent you.

I’m addressing anyone from any country living under any government. When
there is an intent to bless, when there is an intent to heal, when there
is an intent to experience the happy dream, those who represent you will
begin to represent that. But you know what? You have to express it. You
have to embody it in words. You have to become, as I have said,
involved.

What I am intending to do here is to get the ball rolling, set this into
motion with each of you, so that you might care enough not to get caught
up in any current sense of justice that might be &hellip; that you might be
invited to participate in. But rather, for you to become consciously
involved in healing, which absolutely does require saying “No” to that
which doesn’t represent the happy dream, to that which doesn’t represent
harmony, to that which promotes harm.

What you might be given to do might feel quite inconsequential, not in
the least bit earthshaking. But the little amount of force that the
flapping of a butterfly wing involves does indeed have its affect
globally. All I’m trying to do is to help you bring your attention to
where it needs to be in order to promote the sudden shifts of
consciousness.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Thank you
</div> 

You are welcome. Let us continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This establishes a state of mind in which the Atonement can be accepted
without delay. 
</div> 

What does the temporary recognition that there’s a problem &hellip; read
that again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The initial corrective procedure is to recognize temporarily that there
is a problem, but only as an indication that immediate correction is
needed. This establishes a state of mind in which the Atonement can be
accepted without delay. It should be emphasized, however, that
ultimately no compromise is possible between everything and nothing.
Time is &hellip; 
</div> 

Now that means that there can be no compromise between your beliefs and
What Is Real. There can be no compromise between your
mutually-agreed-upon definitions about what a thing is and What It
Actually Is. They won’t merge. They won’t blend. They won’t meld. Your
belief will ultimately simply be abandoned.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Time is essentially a device by which all compromise in this respect can
be given up. 
</div> 

Ah! Time is not there for the resolution of a problem. It’s there for
the purpose of compromise being given up. Compromise being given up
means coming to the point where you give full commitment, full
commitment to one thing, The Truth, in which there is no suggestion or
insinuation of anything to compromise about.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It only seems to be abolished by degrees, because time itself involves
intervals that do not exist. Miscreation made this necessary as a
corrective device. The statement “For God so loved the world that He
gave His only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in Him should not
perish but have everlasting life” needs only one slight correction to be
meaningful in this context; “He gave it to His only begotten Son.” 

&hellip;”He gave it to His only begotten Son.” 
</div>

What did he give? He gave &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
The world.
</div> 

And what is the world? It’s more than just the world. It’s the Kingdom
of Heaven. God has given you All That He Is. God has given you Creation.
Because He (What He Is) is fully embodied in you as you. And isn’t it
interesting that your believing that and making commitment to it brings
you everlasting life? As long as you are having some belief other than
that, some belief of your own creation, you cause yourself to become
blinded to your Everlasting Life, your Eternality, your
Indestructibility, your Permanence, just because you’ve chosen to honor
a belief of your own making, and you’ve joined with someone else in it
in a mutually-agreed-upon definition.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Can I ask or just expand on this one point? I think it’s interesting
here. It says, “Atonement can be accepted without delay,” and
Atonement’s an Act of Love. Could you just comment on accepting what
would apparently be a task? Is that &hellip; am I seeing that right? The
Atonement would be a task, an Act of Love. It’s like accept your job.
</div> 

Well, the Atonement is an Act of Love. That’s a good way of putting it.
I would say that’s your Function. That is your Purpose. And you could
say, yes, that is your job. Yes, I accept it. That’s utter wisdom, yes,
and simple wisdom, but one that you feel doesn’t have the priority that
defending yourself in a conflicted world does.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
No, unfortunately you’re right.

Raj, you said earlier, that our big problem is our mutually-agreed-upon
definitions. And it just flashed on me that in order to dissolve those,
we must see everything that is going on as a call for love.
</div> 

And therefore an opportunity for you to be at your post, on the job,
being the Presence of Love.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Right. Which would eliminate all the definitions of what we think we are
seeing if we choose only to see whatever we think is happening as a call
for love. That will eliminate all the definitions, wouldn’t it?
</div> 

It would. Yes. All of your definitions have been put into place as a
means of defense. And it’s impossible to love and defend yourself
simultaneously.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
It would shift the whole impetus.
</div> 

Absolutely. And each one of you that does it, contributes to the total
shift immeasurably if it’s done with commitment.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I want to be very clear on this.
</div> 

Indeed.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Because we have encyclopedia full of definitions. [small chuckle]
</div> 

That is correct. That’s why I talk about being willing to look at
everything with innocent eyes, meaning innocent of any distortions
caused by preexisting mindsets, mutually-agreed-upon definitions,
cherished beliefs. There must be a willingness to look at everything
with curiosity because there is more there than what you are seeing, and
the more that’s there is literally the Presence of God visible. And why
not be curious to see that?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
This would certainly eliminate fear.
</div> 

Of course. But you won’t find the fear eliminated until you dare to
love. And you know what? We need more people being willing to dare to
love, to risk the chance that becoming defenseless will reveal to them
their invulnerability. But your conditioning says, “Lay down your
defenses and you will be vulnerable.” But you can’t love until you are
willing to lay down your defenses.

We can put it another way because that sounds as though it would be a
test that you might fail at. You can just dare to love and not worry
about having to lay down your defenses. You can have an object of your
affection, or you can have a principle that’s of value to you in your
mind that says: “What I want for the world is healing. What I want for
my Brother is the happy dream. And I’m asking the Father to reveal to me
what I can do to contribute to my Brother’s experience of a happy dream.
What can I do to contribute to the sudden shift of perception that
constitutes the miracle?” And you can leave the abandonment of
self-defense on the back burner without even giving any thought to it.
And your impulse to care and to embody caring can move you right past
any reluctance to releasing your defenses that you would experience if
you were sitting there saying, “How am I going to release my defenses?”
You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Something that helped me years ago come to this point that you’re
emphasizing is I took the attitude that, “There are no strangers quote
‘out there,’ there’s only family or friends that I haven’t met,” which
really helped me to eliminate the anxiety of encounter.
</div> 

Indeed

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And I think if we could kind of adopt that type of attitude, we’d be
halfway there at least as far as worrying about what they are going to
think or not think, or things like that.
</div> 

That is another way of saying what I have been saying this evening. Yes.
Exactly.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
It’s served me very well so far.
</div> 

And if there is someone who is afraid of you, you will care enough to
find ways to reduce their fear, by being involved with them even though
they are afraid of you, and finding ongoing ways to provide them with
evidence that they don’t need to be afraid of you.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
That’s a very good point.
</div> 

Behave like a friend and provide the evidence that you’re a friend that
proves that they don’t need to be afraid of you. But that means being
involved with someone who is afraid of you and behaving as though they
have reason to be afraid of you.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
This would be recognizing their call for love &hellip;
</div> 

That is correct

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
&hellip; instead of interpreting them as attack.
</div> 

That is correct. Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It should especially be noted that God has only one Son. If all His
creations are His Sons, every one must be an integral part of the whole
Sonship. The Sonship in its oneness transcends the sum of its parts.
However, this is obscured as long as any of its parts is missing. That
is why the conflict cannot ultimately be resolved until all the parts of
the Sonship have returned.
</div> 
 
And, and of course, my being with you in this way is to provide an
invitation to you to return, to provide you with an embodied expression
of my love and of the love of the whole Brotherhood, of all of the
Brotherhood who are awake, so that you might know that there is a place
to come to where your welcome is already prepared for you, so that you
might feel justified in turning toward Home. In effect I am reducing
your fear of coming Home. I am reducing your fear of me. I am being with
you the way you need to be with those who are afraid of you, those who
feel that you are their enemy.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Only then can the meaning of wholeness in the true sense be understood.
Any part of the Sonship can believe in error or incompleteness if he so
chooses. However, if he does so, he is believing in the existence of
nothingness. The correction of this error is the Atonement. 
</div> 

There you go.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Any part of the Sonship can believe in error or incompleteness &hellip;
</div> 

It’s not a sin. To believe in incompleteness is what has been called
“the fall.” But there it is right there.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Any part of the Sonship can believe in error or incompleteness if he so
chooses. 
</div> 

It’s not a mortal sin. It’s not something that causes you to be subject
to ultimate punishment if you come back Home. You see? You can do it.
You can do it if you want to. What it means though is that you’re
believing in the existence of nothingness. That’s why it’s not a sin and
that’s is why you can’t be punished. You can’t be punished for believing
something that isn’t true, and thinking that something is happening that
isn’t happening, or thinking you have done something that you haven’t
done. The correction of this error is the Atonement—the sudden shift of
perception that causes you to be able to engage in an Act of Love toward
your Brother and embody God in the world, thus causing the world to
become a truer representation of creation that’s called the happy dream.

My goodness we’ve gotten through two paragraphs. [audience laughter]

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Has any Brother forgotten twice? Has any Brother, you know, come back
Home and left again?
</div> 

Only you. I’m joking. [audience laughter] No.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Once is enough.
</div> 

Once provides all the learning that is needed.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I have already briefly spoken about readiness, but some additional
points might be helpful here. Readiness is only the prerequisite for
accomplishment. 
</div> 

It’s only the prerequisite for accomplishment. Yes

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The two should not be confused. As soon as a state of readiness occurs,
there is usually some degree of desire to accomplish, but it is by no
means necessarily undivided. 
</div> 

And there’s the key. The moment it’s undivided, the accomplishment is
done. The moment the desire is undivided, indecision (confusion)
disappears. A shift has occurred and it’s done. So the key is in the
absence of division.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The state does not imply more than a potential for a change of mind. 
</div> 

That is the state of readiness. Indeed, to be miracle-ready can
sometimes be thought of as the destination. You see? But it’s just the
first step. And then there must be the mind training, the mental
self-discipline brought into play that allows you to become focused.
Your attention becoming undivided, undistracted. And the moment it is
not &hellip; the moment it is no longer divided, the miracle-readiness
transitions into miracle accomplished.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Confidence cannot develop fully until mastery has been accomplished. 
</div> 

Mastery meaning becoming single-minded, undivided attention, undivided
desire.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
We have already attempted to correct the fundamental error that fear can
be mastered, and have emphasized that the only real mastery is through
love. Readiness is only the beginning of confidence. You may think this
implies that an enormous amount of time is necessary between readiness
and mastery, but let me remind you that time and space are under my
control. 
</div> 

Confidence. You think of confidence as something you bolster up, you rev
it up. You actually use your bodies—many of you workout, many of you
exercise, many of you jog—and you do this to get your body into shape.
And part of the reason is that the more cohesive your body feels, the
more you think you can feel confident in the actions you engage in with
your body.

But confidence here is the state of undivided single-mindedness; when
you have a desire that is undivided, undistracted by anything.
Confidence is knowing that 2+2 = 4. This confidence doesn’t require
force. It’s a knowing of an unalterable fact that you have absolutely no
question about in your mind. You see? That’s confidence. Confidence
isn’t bravado. You see? It’s not forcefulness. It’s unchangeable,
peaceful, awareness of an unalterable fact. Confidence when experienced
shows you that there is no need for defense of anything. And usually you
associate confidence with a capacity to defend yourself well. So I want
you to consider this meaning for the word “confidence.”

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
It says, “But let me remind you that time and space are under my
control.” Does that imply that &hellip; that are long as we are ready and
are in the process of becoming masterful with the mind, that &hellip; that
through the Grace of God at any moment, it can click.
</div> 

Absolutely.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So that there is a jump, an immediate shift and we’re awake.
</div> 

What is called a time collapse. You may not be suddenly totally awake,
but there will be a sudden shift of perception.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So that you’re more awake.
</div> 

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Relatively speaking.
</div> 

That is correct. Exactly.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Does this fit right in with you having control of everything that
doesn’t matter? Is that &hellip;
</div> 

Yes, it does.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Time and space doesn’t matter.
</div> 

Of course, that is correct.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I keep having this niggling question which is a little like
his—unresolved. How do you apply what has just been said in this
paragraph to what many would call “the incorrigibles.” I still am
confused.

You should listen to Susan Tuttle. She had this incredible answer.

I still am confused. Okay, I’ll be more specific. Let’s say there are
those who appear one’s friends, and yet, there’s a gap. There is a
constant ongoing lack of rapport manifested. I’m sure everyone has had
that experience in an ongoing difficulty in which you see on the horizon
the potential for healing, but yet it just keeps missing.
</div> 

Well in a way, you could liken that scenario to the one on the world
stage at the present time. One must say “No” to the incorrigible
behavior, while at the same time being available to be the Presence of
Love which invites a change of mind on the part of the one being
incorrigible, desiring for healing to be the goal, knowing all along
that the one seeming to be incorrigible is a fellow Christ, a Brother, a
Sister, the direct and unalterable Expression of God, no matter how
they’re seeing themselves, and being willing to be that point of love
that comes forth as education. Education being the provision of the
example of your benign-ness.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Would or could you be specific in terms of who is being incorrigible—the
one that is threatening war, or the one that is the objective of that?
And wherein lies the perspective that we might become clearer to see?
When three countries in the world support one, and the rest of the
country is saying “No, we have to deal with the incorrigible in another
way &hellip;”
</div> 

Let me just throw this out. That’s three more than I had willing to
witness for me at the time of the crucifixion. The number willing to
support does not necessarily determine the correctness of the one being
supported.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Thereby we probably have two incorrigibles with extreme.
</div> 

No. If it is not clear to you where a call for correction exists in this
case, I encourage you to listen again. I encourage you to listen within
again, more deeply. Whether the steps being taken are occurring
awkwardly or not, whether they are happening for the very best reasons
or not, they are essential steps.

Is that clear enough for you?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yes. I believe &hellip;
</div> 

Now this is one of the reasons that I pointed out earlier this evening
and wanted to get out into the air, so to speak, the fact that the
reasons for steps of correction must be healing, and not punishment.
This is the place where adjustment needs to occur in the global family.

Paul is reluctant to let me speak for fear of being on the hot seat, so
to speak.

We will go to Trish’s question, and I will finagle what I have to say
behind Paul’s back.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Raj, I got a glimpse of what I think you’re saying here about education.
What I’m not seeing on the world scene is the reasons for the
hostilities, which I feel really need to be surfaced, rather than &hellip;
</div> 

What hostilities are you talking of?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
The hostilities between the governments. What’s promoting or provoking
war in the first place. The issues that are not being addressed, such as
poverty, the imbalance of the world’s wealth, greed, inhumanity,
inhumanness. These issues. And the inquiry of religious fanaticism
hiding behind… because of deep inner seated jealousies, ancient
jealousies, hiding behind God to exercise these hatreds. This is the
education I feel that needs to be re-educated, even to the point of
maybe helicopters with pamphlets. [laughing] There are things I feel
that can be done and now, rather than this constant focus and
preoccupation as whether we should go to war, whether we should not go
to war. This is not, to me, this is not where the focus needs to be.
</div> 

At the moment that is where the focus needs to be. The focus needs to be
on the meaning of the word “No.” And it needs to be focused exactly
where it’s being focused.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Well, but this other &hellip;
</div> 

As I have said before, once you have restrained unrestrained expressions
of harm,&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I see. Yeah, I see what you’re saying.
</div> 

&hellip; then education can begin.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay.
</div> 

It is a shame that it has gotten to the point where there is
unrestrained expression of harm. Education should have come into play
much sooner.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Long before this. But they go hand in hand. I mean this is the intent of
restraint, and then education.
</div> 

At the bottom line that is correct. That is at the bottom line what this
uncivilized, civilized world is attempting to embody right now. But just
as with any tax bill, or appropriations bill, that goes through your
Congress, there are little agendas tacked on. And the little agendas
will need ultimately to be dropped off so that the fundamental humane
acts of love that constitute being truly civilized are the alpha and
omega of the action that’s engaged in, without the private little
leveraging agendas that get tacked onto it for personal gain, or
national gain, and so on.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So it’s first things first.
</div> 

Yes. First thing you have to do is get their attention. The first thing
I have to do is get your attention. And you’re not an enemy. Until one’s
&hellip; until the attention is gotten, communication can’t occur. And
until communication can occur, resolution and healing cannot occur. And
if the reason for communication is love, then the manner in which
communication is engaged in will in all respects conform to the end
goal, which is the mutual experience of love. Friendship.

And you know what? In order for that to happen, as you all know, each of
you has to become defenseless, so that you might be able to be genuine
with each other, so that you can speak from your heart of hearts, and so
that you might voice the discrepancies that you see that you have been
experiencing. Not as a form of attack, but as a point for the two of you
to become mutually clearer about where there can be healing.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
You surface the truth of the issues.
</div> 

Indeed. But you know what the truth of the issue is, at the bottom line?
Everybody wants to be loved. Everyone wants to be respected. Everyone
wants to be able to feel love for everyone else. Everyone wants to feel
safe in giving and receiving love, and in being respected. That’s it at
the bottom line. And if you are all the direct Expression of God, and
therefore the Christ—plain, pure and simple then you are all worthy of
respect and love and kindness, and nothing less.

There is a United States in order for there to be a united world that
even goes beyond the meaning of united states. Everyone is going to have
to desire for there to be peace, and desire it enough to behave in a way
that inspires others to let down their defenses, in order to find that
in the absence of their defenses they don’t get attacked and that they
are safe. And when the desire that all of you embody for your Brothers
globally to feel safe, and where there can be open communion one with
another around the globe, when that desire becomes undivided, that’s
when [snap of the fingers] it happens. That is when it’s done. That’s
when the first domino falls, and the second and the third and the fourth
and the fifth, and on, and on.

Are you getting it?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yeah.
</div> 

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay over these last three weeks we’ve been working really hard to pin
you down.
</div> 

Working really hard?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
To pin you down on the issues that are facing us. You have told us
several times that Hitler is now awake.
</div> 

Indeed.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
When Hitler was embodied he was responsible for an awful lot of
inhumanity.
</div> 

Not all by himself.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
No, not all by himself, but as a symbol he represents and was the
leader, at least of the fascist movement. And at the time the free world
said, “No, we are not going to have this.” And the free world said “No”
with such ferocity that it went down in history as World War II. And
many people died during this war, and there were many atrocities during
this war. Did the ferocity of the free world, did the ferocity of the
free world saying “No,” did that play a role in Hitler’s awakening? And
was it the most healing thing for the world to do at the time under
those circumstances?
</div> 

It’s a dangerous question you ask. It played a role in his awakening
only in the sense that the Holy Spirit can use every event on behalf of
the one waking up. But let’s not think that the world, or the United
States and a few allies saying an unequivocal “No” to Saddam Hussein
will have the beneficent effect of promoting his awakening, and
therefore perhaps further justify saying “No” vehemently.

You know what I do want you to &hellip; I want everyone who’s hearing what
I am saying to know? Everyone… many are surprised that Hitler is awake
after such a short passage of time since the atrocities he engaged in.
It’s possible for Saddam Hussein to wake up tomorrow and not some years
after his death. It’s possible for each one of you to wake up tomorrow.
Keep that in mind because it keeps perspective. Because at the same time
you say “No” with physical force, you will know and you will be open to
the possibility of a sudden shift of perception—a spontaneous, sudden
shift of perception on his part. And there is a need for a sudden shift
of perception on his part.

The ferocity of the “No” that you spoke of in World War II was an
example of, we will say, relatively speaking, a global desire that came
close to a point of being undivided. And when a desire for that which
represents Truth and God and Life becomes undivided, as I said, the
desire becomes fulfilled spontaneously. Which is another reason that I
have been addressing everyone’s willingness, or the need for everyone to
be willing to become involved to the point of saying “No” where “No”
needs to be said, and “Yes” where “Yes” needs to be said.

So that whether you join the infantry and go to the front, or whether
you’re at home, your un-private thoughts, your un-private
commitment—because there are no private thoughts—do join on behalf of
healing. Again not punishment, healing. And you know what? The potential
for redemption.

If someone has a highly communicable disease, you quarantine him. Why?
Well because at the bottom line you’re unaware of your invulnerability
as a Child of God. If you knew that you could not be subject to
something that God didn’t create, you would not quarantine the person
with this disease. That wouldn’t correct the problem. But it would
determine how you behaved relative to him. As long as you don’t know how
to be in the presence of the communicable disease without catching it,
you quarantine him, or her, and then you take steps to heal. So, is this
making sense?

You do what you have to do under the circumstances at your present point
of growth, your present point of awakening, while at the same time
turning toward the Altar to be open to even clearer views of Reality As
God Is Being It, so that that might become embodied in the Gift of Love
that constitutes the Act of Love that is the Atonement.

So right now everyone is engaged in acts of confinement of a problem
that are in many ways gross, not very spiritual, because you don’t yet
have the spiritual means to do it otherwise. So you do it the way you
have to do it, while at the same time remembering what I brought out at
the beginning this evening. That correction means healing, not
punishment. So that you might not forget that your focus of attention
needs to be on healing, transformation, regeneration, redemption. If
healing is the goal, then every aspect of the means of arriving at the
healing will reflect and embody that goal.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Even war? If it has to come to that? If you hold the idea that the
intent is for healing and transformation, not for punishment?
</div> 

Even the forceful confinement or restraining of a continuing intent to
bring harm, yes. If you wish to call that war, you may.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I’m trying to be very clear on supporting what needs to be done with the
right attitude.
</div> 

What I want to point out is that the more individuals on your globe who
will become involved and take a stand “Yes” or “No”—”Yes” for that which
reflects and identifies God, and “No” to that which does not—the more on
your globe that would take a position, cast their vote, the less and
less likely it would be that a single missile would be fired, or shot
would be fired. But if that kind of resolve cannot be arrived at in the
mind of mankind, then absolutely missiles will have to be launched,
bullets will have to be fired, and the confinement will have to be
accomplished. You cannot look at something that does not reflect God and
is aggressively opposite to Love, and say, “I will not say ‘No’ to this
until I can do it from a supreme level of divine spirituality.” You’ve
got to say “No” in whatever way works.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I think you’ve really cleared up a lot of confusion around this, this
evening, and I thank you, at least for myself.

Well, I’m not quiet at peace with this because I notice that whatever
goes on, on the big scene usually does show up personally. And I
certainly have been met with the last few months, a year or so, with an
ongoing message that certainly I felt was broadcast as a dinner bell
before, let’s say, the pending threat of war has shown up. And that
message which I can’t say that I’ve gotten a handle on, or have healed
is this. That our main enslavement or preoccupation is with two things,
and this is what my Guide said, that keeps us in a box, each one of us
in the box.

And those two messages or the temptation around mutual agreements, are
righteousness and personal power. And I feel if I had healed that within
the point of my awareness, I may not be seeing on the world stage what I
see today. And even so, I’m keen to it, and anytime when the air of,
let’s say, where my interest is drawn to what is right, or
righteousness. Everyone on the war scene feels like their a good guy in
a bad world. And that to me still stands as the dilemma.

And I’m sure that’s why we have this whole book, and the time to work
out this dilemma of how &hellip; at least I am still working on how do I
talk away, argue away, in my own awareness the issue of righteousness,
and out of the valuing of righteousness that I would attempt to exercise
personal power. That to me has been where I’ve been working within, you
know, behind the scenes to reckon with those two issues as I feel is the
basis of the correction. So I’ll be quiet.
</div> 

I can answer this relatively briefly. Righteousness and personal power
are selfish. They’re always with the focus on the self, the self feeling
righteous, the self wanting personal power. It is very simply the nature
of the ego, which is incapable of extension, which is incapable of
embrace, which is incapable of putting another’s interest before its
own.

Don’t you find it interesting that the Atonement is an Act of Love, and
not something else? It’s the specific thing which breaks the dream. It’s
the specific thing that undoes the illusions. Because an Act of Love is
not selfish. It doesn’t relate to one’s self. It requires involvement or
joining. And more than the joining that happens between one person and
another, it’s the primary joining that one has to engage in with the
Father in order to be infilled with What Love Really Is, and the
inspiration of it that causes it to spontaneously bubble forth and
embrace another, thus breaking the isolation.

Again that’s the point of what I wanted to convey tonight. Correction
means healing, not punishment, where correction is needed. And it
involves each one’s willingness to provide the correction where it’s
needed, not with any sense of righteousness, not with any sense of
personal power, but as a communication of benign-ness and friendship.

And you know what? Every single country in this world has friends that
it needs to reestablish its friendship with. You get that? Not enemies
that they have to establish friendships with, but old friends, forever
friends, that they have forgotten their friendship with and need to
reestablish those friendships that could never actually end. And that’s
it in a nutshell. And just to be utterly clear. If one of the friends,
by virtue of both friends forgetting that they were friends, has become
so frightened that there is low trust and that one continues to be
unfriendly when overtures of friendliness are extended, the one who has
become clear enough to care, to extend friendship once again, must
refrain from becoming reactive to the lack of trust, and persist in
extending friendship apparently over time, over a period of time, with
persistence, so that, for lack of better words, a history of friendship
and benign-ness has been embodied, acted out, in the world. And do this
for however long it takes for the more frightened friend to lay down his
fear. And that must be the goal.

If the frightened friend is inclined to express his fear in harmful
acts, steps must be taken to keep those harmful acts from becoming
actualized. Why? So that harm does not occur to either one while the
reestablishing of an ancient friendship occurs.

Does that answer your question?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yes, thank you.
</div> 

The next section which we will begin on next week is called “The Meaning
of the Last Judgment.” Good timing.

I love you.

Two things. I know this sounds trite. Love one another as I have loved
you. Second thing, I encourage all of you to revisit last week’s
Gathering, because in it you will find that I described exactly how to
deal with Saddam Hussein, and I did it by describing at some length how
I deal with you.

Okay, I look forward to being with you next week.

[^1]: T2.VII Cause and Effect
[^2]: Students commenting or asking a question.

