---
title: Mar 6, 2003
ref: T2.VIII The Meaning of the Last Judgment
---

Good evening. We will go directly to the book. And again for those in
the second edition, we&rsquo;re on page 33 section VIII, &ldquo;The
Meaning of the Last Judgment.&rdquo; And for those in the first edition
it&rsquo;s on page 29. Go ahead &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*The Meaning of the Last Judgment*[^1]

One of the ways in which you can correct the magic-miracle confusion is
to remember that you did not create yourself.
</div>

Ah &hellip; that&rsquo;s because when you engage in what would be called
magic, it amounts to you thinking that you exist in your own right, on
your own, independent, and that in that state you have a capacity to
make things happen. In other words, you are god, you are the creator.
And whatever you believe that you create is only an effect of magic, and
it&rsquo;s an illusion.

The miracle, on the other hand, is the result of your not standing
separate, not thinking that you exist in your own right separate and
independent, and having no capacity whatsoever to act on your own. In
other words, you are not God, but God is all there is of you. And in
this perspective and in this state of mind, your very Being is
expressing the meaning of the statement &ldquo;Thy Will be done,
Father.&rdquo; And you&rsquo;re in a State of Listening, in a State of
Union, in a State of Communion with God, which is your natural State of
Being. It&rsquo;s the only State of Being you have.

From there, because of your union and because of your yielding to the
Father&rsquo;s Will, His Will becomes yours. And you act out the
Presence of God. You embody God. You give expression to God. And when
you begin to do that as you are waking up, the result is what is called
a miracle&mdash;a sudden shift of perception in you that, as I&rsquo;ve
said before, causes you to behave in a new way, embody in a new way, no
longer embodying magic or illusion. So, if you can all dare to consider
the possibility that not only did you not create yourself, but your
parents didn&rsquo;t create you either, and that if there&rsquo;s
anything there at all right where you are, it&rsquo;s God being All
There Is of you, then confusion will leave, and what is embodied will be
cohesive, will be unified, perfect, lovely, harmonizing. Everything you
do will fit into the Wholeness of Creation as an integral part of the
Wholeness of Creation. And you will see the happy dream begin to be
manifested in the world.

Again, the key lies in daring to consider the possibility that you are
not self-created, and that you are not what you have come to the
conclusion that you are based upon your ability to think and reason and
come to conclusions. You are not self-created. Your existence is
entirely God-derived.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You are apt to forget this when you become egocentric, and this puts you
in a position where a belief in magic is virtually inevitable.
</div> 

In fact, it&rsquo;s not only inevitable, it&rsquo;s going to seem to you
to be absolutely necessary in order for you to survive.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your will to create was given you by your Creator, Who was expressing
the same Will in His creation. Since creative ability rests in the mind,
everything you create is necessarily a matter of will. It also follows
that whatever you alone make is real in your own sight, though not in
the Mind of God. This basic distinction leads directly into the real
meaning of the Last Judgment.
</div> 

Since creative ability rests in the mind and we&rsquo;ve talked before
about the fact that there are no idle thoughts, every thought you have
has an effect, whether Real or not.

Everything you create is necessarily a matter of will. And I&rsquo;d
like to make a little distinction here. When you are behaving as though
you are self-created, the word &ldquo;will,&rdquo; the word
&ldquo;willfulness&rdquo; is what describes the mode of your creativity.
When you are joined with the Father and not claiming a right to any
independent act of will, the word &ldquo;willingness&rdquo; is the best
expression of the way in which you create, because you are willing to
let the Father embody Himself in you as you, and let that find
expression in your every act. So it&rsquo;s a different kind of will.

Another distinction that needs to be made is that willfulness always
embodies your fear and acts out defense. Whereas when you are joined
with the Father and claiming no separate right to act on your own, your
acts embody, embrace inclusion, Love, and constitute the extension of
healing.

Let us continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Last Judgment is one of the most threatening ideas in your thinking.
This is because you do not understand it. Judgment is not an attribute
of God. It was brought into being only after the separation, when it
became one of the many learning devices to be built into the overall
plan.
</div> 

The overall plan of reawakening. Indeed.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Just as the separation occurred over millions of years, the Last
Judgment will extend over a similarly long period, and perhaps an even
longer one.
</div> 

Now, I&rsquo;m going to interrupt here because that can sound very
discouraging. But I&rsquo;m going to mention this. Once you awaken, you
will make true judgments all the time, because that is natural to you.
To recognize What Is True and nothing else, constitutes the very Nature
of Being, with a capital &ldquo;B&rdquo;, your True Being. And just as a
habit isn&rsquo;t dropped lightly and requires of you persistence as a
new habit develops, you will find yourself consciously practicing
judgment&mdash;meaning the recognition of What Is Of Value and nothing
else. You will do that with persistence. But not because you&rsquo;re
any longer overcoming an inclination to go back to the old habit. It
will seem to go on for a great deal of time. That&rsquo;s what it means,
&ldquo;until time leaves your awareness, until time is abolished.&rdquo;

So don&rsquo;t be discouraged. Hitler is awake now. I am awake now. All
of your Guides are awake now. Awakening can happen now. So do not be
discouraged by this. It is not meant to discourage you.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The length of the Last Judgment, however, can &hellip;

&hellip; be greatly shortened by miracles, the device for shortening but
not abolishing time. If a sufficient number become truly miracle-minded,
this shortening process can be virtually immeasurable. It is essential,
however, that you free yourself from fear quickly, because you must
emerge from the conflict if you are to bring peace to other minds.
</div> 

And in the second edition it says &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is essential, however, that you free yourself from fear quickly,
because you must emerge from the conflict if you are to bring peace to
other minds.
</div> 

Now that&rsquo;s your job. To bring peace. To bring peace to other
minds.

Relinquishing fear, abandoning it, is easy. And everyone who has
meditated has demonstrated this to themselves. Abandoning fear is easy
if you don&rsquo;t value it. So, abandoning fear so that you find
yourself in your peace is something any of you can do at any moment
during any day, and you can do it as often as you choose. That&rsquo;s
not difficult. That is not going to take millions of years to
accomplish. And so you have the capacity, all of you, today to access
your peace and be available to bring peace to other minds.

Interesting, isn&rsquo;t it, that it&rsquo;s your job to bring peace?
You could say that it&rsquo;s your job to wage peace, instead of war.
And I&rsquo;ll just take a moment to be utterly clear here.

Waging peace, bringing peace to the minds of others is accomplished by
saying &ldquo;No&rdquo; to everything that is unlike peace. It
isn&rsquo;t just a sweet, smiling peaceful face and gentle demeanor. It
is a gentle spirit capable of unequivocally saying &ldquo;No&rdquo; to
that which doesn&rsquo;t represent peace, to that which doesn&rsquo;t
embody peace. And then in peace providing an irresistible invitation to
your Brother to join you in that peace and in the attitude of Love that
insures that peace will be embodied further.

I could put it this way. Teachers of Peace are not wimps. Teachers of
Peace are able to stand in the face of calls for Love that appear to be
attack, without being swayed by the presentation, but with the
capability to unswervingly say &ldquo;No,&rdquo; an absolute
&ldquo;No&rdquo; to that which doesn&rsquo;t support peace, so that the
educational Expression of Love and Intelligence can occur and transform.

Let&rsquo;s continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Last Judgment is generally thought of as a procedure undertaken by
God. Actually it will be undertaken by my brothers with my help.
</div> 

And I&rsquo;ll tell you right now, that that&rsquo;s what we&rsquo;re
doing here every Thursday evening. And that&rsquo;s what happens every
time any one of you joins with Me or with your Guide. I am helping you
discern between What Is Real and what is not, so that you can choose for
What Is and abandon what is not, withdraw your investment in what is
not.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is a final healing rather than a meting out of punishment, however
much you may think that punishment is deserved. Punishment is a concept
totally opposed to right-mindedness, and the aim of the Last Judgment is
to restore right-mindedness to you. The Last Judgment might be called a
process of right evaluation.
</div> 

Read that sentence again.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Last Judgment might be called a process of right evaluation.
</div> 

And so actually, the word &ldquo;last&rdquo; doesn&rsquo;t mean quite
what you thought it did.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It simply means that everyone will finally come to understand what is
worthy and what is not.
</div> 

Yes. In other words, you will spontaneously and easily make the
distinction between What Is Worthy and what is not. You will be able to
distinguish the tares from the wheat.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
After this, the ability to choose can be directed rationally.
</div> 

Now you hear people throwing around the idea of distinguishing the tares
from the wheat. And you wait until the tares and the wheat are full
grown because that&rsquo;s when you can finally recognize the
difference. When they&rsquo;re young, they all look the same. And so, if
you try to separate it then, you will throw out the good with the bad.

You have to distinguish between the tares and the wheat, and then what? You
have to separate the tares from the wheat. An act occurs. A decision
that governs your actions occurs. And in this case, the action is your
withdrawal of your investment of faith in what has no value, even if
everyone else mutually agrees that what you are abandoning is of value
still.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Until this distinction is made, however, the vacillations between free
and imprisoned will cannot but continue.
</div>

Important point. Until this distinction is made vacillations between
free will and imprisoned will, will continue. You will still be confused
and what you embody will manifest that confusion.

Essential to awakening is the making of distinctions. This is so
important, especially in the present time when &ldquo;New Age&rdquo;
thought says, &ldquo;Everyone is creating their own world. And
it&rsquo;s not appropriate to interfere with someone else&rsquo;s point
of view.&rdquo; It is a laissez-faire attitude, an &ldquo;anything
goes&rdquo; attitude where no distinction between What Is Of Value and
what is not is being made. And the result of that is, for lack of better
words, the breakdown of the moral fiber of society.
&ldquo;Nothing&rsquo;s right or wrong. Thinking makes it so. Whatever
you make up, hey, that&rsquo;s your right. Whatever I make up, hey,
that&rsquo;s my right.&rdquo; But there is… there is a Groundedness of
Being, and the Groundedness of Being is Truth, What Is True. And if
you&rsquo;re not making any distinction between What Is True and what
you made-up, you&rsquo;re lost.

And so, in the recognition that awakening requires that distinction be
made, you are going to seem to step on the toes of egos who want the
right to believe anything and to say, &ldquo;If you don&rsquo;t think
it&rsquo;s right, that&rsquo;s just your opinion. It doesn&rsquo;t
count. It doesn&rsquo;t matter.&rdquo; It does matter.

Now, how are you going to know What Is True? How are you going to make
the distinction? You&rsquo;re going to have to ask somebody who knows
the difference. You&rsquo;re going to have to become a student.
You&rsquo;re going to have to say, &ldquo;You know, I&rsquo;m willing to
believe that I don&rsquo;t know What The Truth Is at the moment, and I
want someone who does truly know What The Truth Is to help me make the
distinction.&rdquo; And that is exactly what every one of your Guides is
for&mdash;to help you redefine by distinguishing correctly between
illusions that you think are real, and Realities that are Real. Because,
you know what? You&rsquo;re not experiencing total illusion.
You&rsquo;re experiencing Reality mixed in with a lot of
misunderstandings, a lot of mutually-agreed-upon definitions that, in
the end, were made as a defense against knowing the Truth.

So again, awakening isn&rsquo;t for wimps. It isn&rsquo;t going to be
for the namby-pamby. It&rsquo;s going to be for those who are willing to
take on the task of making distinctions where everyone else
doesn&rsquo;t want to make distinctions. Is that making sense?

Now, that might seem scary if you think it&rsquo;s your job to convince
everyone else of Truth. You know what? When you ask to know What The
Truth Is of your Guide, of the Holy Spirit, of the Father, and Truth is
uncovered to you, it&rsquo;s a relief. There&rsquo;s peace with it. You
are relieved of the fear you were experiencing because you didn&rsquo;t
know What The Truth Is. And, as I&rsquo;ve said before, you feel safe.
And you know what happens when you&rsquo;re feeling safe and
you&rsquo;re not confused? You don&rsquo;t behave in an unloving way
toward your Brother, or your Sister. Just like you don&rsquo;t find me
behaving in an unlovely or an unkind way with you.

And so your Presence as you express the Truth is one which makes it
quite possible for the one you&rsquo;re sharing it with to hear it with
fresh ears, and not be put off by you. Truth that is revealed to you,
the Divine One that You Are, is not something you will hit everyone else
over the head with. There will be no contest to it. So it isn&rsquo;t a
scary thing if you engage in it.

When you see others &ldquo;get a hold of the Truth and lay it on
ya&rdquo; [audience laugh], and you feel the discomfort of that, you
might think that if you got hold of Truth, you&rsquo;d do the same
thing. And you know you don&rsquo;t want to do that. And so you might
say, &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t want to know What The Truth Is because I
don&rsquo;t want to end up beating everybody over the head with
it.&rdquo; So, I encourage you to dare to explore listening for the
Truth so it might be revealed to you, so that it might affect the way
you behave in the world, and you become an agent for change without
arousing fear and resistance in your Brothers and Sisters.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The first step toward freedom involves a sorting out of the false from
the true. This is a process of separation in the constructive sense, and
reflects the true meaning of the Apocalypse.
</div> 

Do you know what? There&rsquo;s only three things God won&rsquo;t let
you have. Only three things He won&rsquo;t let you have&mdash;sin,
disease, and death. The Apocalypse is the sorting out of those three
things so they are sorted out of your experience.

Of course, you have named, you&rsquo;ve given definitions to, you have
created for yourself illusions of lots of diseases, lots of sins, and
lots of ways to die. But that really doesn&rsquo;t complicate anything
at all, &lsquo;cause there are only three things&mdash;sin, disease, and
death&mdash;no matter by how many names you call it. So again, awakening
isn&rsquo;t as hard as you might be imagining.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Everyone will ultimately look upon his own creations and choose to
preserve only what is good, just as God Himself looked upon what He had
created and knew that it was good.
</div> 

You see, when you look on the results of your thoughts that were good,
and you see that they are good, you see that they are truly good, you
see that they are eternally good, you&rsquo;re placing a benediction on
them just as the Father did. &ldquo;And God saw everything that He had
made, and behold, it was very good.&rdquo; That&rsquo;s a benediction.
That&rsquo;s Love. That&rsquo;s an Acknowledgment of Truth.

So do you see that the making of the distinction between What&rsquo;s Of
Value and what isn&rsquo;t, constitutes a choice that you make where
what is valueless is obviously valueless, and you let go of your valuing
of it, and it&rsquo;s gone. And What Is Of Value you recognize as Good,
as of the Nature of God, and of the Nature of the Real You. And so,
making the distinction allows you to clearly glorify God.

And so it&rsquo;s not you sitting in your ivory tower making
distinctions.  &ldquo;That&rsquo;s good. That&rsquo;s bad. You&rsquo;re
in. You&rsquo;re out. I like you. I don&rsquo;t like you.&rdquo; You
see? It&rsquo;s a holier thing than making distinctions between right
and wrong and self-righteously declaring it. It&rsquo;s a holy thing to
make the distinction so that what is not of value no longer receives
your attention because clearly it is meaningless to you.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
At this point, the mind can begin to look with love on its own creations
because of their worthiness. At the same time the mind will inevitably
disown its miscreations which, without belief, will no longer exist.
</div> 

Yes. Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The term &ldquo;Last Judgment&rdquo; is frightening not only because it
has been projected onto God, but also because of the association of
&ldquo;last&rdquo; with death. This is an outstanding example of
upside-down perception. If the meaning of the Last Judgment is
objectively examined, it is quite apparent that it is really the doorway
to life.
</div> 

Yes. Remember last week we were talking about the word
&ldquo;correction.&rdquo; And that from the ego&rsquo;s standpoint, the
word &ldquo;correction&rdquo; means judgment. It means punishment.

But correction as we are using it here means healing. So the Last
Judgment unclearly interpreted would see you being subject to correction
and punishment. But, to be provided with the clarity to make the
distinction between What Is Of Value and what is not, your being able to
make the distinction means that you become dis-illusioned. You see? And
you are left with clarity, and so it&rsquo;s the beginning of being
awake. And so it&rsquo;s healing, not punishment. You see?

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
No one who is &hellip; No one who &hellip; it is quite apparent that it
is really the doorway to life. Okay.[^2]
</div>

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
No one who lives in fear is really alive.
</div> 

Yes. And I just want to insert here that at the present time on your
globe the majority of you are living in fear. And it&rsquo;s not your
Birthright. And it&rsquo;s not to be really alive. And so, whatever it
takes to say &ldquo;No&rdquo; to that which seems to create fear is
essential.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
May I ask a question?
</div> 

Yes, you may.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
You said that the majority of us here on this planet are living in fear.
Does that mean that there are some people who are fearless on this
planet? I&rsquo;ve never met one. That&rsquo;s why I&rsquo;m curious.
</div> 

There are many who are living in a great deal less fear than others. And
I&rsquo;m inviting all of you to join those who are so disposed at the
present time, so that the weight for &hellip; (the w-e-i-g-h-t) &hellip;
the weight for Truth can become more focused, more single, more pure.
And thus help to bring peace to other minds.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And this is accomplished primarily by corrective thinking? Is
that&hellip;
</div> 

That is correct.	

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And we&rsquo;re doing that right now. So what we&rsquo;re doing here is
becoming less and less fearful.
</div> 

I hope that you are.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Alright, I&rsquo;m just wondering if there&rsquo;s any shortcuts?
That&rsquo;s why &hellip;
</div> 

You don&rsquo;t need shortcuts to be the Presence of Love. You should
wish for Eternity to be able to be the Presence of Love. You should wish
not to be able to get it over with quickly. It&rsquo;s your Function to
be this with each other forever.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So as one becomes more and more loving, then automatically they become
less and less fearful.
</div> 

Of course, because Love and fear can&rsquo;t occupy the same space. And
you become more and more loving by joining with the Father so that you
might know exactly what embodies Love under the particular
circumstances, rather than your going through steps to embody a concept
of love that you have held, perhaps for all of your life or for a number
of years.

Because a concept of love does not have the bubbly in it of actual
Living Love. It&rsquo;s just a rehash. It&rsquo;s like an old bottle of
&hellip; it&rsquo;s like an old glass of champagne. You need to be
constantly opening a new bottle of champagne. You need to constantly be
opening the Presence of Love that the Father would extend through you
now, and now, and now, without any preconception as to how that&rsquo;s
going to appear. As I&rsquo;ve said before, sometimes it will be a
caress. Sometimes it will be a strong arm holding down an obstreperous
and careless individual. So you can&rsquo;t dare to second guess what is
called for based on your best past perceptions or your best concept of
what love is.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your own last judgment cannot be directed toward yourself, because you
are not your own creation.
</div> 

Isn&rsquo;t that wonderful? So the Last Judgment isn&rsquo;t &hellip;
hasn&rsquo;t shifted from God condemning you to you condemning you,
because it&rsquo;s not about you at all. It&rsquo;s about misplaced
value. It&rsquo;s about discerning where you have misplaced value.
It&rsquo;s not where you look and discover what a sorry asshole
you&rsquo;ve been. [audience laughter] It&rsquo;s a joyful experience of
recognizing things you were believing that aren&rsquo;t true that you
were suffering from needlessly, and that you can now be free of
suffering from because it&rsquo;s such obvious nonsense. And because
it&rsquo;s so clearly obvious, you&rsquo;re not attracted to it anymore.
It&rsquo;s relief. And it&rsquo;s joy.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You can, however, apply it meaningfully and at any time to everything
you have made, and retain in your memory only what is creative and good.
</div> 

Now you can apply it meaningfully and at any time, but I&rsquo;m going to
say at any time that you join with someone who knows the Truth, and
you&rsquo;ve asked, &ldquo;Please show me the difference,&rdquo; and
then willingly accept the difference, willingly look at things anew
without insisting upon hanging onto an old pet perception, or an old or
past loved concept.

So the more consistently you&rsquo;re in touch with your Guide or the
Holy Spirit, the more consistently your misperceptions will be uncovered
to you. Not with any judgment on you, but with simple distinction so
that you&rsquo;re able to say, &ldquo;Wow! That&rsquo;s
meaningless.&rdquo; And in that recognition, be free of it forever. And
be the happier for it.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is what your right-mindedness cannot but dictate. The purpose of
time is solely to &ldquo;give you time&rdquo; to achieve this judgment.
It is your own perfect judgment of your own perfect creations. When
everything you retain is lovable, there is no reason for fear to remain
with you. This is your part in the Atonement.
</div> 

Whew!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is your part in the Atonement.
</div> 

What&rsquo;s is the Atonement? An Act of Love. So, when you do this, you
make a gift to everyone and everything, because your mind becomes
single, without distractions, without confusions. And in that
singleness, in that single-mindedness, in that purity of the awareness
of What Truth Is, in the awareness of What Truth Is, you spontaneously
and effortlessly and without conscious design become a beacon of Light,
a Presence of Love that blesses absolutely everyone. Not just on your
globe, but the whole Brotherhood&mdash;those who are awake as well as
those who are still dreaming dreams.

So, when you do this &hellip; well, there&rsquo;s no reason for delay.
And that means you&rsquo;ve got to start doing it right where you are.
Right where the calls for Love are coming from that appear as hate and
attack. And right there with those who are apparently loving as well,
and those who are not making waves or creating dissonance. Because
you&rsquo;re not totally free of illusion about either one of
them&mdash;those who are lovely and lovable, and those who are calling
for Love and appear to be hateful and a problem.

Yes. Somebody had a hand?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Some years ago if I remember correctly in my study of the Course under
your direction, you were making the distinction between discernment and
judgment. That being when you see an apple and an orange, you&rsquo;re
discerning that there is a difference, but you&rsquo;re not judging one
to be better or other than the other.
</div> 

Exactly.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Of late in our discussions here on Thursday night, it seems to have been
a greater distinction to make a &ldquo;Yes&rdquo; a &ldquo;No.&rdquo;
Make a choice for the correct, the good, the way the Father would see
it.
</div> 

Well let&rsquo;s put it this way. You have a bowl of oranges and you
have a bowl of lemons, and you want to make orange juice. Are you going
to pick the lemons?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
No.
</div> 

Right. You&rsquo;re going to say &ldquo;No&rdquo; to the lemons. Not
because lemons are bad, but because lemons don&rsquo;t make orange
juice. You have to make a distinction between what fits and what
doesn&rsquo;t, what works and what doesn&rsquo;t.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
My question would be that because that was some years ago, I don&rsquo;t
remember &hellip; but now we&rsquo;re hitting the nail a little harder
on the head. We&rsquo;re making a greater distinction, a greater
discernment. Does that have, even though they&rsquo;re the same words as
they probably meant, does that have any indication as to the body waking
up more, calling for more action? Is it any distinction between a more
awake state of man?  Because now we&rsquo;ve made the distinction
between judgment and discernment, now we&rsquo;re making the distinction
between judgment as to what we choose, what the Father would choose.
I&rsquo;m just curious as to the &hellip; if that is an indicator
because it is over a period of time. And time is why we are given it to…
what is it? &hellip; &ldquo;give you time to achieve this
judgment.&rdquo; Just in my own opening up.
</div> 

Yes. It is a very good question. The call for judgment has increased
because everyone is closer to waking up. And therefore, it&rsquo;s not
only easier to make the distinctions, it&rsquo;s more necessary to make
the distinctions.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And choose.
</div> 

And choose. Exactly.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So the old judgment, the word &ldquo;judgment&rdquo; as opposed to
discernment, is a different judgment, if I would &hellip;
</div> 

That is correct.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
&hellip; today than it was five, maybe ten years ago.
</div> 

The old judgment was an evaluation of worth. The old judgment was an
evaluation of the worth of an objective thing, another individual. As in
a court of law, you have been judged and found guilty and now, because
you are a bad person, you must pay the penalty.

What we&rsquo;re talking about here is making a distinction between each
one&rsquo;s faulty definitions of what is of value and what is not, and
his true definitions of What Is Of Value and what is not. We&rsquo;re
talking about something within each individual.

And so, if you say Saddam Hussein is an evil man, you are making a
judgment about the man. But the judgment we&rsquo;re talking about is
what occurs when you say, &ldquo;Saddam Hussein is an evil man,&rdquo;
and then you catch yourself, and you ask yourself whether that thought
that you are entertaining is of value or not, whether it is a worthy
thought or not, whether it represents the Truth or not, whether it
embodies What God Is Being or not, so that you may choose not to embody
that thought. So that you choose not to embrace it. So that you say
&ldquo;No&rdquo; to the thought and are open to discover What Is True
about that man from the Father.

Now if someone is behaving badly, if someone is behaving poorly, you say
&ldquo;No&rdquo; to the poor behavior, because you know since he is the
direct Expression of God that he is capable of behaving better. And
it&rsquo;s your intent to inspire better behavior because you know
he&rsquo;s capable of it.  Your action toward him arises out of truly an
ultimate &hellip; an ultimately true awareness of him, so that your
behavior doesn&rsquo;t condemn him, but uplifts him by encouragement and
inspiration that comes out of the Love you feel because you are
apprehending him truly. All you need is the ability to make the
distinction between the two examples that I just gave. You see? And you
have to remember that your reason for being in relationships is healing,
not punishment. You see? So that the means you use embody the vision,
the goal, that you would achieve.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
May I go further?
</div> 

You may.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Could it be that the purpose being &hellip; I don&rsquo;t know the word
&hellip; exemplified &hellip; would be the calling forth of people
globally to the Iraq situation in expressing, calling forth, challenging
the greater body in making a &ldquo;Yes/No&rdquo; decision as to war as
a response to this behavior. Could &hellip; because the change from
judgment to discernment back to judgment, if you will, was over time,
could this also be as we called it twelve years ago, the Gulf Crisis as
the rebirthing of something new in the Middle East? Could this be the
next step of coming together globally to look at this as a global
response to &hellip; what might previously have been a behavior that
would have called for direct war, like in World War II or something?
What I&rsquo;m saying is are we seeing a progress and a coming together
over this issue, and might that be greater to the Truth than good or bad
behavior?
</div> 

It is a good question. It is a call. It is a global call. It is a global
roll call, if you will, inviting people, inviting everyone to discover
the part they can play by being involved together in standing with What
Is Of Value, and standing against what is not of value. Not against with
force, but against in the awareness that what is valueless is
meaningless.

There is a global call for unity of intent to demand the Expression of
Intelligence and Love and Respect for every single individuality and
nothing less. Even though this will seem to infringe on free will, which
everyone is &hellip; not everyone, but too many are intent upon valuing,
free will that is, to the point where no distinction is being made
between the allowability of free will that harms and free will that
heals.

It is time for mankind to discover its global capacity to speak on
behalf of global humaneness. It is time for mankind to globally discover
its integrity, and that it has a capacity to exert its integrity on
behalf of the integrity of every man, woman, and child on the globe, and
thereby experience a unity that transcends national ego interests. And
that this is what the call is for, is evidence of progress made. The
world, mankind, is in a new place.

I want to point something out. Many of you have jobs and you also have
relationships outside of your jobs. And you go to work and you have a
skill that you&rsquo;re able to express and embody well. But at home,
we&rsquo;ll say, you don&rsquo;t have as many skills as would be
helpful, and so what you embody and express, if it were put under a
magnifying glass, would seem to provide many opportunities for judgment
and for discrediting you. And I mean every single one of you. Is the
fact that in some areas of your life you don&rsquo;t have great skills…
does the fact that in areas of your life you don&rsquo;t have great
skill, and therefore behave poorly, does that constitute justification
for calling the good work that you are able to do skillfully in your job
into question? Be careful that you don&rsquo;t allow yourself to succumb
to the invitation to discredit an essential act of integrity, because in
some other areas, the person expressing the integrity may not have
expressed integrity. And I&rsquo;m going to leave it at that.

You all are opening up a lot and becoming significantly less defended
against what, just a short time ago, you would have been unwilling to
embrace. You are becoming more significantly grounded and stable. And
it&rsquo;s giving you the ability to recognize that every aspect of
awakening is intelligent, is reasonable. And that even though it calls
for you to embrace what would have been unthinkable in the not too
distant past, is now thinkable. And that means shift is happening.

Okay. I love you all. Good night.

[^1]: T2.VIII The Meaning of the Last Judgment
[^2]: Students commenting or asking a question.

