---
title: Mar 13, 2003
ref: T2.V.A Special Principles for Miracle Workers
fb:
  desc: T2.V.A Special Principles for Miracle Workers
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who is also joining us on the
internet.

This section in my original dictation to Helen came now. In other words,
it followed what we finished reading last week. And as I said when we
skipped it, you will find that it has much more meaning at this point
than if we had read it in the sequence you find it in the second and
first editions.

Now before we begin, I want to present two ideas. What if there&rsquo;s
only one Altar? We&rsquo;ve been talking about turning toward the Altar,
going within and turning toward the Altar. And I would be willing to bet
that all of you thought you were turning to an Altar somewhere in the
center of you, and that therefore, there were as many Altars as there
were individuals turning within. What if there&rsquo;s only one Altar?
And the Altar you&rsquo;re turning to when you go within is that one
Altar.

It&rsquo;s sort of like the illustration of the diamond that I&rsquo;ve
used in the past where each of you could be considered facets of the
diamond. If you are looking out from the diamond, you can see that there
are other facets adjoining you that seem quite independent of you,
having a distinct shape of their own, and so on, all capable of
refracting the light. But communication is difficult because you have to
bridge the line separating the facets. And you have to somehow
communicate around the outer surface of the diamond. But if as the facet
you look toward the interior of the diamond, you find that the whole
diamond is you. And you find that every other facet, every other
individuality as a facet looking toward the interior finds that the
whole diamond is what constitutes them, including you. There&rsquo;s
only one interior. And in that interior, you are all One, having, you
might say, a little bit of the surface area of the diamond specifically
identifying you. And in a way you can extrapolate from this the meaning
of being specific and universal at the same time, because you are all
universal and specific simultaneously.

So now if you&rsquo;re all turning toward the same Altar because
there&rsquo;s only one Altar, the very fact that you&rsquo;re turning
toward the Altar means you&rsquo;re turning toward each other. You see
that? The very act of turning toward the Altar means that you are all
moving into the space where you are One. Now I know that after listening
to me for some length of time or any length of time, you know that
turning toward the Altar is what you are doing when you turn toward your
Guide, or toward the Holy Spirit, or toward the Father, asking for
guidance. But now you have the added perspective that all the rest of
you are available to each other, to you along with your Guide, and along
with the Holy Spirit.

And that space, if you will, the interior of the diamond where the One
Altar is, is where you&rsquo;re already One, where you&rsquo;re already
available to each other to perceive as the Christs That You Are.
It&rsquo;s where communion with each other can occur. So I just wanted
to add that little bit of information so that you might be able to
contemplate it and abide with it.

It doesn&rsquo;t matter where any individuality is on your globe. It
doesn&rsquo;t matter where any individuality is in the Whole of
Creation. All of those individualities are available to you as some
aspect of the Infinitude Of Your Being when you are turning toward the
Altar. And that&rsquo;s where Real Communion can occur. That&rsquo;s
where you can see each other as you are and connect with each other on
that basis. And you will find that when you connect with each other from
there, you will appear to communicate with each other in the world. So
once again, this isn&rsquo;t a matter of withdrawing from the world and
going into some private mental space where you have a private
conversation mentally with your Brothers and Sisters. It&rsquo;s going
to look like something. Mind, every aspect of capital &ldquo;M&rdquo;
Mind is a Conscious Experience, and is therefore a manifested
experience. There is Visibility and Tangibility to It and it&rsquo;s
called Creation.

And so going within to gather from the Father His Perspective of your
Brother or Sister so that you might experience a miracle, a sudden shift
of perception, that allows you to Love your Brother from the gifted
perspective that you find yourself filled up with is healing.

Now the second thing I wanted to talk about is this. When you are facing
away from the Altar, you experience what I&rsquo;m going to call the
Fourth Dimensional Conscious Experience of Being as though it is a
three-dimensional-only universe. Cause arises from the Fourth
Dimensional Conscious Experience of Being and is infinitely manifest.
But if you deprive yourself of the Father&rsquo;s Perspective which is
Fourth-Dimensional&mdash;in other words, Whole, All-Inclusive&mdash;you
experience the Infinitude of Creation as though it&rsquo;s external to
you and as though it&rsquo;s self-existent. And as I said last week and
the week before, when your back is to the Altar, everything you see is
seen through the lens of fear. And so this three-dimensional universe
that you see appears to be fearsome and you become locked into a
defensive stance toward it. You are suffering from ignorance of What It
Is. And in the ignorance of What It Is, you give it definition yourself.
But all your definitions amount to are beliefs. And the minute you
create a belief, you also create &ldquo;the believer&rdquo;. There is no
believer. There&rsquo;s only the Son of God, the Daughter of God. But
the moment you create a belief, you necessarily create a believer, and
then you begin to think that&rsquo;s who you are&mdash;the believer of
what you&rsquo;re believing.

Now, I&rsquo;m bringing this up for a very important reason and that is,
that when correction occurs, which means healing, it is absolutely
essential for the belief be separated from the Christ that seems to be
suffering from the belief.

And so we will pick the obvious example, I will pick two obvious
examples of how correction can occur. You have an individuality by the
name of Saddam Hussein. You also have an individuality by the name of
George W. Bush. There are other individuals on the stage at the moment.
And depending upon your point of view, the two individuals I have named
are considered evil men. But, if you&rsquo;re going to see correction
occur, healing occur, you&rsquo;re going to have to separate the belief
that they are evil men, or the belief of evilness, from the
individuality known as George Bush and the individuality known as Saddam
Hussein. If you do not make that distinction, we were talking about
distinction last week, if you do not make that distinction, then you
will proceed to get rid of evil men. And there&rsquo;s no correction in
that. And who&rsquo;s the deluded one?  You!

Now that doesn&rsquo;t mean that correction doesn&rsquo;t need to occur.
But understand that the way correction occurs is when you distinguish
between the Christ and whatever belief that Christ happens to have
succumbed to that is causing his perspective to be fearful and
defensive, and who finds force to be the only way to survive.

Now this applies equally to cancer, or any disease, or any sin that any
of you might be suffering from, or any of your friends might be.
Don&rsquo;t say, &ldquo;Oh, that poor soul!&rdquo; Say,
&ldquo;There&rsquo;s no poor soul there. There&rsquo;s the
Christ.&rdquo; What they&rsquo;re suffering from is a belief. The belief
is nothing more than magic. And the effects of that magic are nothing
more than illusion. They are not real and they have nothing whatsoever
to do with that individuality who is the Christ.

Now this you can do intellectually&mdash;consciously and intellectually.
Having done it, you can then without bias go within to ask God,
&ldquo;What needs to be known here? What is the healing element here
that will transform the appearance of a Christ suffering from ignorance?
How can I approach this Christ with peace and with Love that will
illuminate the Christ of that one, reminding him or her of the Truth
about himself or herself?&rdquo;

And it won&rsquo;t be quite so difficult as it is if you say,
&ldquo;He&rsquo;s an evil bastard. God, help me to forgive him for his
awfulness!&rdquo; You see? You&rsquo;re the one projecting the awfulness
onto him. You&rsquo;re adding that. That&rsquo;s a job to overcome to
have God to help you overcome the awfulness of his evilness, which is a
definition you&rsquo;ve provided.

It&rsquo;s much easier to recognize that the belief and the believer are
both illusions. And that right where a believer believing a belief that
he&rsquo;s suffering from seems to be is the unalterable, unchangeable,
eternal Christ. If you recognize that even just intellectually, you will
find that you have the means to approach and address this one in your
mind with genuine Love and genuine caring. And in extending that to him
or her, you know what you do? You claim that as being the Truth about
you, and you will not be so ready to succumb to your beliefs without
separating them from yourself, and recognizing that no matter what
beliefs you are believing, you are neither the believer or the belief.
You are the Christ, the direct and present Expression of God that cannot
in any way be altered in the slightest from What God Is Being right
where you are. It is this separation that allows for healing.

You see, it&rsquo;s very easy to look at others, especially in the
&ldquo;New Age&rdquo; and say, &ldquo;Well, he&rsquo;s created it for
himself.&rdquo; You see? You&rsquo;re saying that all that&rsquo;s there
is a believer believing a belief. You see? No possibility of healing
there. And if you approach that one as though he is a believer having a
belief that he needs to get rid of so he believes something new
that&rsquo;s more spiritual, you&rsquo;re still dealing with a believer.
You&rsquo;ve never cut through to the spiritual fact of him that
he&rsquo;s the Christ, absolutely incapable of ever having become a
believer with a belief that he&rsquo;s suffering from.

Now I don&rsquo;t mean for this to sound intellectually complicated, but
if you get this, it will be much easier for you to be miracle ready. And
it&rsquo;s closer to being miracle-minded, and it lays the way for a
sudden shift of perception to occur [snap of the fingers] much more
easily. You see?

If you want to experience a time collapse where there&rsquo;s
instantaneous healing, you&rsquo;re going to have to approach the one
needing healing, whether it&rsquo;s yourself or another, with some way
to cut through the confusion that keeps the bondage in place. And when
you realize that what will cut through it is the recognition that the
belief that this other one is suffering from is being entertained by a
non-existent presence called a believer, who is actually the Christ
temporarily unconscious of his Christhood, then you will forget about
the belief.  You will forget about whether that one has created itself
&hellip; created it for himself and deserves the consequences he or she
is experiencing, and you will address your attention to the Christ that
is there. And what happens? You negate the belief, the believer, and the
suffering, the consequences, and there&rsquo;s [snaps fingers] a time
collapse and you have what is called an instantaneous healing, or which
you call a sudden shift of perception. What cuts through it is the
capacity to recognize another&rsquo;s Innocence, primitive Innocence,
primordial Innocence.  Innocence from the beginning that could never be
altered.

You hear that there is an evil axis in your world. Oooh! And you have
the leaders of the three countries that constitute the evil axis and
they are evil. Wow! Well, you better get it straight right now. All
three of them are the Christ. All three of them are the direct
expression and embodiment of God, or Allah, or whatever name is used to
identify the Original and Omnipotent Creator of Existence. They are all
right now the Christ. And they are innocent. Their innocence is part of
the very embodiment of them that God is embodying at every moment just
like He is embodying it in you in every moment.

And so, you have to be practical, and you have to disallow acts of harm.
Sort of the same way you would restrain someone who was delirious and
flailing, but you would not believe that you were restraining evil. You
would just be restraining behavior arising out of misunderstanding, out
of beliefs that were acquired while one&rsquo;s back was to the Altar,
while one wasn&rsquo;t listening for God to reveal His Perception, His
Perspective, His Vision of His Creation, as it truly is.

So you restrain those whose inarticulate and awkward expression of
existence would bring harm, while not believing for a moment that they
are evil. You separate the belief and the believer from the
individuality. You acknowledge Who and What the Individuality can only
Be and you Love that. And you let God fill you with the means to convey,
to embody, to express the Love that God instills in you. Not that you
figure out with your best judgment will probably be the thing that will
help. You embody what you&rsquo;re infilled with to share so that a
sudden shift of perception can occur and healing, an experience of time
collapsed, can occur, so that it doesn&rsquo;t take years to change, or
years to refine your soul to a better, purer place. So that was the
second thing I wanted to share.

So let&rsquo;s go to the book.

Question.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
As we see with these new eyes facing the Altar and seeing the Christ, we
are also seeing ourselves as the Expression of the Father. When I see
and make the distinction in another who is afar&mdash;George W. Bush, Saddam
Hussein&mdash;where is the healing? Is it just one more person seeing the
Truth? How do we observe a healing? [^1]
</div>

How do we?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Observe the healing from afar. I only say that in perspective in that
we&rsquo;re not going to wake up the next morning and see a change in
behavior.
</div> 

To Love there is no distance

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay. But with my partner I can see something more clearly maybe than I
can with the individuals you&rsquo;ve &hellip;
</div>

Well let me put it this way. Tests have been made, and it has been shown
that a plant that is on a table in your own house that you give loving
attention to, that if you just sit there and look at it, appreciating
it, it responds. And if that plant is taken thirty miles or a hundred
miles away, and you sit in your house and think exactly the same loving
thoughts about it, it responds as though it were in your house.

Don&rsquo;t you believe for a moment that your Expression of Love toward
Christ George Bush, or Christ Saddam Hussein, isn&rsquo;t felt.
We&rsquo;ve talked before about the fact that there are no private
thoughts.

We&rsquo;ve talked about waging peace. You know what? I don&rsquo;t know
if anyone thought about it, but you can&rsquo;t wage peace as a defense.
It is like talking about dry water. You&rsquo;ve got to find in you some
way to recognize that Saddam Hussein is at this very moment the
undefiled, unaltered, direct Expression of God, and that anything else
is an overlay that either he is putting like a cloak over himself or
that you are putting like a cloak over him. And then take the cloak off.
That&rsquo;s your task: to find a way to take the cloak off so that you
can actually Love, and then turn to God and say, &ldquo;God, fill me
with the Love so that it fills me so full it overflows and blesses
everyone.&rdquo;

This isn&rsquo;t you using your mind to make something happen. This is
you letting God use your mind to make something happen. And that&rsquo;s
why you turn toward the Altar, because you don&rsquo;t know how to use
your mind to make something happen. Why? Because the you, you think you
are at the moment is a three-dimensional object, and the third dimension
is not where cause arises. That&rsquo;s why you turn toward the Altar so
that God can move through you, so that God can use your mind to find
expression quote &ldquo;in the dream,&rdquo; and thereby dissolve the
dream. Does that answer your question?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yes. Thank you.
</div>

You are welcome.

Okay. Actually we always start here. Let&rsquo;s start in the back.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*Special Principles of Miracle Workers*[^2]

The miracle abolishes the need for &hellip;
</div>

I&rsquo;m sorry. This is &hellip; if you&rsquo;ll as you read them, this
is Principle Number One.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[Principle Number 1] The miracle abolishes the need for lower-order
concerns.
</div> 

And just for clarity, &ldquo;lower-order&rdquo; would refer to the
three-dimensional frame of reference and the Kingdom of Heaven as it
appears to be seen through the three-dimensional frame, lens,
let&rsquo;s say.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Since it is an out-of-pattern time interval&hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; the miracle, that is &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the ordinary considerations of time and space do not apply.
</div>

Which is why there can be a collapse of time.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you perform a miracle, I will arrange both time and space to adjust
to it.
</div>

And how do you perform a miracle? By letting God use your mind to embody
His Purpose. Not because you have said, &ldquo;I am going to make a
miracle.&rdquo; You see? Okay.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[Principle Number 2] A clear distinction between what is created and
what is made is essential. All forms of healing rest on this fundamental
correction in level perception.
</div> 

[Editor&rsquo;s Note: Below Raj says: When I actually dictated this to
Helen in Principle Number Two I said, &ldquo;All forms of
correction,&rdquo; and then in parentheses, &ldquo;(healing) rest on
this fundamental correction in level perception.&rdquo;]
{: .omit}

Okay. And for additional clarity, a clear distinction between What Is
Created and what is made is essential. What Is Created is What God Has
Created. What is made are the modifications to What God Has Created that
we&rsquo;ve talked about during the last two weeks. What you make, what
you seem to be able to create, is nothing more than a modification of
What Actually Exists, and your modification isn&rsquo;t even eternal.

Okay. Microphone.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I asked a while back about DNA. So if there&rsquo;s these two people
standing there talking and all of the words and the vibrating of the
air, and all of that&rsquo;s God&rsquo;s Love. It&rsquo;s all Spirit.
And in their minds there&rsquo;s this perception, mutual agreements
about language, and the conversation&rsquo;s made in the midst of
Creation.
</div>

That is true.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So &hellip; and I get this, about a million years we were talking about,
you know, the last judgment. Isn&rsquo;t &hellip; since the development
of a tooth and a claw coming from a sense of lack, isn&rsquo;t
what&rsquo;s going on even though DNA is Spirit, isn&rsquo;t there
intent? Isn&rsquo;t a claw made? Isn&rsquo;t a tooth made versus
created?
</div>

No. What&rsquo;s made is the use it&rsquo;s put to. So shall birds and
sheep and frogs have toenails just like you? How boring. And how
exquisite the design if you look at each varied form as though it were a
work of art that is there for appreciation because it is so exquisite.
When you misperceive or give a strange definition to some part of
Creation, you do tend to cover up your capacity to discern and feel the
Meaning expressed as a tooth, or a claw, or a toenail. And I promise you
all, that there is nothing that is not glorious once you manage to
abandon the confidence you have in the definitions you have given to
claw and tooth and toenail.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
You&rsquo;ve got to look at the Altar to see.
</div>

That is correct. You have to look at the Altar to see them.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[Principle Number 3] Never confuse
right and wrong-mindedness. Responding to any form of error with
anything except a desire to heal is an expression of this confusion.
</div>

Exactly. It couldn&rsquo;t be stated any more clearly. Wrong-mindedness
is constituted of whatever goes on in your mind when your back is toward
the Altar and you have deprived yourself of the Father&rsquo;s
Perspective.  And right-mindedness is what you spontaneously experience
when you stop valuing your private perspective, and genuinely, and
humbly, and defenselessly, ask for the Father&rsquo;s Perspective.

When I actually dictated this to Helen, in Principle Number Two I said,
&ldquo;All forms of correction,&rdquo; and then in parentheses,
&ldquo;(healing) rest on this fundamental correction in level
perception.&rdquo;

Correction in its true meaning is healing. And when you turn to the
Father and you are filled with right-mindedness, every thought directed
to George Bush, every thought directed toward Saddam Hussein, and every
thought you direct toward your ugly self, will have as its intent
healing, because it&rsquo;s being extended to the Christ that the
Father&rsquo;s Perspective has revealed to you as them, and as yourself.
Amazing stuff.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[Principle Number 4] The miracle is always a denial of this error and
an affirmation of the truth. Only right-mindedness can correct in a way
that has any real effect.
</div>

And that is because right-mindedness originates from the level of Cause,
the Father&rsquo;s Mind, the Fourth-Dimensional Conscious Experience of
Being.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Pragmatically, what has no real effect has no real existence. Its
effect, then, is emptiness. Being without substantial content, it lends
itself to projection.
</div>

Okay.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Pragmatically, what has no real effect has no real existence. Its
effect, then, is emptiness.
</div>

Well, what about so-and-so who insulted you? What about so-and-so who
treated you raunchy? What about so-and-so who made your life miserable?
What about so-and-so who caused you great grief?

Well first of all, you see, if you&rsquo;re going to hold a grievance,
it means that you think they actually could have done something that
actually did hurt you. But I&rsquo;m telling you that if you want to
become free of the hurt that you say you have experienced, you are going
to have to make this distinction between the Christ who was standing
there all the time you were being treated grievously, and you&rsquo;re
going to have to separate the claim that their presence seemed to make
that there was a believer with a belief that he or she was suffering
from that caused him or her to behave in a way that harmed you. Because
if you cannot separate the innocent Christ from the false presentation,
if you can&rsquo;t separate the false presentation from the Christ,
you&rsquo;re not going to be able to see that what you thought they did
to you and what they thought they were doing to you, had to be magic and
had to be an illusion. And until you can see that, you can&rsquo;t see
that the suffering you have been experiencing is likewise an effect of
magic and an illusion that you have bought into by believing that
someone actually did some real magic.

Do you understand what I&rsquo;m saying? In your ability to make
distinction between the Christ and the false sense of self that seemed
to be overlaid on the Christ, until you can make that distinction, or
when you make that distinction, you have laid the groundwork for that
one to feel safe enough to allow a sudden shift of perception and you
have set yourself up for instantaneous release from the so-called damage
that you were suffering from. And so you experience instantaneous
healing as well.

Question.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So when you are saying &ldquo;No&rdquo; like we&rsquo;re saying
&ldquo;No&rdquo; to Saddam, you are saying &ldquo;No&rdquo; to the
belief and the believer.
</div>

That is correct.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
You&rsquo;re saying &ldquo;No&rdquo; because &hellip; and in any
situation that you need to say &ldquo;No,&rdquo; that&rsquo;s what
&hellip; you&rsquo;re saying &ldquo;No&rdquo; to the thing that is the
alteration of the Truth.
</div>

Exactly.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Not the person.
</div>

Exactly.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay.
</div>

And just saying &ldquo;No&rdquo; isn&rsquo;t enough. You say
&ldquo;No&rdquo; to the so-called believer and the beliefs that have
made the believer behave unlovingly.  But, you do that as a part of the
process of separating the believer and belief from the Christ and then
you be the Presence of Love toward the Christ. And if that seems to
involve a process of re-education, if it seems to involve an ongoing
process of extending Love, of embodying Love, toward that Christ, and
because it&rsquo;s Love finding that it comes out in a way that inspires
the Christ that that one is to come out of the closet, then you are…
then you&rsquo;re being an agent for change.

So it&rsquo;s not just a matter of saying &ldquo;No.&rdquo; It&rsquo;s
saying &ldquo;No&rdquo; and &ldquo;Yes.&rdquo; &ldquo;No&rdquo; to the
idea that there&rsquo;s an evil person. Separating the evilness from the
Christ that it&rsquo;s been associated with, and then giving full
attention, Brotherly attention, caring attention, persistent attention,
to the Christ that is standing there, knowing, as I&rsquo;ve said
before, that the Christ that is standing there is quite capable of
comprehending and feeling what is whole, and what is true, and what is
healthy, and what is loving.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So it would be like if you are in an argument, like in a group, and the
group is misbehaving, and it&rsquo;s &hellip; you&rsquo;re &hellip; and
you&rsquo;re a part of that. You all of a sudden realize, &ldquo;Wait a
minute! What are we doing here?!&rdquo; And you speak up and say,
&ldquo;No, I&rsquo;m not going to play this any more. We need to rethink
this.&rdquo; And then hold &hellip; hold on to that belief and refuse to
participate in the game. And by doing that, that&rsquo;s what will help.
</div> 

It will as long as you&rsquo;re not &hellip; do not think you&rsquo;re
talking to a bunch of contrary egos when you say, &ldquo;We need to
rethink this.&rdquo; You may be saying &ldquo;No&rdquo; to the contrary
egos, but when you say, &ldquo;We need to rethink this,&rdquo;
you&rsquo;ve got to know you&rsquo;re speaking to the Christ of each one
of them, to that which is of excellence in the middle of each one of
them, you see, so that in saying that you are honoring them. Something
which is very difficult for anyone to ignore. To be honored is something
all of you usually respond to well. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay.
</div> 

You aren&rsquo;t even saying &ldquo;No&rdquo; to them. You&rsquo;re
saying &ldquo;No&rdquo; to an illusion that everyone has succumbed to
thinking is real. You&rsquo;re saying &ldquo;No&rdquo; to what is
senseless.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Like a cultural belief that &hellip; you don&rsquo;t even know where
that came from but you&rsquo;ve gone along with it because that&rsquo;s
the way it always is, then all of a sudden something wakes you up to,
&ldquo;Wait a minute!&rdquo;
</div> 

Indeed.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay.
</div>

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
If you don&rsquo;t follow up the &ldquo;No&rdquo; with the
&ldquo;Yes,&rdquo; then the person would still likely associate
themselves with the part that made the &ldquo;No.&rdquo;
</div> 

That is correct.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay.
</div>

Yes. The &ldquo;No&rdquo; and the &ldquo;Yes&rdquo; better be
simultaneously present, else the &ldquo;No&rdquo; is nothing more than a
defense. It&rsquo;s that simple.

Let us continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[Principle Number 5] The level-adjustment power of the miracle induces
the right perception for healing.
</div> 

Which is exactly what we&rsquo;ve just been saying.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Until this has occurred healing cannot be understood. Forgiveness is an
empty gesture unless it entails correction.
</div> 

Indeed. Which is healing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Without this it is essentially judgmental, rather than healing.
</div>

Yes. Like we were talking about last week where it&rsquo;s a judgment
against something. Whereas Judgment is the distinction between What Is
Real and what is not, and choosing for the Real. Making the distinction
between What Is Of Value and what is valueless, and choosing for What Is
Value because what has become obviously valueless to you is something
not any part of you would hang on to any longer because you see that it
serves you in no way. Okay.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I have a question about forgiveness. And basically you said, it&rsquo;s
the judgment followed by the healing. First you discern, and then you
offer a healing.
</div> 

Forgiveness is really the withdrawal of judgment upon your Brother.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I don&rsquo;t mean that kind of judgment. I meant judgment as far as
discernment.
</div> 

Ask your question again.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay. Forgiveness is the process where first you discern What&rsquo;s
Real and what&rsquo;s not real, and then you offer a healing. Correct?
</div> 

Yes. Yes. You make the distinction between What Is Real and unreal, and
then you address What Is Real in the individual.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Mmm hmmm. Which is offering a healing.
</div>

Exactly. And that is an excellent way of describing forgiveness. Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay. And here&rsquo;s the thought that followed for me is that if you
are not in physical presence of the person that you&rsquo;re forgiving,
and since there are no private thoughts, can you then send a healing
when you turn towards the Altar?
</div> 

You can&rsquo;t help but send the healing

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Right. But you don&rsquo;t have to be in physical vicinity?
</div> 

Absolutely not.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay.
</div> 

And that doesn&rsquo;t constitute a personal power. It doesn&rsquo;t
constitute a means of control.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Right.
</div> 

The extension of Love is spontaneous because it fills you and overflows.
You can&rsquo;t contain it. And so not only the one you&rsquo;re
thinking about, but everyone else is blessed as well. And you&rsquo;ve
got to let Love do its work on its terms in the way that addresses the
ignorance of the one being Loved perfectly, in a way that allows for the
sudden shift of perception that can get in through the back door,
catching that one off guard so that there&rsquo;s [finger snap] a sudden
&ldquo;Aha!&rdquo;

I&rsquo;ve said before that the ego is nothing but a defense mechanism.
And so any time you inflict Love on anyone for their good, you can count
on it that they will be well-defended immediately to object to the
intrusion, to object to what they perceive to be an invasion of their
privacy, and an overriding of their free will. And mind you, your free
will is very important to all of you, although it&rsquo;s becoming less.

And so, you see, that&rsquo;s another reason it&rsquo;s important for
you not to think you know what Love is going to appear as so that you
can direct it in that way. Because Love has to find the back door, has
to find the place where there&rsquo;s a weak defense so that it can
sneak in, bringing Light where it was dark, and that person experiences
a light bulb going on.

You&rsquo;ve got to let Love do its work in its way and on its terms.
And you&rsquo;ve got to trust that the Father&rsquo;s Love is sufficient
to the need.

But you know what? You can&rsquo;t say, &ldquo;Father, please Love him.
Father, he needs Your Love.&rdquo; You&rsquo;ve got to become involved,
and you&rsquo;ve got to say, &ldquo;Father, show me how to Love
him.&rdquo; Because the Love has to be a gift in a relationship. It has
to be the manifestation of caring. It has to be the manifestation of
joining in Brotherhood for reasons of Brotherhood.

This globe, this planet is not going to arrive at peace and harmony
until the reasons everyone relates to each other are reasons of Love and
Brotherhood, to express and embody Brotherhood, so that everyone does
well because everyone cares about everyone else. Not because they
managed in the game of one-up-man-ship. You see?

Okay. Let us continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Can I ask one quick question?
</div> 

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
In &hellip; um &hellip;
</div> 

That wasn&rsquo;t quick enough. [audience laughter]

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
[laughing] In the job that I&rsquo;m doing now, this seems like this is
a very important thing to use, to practice. And I &hellip; am I correct?
</div> 

You are correct. And it is also a place where you will find it much
easier to practice it than any other place you&rsquo;ve been before.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yes. Right on. It hits the nail on the head. Thanks.
</div> 

You are welcome.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[Principle Number 6] Miracle-minded forgiveness is only correction. It
has no element of judgment at all. The statement &ldquo;Father forgive
them for they know not what they do&rdquo; in no way evaluates what they
do. It is an appeal to God to heal their minds.
</div> 

Yes. You see the &hellip; what they do, what they&rsquo;ve done, what
their reasons were, whether their suffering is deserved or not, all of
that is irrelevant to the correction. The correction is the result of
loving enough to ask that their belief and their sense of being the
believer of the belief be illuminated for the illusions they are so that
that one can come into a fuller Conscious Experience of their Christhood
and their God-given Sanity.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is no reference to the outcome of the error. That does not matter.
</div> 

How can there be an outcome to an error? How can there become &hellip;
how can there be an outcome to something that didn&rsquo;t happen? And I
mean that in the sense that if God didn&rsquo;t authorize it, nothing
happened. And if God did authorize it, it&rsquo;s obviously an aspect of
the Kingdom of Heaven that is perfect and awesome.

Now, if someone is attempting to do something that they cannot do, like
inflict harm, the fact that they are attempting to do it means they are
suffering some form of insanity, and that does require correction. You
can&rsquo;t say, &ldquo;He&rsquo;s not doing anything. What he thinks
he&rsquo;s doing is an illusion. Therefore, there&rsquo;s nothing I need
to do.&rdquo;

If you see somebody walking into a wall over and over, and a foot to the
left of him is an open doorway, you don&rsquo;t say, &ldquo;Oh. Well
just let him do it. He&rsquo;s not hurting anything.&rdquo; But
he&rsquo;s not managing to get where he&rsquo;s trying to go. So you go
over and you say, &ldquo;Hey! Move over a foot to your left.&rdquo;
Phoom! He walks through the wall. It doesn&rsquo;t matter why he was
ignorant enough to keep walking into the wall. It doesn&rsquo;t matter
&hellip; none of it matters. All that matters is correction is called
for so that he experiences his freedom, and his freedom to go where
he&rsquo;s wanting to go, and his freedom from an unnecessary block to
his getting there. You see?

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[Principle Number 7] The injunction &ldquo;Be of one mind&rdquo; is
the statement for revelation-readiness.
</div> 

And we&rsquo;ve talked about singleness of mind, singleness of purpose,
and that when you become unconfused and undistracted and your intent is
pure because there&rsquo;s nothing extraneous to it, at the moment that
that intent is pure it is done. The intent is done. Time does not stand
in the way of the manifestation of that intent. That is what this means.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
My request &ldquo;Do this in remembrance of me&rdquo; is the appeal for
cooperation from miracle workers. The two statements are not in the same
order of reality. Only the latter involves an awareness of time, since
to remember is to recall the past in the present. Time is under my
direction, but timelessness belongs to God. In time we exist for and
with each other. In timelessness we coexist with God.
</div> 

Indeed. In time we exist, mind you, not just with each other, but for
and with each other. In timelessness, we coexist with God. If you want
to get to the timeless coexistence with God, you&rsquo;ve got to fulfill
the function of consciously being not only with, but for, present on
behalf of each other. That&rsquo;s the way you break the isolation.
That&rsquo;s the way you break the sense of the presence of a believer
having to believe something because the Experience of What Everything
Is, is temporarily unavailable to you because you&rsquo;ve turned your
back on the Altar.

The simple answer is Love. The simple answer is Love. And for the last
five or six weeks we&rsquo;ve been very specifically speaking about how
to release fear. Why? So that nothing blocks your ability to stand in
receipt of the Father&rsquo;s Love and extend it to your Brother, thus
breaking the illusion of separation and causing you to be extremely
susceptible to waking up. You will not be able to get to the timeless
coexistence with God until you&rsquo;re willing to be present now,
existing for and with each other.

Microphone over here.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I&rsquo;m really asking for the words to express this. It seems for a
while I have been witness to many working hard at unsuccessful
relationships.  And so when I hear what you just said, &ldquo;that we
exist in time for each other,&rdquo; the first thing that comes to mind
are all those who are having unsuccessful relationships. Meaning
relationships with those who do not wish to make commitments in any kind
of a relationship, who stand firm &hellip;
</div> 

No, I beg your pardon.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
&hellip; in the claim of independence &hellip;
</div> 

I beg your pardon.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
&hellip; as far as I see it.
</div> 

There is a willingness to make commitment to relationships, but on the
condition that the one they&rsquo;re in relationship with, or that they
make commitment to, is going to be there for them. In other words, if I
want to be in a relationship with you so that I can get what you have
for me because we&rsquo;re supposed to be here for each other, I want
you to be here for me. That&rsquo;s not &hellip; that&rsquo;s got it
backwards.

I&rsquo;m here for you whether you&rsquo;re here for me or not. I am
here for all of you whether you&rsquo;re here for me or not. And I will
continue to be here for you until you recognize that I&rsquo;m here for
you and arrive at a point of saying, &ldquo;Wow! How incredible! And he
doesn&rsquo;t ask for anything back as a condition for being here for
me, although he does want something.&rdquo; I do want something from
you, but that&rsquo;s not a &hellip; my getting it is not a condition of
my being here for you.

When you want to be in a relationship so that you have the opportunity
to be there for someone else, it causes you to be very, very attractive.
So attractive that you will find those who want to get coming to your
doorstep, those who want to get without giving. And so you will have to
be alert not to be used, and you will have to discern, make a
distinction between those who want to be in a relationship with you in
order to get, and those who want to be in a relationship with you
because they find you desirable and who want to give you, be there for
you, and then choose well. Choose for What Is Valuable. And choose not
for that which is valueless.

The key in every case to unsuccessful relationships is when one or both
of the partners have moved to a selfish getting standpoint and insist
upon operating from there. And that&rsquo;s the bottom line of the
distress on your globe at the moment. And it is calling for Brotherly
Love to be expressed in ways that allow for the innate dignity of those
behaving like ignorant bastards to be illuminated and magnified, so that
those behaving badly can feel like it&rsquo;s safe to act with respect.
The resolution will occur when everyone wins. Everyone wins.

Now, there are really only seven Special Principles of Miracle Workers.
The eighth one here appears in a part of the original Course that no
longer appears in the Course at all, but it was felt to be worth keeping
and so it was, like pin the tail on the donkey, added here. [audience
amusement]

[Editor&rsquo;s Note: In the above paragraph, the &ldquo;original
Course&rdquo; refers to the Urtext version of the Course. The missing
section referred to is, &ldquo;True Rehabilitation,&rdquo; and it is in
the Urtext Text, the HLC Text, and the &ldquo;Sparkly Book.&rdquo; The
section, &ldquo;True Rehabilitation,&rdquo; does not appear in the
published first and second editions of the Course (except the last
paragraph of the section, see below). Note also that Raj will discuss
the &ldquo;True Rehabilitation&rdquo; section on September 7, 2003 when
he is reading from the &ldquo;Sparkly Book.&rdquo; ]

I am not going to say that we&rsquo;re not going to read it because it
wasn&rsquo;t said here. We&rsquo;re going to read it because it does
fit. And you&rsquo;ll find .  . . Well, let&rsquo;s read it.

Who has the microphone? Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
What a privilege.
</div> 

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[Principle Number 8] You can do much on behalf of your own healing and that of
others if, in a situation calling for help, you think of it this way:

&ldquo;I am here only to be truly helpful. I am here to represent Him
Who sent me. I do not have to worry about what to say or what to do,
because He Who sent me will direct me. I am content to be wherever He
wishes, knowing He goes there with me. I will be healed as I let Him
teach me to heal.&rdquo;
</div> 

Indeed. Now, it can&rsquo;t help but be clearer to you than ever before
that this is not a wonderful string of words with positive ideas for you
to run through your mind. These words are literal. These words are
literal.

You are here only to be truly helpful, because that&rsquo;s your divine
Function. You are here to represent Him, with a capital &ldquo;H&rdquo;,
Who sent you. Well, you don&rsquo;t really have any other choice than to
be the direct Expression of God embodying God. You can indulge in magic
thoughts and fool yourself into believing that you are here to represent
yourself.  But it doesn&rsquo;t make it true. You are the direct
Expression of God, and nothing else.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I do not have to worry about what to say or what to do, because He Who
sent me will direct me.
</div> 

And that&rsquo;s not in the by-and-by, you know. We&rsquo;re talking
about listening, turning toward the Altar now, and hearing the
Father&rsquo;s Voice now, hearing your Guide&rsquo;s Voice now, hearing
the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s direction now really in a real event here today.
You see? Not airy-fairy wonderful, pink cloud, fluffy ideas.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I am content &hellip;

I am content to be wherever He wishes&hellip;
</div> 

[laughing] It is sort of amusing, isn&rsquo;t it? It&rsquo;s really
foolish not to be content with where &hellip; with being wherever the
Father is being you. [laughing a lot] Do you have any other choice than
to be where He is being you?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I am content to be wherever He wishes, knowing He goes there with me.
</div> 

You could say: Knowing He goes me there. [audience laughing] Which means
you&rsquo;re not alone.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I will be healed as I let Him teach me to heal.
</div> 

Yes. You see, this is all literal. It&rsquo;s all wonderfully literal.
It&rsquo;s meat and potatoes. Not pie in the sky after you die.

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So if I refuse to do anything at all when I&rsquo;m with my Brother or
Sister except one thing, and that is to see the Christ standing right
smack dab before me, then that&rsquo;s like what you&rsquo;ve been
saying and what I&rsquo;ve been understanding. A very real and very
clear distinction behind &hellip; between what I see and how
they&rsquo;re behaving. Is that right?
</div> 

Between what you see?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Between the Christ that I see and how they&rsquo;re behaving, which is
nine times &hellip; ninety-nine times out of a hundred, probably with
all of their, you know, historical reactions and beliefs, and so forth,
and so on, that&rsquo;s really not representative of the Christ That
They Are.
</div> 

And what is the question?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
It&rsquo;s like a reaffirmation that I&rsquo;m giving back to you of
what you&rsquo;ve been saying to us.
</div> 

Yes. That is correct.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And from like an experiential point of view, if I remove myself like
from my thinking part, and I just refuse to see anything but the Christ
in them from an experiential point &hellip;
</div> 

You refuse to see anything but whatever it is God reveals to you. I
don&rsquo;t even want you to start doing a string of words. You know,
&ldquo;I only want to see the Christ there.&rdquo;

You can say very practically, &ldquo;I am able to recognize, because at
the bottom line I know it&rsquo;s true about me, that I am more than my
thoughts.  And I am more than my beliefs, because my beliefs can change,
but I don&rsquo;t. Therefore, because I am not my beliefs, my beliefs
and their results cannot identify me. Because I see that about myself, I
can look at my Brother and reason clearly that he is not his beliefs,
and he doesn&rsquo;t deserve the suffering he is experiencing from his
beliefs, therefore, I see them separate. I am able to make a distinction
between the two, and on the basis of that distinction I choose to ask
God how to be with the unchangeable Christ that is there, so that he
might be released from suffering beliefs that he thinks he&rsquo;s the
believer of, together with his freedom from his belief that he&rsquo;s
the believer of them.&rdquo; You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yes, and I would definitely like to be with What&rsquo;s Real with me
and be with What&rsquo;s Real with my Brother and Sister.
</div> 

Yes. And then having acknowledged what I just said, you turn to the
Father and say, &ldquo;Fill me with Love. Fill me with Your Vision. Fill
me with Your Perspective, so that I might be overflowingly filled with
it, and my Brother is blessed, the Christ that is standing there. Show
me how to be with him. And if his sudden shift of perception isn&rsquo;t
instantaneous, help me to keep my attention on the Christ That He Is,
while we be together in an educational &hellip; a lovingly educational,
healing process.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I&rsquo;ll stay with that clear distinction with my own awareness and my
own willingness to stay with that clear distinction between Christ in my
Brother and Sister and their &hellip; and their behavior.
</div> 

Indeed.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I&rsquo;ll have Guidance, won&rsquo;t I?
</div> 

Yes, you will.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And it&rsquo;ll be so much &hellip; it&rsquo;ll be a heck of a lot
easier for me to be appropriate with their behavior without me lapsing
into a state of blah, blah, blah, fear of what&rsquo;s up &hellip; you
know, whatever I might be inclined to &hellip;
</div> 

And there will be a lot more quietness on your globe, because there will
be a lot less grapevine gossip and malicious gossip, and any kind of
gossip going on. And when you do open your mouths, something beautiful
and of substance will emerge.

And as Paul can tell you, when he opens his mouth and shares what he is
hearing, there&rsquo;s no way to feel egotistical about it. And
it&rsquo;s as natural as apple pie, and so it doesn&rsquo;t seem like
you&rsquo;re doing anything great. But it is meaningful, and it does
have substance. And the result will not be a sort of cotton candy,
insubstantial bliss that everyone is in because they&rsquo;re speaking
meaningfully and there is harmony. If something has substance to it, it
has significant meaning to it. And significant meaning is experienced as
vital. And there is a great deal of joy that is experienced in the
vitality of the substantiality of the ideas finding expression.

So there&rsquo;s nothing else to say tonight.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Well, can you &hellip;
</div> 

I have enjoyed being with you.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So have I, of course.
</div>

Okay.

[^1]: Students commenting or asking a question.
[^2]: T2.V.A Special Principles for Miracle Workers

