---
title: Apr 3, 2003
ref: T3.I Atonement without Sacrifice
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who is also joining us on the
internet.

Last week I mentioned that each of you is the salvation of the world and
that I might ask you how you did in that respect this week. I&rsquo;m
not going to do that. [a little audience laughter] You&rsquo;re off the
hook.

But you might ask, &ldquo;How can I be the salvation of the world? What
am I supposed to do?&rdquo; And the simple answer is you might pray for
the world.  You might pray for key figures, let us say, in situations
occurring in the world. You might pray for a particular part of your
body that doesn&rsquo;t seem to be reflecting God or God&rsquo;s
Purpose. And then we might ask, &ldquo;Well, how do you pray? What is
the right way to pray?&rdquo; And actually we&rsquo;ve been talking
about it for some weeks now.

True prayer is when you abandon what you think you want, what you think
you need, when you abandon the thoughts you have about your wants and
needs and go within and turn toward the Altar. To what? Inquire of God
What The Truth Is. And then listen without interjecting anything in the
process. Listen.

If it&rsquo;s the Father&rsquo;s good pleasure to give you the Kingdom,
which means withhold nothing from you, then you can count on it that any
genuine inquiry you extend to God will be answered. The fact is that the
answer is always being given. But by virtue of bringing your attention
to the point of listening for the answer opens your mind to the receipt
of the answer.

Now, when you get the answer, when clarification occurs, you can say,
&ldquo;Oh wow! This is a wonderful bit of information.&rdquo; Having
received the answer doesn&rsquo;t automatically mean that you embrace
the answer and let it change you. So ultimately true prayer, and I said
this a number of years ago, is saying &ldquo;Yes&rdquo; to God.
It&rsquo;s not asking for something. It&rsquo;s not asking God to change
a situation or do something for you. It&rsquo;s to listen
unconditionally, undefendedly within in the quietness of your Being. In
other words, turning toward the Altar and desiring to know the Truth.
Listening, standing in receipt of it, and then saying &ldquo;Yes.&rdquo;
In other words, agreeing. Because when you make agreement, you make a
commitment.  You make commitment.

So, prayer is saying &ldquo;Yes&rdquo; to God. What I want to have be
unmistakable to every single one of you is that when you say
&ldquo;Yes&rdquo; to God having inquired, having listened, and having
heard, you abandon independence and you join with God, and as I&rsquo;ve
said before, One with God is a majority. When there is only one Will
finding expression in your partnership with God and it&rsquo;s
God&rsquo;s Will, there is power. You become an agent for change.
It&rsquo;s not a personal, private power. But it&rsquo;s the Power of
God being unequivocally Himself in all of His Integrity that finds no
resistance to its embodiment in you, and so it becomes embodied.
It&rsquo;s spontaneous. It&rsquo;s automatic. It&rsquo;s actual.

And so the Brother you wanted to know the Truth about, the kidney, or
the heart, or the circulatory system that you wanted to know the Truth
about, you know the Truth about and healing results.

Do not &hellip; do not under any circumstances think that realization of
the Truth is something that will only happen in your mind. When it
happens in your mind and your mind is not imbued with a sense of
personal, private independent authority, the Authority of God is what is
embodied. And therefore, God is not blocked from expression. I would
encourage all of you at least once a day to sit down to love your world,
to want to know the Truth about it so that you might say
&ldquo;Yes&rdquo; to God and have the embodiment of His Will objectively
manifested in the world.  Because when you bring your undivided
willingness to Him, that is what happens. His Will becomes embodied, and
healing occurs. What is healing?  Healing is the revealing of
God&rsquo;s Intent in His Creation, where it had been escaping your
attention because you had given your own definitions to it.

So, when the ego suggests to you, &ldquo;What can you do? You&rsquo;re
just one among billions?&rdquo;, now you know that you have the capacity
to be an agent for change by saying &ldquo;Yes&rdquo; to God.

What happens when you turn toward the Altar? You have the Experience of
Knowing the Truth, and you have the Experience of the Truth making you
free. Ye shall know the Truth and the Truth shall make you free. Not
that you will know a truth and rehearse it in your mind, but you will
become still enough to inquire of God as to What Truth Is, and in the
inspiration, in the infilling of Truth that occurs, you will find
yourself knowing it and then you will say &ldquo;Yes.&rdquo; And it will
be embodied because that&rsquo;s the way it works.

Okay.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Good evening, Raj. Are there other dynamics that might &hellip; we might
be called to share with the greater body? I speak specifically of
life-force, chi coming accumulative to possibly serve the difficulties
in the Middle East. A draining of energy, a loss of focus on an
individual basis. As we turn to the Altar, can we be called
unconsciously to be sharing our life-force, if you will, for healing? Is
there a sensation of loss of maybe grounding, not peace, but grounding?
Is there another dynamic that might be going on that we might be
experiencing but not identifying correctly?[^1]
</div> 

Absolutely not. Your question suggests that you are a body.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Part of a body, the body of Christ.
</div> 

But when you speak of your energy, you are speaking of a private energy,
an energy that&rsquo;s peculiar to you. There&rsquo;s only one Energy
and it is Infinite. It is the Energy of Spirit, and the Energy of Spirit
is Love.  And Love is God. Love is Infinite. And that Energy can&rsquo;t
be spent. You cannot be depleted. And when you&rsquo;re joined with the
Father, you no longer have a sense of private, separate beingness that
can be energized or depleted. You don&rsquo;t need to call the energy
chi, or anything else.  It&rsquo;s Love&mdash;plain, pure and simple.
Love is the Substance of Everything.  Everything you are experiencing is
pure Energy, whether you call it glass, or carpet, or skin, it&rsquo;s
Energy. It is Spirit, not matter. And the Substance of It is Love
embodying perfectly what the Father is being right there in the Movement
of Being Creation.

So, no. You will not find yourself becoming ungrounded at all, or
depleted in any way, unless you decide that having turned toward the
Altar and having gotten filled up with quote &ldquo;the Truth,&rdquo;
you turn your back to the Altar and try to take it out to everyone you
see who needs the Truth, without realizing that the reason they
&ldquo;need the Truth&rdquo; is because you are looking at them on your
own, still with your own definitions, and seeing them through the lens
of fear, because you cannot have your back to the Altar without
experiencing fear and without misinterpreting everything you see.

Many individuals play with the idea that turning to the Altar is like
dipping a candle into wax in the process of making a candle. And you dip
it in, and then you pull it out of the wax and let the new coating
harden and the candle is more than it was before. And so they dip
themselves in Love and Truth, and then they come out from it and they
bring to those poor souls that they see, which they see because
they&rsquo;re not looking with God. Then they will find themselves
depleted and will need to go back for another dip. You see?

No. When you put leaven in bread and it performs its function, it
doesn&rsquo;t wear itself out. And a little bit of leaven leavens the
whole Brotherhood. A little bit of Love experienced unequivocally and
without bias and admitted to, embraced, blesses the whole Brotherhood.
And it doesn&rsquo;t deplete you at all because it&rsquo;s not a
personal possession of a particular form occupying a certain amount of
space. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Thank you.
</div> 

You are welcome.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Could I just add a &hellip; Many I&rsquo;ve spoken with are experiencing
a floating, overwhelming reaction to what&rsquo;s going on. Not knowing
maybe the Truth, that&rsquo;s the problem. Is this sensation the turning
away from the Altar? Is this kind of &hellip;
</div> 

It happens when you try to gather the facts of being from the way things
appear when you have your back to the Altar. Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So a sensation of turning your back to the Altar, the &hellip;
</div> 

That is correct.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Thank you.
</div> 

Yes, you must watch for the tendency to become infatuated with the
awfulness of things. Your movies, your television programs have
conditioned you to &ldquo;enjoy&rdquo; the stimulation of
violence&mdash;car crashes, explosions, wild hair-raising chases, cars
flipping over and over, things that cannot even happen in real life. And
there is an infatuation with stimulation.

Right now you could say that there is a lot of quote &ldquo;reality
TV&rdquo; unquote being broadcast on your televisions. And it is quite
stimulating because it&rsquo;s &ldquo;real.&rdquo; It&rsquo;s not
pre-recorded. It&rsquo;s not staged. It&rsquo;s quote &ldquo;real
life&rdquo; unquote. And it&rsquo;s a rather violent, and in that sense,
visually stimulating experience. If you are going to try to gather the
facts of being from what is presented, you are going to experience
ungroundedness. You are going to find yourself blown emotionally one way
and then another because you don&rsquo;t have an anchor. And the only
way you&rsquo;re going to find an anchor is if you pull back from your
infatuation and your tendency to find out what&rsquo;s going on, in
other words, gather the facts of being from what you&rsquo;re seeing, so
that in the quietness within you, you might inquire, &ldquo;What is
really going on here?&rdquo;, so that you&rsquo;re not stimulated by the
definitions you&rsquo;ve given to everything or that you&rsquo;ve been
taught to see.

What you will see on the TV is a call for Love, a call for the Conscious
Experience of Truth in you. When you recognize that&rsquo;s what it is,
then turn away from the TV and go within so that you might know the
Truth, agree with It, make commitment to It and be out from that clarity
within you.

Okay. We will begin in the Text.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The innocence of God is the true state of the mind of His Son. In this
state your mind knows God, for God is not symbolic; &hellip;[^2]
</div> 

If God was symbolic you could only think about God, or have an opinion
about God. But in this state of mind, in this state your mind knows God.
It&rsquo;s a direct experience. And not only that. The experience
reveals to you that it is your natural state of being. So you have
learned from knowing God that You are the Presence of God when you get
your personal little sense of yourself out of the way and let Him be all
there is right where you are.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Should I read that sentence again?
</div> 

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In this state your mind knows God, for God is not symbolic; He is Fact.
Knowing His Son as he is&hellip;
</div> 

Meaning that now that you&rsquo;ve experienced yourself as you are and
have had this insightful, inspirational revelation.

Go on &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Knowing His Son as he is, you realize that the Atonement, not sacrifice,
is the only appropriate gift for God&rsquo;s altar, where nothing except
perfection belongs.
</div> 

Or can be. Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The understanding of the innocent is truth. That is why their altars are
truly radiant.
</div> 

Their Altars are truly radiant because they&rsquo;re not introducing
anything that covers up and dims the radiance.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*Miracles as True Perception*

I have stated that the basic concepts referred to in this course are not
matters of degree. Certain fundamental concepts cannot be understood in
terms of opposites. It is impossible to conceive of light and darkness
or everything and nothing as joint possibilities. They are all true or
all false. It is essential that you realize your thinking will be
erratic until a firm commitment to one or the other is made.
</div> 

And this is why I said that prayer is saying &ldquo;Yes&rdquo; to God.
Until you say &ldquo;Yes&rdquo; to God, your thinking will be erratic,
ungrounded, rudderless.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
A firm commitment to darkness or nothingness, however, is impossible. No
one has ever lived who has not experienced some light and some thing. No
one, therefore, is able to deny truth totally, even if he thinks he can.
</div> 

Now, if you&rsquo;re the direct Expression of God, the Son or Daughter
of God, and you have chosen to have a daydream, you have chosen to use
your imagination to conceive of something that God has not created. You
can create for yourself a fantasy, a daydream, and in this daydream you
can imagine that you are not connected with God. You can imagine that
you are an independent free agent. But you know what? You couldn&rsquo;t
have this fantasy without being the direct Expression of God. Something
real about you has to be engaged in the fantasy, in creating the
fantasy. So no matter how definite you become about seeing yourself as
independent from God, you have to use your God-given ability to be
conscious to do it.  You see? So there&rsquo;s no way for you to become
totally ignorant of God.  There&rsquo;s no way for you to not be
experiencing some of What Truth Is. You see?

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Innocence is not a partial attribute. It is not real until it is total.
The partly innocent are apt to be quite foolish at times. It is not
until their innocence becomes a viewpoint with universal application
that it becomes wisdom.
</div> 

This is not to say that spurts of the experience of innocent are not
valuable. It just means that you are apt to be quite foolish at times
and at other times you are apt to be quite wise. And the moments of
wisdom that you experience reveal to you more of What Is True of you so
that it becomes easier for you to think of yourself in that more
enlightened way and thus give more frequent permission.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Innocent or true perception means that you never misperceive and always
see truly. More simply, it means that you never see what does not exist,
and always see what does.
</div> 

Yes. I&rsquo;m going to share with you a statement that will help to
make things clearer here. The statement is that, &ldquo;I, Jesus, beheld
the perfect man where sinning mortal man appeared to mortals.&rdquo; In
other words, where those whose backs were to the Altar were seeing
sinning mortal men, the Sons and Daughters of God, but seeing them as
sinning mortal men, he saw the perfect man because he (I) did not have
my back to the Altar and this correct view of man healed the sick, was
transformational.

I bring this out to tie it in with my opening statements as to how you
can be the salvation of the world. When you see the Truth where
erroneous delusional experiences seem to be going on, the result is
healing. And it&rsquo;s your job to make the choice for that. It&rsquo;s
your work to make the choice for that. It&rsquo;s your nature to do that
naturally. And all I&rsquo;m trying to do is help inspire you to come
back into that which is natural to you, even though it seems to you like
an effort.

How will you arrive at a point where you never see what does not exist
and always see what does? Only by having come to a point where you
choose only to see what does truly exist, turning to God for the vision,
standing in receipt of it and saying &ldquo;Yes&rdquo; to it, making
commitment to Truth.

It&rsquo;s interesting, you can&rsquo;t come back into your Right Mind
until you&rsquo;re willing to see your world truly. You see that? You
can&rsquo;t wake up without blessing the world. You can&rsquo;t see
truly until you care enough about your fellowman to want to know the
Truth about him so that you&rsquo;re no longer confused. Isn&rsquo;t
that a wonderful way for salvation and Atonement to be set up?
It&rsquo;s impossible for it to be an act of selfishness. Waking up
requires that you join with your Brother on your Brother&rsquo;s behalf,
witnessing for your Brother or Sister. And it&rsquo;s so simple. You
could call it an exquisite, divine mechanism.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you lack confidence in what someone will do, you are attesting to
your belief that he is not in his right mind.
</div> 

Again, when you lack confidence in what someone will do, you are
attesting to your belief that he is not in his Right Mind. You are
making commitment to your belief, which means you are not even in
relationship with him. You&rsquo;re having your own private experience
in which you are pretending that you&rsquo;re having a relationship.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Is that because you assume something before it happens?
</div> 

Absolutely.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay. You&rsquo;re judging it before it even happens because you
don&rsquo;t know.
</div> 

That is correct. But you&rsquo;re also choosing to come to a conclusion
without ever connecting with your Brother. And in not connecting with
your Brother, you&rsquo;re withholding yourself from a relationship. And
it&rsquo;s only in relationship that caring can occur.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is hardly a miracle-based frame of reference.
</div> 

Indeed. And that sentence should cause some laughter to come from you.
[slight scattered audience laughter] This is hardly a miracle-based
frame of reference.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It also has the disastrous effect of denying the power of the miracle.
</div> 

Yes. Because there&rsquo;s no joining. There&rsquo;s not enough caring
to connect and having a real experience of relationship before coming to
a conclusion. And because you are having confidence in what the other
one will do based on your own judgments, you&rsquo;re not available to
relate to him or her based on what the Father has revealed to you about
him or her. And you do not have available to you the Love that the
Father has for him or her to be inspired by yourself to the point of
overflowing so that it&rsquo;s extended to your Brother or your Sister.
And without that, there&rsquo;s no miracle.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The miracle perceives everything as it is. If nothing but the truth
exists, right-minded seeing cannot see anything but perfection.
</div> 

Right. If nothing but the Truth exists. Well, nothing but the Truth does
exist. I keep saying that you are confronted always and only by the
Kingdom of Heaven because there&rsquo;s nothing else going on and
therefore there is nothing else in your face. If you want to see the
Kingdom of Heaven that&rsquo;s going on, you&rsquo;re going to have to
abandon your commitment to the definition you&rsquo;ve given to it, and
inquire and be infilled, and then say &ldquo;Yes&rdquo; to the
infilling. You have to actually do something to get past the definitions
you&rsquo;ve been employing.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I have said that only what God creates or what you create with the same
Will has any real existence. This, then, is all the innocent can see.
They do not suffer from distorted perception.
</div> 

Yes. And wouldn&rsquo;t it be wonderful if you were able to think about
yourselves as innocents (c-e-n-t-s), in innocence, ones who are
innocent. Well, not looking at you through your eyes, I see that you are
all innocent. Because no matter what you think, you really haven&rsquo;t
succeeded at being more or less than What God Is Being right where each
one of you is right at this moment.

Love is the willingness to recognize that which is Real in each and
every thing, that which is Divinely Real. Are you willing to see That
Which Is Real in everyone you know? It requires a willingness to Love.
Are you really willing to Love everyone you know?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I believe that I am. However, I just believe that I am, and here comes a
&ldquo;yes but.&rdquo; And this is my experience of my birthright and my
experience of the birthright that everyone in this room and everyone
who&rsquo;s listening, everyone in the world, but my own habits of
thinking, my own reactions, my own fears, my own sense of judgment of
the situation or any situation is a cloud. So &hellip; that&rsquo;s not
good.
</div> 

And so all of you, all of you do have individuals in your life that you
have reluctance to be willing to Love. Well, you need healing from that.
So for yourself, for yourself be willing to ask the Father to show you
the Truth about that one so that you aren&rsquo;t blocked from being
able to extend and embody God&rsquo;s Love more clearly in the world.

&ldquo;Oh, but I&rsquo;ve been hurt too much by that one. And blah,
blah, blah.&rdquo; [audience amusement] But you know what? When
you&rsquo;re blocking your capacity to embrace with Love, you are
causing a hurt in yourself all by yourself and you need to be free of
that.

You know what? Right where every single individual is, is a Divine One
so beautiful and so perfect and so much the Embodiment of Love that you
deserve to be experiencing it even if that one doesn&rsquo;t know it
about himself or herself yet.

You know what? If you&rsquo;re going to be the salvation of the world,
you&rsquo;ve got to be willing to anchor God in the world by choosing to
get past your unwillingness to see the Truth there. &ldquo;Well, if I do
that and I become defenseless, I&rsquo;ll just get hurt again.&rdquo;
No. Being filled with Love and the Vision of the perfection of your
Brother or Sister does not cause you to become ungrounded, foolish, or
stupid. And so, if your Brother or Sister continues to behave as though
they are not the perfection you see, you will recognize it. And without
judging them for it, you will not cooperate with their point of view.
And so you will not get hurt again, and you will not find yourself used.
And because you know the Truth, you will stick with it with commitment.
And that commitment on behalf of your Brother or Sister will constitute
a witnessing for them that will cause yielding to the Truth to occur in
them. And if it takes a while, it won&rsquo;t bother you because
it&rsquo;s your pleasure to give them the true perception of them over
and over and over again until they finally get it.

Okay. Let&rsquo;s continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I have a statement. What I&rsquo;ve noticed in my own life that has
gotten in the way before of wanting to fully know and to fully love
another person is all the little fears: fears of losing something, fears
of the form of the relationship changing, fears of appearing foolish or
thinking that you would appear foolish or that somehow you would be
attacked, or all those &hellip; all those little fears that come from
the sense of the little &ldquo;I.&rdquo; The little, you know, person
that&rsquo;s, you know, split off.
</div> 

The self it feels like you are when you have your back turned toward the
Altar.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yes. Correct. And I notice in my own life as I stop being afraid of
losing something, as that becomes less important to me than being
aligned with God &hellip;
</div> 

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
&hellip; as I stop being afraid, then it becomes irrelevant to me if the
person chooses to walk away, or chooses to react however they react to
my standing with the Truth. It&rsquo;s almost like I develop an endless
patience that comes with the Love and not being afraid what the form may
or may not look like as a result of what I put forth.
</div> 

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
It&rsquo;s not being afraid any more. Not being afraid of things
changing. Not being afraid of losing somebody.
</div> 

And being free of the fear, your capacity to on the spot respond with
the clarity of God&rsquo;s Mind, will allow you to be utterly
appropriate. And so, if someone is leaving and it&rsquo;s not
appropriate for them to leave, you will be able to express the clarity
of what the Father&rsquo;s Will is in that circumstance. In other words,
to not be afraid of form changing, to not be afraid of someone
abandoning you or leaving doesn&rsquo;t mean that you will say
&ldquo;yes&rdquo; to everything that happens. But in the absence of the
fear, God&rsquo;s Grounded Clarity and your having a Divine Rudder will
allow you to say &ldquo;Good-bye&rdquo; or &ldquo;Wait a minute!&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
But it all comes from being aligned so you know how to respond.
</div> 

Exactly. Exactly.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You are afraid of God&rsquo;s Will because you have used your own mind,
which He created in the likeness of His Own, to miscreate.
</div> 

There you go. You see? The Son or Daughter of God has to be present and
Real in order for you to miscreate a fantasy that you can commit
yourself to and thereby enter into a state of apparent insanity. But all
the time that which is energizing it is something utterly Real&mdash;the
Son or Daughter of God That You Are.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The mind can miscreate only when it believes it is not free. An
&ldquo;imprisoned&rdquo; mind is not free because it is possessed, or
held back, by itself.
</div> 

Indeed. By itself. Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is therefore limited, and the will is not free to assert itself. To
be one is to be of one mind or will. When the Will of the Sonship and
the Father are one, their perfect accord is Heaven.
</div> 

Ah. There&rsquo;s your definition of Heaven. When the Will of the
Sonship and the Father are One, their perfect accord is Heaven. And that
perfect accord is what you experience as being embodied and so it is
what you experience as a healed world, as a healed body, as harmony and
peace on earth. That&rsquo;s not the ultimate, but that&rsquo;s an
unavoidable step in the process of waking up. And it&rsquo;s why I keep
homing in on the fact that [laughing] it is part of the insanity to
think that you can become spiritually clear without having the
manifestation of healing.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So if you don&rsquo;t have the manifestation of healing, then you
weren&rsquo;t clear.
</div> 

That is absolutely correct. Absolutely correct. Write that down and put
it on your refrigerator, because until you accept that, your
spirituality is ungrounded.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay. So in an example of a personal relationship with someone, if you
see a call for Love and you ask to see the other truly, and then you
respond, while you&rsquo;re turning towards the Altar you respond, there
would have to be a healing manifested.
</div> 

That is correct.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So if you continue to see a call for Love, then you didn&rsquo;t get it.
</div> 

That is correct.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay. Okay, I got that.
</div> 

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay, so this is what I notice. First there&rsquo;s an upsettedness. So
someone says something or does something or whatever, and you feel your
button pushed. Okay then time goes, you know, so then you may, you know,
what happens sometimes if it really gets pushed, you may just be in that
hurt for a while. &ldquo;Oh! I&rsquo;ve been, you know. This is such an
injustice, et cetera, et cetera.&rdquo; Then that passes and you say,
&ldquo;Oh, I see what happened. It&rsquo;s just &hellip; it&rsquo;s just
an ego trick.&rdquo; And so you turn to the Father and you say,
&ldquo;Father, help me to see this the way You see it.&rdquo; And then
you be quiet and nothing. There&rsquo;s no infilling. There&rsquo;s no
answer to it. There&rsquo;s no response. There&rsquo;s no transformation
there. So from there, there&rsquo;s two ways to go. You can just keep
sitting there until it becomes impractical, I guess, to sit there any
longer. Or you can wait until &hellip; until another time when you can
go back and say, &ldquo;Father, I still don&rsquo;t feel healed from
that last situation. Help me to see, to see how You see it.&rdquo; And
so this is the process, correct?
</div> 

Indeed.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
You just keep &hellip; the perseverance just has to keep being there and
you just keep going back again and again and again for thousands and
thousands of years. [laughing] [audience laughter]
</div> 

For however long it takes!

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
&hellip; long it takes!
</div> 

It&rsquo;s like straightening teeth. You put the braces on and they keep
pressuring for the movement into alignment. And the pressure is
persistent. And as movement occurs, new pressure is applied for further
movement. And so you must persist. You must persist in fulfilling your
Reason for Being. And the only reason you seem to need to persist is
because you&rsquo;re out of the habit of being the Presence of Love, and
you&rsquo;re heavily into the habit of being the presence of judgment.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And so, you know, we&rsquo;ve spoken about the bottom of the barrel,
being at the bottom of the barrel. Well, this is a little different from
being at the bottom of the barrel because what it is, is you recognize
that other ways don&rsquo;t work. I mean you&rsquo;ve been down that
road so many times before, that it doesn&rsquo;t work to get involved in
this ego-dynamic bullshit that just keeps spinning you out. So you have
to be persistent. And you keep going back. And guess what, Raj?
That&rsquo;s not fun. [single audience laugh]
</div> 

You and I have talked about that before.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
That&rsquo;s a cooker. You&rsquo;re in the pressure cooker, and you just
&hellip; I mean you&rsquo;re sizzling. You&rsquo;re just &hellip;
you&rsquo;re there because you&rsquo;re neither &hellip; you&rsquo;re
neither answered, or &hellip; or and you&rsquo;re not in your ego and
you&rsquo;re not, you know what I mean? Maybe you are in your ego, but
you recognize that you&rsquo;re &hellip; that&rsquo;s no way &hellip;
that&rsquo;s nowhere to live your life.
</div> 

That&rsquo;s correct.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And yet you&rsquo;re not &hellip; you&rsquo;re like in nowhere land, in
like &hellip;
</div> 

But the reason you&rsquo;re there is simple. It&rsquo;s because
you&rsquo;re all stubborn.  [some audience laughter]

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So there&rsquo;s a surrender that needs to happen there, a letting go of
the way you were. But the thing is &hellip;
</div> 

Surrender is absolutely essential. And what makes it seem to take time
is your unwillingness to abandon your stubbornness. And many of you may
think that you have very little of a stubborn streak in you and
it&rsquo;s when you find out how long it takes to hear the
Father&rsquo;s Voice that you discover the degree of stubbornness. But,
you know what? The opportunity will keep presenting itself to you
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Oh, I know that.
</div> 

&hellip; and wearing you down.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Right. The other thing, too, is, you know, you&rsquo;re always saying in
your head, &ldquo;Well, I&rsquo;m willing. I certainly am
willing!&rdquo; But that&rsquo;s a head trip. [scattered audience
laughter] You&rsquo;re not willing. It&rsquo;s gotta be in &hellip; deep
&hellip; deep down inside. It&rsquo;s gotta be a shift that you
can&hellip; that&rsquo;s palpable, that you can feel in your gut
shifting. So uh &hellip;
</div> 

Michael, what can I say?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I don&rsquo;t know. What can I say? [more audience laughter]
</div> 

You&rsquo;ve got the point.

This book I&rsquo;m holding in my hand, A Course in Miracles, is umpteen
hundred pages of what you just talked about. [some audience laughter]
And until each of you is willing to persist in yielding, that absolutely
horrible word &ldquo;yielding,&rdquo; until you actually do that, which
isn&rsquo;t fun, you&rsquo;re still stuck no matter how well you can
talk the Course. But I have to remind you that it&rsquo;s your nature to
do this awful thing. It&rsquo;s your nature to yield. It&rsquo;s utterly
natural to you and you aren&rsquo;t going against your nature by doing
it. You&rsquo;re going against your ego conditioning, but you&rsquo;re
not going against your nature. And so you have the support of the
Universe behind you in doing it. And so you&rsquo;re assured of success.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
If feeling helpless is the first step, then I&rsquo;ve taken that one.
That&rsquo;s for sure. I don&rsquo;t know what else to say. I mean I
guess &hellip; I guess I&rsquo;m on the right track. It&rsquo;s just
that a &hellip; when you come to this point, it&rsquo;s just a &hellip;
limbo. What can I say?
</div> 

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Oh, there no more limbo I realize, that was abolished recently but
nevertheless that&rsquo;s what I feel. Like maybe I was &hellip;
</div> 

Feeling helpless, feeling incompetent is just the first step. The reason
for that experience is to cause you to say &ldquo;Help!&rdquo;, to reach
out, truly reach out to God. The first step is the realization, &ldquo;I
of myself can do nothing.&rdquo; But you can get stuck there.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And then, you know, anger and frustration can come in, too. Just like a
little kid.
</div> 

Absolutely.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
You know.
</div> 

And sidetrack you for a little longer. But you get to that point which
is essential and then you must take the next step and say,
&ldquo;Help!&rdquo; You much reach out.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay. Thanks.
</div> 

There&rsquo;s another word that goes along with this. It&rsquo;s another
one of those awful words, &ldquo;repentance.&rdquo; All repentance means
is that you&rsquo;re willing to change. But you will not arrive at a
point of being willing to change until you realize that your
stubbornness has done nothing but create permanent grief for you, and
you want to choose again. You realize you can do nothing of yourself.
You get over being mad about it and you ask for help. And then you say
&ldquo;Yes&rdquo; to the help you receive.  And that&rsquo;s repentance.
It&rsquo;s just you coming back into your Right Mind.  These
aren&rsquo;t really terrible words, and the meanings aren&rsquo;t
terrible.  It&rsquo;s just you becoming sane again.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So, I&rsquo;m having a similar experience. What&rsquo;s happening for me
is I&rsquo;ve made my commitment, and I know there&rsquo;s no way out.
And I do have enough evidence that there is a God and that He&rsquo;s
working in my life. And so when I want to value how quickly the change
is happening, instead of doing that, I relax and I trust. And I&rsquo;m
finding that even though I might not be changing any faster than
Michael, I&rsquo;m not nearly as uncomfortable because I got faith that
the change is happening in good time and I just sort of rest there. I
mean, I&rsquo;m not thinking that I&rsquo;m getting results any faster,
but I&rsquo;m not uncomfortable.
</div> 

Okay.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
You know, I&rsquo;m listening to this and I&rsquo;m resonating with
myself and I know there&rsquo;s got to be a shift here somewhere where
it becomes a matter of Love. I mean where I&rsquo;m hearing it&rsquo;s
like it&rsquo;s a chore&mdash;we&rsquo;ve got to do this. But it really
isn&rsquo;t. This is a Love affair which takes precedent over everything
in our lives.
</div> 

But you see, the Love affair, the subject of Love, can&rsquo;t really be
talked about &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I know.
</div> 

&hellip; until the experience of helplessness has been arrived at, and
the element of stubbornness has been gotten past. One has to arrive at a
point where struggling and pain and misery that have been brought about
by stubbornness are no longer experienced as being valuable. And
there&rsquo;s something in you that wants to make a different choice.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Does that &hellip;
</div> 

That willingness or desire to make a different choice, you could say, is
the first glimmering of self Love, with a capital &ldquo;L&rdquo;.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay. Would the chore then still be the holdout that you still think you
can do it your way?
</div> 

Absolutely.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay. So there&rsquo;s still a little &hellip;
</div> 

That&rsquo;s the stubbornness.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
That&rsquo;s the stubbornness. Okay. I wanted to be clear on that.
</div> 

Yes. I want all of you to be very practical and very real. And I&rsquo;m
not hanging crepe here, but don&rsquo;t try to gloss over the work.
Don&rsquo;t try to find different words to use that make it sound
easier. Because abandoning old habits must be done consciously and
conscientiously by choice. And so I don&rsquo;t want you to get too
flowery about it. I don&rsquo;t want you to be depressed about it either
just because it&rsquo;s work. But if you know that there&rsquo;s work
involved, you will arrive at a point where you love yourself enough to
engage in the effort. The effort to what?  The effort to make
distinctions between Truth and error, Good and evil, and make the choice
for Truth and Good, and actually break old habits.

When you are able to distinguish between Truth and error and make the
choice for Truth, you find that instead of being blown about like a
will-of-the-wisp, you now have a rudder. And the amount of effort you
have to put forth to stay on track when you have a rudder is far less
than the amount of effort you have to put forth when you&rsquo;re being
blown about like a will-of-the-wisp and are having to try stay on track
without a rudder. And so, when you&rsquo;re willing to become practical
enough and grounded enough to make these distinctions with commitment,
you find that there&rsquo;s a new level of order and harmony that are
accompanied by conscientiousness. Conscientiousness could be called
effort or work. But you have a natural capacity to stand with the Truth,
and that&rsquo;s what conscientiousness is.

So I encourage you to avoid words like &ldquo;a Love affair&rdquo; and
&ldquo;it&rsquo;s all about Love.&rdquo; I&rsquo;m not putting you down,
but I&rsquo;m trying to save you time.  Because if you&rsquo;re looking
for something wonderful about it, you will tend to miss the wonder of
the discovery of your capacity to be divinely conscientious, forever
standing at the post, forever making the distinction, because it&rsquo;s
natural to you to be doing nothing else but recognizing the Truth and
protecting it. Protecting it by never again indulging in infatuation
with error. You see what I&rsquo;m saying? Okay.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I have a question. I&rsquo;ve noticed that making distinctions and
saying &ldquo;Yes&rdquo; to God means that you also have to be willing
to change. And I think that that is the hook that sometimes comes that
&hellip; where we practice faithlessness. And we think that change means
that we&rsquo;re being led to something worse than what we have, I think
is where the stubbornness comes in. I&rsquo;ve noticed in my own life,
being more willing to change, because sometimes saying &ldquo;Yes&rdquo;
to God means, you know, a change in circumstance, or a change in
behavior, or a change in response, whatever. It&rsquo;s like you have to
be flexible. And to know &hellip;
</div> 

And sometimes it means staying right where you are and being in a new
way.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yes. That&rsquo;s right. But I think that&rsquo;s where the development
of trust comes in because I&rsquo;ve noticed that the more that I say
&ldquo;Yes&rdquo; to God, the more that I&rsquo;m willing to change and
go with the flow, the more that I realize that I am being led to
something better. And so with time, with the continued effort, I&rsquo;m
recognizing that I&rsquo;m becoming stronger, that I&rsquo;m more
grounded. It&rsquo;s paying off. From experience I&rsquo;m noticing
it&rsquo;s paying off. And I could see how sometimes the &hellip; early
on in the process, there&rsquo;s a lot more fear to making distinctions
which would then lead to saying &ldquo;Yes&rdquo; which would then lead
to &hellip; because of the change, because &hellip;
</div> 

That is correct.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
&hellip; because the ego likes to suggest that change means change for
the worst.
</div> 

Exactly. Exactly. Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I&rsquo;m sorry. I feel like I&rsquo;ve been experiencing this and
I&rsquo;ve finally got past the big chunk of letting go and it&rsquo;s
&hellip; it&rsquo;s like letting habits &hellip; the habits that
don&rsquo;t get you anywhere. You think they&rsquo;re getting you
somewhere, but they really don&rsquo;t go anywhere; dead end street. I
finally somehow got the willingness to let some of that go and just say,
&ldquo;Okay. I&rsquo;m all Yours. You show me what to do.&rdquo; I
don&rsquo;t have to make any more decisions. I don&rsquo;t have to do
anything except hone in, and then&hellip;
</div> 

Except that you have to say &ldquo;Yes.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yes.
</div> 

And make commitment to it and that is a decision. But that is something
you will do anew daily.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I feel like that&rsquo;s happening.
</div> 

You are correct.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And it is a very wonderful feeling, and it encourages you to keep going.
You want more and more. And it feels like everything is expanding and
making more sense when it&rsquo;s less scary. Right?
</div> 

And, at the very same time, you are exercising less control than you
ever have before without becoming stupid or truly foolish.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Quite the opposite actually.
</div> 

Yes. Exactly.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Thank you.
</div> 

Ye shall know the Truth and the Truth shall make you free, for God knows
what. For what you don&rsquo;t want to imagine because what you would
imagine will be far less than what the Father&rsquo;s gifting you with.
And when in any given moment you ask the Father, &ldquo;What is
Truth?&rdquo; and you experience Truth, as I said last week, don&rsquo;t
assume that today&rsquo;s illumination will be sufficient to illuminate
tomorrow. Because you want the direct Experience of Truth in its
ever-freshness moment by moment by moment eternally.

So do understand that listening to the Father, listening for the
Father&rsquo;s Will and saying &ldquo;Yes&rdquo; to it will mean that
you will never be able to peg anything. You will never have it under
your belt so that you will never have to listen again because
you&rsquo;ve got it. Being means forever getting it fresh. And just
remember this. Forever getting it fresh is going to be evidenced as
healing, as the salvation of the world, the uncovering of the Kingdom of
Heaven where you had been seeing the world. And so it&rsquo;s with each
other and with all of the Brotherhood that the Love of God comes into
play and expression and embodiment, and the revelation of What Truth Is
in every single relationship. And remember, you not only have
relationships with each other, you have relationships with the flowers,
and the trees and the animals, and everything.

Is everyone enjoying the Course?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Absolutely.
</div> 

It is a wonderful trigger of the movement from head to heart, from
having one&rsquo;s back to the Altar to turning toward the Altar, to
wanting to know the Truth and inquiring as to What Truth Is. Not for
uses you would put it to, but to know What God Is Being so that you
might be let in on the secret, the very public infinite manifestation of
Creation that you&rsquo;ve been missing out on because you&rsquo;ve
insisted on using your own private definitions, thus making [laugh] the
universal publicness of God&rsquo;s Being a secret kept from you!

The process will take effort in the sense that distinctions will need to
be made. Commitments will have to be made. Persistence will have to
occur. Dedication. You see? But having these is your Birthright. You
could say it&rsquo;s programmed into you already. It&rsquo;s on your
hard drive. You just haven&rsquo;t opened the programs up for a while.
It&rsquo;s all there.

I love you. Remember to love each other enough to want to know the Truth
about each other, and then turn to God for the revelation of it.

Okay. I look forward to seeing you next week.

[^1]: Students commenting or asking a question.
[^2]: T3.I Atonement without Sacrifice

