---
title: Apr 24, 2003
ref: T3.II Miracles as True Perception
---

Good Evening. The last time we were together we were speaking about
liberation and the fact that accompanying liberation is always joy. How
many of you go through your day experiencing joy uninterruptedly? Then
if you are not experiencing joy as you tackle each task or attend to
each thing that needs to be done, it means that you are functioning
under the control of a regime that has as its fundamental tool to keep
you in line, fear. And this state of being is what you call life!

If you remembered the experience of joy, you wouldn&rsquo;t be
tolerating the regime that is controlling you. You get it? You
wouldn&rsquo;t be tolerating it. You wouldn&rsquo;t be going through
your day saying: &ldquo;Well, this is life.  I&rsquo;m doing pretty
well. What can I expect?&rdquo; Well, that question is a statement of
ignorance, isn&rsquo;t it? You can expect joy.

Joy can be the context in which every event of your day occurs. Even if
you have to dig a ditch, joy can accompany it. Now my point is to simply
make utterly clear that when you are not experiencing joy accompanying
every moment of your day, then you are indeed in bondage, and you can
either cry in your milk about the horrible situation you&rsquo;re in, or
you can become immediately, and with focus, curious to find the way out,
to find your way out from under the bondage, to regain your freedom. So
I&rsquo;m encouraging you, as you enter this next week, to bring with
you everywhere you go a very definite sense of curiosity. Don&rsquo;t be
so laid back. Don&rsquo;t be so willing to be pretty comfortable.

Be curious to have the light go on in your mind, so that you can feel
the influx of joy that it&rsquo;s your Birthright to be experiencing so
that it can spontaneously extend from you and bless everyone else. In
other words, be a little more conscious this week. Be a little more
awake to what you don&rsquo;t know.

And this brings me to the second thing I want to share. We&rsquo;ve been
talking about going within, turning toward the Altar, asking of the
Father, or of your Guide, &ldquo;What is the Truth?&rdquo; Now the one
thing I haven&rsquo;t talked about is when you do that, leave the Course
In Miracles behind. Leave your parents teaching behind. Leave what
you&rsquo;ve learned from your experience behind. Turn toward the Altar,
ask your question, and be wide open to the unexpected. Everything
you&rsquo;ve learned so far has not caused you to be awake yet. So
don&rsquo;t expect the Father&rsquo;s Voice or your Guide&rsquo;s Voice
to sound like the Course or to sound like anything you&rsquo;ve heard
before. You&rsquo;re going to hear something new obviously. And if you
aren&rsquo;t hearing something new, then what&rsquo;s the point of
asking and listening?

Don&rsquo;t expect what you&rsquo;re going to hear to fit a pattern that
you&rsquo;re already familiar with. You need to dare to listen without
expectations of any kind as to what you&rsquo;re going to hear, how
it&rsquo;s going to be expressed, what it&rsquo;s going to sound like.
And I promise you one thing: what you hear will always be perfect for
you. And so the answer that two of you &hellip; the answer to a question
that two of you ask of your Guides is not going be identical, but
it&rsquo;s going to be perfect for you.

So, don&rsquo;t say, &ldquo;Oh well, this doesn&rsquo;t sound like
Raj,&rdquo; or &ldquo;This doesn&rsquo;t sound like the Course.&rdquo;
Well, my God, if it doesn&rsquo;t sound like either one of them, maybe,
maybe it&rsquo;s something new! Maybe it&rsquo;s exactly the thing you
need to hear that will push you over the edge, so to speak, into
freefall, a new experience. So when you listen, don&rsquo;t listen with
preconceptions. Listen with an innocent mind, innocent of
preconceptions. Expect, if you&rsquo;re going to expect something,
something you&rsquo;re not familiar with. And if you&rsquo;re not
listening for something you&rsquo;re not familiar with, you&rsquo;re
wasting your time.

Don&rsquo;t hold the Father&rsquo;s Expression of His Will to you to
conform to anything you&rsquo;re already familiar with. That will put
you in a position of what could be called full open reception. And this
is very important.  Many times when you listen, you&rsquo;ll get a
feeling for what&rsquo;s coming, and if the feeling doesn&rsquo;t
conform to your expectation, you&rsquo;ll block it and you won&rsquo;t
hear anything. You want to hear something different from what you
already know, &lsquo;cause what you already know hasn&rsquo;t cut it
yet.  Afterwards, if you want, you can always compare, argue, notice
differences. And this is healthy because then you can ask new questions
without any expectations as to what the answer ought to be and hear
further things that are new that will move you out of self-satisfaction
with a small &ldquo;s&rdquo; and move you into your Birthright.

In a way, the Course is like a message some earlier prisoner wrote on
your cell wall. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m going to be released tomorrow,&rdquo;
it says. And you look at it and you say, &ldquo;Released? Released from
what? I wonder what that means?&rdquo; And of course, now your mind is
open for a new idea to register with you that there is something more
than living within your prison wall. You see?

&ldquo;Oh, I&rsquo;ll bet it&rsquo;s going to be a new message that I
get to write on the wall.&rdquo; No! The message is that there&rsquo;s
somewhere other to be than inside the prison. You see? But if you think
that what&rsquo;s going to come is going to be like what already came
and that it&rsquo;s just going to be a new message for you to write on
the wall, there will be no release, no liberation. You see?

So you&rsquo;ve got to listen with totally fresh ears because the
answers will come in totally fresh language with meanings that
haven&rsquo;t dawned on you yet.

Okay. Let&rsquo;s start up on this side, and &hellip; okay.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Son of God is part of the Holy Trinity, but the Trinity Itself is
one.[^1]
</div> 

Wow! There we go right off the bat. What would you say if I told you
that there&rsquo;s no Holy Trinity? &ldquo;Oh, but it says it in the
Course!&rdquo; [audience laughter] Wow! Now, I&rsquo;ve said before that
when you chose to make up your own definitions, when you chose to quote
&ldquo;think for yourself&rdquo; unquote independent of the Father and
in so doing denied your Identity, denied what you were as the direct
Expression and Presence of God, you couldn&rsquo;t alter What You
Divinely Are and so the part of you that you denied remained in place
unaltered, but ignored by you. And at that moment, the Holy Spirit came
into existence. And I&rsquo;ve said that the Holy Spirit is your
Divinity held in trust while you dally with the ego.

Now this reference to the Holy Trinity is not only an accommodation to
Christian theology. It does express the way creation appears when
you&rsquo;ve turned your back on the Father and have defined everything
in your own terms. Because there is the Father, there is the
Son&mdash;you, each one of you&mdash;as an ignorant travesty, you might
say, of What You Truly Are, and the ignored Presence of What You Truly
Are which is the Holy Spirit.  What You Truly Are serves the Father. 
That&rsquo;s the difficulty in waking up is that you don&rsquo;t want to 
yield to the Father. You want to express your own will.

And so the Holy Spirit, your Divinity, is always functioning in a
nurturing, nudging, supporting way to cause you to stop using such
narrow vision when what&rsquo;s confronting you is Infinity, Reality.
And it&rsquo;s always serving the Father. And by serving the Father on
your behalf because You are It, It is constantly engaged in promoting
your movement back into your Wholeness. And this is why it can be said
that the Holy Spirit can turn every situation to your advantage.

Now, when you come back Home and you let yourself be God Expressed, you
let God be All, the only thing going on where you are on God&rsquo;s
terms, then you become His Sane Son, His Sane Daughter, His Sane
Expression, and there will no longer be the Holy Spirit. There will be
Mind with a capital &ldquo;M&rdquo; and Its Idea. There will be the
Creator and His Creation.  And as I&rsquo;ve said before, Mind moves and
recognizes Itself, and that recognition consummates the total Movement
of Being that is Creation.

In other words, there isn&rsquo;t cause and effect. There&rsquo;s Cause
and Event.  And the Event is Cause seen and recognized. Mind moves,
recognizes Its Self, and that constitutes Self-consciousness. Mind
Moving, Mind Being Conscious is the Event so the two are one.

Father and the Son are One as an Experience so the time will come when
there will no longer be a Trinity and your experience of Being will be
God&rsquo;s Experience of Being All There Is, of Being All with no
aspect of Its Infinity unavailable to you and where you experience your
utter Oneness with it all, which would mean experiencing your utter
Oneness with each other and experiencing your utter Oneness with what
you call the Universe, All of Creation, consciously.

So there&rsquo;s an example right there of being willing to listen
without forcing what you&rsquo;re going to hear to conform to the
Course, or any other teaching, or any other learning that you have
adopted for yourself. It won&rsquo;t deny what you&rsquo;ve read, but it
will take you beyond it. And by damn it, you need to get beyond it, all
of it, &lsquo;cause the all of it that you are currently experiencing
isn&rsquo;t what it takes to wake up.

Look at this with delight, like being an explorer. Listen with full open
consciousness placing no limits whatsoever on what you&rsquo;re going to
hear.  Be willing to let it be nonsensical even. One night Paul sat down
to talk to me and I suggested he talk to his Supply. Well, this was a
little far out for him. So he addressed his Supply and his Supply
answered and Paul cut the conversation short. This was too much. Another
time he had a conversation with me and when it was over, it didn&rsquo;t
make any sense to him at all. And he was sure he hadn&rsquo;t listened
well. And the next morning he got up and read it over, made perfect
sense. And he wondered how on earth it couldn&rsquo;t have made sense
the night before. You see? Be full open in your listening.

Okay. Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is no confusion within Its Levels, because They are of one Mind
and one Will. This single purpose creates perfect integration and
establishes the peace of God. Yet this vision can be perceived only by
the truly innocent. Because their hearts are pure, the innocent defend
true perception instead of defending themselves against it.
</div> 

And you remember, we&rsquo;ve been talking about defending something by
giving it your attention and not allowing yourself to be distracted from
it by anything. That&rsquo;s the way you defend Truth. That&rsquo;s the
way you defend True Perception, by giving yourself over to it
completely. You don&rsquo;t defend Truth by attacking error. You see?

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Understanding the lesson of the Atonement they are without the wish to
attack, and therefore they see truly.
</div> 

Okay. A little pop quiz. Understanding the lesson of the Atonement. What
is the meaning of Atonement?

One person [in the audience] said, &ldquo;A shift of perception.&rdquo;
That&rsquo;s a miracle.

And someone else [in the audience] said, &ldquo;An inspired Act of
Love.&rdquo; Yes.  The Atonement is an Act of Love.

So understanding the meaning of the Act of Love, they are without the
wish to attack. They value Love embodied in action more than anything
else. And so they&rsquo;re without the wish to attack, and therefore
they see truly.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is what the Bible means when it says, &ldquo;When He shall appear
(or be perceived) we shall be like Him, for we shall see Him as He
is.&rdquo;
</div> 

And this is sort of like: Which came first? The chicken or the egg?

Is it that we shall see Him as He is because we are like Him.

Or is it that: We shall be like Him for we shall see Him as He is.

The two are actually inseparable. When you care enough to look at a
Brother with innocent eyes, again with the willingness to see what
you&rsquo;ve never seen there before, you will have revealed to you the
Father&rsquo;s View of him, and you will know that it&rsquo;s the Truth
about you, too. And vice versa. If you ask to know the Truth about you,
or any little incremental clearer glimpse of your Divinity that you have
about yourself, you will immediately know it&rsquo;s True about your
Brother, and you will see him as he is. They are two sides of one coin,
if you will.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The way to correct distortions is to withdraw your faith in them and
invest it only in what is true.
</div> 

That&rsquo;s called protecting True Perception, protecting Truth.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You cannot make untruth true. If you are willing to accept what is true
in everything you perceive, you let it be true for you.
</div> 

Now, the key word is &ldquo;let.&rdquo; You let it be true for you. You
don&rsquo;t make it be true for you, because you are letting the
Father&rsquo;s Perspective, if I may use that word, be Real for you. You
are abandoning your determined definition about a thing and letting the
Father&rsquo;s View be the only one you choose to entertain.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Truth overcomes all error, and those who live in error and emptiness can
never find lasting solace.
</div> 

Now Truth overcomes error not through a fight, but by being the
nonexistence of the error, being the nonsense of the error. So Truth
overcomes it because what is valueless becomes obviously valueless. And
you always abandon what has no value. So there&rsquo;s no struggle there
in the overcoming of error.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I just want to add a little note. And the miracle is the little shift in
perception that returns us back to the Atonement. So whenever
we&rsquo;re seeing error, to be open to the miracle which shifts us back
to that Experience of Love where we can see the Truth.[^2]
</div> 

It shifts you back to the Truth where you can spontaneously feel the
Love that is appropriate to it and that Love gets extended. Yes.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you perceive truly you are cancelling out misperceptions in yourself
and in others simultaneously.
</div> 

Ah, again very important. You cannot have a private revelation. You
can&rsquo;t have a private insight. You can&rsquo;t become clearer
without the whole Sonship being freed to some degree from the ignorance
that has kept it from feeling and experiencing Its Unity.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Because you see them as they are, you offer them your acceptance of
their truth so they can accept it for themselves.
</div> 

And I just, because of the New-Age lingo where everyone speaks about
everyone having their truth as though each one has a private different
perception that is truth, true, this [the section read] really means
because you see them as they are, you offer them your acceptance of the
Truth about them that is so obvious to you. Not a Truth that&rsquo;s
their possession, but the Reality of them that you&rsquo;re no longer
confused about so they can accept it for themselves.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is the healing that the miracle induces.
</div> 

Indeed.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Is this why we can&rsquo;t wake up alone because we need another one to
see our Truth when we haven&rsquo;t seen it?
</div> 

Well, what are you being healed of? You&rsquo;re being healed of the
idea that you can be alone. And so absolutely, you can&rsquo;t wake up
alone because being asleep is the problem of being alone. And the way
you break that problem, the way you destroy that illusion, is by
breaking the isolation. Absolutely.

Okay &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*Perception versus Knowledge*

We have been emphasizing perception, and have said very little about
knowledge as yet. This is because perception must be straightened out
before you can know anything.
</div> 

And actually the word &ldquo;know&rdquo; is the key word: before you can
know anything.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To know is to be certain. Uncertainty means that you do not know.
Knowledge is power because it is certain, and certainty is strength.
</div> 

So Knowledge is the clear experience of unequivocal Truth.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Perception is temporary. As an attribute of the belief in space and
time, it is subject to either fear or love. Misperceptions produce fear
and true perceptions foster love, but neither brings certainty because
all perception varies. That is why it is not knowledge. True perception
is the basis for knowledge, but knowing is the affirmation of truth and
beyond all perceptions.
</div> 

Indeed. Now, again, I&rsquo;d like to make a clarification. You think of
knowledge as an acquired body of information. And that is not what is
meant here. Knowledge is what you specifically know when Truth is not
hidden from you. And it isn&rsquo;t something that you deposit in your
memory banks. You do not move along experiencing truth now, and another
truth now, and another truth now, and store these bits of information in
memory to draw upon.

Come with me for a moment on an inner visual journey. You are awake and
all of Infinity and all of Creation that fills It is consciously present
in your awareness. No part of It is beyond your Presence of Mind. Now,
you can move through it if you wish, as though you were going through
space, and just for purpose of illustration, we&rsquo;ll say that you
start out from Planet Earth. And as you leave Planet Earth, you are
specifically, and with more focus, aware of all that it is and all that
is Truth about it. And as you move toward Mars, your attention begins to
shift toward your destination. And more and more specifically, you
become aware of Mars, and less and less are you, specifically, with a
high degree of focus, aware of Earth, even though everything about it is
still present as part of your consciousness. When you arrive at Mars,
you can be aware of the Truth, the meaning of every little grain of
sand. If you shift your attention [snaps finger] just like that back to
Earth, you can do the same thing with the grains of sand on the beach.

Now, my point is this: That knowledge is the direct present Experience
of Truth when it is needed, even though you are never unconscious of the
Truth of any aspect of the Infinitude of Creation. You do not need to
store the Knowing of Truth away for future use. You can Know the Truth
at any moment by asking what Truth is. And at any moment you can Know
the Truth without ever having to search your memory banks. And
that&rsquo;s my point.

My point is: Do not study this Course, do not desire to know the Truth
so that you can engage in a lifelong habit of storing bits of
information away for future use. Ye shall Know the Truth, and the Truth
shall make you free. And you will Know the Truth by being fully present
in the moment with the specifics of Creation that are in your face at
the moment so that the direct Experience of the Truth of it can be
experienced and thereby be the nonexistence of any confusion about it.
And you might say, the next time you&rsquo;re back at this place, you
will be present in the moment with it, so that you might experience the
Truth of it, Know the Truth of it, and thereby you could say have
Knowledge of it, but it&rsquo;s a Living Knowledge, not a stored
knowledge. I want you to catch the feeling of being in the Flow of
Knowing always, and beginning to be willing to abandon the high regard
you give to, and the use you put to, memory.

Okay. Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
All your difficulties stem from the fact that you do not recognize
yourself, your brother or God. To recognize means to &ldquo;know
again,&rdquo; implying that you knew before.
</div> 

In other words: re-cognize, to cognize again.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You can see in many ways because perception involves interpretation, and
this means that it is not whole or consistent. The miracle, being a way
of perceiving, is not knowledge. It is the right answer to a question,
but you do not question when you know. Questioning illusions is the
first step in undoing them. The miracle, or the right answer, corrects
them. Since perceptions change, their dependence on time is obvious. How
you perceive at any given time determines what you do, and actions must
occur in time. Knowledge is timeless, because certainty is not
questionable. You know when you have ceased to ask questions.
</div> 

You know when you have ceased to ask questions.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Question? Truth and knowledge are subjective experiences?
</div>

All being is subjective. All being is subjective.

You will find that I use the word &ldquo;Knowing&rdquo; a lot. And I use
it in the way that &ldquo;Knowledge&rdquo; is used here. Knowing is a
direct Experience of Truth.

There is a sneaky style that the ego is employing in this day and age, a
way of avoiding looking at what needs to be looked at. If a statement is
made, the person bound by their ego says, &ldquo;Well, that&rsquo;s just
your perception,&rdquo; meaning &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t have to pay any
attention to it.&rdquo;

But you know what? There&rsquo;s something more than perception
available to you. And, if you have listened so that you know the Truth
and you express it, and another person says, &ldquo;That&rsquo;s just
your perception,&rdquo; avoid getting entangled with them in arguing
about whether it&rsquo;s a perception or whether it&rsquo;s knowledge.
Because the point is that the answer lies beyond perception. And whoever
the Truth has been spoken to needs to abandon the avoidance technique of
saying, &ldquo;That&rsquo;s just your perception,&rdquo; and replace it
with a desire to know what the immutable Truth is, the unchanging Truth
is, because there is something Real going on. And to live in perceptions
is insanity. Okay.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I have a question.
</div> 

Go ahead.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Truth and knowledge, when we abandon it and identify with perceptions,
we are in fact going from a fourth-dimensional experience back to a
third-dimensional where we&rsquo;re looking out there, outside of our
subjective experience, and we in that moment do not know the Truth. Is
that correct?
</div> 

That is correct.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay.
</div> 

You are ignorant of the Truth about something that is Real. And so the
focus needs to come back to the fact that there&rsquo;s always something
Real about which you&rsquo;re having a misperception and a willingness
to abandon the misperception because there&rsquo;s a desire to protect
Truth by being conscious only of It. And abiding by that commitment, you
abandon the perception and become open, if you have innocent ears or
innocent eyes, to the direct Experience of Truth or Knowledge or Knowing
with a capital &ldquo;K.&rdquo;

Okay.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Which is back in the subjective experience &hellip;
</div>

Absolutely.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
&hellip; and which accompanies, which you know when you&rsquo;re there
because you feel a complete sense of Love and Peace with it, with the
Knowing.
</div> 

Yes. Except that it doesn&rsquo;t feel subjective. Subjective &hellip;
the word &ldquo;subjective&rdquo; suggests somehow intangible and
perhaps unreal. But the experience is a direct Experience of Truth and
therefore, the direct Experience of the Reality of it. And so, in many
ways it will feel like what you call objective, but infinitely more so.

Okay.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The questioning mind perceives itself in time, and therefore looks for
future answers. The closed mind believes the future and the present will
be the same. This establishes a seemingly stable state that is usually
an attempt to counteract an underlying fear that the future will be
worse than the present. This fear inhibits the tendency to question at
all.
</div> 

Indeed. Nothing difficult to understand there.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
True vision is the natural perception of spiritual sight, but it is
still a correction rather than a fact. Spiritual sight is symbolic, and
therefore not a device for knowing. It is, however, a means of right
perception, which brings it into the proper domain of the miracle. A
&ldquo;vision of God&rdquo; would be a miracle rather than a revelation.
The fact that perception is involved at all removes the experience from
the realm of knowledge. That is why visions, however holy, do not last.
</div> 

Indeed. Spiritual sight is a gift that sets the mind in the right
direction that causes one, let us say, to turn around toward the Altar,
to desire to know something more than is known, and to feel the impulse
to turn to where the answer can be received.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Please clarify just a little bit there. That spot you&rsquo;re talking
about.
</div> 

I mean the Altar.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yeah, but it brings you into a state of mind where clar- &hellip; say
that again please. I think I&rsquo;m almost there.
</div> 

Spiritual vision is always accompanied with an Experience of Meaning, an
Experience of Holiness, an experience of that which is obviously not a
normal part of your daily life. As a result, it not only causes you to
become curious, it causes you to know where to look to have the
curiosity satisfied. Because when you&rsquo;re uninspired and in the ego
place and you have a question, you always look to memory. You always
look in the wrong place to find the answer. But spiritual vision has an
accompaniment to it that by virtue of its Divinity, its obvious
Divinity, causes you to become curious about Divine Things, which causes
you to turn toward a Divine Source. You might call it God, but the fact
is that even in calling it God, you&rsquo;re turning back toward the
Altar.  You&rsquo;re turning to where the answer can come from that
satisfies the question.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
These are my first experiences of the freedom and the joy.
</div> 

What are?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
These visions. This place where I have an inkling, and it&rsquo;s
different and it&rsquo;s the freedom and then the little bit of joy. And
that&rsquo;s where the indignation for the bondage is coming
&lsquo;cause I know now that there&rsquo;s these little experiences, I
know that there&rsquo;s a way out and the absurdity of being held by
nothing that makes any sense. I&rsquo;ve touched these spots some.
</div> 

I&rsquo;m glad you referred to them as a first slight taste of joy,
because Joy in Its fullness comes when the answer is given and Knowing
is being experienced and then Joy uninhibited courses through your very
Being. So I guess what I&rsquo;m trying to say is don&rsquo;t become
satisfied with the first few tastes of joy, the intimation of Real Joy
that comes from the spiritual insights. That&rsquo;s not the ultimate
guys. Keep looking to where the answer is that satisfies the question.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
In that unexpected place.
</div> 

Yes. Even if as the answer comes forth you experience feeling more and
more joy, stay the course until you arrive at the fullness of Joy that
comes from Knowing and not a perception, a hint of joy. You see? Okay.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
May I ask you &hellip;
</div> 

We have a question here.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I take it then that it&rsquo;s not necessary to be fully awake to have
Knowledge, to have a &hellip;
</div> 

Absolutely not.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So and Knowledge is like, you say things like: &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t know
how I knew it, but I just knew it. I could feel it all the way down to
the tips of my toes. I just knew it.&rdquo; Is that &hellip;
</div> 

No. When you Know something, you don&rsquo;t talk about having Known it.
You just be in the Knowing of it and you be in a new way, but you
don&rsquo;t talk about Knowing.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So like when it goes &hellip;
</div> 

It&rsquo;s like looking at Ken over there and saying, &ldquo;Wow! My
eyes are sure doing a good job of seeing.&rdquo; You see what I&rsquo;m
saying. You say, &ldquo;Hi, Ken.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
But if you usually wear glasses and then you look at Ken and you can see
him in perfect focus and then you realize that you don&rsquo;t have your
glasses on, and then everything goes fuzzy again, you go: &ldquo;Wow! I
could see him perfectly clear without my glasses.&rdquo; That&rsquo;s
the kind of thing I was referring to.
</div> 

No. When Knowing occurs, the Experience of Knowing takes precedence over
any levels of perception you had prior.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So you can&rsquo;t reflect on it though? I mean you can&rsquo;t look
back and say, &ldquo;I knew it.&rdquo;
</div> 

Knowing is a now, a present experience and it causes one to find the
past to be irrelevant, and gives you a direct experience of the fact
that there is no past or future and that any past or future you
conceived of was an illusion, and therefore not worth any comment or
conversation whatsoever in light of the fullness of Knowing which you
can&rsquo;t help but let govern the way you&rsquo;re being in the
moment. It moves you out of time.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So you recognize the illusion of time?
</div> 

Oh, absolutely.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay, then a question about vision. I had an experience where it was
like my field of vision parted and then I could look past my normal way
of seeing, and I saw everything phosphorescing or colors streaming,
colored energy streaming off of everything I looked at, and then that
disappeared. Is that what you meant when it talks about vision and why
vision can&rsquo;t last? Or doesn&rsquo;t last.
</div> 

Oh, that is perception. Perception can&rsquo;t last, no matter how
inspired it is. But once again, it points you in the right direction.
[Note: the audio ends abruptly here.] You know from the experience that
there&rsquo;s more to everything than &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Exactly. That was the value of it.
</div> 

And so now your level of curiosity is heightened because of experience,
instead of because someone else told you about it and it sounded like an
interesting experience to have. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
The other aspect of a vision like that, whatever you want to call it,
experience, was that it was almost unbearable. It was overpowering. And
so you were saying you know it&rsquo;s out there, but by the same token,
you still feel like, &ldquo;Gee, I don&rsquo;t know if I could handle
that all the time.&rdquo; So that just shows you you&rsquo;re not ready
for it. You see what I mean? Then you can get caught in the thing, well
&hellip;
</div> 

It shows you how comfortable you are in your prison.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Right. Right. But how it might be frightening if you were out of your
prison. So I guess that&rsquo;s why we keep the door closed.
</div> 

Yes. Or if there&rsquo;s no door on the door frame, you keep well away
from the door frame.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
With that experience of being frightened by the ever more of becoming,
how does one &hellip; what do you do? Take baby steps? It&rsquo;s the
&hellip;
</div> 

You will take the biggest steps you can take. Even if they are very
tiny, they will be the biggest you can take. Suffering is always a
wonderful nudge to taking bigger steps or edging toward the door frame
that doesn&rsquo;t have a door on it.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Right. But you see, where the experience is certainly inspiring, it can
also act as you saying to yourself: &ldquo;Well, gee. I don&rsquo;t know
if I can take that. I don&rsquo;t know if I want to &hellip; if I want
to do that or not because &hellip;&rdquo;
</div> 

Indeed. But you know what? You have less and less excuse for doing that
because of the time we have spent together and your study of the Course.
And so you have the capacity to look at it and say, &ldquo;This is too
significant for me, but I recognize that it&rsquo;s my Birthright to be
experiencing it. I recognize that it&rsquo;s really Natural to me. I
know that it is unnatural for me not to be experiencing it. And I know
that the suffering that I am experiencing by virtue of not allowing it,
is not worth as much to me as it used to be.&rdquo; And so you are being
moved into a state of miracle-readiness; a place of less defendedness, a
place where you&rsquo;re willing to be a little more vulnerable.

And this brings us back to what I started out speaking about this
evening that if you&rsquo;re not experiencing Joy, it&rsquo;s because
you&rsquo;re under the domination of a regime that it&rsquo;s
illegitimate for you to be bound by. And you need to &hellip; you need
to dare to invite and let in what you don&rsquo;t know yet. And you need
to do it more consciously with more purpose. And you can dare to do it
with courage, because now you know after listening to me and listening
to me and listening to me that at least you can say, &ldquo;The
possibility is that if I persist, I will find my true state of normalcy.
And my satisfaction will come from the full experience of this that
appears to me to be overwhelming. And I will no longer be satisfied with
a halfway tolerable level of pain, sickness, grief, sorrow,
illness.&rdquo; You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yes. Out of curiosity, when you fully let yourself into an experience
like that, I take it then it&rsquo;s not that you have to get used to
the bright lights. It&rsquo;s more of &ldquo;Ah, this is what it&rsquo;s
supposed &hellip; this is &hellip; I knew &hellip;&rdquo; In other
words, it&rsquo;s a familiarity. You feel like: &ldquo;Ah, I&rsquo;m
home again. This is the way it&rsquo;s supposed to be.&rdquo; Is that
&hellip; is it different for everyone?
</div> 

The actuality of it is that it does take some getting used to. It is
like going through reorientation.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So bring your sunglasses.
</div> 

Bring your sunglasses. Yes. Bring your willingness to not know what
anything means, so that the Real Meaning has space in you to register
with you. I must say, &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t be surprised if it feels
unnatural.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Initially.
</div> 

Exactly. Freedom to the Iraqis does not feel natural at the moment. What
it means and how to be free has not fully registered. And what it means
to you to be truly free, you don&rsquo;t know. So, again, to be very
practical with you: Don&rsquo;t be surprised if the experience of your
Divinity is upsetting in the sense that it will unsettle the confidences
that you have had in the illusion which you&rsquo;ve been very
comfortable with.

But once again at the same time that you&rsquo;re experiencing an
unsettling, you are also experiencing that the unsettling is caused by
Something utterly Divine which provides you with the impulse to persist
in turning to the right place to have your ignorance satisfied by being
replaced with that of which it was the ignorance.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Is it ever so unsettling that you go: &ldquo;Whoa! I&rsquo;m not gonna
to do this!&rdquo; And you just withdraw way deeply back into the dream.
</div> 

It can.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
It can do that.
</div> 

If I had told Paul on our first conversation that my name was Jesus, he
would have backed off, known that he had gone crazy, and we would not
have had a second conversation.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
But the curiosity then is piqued and you can never forget it.
</div> 

That&rsquo;s correct. But you can fight it for a while&mdash;maybe even
for a long time.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Let&rsquo;s hope not.
</div> 

Right. The Holy Spirit is conspiring to shorten the time. Your Divinity
held in trust is conspiring on your behalf to shorten the time that you
are ignorant.

And everything that I&rsquo;m doing has one goal: To bring about a
little bit of willingness to be open and let it in. A little bit of
willingness to let time collapse by letting your confidences in your
mutually-agreed-upon definitions &hellip;

(I&rsquo;m sorry. This is me Paul. Was that a complete sentence?)

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yes, it was.

No.
</div> 

&hellip; to collapse.

Okay.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Can I ask a question?
</div> 

No. We will end at this point for tonight. I&rsquo;ve enjoyed being with
all of you as always.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Thank you.
</div>

And I look forward to being with you next week.

[^1]: T3.II Miracles as True Perception
[^2]: Students commenting or asking a question.

