---
title: May 11, 2003
ref: T3.IV Error and the Ego
---

Without any preamble, we will go right into the Text. And we&rsquo;ll
start right here.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*Error and the Ego*[^1]

The abilities you now possess are only shadows of your real strength.
All of your present functions are divided and open to question and
doubt. This is because you are not certain how you will use them, and
are therefore incapable of knowledge. You are also incapable of
knowledge because you can still perceive lovelessly.
</div> 

And let&rsquo;s remember that the word &ldquo;Knowledge&rdquo; refers to
what I have described as *Knowing* with a capital
&ldquo;K&rdquo;&mdash;the *direct* Experience of Truth.  Not the direct
idea of Truth, but the direct Experience of Truth which is to be
experiencing the Father&rsquo;s point of view; letting that Mind be in
you which is the Father&rsquo;s Mind and claiming no right to a mind of
your own.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Perception did not exist until the separation introduced degrees,
aspects and intervals. Spirit has no levels, and all conflict arises
from the concept of levels. Only the Levels of the Trinity are capable
of Unity. The levels created by the separation cannot but conflict. This
is because they are meaningless to each other.
</div> 

You see the minute you decided to try to have a point of view of your
own, to see things your way and you turned your back on the Father,
turned your back to the Altar and took what you thought would be an
independent stance, it caused you to introduce into your experience a
perspective unlike the Father&rsquo;s.

This perspective, was, nevertheless, a perspective on Reality, because
you didn&rsquo;t have anything but Reality to experience. When you
introduced therefore a biased perception, a twisted or altered
perception of Reality, you created an illusory &hellip; a distorted
experience of it.  Now, if you look at your distorted experience and
believe it, you are in error. And everything you are seeing is
erroneous.

Literally, waking up is coming back into your Right Mind where
you&rsquo;re not claiming a private perspective of your own, and where
you stop introducing this bias or twist on Reality. The illusions that
you choose to believe, because they are not real, are meaningless
because only what is Real is Meaning-full&mdash;with a capital
&ldquo;M.&rdquo;

Let&rsquo;s continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Consciousness, the level of perception, was the first split introduced
into the mind after the separation, making the mind a perceiver rather
than a creator.
</div> 

Now I&rsquo;m going to interrupt here. Mind, with a capital
&ldquo;M,&rdquo; is conscious.  Consciousness is not an illusion. And
this is important to understand.  What this is referring to is the
personal private mind each of you thinks you have when you&rsquo;ve
turned your back on the Altar. The level of perception is what
consciousness is when you have dissociated yourself from the Father. We
could describe it as *human* consciousness versus *Divine* Consciousness.
Here it&rsquo;s referring to the human consciousness. It says,
&ldquo;Consciousness, the level of perception, was the first split
introduced into the mind after the separation, making the mind a
perceiver rather than a creator.&rdquo;

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Is it possible to be conscious at two levels at the same time
simultaneously?[^2]
</div> 

No, it is not. Because either your back is toward the Altar or your back
is away&mdash;you have turned toward the Altar. They are exclusive. That
doesn&rsquo;t mean that you can&rsquo;t have moments of clarity, moments
of revelation, and then seem to turn back once again to your habitual
way of perceiving and reacting to what you perceive.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So it is a matter of where you focus your attention.
</div> 

That is correct.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Consciousness is correctly identified as the domain of the ego. The ego
is a wrong-minded attempt to perceive yourself as you wish to be, rather
than as you are. Yet you can know yourself only as you are, because that
is all you can be sure of.
</div> 

And here the word &ldquo;know&rdquo; might be better understood if it
had a capital &ldquo;K.&rdquo; Yet you can Know yourself only as you are
because that is *all* you can be sure of.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Everything else is open to question.
</div> 

And *that&rsquo;s* what&rsquo;s important! Until you&rsquo;re awake, you
need to look at even these beautiful lilacs and be open to question.
What is the true Meaning? What is really going on there that is so
beautiful to the eye and so delicious to the nose. You need to let
everything be open to question so that your mutually-agreed-upon
definitions don&rsquo;t get in the way of discovering the more of what
is really there than what you&rsquo;re currently seeing.

I wish to see the *Wholeness of God* right there where the lilacs are.
That&rsquo;s how you keep it open to question. You keep &hellip; what
you do is, you question your agreed-upon definitions by
reaching beyond them. You cast doubt upon what you&rsquo;re so sure of
with the desire to have Truth replace your perception. Okay &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego is the questioning aspect of the post-separation self, which was
made rather than created.
</div> 

And you could say &ldquo;made-up.&rdquo; Fantasy, imagination.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is capable of asking questions but not of perceiving meaningful
answers, because these would involve knowledge and cannot be perceived.
</div> 

Indeed. And, in fact, if all of you were honest with yourselves, even in
your prayers, your asking of the question, your making the request,
becomes more important than the answer. And you state, restate, and
justify, and explain, your question endlessly, rather than saying,
&ldquo;I would like to know the Truth about this Father,&rdquo; and
shutting up and listening until you get the answer.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The mind is therefore confused, because only One-mindedness can be
without confusion. A separated or divided mind must be confused.
</div> 

Okay, now this could sound like an indictment on your very state of existence,
but it is important to accept this as the Truth. A separated or divided
mind must be confused. And since you are not awake, you must accept the
fact that you are experiencing confusion. If you do not arrive at a
point where you&rsquo;re able to consider that the truth, you will not
recognize that there is a call for correction. And so this isn&rsquo;t
an indictment on you. It&rsquo;s the provision of a bit of information
which is essential to your acknowledging that something is missing from
your experience. And that that lack needs to be fulfilled; it needs to
be corrected. And until you recognize that, you won&rsquo;t call
anything into question. You will constantly confirm and reconfirm and
reconfirm your current definitions. And you will do your best to live
your life under the terms of those definitions.

So, to recognize intellectually that everything you are experiencing is
really an inadequate experience of Reality and that there is more to
Reality than you are experiencing, and then becoming inquisitive to see
the more that&rsquo;s there, to experience God in the lilacs, to
experience the meaning of Love and Beauty and Truth that God is
embodying and it looks like lilacs. That is what will open you up to a
certain receptivity that can be filled, infilled by God, helping bring
you back into your Right Mind.

So, a separated or divided mind must be confused. And because you are
not awake you are confused, but not lost. And you could say you have
been lost as long as you didn&rsquo;t know you were confused, because if
you didn&rsquo;t know you were confused, you didn&rsquo;t know there was
a call for correction. And you thought it&rsquo;s just the way
everything was, and therefore you were stuck.

So this is good news&mdash;essential news. And it ties in with what
we&rsquo;ve discussed about the necessity to be able to discern between
Truth and error, Truth and illusion. You see? You have to be able to
discern the difference, make the distinction, because without the
ability to make the distinction, you&rsquo;re stuck in whatever your
current mutually-agreed-upon definitions are.

Okay. Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
May I ask a question?
</div> 

You may.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So, the discernment &hellip; first the question, &ldquo;What&rsquo;s the
lilac?&rdquo; And then that discernment is that going along with what
you used to say is acknowledging what&rsquo;s Real, and that&rsquo;s
right there with the Atonement&hellip;
</div> 

Absolutely.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
&hellip; and then that&rsquo;s the first steps of moving into
creativity, out of perception.
</div> 

Indeed.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
The doorway.
</div> 

That is correct. It&rsquo;s also been called the &ldquo;little
willingness.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
It&rsquo;s a batch file. You do the one thing and it all executes.
</div> 

Indeed. Yes. Okay. Go ahead Michael.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I caught you saying that you must learn the discernment between Truth
and illusion.
</div> 

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And this is learned by constantly turning back to the Altar and asking
the Father?
</div> 

Absolutely.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And that&rsquo;s how the discernment &hellip; that&rsquo;s really to me,
that&rsquo;s not indicative of me becoming able to discern. It&rsquo;s
constantly giving my will over to the Father. So, by continuing this
practice on and on, you come to the point where you&rsquo;re able to
discern.
</div> 

You come to a point where you could say you find yourself Knowing with
the Father.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So it&rsquo;s like a joining.
</div> 

It is.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Eventually you begin joining with the Father so that it begins
permeating the veil, so to speak.
</div> 

Exactly. And then, then the act of an independent one joining with the
Father begins to fade and yield to the Father being all there is of you,
and it&rsquo;s no longer a you joining with the Father, or a you being
creative, or a you having achieved true creativity because that still
suggests a separation.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
It&rsquo;s more like a dissolving into.
</div> 

Than is correct, although that does not constitute a loss of the
experience of Individuality, and we will not go into that at this time.
But there is Conscious Individuality that is not any way separate from
God.

Okay. Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
CHRIS: Douglas from Australia asks, we&rsquo;ve been discussing sickness
and the body in the TGP Forum and he wonders, could you help him deal
with the discomfort in his mind he feels between knowing (or trying to
know) sickness is not real and as a paramedic having to deal daily with
the seeming reality of both sickness and the body?
</div> 

Ah. Yes. Well, your job, Douglas, is like mine. I am constantly, even at
this moment, dealing with people who are experiencing sickness of the
body or the mind, or suffering from mistakes or accidents, and so on.
But the point is not that your confrontation with these dynamics makes
them real, but that they provide you with the ongoing opportunity to cut
through the presentation, the appearance, by virtue of your willingness
to go within and to ask for the Father&rsquo;s point of view,
&ldquo;What is the divine Truth of this individual right now?&rdquo; And
you know what? You may find that as a paramedic, you will never end up
with anyone needing to actually be delivered to a hospital because they
will have been healed on the way.

Do not see these things as challenges, but rather ongoing opportunities
for you to relinquish your definition and the generally-accepted
definitions of such circumstances, so that you might be the agent for
change that heals, where transformation, regeneration and redemption
occur on the spot. In the meantime if transformation, regeneration and
redemption do not occur instantaneously, you value and appreciate your
having the opportunity to take every step possible, let us say, through
physical means to allow for regeneration and healing to occur, whether
that requires surgery, the setting of bones, or whatever. The point is
do not fret yourself over the presentation that seems to say that
Reality must be other-worldly and doesn&rsquo;t apply here.

I know that in spite of the confusion all of you are experiencing, it
isn&rsquo;t true. It isn&rsquo;t real. It isn&rsquo;t a challenge to me.
It&rsquo;s simply the ongoing opportunity to reflect back to you the
Truth, because I have gone to the Father to ask of the Truth about you.
And if you seem not to get it right away, I do not ask myself how
I&rsquo;m failing because you didn&rsquo;t see it instantaneously. And I
hang in there with you as you adjust to the best of your ability and as
quickly as you&rsquo;re able to allow yourself to let go of self-control
and yield to the authority and omnipotence of the Father so you can let
the Father be all there is of you. And you are not holding on to a right
to a private perception of yourself and thus blinding yourself to your
awakening, your already existing and living perfection. Okay &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
A separated or divided mind must be confused. It is necessarily
uncertain about what it is.
</div> 

*Because it isn&rsquo;t anything at all*. It&rsquo;s an imagination. It
can&rsquo;t be certain of what it is because there ain&rsquo;t no such
critter!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It has to be in conflict because it is out of accord with itself. This
makes its aspects strangers to each other, and this is the essence of
the fear-prone condition, in which attack is always possible. You have
every reason to feel afraid as you perceive yourself.
</div> 

Why? Because you&rsquo;re so horrible? No. Because you&rsquo;re not
looking with the Father. You&rsquo;re looking at everything from a state
of isolation. What is fearful is the dissonance you feel because of this
totally unnatural adopted perspective that you are choosing to believe
is true. And in feeling disconnected from the Father, from your
essential capital &ldquo;I&rdquo; Integrity, you cannot help but feel
uneasy. I&rsquo;ve talked before about the fact that this uneasiness is
your immovable, unchangeable Sanity letting you know you&rsquo;re off
the beam. Why? Not so that you can feel guilty for it, but so that you
can get back on the beam.

As you perceive yourself, or as you perceive anything by yourself, you
cannot help but be experiencing it in a state of fear, because looking
at it by yourself is not only unnatural, it&rsquo;s actually impossible.
And the attempt to do the impossible has a feeling to it, an
uncomfortable feeling. It tells you that you are doing something utterly
unnatural that you cannot actually succeed at.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is why you cannot escape from fear until you realize that you did
not and could not create yourself.
</div> 

There you go. And therefore this you that is feeling afraid, or this you
that seems to be bound by its definition, doesn&rsquo;t even exist. Now
that&rsquo;s the bottom line of your healing, whatever the healing is
that&rsquo;s needed.  Because if you can&rsquo;t do it and it
hasn&rsquo;t been done, then you are not bound.

And whatever you felt bound by can and must vanish without any process
to it, without refining your soul and living a few more lifetimes
inching your way up the spiritual ladder. There ain&rsquo;t no such you
to go anywhere. That&rsquo;s the bottom line.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You can never make your misperceptions true, and your creation is beyond
your own error. That is why you must eventually choose to heal the
separation.
</div> 

Indeed. And it&rsquo;s really, if you think about what&rsquo;s being
said and what we&rsquo;ve been talking about, it&rsquo;s really very
basic and very simple. When you&rsquo;re uncomfortable, you&rsquo;re on
the wrong track. And it means, get back on the right track. It means
you&rsquo;re trying to do something that&rsquo;s impossible. Stop
wasting your time. That&rsquo;s all it means. And so, when you find
yourself suffering, whether it&rsquo;s mild or whether it&rsquo;s
severe, it simply means turn back toward the Altar. Inquire of God to
know what the Truth is, rather than valuing and validating your own
definitions, and the definitions that you have agreed to with everyone
else.

Isn&rsquo;t it obvious that if this which is experiencing
misperceptions, having its own private perspective, were real, were
valid, it wouldn&rsquo;t have to gather around itself a bunch of others
to get mutual agreement in order to secure the truth of what he&rsquo;s
believing because there are numbers of others who agree.

The awakened Sonship does not indulge in mutual agreements with each
other. You might say that the Sonship mutually agrees with the Father
and yields to the Father. But as I&rsquo;ve said, once yielding to the
Father occurs, there&rsquo;s no longer any sense of separate identity,
of one in agreement with God. And Unity, Oneness, is the Truth known
that has no opposite, and therefore nothing experienced needing
correction. And that can come in glimpses. And when it does, you have
instantaneous healing.  And Douglas, you can look forward to having the
experience of instantaneous healing occur as you&rsquo;re driving that
person to a hospital for care.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Right-mindedness is not to be confused with the knowing mind, because it
is applicable only to right perception. You can be right-minded or
wrong-minded, and even this is subject to degrees, clearly demonstrating
that knowledge is not involved.
</div> 

Or you could say, Clearly demonstrating that Knowing with a capital
&ldquo;K&rdquo; is not involved. I am not correcting what is here;
I&rsquo;m implementing an understanding of the meaning.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The term &ldquo;right-mindedness&rdquo; is properly used as the
correction for &ldquo;wrong-mindedness,&rdquo; and applies to the state
of mind that induces accurate perception.
</div> 

Yes. You see right-mindedness is a stepping-stone to the direct
Experience of Truth, but you have to be able to make the distinction
between right-mindedness and wrong-mindedness. And that&rsquo;s why I
encouraged you last week that when you see someone during your day who
appears not to be well, don&rsquo;t just let it pass by and say,
&ldquo;Oh, poor dear, she needs to be home in bed.&rdquo; Or &ldquo;Boy,
I&rsquo;m glad I&rsquo;m not in her shoes today.&rdquo; Or whatever.
Correct it! Recognize immediately that this is illegitimate. It&rsquo;s
not the Truth. That&rsquo;s right-mindedness.

And then, ask to know what the Truth is. This doesn&rsquo;t mean that
you have to stop in the middle of your activities and take a half hour
to listen and wait for the answer and interrupt the flow of your day.
But it means, don&rsquo;t let these little moments, these little
opportunities to recognize the call for correction, don&rsquo;t miss
those opportunities. And take advantage of them, because, as I&rsquo;ve
said, every time you do that and express that right-mindedness,
it&rsquo;s the little bit of leaven that leavens the whole. And then as
you proceed on with your activities, you can still be listening.
Because, ultimately, what you want is not just right-mindedness.

The acknowledgement, &ldquo;Well, that&rsquo;s illegitimate about her. I
don&rsquo;t join in the idea that I&rsquo;m being invited to join with.
That&rsquo;s not the Truth about her.&rdquo; And then go on to do your
things and say, &ldquo;Father, I would like to experience the Truth
about her.&rdquo; You see?

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Raj, is it appropriate also to ask for blessing for that one in travail?
</div> 

You may, of course.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Well, the reason I&rsquo;m asking is I encounter, from time to time,
accidents along the freeway. And I encountered one the other day that
was pretty severe. In other words, the person was on the ground. And as
I was approaching it, my thought was to ask for a blessing for whatever
was transpiring then.
</div> 

Certainly. Yes. But I want you all to do more than that. I want you to
invite the direct experience&mdash;experience within yourself&mdash;of
what the Truth about that one is. I want you bringing everything that
we&rsquo;re talking about and reading about here into the level of
experience, and not just a surface acknowledgment of an idea of Truth.

You can say, &ldquo;Father, please help them.&rdquo; But then say,
&ldquo;Father, please help me to have a direct Experience of the Truth
about them.&rdquo; You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Does that mean that you would experience the pain and suffering also
that they&rsquo;re going through? I mean you&rsquo;re asking &hellip;
</div> 

That&rsquo;s not the Truth.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay. That&rsquo;s not the Truth. Then what you&rsquo;re asking for is
to experience their wholeness along with your own.
</div> 

Yes. You are asking for an Experience of Truth, with a capital
&ldquo;T.&rdquo; Not the truth of the human condition.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
That&rsquo;s what I want to be clear about that.
</div> 

The human condition is an illusion.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Right.
</div>

The accident, the injury, the suffering that appears to be going on
there is an illusion. It&rsquo;s an illegitimate imposition on that
Christ, that Divine One. And you want to know what the Truth is about
that Divine One.

When you ask to know the Truth, you&rsquo;re never asking to know the
truth about the human condition. &ldquo;Well, what is the condition of
my liver?  What&rsquo;s the truth about the condition of &hellip;&rdquo;
&ldquo;Well, you have a perforated liver.&rdquo; Well, how much help is
that?

You don&rsquo;t want to know what the truth of a thing is according to
the well-established mutually-agreed-upon definitions of everything. You
don&rsquo;t really believe that that&rsquo;s what I&rsquo;ve been
talking about when I say ask to know what the Truth is here. Because
we&rsquo;re talking about correcting illusion. We&rsquo;re talking about
correcting the un-God-like evidences of a human condition, so that we
might know the Truth of the Divine Condition and have a direct
experience of it so that it is a Knowing of the Truth, because Truth
known is the conscious experience of nothing present to be corrected.
And this is the important part because I hear a lot of students of the
Course and of metaphysics and so on saying the truth of the situation is
that there&rsquo;s nothing needing to be corrected. And they leave it
there without correction occurring!

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Right.
</div> 

When you ask for the Father to provide you with the direct Experience of
the Truth about that one, your experience of it has the direct effect of
causing transformation, regeneration and redemption to actually occur so
that you are no longer presented with the evidence of anything needing
correction, which means no more blood gushing out of a wound onto the
ground, no more opening in the skin, perfect flawless form identifying
the Presence of that individuality perfectly, flawlessly.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Then I&rsquo;m understanding you&rsquo;re saying then [that] is healing
in the manner in which you did when you were here 2,000 years ago. Now
we will be doing the same.
</div> 

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
This is how it was happening.
</div> 

That is how it was happening. And it was not, therefore, by virtue of
some personal authority I had different from any of you, or any of my
disciples, or anyone in the communities we were in. It had to do with
the fact that when you&rsquo;re not joining with the
mutually-agreed-upon definitions of the crowd, of the neighborhood, of
the community, of those in your synagogue, or your church, or your
political group, and you are asking the Father what the Truth is, you
are turning to the Altar, relying on something other than even your best
knowledge.

The experience is provided because you&rsquo;re joining with the Father.
And there&rsquo;s an experience to it that you call Knowing the Truth.
Not something you do mechanically. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m going to sit down and 
know the Truth
for a while. And the Truth is God is all, and I am His Son, and
therefore I must have been created perfect because He is perfect.&rdquo;
And you go through a logical process in your mind. You could call that
knowing the Truth.  That&rsquo;s not what I&rsquo;m talking about.

When you turn toward the Altar and you are willing to abandon your best
judgments, your best definitions, when you&rsquo;re willing to dismember
yourself, give up your membership in the group that is making the
mutually-agreed-upon definitions, and lean into the Father&rsquo;s point
of view, then you will be infilled with the Father&rsquo;s point of
view. And then you will find that you Know the Truth from the tips of
your toes, from the bottom of the depths of your Being, and it&rsquo;s
unalterable and unequivocal, and there&rsquo;s nothing unlike it. And
that is when the transformation, regeneration, redemption occurs.

And remember that the word &ldquo;redemption&rdquo; means bringing back
to its original form, or its original state. So redemption of a broken
limb, redemption of an injury, redemption of a sick body is for it to be
brought back into its original state of being the visibility and
tangibility of your individuality. And your individuality is God
expressed right there as you. And so, the transformation, regeneration
and redemption is a way of describing God being glorified in slow
motion, as though it were happening in time. Do you see what I&rsquo;m
saying?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yes. What I&rsquo;m hearing you say is that once we do this, we reach
within, we turn to the Altar, we go into our hearts and ask with no
pre-thought about anything, but ask, really ask, then we&rsquo;re
convicted in that moment of the Truth we join &hellip;
</div> 

By the Truth. Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And then we expect a miracle. I mean &hellip;
</div> 

No! The miracle is already done.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Well, okay, but to see the transformation &hellip;
</div> 

Forget about expecting a miracle. You can have the attitude of expecting
a miracle in the recognition or willingness to see that if you&rsquo;ll
turn toward the Altar, transformation, regeneration &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Oh. Okay.
</div> 

&hellip; and redemption will occur.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
We know that ahead of time.
</div> 

Right.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay.
</div> 

You could say that expect an attitude of expecting a miracle is
right-mindedness.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Oh. Okay. So being in that state already &hellip;
</div> 

Being in that state already means that there will be a willingness on
your part to turn toward the Altar.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Right.
</div> 

And desire to have an Experience of Truth that is described as Knowing
the Truth because the Truth has been revealed to you because you have
desired to have the revelation. And you&rsquo;ve desired to have the
revelation and you will allow the revelation to occur because you are
willing to abandon your allegiance to your best definitions and your pet
theories, and as I&rsquo;ve said, the pleasure of the sociability that
you experience with everyone who&rsquo;s in agreement with the
mutually-agreed-upon definitions. In other words, sometimes it causes
you to have to let go of a circle of friends because there has to be a
shift of allegiance from making other people happy to God.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I appreciate your emphasizing and taking time with this very important
point.
</div> 

You are welcome. Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
To take this one step further, if we can… how literal at the human level
will the miracle manifest if one person driving down the freeway sees an
accident, asks for the Father, shuts up, asks to see it as the Father
would have it &hellip; have us see it &hellip; wait for the answer.
Could one expect to drive off the freeway, go to the hospital, and see
the person whole? I&rsquo;m &hellip;
</div> 

One might.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
&hellip; trying to &hellip;
</div> 

One might see the person actually sit up and stand up there beside the
car in which they had the accident.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Does it take more than one person asking to see it to create the
miracle?
</div> 

No. It does not.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
If no one asks, does the human condition continue? I&rsquo;m not trying
to be provocative &hellip;
</div> 

No!

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
&hellip; whatever &hellip;
</div> 

If no one realizes that there&rsquo;s a call for correction, if everyone
thinks this is just the way life is and no one asks, then they will stay
committed to their current definition. &ldquo;This is just the way life
is.&rdquo; That phrase is a definition. If you think this is just the
way life is, you will be bound by that phrase, the meaning of those
words. You&rsquo;re saying there&rsquo;s nothing more. Nothing more than
this is possible.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
But if it&rsquo;s the Father&rsquo;s Will that that be the situation
just because &hellip;
</div> 

Absolutely not! Because, mind you, that the one who&rsquo;s sitting
there saying, &ldquo;There&rsquo;s nothing more to life than just this.
This is just life.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Is this the victim, the person &hellip; There are no victims. Is this
the individual who&rsquo;s in the accident?
</div> 

No, I am speaking of the person driving by. The person driving by says,
&ldquo;Uh, that&rsquo;s life.&rdquo; Or &ldquo;Uh, that&rsquo;s death.
That&rsquo;s just the way things are.&rdquo; If nobody asks, if nobody
recognizes that this is a perception rather than a knowing &hellip; in
other words that it&rsquo;s a misperception of Reality &hellip;

(PAUL: I&rsquo;m sorry. I lost it.)
{: .omit}

If one doesn&rsquo;t recognize that this is a misperception of Reality,
one won&rsquo;t ask to see more of what Reality truly is. And without
asking for more, that one stays in his isolated separated frame of
reference and he&rsquo;s bound by it. And unless the individual who was
in the accident, who&rsquo;s lying on the ground, asks God himself,
there won&rsquo;t be any change for him.

You need to ask for your Brothers. You need to ask to know the Truth
about them for them. Not only because it will bless them, but because
your caring enough to do that means that you&rsquo;re willing to abandon
your separate independent point of view that keeps you asleep.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
To take it one step further for clarification &hellip;
</div> 

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
&hellip; if I am to go home and ask to see my partner as perfect and
whole, and she is to also do that, if there&rsquo;s still a need for an
operation because the doctors think it&rsquo;s needed, have we failed to
ask or hear what the Father said? If we ask with a lot of
willingness&mdash;not just a little&mdash;I mean just how healing can we
&hellip; how much willingness does one need to create the suggestion
you&rsquo;ve been giving, you know. Who wouldn&rsquo;t do it?

Sure.

Did you want to answer this?
</div> 

Is it a relevant addition to his question?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
It is. It&rsquo;s something that happened to me. I watched a really
violent movie last week, &ldquo;American History.&rdquo; And
there&rsquo;s a scene that when I was going to bed that night was
replaying in my mind. It was disturbing to me. Even though you
don&rsquo;t see the outcome in the film, the outcome of what happens to
this person&rsquo;s head, but you know it&rsquo;s really awful.  Right.
And so, as I was laying there, it was disturbing me so much, and it felt
like, you know, I was tuning in with you and we were talking about it.
And I felt like you were showing me that if I was in &hellip; no, Raj,
that I was talking to you, Raj. That if I was in that situation, and
that even if that person&rsquo;s head had been, you know, destroyed by
another person&rsquo;s foot right in front of me, that there was a way
that I could be in that situation that was so &hellip; it was like his
head was whole, whatever it looked like, and if I was just willing to be
there with it, it like &hellip; it would all be different. And I felt
like I had a completely different feeling inside of me, like it was
completely restored. But it was the perception that was restored. It
wasn&rsquo;t his head. You know. In other words, his head was Whole,
Whole, Whole. You know?
</div> 

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And it was you saying I could get with that despite the whole, horrible
drama that was unfolding where people were upset and hurting each other
and violent with one another. And it gave me like this tremendous peace
to be able to go to sleep.

And I don&rsquo;t know if I was just hearing what I wanted to hear, or
if it was like a teaching, like a kind of thing.
</div>

Oh, it was definitely a teaching. Yes.

Now whatever the situation is, whether the situation seems to call for
surgery, or whether it&rsquo;s a relationship difficulty, whatever it
is, always keep in mind that the potential is for an instantaneous
correction, an instantaneous healing, I mean in a fraction of a second.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Potential.
</div> 

This is the potential. Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay.
</div> 

This is the real, actual potential. You may never have come across
somebody who has experienced an instantaneous healing, but they happen!
And so it doesn&rsquo;t matter whether it&rsquo;s a broken bone, a tooth
that&rsquo;s half gone, it doesn&rsquo;t matter. Instantaneously
correction can occur. Really.  Down here where you are today, or where
you think you are, right here in the middle of the Kingdom of Heaven
today, the potential is for all the Sons and Daughters of God that are
here to have instantaneous breakthroughs into the conscious experience
of their Divinity that will be experienced on the spot as redemption.
And I don&rsquo;t mean spiritual redemption, or psychological
redemption. I mean redemption of bones, redemption of teeth, redemption
of hair, redemption of the bringing back to the spiritual original of
what God is being there right where that one is.

Now, you ask, how long should you be willing to persist if you
don&rsquo;t see instantaneous healing? Well, try persisting as long as I
have. And what I mean by that is that&rsquo;s a very long time as you
count time. But you know what? What better thing do you have to do?

Infinite patience brings immediate results. When there is no impatience
present any longer, then what you are doing, you do because it&rsquo;s
what you&rsquo;re Being. And you could say that the doing that took
perseverance, you now do just because there&rsquo;s nothing else more
important, nothing else you&rsquo;d rather do than to be intent upon
glorifying God in everything you see, and glorifying God by desiring to
see God there, instead of what your well-developed definitions tell you
are there. They&rsquo;re not just yours. Your scientists think in terms
of mathematical equations, numbers, digits. And so their definition of
form, which is really the substance of Spirit, reflects the sieve, the
filter, that they&rsquo;re looking at It through and that has become
part of your definition of things; that your body is matter; that
everything you see is matter; that matter is subject to decay and change
and that it is vulnerable and blah blah blah. And so you take them as
authority and you agree with them. And that&rsquo;s part of your
mutually-agreed-upon definition.

But if you&rsquo;re willing to look at every form and consider the
possibility that its substance is pure energy and that the energy is
Spirit&mdash;capital &ldquo;S&rdquo; Spirit, one of the definitions of
God&mdash;that will open up the windows of Heaven to you because then
you can become curious to know what it really is with an expectation
that what you will discover will be wonderful. And it&rsquo;s easy to be
willing to discover wonderful things. You don&rsquo;t resist discovering
wonderful things. And the way I&rsquo;m talking right now is
right-mindedness. It doesn&rsquo;t accomplish the goal, but it sets you
in the right direction and allows curiosity to be present, so that you
can dare to abandon your acquired best definitions that have given you a
feeling of security, and turn toward the Altar, the UNknown, what
you&rsquo;re not sure of yet, so that you can ask to be infilled with
what you don&rsquo;t know yet and have the experience, the direct
Experience of Truth. And so you persist. You persist because
that&rsquo;s the only way to wake up. That&rsquo;s the only way to come
back into your Right Mind. That&rsquo;s the only way to undo the
separation that you believe you accomplished, but never did.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
To hear or see the Truth, know the Truth as the Father would have us in
a specific situation, and have a willingness that&rsquo;s more than just
a little willingness, and not confounding it by keep defining it and
saying, &ldquo;Father, this is the way it &hellip;&rdquo; you know. But
just continue with the prayer, to hold it. You holding the thought,
&ldquo;Let me see it as You would have me see it.&rdquo; By holding the
fact &hellip;
</div> 

Now &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Be patient.
</div> 

&hellip; let me just say this: Don&rsquo;t continue with that thought
over and over and over. You&rsquo;ve got to express the thought and shut
up. And &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And listen forever.
</div> 

And listen. Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
But &hellip;
</div> 

And maybe occasionally renew the question but let there be longer
periods of willing attentiveness to the answer.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay.
</div> 

Now there is one other aspect here. If you don&rsquo;t seem to have
instantaneous healing, then be willing to hear from your Guidance that
it&rsquo;s appropriate for the nearest approximation of transformation,
regeneration, redemption to occur, which might involve surgery at this
point. Because that&rsquo;s the closest within the mutually-agreed-upon
definition of what everything is that everyone has been able to get to
where there can be a manifestation of transformation, regeneration,
redemption.

Now, if in the surgery, some part of the body is removed, redemption is
still necessary.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And possible.
</div> 

Well, what&rsquo;s necessary must be possible. And so when awakening
occurs, let me just put it this way, everything that might seem to have
been taken away through processes that were lesser approximations of
wholeness and completeness, or lesser attempts to arrive at healing
through surgery or whatever, those things that were missing will be
there, will be returned. The redemption of what identifies your
Presence, your individuality perfectly, will be whole. The redemption
will be complete. And so if there was a finger that was lost or a leg
that was lost, it will be present. And you don&rsquo;t have to wait
until you die to find them returned to you.

I was going to say, &ldquo;My God! Be willing to expect a
miracle!&rdquo;

And that&rsquo;s what it &hellip; let your definition of miracle include
that kind of embodiment of God&rsquo;s perfection in a moment, in an
instant, and not as something that must take lifetimes to refine your
soul to come back into the full experience of.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So the process of removal that allows life at the human level could be
the miracle, even though that is not the way we would want to see it.
</div> 

That is correct. If you must read to connect with the Truth that will
heal and your vision is so poor that you can&rsquo;t read, then get
glasses and say thank you for the glasses that allow you to read so that
you can read the Truth that will promote the transformation that will
heal your eyes. Getting the glasses is not redemption but it allows for
redemption to occur.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So turning to the Altar, asking to see it, and being at peace with the
removal of surgery could be the Father&rsquo;s answer to my &hellip; Let
me see it as you would have me see it. The peace. The level of peace.
</div> 

There&rsquo;s a statement: Divine Love always has met and always will
meet every human need. The simple fact is that because you never left
the Kingdom of Heaven and you never stopped being the Christ, you never
stopped being the place where God is Presence-ing Himself, the Truth
about you, your Wholeness, the Truth about you that you are loved, the
Truth about you that you were never abandoned, remains the Truth, you
might say, right in the middle of your dream.

And so, because it is the nature and function of your Being to fulfill
itself perfectly, you will find the means within the dream for your
needs to be met as you come back Home. And so, you say, &ldquo;Father,
I&rsquo;ve asked to be infilled with the direct Experience of Your
Presence in her or in him. And I&rsquo;m not seeing it, and humanly speaking, there&rsquo;s a need
that needs to be addressed because she&rsquo;s bleeding to death, or
such-and-such a thing is keeping normal functions from occurring, and
there is a need for correction at some level. I&rsquo;m not seeing it in
terms of instantaneous healing. Should we take steps, humanly speaking,
to secure the ongoingness of her life so that, together, we can continue
to ask and have the experience of complete redemption, which would mean
the reappearance of what seems to be lost surgically?&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Normal functioning.
</div> 

Yes!

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Without the reproduction&hellip; 
</div> 

That&rsquo;s right.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Thank you very much.
</div> 

You are welcome.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
A long time ago, Raj, you said to me when I was beginning to make my
transformation to a practitioner of the healing arts, to be the
transparency and not to take the responsibility. And so whenever I feel
like I really want this to happen, I really want this healing to happen,
I recognize it that it&rsquo;s me taking responsibility and that I need
to let that go so that whatever truly should happen, in the Divine
Sense, can take place.
</div> 

That&rsquo;s right because any intent you have that you become intense
about becomes an opaqueness, a lack of transparency, that disallows for
God&rsquo;s Love to flow through you because you wish to be the servant
of the Father&rsquo;s Will. You cannot be willful about another&rsquo;s
healing. You must be willing to allow it. And, in order for that to
happen, you have to get out of the way as an ego having a want.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Stop it.
</div> 

Pardon?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
It will stop it.
</div> 

Yes. Because, at the bottom line, what the ego wants is it wants to have
healing at its hand. When you want it, you want it to be evident that
you accomplished it.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
The credit.
</div> 

Exactly. And that&rsquo;s where the opaqueness is. Okay &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is miracle-minded because it heals misperception, and this is indeed
a miracle in view of how you perceive yourself.
</div> 

Right-mindedness is miracle-minded because it heals misperception. It
heals misperception because its result is that you become infilled with
the direct Experience of Truth and this is indeed a miracle in view of
how you perceive yourself.

So, the interesting thing is that the correct perception of yourself at
the moment is that there&rsquo;s no you to have a perception at all and
that your assertion that you do exist as something capable of having
perceptions of Reality is a pure illusion, a mistake, a confusion
calling for correction. And so, at the bottom line, what we&rsquo;ve
been talking about today points to the need to open up to your Source so
that that which really constitutes your Presence, which is God, might
find room in your Conscious Experience of Being to be the illuminating
Presence of your mind and reveal Himself in You as You, and thus open
you up to the Experience of Reality, of the Kingdom of Heaven, of
unalterable perfection, and cause you to wake up.

Mind you, in the process, in the experience of the Kingdom of Heaven
that&rsquo;s currently being called the human experience rather than the
Kingdom of Heaven, you will appear to be an agent for change, and your
Brothers and Sisters will be healed. And you will find yourself healed.
But the improvement of the human condition is not the goal. The
improvement of the human condition is always the manifestation of God
occurring demonstrating that God is with you as an experience of being
Loved. And that experience of God loving you illuminates for you your
Divinity again at an experiential level of Knowing, which transforms
your mind and opens the door for more and more influx of the Conscious
Experience of Truth.

And so, in a way, it&rsquo;s a self-fulfilling movement of awakening.
And this is just the beginning of this section. There&rsquo;s more good
stuff coming.  But we will end here for today. Thank you.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Thank you.
</div> 

[^1]: T3.IV Error and the Ego
[^2]: Students commenting or asking a question.

