---
title: May 18, 2003
ref: T3.IV Error and the Ego
---

Good afternoon and welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
internet as well. And, again, today, if there are questions from the
internet, some of them will be addressed.

Let&rsquo;s go right into the book. And actually we will probably only
read the first paragraph and use it as a springboard. Would you do the
honors?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Perception always involves some misuse of mind, because it brings the
mind into areas of uncertainty. The mind is very active. When it chooses
to be separated it chooses to perceive. Until then it wills only to
know. Afterwards it can only choose ambiguously, and the only way out of
ambiguity is clear perception. The mind returns to its proper function
only when it wills to know. This places it in the service of spirit,
[where perception is changed. The mind chooses to divide itself when it
chooses to make its own levels. But it could not entirely separate
itself from spirit, because] it is from spirit that it derives its whole
power to make or create. Even in miscreation the mind is affirming its
Source, or it would merely cease to be. This is impossible, because the
mind belongs to spirit which God created and which is therefore
eternal.[^1]
</div> 

Perhaps the most important sentence in there says: &ldquo;But it could
not entirely separate itself from spirit, because it is from spirit that
it derives its whole power to make or create.&rdquo; And let&rsquo;s be
sure we understand the distinction between make and create.

Last week I suggested that the word &ldquo;up&rdquo; should be added to
&ldquo;make.&rdquo; &ldquo;Make-up,&rdquo; to make-up something, an
imagination. To make is what the mind does when it has separated itself
from the Father and experiences, or seems to experience itself as
independent, then it makes things. But the making doesn&rsquo;t
constitute Creation. Now the point is that not a single one of you has
ever stopped being the direct Expression of God.

Your apparent capacity to believe yourself to be independent, to be
unrelated to God by virtue of being at the end of a chain of evolution
that started with a big bang and all you are is the result of a joining
of a sperm and an egg, that is a made-up view of yourselves. And
everything you do on that basis constitutes a making of things, and as I
said, does not constitute Creation at all.

Now, it is still the Son of God making things as opposed to the Son of
God creating things. You have not become an ego. You have not become
what you think you are. And any power you have to draw a breath as a
human being separate from God is derived from the fact that at this very
moment you are the Son of God, the direct Expression of God, God
embodied. This is very important for you to understand because
it&rsquo;s in this way that you can understand what I mean when I say
you&rsquo;re having a dream on a grassy knoll in the Kingdom of Heaven.
At this moment you are exactly as you were created by the Father. This
is why an ego does not have to refine its soul to get back Home.
You&rsquo;re already at Home.  You&rsquo;re already the Son of God
pretending you&rsquo;re not and believing the pretension. If
that&rsquo;s clear to you, your awakening will be much simpler.

Even in miscreation, the mind is affirming its capital &ldquo;S&rdquo;
Source. You see that? Right now, you are, no matter how you see
yourself, affirming and being the Expression of God, but you&rsquo;re
doing it unconsciously. And as a result of doing it unconsciously,
you&rsquo;re goofing up all over the place. You are mis-creating, and
you are misunderstanding Creation.

The mortal dream of existence is what you experience when you make of
the Kingdom of Heaven something other than it is in your mind, and then
believe and devote yourself to your belief. But it&rsquo;s still the Son
of God confronted with and seeing the Kingdom of Heaven with all the
power and all of the glory of your Divine Being active, but occurring
unknown to you while you are devoted to your perception of it all.
Period.

The experience is an uneasy experience. It is an unpleasant experience.
It&rsquo;s an experience in which there are these things called sin,
disease and death. &ldquo;But, oh, you accept the challenge of trying to
overcome them&rdquo; instead of coming back Home where they don&rsquo;t
exist at all because they were only ever imaginary.

It is the Father&rsquo;s good pleasure to give you the Kingdom. That
statement only means something if you&rsquo;re in the mortal dream, the
made-up concept of existence and the made-up sense of yourself as being
separate because, divinely speaking, Creation is the undivided and
inseparable manifestation of All That God Is, which includes you, and so
Creation is the extension of you as well.

But if you have taken a stance of independence and you&rsquo;re choosing
to see things the way you want to see them, then the infinite embodiment
of What-You-Are/God-Is becomes something you stand in receipt of. The
very Presence of your Being becomes something separate from you that
can&rsquo;t become separate from you, and therefore, it can only be
understood as God&rsquo;s Gift to you.

But, you know what? The way the ego works, the way being is experienced
when you have claimed independence from the Father is that the Gift, all
of Creation, is also seen as independent of the Father. Independent in
this sense: The very scientific physical sense that the Universe has
nothing to do with God at all. It&rsquo;s purely physical and started
from a big bang. And everything about it is the natural evolution of
matter and the way matter works. Now the Gift has become separated from
the Giver. You see that?

Just as the one seeing the Gift separated from the Giver sees himself as
separate from his Source, thinking that he is the source of himself and
therefore has free will to be in whatever way he wishes without
accountability to any other part of Creation, and it&rsquo;s called the
capacity to be original and introduce something new into the human
condition. And then, this supposed capacity to be so independent that
one can be so original that something valuably new can be introduced
into the human condition becomes a source of pride.

Now, when you conceive of yourself as self-created, as independent from
God, as I said, it&rsquo;s an uneasy and uncomfortable experience. No
one enjoys it and everyone does want to escape from it. Everyone wants
to become free from suffering. And the manifestation of that independent
stance is called dis-ease, lack of ease.

But when one accepts the independence as valid and finds himself
experiencing dis-ease, lack of ease, discomfort, stress, and so on, and
takes these on as a challenge to assert his authority or her authority
as an independent authorizer and convinces himself or herself that in so
doing, it gives him or her greater credibility so that it becomes a goal
of great meaning and one makes commitment to quote &ldquo;making his
mark in the world,&rdquo; what he has made and therefore takes pleasure
in the suffering experience and the overcoming of it, that&rsquo;s not
dis-ease. That is sin. When one takes pleasure, finds gratification,
finds meaning in the dream and the overcoming of it by independent
means, that is sin.

And I&rsquo;m going to be very frank with you. The fact that
you&rsquo;re not awake means that you are all enjoying the challenge of
bringing your own unique independent viewpoint to bear upon life so as
to overcome these problems. You are in sin. And so, in this sense, the
traditional church, the traditional religious teaching that says,
&ldquo;you are all sinners,&rdquo; is true. But the way I have expressed
it comes from another direction. It doesn&rsquo;t mean you&rsquo;re
guilty and it has nothing to do with punishment. It has to do with
engaging in an activity that is erroneous that you believe is valid and
which you are taking pleasure in engaging with.

The healing of dis-ease and the healing of sin are different. Why?
Because you don&rsquo;t enjoy dis-ease. And many times dis-ease is
healed without your having to have any conscious awareness of what the
specific belief was that was manifest in the form of the disease. But
sin can only be healed when the specific pleasure that you are taking in
it is uncovered so that you may see what you are doing, and consciously
abandon it. And until it is seen and consciously abandoned, sin will not
spontaneously and miraculously disappear. This is very important to
understand.

In a moment.

Again, I am not using the word &ldquo;sin&rdquo; with the traditional
connotations.  All it is, is the commitment to an erroneous belief that
is done with pleasure and satisfaction that strokes one&rsquo;s ego,
thereby apparently strengthening it. To know that this is what it is,
means that you do not have to worry about retribution, about ultimate
penalties, because you&rsquo;re already experiencing ignorance of Home.
You&rsquo;re already experiencing ignorance of your connection with the
Father. There&rsquo;s no further penalty, and it&rsquo;s not a penalty
laid upon you. It&rsquo;s just that if you&rsquo;re not paying
attention, you&rsquo;re likely to stub your toe. So that&rsquo;s all the
extent &hellip; that is the extent of punishment, you might say, and it
doesn&rsquo;t come from any outside source, like the Father.

Understanding this will make it easier for you to awaken because you
will not be existing in a state of fear of the Father&rsquo;s wrath
because you have sinned. You see? And so you do not need to be
distracted by fear in the process of dealing with sin.

Yes, Michael?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
You indicated that if you&rsquo;re in &hellip; if you&rsquo;re not
awake, then you&rsquo;re living in sin. Is it possible that say that
you&rsquo;re at the bottom of the barrel and you&rsquo;re as surrendered
as you can be at the bottom of the barrel, is it possible at that point
to still not be awake but yet not be in sin because you&rsquo;re not
enjoying anything at that point. Like you don&rsquo;t want any more.
</div> 

No, you see, it&rsquo;s not the state of not enjoying anything at that
point that undoes anything. It&rsquo;s the state of not enjoying
anything and giving up &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Right. Right.
</div> 

&hellip; and yielding to the Father.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So what I&rsquo;m getting from this then is that if you&rsquo;re not
awake, there&rsquo;s still a part of you that&rsquo;s not fully
surrendered.
</div> 

That is correct.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So that even though we&rsquo;ve all been through the situation where we
feel like we&rsquo;re totally surrendered, there is a part of us
that&rsquo;s not totally surrendered. I mean I believe that each one of
us has hit the bottom of the barrel at one time or another, but yet,
here we are. We just .. I mean, we were at the bottom of the barrel but
now we feel that we&rsquo;re not at the bottom of the barrel, even
though, in reality, we&rsquo;re really nowhere.
</div> 

That&rsquo;s correct. Yes. You will find that you come to the
bottom of the barrel and you yield and there is transformation and there
is regeneration. And that doesn&rsquo;t mean that you&rsquo;ve risen in
the barrel. And there is a level of peace and a level of respite from
struggle. And then &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
That&rsquo;s seems to &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; the bottom of the barrel drops lower and you find that the
barrel was a deeper barrel than you thought.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And you feel better about yourself.

In other words, when I&rsquo;ve hit the bottom of the barrel and then
things seem to clear up &hellip;
</div> 

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
&hellip; and then I feel better about it &hellip;
</div> 

That is correct.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
&hellip; and then I don&rsquo;t feel as surrendered as I was before,
because I feel like, &ldquo;Oh, I&rsquo;ve really made progress.&rdquo;
And that kind of reinforces me not to surrender further. Do you see what
I mean?
</div> 

That &hellip; Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Because I feel better about myself.
</div> 

Yes. And it&rsquo;s natural to come to a new level of peace and
self-appreciation in the yielding. But then subtler levels of
willfulness, subtler levels of mutually-agreed-upon beliefs have to be
uncovered. And so the bottom of the barrel drops further and you become,
for lack of better words, more delicately attuned to the subtleties of
the ego that you couldn&rsquo;t even perceive at what I will call
grosser levels of ego structures.

And when the bottom drops out again, you think, &ldquo;Oh boy, and here
I had thought I had made so much progress, and evidently I haven&rsquo;t
made any progress at all.&rdquo; But that is an illusion. You have made
progress. And now there&rsquo;s further progress to be made, further
yielding which now you are prepared to engage in, or better prepared to
engage in, because you&rsquo;ve already yielded up so much control and
learned how valuable it has been not to be in control that there&rsquo;s
less resistance to abandoning even subtler levels of control that you
heretofore were unaware you were utilizing.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Each time the bottom of the barrel drops down a little bit further, does
that mean that your suffering has to be turned up more or is it less or
is that all dependent on how you handle it? In other words, what you
choose as far as your way to perceive it?
</div> 

Well, suffering is always equal to the amount of resistance to God you
are introducing into the picture.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So it&rsquo;s a real time thing? The more you resist, the more painful
it feels. It&rsquo;s not like there&rsquo;s a &hellip;
</div> 

Of course.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
It&rsquo;s not like two steps forward, one step back, or one step
forward, two steps back. It all depends on what&rsquo;s going on
&hellip;
</div> 

Of course.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
&hellip; in the moment. I see. Thank you.
</div> 

Now obviously if when you have claimed independence from the Father you
have narrowed your focus of attention down because you&rsquo;ve abandon
the infinite view, every step of awakening, you could say, is going to
involve greater, fuller, more glorious views, I&rsquo;ll say, of
Reality. That part sounds very desirable to you. The part you may not be
aware that you will want to avoid is the apparent responsibility to
embrace it consciously because it appears to you that it requires you to
be more conscientiously conscious than you&rsquo;ve ever been before.
And that terrible word &ldquo;work&rdquo; looms its head. &ldquo;Oh, if
this is awakening and it&rsquo;s natural to my being, it shouldn&rsquo;t
seem like work!&rdquo;

Well, what&rsquo;s natural to you does seem like work if you have
managed to push the wholeness of you out of the picture and the
wholeness of your capacity to be aware out of your experience in favor
of a much smaller dimension of everything, and so it does look like more
work. It does look like not having any free time to just let go and
relax because there&rsquo;s so much to be conscious of. And
there&rsquo;s a tendency to want to fall back into &hellip; mmmm
&hellip; fuzziness.

Now, awakening is a process of learning. I mean you&rsquo;re going to be
changed from the way you&rsquo;re experiencing yourselves. You&rsquo;re
going to know things that you had forgotten. And in that sense
you&rsquo;re going to re-learn them. You&rsquo;re going to reincorporate
them into your Conscious Experience of Being. And in the
reincorporating, you will seem to change. Learning means change.

Now those of you here at least have been engaged consciously in what you
have called an awakening process and so you have been studying
yourselves, you might say, you have been examining your motives. You
have been examining your beliefs. You&rsquo;ve been examining your
concepts to see whether they&rsquo;re serving you. And then you have
been willing to consider the possibility that none of your concepts and
beliefs serve you well at all and therefore you are willing to reach
beyond them to the Father for His Guidance.

And so, all the way along this apparent process of awakening, you have
been faced with the correction of your ignorances by virtue of their
being replaced with what I&rsquo;m going to call clearer and clearer
experiences of Truth. You, yourselves, privately, individually,
I&rsquo;m going to say, have looked for those places in you which call
for correction, and if you have made any valid progress, you have been
willing to uncover not only your beliefs that promote dis-ease, but the
false pleasures in illusion that you have been committed to for the
purpose of self-satisfying ego-building. And so you have all engaged in
uncovering sin in yourselves.

If you have made progress, it is because you have allowed what you would
have kept secret to be uncovered to you so that you might see it
clearly, so that you might make the distinction between illusion and
Truth so that in the clarity of the distinction, you can abandon your
commitment to illusion. Right?

Okay. For the most part since we have been going through the Course and
for the most part as most students of the Course have studied it, they
have and you have, taken this as a course of study about voluntary
individual growth as though the answer to all problems is an entirely
private individual affair and that your doing that will be sufficient to
change the world. And, as a result, you&rsquo;ve ended up still being
private, still being separate from the world. And yet, we&rsquo;ve
discussed the fact that you are the salvation of the world.

Today is sort of like a &hellip; when you take chemistry, you have three
days a week of class work and then two days a week of lab work so
today&rsquo;s a little bit of lab work. Okay.

We&rsquo;ve talked about involvement, haven&rsquo;t we? We&rsquo;ve
talked about being present with and for your Brother. We&rsquo;ve talked
about turning back to the Altar so that you might be infilled with the
Father&rsquo;s perspective which it&rsquo;s your Birthright to be
experiencing because the Father&rsquo;s Mind is your Right Mind. And
what? The fact that in order for what the Father reveals to you to have
meaning will occur only when your desire to know the Truth is on your
brother&rsquo;s behalf. You can&rsquo;t get the goodies from the Father
for yourself privately! It&rsquo;s simple. It&rsquo;s un-reversible.
It&rsquo;s unchangeable.

If you want the blessing of the Father&rsquo;s point of view,
you&rsquo;ve got to ask for it for someone else. You have to have an
object of your affection and you&rsquo;re not a sufficient object of
your affection. Because if you could be the sufficient object of your
affection to experience the Father&rsquo;s Will and wake up, you could
leave everybody behind and still be separate from everyone because there
had been no caring, no extension of Love, no involvement, no unity. And
I&rsquo;ll tell you, Unity with God does not mean an absence of Unity
with your Brothers and Sisters. You can&rsquo;t have Unity with God and
leave your Brothers and Sisters out. It&rsquo;s like talking about dry
water. There ain&rsquo;t no such thing!

Now, when your Brother or Sister is ill, experiencing dis-ease, your
turning toward the Altar, your refusal to accept what your conditionings
cause your eyes to see in a Brother and your decision to turn toward the
Altar to learn of God what the Truth is, not about that person&rsquo;s
problem or their particular dis-ease, but the Truth about them as the
Son or Daughter of God. As you do that, healing can occur.

But if that individual is suffering from sin, you&rsquo;re put in a new
position, a different kind of position. When you turn to the Father to
learn the Truth about them, the Truth about them will be the truth that
will help them release their fascination with and devotion to the
pleasure that they&rsquo;re getting out of indulging in believing an
illusion.  And you will have to be a teacher. You will have to uncover
the sin. You will have to not keep your mouth shut and say,
&ldquo;I&rsquo;ll let them work it out for themselves.&rdquo; In effect,
you&rsquo;re saying &ldquo;Oh, I&rsquo;ll let them suffer a little
longer, even though if I spoke up and uncovered it, it could lead to
their instantaneous recovery, or at least more rapid recovery, because
what they&rsquo;re keeping hidden from themselves will be brought out at
least for them to accept or consciously reject again.&rdquo;

Awakening is a process of education. And so, your having an object of
your affection, a Brother or a Sister, and your caring enough about them
to turn toward the Altar to learn of God what is the Truth about them,
will provide you with what it takes to be bold enough to not join in
keeping the sin hidden, keeping the sin secret, keeping the pleasure,
the false pleasure in something that is binding them still hidden, still
covered up.

I&rsquo;m constantly uncovering to you your illusions. And so it&rsquo;s
obvious to you that illusions and devotions to illusions can be
uncovered without insulting you, even though at times I know I bother
you.

Now as I said as we&rsquo;ve been going through the Course, we&rsquo;ve
been talking about these principles as they relate to you individually
and your own inner work. But you exist in a Brotherhood and you&rsquo;re
not an island. And your devotion to your Brother, your Love for him and
your Love for your Sister requires that you involve yourself with
courage. And when the Father reveals to you what needs to be uncovered
and impulses you to engage with your Brother on behalf of his release,
it will require you to abandon the inclination to let each one work out
his salvation on his own and speak up and involve yourself. Involve
yourself and cast your vote on behalf of Truth, which is the Truth about
them that can and will undo their bondage to their devotion to the
pleasure they think they&rsquo;re getting from, I&rsquo;m going to say,
independence and the further establishing of it.

Now, if you look at yourselves, if you look at yourselves honestly, you
will be aware of all the arguments you have used to avoid looking at the
Truth; all the excuses you have, all the justifications and the
arguments you have employed. And so you must be practical enough to
understand that you are going to meet resistance in the uncovering of
that which another wishes to keep secret and who feels that the
uncovering of the secret will jeopardize them, damage them, injure them,
rather than release them. And you must be willing nevertheless to care
enough to voice the Truth without indicting that one.

Now, another aspect of this that you must understand so that
you&rsquo;re not surprised. I&rsquo;ve spoken before about the crab
barrel theory where a crab tries to crawl out of the crab barrel and the
other crabs grab it back and that&rsquo;s why there don&rsquo;t need to
be any covers on crab barrels. First of all, the mutually-agreed-upon
definitions that you abide by have arisen out of a mindset, an
imagination, that you can be independent and that you are independent
and therefore you are a person, private person with a boundary. And this
person is flawed. And you all mutually agree between yourselves that you
are flawed and you all mutually agree that you will use each
other&rsquo;s flaws which you all know about to keep each other in line.
Right? That&rsquo;s just the rule of the human condition.

Now, when you have been willing to abandon a personal sense of yourself,
when you have been willing to say, &ldquo;I desire to see things outside
of the box of my personal sense of things. I intend to yield to the
Father.  I am willing to let the Father in.&rdquo; And you let that
infilling occur, and you begin to have your illusions revealed to you,
and you set them aside and you grow and you exercise less and less
control, you move into, for lack of better words, an arena where the
word &ldquo;personal&rdquo; doesn&rsquo;t apply to you because
there&rsquo;s less and less boundary to it and it&rsquo;s more and more
infinite, more and more all-inclusive.

And the simple fact is that by the time you arrive at a point where
you&rsquo;re able to yield to God and feel the infilling of
enlightenment and greater clarity to the point where you can distinguish
between Truth and illusion and make the choice, and none of this
activity in you has anything to do with personal authority or personal
control, you are able then to know when to speak in an educational way
to a Brother or Sister to uncover the secret that great pleasure is
being taken in.

And when you do, the response is likely to be to call you back into a
personal sense of yourself. In other words, they&rsquo;re likely say,
&ldquo;Well, that&rsquo;s just your opinion,&rdquo; belittling the
clarity. But it isn&rsquo;t just belittling the clarity and the more
infinite view. It is a ploy to re-engage you in a habit newly released
by you of responding to everything from a personal level, a personal
sense of yourself. And because your familiarity with those responses
isn&rsquo;t far enough in the past for you to not be hooked by at all,
it is possible for you to be hooked and then abandon the more infinite
view in order to defend yourself.

Another response could be: &ldquo;Well, you&rsquo;re just afraid.
You&rsquo;re actually acting paranoid. You&rsquo;re seeing awful things
everywhere.&rdquo; In other words: &ldquo;You&rsquo;re crazy. Your mind
is not functioning well. You are at fault for what you are
seeing.&rdquo; And again, you see what it does? It calls a personal
integrity into question. And if any of you have seen [the movie]
&ldquo;Back to the Future,&rdquo; you know that the main character could
not resist responding unintelligently to the suggestion that he was a
chicken.

The suggestion that you&rsquo;re an ego, when you are not coming from an
ego place, is something that you are subject to reacting to because your
habit of acting as an ego is not far enough in your past for you to be
free of the knee-jerk response to a personal ego &hellip; a personal
attack in the sense of re-igniting in you the dynamics of being an ego
and the need to defend yourself.

Now, I could give you more examples, but it is important for you to
understand that regardless of the variation in the examples, all of the
varied things, because those who know you will use what they perceive to
be your weaknesses, and they won&rsquo;t be the same for each person.

But the point is that when you have been willing to do the work to
abandon your own egos, to not validate them, to not resist them, but to
turn your attention undividedly to the Altar desiring to know of God
what the Truth is and becoming undefended enough to let the Truth infill
you, you become more stable. Your experience of peace is more grounded.
Your feeling of invulnerability is more secure.

And because you are not bouncing off of your own ego reactions, it can
then be a surprise when you extend Love to another to have them try to
reengage you in your old habits of ego reactions. And you need to be
practical enough to know that it&rsquo;s inevitable that that&rsquo;s
going to happen, so that you&rsquo;re not surprised and not sidetracked
from being able to be an agent for change because you can make the
distinction between what is illusion and what is Truth.

And because you can make the choice for Truth and make commitment to it
and voice it to your Brother or Sister, so that you say, &ldquo;No, I
will not join you in that. Yes, I will join you in this. Will you join
me in the Truth about you? Will you bear with me long enough to hear
what will release you from the suffering you&rsquo;re
experiencing?&rdquo;

Oh, but another ploy is, &ldquo;Well, you&rsquo;re the one who&rsquo;s
causing me my suffering.&rdquo; And of course what they mean is,
&ldquo;You&rsquo;re uncovering what I need to keep secret, because my
keeping it secret is what keeps me safe.&rdquo; And they will say,
&ldquo;What you&rsquo;re doing is not love.&rdquo; And what you have to
be clear about is that keeping silent and letting the secret remain
covered, that is what is not love. But again, this means involvement;
this means what the other person would call butting into their business.
And it means when you are dealing with sin, meaning the pleasure in
keeping a secret, the pleasure in engaging in and embodying a lie which
you will not let anybody else see, but which you revel in doing.

It means that their accusative response pointing the finger at you and
saying, &ldquo;you&rsquo;re not being love and therefore you can&rsquo;t
possibly be hearing God and this is all your ego,&rdquo; that when they
do that, you&rsquo;ll take it. And you will stand there in the face of
their distress without flinching and without abandoning the Truth that
you know that they need to know so that their suffering can stop. And
you teach them. And you say, &ldquo;No, here is the Truth.&rdquo; You
care enough to hang in there and re-educate, because that&rsquo;s the
only thing that will correct sin. You see what I&rsquo;m saying?

This is not a private work. Your clear correct perception or your clear
correct experience of Truth can heal disease and death instantaneously
as I did, but sin requires education. And education requires
involvement. One-on-one involvement.

You must understand that in order for the private personal ego sense of
itself to survive, it must defend itself against its non-existence being
uncovered. And therefore, it will aggressively protect itself. And it
will protect itself by unscrupulous means. It will not protect itself
intelligently, reasonably, kindly, but always by unscrupulous means.

Now, am I saying this that you might know that you are faced with a
deadly enemy, or at least is nothing less than malicious and therefore
you ought to be afraid? No. Because it&rsquo;s still nothing. But you
must understand the way it works so that you are unequivocal with it,
because it will attack your integrity, either directly in your mind or
out of the mouths of others, and cause you to doubt yourself because
it&rsquo;s only when you doubt yourself that it can reign freely.
It&rsquo;s purpose is to keep you from remembering Who You Are because
when you remember Who You Are, it will cease to seem to be anything.

Now you must understand this, not so that you might see just how starkly
the opposites are opposed to each other, because these are not
opposites. It&rsquo;s Something and nothing! Those are not opposites.
It&rsquo;s God and nothing. But you must understand that because the ego
is imagined and is not real, it cannot gather anything to substantiate
its existence that has substance. And it, therefore, operates with what?
It operates with the discomfort, the bell that rings when the truck is
backing up.

The warning bell, your innate Sanity that tells you that: &ldquo;When
you&rsquo;re not connected with the Father, you are in territory that
you need to be alert to so you don&rsquo;t accept it as real and you get
back Home as soon as possible because you&rsquo;re attempting to do
something impossible.&rdquo;

It [the ego] takes that uneasiness and says: &ldquo;It has nothing to do
with your remembering Who You Are. It has to do with the condition of
existence. And you know what? You have the capacity to overcome it by
strengthening yourself and feeling your integrity and your personal
power. And so I will help you enhance your sense of personal power in
your privateness in order to overcome this uneasiness.&rdquo;

Which can&rsquo;t go away because it&rsquo;s your innate Sanity saying:
&ldquo;You&rsquo;re playing with impossibilities here. You are playing
with what would cause you to not be fully conscious.&rdquo; And your
innate Sanity provides you with the warning so that you might stop.

Okay. If you understand that this is the way the ego works, and that it
succeeds only by making you feel personally vulnerable as a tiny
personality. It will even try to convince you that all you are is a
personality and that everything you&rsquo;re seeing is your creation.
And if you&rsquo;re seeing something you don&rsquo;t like, it&rsquo;s
your mis-creation, et cetera. And it undermines your capacity to see
that there&rsquo;s an absolute difference between what is Real and what
is illusory. So absolute that what is Real is the Only And All That
There Is, and what is unreal is non-existent.

So when we&rsquo;re talking about glorifying God in everything you see,
we&rsquo;re talking about something that&rsquo;s far from passive.
Something that&rsquo;s far from private and uninvolved. Something where
you call a spade a spade.  Something where you don&rsquo;t mince words.
And where the education, the loving persistent expression of what Truth
is, is presented. And a clear-cut expression that, &ldquo;this
isn&rsquo;t true, this isn&rsquo;t appropriate, this does not serve you,
this is illusion,&rdquo; gets voiced because it&rsquo;s part of the
educational process of making the distinction. And it provides a
requirement for the individual who wants to believe that anything goes
and that there is no black and white, it provides them with the
inability to believe that unchallenged.

The lie has to be challenged. I&rsquo;m challenging the lie every time I
speak with you. And the Course is challenging the lie in the world
whenever anyone reads it. It says, &ldquo;There is another way to look
at this.&rdquo; And it&rsquo;s not just a point of view. It is not just
the perspective of the author. There is a God. There are absolutes. And
there is nothing else.

There is black and white, and white cancels out black so there&rsquo;s
only white. But there&rsquo;s not fuzziness. There&rsquo;s not
ambiguousness. And to the degree that you do not make the distinction
between Truth and illusion, and protect Truth by proclaiming It out loud
and loving your Brother enough to join in an educational process, you
will be promoting ongoing nebulousness and you will not be glorifying
God. You can&rsquo;t keep your mouth shut. And you must call a lie a lie
and you must call the Truth true. And you must, if you&rsquo;re going to
be an agent for change, and if you&rsquo;re going to be the salvation of
the world, you must declare yourself declaring God.

And now I&rsquo;ve brought you face to face with the dirty word
&ldquo;work!&rdquo; I&rsquo;ve brought you face to face with the fact
that as you open up to more, it&rsquo;s going to seem like there is more
responsibility, more to be conscious of. &ldquo;God, do I have to be
that alert? Do I have to be that conscious? Do I have to be so on the
ball that [snaps fingers] in the moment something happens, I can reflect
God back? Don&rsquo;t I get a rest?&rdquo; What you mean is,
&ldquo;Don&rsquo;t I get time to be fuzzy and unconscious?&rdquo;, as
though being conscious and the presence as an active agent for change is
not natural to you and is not easy for you. Because it is natural for
you, it is easy for you, but you&rsquo;ve been practicing, let us say,
that you can be conscious at warp speed, but you&rsquo;ve been
practicing traveling at only 5,000 miles an hour where you didn&rsquo;t
have to pay as much attention and you could see the sights &ldquo;at
your leisure, Ohhhh.&rdquo; You see?

Warp speed is natural to you. And you will find that it&rsquo;s natural
to you when you&rsquo;re willing to come out of the closet, when
you&rsquo;re willing to get off the couch, out of your easy chair, out
of your mentally fuzzy thinking and actually be conscious with God for
yourself and your Brother so that none of capital &ldquo;C&rdquo;
Creation escapes your notice. And so that the wholeness of you
doesn&rsquo;t escape your notice.

You know what? You&rsquo;ve got to stop giving rights to the human
condition.  You&rsquo;ve got to stop giving rights to the human
condition. &ldquo;Ah, well, they&rsquo;re only human. You know,
we&rsquo;re bound to have terrorists. You can&rsquo;t get rid of
terrorists. Everybody has different points of view and there&rsquo;s
always going to be terrorists.&rdquo; Bullshit! Stop being lackadaisical
in your mind. Stop giving rights to the human condition.

The human condition is an illusion! It can&rsquo;t be given any rights
because it doesn&rsquo;t exist. But to the degree that you&rsquo;re lazy
and sloppy in your thinking and give it rights and you say, &ldquo;Well,
there&rsquo;s nothing you can do about that. Ah, you know what? The best
thing to do is leave it alone, and it&rsquo;ll go away.&rdquo; No, it
won&rsquo;t, because the ego is intent upon preserving itself and
undermining and getting rid of that which will disclose its
non-existence. Leave it alone and it will secure more and more ground by
virtue of mutually-agreed-upon definitions of more and more people who
are valuing their illusions.

And as long as it&rsquo;s going on over in the Middle East, or as long
as it&rsquo;s going off some distance away from you, you can for a while
say, &ldquo;Just ignore it. It&rsquo;ll go away.&rdquo; But you know
what? That&rsquo;s not the way the ego works. The ego is squeezing God
out. Not successfully. But that is its motive because only in the
absence of God can an illusory self seem to have any presence and
existence. You see that?

You know what? Don&rsquo;t speak up and the human condition will expand
until it&rsquo;s on your doorstep, in your face, aggressively
undermining whatever peace you have been able to achieve by virtue of
un-involvement because you were at a distance. And now you will be faced
with the call that I&rsquo;ve been giving you today, a call for
correction that I&rsquo;ve been presenting to you today. Not because
there&rsquo;s a threat out there, but because you want to wake up. And
you&rsquo;ve said you want to wake up and you&rsquo;ve said you want to
be an agent for change. That you do want to glorify God. And you
don&rsquo;t glorify God passively by un-involvement and not magnifying
the lie by pointing it out, uncovering it. It will arrive at your
doorstep and then you will have to do what I&rsquo;m saying today
because it will be overwhelming. It will be in your face.

Now, I&rsquo;m not suggesting that you&rsquo;re on the threshold of
Armageddon. I&rsquo;m not suggesting that you&rsquo;re on the threshold
of a great war--inner or outer. I&rsquo;m not describing anything any
worse than is going on at this very instant. At this very instant
you&rsquo;re not awake. You&rsquo;re the Sons and Daughters of God,
whose Mind is your Right Mind. And the contents of that Infinite Mind
are by Birthright yours, and you&rsquo;re not experiencing it. And you
will not regain the experience of them through some private spiritual
process of waking up.

Now I&rsquo;ve said that the only thing the ego can&rsquo;t defend
itself against is disregard. So, does that mean that as long as you
disregard the ego, you can go along your merry way and everything will
be hunky-dory? No, because you&rsquo;re not awake yet! Because
there&rsquo;s something else to do besides not defend yourself against
the ego by disregarding it. The something else is to want to wake up, to
want to come back into your Sanity, to want your Right Mind which never
abandoned you, but which you compartmentalized so that the majority of
it was out of sight, so that It might be restored to you.

And what I&rsquo;ve shared with you today will help you deal with the
way the ego will attempt to distract you from your desire to come back
into your Right Mind so that you won&rsquo;t be surprised and shocked
that it&rsquo;s happening. And so that you won&rsquo;t be afraid of it
when it&rsquo;s happens. As well as illuminating the fact that when your
Brother or Sister is caught in the pleasure of an indulging in an
illusion and wanting to keep that covered up, if you don&rsquo;t want
the effects of what they&rsquo;re covering up to eventually encroach
directly on you in your face, you&rsquo;ll uncover it with Love and with
education. And you won&rsquo;t be afraid to say, &ldquo;This is
wrong,&rdquo; and, &ldquo;This is right.&rdquo;

You know, you grew up. You were a child and you looked forward to the
day you were twenty-one when you would be emancipated from your teachers
and you would graduate into being independent. Not realizing that it
wasn&rsquo;t independence at all but was a shift into a responsibility
to be cooperative with the whole. Yielding to that which blesses the
whole and that at no point was there the freedom to be like a wild
cannonball careening without any order, or path, everywhere and anywhere
it wanted to go with no intelligence to it whatsoever.

The belief was that when you got to be twenty-one, you wouldn&rsquo;t
have to do any more learning. You would have learned enough to be able
to function without any more information, directions, rules, crammed
down your throat that you would have to abide by. And so it&rsquo;s very
difficult for many so-called adults to adjust to the fact that society
and circumstances, and so on, place requirements on them. And they have
to change, if they haven&rsquo;t been willing to cooperate with the way
things work. And, well, the fact is learning goes on. And as long as
learning of Truth goes on, change occurs in you, and you grow and you
become something new.

Your desire not to be told what to do or how things work, your desire to
be free of having to cooperate with the way things work, fuels your
resistance to telling other people the Truth, telling other people that
there&rsquo;s need for change. That this works and this doesn&rsquo;t
work, and therefore, you need to start doing what works. Being the Voice
for Truth.

&ldquo;Well, I grew up. I got away from home. I&rsquo;m making a living.
I&rsquo;m supporting myself. I&rsquo;m paying my way. I&rsquo;m not
leaning on anyone. No one has a right to tell me anything.&rdquo; Not
true.

And once it dawns on you that it&rsquo;s your job to witness for your
Brother and Sister, to be there with them and for them on their behalf,
and that they&rsquo;re there for you, they&rsquo;re there with you for
the same reason, when that becomes clear to you, you will stop being
afraid to open up your mouth and say, &ldquo;Stop this now. This works.
Do that.&rdquo; As long as everyone thinks they have the right not to
have to learn anything new and change, you will continue to have
evidences of chaos and confusion in your relationships, in your country,
and internationally.

I said a little earlier that you would have your chance to ask
questions. I&rsquo;m not going to, because I want what I&rsquo;ve said
to sit there undiluted by comments and where the questions might lead
us. And next week, at the beginning, if you have questions relative to
what I&rsquo;ve said today, we will take time for that because, to tell
you the truth, I hope you do have questions. I hope it moves you to the
consideration of uncomfortable things, which will cause you to have
questions that will be less fuzzy than you might otherwise have had, and
because of their focus will lead to answers that will be even more
illuminating.

Do you know how much I love you?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yes! We love you too!
</div> 

I look forward to being with you next week.

[^1]: T3.IV Error and the Ego
[^2]: Students commenting or asking a question.

