---
title: May 25, 2003
ref: T3.IV Error and the Ego
---

Good afternoon. Welcome. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us
on the internet as well. I sort of gave everyone some homework last
time. And, so, I will open it up to questions, arguments, whatever was
prompted by our meaty discussion last week. I&rsquo;m not surprised,
Michael, that you have a question.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I want to thank you for Jim&rsquo;s healing. And not that I played a
part in it, but I was surprised at some of the things I said to him.
[^1]
</div>

Heaven forbid that you played a part in it!

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Oh, Heaven forbid! You know. But it was fun to watch as he got so
irritated with what I was saying until he finally left the room because
I couldn&rsquo;t agree with his dying. And so I just thank you.
</div> 

You are welcome. And I thank you for speaking up. I thank you for being
involved.

There you go, Michael.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Good afternoon, Raj.
</div> 

Good afternoon.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
It seems it&rsquo;s been a long time since we had a little talk. We
talked last time about not keeping quiet when we see sin, in that we
bring it to the attention of the other person, and which I guess you
could say that that&rsquo;s rocking the boat because it flies in the
face of mutually-agreed-upon concepts. There have been a couple &hellip;
I have a couple of different positions that I work at &hellip;
</div> 

That must be uncomfortable.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Well, for a yoga teacher, it&rsquo;s not. But one of them was as a
trainer at a local health club. And there was a head trainer there who I
felt was totally coming from his ego in the way he was managing the
staff there was not fostering growth, let&rsquo;s put it that way. What
I&rsquo;m trying to do here is I&rsquo;m trying to get a feeling for
what it&rsquo;s like to say &ldquo;No.&rdquo; So what happened was, I
said, &ldquo;No,&rdquo; to this fellow over a point of &hellip; At first
I would say, &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t think that&rsquo;s going to
work.&rdquo; Or &ldquo;Maybe there&rsquo;s a better way to do
that.&rdquo; And got no result. And then, when I felt that I was being
held back, I basically said, &ldquo;No!&rdquo; and lost that particular
position at that club.

The reason I bring it to a personal level is because what happened
was&hellip; it wasn&rsquo;t like I turned to the Altar and said,
&ldquo;Father, how should I handle this situation?&rdquo; It came from
me spontaneously. It was like a spontaneous &ldquo;No!&rdquo; There
wasn&rsquo;t even an instant of thought. It just welled up and got out
before I could contain it, because, had I thought about it, I might have
stifled it. The question that I have is, was that an instant of saying
&ldquo;No,&rdquo; or was that an ego dynamic?
</div>

That was an instant of your standing in your integrity. The
&ldquo;No&rdquo; was not calculated to have an effect.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I was surprised at myself afterwards, actually.
</div> 

Indeed.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I felt like I had lost it, you know what I mean, lost my cool.
</div> 

But you did not.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay, which brings the next point. This is a Course In Miracles card.
You know they have these little cards that you pull out of the box. And
this might also help to clear it up. It says, and this is in the Text
on page 156, according to this card, it says:
</div> 

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is not up to you to change your brother, but merely to accept him as
he is. Any attempt you make to correct a brother means that you believe
correction by you is possible, and this can only be the arrogance of the
ego.
</div> 

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So, even though we&rsquo;re not to page 156, this kind of can create,
created &hellip; this is something I keep on my refrigerator, so this
kind of created some confusion to me in when is saying &ldquo;No&rdquo;
or calling to your Brother&rsquo;s attention the proper thing to do,
and when is it arrogance of the ego which is kind of related to the
last &hellip; what we just talked about.
</div> 

Your saying &ldquo;No&rdquo; to your superior was not arrogance. Again,
it was a simple, spontaneous utterance of honesty from your integrity.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Where &hellip; what I mean &hellip;
</div> 

You were not correcting him. You were stating your position.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I see. That&rsquo;s true. Yeah. That was the feeling of it.
</div>

Now, you are not to correct a Brother. I think that if you&rsquo;ll
listen to the discussion last week, that nothing was said about
correcting a Brother. You correct the belief. You correct the
misunderstanding. You correct the ignorance through education. If you
were to correct a Brother, it would mean that you would say that he was
wrong, when it&rsquo;s the belief that&rsquo;s wrong; the illusion that
is being taken as real. That process is wrong, but that which is
engaging in the process is not wrong.

A child in 4th grade is learning mathematics and he makes a mistake on
his paper. And his teacher says, &ldquo;No. That&rsquo;s incorrect.
That&rsquo;s wrong.&rdquo; That&rsquo;s not making the child wrong, but
it is uncovering an error that needs to be corrected. And then the
teacher says, &ldquo;Here&rsquo;s how to do it correctly, so that you
come up with the right answer,&rdquo; and provides education. If the
teacher says, &ldquo;Oh, Johnny you&rsquo;re no good at math, and you
never will be,&rdquo; now the teacher has made Johnny wrong.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Thank you. I understand. Thank you.
</div> 

You are welcome. Remember that this section is called &ldquo;Error and
the Ego.&rdquo; They&rsquo;re inseparable, but they&rsquo;re totally
separable from every one of you because you&rsquo;re not the error,
you&rsquo;re not the mistake.

In a corporation amongst the officers and supervisors and so on, there
can be a problem that&rsquo;s causing a blockage in the flow of the
business.  And the possibility is through ignorance that somebody says,
&ldquo;Ah, he&rsquo;s the problem,&rdquo; making a particular manager,
himself, the problem, when it&rsquo;s not the manager, but a
misapplication of principles. You see? You don&rsquo;t correct a
Brother. It&rsquo;s never about correcting a Brother.

If you misunderstand the statement that you read on that card, you will
be convinced that it&rsquo;s a good idea to keep your mouth shut.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yes.
</div> 

Well, shall I take this book back? This book is a correction. Should I
have kept my mouth shut? Should Helen not have listened? Should it never
have been published? No.

Correction is called for if you are ignorant of the fact that you are
operating under ignorance. A wife is cooking in the kitchen. The cat
walks into the kitchen. The wife is working at the stove and the cat
sits down right behind her, tail neatly laid out where it will be
obviously stepped upon when she moves. Should you keep your mouth shut?
Enlightenment is needed. Awareness of the situation needs to occur. Do
you not want to interfere for fear of telling the wife what to do, or
doing something that the cat should do for itself? This isn&rsquo;t
difficult.  Correction is called for because none of you are awake. And
the provision of correction of the belief, or the concept, or the
mutually-agreed-upon definition that isn&rsquo;t serving you in your 
awakening, needs to be uncovered because you care, because you don&rsquo;t 
want the cat to suffer from the wife&rsquo;s ignorance. You don&rsquo;t 
want the wife to have something to feel sorry for because she accidentally 
stepped on the cat&rsquo;s tail. And you have the overview that neither 
one of them has that can resolve the potential problem. That&rsquo;s Love.

The reason you turn toward the Altar and inquire to know what the Truth
is, and inquire what is needed here that will effect the correction,
means that you are turning to a place where the Truth may be known from
a larger vantage point. And therefore, what you say to correct the
situation or the potential harm will be able to be heard without
suggesting that it&rsquo;s a stupid cat, or that the wife ought to be
paying more attention than she is and not be so preoccupied with the
boiling pasta. You see? The integrity of neither one of them needs to be
called into question in the process of providing clarity that will
spontaneously produce harmony.

Again, as we said last week, as we discuss these things, you need to pay
attention to the resistance that arises in you to involving yourself in
being the salvation of the world by opening your mouth and protecting 
the Truth by declaring It, rather than remaining silent and allowing the 
illusion to persist longer, when it doesn&rsquo;t need to.

Why don&rsquo;t you want to open up your mouth? Why don&rsquo;t you want
to be an agent for change?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Safety. Safety. We feel we put ourselves at risk. That&rsquo;s what I
felt.
</div> 

Aha! So, it&rsquo;s a matter of wanting to save your ass.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Correct.
</div> 

That is the definition of sin. Because you don&rsquo;t have an ass to
save&mdash;a private, personal one. But you believe you do, because you
think you&rsquo;re separate. And you&rsquo;ve got to protect the
so-called integrity of this independent one.

And you do it with commitment, you do it with fervor, you do it with 
emotion. You have attachment to your ass. And that attachment to an 
illusion is sin. And so you must take a look at this.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So you&rsquo;re not trying to change us because we&rsquo;re changeless.
You&rsquo;re just calling the illusion to our attention so that we have
the opportunity to choose again.
</div> 

That&rsquo;s right. Like a teacher seeing Johnny gazing off in the
distance through the window and she says, &ldquo;Johnny!&rdquo; She
calls to get his attention back, not to say he&rsquo;s bad and not to
say that what he&rsquo;s looking at is improper, but to bring his
attention back to where he is.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Thank you.
</div> 

You are welcome. Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
More on that Raj. My experience is a lot of times we fail to speak up is
because we&rsquo;re irritated by what it is we&rsquo;re seeing, and if
we speak up from that frame of reference, we know we&rsquo;re going to
get a bigger load back of crap. So, viewing the discrepancy from a
different vantage point, which is wanting to be helpful, is gonna mean
everything. It&rsquo;s the dynamic of what we&rsquo;re looking &hellip;
how we&rsquo;re looking. It&rsquo;s the lens through what we&rsquo;re
looking at everything. Because if you&rsquo;ve judged your Brother, you
can&rsquo;t face him.
</div>

That&rsquo;s right. Judgment has nothing to do with the correction that
we&rsquo;re talking about.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Right. But, most people cannot view error without judging it.
</div> 

That is correct. But that doesn&rsquo;t mean that you should abandon
recognizing error.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
No. No. I understand that. I&rsquo;m just saying &hellip;
</div> 

I&rsquo;m just adding that.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yeah, because I&rsquo;m just saying the big problem we &hellip; most of
us have from speaking up is because we&rsquo;re not aware that
we&rsquo;re irritated.
</div> 

And often the reason you&rsquo;re irritated is because the error you see
in them that they&rsquo;re getting away with is something you&rsquo;re
not able to get away with and you&rsquo;re jealous. You are not really
interested in correction. I&rsquo;m not speaking of you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yeah, I understand.
</div> 

&hellip; specifically. You want the same right, and what you&rsquo;re
mad at is you can&rsquo;t get away with it and they can. So there are a
whole lot of elements here.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
A whole lot of dynamics to go with that.
</div> 

So, if you&rsquo;re willing to see a call for Love that presents itself
as negative behavior as a call for Love, rather than a call for
correction that really means punishment. The word
&ldquo;correction&rdquo; has gotten a little bit distorted.
There&rsquo;s a Department of Corrections, right? It&rsquo;s called
jail. And so the word &ldquo;correction&rdquo; has a negative
connotation as punishment. You see? And that&rsquo;s not what correction
means as we&rsquo;re talking about it here. The call for Love is an
illumination of a call for correction. Correction amounts to addressing
the belief, the concept, the mutually-agreed-upon definition that is
blocking one from experiencing What he truly divinely is. And so you 
provide the information that corrects the misunderstanding, the ignorance.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
You illuminate the Truth. Or you &hellip;
</div> 

Exactly. And it&rsquo;s called glorifying God. That&rsquo;s another way
of describing it. So you must understand the practical aspect of
glorifying God. It means opening up your mouth and expressing the Truth
that shows the error to be erroneous, and therefore, not valuable, so
that the one who was acting on the basis of error can easily say,
&ldquo;Well, I&rsquo;m not going to do that any more!&rdquo; And
correction has occurred. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Last summer when I was having trouble with my job, I couldn&rsquo;t stop
speaking up. I just kept speaking up. It&rsquo;s interesting what you
said, it&rsquo;s because of not &hellip; of being jealous that I
couldn&rsquo;t get away with what he was doing? I&rsquo;m confused.
</div> 

No. That is sometimes the case &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Oh.
</div> 

&hellip; with people. Not in all cases.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay. Now I&rsquo;ve forgotten my question. I was very angry when I said
&ldquo;No&rdquo; to him.
</div> 

That was what you thought. You thought you were angry, but you were
feeling the definiteness of the integrity of your Being, and it felt
powerful. You made the assumption that anytime that you felt that
powerful, it had to be the emotion of anger. And it wasn&rsquo;t.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Others gave me feedback that, &ldquo;You shouldn&rsquo;t really do that.
You shouldn&rsquo;t speak up. And you know, I just put up with it. And
you know, what difference does it make?&rdquo;
</div> 

Of course. The mutually-agreed-upon definition rule is: Don&rsquo;t rock
the boat. Don&rsquo;t stand out.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
But then that doesn&rsquo;t help correct the problem.
</div> 

Of course not!

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
It keeps it. It keeps it.
</div> 

Exactly!

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And they&rsquo;re all still working there and nothing&rsquo;s changed,
except for I&rsquo;m happy. [laughing] [audience laugh]
</div> 

Indeed.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay.
</div> 

Okay.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Thank you.

My experience this last week, without &hellip; as I was called upon to
go and meet a moment back east, the situation was a little
uncomfortable, but then I meditated on that I&rsquo;m there only to be
helpful and to go with an attitude of Love. I was able to greet the
person that I really didn&rsquo;t want to talk to and say some things
that I felt needed to be said. And I&rsquo;m hoping this made a
difference, because it turned out I wasn&rsquo;t needed for what I
thought I was going to be needed for. So, I&rsquo;m asking if that, my
experience this last week, was helpful?
</div> 

Absolutely.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay.
</div> 

You expressed intelligence. You expressed Love. You weren&rsquo;t
mealy-mouthed. And you spoke about the Truth, instead of about
someone&rsquo;s bad behavior and how bad that made them.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Thank you. I was trying to get a feel for this. Right. When you&rsquo;re
on the firing line [laugh] and there wasn&rsquo;t too much time to get
out a whole lot of stuff, I&rsquo;m hoping I got the right points out
that I felt in my heart needed to be made, and I know there&rsquo;s more
to follow up with that.
</div> 

More than what you got out was a spirit of Brotherhood that you were
embodying. And I&rsquo;ll tell you: That was more impactful than the
specific words you said.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Excellent. Because it appeared to be an adversarial situation, like I
was on one side of the fence, they were on the other, but I really
didn&rsquo;t feel that from my vantage point.
</div> 

And that was actually no part of the interaction.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Thank you. I appreciate that.
</div> 

You are welcome.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Just as a follow-up. When I was called on the carpet for my actions at
the health club, one of the things that was really felt that I had done
really inappropriately was that when I said &ldquo;No,&rdquo; it was
said in front of members, health club members. So it was like as an
employee, you should do this all behind closed doors. And, you know, I
can understand not wanting to make clients uncomfortable. But it
wasn&rsquo;t like, I mean the moment &hellip; it was at the moment. In
other words, the moment was there and it was spontaneous. So that it
&hellip; And the owner said to me, &ldquo;And you made a lot of people
uncomfortable.&rdquo;
</div> 

Oh, mmm, hmmm.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So, I mean, you know, these other people, they didn&rsquo;t know what
was going on. They didn&rsquo;t know what it was about. But it &hellip;
</div> 

That was a projection on the person&rsquo;s part who said, &ldquo;You
made everyone uncomfortable.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Right. Right.
</div> 

He was wanting to save his ass and not look bad. He didn&rsquo;t want
his club to look bad. He didn&rsquo;t want to give the wrong impression,
et cetera. But you see the nature of sin is that it wants to keep itself
covered up, and so then it wants the correction to also be secret. You
see?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yeah. I get it.
</div> 

And that isn&rsquo;t the way correction works.

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
CHRIS: There&rsquo;s a question on the internet from Carol that asks
what love has to do with it since it&rsquo;s just another attraction for
us like magnetism and gravity, and our brothers are so unlovable for the
most part.
</div> 

Are so unlovable?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
CHRIS: Yeah. For the most part.
</div> 

What does love have to do with replacing ignorance with understanding,
illuminating an error to be an error rather than a Truth so that one
doesn&rsquo;t labor under it any longer? It&rsquo;s love because it
lifts another into a greater experience of harmony and out of the
bondage of suffering that is the inevitable result of acting on the
basis of ignorance.

Where&rsquo;s the love in telling the wife, &ldquo;the cat&rsquo;s right
behind you, don&rsquo;t step back&rdquo;? It corrects an ignorance that
she&rsquo;s experiencing at the moment that could lead to an
uncomfortable situation for her and for the cat. And perhaps she might
be carrying the hot pot of pasta to the sink when she steps on the
cat&rsquo;s tail and everything goes onto the floor with greater injury.

The replacement of ignorance with fuller conscious awareness of the
circumstances, the replacement of error with Truth is Love because it
releases you from suffering. It&rsquo;s that simple.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
May I just &hellip; one last comment. The interesting quality about that
confrontation was that afterwards I walked up to the head trainer and I
said, &ldquo;I have nothing personal &hellip; (this is like a few days
later after the tempers, or the emotion, cleared) I have nothing against
you personally, and I hope now that this is behind us (because I&rsquo;d
already been relieved of the position) that we can be friends.&rdquo;

And the distinct quality about it is, you know how sometimes you get
angry at someone and you feel the hate against them personally? That was
never there. It was never against the individual. That was the real
different quality that I noticed. So many times I&rsquo;ve gotten angry
at people and I hate that son of a gun. And that was never there. I
could see their ignorance in operation. It was almost like he&rsquo;s a
manager, but he doesn&rsquo;t have the experience. And I could feel that
and know that ten years from now as he got the experience, he would look
back on that and say, &ldquo;You know that son of a gun was right about
what he had said.&rdquo; And he looked at me and said, &ldquo;I
didn&rsquo;t think you liked me.&rdquo; It was like a revelation to him
because he took it as a personal attack, as opposed to just what he had
done. His actions weren&rsquo;t appropriate as a manager in bringing
together people like you would bring a small child along in their
learning type of thing. And that was the distinctive quality about it.
And I just wanted to say that.
</div> 

Indeed. Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I think the more comfortable we are with ourselves and the more that
we&rsquo;re able to love ourselves and others, that when we say
&ldquo;No&rdquo; that it appears to be more graciously felt than
clumsily where other people are kind of feeling, you know, like
it&rsquo;s abrupt. I just think as we practice more and we become more
into, you know, love and you know what I&rsquo;m trying to say. We get
better at it and more appropriate with each other where we don&rsquo;t
shock each other.
</div> 

Yes, but you&rsquo;ll also find when you are turning to the Altar first,
what you end up knowing to share comes with a feeling that will find its
way into your expression as well, so that you won&rsquo;t be as awkward
as you would be if you were personally privately trying to correct
someone else based upon the force of your own made up integrity and
righteousness.  You see?

Now, just because you see a call for Love, just because you see
something that calls for correction, does not mean you&rsquo;re the one
to do the correcting. You can&rsquo;t make that assumption. You have to
go within and ask.

There are times, for example, when I&rsquo;m responding to
someone&rsquo;s question and it&rsquo;s something that Paul and I have
discussed earlier, or that I&rsquo;ve discussed with others in great
detail, and he knows there&rsquo;s a whole lot more I could say. And
when I&rsquo;m through, he&rsquo;ll say, &ldquo;Aren&rsquo;t you going
to say anything about this? Or aren&rsquo;t you going to take it
there?&rdquo; And I say, &ldquo;No.&rdquo; Because what I&rsquo;ve said
has been enough for the person I&rsquo;m speaking to. And to go further
would be overwhelming. You see?

So you must ask first. You don&rsquo;t want to become a zealot
who&rsquo;s going to go out and be the salvation of the world without
knowing where and when and when not to speak. You see? Because then you
do not become a force for good. You become a force for force. You see?
And that will draw resistance. And that will not transform. If you see a
call for Love, if you see a call for correction, if something happens
that bothers you, you go within and you ask, &ldquo;What is the Truth
here?&rdquo; And then you also ask, &ldquo;Am I to participate in any
way in the correction of this? Or is what you have shared with me all
that I need to be involved in at this moment?&rdquo; You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Is there a time when you feel connected and close with God that you
already know when you come from that place without turning and asking
God?
</div> 

No. There&rsquo;s never a time that you are close enough to God that you
will feel what is right to do without feeling Him over your shoulder. I
want that to be very clear. It is too easy to become disconnected again
by assuming that now you&rsquo;ve got the hang of it and you&rsquo;re so
in tune with God that you don&rsquo;t have to be sure the connection has
been made. Let me put it this way: Until you&rsquo;re awake &hellip;
until you&rsquo;re awake, make sure the connection has been made with
God, or with your Guide, or with the Holy Spirit, and that you are
listening to what One of them is saying and that you are responding to
what One of them is saying.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So would you suggest then in every situation, in every contact with
another person?
</div> 

Oh, I would indeed! I would dearly love &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
You would.
</div> 

&hellip; to have every single one of you embrace that. Why
wouldn&rsquo;t you? I mean &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Because we all seem like we&rsquo;d be stalled!
</div> 

Ahh. And there might be less arguments, less fights, less wars, less
unpleasantness, less suffering because there would be more silence.
That&rsquo;s a very good point. You might find yourself stalled. Yes.
You might.

And if you let yourself be stalled, if you will give yourself permission
to be stalled, then because it&rsquo;s uncomfortable to be in the
not-knowing place, you will listen more attentively. &ldquo;Well, I
can&rsquo;t afford to be stalled too long. Everybody&rsquo;s waiting for
an answer.&rdquo; A response is needed. And if you are going to refuse
to respond from your habitual mindsets, then you&rsquo;re going to
listen a lot more attentively and you will get the answer much more
quickly.

The whole point of this is to break your isolation, to break out of the
cocoon that has you separated from everyone else.

If, as I said yesterday, you have the choice to be in the world from
that Place of Excellence in you, why wouldn&rsquo;t you do it? Why would
you opt for less than excellence that you know is going to screw
something up somewhere. Where&rsquo;s the payoff? There isn&rsquo;t any.

So adopt a new way of Being on Purpose. Adopt a new way of Being on
Purpose [softly] without being on a purpose of your own. Being on
Purpose means yielding to capital &ldquo;P&rdquo; Purpose, the
Father&rsquo;s Will, the Will of that Place of Excellence in you that is
the Father.

We&rsquo;re talking about the word &ldquo;correction&rdquo; and
we&rsquo;re talking about the fact that when it comes to sin, the
pleasure people take in being ignorant and overcoming it, and the
commitment they have to it because of the ego satisfaction &hellip;

(PAUL: I lost it.)

The correction, if correction does not mean punishment but education,
means that correction will come as an expression of the ideas that
correct the problem that are presented in an attractive way. Good
education teaches something new, something before unknown, in a way that
is interesting.

So rather than sitting here and telling you all about your faults, I sit
here and talk about the potentials, if you will, the capacities you have
and what new directions will do for you in terms of enhancing your
experience, and confirming for you the benefit of continuing to move in
the new direction that benefits you more. You see?

But, in order to find interesting ways to express the new ideas, you
have to care enough about the person you&rsquo;re educating to do it.

When a teacher says to Johnny, &ldquo;you&rsquo;re no good at math,
you&rsquo;ll never be any good at math,&rdquo; all that teacher is doing
is saying, &ldquo;I have arrived at a point where I don&rsquo;t know how
to inspire you to embrace greater capacity than you&rsquo;re currently
letting be expressed by you.&rdquo; You see?  He&rsquo;s lost his love
for the expansion of this child&rsquo;s experience. So that&rsquo;s
where the love is in it, Carol, and all of you. Did anyone else have a…

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
You used an example last week of the crabs in the barrel. And you said
what will happen is you&rsquo;ll say to someone, &ldquo;I offer you this
correction.&rdquo; And they say, or look at what you&rsquo;re doing when
you do this and they say, &ldquo;Well, that&rsquo;s just your
opinion.&rdquo; And I think that&rsquo;s exactly how you said it too!
&ldquo;That&rsquo;s just your opinion.&rdquo; And what&rsquo;s the
response to something like that? Because it&rsquo;s like arguing
&hellip; I mean, do you just say, &ldquo;Well, you know, you can say
that if you like,&rdquo; and just turn around and walk away. Or do you
just look at them with love and compassion or &hellip; because
that&rsquo;s a common defense. I&rsquo;ve heard that so many times. When
people say, &ldquo;Well, we all have our own realities.&rdquo; You know
something like that.

How do you respond to something like that? Because the person is just
blocking. They&rsquo;re just in denial. It&rsquo;s obvious.
</div> 

You&rsquo;re just going to have to listen on the spot for the answer to
that &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Obviously.
</div> 

&hellip; because, and that is not a cop-out on my part &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
No, I understand.
</div> 

&hellip; because what will specifically cut through that will have to be
revealed on the spot. Because two days later, if that person makes that
same remark, it&rsquo;ll be a different response that will cut through.
I&rsquo;ll tell you one thing: You don&rsquo;t bother getting offended.
Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
CHRIS: There&rsquo;s a question from Mark on the Forum, says, &ldquo;I
turn to the Altar and ask but I&rsquo;m still afraid of being judged by
others in the illusion when comes time to share what I&rsquo;ve
heard.&rdquo;
</div> 

Indeed. And you know what? You&rsquo;re simply going to have to screw up
enough courage to go ahead and share it in order to find out that
it&rsquo;s not going to create great negative reaction. You know, when
you listen for the Voice for Truth within, the Voice for Truth is also
the Voice for Love. And so, it finds a way to express Truth that is
nurturing. And even though you&mdash;because of your habit of limiting
your self-expression&mdash;find yourself called upon to say something
you would not otherwise normally give yourself the freedom to say, you
must dare to go ahead and express it. So you can find out that the ax 
will not fall and that Love, for the most part, will prevail. And this 
will help you have more courage on successive occations. But you must 
start to invest the trust in the Voice for Truth that you hear enough to 
voice it.

If you wish to play it safe, then voice it in circumstances where you
feel less threat. Practice, let us say, in milder circumstances. But you
must dare to risk the chance that there is a God. You must dare to risk
the chance that it&rsquo;s the Voice for Truth and the Voice for Love
that you&rsquo;re hearing and give it expression so that you may find 
that the world does not collapse around you.

When any of you are very resistant to what I&rsquo;m saying, I never
broadside you with the Truth. I finesse you gently, delicately. I curry
your favor, you might say. Love curries your favor. Love curries,
nurtures your friendship by not threatening you, but still managing to
find a way to say what will provide clarity that you&rsquo;re needing.

So dare. Dare to risk the chance that Love will prevail. It&rsquo;s like
you&rsquo;re afraid to jump in the lake because it might be cold. Well,
jump in the lake. You&rsquo;ll survive. And the next time it won&rsquo;t
be so hard to jump in the lake. And maybe it is cold, but you&rsquo;ll
find out you survive and you can do it with a little bit more
willingness each successive time. So the answer is risk the chance,
Mark.

You don&rsquo;t think, in the beginning, that Paul felt like he might
end up being the fool. You don&rsquo;t think that he thought he might 
just be making it all up and the farce would be uncovered in front of 
everybody. But I didn&rsquo;t ask him to go in front of everybody at 
first. I just talked with Susan. And then I just talked with Susan and 
Paul&rsquo;s mother. And then with Susan and Paul&rsquo;s mother and a 
good friend who had a lot of curiosity questions.  And then six months 
later, I said to him the words he will never forget: It is time to go 
public. Meaning let others, strangers ask questions.  And so it was still 
one-on-one with more people.

And then there came a time when somebody said, &ldquo;Can we have a
Gathering?  I have a bunch of friends who would love to get together and
be able to ask questions.&rdquo; But by this time, the little thresholds
of concern Paul had, and doubt and fear, had been passed over. Now it
was a new threshold. It would be a group of strangers. But he had become
solidly connected with me in this process and was able to stay with me.

And then, after a number of years while he had been doing this with his
eyes closed, I said, &ldquo;Okay, this time we&rsquo;re going to do it
with your eyes open.&rdquo; And Paul was afraid that seeing
everybody&rsquo;s faces, to be able to see whether they&rsquo;re
scowling or smiling or nodding or shaking their heads would be a
distraction that he had been free of. But he opened his eyes and got
past that.

So Love will nurture your ability to hear and to share in gentle
progressive steps. Remember that. All of this is done in an atmosphere
of Love. And turning every situation to your advantage and the advantage
of everyone you become involved with, but you must dare to risk the
chance by exposing, you might say, this capacity that others might call
craziness.

And of course the ego says, &ldquo;to abandon your own authority, your
own self-determination is irresponsible and crazy.&rdquo; And yet, the
fact that you are not joined, the fact that you are experiencing an
illusion of separation, is creating for you what&rsquo;s called the
human condition, and that is hell.

Okay. Any other hanging thoughts or questions about what we discussed
last week?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Just one other incident that I&rsquo;m still unsure about. And if I let
the moment pass, I&rsquo;ll keep thinking about it. So here goes. There
was another instance where I was teaching a yoga class at an
organization and I was teaching at a certain fee, X say. And then one of
the other teachers asked me to substitute for her, so I said,
&ldquo;Sure.&rdquo; And she was teaching at a lower fee which I told
her, &ldquo;You know, you should charge more because you&rsquo;re worth
it.&rdquo; So when she asked me to substitute, I charged for the lower
fee. Say why? Okay. Then the owners of that organization came and said
to me, &ldquo;We&rsquo;d like you to take over her class on a permanent
basis.&rdquo; And I said, &ldquo;Well, I would be glad to do that, but I
will not teach it &hellip; take it for the lower fee. You have to pay
the higher fee.&rdquo; And they said to me, &ldquo;Well, why?&rdquo; And
I said, &ldquo;Well, if you look around on the peninsula, I&rsquo;m the
only male yoga teacher. And the reason is because all the female yoga
teachers have a partner that helps support their family. But this is not
a working wage, so I couldn&rsquo;t take this class without doing a
disservice to every yoga teacher who wants to make a living out of
teaching yoga.&rdquo; Okay. So they said, &ldquo;Well, we&rsquo;ll think
about it and see if we can find it in the budget.&rdquo; And then they
said, &ldquo;Well, we&rsquo;re going to get somebody else to teach that
class.&rdquo; Then my &hellip; so but I felt like I was coming from
integrity. But then, I thought the students who were in that class,
okay, who were &hellip; we were really developing relationship between
us, because even when I teach yoga, I teach the Course. And I thought,
&ldquo;I am actually depriving them of the ability to be able to
interrelate with someone who teaches the Course.&rdquo; And then I said,
&ldquo;Well maybe I&rsquo;m making too big a thing out of this principle
thing about money and that kind of thing.&rdquo; Do you see what I mean?
</div>

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So, so basically, when I did go to the Altar what I got back was,
&ldquo;Just keep your position and let the chips fall where they
may.&rdquo; But yet, I had these second thoughts afterwards about
severing relationship with all these students, who &hellip; when
you&rsquo;re a teacher, you grow to love your students, as you know.
</div> 

When you say keep your position, what do you mean?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I mean as teaching this class, my position as, you know, continuing to
teach that same &hellip;
</div> 

For what?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Pardon me?
</div> 

For the lower price?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
For the lower price. Right. Exactly. Exactly. I mean I still go &hellip;
teach there once a week. But, you know, it&rsquo;s like anything else,
the more you practice, the better it is.
</div> 

So your Guidance said what you didn&rsquo;t expect: To do it for the
lower price even though it violated a principle.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Ah, that&rsquo;s what I&rsquo;m not sure of. The Guidance that I thought
I got was that, &ldquo;Just stick to where you&rsquo;re &hellip; to
asking for the higher price and let the chips fall where they
may.&rdquo; That&rsquo;s the feeling that I got from it, because, I
thought, for the difference of a few dollars, why wouldn&rsquo;t they
want to have me there? I mean I was drawing a large class.
</div> 

I understand. The simple fact is that all of the reasoning you went
through was irrelevant. And when you asked and heard, that was what was
relevant, whether you can explain why or not. Because you are where you
belong and you are fitting where you fit into, what I&rsquo;m going to
call, the larger orderliness.

And if you had applied logic and reason to it and acted on the basis of
that, you would not have been where you belonged. You must, all of you,
start trusting your Guidance. Even if you mishear, you must practice,
practice, practice, in order for the experience of hearing to be refined
and clarified. And you were hearing correctly. I will confirm that to
you.

Okay. Let&rsquo;s go to the book.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I wonder&hellip; I have a question &hellip;
</div> 

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Still on the issue of last week.
</div> 

Absolutely.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And specifically the one &hellip; the paragraph that we looked at. It
seemed to relate. The thought was triggered by Michael&rsquo;s last
comments.  I was struck reading over that paragraph by the distinction
made between perception and knowing. And it seems for all of the to-ing
and fro-ing, the mental gymnastics gone through before one arrives at a
response often is based upon perceptions.
</div> 

Absolutely.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And is contrasted it seems to be essentially a passive, receptive
process taking information in on an ego level, but not accessing the
Source of Knowledge or Knowing which is a connection in a Loving Place.
Seems to be based entirely differently.
</div> 

Absolutely.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And that seems to be a key distinction: whether we approach the
conditions of this existence by observation and perception, or by a
prayer of Knowing and Love.
</div> 

Well put. Well put. Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I heard that first reaction, the spontaneous &ldquo;No.&rdquo; I mean
that was a &ldquo;Yes.&rdquo; I heard &ldquo;Yes&rdquo; when he said
&ldquo;No.&rdquo; And a few times in life I can remember, my goodness,
that &ldquo;No&rdquo; was really an affirmation and &hellip;
</div> 

Yes. The &ldquo;No&rdquo; is a protection of Truth &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yes.
</div> 

&hellip; when it is a disagreement with error. When you say
&ldquo;No&rdquo; and it means that you are refusing to cooperate with an
erroneous premise or an erroneous action, that &ldquo;No&rdquo; is a
positive statement in favor of Truth.  Yes.

And also the to-ing and fro-ing that you were talking… the intellectual
argument and reasoning process is laborious. You&rsquo;ll find out just
how laborious when you truly make commitment to listening because
Guidance is simple and clear and doesn&rsquo;t go through an
argumentative process.  It&rsquo;s very often just &ldquo;Yes.&rdquo; If
you want to say &ldquo;Why?&rdquo; after the answer is given and if you
want to argue it, you&rsquo;re welcome to do that, but it&rsquo;s not
necessary because the knowing of Truth that provides a smooth,
harmonious experience is all that&rsquo;s needed. The simple
&ldquo;Yes&rdquo; or the simple &ldquo;No&rdquo; that provides the
harmonious experience is all that&rsquo;s needed. You&rsquo;ve all, to
one degree or another, loved the vigorousness of the argument in
arriving at the conclusion when you could be experiencing a whole lot of
peace and time to smell the roses.

Okay.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Thank you.
</div> 

You are welcome. Okay, so in the 2nd edition we&rsquo;re on page 43,
paragraph 6, and in the 1st edition it&rsquo;s page 38, the last
paragraph. Correct?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yes.
</div> 

Okay. If you will &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ability to perceive made the body possible, because you must
perceive something and with something.[^2]
</div>

Hmm. Anybody find that statement disturbing? The ability to perceive
made the body possible.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
It implies there&rsquo;s no body.
</div> 

Someone said, &ldquo;It implies there&rsquo;s no body.&rdquo; Okay.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I suppose the ability to perceive occurred when we chose the separation
instead of the Oneness with our Guide, or with our Creator, and we
needed something to replace it with, and so here came the body. The
experience of perception, is that &hellip; am I perceiving that right?
[laughter]
</div> 

Right here.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Well, I&rsquo;ve been contemplating this paragraph and here&rsquo;s what
I perceive about it. When I am perceiving, I&rsquo;m thinking. And when
I&rsquo;m thinking, I&rsquo;m in some form of judgment. And I&rsquo;ve
got to use something to establish a position and so I take what is the
Life-force identified as me and densify it into an objective state, an
object. I therefore need time and space in which to exist as an object
and I have miscreated. I&rsquo;ve used the body in an unnatural way. I
have held it up as an object, instead of the flowing Presence of Love
which involves no judgment. Something like that.
</div>

Indeed. Indeed. Now, remember that &ldquo;made&rdquo; is the past tense
of &ldquo;make.&rdquo; And remember the difference between
&ldquo;making&rdquo; and &ldquo;creating.&rdquo; And I said that the
word &ldquo;up&rdquo; needs to be added to the word &ldquo;made.&rdquo;
That which is &ldquo;made&rdquo; is &ldquo;made-up.&rdquo; It&rsquo;s
fantasy. But remember also that you cannot have a misperception&mdash;a
made-up perception&mdash;of nothing. You can only have a misperception
of something actual. Creation&mdash;what you call Creation&mdash;is the
visibility and tangibility of God; the visibility that which renders God
experienceable to God. Your body is the visibility and tangibility of
your Individuality, that Place of Excellence in you, and so your body is
Real. But perception made the body as something that exists independent
of its Source. When you separate Creation from Its
Source&mdash;God&mdash;you end up with a perception of Creation that you
currently call the world and universe. You see what I&rsquo;m saying?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Through our senses.
</div> 

Through your senses. Yes. And you think that your senses are also
physical and separate from any divine Aspect or divine Presence or
divine Actuality, instead of their being the Senses of Soul.

So the ability to perceive made a perception of the visibility and
tangibility of your Individuality as an independent material form called
a body possible. Was that too complex? And so the visibility and
tangibility of your Individuality which is inviolable and eternal became
to you, by virtue of the use of perception, something unlike what it
truly is: a thing that is born and dies, a temporary residence, a
temporary residence for your soul, an impediment to your soul that
limits you for a brief period of time and that you must just suffer
through to the best of your ability. You see?

It made the misperception of the visibility and tangibility of God
possible as a distorted experience of it that you call a material body
that is the result of physical evolution, separate and apart from God.
This really means the ability to perceive made a misperception possible.
It does not mean that it made an illusion of body possible that has no
existence whatsoever. Is anyone confused about what I&rsquo;m saying?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So let&rsquo;s say you&rsquo;re a little soul in a sense walking along
with God, Creator, and you want to experience forgiveness. When
you&rsquo;re in the state of Beingness with the collective, so to speak,
you know all there is about forgiveness, but you are not actually able
to sense it with feeling. And so, if you incarnate, you are actually
able to, in a sense, come down to our perception of creation, maybe
experience forgiveness with a partner and in doing so you have a better
perception of what forgiveness is.
</div> 

No. No. There&rsquo;s no place to come down to. And there&rsquo;s no way
for you to be a little soul. Soul has a capital &ldquo;S&rdquo; and
it&rsquo;s Infinite and all of what Soul/God is constitutes your Soul.

Now, right now in the middle of an apparent human condition called the
world and universe, you are already home. It is Reality, the Kingdom of
Heaven that you&rsquo;re in the middle of and experiencing through a
glass darkly, through a distorted pair of glasses. So there&rsquo;s no
place for you to come down to or incarnate into. You&rsquo;re forever
identified. God is forever identified and His Identification is called
Creation, the visibility and tangibility that you&rsquo;re experiencing
everywhere right now.

You&rsquo;re not a soul refining itself. You are Soul in the process of
re-embracing what you already are as you&rsquo;re willing to let go of
the idea, the belief, the mutually-agreed-upon definition that you are
separate and tiny and can incarnate and be out of incarnation and jump
back and forth. You see?

The ultimate is what is happening right now. You&rsquo;re already at
your destination because you only left your destination, like Johnny in
the schoolroom, by giving his attention someplace else and ignoring
where he really is, while he&rsquo;s still there where he really is. Do
you see what I&rsquo;m saying? Waking up is a matter of bringing your
attention back to where you really are, instead of dwelling in the land
of imagination.

Now, you&rsquo;re not imagining that you have a body. I&rsquo;ve said
before that God unidentified, un-manifest God is non-existent God. You
without manifestation would be non-existent. So that which identifies
you is Real. That you call it a material body, that you call it an
organism that&rsquo;s a result of a physical process is your
misunderstanding of it, your misinterpretation of it. And your
definition of it as being born and inevitably dying causes you, the Son
of God, to behave as though you are a mortal who is going to live and
die, and you slowly die yourself.  You slowly behave as a dying one and
you act it out. And you seem to have the evidence of it because you are
the Son of God and you can create an illusion for yourself that seems
quite real. But you know what happens? Once you or anyone else manages
to go through the last act and take your last breath and you seem to
disappear to everyone else, you find that you&rsquo;re still present.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So it&rsquo;s just the body you shake?
</div> 

And you find that you&rsquo;re still fully identified with form. And
whatever you seem to die from, you will not have anymore. Whatever the
disease, the injury, or whatever, will not be there and you&rsquo;ll
realize, &ldquo;Oh, my body wasn&rsquo;t physical at all. When I thought
it was physical, it wasn&rsquo;t physical. I was behaving it as though
it were. I was behaving it as though it were.&rdquo;

That&rsquo;s why healing can be instantaneous right now, because
there&rsquo;s no physical process it has to go through in order to
arrive at healing, because it&rsquo;s not physical at all right now.
It&rsquo;s the visibility and tangibility of a Divine Idea in the Mind
of God. And all of God&rsquo;s Ideas are experienceable to God as Real,
visible, tangible. Real, but not physical, not material. Not
self-created dust out of dust, atoms out of atoms, et cetera.

It&rsquo;s not an orderliness of an arrangement of physical form.
It&rsquo;s a Divine Idea held together intact forever by the Mind that
formed that Idea. And the Idea is as Eternal as Its Source.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Thank you for that clarity.
</div> 

You are welcome.

Now, the ability to perceive makes it possible for you to identify, or
call, this tangibility of God a material body. You see? Perception makes
that misperception possible.

And then you live on the basis of that misperception. Or should I say,
you suffer and die under that misperception. And you call that normal
and you say &ldquo;okay&rdquo; to it and you don&rsquo;t challenge it.
Except, underneath, you know it&rsquo;s not true. And so you have people
who study real hard and they become physicians and they do everything
they can to overcome death. Why? Because they know it&rsquo;s an
illegitimate imposition. They know it&rsquo;s not the Truth, but they
don&rsquo;t turn to the Father to learn what the Truth is. They stay in
their separated state of ignorance and to the best of their ability
within the scope of ignorance, mind you, they attempt to overcome death.
And you run to them when you feel that you&rsquo;re going to die to
live. Why? Because you also haven&rsquo;t stopped being the direct
Expression of God and you know that Life is eternal and that it needs to
be challenged. And so you challenge it too by resisting it.

And the true resistance is, the true resistance that constitutes
correction is when you abandon the ability to perceive by choosing no
longer to see by yourself and you turn to God and you say, &ldquo;What
is the Truth here? I want to know the Real Truth, the Divinity of the
thing, the Divinity of me, what You made me to be, what You are being me
as at this moment.&rdquo; And then you open up to receive and when you
receive, you say &ldquo;Yes.&rdquo; You don&rsquo;t argue.

The ability to perceive made the misperception of that which identifies
you possible. Because you must perceive something and with something.
It&rsquo;s not possible to be conscious without having some thing to be
conscious of. God moved. God is the Movement of Mind. God moved and God
saw the Movement and God recognized Himself in the Movement. In the
beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the final
essential point, Self-recognition, and the Word was God. So, in order to
be conscious, you must be conscious of something, and you must recognize
it for what it is.

Now, the great secret is that Mind Moving is an infinite Movement and it
is an infinite Movement of Ideas. And that infinite Movement of Ideas is
experienceable to the Mind that is Moving. And because Mind must be
aware of something in order to be Mind, it has to have that something to
be aware of, and then when it recognizes Itself as the Movement, there
is what you would call Integrity, Wholeness, cohesiveness, Sanity, you
might say.

Now, that experience that you attribute to God is what constitutes your
very Presence because you are the Presence of God. God is Presence-ing
Himself right where you are, right where each one of you is. And all
that God is, is Presence-ed where you are.

And I do not want you to hold on to this image factually, but if you
have a hologram and you take one little piece of the hologram,
you&rsquo;ll find that the whole picture is in that little piece. So
wherever there seem to be individualities that you might think were
small, all of what God is being right there is right there in you. The
reason I don&rsquo;t want you to hold on to that image is because you
are limitless. You are the Presence of God in His Wholeness. It is the
Father&rsquo;s good pleasure to give you the Kingdom, to withhold
nothing of What He Is from you. So God&rsquo;s Experience is your
Birthright, which you are in the process of re-awakening to, reawakening
to.

Now, when any of you chose to look at things all by yourself, as I said
last week, you separated yourself from your Source and it caused the
only thing available to you to experience, which was the Kingdom of
Heaven, to seem to be separated from Its Source. And you&rsquo;re left
with a perception of the Kingdom of Heaven that&rsquo;s called a
material world and universe.

And yet, you&rsquo;ve got to be conscious because in this process you
can&rsquo;t stop being the Divine One that You Are, the very Presence of
God.

And so you say, &ldquo;Oh, I have a brain. I have this hunk of meat in
my head and that&rsquo;s how I&rsquo;m conscious. And I have eyeballs
with which to see things that have nothing to do with my mind. And I
have a world to experience that has nothing to do with God and has
nothing to do with me. But I will spend my life learning how to be in
the middle of all of this that is unlike me and has nothing to do with
me and find some level of safety and happiness.&rdquo; And so
you&rsquo;re in a state of ignorance. You are in a constant denial of
what is actually happening. And a redefinition of the Kingdom of Heaven
and the way things work has occurred. And it&rsquo;s an uncomfortable
experience.

And so, the inevitable result is for you to say, &ldquo;I am this form.
I am a series of synapses and a hunk of meat in my skull. And I am in a
material world.&rdquo; And yet all you&rsquo;ve managed to do is take
all the fundamental elements of Reality and just translate them into
interconnected separate things, instead of an inseparable Wholeness
that&rsquo;s fully conscious of Its Wholeness and where no part of the
Kingdom of Heaven is separate from you and separate from your conscious
awareness. Where everything that is going on infinitely is available to
you and experienced by you eternally with nothing escaping your
attention. Does that answer your question?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yes. Thank you very much.
</div> 

You are welcome.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I just have a comment.
</div> 

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
When you were talking about the body, I believe that you gave us proof,
or a good example, when you arose and you transfigured that we are to
keep our body. And what I saw in the transfiguration is that the body is
so symmetrical and so balanced, that it&rsquo;s Light.
</div> 

Indeed. You couldn&rsquo;t lose your body if you tried. So you
don&rsquo;t keep it.  You only keep what you can lose. [laughing] But
for you to be unidentified is impossible. For you to be unidentifiable,
for you to be unrecognizable to the Brotherhood is impossible. And even
as a Body of Light, you will be uniquely recognizable.

And, remember Paul does not see it but I see the Body of Light that you
are. All of you are already the Ultimate. Get this through your head.
Let it sink in. All of you are already the Ultimate that you&rsquo;re
working so hard to get back to. So you can stop working so hard at
getting back to it and become less defended so that the experience of it
can penetrate your very private world that you&rsquo;re trying so hard
to maintain, because that&rsquo;s how you think you have integrity and
that&rsquo;s how you can have respect and that&rsquo;s how you can be
safe.

Yes. Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Many years ago I had like a vision of the Body of Light. And I
won&rsquo;t go into it, but I just remember, and I&rsquo;ve heard
someone speak of the adamantine particles. These Light particles say
something constantly. As I remember in my vision, they speak of the
individuality. They say who that individuality is constantly. Every
particle that makes up an individuality speaks of that individuality. So
I just thought just this moment, well, if we were relinquishing our
speaking through our perceptions, we would allow, literally, these
particles of Light which are Living Love to speak for us and as us,
which they already are doing constantly. Just a vision.
</div> 

Yes. You could say that they glorify you as you glorify God.

Ann, you had a question? Okay.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
As you were saying, or answering his question a minute ago, I had
this&hellip; I really got what you were saying on a very deep level. And
it was almost overwhelming, because I had this realization that there is
no such thing as alone. I really got that. There is no such thing as
alone.  And you were talking about Mind recognizing Itself.
</div> 

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And that&rsquo;s Integrity. And we do that. We do that when we listen
for the Father. We do that when we look at each other. We do that
&hellip; it&rsquo;s like everywhere we look there is nothing but God
expressing Itself. And I think where the distortion came from is that we
looked at what is identified as God and we thought that looks like a
separate something.  That looks like a little piece split off. And then
how is that little piece going to survive? And how&rsquo;s that little
piece going to, you know, make it on its own? [laugh] And all there
is&hellip;
</div> 

Well, you see, the reason these things are seen as separate is because
first you said, &ldquo;But, Father, I&rsquo;d rather see it
myself.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Right.
</div> 

&ldquo;I&rsquo;d rather see it my way!&rdquo; And in that act of
separation and denial of your Source, it caused all of Creation to seem
to become separated from Its Source. And that&rsquo;s when, instead of
an Infinite Unity, it became broken into an infinite separation of
things, distinct and separate and apart from each other, that all must
somehow manage to do the immensely, unnatural thing of cooperating with
each other on the basis of agreements. And the natural harmony of the
infinite Oneness of God&rsquo;s Self-Expression was lost. And any
harmony that might be achieved through mutual agreements of separated
parts would end up having to be something that was enforced, rather than
utterly and absolutely and eternally natural.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Because they had to keep remembering the illusion.
</div> 

That is correct.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
To keep making it real. To keep recreating it.
</div> 

To reinforce the illusion. Yes.

Okay. Let us continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
That is why perception involves an exchange or translation, which
knowledge does not need. The interpretative function of perception, a
distorted form of creation, then permits you to interpret the body as
yourself in an attempt to escape from the conflict you have induced.
</div>

Yes. Now, this is also important. The interpretative function of
perception is a distorted form of Creation, not a new Creation.
It&rsquo;s always an altered experience of Creation Itself. When you
have made something, rather than created, you have not made something
new. It is always a distorted form of Creation that the interpretative
function creates.

Okay, Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Spirit, which knows, could not be reconciled with this loss of power,
because it is incapable of darkness. This makes spirit almost
inaccessible to the mind and entirely inaccessible to the body.
Thereafter, spirit is perceived as a threat, because light abolishes
darkness merely by showing you it is not there.
</div> 

Indeed &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Truth will always overcome error in this way.
</div> 

How? By showing you it is not there. Not by having a war with it and
causing it to knuckle under and yield. The battle is with something
non-existent. And that&rsquo;s why you ask to know the Truth, because
the Truth will disclose to you with utter clarity that what you were
suffering from isn&rsquo;t real.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This cannot be an active process of correction because, as I have
already emphasized, knowledge does not do anything.
</div> 

Indeed. And you could read that to say, &ldquo;Oh, correction
isn&rsquo;t an active process, so maybe I don&rsquo;t have to say
anything about a problem I see.&rdquo; No. Knowledge does not do
anything except reveal what is true. And then, because you Love your
Brother, you don&rsquo;t withhold the clarity that you&rsquo;re
experiencing. You tell the wife, &ldquo;the cat&rsquo;s right behind
you, don&rsquo;t step back,&rdquo; because you care about your Brother.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It can be perceived as an attacker, but it cannot attack.
</div> 

You understand that! If Truth be told about something you want
kept secret, then you will see Truth as an attacker, as something
violating you because the thing you want to keep secret is something
that you think keeps you safe.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What you perceive as its attack is your own vague recognition that
knowledge can always be remembered, never having been destroyed.
</div> 

Yes. You might have been able to partition off one small part of the
Infinite Mind that you Are and claim that that is all there is of you,
but you can&rsquo;t get rid of the Infiniteness that you Are. And you
know what? The reuniting of It in Its entirety is inevitable because the
only thing that you are shielding yourself with from the rest of the
infinitude of you is an imagination. And imaginations aren&rsquo;t real.
And they cannot reinforce themselves. And either sooner or later you
will get tired of the effort of reinforcing them, or you will get tired
of the stress of living in that unnatural state. Or the Infiniteness of
You outside the boundary you&rsquo;ve created will manage to penetrate
enough times for you to have experienced sufficient enough illumination
for you to realize that there&rsquo;s a different experience available
to you that you really prefer to have, and you turn toward It and say,
&ldquo;I allow you, I invite you, to register with me.&rdquo;
That&rsquo;s turning to the Altar.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Can you make &hellip; I oftentimes go through my day and I forget to
stay in touch. So I just kind of &hellip; I have a standing invitation
always to kind of come and say, &ldquo;Yoo hoo!&rdquo; 
Is that&hellip; does that work?
</div> 

It does.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
It feels like it works &hellip;
</div> 

It does indeed.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
&hellip; &lsquo;cause I get lots of little &ldquo;Yoo hoos.&rdquo;
</div> 

Yes. Yes. It is a good practice. Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Well, like on my current job, I feel like that is &hellip; it feels
&hellip; it&rsquo;s a completely different job than I&rsquo;ve ever had.
It&rsquo;s almost like a playground for this, to learn this. The whole 
thing is it&rsquo;s not that I&rsquo;m going and making a living and 
it&rsquo;s where I&rsquo;m learning something completely different in an
experiential way.
</div> 

Where you are allowing glimpses of the Kingdom of Heaven to occur right
there in your workspace.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And I feel constant &hellip;
</div> 

Good. Does everyone hear that?

Everyone thinks of Heaven as in the sweet bye-and-bye after you die. And
no one is looking for it right now because &ldquo;as in Heaven so on
earth&rdquo; makes it sound like they are two places. The delightful
part of everything we&rsquo;re talking about is the fact that right here
where you say &ldquo;on earth&rdquo; there is nothing present but the
Kingdom of Heaven. Here and now is where you should be curious to
experience glimpses that can grow into more persistent visions, or
experiences, of Reality that ultimately will break down the resistance
you have been maintaining to the experience of your Wholeness.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And effortlessly.
</div> 

Yes. Exactly. And that is a good point to end for today. Okay.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Thank you, Raj.
</div> 

You are welcome. You are welcome.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
We are so blessed!
</div>

And I look forward to being with you next week. Okay.

[^1]: Students commenting or asking a question.
[^2]: T3.IV Error and the Ego

