---
title: Jun 1, 2003
ref: T3.IV Error and the Ego
---

Good afternoon. And welcome. And welcome to everyone who is also joining
us on the internet.

We will go right into the book. And if you will, what we do is each
person reads a paragraph. Nobody has succeeded in reading a paragraph
without my interrupting. But once you have finished the paragraph, then
pass the microphone on to the next person.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God and His creations remain in surety, and therefore know that no
miscreation exists. Truth cannot deal with errors that you want. I was a
man who remembered spirit and its knowledge. As a man I did not attempt
to counteract error with knowledge, but to correct error from the bottom
up.[^1]
</div> 

Okay. Ahh. It&rsquo;s like in the beginning, or everything in its
original, unaltered state, even at this moment, remains in surety. God
and His Creations even at this moment remain in surety and therefore
know that no miscreation exists as a fact, even though you all seem to
be suffering from miscreation.

Truth cannot deal with errors that you want. That&rsquo;s why your Good
can&rsquo;t be inflicted upon you by those of us who are awake. What you
want, you will seem to have. And you will seem to have it until you no
longer want it. But as long as you want to pay attention to and value
your own perceptions of the Kingdom of Heaven and as long as you want to
call those perceptions a world and universe that started from a big bang
and are purely physical, that is all you will see. It&rsquo;s very
simple.

I was a man who remembered Spirit and Its Knowledge. And I&rsquo;m going
to play on the word &ldquo;remembered&rdquo; there. I was a man who
re-membered Spirit, who re-joined Spirit, you might say, and Its
Knowledge.

Well, we&rsquo;ve been talking for some months now about re-membering,
re-joining. In other words, abandoning the fascination you have with
your concepts about what the Kingdom of Heaven is. The willingness to
abandon mutually-agreed-upon definitions that you have with each other
about what everything is and turning toward the Altar, giving your
attention to that Place of Excellence in you. And without bringing to
that Place your best ideas, your best judgments, your best concepts, you
allow yourself to be innocent, empty of preconceptions, with a desire to
know of God of that Place of Excellence in you, what Truth is.
That&rsquo;s how you rejoin. And we&rsquo;ve also talked about a very
important next part to that which is being willing only to be present
with your Brother, your Sister, your world from that Place of
Excellence, free of your preconceptions, treasured ideas, beliefs, and
so on.

As a man, I did not attempt to counteract error with knowledge. In other
words, you are not to go into that quiet place within you, you are not
to turn to the Altar so that you may gather information of God and then
turn your back on the Altar again and go out and deal with the world
with this wonderful new ammunition that you got from God that&rsquo;s
going to help you independently cope with a separated sense of life more
efficiently, more successfully.

Do not attempt to counteract error with knowledge. As a man, I did not
attempt to counteract error with knowledge, but to correct error from
the bottom up. How many of you have read that sentence and thought, 
&ldquo;Wonder what
that means, &lsquo;from the bottom up&rsquo;?&rdquo; To do it from the
bottom up means to abandon the initial mistake, to undo the initial
mis-step. And the initial mis-step was to turn your back on God and say,
&ldquo;I&rsquo;d rather do it myself. I&rsquo;d rather decide what this
means. I&rsquo;d like to give this event an entirely different meaning
from the one You&rsquo;re giving it, God.&rdquo; In other words, the
initial mis-step was that you decided to think for yourself, perceive
for yourself.

And the way you undo error from the bottom up is to stop thinking for
yourself. To stop valuing your independence. To stop insulating yourself
from and against God.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
May I ask a &hellip;? [^2]
</div> 

Not yet.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I demonstrated both the powerlessness of the body and the power of the
mind.
</div> 

Okay. I demonstrated both the powerlessness of the body. I want you to
understand that that statement doesn&rsquo;t mean I demonstrated the
non-existence of the body. I demonstrated the powerlessness of the body
and the power of the Mind. The body, that which all of you can see when
you look at each other, that which all of you can see when you look at
the orchid or the leaf or the table, is the visibility and tangibility
of an idea&mdash;an Idea held in the Mind of God. Its substance is
Spirit&mdash;Pure, Divine Energy. Now, you turn your back on God and
say, &ldquo;I&rsquo;d rather see it myself&rdquo; and this independent
stance and the uneasy undercurrent, or the uncomfortable undercurrent,
that accompanies the choice to see things in a way that is not natural
to you, causes everything to be seen opposite to what it is. And so,
instead of Spirit you see substance as matter, purely physical, a
presence of something that has nothing to do with God. And so you see
your body as material.  You see it as an organism, instead of an
incredible symphony of &hellip; that is actually musical, of the Energy
that is Light.

And not only that. You endow it with personality, character. &ldquo;My
body is acting up today. My body is making a fuss today. My body is not my
friend today. It&rsquo;s my enemy.&rdquo; You characterize it. And in
the characterization, you attribute to it power that it does not have.

Now, when you re-member, re-member Spirit, when you re-join Spirit, you
discover and demonstrate the powerlessness of the body because you come
back into your Right Mind into a True Perspective because the body never
did have power. So in re-membering Spirit I demonstrated both the
powerlessness of the body and the power of the Mind&mdash;the divinely
mental nature of all existence. Because the simple fact is that
you&rsquo;re not observing everything from your body. You&rsquo;re
observing everything from your Mind. And your body is just one of the
infinitude of things that you experience in your Mind. Your Mind is the
ground of your existence.  It is the infinite Place from which infinity
is experienced.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
By uniting my will with that of my Creator, I naturally remembered
spirit and its real purpose.
</div> 

Indeed. Turning to the Altar, abandoning your will in favor of the
Father&rsquo;s Will constitutes a uniting, a re-uniting of that which
never ever actually became separate. And you naturally will remember,
when you do that, Spirit&mdash;not matter&mdash;and Its real purpose.
And the real purpose of Spirit is to give recognizability to the
Movement of Mind that is God Being All.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I cannot unite your will with God&rsquo;s for you, but I can erase all
misperceptions from your mind if you will bring it under my guidance.
</div> 

An insulting idea. Bring your mind under my Guidance.
Subject yourself to something other than your own authority, your own
so-called authority, your own imagined authority. But, even though
it&rsquo;s only imagined, it is something you value so highly that
it&rsquo;s insulting to you, to your ego sense of yourself to have to
abandon it as the central point from which you exist.

It&rsquo;s hard enough to co-operate with your brother or your sister or
your husband or your wife, but to have to do it in an ultimate sort of
way with someone who knows the Truth more clearly than you, and
therefore can appear to you to be superior to you, is not an easy thing
to willingly embrace. And yet, since last June, that&rsquo;s all
we&rsquo;ve been talking about.

And you know what? It constitutes a new way of being. It constitutes
your making a fundamental shift. When you&rsquo;re having good days,
fundamental shifts don&rsquo;t seem so important. When you&rsquo;re
having really awful days, and you&rsquo;re experiencing misery, a
fundamental shift looks pretty good&mdash;at least, reasonable.

But what I keep bringing out, and what the Course has been bringing out,
is that when you are not joined with the Father and you are looking at
everything from an independent vantage point, you are suffering. You are
suffering the loss of the Peace that comes from the experience of being
One with everything universally. You experience the loss of infinite
communion with the Brotherhood, with all the Sons and Daughters of God.
Waking up will constitute the loss of loneliness.

&ldquo;Oh, well, I can stand loneliness. You know, I mean, I have a few
friends. Whatever degree of loneliness I&rsquo;m experiencing
isn&rsquo;t bothering me too much.&rdquo; [laughing] Well, then
experience it. Truth cannot deal with errors that you want.

I&rsquo;m telling you that there&rsquo;s an alternative and I&rsquo;m
telling you that it&rsquo;s an alternative worth reaching for.
It&rsquo;s an alternative worth claiming because it&rsquo;s your
Birthright. I cannot unite your will with God&rsquo;s for you, but I can
erase all misperceptions from your mind if you will bring it under my
Guidance. Aren&rsquo;t you glad I &hellip; it didn&rsquo;t say under the
Guidance of all the awakened Brotherhood? [a little audience laugh] At
least you only have to deal with me. And I won&rsquo;t penalize you if
you argue with me. And if you delay, if you procrastinate, I will not
chastise you, punish you. But as long as you continue to return to me
and continue to inquire as to what the Truth is, and continue to want to
have any misperceptions you&rsquo;re suffering from erased, our
Brotherhood and camaraderie will accomplish that.

The simple answer to the problem is break the isolation. Abandon the
independence. That is your whole problem. That is what creates what you
call the human condition. And, so, do it with me, or do it with your
Guide, because we&rsquo;re all awake. And we&rsquo;re all performing the
same Function.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Only your misperceptions stand in your way.
</div> 

That&rsquo;s all! That&rsquo;s the only thing that stands in your way
are your misperceptions. It&rsquo;s not that you&rsquo;re a bad person.
It isn&rsquo;t that you&rsquo;ve been so bad that you can&rsquo;t
possibly be admitted back into the Kingdom of Heaven until you&rsquo;ve
been punished and suffered enough. The only thing that stands in your
way are your misperceptions. Now you can&rsquo;t tell me that just
because you&rsquo;re not little kids and that you&rsquo;re adults, that
you have no curiosity to have a better perception of something, that you
have no interest whatsoever in exploring and being open to surprises
that benefit you. Benefit you. That curiosity is still there with you.
Don&rsquo;t defend yourself against the surprise of discovering Truth
more clearly just because you&rsquo;d rather be in charge yourself.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Without them your choice is certain. Sane perception induces sane
choosing.
</div> 

Again, that sentence &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Sane perception induces sane choosing.
</div> 

It&rsquo;s inevitable. It&rsquo;s natural. Sane perception, even though
it&rsquo;s not Knowing, even though it&rsquo;s not Knowledge, induces
sane choosing.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I cannot choose for you, but I can help you make your own right choice.
&ldquo;Many are called but few are chosen&rdquo; should be, &ldquo;All
are called but few choose to listen.&rdquo;
</div> 

Yeah. Let&rsquo;s stop right there. All are called but few choose to
listen.  Listen is such an important word because listening breaks
isolation, doesn&rsquo;t it? If you are listening, you&rsquo;re
listening for something other than the idle chatter of your mind and
your own ego. It&rsquo;s an invitation to hear something other than
yourself. Such a simple thing. None of this at the bottom line is
difficult. You already know how to listen. You just aren&rsquo;t
choosing to. That&rsquo;s all.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Therefore, they do not choose right. The &ldquo;chosen ones&rdquo; are
merely those who choose right sooner. Right minds can do this now, and
they will find rest unto their souls. God knows you only in peace, and
this is your reality.
</div> 

And this is your Reality already. This is your Reality. Okay.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
May I?
</div> 

Yes, you may.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Miscreations, is that equal to misperception or mutually-agreed-upon
concepts when it says, &ldquo;miscreations&rdquo;?
</div> 

Miscreation is like a nightmare. It&rsquo;s a fantasy.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Right. But I&rsquo;m going to use this term for clarification,
&ldquo;There&rsquo;s no basis in matter.&rdquo; In other words, I
don&rsquo;t look around and see a miscreation in the physical form, do
I? It&rsquo;s just all in my head. Is that &hellip; you see what
I&rsquo;m getting at?
</div> 

When it comes to disease, you are seeing miscreation in physical form.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I see.
</div> 

You are having a delusion. And others who see the same thing are those joined
in a mutual delusion of mutually-agreed-upon false definition.

And the moment that one realizes that the substance of all form is
Spirit and is therefore not physical and not governed by what have
become called the laws of matter, physics, instantaneous healing can
occur because what you are seeing is not apparently held to a false
structure of rules in your mind. And so what you had called physical
form, when you have abandoned it to what it truly is, can shift form
instantaneously, effortlessly, and comfortably, painlessly.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yes. If I said, &ldquo;a weapon of mass destruction could be a
miscreation,&rdquo; is that going too far a field from the point that
you&rsquo;re trying to make?  Do you see what I&rsquo;m getting at? Or
would you say there is such a thing as a miscreation that winds up being
a weapon of mass destruction or a &hellip; you know.
</div> 

A weapon of mass destruction is nothing more than a form that everyone
has mutually-agreed-upon to define as that which can bring great
devastating harm to a great number of people or a great area of land.
That&rsquo;s still nothing more than an imagination, an idea that is
being held by everyone, and by holding it, everyone is confirming it and
holding it in place. And I will tell you this. Only those who are agreed
to that definition will suffer from, shall I say, the detonation or the
implementation of a weapon of mass destruction. You can have SARS, you
can have whooping cough, you can have measles running through the
community but those who have not bought into the definition and
understand that they are&hellip;

(PAUL: Just a moment.)

&hellip; that they&rsquo;re not subject to such a belief structure
because they&rsquo;re subject to the Laws of God and who have even a
rudimentary concept of their body as being the substance which is Spirit
rather than matter, they won&rsquo;t get SARS or whooping cough or
measles. Even those who might seem to experience the first stages of any
of those dis-eases, who &ldquo;catch it&rdquo; and recognize that
they&rsquo;re buying into it and refuse to, will find those first few
symptoms immediately or rapidly disappearing. You only suffer from the
rules that you have agreed upon and that you&rsquo;re committed to
because there&rsquo;s no matter at all. My point is that no matter how
strong the belief is, matter has never been created and will never be
created. It will always be Spirit biased by a misconception that
you&rsquo;re committed to. And you who are committed to it will be the
only one experiencing it that way or the group of you who have mutually
agreed to that definition and the rules and structures of that
definition. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yes. Another point of confusion for me is that last sentence where it
says, &ldquo;God sees you only in peace.&rdquo; The confusion is surely
God can see our delusions, but is it that He doesn&rsquo;t choose to see
us, or He doesn&rsquo;t recognize that as being our true nature? How is
that?
</div> 

It&rsquo;s the fact that Truth cannot deal with errors that you want.
God cannot force you to see the Truth when you want to see something
else.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
But He sees us kicking and screaming?
</div> 

God is not unaware that you are distressed, but He also knows that your
distress is unreal and that your Being is not threatened in any way by
your thrilling and frightening imaginations.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Like a parent seeing its child be upset about the bogeyman.
</div> 

Indeed. And like a father of a human child, God loves you with a
nurturing Love that is sufficient to convey to you the true state of
Peace that is yours. But if, like the child, you are so fascinated by
the excitement of the terror that you&rsquo;re unwilling to let go of
it, no matter how much comforting is provided, it won&rsquo;t be felt
until you, like the child, withdraw your investment of energy in your
reaction and your preoccupation with your imagination.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Thank you.
</div> 

You are welcome. Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I was trying to think this through. You, as you move around, you know
things. I&rsquo;m trying to give up my definitions. Thursday on three
different occasions I almost stepped in front of a car&mdash;I
don&rsquo;t mean the same car&mdash;three times. So I was thinking, so
what&rsquo;s up for me, even though I know that I and the car can be in
the exact same spot at the same time and both of us go our ways, because
we&rsquo;re both Spirit &hellip;
</div> 

Don&rsquo;t test that yet. [audience laughter]

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
That&rsquo;s probably a good idea. [laughing] But what&rsquo;s up now is
trust, isn&rsquo;t it?
</div> 

Until you can sit at a counter or at a table and gently pass your hand
through the table, don&rsquo;t step in front of a car.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay.
</div> 

Don&rsquo;t test a natural capacity that you have under stress of that
sort.  Discover the capacity in the simpleness of a test, you might say,
that you engage in, in your dining room at your dining room table.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay. So bottom line I guess what&rsquo;s up for me is am I really
totally willing, which is what I want to be is to give up my definitions
that the car can hurt me, or that this or that. That&rsquo;s
what&rsquo;s up, right?
</div> 

No. How about what&rsquo;s up being just being more conscious.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I can&rsquo;t daydream so much?
</div> 

Being more present where you are.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay.
</div> 

Be present with the intersection. Be present with where the cars are in
the parking lot so you&rsquo;re not surprised from lack of attention
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay.
</div> 

&hellip; that there&rsquo;s a car bearing down upon you. You don&rsquo;t
have to go for the Ultimate. Just be more conscious in every moment of
your day.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Thank you.
</div> 

You&rsquo;re welcome. I would like to continue for right now.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*Beyond Perception*

I have said that the abilities you possess are only shadows of your real
strength, and that perception, which is inherently judgmental, was
introduced only after the separation. No one has been sure of anything
since.
</div> 

Yes. Now perception is what happens when you give an evaluation to an
event in the Kingdom of Heaven, when you describe it in your own words
and those words do not reflect what the Movement of God is there.

You&rsquo;re at work. A fellow employee walks by calmly. His whole
stance conveys that he&rsquo;s not ill at ease, while everyone else is
disturbed about some event that has occurred within the office politics,
we&rsquo;ll say. So, here we have a Christ who has walked past. And you
say, &ldquo;I never have liked that guy. [an audience laugh] Look at
him! Swaggering!  Swaggering his peace. Showing how uninvolved he is. I
really don&rsquo;t like that guy.&rdquo;

You see? That&rsquo;s a perception of a Christ, an unmoved Christ
who&rsquo;s in his peace. And I&rsquo;m going to say, for this example,
that he knows better than to get upset. And so he&rsquo;s staying in his
peace so that he can more effectively deal with what everyone else is
reacting to.

Someone else seems always to do the right thing and is always kind, a
good person, and those around him think he&rsquo;s flaunting his
goodness and they can&rsquo;t stand him. You see my point? A perception
is a description you apply to something in the middle of the Kingdom of
Heaven that doesn&rsquo;t illuminate the Truth that it&rsquo;s something
or someone in the middle of the Kingdom of Heaven.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So it illuminates your misperception, really.
</div> 

What does?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
It shows you your misperception. Well, it doesn&rsquo;t show it to you,
but it demonstrates your misperception.
</div> 

It demonstrates that you are perceiving, rather than Knowing. That you
are seeing what you choose to believe, rather than having the direct
Experience of What Is Really Divinely Going On.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay.
</div> 

And so in the sense, perception means misperception.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I have also made it clear that the resurrection was the means for the
return to knowledge, which was accomplished by the union of my will with
the Father&rsquo;s.
</div> 

And here, Knowledge, as I&rsquo;ve used the word, means the same thing
as Knowing, with a capital &ldquo;K.&rdquo; Because when you have
abandoned self-will to unite with the Will of the Father by desiring to
know of the Father what Truth is, then you have available to you the
Experience of Knowing the Truth, not having a perception of the Truth,
but Knowing it from the tips of your toes, from the ends of the
Universe.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
We can now establish a distinction that will clarify some of our
subsequent statements.

Since the separation, the words &ldquo;create&rdquo; and
&ldquo;make&rdquo; have become confused. When you make something, you do
so out of a specific sense of lack or need. Anything made for a specific
purpose has no true generalizability. When you make something to fill a
perceived lack, you are tacitly implying that you believe in separation.
</div> 

Because, of course, when you&rsquo;re joined with the Father, it&rsquo;s
impossible to experience anything such as lack.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego has invented many ingenious thought systems for this purpose.
None of them is creative. Inventiveness is wasted effort even in its
most ingenious form. The highly specific nature of invention is not
worthy of the abstract creativity of God's creations.
</div> 

Now, just as a little tidbit of information. When you turned away from
the Father, when you turned away from the Altar and you became
preoccupied with the form, the Infinite Form of Creation but minus the
Father&rsquo;s Perspective, and form seemed to be transformed from
Spirit into matter and Eternity seemed to be transformed into time and
space, you found yourself apparently on the Earth with a moon orbiting
around it and other planets orbiting around your sun. And all of this
from God&rsquo;s Perspective, from a True Perspective, is simply part of
the Infinitude of You. But, having turned away from the Altar and Spirit
having been transformed into matter and Eternity into time and space,
your Infinitude seemed to be separate from you&mdash;all physical
objects.

And so, ingenious inventiveness had to be developed to find a way to get
to the moon. And, additionally, in order to move yourself through space,
you had to employ something called force, rocket engines, but
nevertheless force, enough force to able to overcome the gravity that
holds you on the Earth. When, truly speaking, if you hadn&rsquo;t turned
from the Altar and Spirit had not been turned into matter apparently and
Eternity had not been changed into time and space, all you would have to
do would be to shift your attention from Earth to moon and you would be
there because it&rsquo;s all in You. Earth, moon, planets, stars,
galaxies are all resident in the Mind that you are, because Mind is the
ground of your Being. The body is not the ground of your Being. You are
observing everything with your Mind, even now while you think you are
viewing it from your body.

Do you see what I&rsquo;m getting at? The minute Spirit was translated
into matter, you all became subject to what you subsequently decided
were the laws of matter which you call physics and call a science. But
at this moment none of you are bound by those laws, because those laws
are imaginary. And force is not needed to get from here to there,
whether it&rsquo;s from home to work or from Earth to the moon. I bring
this out so that you will not give as much credibility to the laws of
physics, and so that you might come to understand the Power of Mind
which involves no force whatsoever. It takes no energy to shift your
attention from one idea to another, does it? Likewise, it takes no
energy or force to be present, intimately present with the surface of
the moon, and then instantaneously present with the surface of the
Earth. Because the only thing that has to shift is attention&mdash;not 
matter. Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Right now, in theatres, there&rsquo;s been a real concentration of
movies around things like, you know, like &ldquo;Spiderman,&rdquo;
supernatural powers.  &ldquo;The Hulk&rdquo; is coming out.
&ldquo;Matrix&rdquo; which shows Neo as not being bound by physical laws
any more. Is this in the human psyche? Is there a deep knowing of what
our real nature is that gives rise to this kind of thinking?
</div> 

Well, of course there is, but it&rsquo;s not deep in the human psyche,
because human is only a definition that has been given to the Divine One
that is a Christ. So, deep within you&mdash;the only one there is of
you&mdash;you know the Truth.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And so that&rsquo;s the fascination.
</div> 

And the disowned part of you is called the Holy Spirit, which is always
taking every opportunity It can to turn your current limited perception
into a better perception and thus turning every situation to your
advantage. And so, yes. You&rsquo;re going to find more of these movies
and more events occurring that will trigger the remembering, because the
remembering is bringing forth the triggers.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So, it becomes a spiral in momentum. As the memories bring about the
triggers, the triggers bring about more memory, et cetera.
</div> 

Indeed. It&rsquo;s Self-affirming. It&rsquo;s Self-affirming, with a
capital &ldquo;S.&rdquo; Yes. None of it is magic at all. And none of it
is supernatural. It&rsquo;s just the Truth registering a little bit more
openly. In a way you could say that you&rsquo;re in a time when closet
Christs are beginning to come out of the closet. Discomfort with What
One Truly Is, is not as strong as it was. And a great many are finding
the courage to embrace what they deeply know from what they deeply are
but have kept hidden from themselves.

And, as I&rsquo;ve been saying for the last few weeks, the call here is
for those of you who are aware of this to make a choice for glorifying
God by embodying God in the world, in words and in deeds. I&rsquo;m
saying, &ldquo;Come out of the closet! Declare YourSelf.&rdquo; Okay
&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Knowing, as we have already observed, does not lead to doing.
</div> 

And why? Because Knowing is the awareness that everything is already
done. Not done in the past. When you Know What God Is Being&mdash;and
I&rsquo;m using the word &ldquo;Being&rdquo; as a verb&mdash;when one
Knows as a direct Experience What God Is Being, one Knows that there is
nothing needing to be done to It. And if there&rsquo;s anything needing
to be done, it is in this sense that you stay on the leading edge of the
wave of the Movement of Creation so that as the quote &ldquo;Behold, I
make all things new&rdquo; unquote continues eternally, you are present
for the fullness of What God Is Being as the Knowing of it, so that the
Experience of Knowing is ever fresh.

In this sense, Knowledge can never be applied to the past. Knowledge
cannot be acquired and saved. Knowledge is the direct Now Experience of
the Movement of Creation that God Is Being and that you are inseparable from.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The confusion between your real creation and what you have made of
yourself is so profound that it has become literally impossible for you
to know anything.
</div> 

And what makes it confusing is the vehemence with which you are
committed to what you have made, and your unwillingness to disown it,
your unwillingness to abandon your maker-hood, the unwillingness to
abandon the credit you think you deserve and have gotten for the skill
with which you made whatever was made. It&rsquo;s a self-love that
stands in the way. And it is a love of a self that has existence only in
your imagination.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Knowledge is always stable, and it is quite evident that you are not.
</div> 

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Nevertheless, you are perfectly stable as God created you.
</div> 

Nevertheless, you are perfectly stable as God created you. In other
words, you recognize that you are experiencing instability, but it
hasn&rsquo;t changed What You Truly Are. Your belief hasn&rsquo;t
changed what God created right there and is Being right there where you
are. Therefore, in spite of the instability you&rsquo;re experiencing,
you are perfectly stable as God Created You, or as God Is Being You at
this instant.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In this sense, when your behavior is unstable, you are disagreeing with
God's Idea of your creation.
</div> 

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You can do this if you choose, but you would hardly want to do it if you
were in your right mind.
</div> 

Yes. Truth cannot deal with errors that you want. So, if you want an
error, you can do so if you choose. You have complete permission. But
you would hardly want to do it if you were in your Right Mind.
&ldquo;Oh, Daddy, won&rsquo;t you please make me do it? Won&rsquo;t you
kick my butt and bring me into line?&rdquo; No. No. Each of you has to
choose for your Sanity yourself.

Your insanity hasn&rsquo;t altered the Truth about you in any way. But
you&rsquo;ve chosen to be willful, and you have to abandon the
willfulness yourself.  It&rsquo;s simple. Unfortunately it means you
can&rsquo;t be enticed back. You can&rsquo;t be coerced. You can be
invited, but manipulation &hellip; no one of us who is awake will waste our time 
[laughing] attempting to manipulate your mind and coerce you because if we
do that, your egos will recognize the coercion and will turn the dynamic
into its gain. And it will say, &ldquo;Okay, I&rsquo;ll take ten steps
in this direction, but not without making a bargain with you, or not
without holding you responsible for any distress I might experience on
the way.&rdquo; And so there&rsquo;s no willingness there. It just
emphasizes the game-playing and further establishes the ego dynamic.

Nevertheless, if you want to be committed to an illusion, do it. Do it.
Sure. But you would hardly want to do it if you were in your Right Mind.

Yes?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Can you help me to better distinguish when I&rsquo;m not listening? Is
it just the experience of that subtle loss of peace?
</div> 

Ai! Yes. Subtle and not so subtle.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Right.
</div> 

But you can put a note on your refrigerator, or around the house, that
just says, &ldquo;Is it I or We?&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Can you explain that?
</div> 

Meaning at the moment that you look at the note that says, &ldquo;Is it
I or We?&rdquo;, it will cause you to question whether or not at that
moment you&rsquo;re engaged in whatever you&rsquo;re doing by yourself
or in communion with your Guide or the Holy Spirit. Is what is happening
a joint activity, whether you&rsquo;re vacuuming or whether you&rsquo;re
driving the car, or are you apparently doing it all by yourself at the
moment? That will tell you right away and will serve to give you a
reminder throughout the day to remember to do it with your Guide.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Is it just remembering to ask?
</div> 

Is what just remembering to ask?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Knowing that you&rsquo;re actually listening. Is there an experience of
it? Or is it just the fact that you say, &ldquo;Okay, I&rsquo;m willing
to do it together&rdquo;?
</div> 

Well, let&rsquo;s put it this way. If you&rsquo;re listening and not
hearing, the listening isn&rsquo;t fulfilled. If you are wanting not to
be alone and you are reaching out to the Holy Spirit or to your Guide or
to Me, and you&rsquo;re not feeling the presence of anything but your
everyday experience of yourself, then listening isn&rsquo;t fulfilled
yet. When it&rsquo;s fulfilled, you know you&rsquo;re not alone, whether
you&rsquo;re vacuuming or not. And you pay attention. You find that your
movement is led, how you move back and forth. It could almost become a
dance to you because you&rsquo;re not doing it alone. You are letting
your Guide be involved so that what you are doing is altered from the
way you do it all by yourself. And there is a feeling of camaraderie, a
Conscious Experience of Someone being present with you. So make the
little signs, &ldquo;Is it I or We?&rdquo;, just to remind you to join
if you&rsquo;re not joined.

Listening… be careful that you don&rsquo;t listen &hellip; you&rsquo;re
doing the vacuuming and you&rsquo;re listening, you know, so that your
attention is not just on what you&rsquo;re doing but open to something
else, and just continue to do your vacuuming. You want to listen and
hear, listen and feel the response. And then stay in touch so that the
connection is ongoing.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I&rsquo;m sure I&rsquo;ve felt that before, but I think I want to get a
little bit more grounded in knowing the difference, knowing for sure
when it is that I&rsquo;m experiencing and when I&rsquo;m wondering.
</div> 

Well, when you feel Loved, when you are having an Experience of Being
Loved, you know you&rsquo;re not alone. If you&rsquo;re not experiencing
that right now, then joining is not occurring right now. You know the
difference.  Just be really honest with yourself.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay. So if I&rsquo;m not hearing, just persist. [laughing]
</div>

Absolutely. Absolutely.

I just want to repeat this. The highly specific nature of invention is
not worthy of the abstract creativity of God&rsquo;s creations. So be
willing to abandon any commitment that you all have to being inventive,
to being creative, creative problem solving. [audience laughter]
That&rsquo;s a nice buzzword, isn&rsquo;t it? Creative problem solving.
And are you any good at it? You&rsquo;re worse off if you think that you
are than those who don&rsquo;t think that they are, because that means
that you think you&rsquo;ve got some skill at being the creative,
inventive problem-solver.

You have people attempting to creatively, ingeniously, ingeniously and
inventively, find ways to manipulate the matter that your body is
made-up with, made-up of, into health. And these are called drug
companies.

When the fact is that what will correct error from the bottom up is the
recognition that you don&rsquo;t have a material body. That form, the
form that you recognize as your body, is pure Spirit. The Substance of
pure Spirit is Love, Divine Love, the Father&rsquo;s Love. It&rsquo;s
therefore not bound by the laws of physics, inertia, that which calls
for time in order for change to occur and so on. And in abandoning the form that
you recognize as your body to Spirit, it becomes subject to spontaneous
reconfiguration that doesn&rsquo;t require any conscious direction from
you to become what it ought to be. The minute you release it from the
agreed-upon structures of the perception of substance as matter, it will
spontaneously reconfigure to identify what it is. Or you will find
yourself no longer biased, experiencing a biased perception of what had
been Spirit all along. And that is not inventive or ingenious or
creative as a personal accomplishment. Do you see what I&rsquo;m saying?

Healing is not limited to the laws of physics. Arriving on the moon is
not limited by the laws of physics. You mentioned &ldquo;Matrix&rdquo;
and in the first &ldquo;Matrix,&rdquo; one of the statements made to Neo
was, &ldquo;You think you&rsquo;re breathing air?!&rdquo; The sense of
air being breathed was a concept that was being provided. And breathing
air wasn&rsquo;t what was going on at all.  Likewise a material universe
isn&rsquo;t what&rsquo;s going on. And it&rsquo;s not what you&rsquo;re
in the middle of. It&rsquo;s all Spirit, which is incapable of being
sluggish, which is incapable of being limited in its movement because
the Energy is constantly available to identify the ongoing Movement of
Creation that is accomplished in the Mind of God as the Movement of
Ideas. That&rsquo;s what going on!

Okay. Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The fundamental question you continually ask yourself cannot properly be
directed to yourself at all. You keep asking what it is you are. This
implies that the answer is not only one you know, but is also one that
is up to you to supply. Yet you cannot perceive yourself correctly. You
have no image to be perceived. The word &ldquo;image&rdquo; is always
perception-related, and not a part of knowledge. Images are symbolic and
stand for something else. The idea of &ldquo;changing your image&rdquo;
recognizes the power of perception, but also implies that there is
nothing stable to know.
</div> 

Yes. Have any of you ever run up against the boundary of your mind? Have
you?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yes. Yes.
</div> 

Geographically, where was it?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Well, it was &hellip;

&hellip; about four blocks &hellip; No! No! It was when I had a vision
that totally didn&rsquo;t fit any of my mutually-agreed-upon concepts
and just, as the expression goes, blew my mind. I had no way to explain
it physically or in any other way that was not, for lack of a better
word, supernatural.
</div> 

Well, let me ask you it this way. Is your mind rectangular? Is it cubic? 
Is it an oval?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
It feels like a little dark box. [laughing]

I&rsquo;m being evasive, but I understand what you mean.
</div> 

Indeed. You are Mind. And Mind has no limits. Mind is, and always has
been, boundaryless. That means there can only be One Mind, doesn&rsquo;t
it?  You&rsquo;re not a what. You&rsquo;re a Presence&mdash;the Presence
of Mind, the Presence of that in which all Conscious Experience is
occurring infinitely.

When you make a definition, you create an artificial boundary, an
imagined boundary. And then when you confine your attention within that
boundary, you seem to lose the infinite view, the infinite connection,
you might say. But you only accomplish this by ignoring the rest, not by
actually creating a boundary.

The Function of Mind is to Know.

Let&rsquo;s continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Knowing is not open to interpretation. You may try to
&ldquo;interpret&rdquo; meaning, but this is always open to error
because it refers to the perception of meaning.
</div> 

In other words, it refers to a definition of the word
&ldquo;meaning&rdquo; rather than referring to that of which
you&rsquo;re trying to find the meaning.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Such incongruities are the result of attempts to regard yourself as
separated and un-separated at the same time. It is impossible to make so
fundamental a confusion without increasing your overall confusion still
further. Your mind may have become very ingenious, but as always happens
when method and content are separated, it is utilized in a futile
attempt to escape from an inescapable impasse.
</div> 

Yes. Every attempt you make to improve a human condition without
arriving &hellip; as though the human condition were real will always
cause you to remain enmeshed in the human condition. Is that clear?
You&rsquo;re trying to do the impossible.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Why can&rsquo;t she step in front of a car?
</div> 

Mark, why can&rsquo;t she step in front of the car? You tell me.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
You met her at the place where meaningful and not meaningful come
together and by her listening to you, you helped her out of her
misperception, and you&rsquo;re in charge of cars and time and all of
that.  And I put all that together from reading this book and it&rsquo;s
quite confusing. [great audience amusement]
</div> 

I am not in charge of cars.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
This is where instability reigns. It always is based on the need. Need.
Needs met.

I understand need.

The need to know. Needs met. Once we keep grounded in that, we
won&rsquo;t be so &hellip;
</div> 

I cannot be in charge of myself much less cars.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
What about time and space? I mean, it says you&rsquo;re in charge of
time and space and in charge of everything that has no meaning.
I have this documented too.
</div> 

Would you accept that? Would you accept such a job?  To be in charge of
all that is meaningless.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And to include time and space in that category?
</div> 

I cannot override free will. I am not in charge of this dastardly
miscreation that each of you has miscreated and made commitment to,
because what you have created doesn&rsquo;t exist.  But I can meet you,
my Brother, as my Brother, and be the Presence of Love with you that
causes you to remember what it feels like not to be alone, and thus
distract you from what is meaningless that has been binding you.

And you know, because Love is Love, as you and I walk you out of your
misperceptions, I counsel you wisely not to stop breathing even though
you think you&rsquo;re breathing air, because until you know that there
is no air to breathe and you don&rsquo;t need it and what is happening
called breathing air is something other than what you believe it is, my
telling you to stop breathing would create for you a very frightening
experience. Because there would have been no provision of understanding
what&rsquo;s really going on and called quote &ldquo;breathing
air&rdquo; unquote.

And so I will tell you how not to frighten yourself any more than
you&rsquo;re already frightened because a long time ago you turned away
from the Altar. And I will bring you back to the Altar. I will refresh
You with the Truth about You in a way that reduces your fear and allows
you to find the courage you didn&rsquo;t know You had. The courage that
doesn&rsquo;t require force to move, to move with.

Forget about being in charge of cars and being in charge of all that is
meaningless. I accepted the job. But that&rsquo;s not where my work is.
My work is with you, with each of you as Brothers and Sisters, as Divine
Beings, as Divine Ones, as the Presence of God. And as long as you
believe with all your might that being in front of an oncoming car will
kill you, I will advise you not to step in front of one. And when you
finally understand why you can&rsquo;t be harmed, then you can walk
wherever you want&mdash;in front of cars, horses, rabid dogs, off the
edge of buildings, into a propeller, whatever.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Not as an I. I mean that&rsquo;s there. The doorway is the big I and the
We.
</div> 

That is for sure.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So, We We We all the way home.
</div> 

Indeed.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I got that.
</div> 

Indeed. Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Ingenuity is totally divorced from knowledge, because knowledge does not
require ingenuity. Ingenious thinking is not the truth that shall set
you free, but you are free of the need to engage in it when you are
willing to let it go.
</div> 

Ahh! Oh! You should all feel greatly relieved because there&rsquo;s no
effort called for. There&rsquo;s no effort called for in coming back
into your Right Mind. Ingenious thinking is effortful, but it&rsquo;s
not the Truth that shall set you free. And I&rsquo;m going to say, you
will be free of the need to engage in it when you&rsquo;re willing to
let it go. That&rsquo;s all. You just have to be willing to let it go.
Let go of the apparently satisfying exercise of ingenious creativity
where you, not We, where you can make a difference in the world. Any
difference you make in the world as a result of ingenuity will be
nothing more than a variation on an age-old theme that has for ages
constituted the re-establishment of and the continuation of the human
condition.

When you&rsquo;re willing to abandon the need to be ingenious and you
abandon the &ldquo;I&rdquo; attitude adopting the &ldquo;We&rdquo;
attitude as an actual experience of joining, there will be wonders that
you can&rsquo;t imagine. But they won&rsquo;t be the result of
ingenuity. They will be the result of your no longer blocking the
Movement of God that embodies the meaning of the words, &ldquo;Behold, I
make all things new.&rdquo; And you have a week to let that sink in.

I am enjoying myself!

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I&rsquo;m enjoying myself too.
</div> 

I am enjoying the experience of you hearing me. I&rsquo;m enjoying the
experience of your hearing me and your knowing that you&rsquo;re hearing
me.  Many times you hear me, but you don&rsquo;t know that we connected.
I am enjoying the conscious camaraderie, the conscious connection with
you.  Not with you and you and you and you. I am enjoying&mdash;the
&ldquo;you&rdquo; isn&rsquo;t the most important part of what I&rsquo;m
saying&mdash;I am enjoying the conscious connection because You are
Consciousness. You are Mind. I am enjoying the connection that is the
real connection that has nothing to do with personal little I&rsquo;s,
capital letter &ldquo;I,&rdquo; egos, little you, you, you, you, you. Do
you see what I&rsquo;m saying?

I am the universal smile at this moment. [audience laughter]

And I look forward to every single moment with you between now and next
weekend, [audience laughter] as well as next Sunday. We will call it a
day.

[^1]: T3.IV Error and the Ego
[^2]: Students commenting or asking a question.

