---
title: Jun 8, 2003
ref: T3.V Beyond Pereception
---

Okay. Good afternoon. And welcome to all of you who are joining us on
the internet as well.

For those of you here, as well as those are on the internet, this is not
a closed group and you are welcome to and are invited to invite your friends
who you think might be interested to participate. Just because
we&rsquo;re into the book doesn&rsquo;t mean that no one new can start.
Okay. Well, let&rsquo;s go right into the book.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Prayer is a way of asking for something. It is the medium of miracles.
But the only meaningful prayer is for forgiveness, because those who
have been forgiven have everything. Once forgiveness has been accepted,
prayer in the usual sense becomes utterly meaningless. The prayer for
forgiveness is nothing more than a request that you may be able to
recognize what you already have. In electing perception instead of
knowledge, you placed yourself in a position where you could resemble
your Father only by perceiving miraculously. [^1]
</div> 

Note the word &ldquo;resemble.&rdquo; You placed yourself in a position
where you could resemble your Father. But the fact is that you&rsquo;re
not here to resemble the Father. You&rsquo;re here to be the Father
expressed.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have lost the knowledge that you yourself are a miracle of God.
Creation is your Source and your only real function.
</div> 

That pretty well summarizes everything we&rsquo;ve been talking about in
terms of turning toward the Altar. Forgiving means to give something for
something. And in turning to the Altar, you&rsquo;re saying,
&ldquo;I&rsquo;m willing to give my predisposition to interpret things
the way I want to interpret them for Your View, Father, for Truth as You
Are Being It.&rdquo;

Because at the bottom line, all of you in some way feel guilty, and mind
you, that feeling of discomfort is like the bell on the garbage truck
when it&rsquo;s in reverse, saying, &ldquo;This is a more dangerous
circumstance than when I&rsquo;m moving forward.&rdquo; It would seem to
you that punishment would naturally be forthcoming for your
disobedience, if you will. And so it&rsquo;s comforting and practical to
suggest to you that you need to ask for forgiveness. That sets your mind
in the right direction. But, [laughing] because of the polarized nature
of your attitude when you&rsquo;re separate, it&rsquo;s easy for you to
imagine that the Father would say, &ldquo;No! I won&rsquo;t forgive you.
You have been too disobedient and you deserve to suffer a little before
I extend My forgiveness.&rdquo; And so, it&rsquo;s necessary to go a
step further and understand that forgiveness is really embodied in your
willingness to abandon your perceptions and your confidences in the way
things work in favor of having the Father&rsquo;s View, the
Father&rsquo;s Perspective revealed to you, which naturally brings you
back into your Divine Function of Being the Presence of God expressing
Himself right where you are and claiming no right to a private and
personal authority.

I&rsquo;ve said before that prayer is saying &ldquo;Yes&rdquo; to God,
not asking God for something. Which is another way of saying,
&ldquo;Prayer is yielding to God.&rdquo; And once you&rsquo;ve yielded
to God, prayer in the usual sense becomes utterly meaningless.

And the last sentence there. Creation is your Source and your only Real
Function.&rdquo; You simply aren&rsquo;t here to have a perception of
what that is, an evaluation of what that is, an opinion about what that
is. You see?  Everything is so much simpler than the way you&rsquo;ve
been doing it.

Let&rsquo;s continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
May I ask a question on that paragraph? [^2]
</div> 

Yes, you may.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
It&rsquo;s on the last sentence where is says, Creation is my Function.
I&rsquo;m still a little hazy on what that would be like since I&rsquo;m
perceiving and trying to be ingenious and intellectual all the time.
</div> 

Well, it means none of that!

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I realize that. So therefore I don&rsquo;t even have a feel for what
it&rsquo;s&hellip; and since it&rsquo;s my only Function, I think I
ought to look into it.  [laugh] [slight audience laugh]
</div> 

That recognition is the dawning of wisdom. Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
It&rsquo;s a start.
</div> 

Yes. First of all, it&rsquo;s an Experience of perfect Peace. Perfect
Peace is you experiencing no self-consciousness, you experiencing no
fear, you experiencing no vulnerability, you not caring whether others
have judgments of you, on you. And in that space, if I may put it that
way, you find yourself being completely undefended. In being completely
undefended, there is no inclination to assert yourself in any way.

And it&rsquo;s like floating on your back in a river where no energy
needs to be extended for survival or to achieve a goal. And when you
find yourself floating in a river, you find nothing static about your
life because the current of the river is moving you and you are letting
yourself be at one with it. In practical terms that means that you will
find yourself functioning quote &ldquo;in the world&rdquo; unquote,
busy, active, but not busy or active achieving personal goals, things
you have made-up to accomplish. And when that happens, you will find
yourself by virtue of having abandoned yourself to the Movement of Being
reflecting the Father&rsquo;s Will, embodying the Father&rsquo;s Will.
And thus, everything you find yourself doing will have Real Meaning,
with a capital &ldquo;M,&rdquo; that for lack of better words, will
glorify God quote &ldquo;in the world&rdquo; unquote, embodying His
purpose and blessing everyone. That&rsquo;s the beginning of the
experience and that&rsquo;s the nature of the experience. That&rsquo;s
the end of the answer.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So you know that doesn&rsquo;t sound like the common ordinary
run-of-the-mill definition of creating. You know, like we think of
someone who&rsquo;s a creative artist or you know, &ldquo;Gee, that
person is really creative. Look at what they did to their garden.&rdquo;
But it sounds like what you&rsquo;re talking about is where you actually
have no idea or ideas in your head that you claim that come from
thinking and planning. It&rsquo;s more like, &ldquo;Oh, that&rsquo;s
interesting. Look how that worked out. Gee, I wonder what&rsquo;s going
to happen next? Well, I wonder how that&rsquo;s going to resolve
itself?&rdquo; So, it&rsquo;s kind of that internal dialogue as opposed
to the ones that we&rsquo;re normally &hellip; is that &hellip;
</div> 

That&rsquo;s exactly correct. It&rsquo;s where everything that you do is
inspired, not reasoned out. And, as you say, it is only afterwards when
you look and see what has happened that you will marvel at it. You will
find yourself in the beginning saying often, &ldquo;Man, I would never
have thought of that!&rdquo; Or &ldquo;I would never have been that
expansive. I would never have been that free in expressing what was
expressed.&rdquo; And so you will find that Creation has occurred and it
has not been separate from you in any way. But it will not have had
anything to do with the thinker, the planner, the imaginer, the smart
ass, the one who was inventive. And you know, it&rsquo;s when you let
that happen and you see the perfection of what happens that you begin to
realize how much energy you wasted, how much trepidation you experienced
when you were trying to be ingenious yourself.

And at the bottom line, you will experience the fact that there is a God
and that nothing is up to you, and nothing ever was up to you to do all
by yourself.

If you were to do this rather persistently, you might be surprised to
find that it wasn&rsquo;t until well after the fact, it wasn&rsquo;t
until some &ldquo;time&rdquo; (in quotes) had passed that you realized
that all of this happened in the absence of fear. That you were and had
been experiencing utter Peace. And then you will say, &ldquo;Ah, what a
difference from the way I used to do it and the way I used to feel and
the debilitating effect of the undercurrent of anxiety.&rdquo;

Peace doesn&rsquo;t come up and hit you in the face. But when you
discover you have been being for six months without fear, then you
understand experientially what Peace is, and how wonderful it is and
that it really is your Birthright. And this realization helps to devalue
any inclination you have to continue to operate independently as an
authorizer in your own right.

Being part of the Movement of Creation by not behaving in any way
separate from It causes You and the Creator to be indistinguishable. And
you find your very Being to Itself Be the Movement of Creation, an
experience in which is pure satisfaction, even though it is utterly
obvious to you that you haven&rsquo;t had one little speck of an idea of
your own being implemented.

This is why what I&rsquo;m talking about is so unsatisfying and
unappealing to the ego. You all get quite a hit from having your back to
the Altar and imagining that everything is there for you to deal with on
your own and to define and to manipulate and to protect yourself
against. So, [laughing] there&rsquo;s no way I can appeal to your egos
in order to help you or get you to wake up because that&rsquo;s the one
thing you have to give for the Father&rsquo;s Point of View.
That&rsquo;s the one thing you have to give up in order to have a
replacement of something Meaningful. And there&rsquo;s the forgiveness.
Okay.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
A follow-up one?
</div> 

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
How does intuition fit into this scheme? Because a lot of people will
say, &ldquo;well, you know, I have a feeling,&rdquo; but so often
it&rsquo;s a projection.  You know, it&rsquo;s like when I was in
Hawaii, I kept running into people who wanted to start a healing center.
And every new person, &ldquo;I&rsquo;m going to start a healing
center.&rdquo; And after a year of listening to people talk about
&hellip; I began to recognize that what they were looking for was
healing for themselves. And then they would project it out there into
the world. So, many people have intuition, or think that they have
intuition, and I can&rsquo;t help but feel that intuition in some
&hellip; it&rsquo;s like, you know, you do recognize that there&rsquo;s
a lack, you know what I mean, in your life. There&rsquo;s something
missing. So how does intuition fit into &hellip;
</div> 

I would put it this way. Intuition is inspiration not looked into deeply
enough. Real Intuition is an Experience of Knowing something True, and
that is different from projection. And the word is used carelessly. But
intuition is like the leading edge of the experience of inspiration. And
instead of acting quickly on intuition, one should abide with it and go
deeper into it&mdash;in-tu-it&mdash; more deeply, to in to it&mdash;to intuit it more
deeply so that the fullness of the inspiration can flow into
manifestation or embodiment.  Does that answer your question?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yes, thank you.
</div> 

You are welcome.

CHRIS: Raj.

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
CHRIS: We have a question from Amena.
</div> 

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
CHRIS: Amena on the internet would like to know is the process of
creating art and music where there is no planning and where it just
emerges from that inspiration, is [that] a moment of God-expressing?
</div> 

Indeed. It is when one tries to be creative to order that it stops being
inspiration. If someone says, &ldquo;My living room is done in blues and
greens, and I would like a painting that would harmonize with and
complement the color scheme of my living room,&rdquo; that&rsquo;s when
an artist ceases to be an artist. When he tries to be artistic to order,
to fulfill a request. Because the Movement of God considers nothing
except the blossoming, forthcoming of Love in utter Originality and
nothing other than Love is taken into consideration.

Now I want to refine that because you can sit a monkey down at a piano
and the monkey will behave without plans, and what will emerge will not
be beautiful or harmonious. And so thoughtless action is not the same as
doing something without a personal plan. Let me put it this way.
Inspiration is a Movement that is allowed by you, by any one of you, and
when it is allowed, that Movement finds expression in form, and that is
different from thoughtless, unplanned action.

So just letting go and behaving randomly and without concern&mdash;and
ultimately without Love&mdash;will not result in art or beauty or that
which blesses everyone. So because of the tendency of much metaphysical
and new age thought in this present day, I need to make that distinction
so that no one thinks I&rsquo;m saying that if you just behave without
plans, you will be doing God&rsquo;s Will. It&rsquo;s not true. The only
way you will be doing God&rsquo;s Will is when you have turned toward
God, desiring to know the Truth, desiring to Experience the Movement of
Love so that your every breath, your every movement reflects that into
expression.

Okay. Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The statement &ldquo;God created man in his own image and
likeness&rdquo; needs reinterpretation. &ldquo;Image&rdquo; can be
understood as &ldquo;thought,&rdquo; and &ldquo;likeness&rdquo; as
&ldquo;of a like quality.&rdquo; God did create spirit in His Own
Thought and of a quality like to His Own. There is nothing else.
</div> 

I&rsquo;m going to interrupt here. We spoke in the last two weeks about
the fact that Mind, God moves. And the Movement is a Movement of Ideas
and those Ideas are perfectly recognizable to that which formed the
Ideas.  And in their recognizability, they are visible and tangible, but
not material. All of it is pure Spirit.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Perception, on the other hand, is impossible without a belief in
&ldquo;more&rdquo; and &ldquo;less.&rdquo; At every level it involves
selectivity. Perception is a continual process of accepting and
rejecting, organizing and reorganizing, shifting and changing.
Evaluation is an essential part of perception, because judgments are
necessary in order to select.
</div> 

Yes. In order to perceive, in order to accept or reject, organize and
reorganize, there has to be something separate from the Movement of
Creation to observe it. And therefore be in a position to analyze it.
And so, of course, one must have turned one&rsquo;s back from the Altar
in order to create the imaginary environment in which one could be an
independent observer, and then proceed to evaluate. Part of what is very
dissatisfying to the ego in the process of awakening is that in yielding
to the river, floating on your back, expending no energy whatsoever for
survival or the achievement of goals, one has abandoned the so-called
right to make evaluations. You can&rsquo;t even say, &ldquo;Well,
I&rsquo;d like to be closer to the edge of the river.&rdquo; Or
&ldquo;I&rsquo;d like to be in a quieter part of the river.&rdquo; Or
&ldquo;I&rsquo;d like to be in a faster part of the river.&rdquo;

One has arrived at a point of saying, &ldquo;Thy Will be done. I will
fit in.&rdquo; Those are the terrible words. I will fit in. I yield to
the Movement of Creation and hold myself separate from it no longer. And
in doing that, abandoning this apparent right to be separate, you find
yourself at One with It, and It Being The Wholeness Of You.

Mind spake and Form appeared. That&rsquo;s a brief description of
Creation.  Or, Mind speaks and Form appears. But understand that this
Form is not matter. Mind speaks and recognizes Itself in that Act or
Action. And it&rsquo;s all mental. It&rsquo;s all Mind. And the
Substance of the Experience is Spirit, not matter.

Now, what I want to bring home at this moment is that nothing that you
are experiencing right now is matter. Not the chairs you&rsquo;re
sitting on.  Not the bodies that are sitting on the chairs. Not the
trees. Nothing that you are experiencing is matter. And, therefore,
nothing that you are experiencing right now is bound by what you would
call the laws of matter or physics.

Form follows Function. Mind spake and Form appeared. Mind spake and
Function functioned and was recognizable and identifiable. The Movement
of God, of Creation, is Be-ing&mdash;the verb Be-ing. It is Movement. It
is Function. If Form follows Function, it serves Function. It renders
Function visible and tangible. Not materially tangible, but
experienceable. With what? The only thing there is, Mind. And
that&rsquo;s what&rsquo;s going on right now for every single one of
you. It&rsquo;s the only thing going on, period.

What does this mean? This means that if a sprinkler head is jammed by a
little piece of metal that is supposed to shift and it&rsquo;s not
shifting, that it seems that the function of the idea is blocked by a
little piece of metal, matter, and if you think it is matter, you will
stand there and grouse about having to get into the water while
it&rsquo;s running to try to loosen it up, to get it to function. If you
will realize in moments like that that there is no material sprinkler
head there, that it is an idea which someone allowed to register in his
or her mind and render it visible. And if you will at the same time
remember that Form follows Function, then you will realize that
there&rsquo;s no material piece of metal that has the ability to do
anything other than render visible the Function of the sprinkler head,
of the idea. And you can watch that sprinkler head begin to function
properly because there is no matter there.

The Energy of Spirit looked at when your back is to the Altar, minus the
Father&rsquo;s Perspective, appears to be able to function or not
function, to allow or to block. And this could apply to the veins in
your body, the arteries. The flesh of the arteries themselves that seem
perhaps to be able to change shape and begin to block the flow of blood. If you
think it&rsquo;s matter, you&rsquo;re going to have to deal with it as
matter. You&rsquo;re going to have to manipulate it. You&rsquo;re going
to have to oppose its ability to do something that does not identify the
function it has and the functions it allows. But the moment you are
willing to challenge that and recognize at least as an idea that
there&rsquo;s no matter to it and that what you see is simply the
visibility of the Movement of an Idea which God Is Being at that moment,
you then will release the visibility from your belief that it is
immovable matter, and you will be able to recognize that Spirit, 
the Substance that is Spirit which is serving the Function that God has
set in place can reconfigure, if you will, instantaneously, to identify 
the Function that
it&rsquo;s rendering visible and tangible as a Conscious Experience, not
as matter.

You really need to enjoy the opportunities you have daily for
reassessing anything that you think of as matter, and challenge it with
the idea, if nothing less, that if it appears to be matter, that it must be pure Spirit.
And pure Spirit is unable to act on its own. It can only render visible
and tangible the Idea that God Is Expressing. This is very important.

There is another aspect I will go into and that is when we speak of
energy, like light from the sun, or energy like electricity, you cannot
say that electricity is the Energy of Spirit. It is a modified
experience of Spirit. And it is a material experience of it. And the way
you can know is that it has polarities. Spirit is not polarized. The
Energy of Spirit which is Love is Pure, purely single. It therefore does
not have the capacity to kill. The energy of the sun, light can seem to
damage your skin, and, after all of these centuries of everyone thriving
under the sun wearing no clothes whatsoever, now, suddenly, the sun can
cause cancer. Interesting shift of belief. And everybody buys into it.
This energy that can seem to cause cancer and damage things is not the
Energy of Spirit. It&rsquo;s not the Energy of Love that is Light. And
you need to be clear on that.

Whatever has polarities is something you are seeing independent of the
Father. It is the way you are perceiving the only Energy there is when
your back is to the Altar. And absolutely everything you see with your
back to the Altar will be polarized. And why will it be polarized? It
will be polarized because you&rsquo;re attempting to do something
impossible.  And you&rsquo;re believing that you&rsquo;re succeeding at
it. And so you are in error, and that error will be reflected in
absolutely every part of Creation that you&rsquo;re experiencing. It is
like putting on a pair of polarized glasses. It doesn&rsquo;t change
anything you&rsquo;re looking at, but it causes you to perceive
everything different from what it is.

So, again, I encourage you all to have fun consciously approaching
everything that you run into with the remembrance that there&rsquo;s not
a bit of matter there. And because there&rsquo;s not a bit of matter
there, what you&rsquo;re seeing is incapable of operating at odds with
the Function which has brought forth, or the Movement of Creation that
has brought forth, or the Idea of God that spontaneously brings into
manifestation the visibility and tangibility of the Idea. And therefore,
this so-called material universe isn&rsquo;t a material universe and you
cannot possibly be in bondage to it.

Form, remember this, Form follows Function. Function the Movement of
Mind elicits without interruption without delay, that which makes that
Movement recognizable&mdash;visibility and tangibility. And the only
thing the visibility and tangibility can do is identify the Movement of
Creation, the Movement and Presence of God. Form never ends up being
independent from that which it is identifying.

And the definition of matter is something which is independent of its
Source, of its Creation. A statue carved 200 years ago, you go and look
at today and experience as an object in its own right. And the one who
carved it is irrelevant. You see. But that&rsquo;s not the nature of
Creation.  That which Authors All That Is, is always Authoring it.
Creation is Current. And Creation in every single moment being
inseparable from Its Source has only one thing it can do, render visible
and tangible or experienceable that Source now.

Why am I harping on this? Because you need to become free of your
bondage to what you think Form is. So that a sprinkler head returns 
to its function immediately without repair. So that a heart straining at
circulating the blood in your body can return instantly to identifying
the Idea of which it is the visibility and tangibility, the Function
that it is rendering visible. A Function that is a Current Idea in the
Mind of God and which is incapable of actually becoming embodied as
something that has polarities, as something that can work or not work.
That can work well or work poorly. That can, if it works well, allow you
to survive. And if it works poorly, kill you. You see? And I want you to
have fun with this. What a delightful thing to become free of the
bondage you have been experiencing to matter, which is nothing more than
Spirit, an Idea, a nonmaterial Presence that you have chosen to look at
with a peculiar bias that then keeps you bound. This is part of your
emerging freedom. This is part of waking up.

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
What I&rsquo;m hearing you say today is there&rsquo;s some light bulbs
going off here, that there&rsquo;s &hellip;
</div> 

I hope they&rsquo;re going on!

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
You&rsquo;re right. It not just applies to our alive body,
but this applies to inanimate objects too, because there is no such
thing as an inanimate object.
</div> 

There&rsquo;s no such thing as an object that isn&rsquo;t energy.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
That it &hellip; right.
</div> 

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
What you&rsquo;re saying, so that if we look at it, really look at it
the way we&rsquo;re supposed to be looking at it, it&rsquo;s making
itself new, then &hellip;
</div> 

Absolutely.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
&hellip; that allows for that. So there is no such thing as
deterioration.
</div> 

That is correct.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
This is really something.
</div> 

And that is part of the bondage that you all deserve to be free of, and
which you won&rsquo;t be free of as long as you continue to say,
&ldquo;That&rsquo;s matter.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I&rsquo;m getting a glimpse of this because I remember I had a
mechanical apparatus that I prayed would work and it did.
</div> 

Indeed.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So it wasn&rsquo;t mechanical. It was part of what you&rsquo;re &hellip;
we are saying today, of God&rsquo;s Expression of the Idea which through
Love re-energized or remade itself new.
</div> 

That&rsquo;s right. You see, when you look at a sprinkler head, you say,
&ldquo;Well, the spring is going to wear out sooner or later.&rdquo; And
so you&rsquo;re bound. The minute you recognize, though, that that
spring is an idea, a nonmaterial idea, you know that ideas aren&rsquo;t
material. In the recognition that it&rsquo;s an idea and that what you
see there is the visibility and tangibility of the idea, and that the
visibility and tangibility of the idea can&rsquo;t &hellip; has no
capacity to do anything other than identify the Function of the Idea,
then you&rsquo;ll realize that the spring does not have to wear out. And
in fact, the spring can&rsquo;t wear out, and it can&rsquo;t become
detached, and it can&rsquo;t do anything other than render visible and
tangible the Idea, the Function, the Movement of Creation that embodies
the idea. Amazing things will happen when you release everything from
your definition of it as matter.

Okay. Let us continue. Okay.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Just briefly. So this means a changed perception is where the miracle
is. That is what the miracle is all about, a changed perception in a
sprinkler head.
</div> 

Exactly. No, not a changed perception in the sprinkler head, but in the
observer of the sprinkler head. Yes. Indeed.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So nothing will ever wear out?

Oh my goodness. This is overcoming death, in a sense. These are all
these definitions. We&rsquo;ve created deterioration. We&rsquo;ve
created it all by our word.
</div> 

Indeed. Planned obsolescence it&rsquo;s called. If everything is going
to be eternal, I tell you one thing and if everything is going to have
to be somewhere eternally, you will not fill the Universe with junk
anymore. And when something is made, it will be an ultimate thing that
you will be happy with always, and not need to replace with something
more stimulating than the last thing to keep you alive and happy with
life. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Resurrecting everything is gonna be more fun.
</div> 

Uncovering everything that is Real is going to be fun and let&rsquo;s
let it begin now. Not a year from now. Not a week from now. Go out of
here today, or before you leave here today, question everything
you&rsquo;re looking at, because you think everything is material
whether it&rsquo;s the roses, or the glass, or the fabric that your
pants are made of. You think it&rsquo;s matter. And you&rsquo;ve been
taught what matter is. Well, now it&rsquo;s time for re-education.
It&rsquo;s time for re-definition. Does the glass have scratches in it?
It appears to, but that is not part of the Function or Intent of the
glass table top, so that cannot be the Truth. And because it is not
matter, and because the only thing it can do is identify its Purpose or
its Function perfectly, and what you are experiencing as a piece of
glass has no capacity to do otherwise, nor reason to do anything
otherwise, you can expect the scratches to disappear.

And it doesn&rsquo;t matter if they don&rsquo;t disappear the first time
you do this. Your habit of interpreting what that piece of glass is and
how glass behaves is well seated. There&rsquo;s a deep groove in your
mind. It&rsquo;s a habit. And I&rsquo;m encouraging you to start
breaking the habit. And the more you can look at a thing and say,
&ldquo;That&rsquo;s not matter. That&rsquo;s Spirit.&rdquo; And, as you
drive home and you see the streetlight, &ldquo;That&rsquo;s not matter.
That&rsquo;s Spirit. That&rsquo;s an Idea.&rdquo; Well, you know that at
some point it was an idea in somebody&rsquo;s mind who designs
streetlights. Take it a step further and realize that if it exists at
all, it&rsquo;s an Idea in the Mind of God, pure Spirit, and that which
is the Mind of God which is the only Mind there is universally, has
formed; was like its Source, Pure Idea recognizable to the Mind which
formed it. And therefore, there&rsquo;s not a bit of matter to it.

If you engage in this often during your day, it will begin if not to
create a new groove quickly, to weaken the resolve you have in your mind
as far as your sureness that you know what everything is, and it will
begin to undo the confidence that you have that it&rsquo;s all matter.
None of it is matter.

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yesterday I took apart an old Volkswagen engine in hopes of fixing it
quickly, only to find that just about every part inside that engine is
junk. So, I&rsquo;m gonna go home and stop working on it.  I think
I&rsquo;m just gonna sit with it and just let it lie there. And
I&rsquo;ll continue to just sit with it, probably, knowing me, and it
will probably continue to lie there scattered all over the table.
</div> 

Well, you will find that a time will come when you&rsquo;ll have to go
out and buy new parts because you can&rsquo;t just continue to have it
spread out on the table. I&rsquo;m telling you how to begin to break
the habit. I&rsquo;m not saying that you cannot have instantaneous
healing of that engine &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I didn&rsquo;t mean to imply that, I&rsquo;m just &hellip;
</div> 

I know.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
&hellip; adding a bit.
</div> 

But I am adding a clarification here, because as you proceed to undo the
dream you have created, you&rsquo;re still going to have to be practical
and see that the human need is met until the transformation, the
miracle, the sudden shift of perception occurs more spontaneously and
more frequently. And you will thank your lucky stars that the idea is
still valid because you can go and find another part that is an
expression of that same idea.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Exactly. I think that I have a better attitude &hellip;
</div> 

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
&hellip; about the whole thing.
</div> 

Indeed. Indeed.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And it&rsquo;s not so much an insurmountable chore to me right now
&hellip;
</div> 

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
&hellip; having heard you.
</div> 

Good.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yes.
</div> 

Because you should enjoy this process.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Exactly! What kicked in my response to speak on the mike right now was
your statement, &ldquo;I want you to enjoy yourselves.&rdquo;
</div> 

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
You know, until letting go and letting what is, I&rsquo;ve heard you say
many times before, what is Real in each and every thing &hellip;
</div> 

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
&hellip; just simply be. And &hellip;
</div> 

Indeed.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Thank you.
</div> 

You are welcome.

No, we must continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
What happens to perceptions if there are no judgments and nothing but
perfect equality? Perception becomes impossible.
</div> 

Stop right there. These two sentences should be written out and put on
your refrigerator door. What happens to perceptions if there are no
judgments and nothing but perfect equality? It&rsquo;s simple.
Perception becomes impossible. To have a sense of the Kingdom of
Heaven different from what it really is becomes impossible. You
don&rsquo;t need to work to change anything back into something else.
You see that? But if you abandon judgments and in its wake there is
nothing but perfect equality, perception becomes impossible.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Truth can only be known.
</div> 

Period.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Period.
</div> 

Or Truth only can be known. That&rsquo;s the meaning.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
All of it is equally true, and knowing any part of it is to know all of
it. Only perception involves partial awareness. Knowledge transcends the
laws governing perception, because partial knowledge is impossible. It
is all one and has no separate parts. You who are really one with it
need but know yourself and your knowledge is complete. To know
God&rsquo;s miracle is to know Him.
</div> 

And you are His miracle.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Can I ask a very brief question?
</div> 

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So whenever we see a work of art or a piece of music and recognize the
Truth in it, at least to some extent the individuals involved in that in
their following their inspiration had stopped seeing what they were
working with as matter and saw it as Spirit. Otherwise the Truth and the
value couldn&rsquo;t have been being expressed there.
</div> 

That is correct.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And then you were describing seeing the sprinkler as whole, you were
really talking about what maybe could be called an extremely high form
of art.
</div> 

You could say that. Yes. Indeed.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Forgiveness is the healing of the perception of separation. Correct
perception of your brother is necessary, because minds have chosen to
see themselves as separate.
</div> 

In other words, you start out, since it&rsquo;s a given that everyone
has chosen to see himself as separate, it is essential to begin with
correct perception, even though perception isn&rsquo;t ultimate. Correct
perception of your Brother is necessary because minds have chosen to see
themselves as separate.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Spirit knows God completely. That is its miraculous power. The fact that
each one has this power completely is a condition entirely alien to the
world&rsquo;s thinking. The world believes that if anyone has
everything, there is nothing left.
</div> 

That&rsquo;s because they think everything is matter.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
But God&rsquo;s miracles are as total as His Thoughts because they are
His Thoughts.
</div> 

Indeed.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As long as perception lasts prayer has a place. Since perception rests
on lack, those who perceive have not totally accepted the Atonement and
given themselves over to truth.
</div> 

Oh! There it is again! Given themselves over to Truth. Yielding to
Truth, abandoning self-made authority, imagined self-made authority. Oh!
Becoming a puppet of God. Oh! Since perception rests on lack, those who
perceive have not totally accepted the Atonement and given themselves
over to truth. There&rsquo;s the forgiveness. How about giving yourself,
giving your present separated sense of yourself over to God so that it
might be replaced with the Truth about you.

That&rsquo;s the ultimate exchange, isn&rsquo;t it? That you would
abandon your definition of yourself and all the rights you think it has
and all the power, and all the potential for success that you think it
has, and giving it up for the Father&rsquo;s Perspective about You,
giving it up for the purpose of glorifying God rather than yourself. For
the purpose of letting GOD BE ALL THERE IS OF YOU because that&rsquo;s
ALL there ever has been of You.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Perception is based on a separated state, so that anyone who perceives
at all needs healing.
</div> 

Yes. Anyone who perceives at all is in need of healing. Every single one
of you are in need of healing. Does that make you awful? No. But hey! It
means that there are glorious things for you to discover that
you&rsquo;re missing out on. So forget about being down on yourself
because you need healing, because you&rsquo;re in a state of ignorance,
and let your curiosity lead you to the discovery of what&rsquo;s True
about YourSelf. Let it lead you to the acknowledgement that the
streetlight is all Spirit, not matter, and therefore eternal.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Communion, not prayer, is the natural state of those who know.
</div> 

And there is another way of describing what I spoke of as floating on
your back on the river. Communion is being present with the Movement
without asserting any authority of your own that you imagine that you
have. Communion is an innocent allowing of yourself to be present with,
and in no way separate from, God. Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God and His miracle are inseparable.
</div> 

And again remember that you have been described as His miracle.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
How beautiful indeed are the Thoughts of God who live in His Light!
</div> 

Oh. You&rsquo;re a Thought of God. And how beautiful indeed are the
Thoughts of God who live in His Light, rather than in the darkness of
your own imagined private authority and ability to succeed at overcoming
the duality and the conflict that you&rsquo;ve created by turning your
back on the Altar without having to turn your face toward the Altar.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your worth is beyond perception because it is beyond doubt. Do not
perceive yourself in different lights. Know yourself in the One Light
where the miracle that is you is perfectly clear.
</div> 

Wow! How inspiring! How wonderful! And you&rsquo;ve all gotten the
point. And I think you&rsquo;ve gotten it without a sense of labor, and
you will be able to leave today challenging the materiality of your
world with delight rather than awful seriousness.

I know I&rsquo;m beginning to sound repetitious, but, for lack of better
words, the energy of our communion together, and I&rsquo;m not excluding
anyone listening or joining us on the internet, the energy of our
joining together is, I&rsquo;m going to put it this way, less and less
dense, and therefore, again for lack of better words, more and more
enjoyable.

And though it is impossible for me to feel bad, I can only convey to you
what I need to convey to you by saying, it really feels good to be with
you in this way. And it has been a most pleasant experience. And I want
to say, thank you. And I look forward to being with you next week.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Thank you.
</div> 
{: .omit}

You are welcome. Okay.
{: .omit}

[^1]: T3.V Beyond Pereception
[^2]: Students commenting or asking a question.

