---
title: Jun 15, 2003
ref: T3.VI Judgement and the Authority Problem
---

Good afternoon. It&rsquo;s good to have you here. And I welcome everyone
on the internet as well. Before we begin, I would just like to touch on
a couple of things that we discussed last week.

Remember that an Idea leaves not Its Source. Therefore the visibility
and tangibility of that Idea, in other words, the recognizablity of It
by the Mind that formed It, is not something different or separate from
the Source. It is the Idea Itself. It is such an ingrained habit to
think that creation is something separate from its creator, like a clay
pot is something different from the one who threw it, the one who formed
it. It is such an ingrained habit that there&rsquo;s a tendency to think
when I spoke last week about the spring in the sprinkler head as though
that spring is an idea that was in the mind of the one who conceived of
it but that the spring in the sprinkler head is itself matter. Or the
same with the signal light at the intersection.

But what I want you to understand is that when I&rsquo;m talking about
the spring and the signal light at the intersection, or the leaf, or the
glass-topped table, I am saying that you are seeing right there an Idea.
It never left Its Source. It isn&rsquo;t a manifestation of an Idea. It
is the Idea Itself directly experienced. It is pure Spirit.

Likewise, there could be a tendency to think when I spoke of the
arteries that had become misshapen so that they blocked the flow of
blood that it was important to recognize that the artery is pure Spirit
so that it wouldn&rsquo;t interfere with the blood that kept your
material body functioning. You see what I&rsquo;m saying? It&rsquo;s
easy to be selective still and to say, &ldquo;Okay, I&rsquo;m going to
see my arteries as Spirit, but at the same time think that this will
allow the blood in your body to circulate more freely, allowing for less
stress and therefore keeping your material body from dying.&rdquo; You
see what I&rsquo;m saying? The blood, the arteries, the veins, the
corpuscles, all of it is an Idea that never left Its Source and
therefore is an Idea still. And therefore is pure Spirit.

When you hear the word &ldquo;manifestation&rdquo; translate it into the
meaning visibility and tangibility or the experience of recognizability.
Manifestation is not something separate from the Idea. It is the Idea
recognized. Don&rsquo;t leave any part of your experience of the world
and universe outside of God by thinking that in any respect any part of
it is material and is influenceable by knowing the Truth or
influenceable by calling it Spirit. It is Spirit and nothing else.

Well, the thought can come up, &ldquo;Well, why would God create a
sprinkler head if grass is eternal? Why would it need to be watered?
That&rsquo;s a human idea, a human concept, and therefore in Reality
there couldn&rsquo;t be a sprinkler head. That has to be part of the
human dream.&rdquo; Well, I&rsquo;m telling you that you&rsquo;re
thinking too much. You don&rsquo;t know what it means yet.

And that&rsquo;s exactly why I&rsquo;m inviting you all to look at
everything with innocent eyes, with freshness and without your
pre-existing definitions.  You don&rsquo;t know just how infinitely and
wonderfully and uniquely and originally the Wholeness of Eternal Being
is manifest, is rendered visible, is rendered recognizable. So stop
making snap judgments or assumptions that say, &ldquo;Well, this
couldn&rsquo;t be part of Reality because blah, blah, blah, blah,
blah.&rdquo; And be willing to assume that the blah, blah, blah, blah,
blah that you follow the statement with, &ldquo;this couldn&rsquo;t be
part of the Kingdom of Heaven,&rdquo; is the means you utilize to keep
yourself locked into and limited by your love of giving definitions to
everything, your love of determining by yourself what this part or that
part or the other part of the Kingdom of Heaven is, and giving
preference to your definition over the Reality of it.

Now the second thing I want to comment on is that during the week, the
question was presented, &ldquo;How much of Reality spills over into our
dream or your dream of Reality?&rdquo; Again, this suggests a split that
isn&rsquo;t there, as though you&rsquo;re having some sort of autonomous
dream that is entirely different and separate from Reality, when the
fact is that your dream, every part of your dream is based in Reality.
Your dream is nothing more than an altered perception of Reality. It is
Reality perceived with a bias. You have not succeeded in going
someplace, like to sleep, and having a dream that is entirely separate
and apart from Reality.

What I am referring to as the dream is nothing more than a biased
perception of Reality. It&rsquo;s Reality you&rsquo;re seeing unclearly.
So Reality doesn&rsquo;t spill over into your dream. It&rsquo;s what
every single one of you is using as the basis for a biased, slanted,
distorted perception that you&rsquo;re claiming is real.

So, what does this mean? It means you don&rsquo;t have to wake up from
the dream before you can see Reality. Reality is what is in your face as
I&rsquo;ve said over and over. Reality is what is confronting you at
every instant, whether you call it a rose, or the glass-topped table, or
the fabric of your pants, or the hair on your head. Reality is what is
confronting you. How you are perceiving it, or misperceiving it, is what
constitutes the illusion, the dream.

And because that&rsquo;s so, you don&rsquo;t have to wake up before you
can see Reality. You can start with what&rsquo;s right in front of your
face and say, &ldquo;That&rsquo;s not matter. That&rsquo;s Spirit. That
isn&rsquo;t a manifestation of some act of Creation. That is an Idea
that God is having at this instant. And that Idea never left Its Source.
And therefore, aside from my current perceptions, misperceptions of what
it is, I choose to become undefended against experiencing this Idea that
never left Its Source and never became matter, and is pure Spirit, and
is embodying the Will of God, the Nature of God, the Love of God, at
this very instant. I choose no longer to defend myself against
experiencing that by having an opinion or a definition of my own.&rdquo;

The expression of that desire to Experience the Truth of that rose, or
whatever it might be, is the way you open up to God. It&rsquo;s the way
you turn toward the Altar. And it&rsquo;s the way you manage to let God
register with you and yield to Him.

Okay. Let&rsquo;s go into the book. Page 46.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*Judgment and the Authority Problem*[^1]

We have already discussed the Last Judgment, but in insufficient detail.
After the Last Judgment there will be no more.
</div> 

No more judgments. Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Judgment is symbolic because beyond perception there is no judgment.
When the Bible says &ldquo;Judge not that ye be not judged,&rdquo; it
means that if you judge the reality of others you will be unable to
avoid judging your own.
</div> 

It&rsquo;s a very simple fact the same measuring stick you use to judge
others, you judge yourself by absolutely. You do not have a different
measuring stick for yourself&mdash;a better one, a more lenient
one&mdash;than you have for others.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The choice to judge rather than to know is the cause of the loss of
peace.
</div> 

To know what? To Know the Truth, to have the direct Experience of What
The Father Is Being there where the rose is.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Judgment is the process on which perception but not knowledge rests. I
have discussed this before in terms of the selectivity of perception,
pointing out that evaluation is its obvious prerequisite. Judgment
always involves rejection. It never emphasizes only the positive aspects
of what is judged, whether in you or in others. What has been perceived
and rejected, or judged and found wanting, remains in your mind because
it has been perceived. One of the illusions from which you suffer is the
belief that what you judged against has no effect. This cannot be true
unless you also believe that what you judged against does not exist. You
evidently do not believe this, or you would not have judged against it.
In the end it does not matter whether your judgment is right or wrong.
Either way you are placing your belief in the unreal. This cannot be
avoided in any type of judgment, because it implies the belief that
reality is yours to select from.
</div> 

Indeed. The minute you look at that rose or the minute you look at the
spring in the sprinkler head and you determine that it&rsquo;s matter,
you determine that it has had its source in a material evolution or a
mechanical process of manufacture and you make commitment to that idea,
that belief, you&rsquo;re choosing for the unreal. You&rsquo;re
anchoring the unreal. And you are creating a temporary inability on your
part in your mind to perceive What It Really Is.

Now, when you say that the rose is alive and the spring in the sprinkler
head is not, and that therefore the rose is a more valuable material
object, you&rsquo;ve made a judgment. If you say that the white rose to
you is more beautiful than the red rose, you&rsquo;ve made a judgment.
But you know what? No matter how many judgments you make between objects
in this so-called material world, it&rsquo;s meaningless because you
haven&rsquo;t made the one distinction that is essential to your
salvation. And that distinction is not between objects, but it is the
distinction in your mind that you have made that says, &ldquo;What I
have determined a thing to be is what it is. And I choose to value it,
rather than the other choice that I have available to me which is to
inquire What It Really Is as God Is Being It.&rdquo;

The moment you provide a definition for any thing, an explanation, an
understanding of it that wasn&rsquo;t derived from Its Source which is
God, you have made a distinction and a judgment, a value judgment, and
that judgment has separated you from the Experience of Reality.
That&rsquo;s the only distinction that needs to be made because that
distinction is the one which will allow you to make the choice for
Reality and get out of the bondage of the mutually-agreed-upon
definitions that constituted your choice to be able to apparently be an
authorizer in your own right.

Let&rsquo;s continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have no idea of the tremendous release and deep peace that comes
from meeting yourself and your brothers totally without judgment. When
you recognize what you are and what your brothers are, you will realize
that judging them in any way is without meaning. In fact, their meaning
is lost to you precisely because you are judging them.
</div> 

And I would use a capital &ldquo;M&rdquo; there for Meaning. In fact,
their capital &ldquo;M&rdquo; Meaning, their Divine Meaning, their Real
Meaning, is lost to you precisely because you are judging them.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
All uncertainty comes from the belief that you are under the coercion of
judgment. You do not need judgment to organize your life, and you
certainly do not need it to organize yourself. In the presence of
knowledge all judgment is automatically suspended, and this is the
process that enables recognition to replace perception.
</div> 

Yes, it does. It also deprives you of the hit that you get from thinking
that you can be the originator of an idea, the originator of a
meaningful definition. It deflates the ego. [pause] It deflates the ego.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Raj, can I make a comment or two? [^2]
</div> 

Not yet.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You are very fearful of everything you have perceived but have refused
to accept. You believe that, because you have refused to accept it, you
have lost control over it. This is why you see it in nightmares, or in
pleasant disguises in what seem to be your happier dreams. Nothing that
you have refused to accept can be brought into awareness. It is not
dangerous in itself, but you have made it seem dangerous to you.
</div> 

Yes. Nothing that you have refused to accept can be brought into
awareness. Your decisions, your use of your mind is absolute. So, what
you have refused to accept, you will not experience.

Now, you could say there are lots of things you have refused to accept.
And psychology helps you go on an internal search to find out what those
things are that you have refused to accept so that you can embrace them.
But that&rsquo;s like going through all of your definitions,
mutually-agreed-upon definitions of things, like roses are more valuable
than the spring in the sprinkler head, and helping you to stop making
the judgment, help you to somehow re-embrace the spring in the sprinkler
head as much as you do the rose.

But you know what? If you manage to do that and you go on this internal
hunt for all of the things you have refused to look at, and you manage
to re-embrace them all without making judgments one over the other, you
still haven&rsquo;t addressed the one fundamental thing that
you&rsquo;ve rejected, which was that all of this, all of these things
about which you have mutually-agreed-upon definitions, are the
visibility and tangibility of God. You have rejected the God-ness of
them. And so, no matter how much you work at reducing the judgments you
have for or against the various things about which you have made-up
definitions that you are committed to, you still haven&rsquo;t done
anything valuable.

The one thing, you might say the cornerstone that the builders rejected,
the builders of mutually-agreed-upon definitions, is that All Is God,
that All Is Spirit. And that includes you, and your Function is to be
that consciousness which recognizes God in everything you see. Your
Function is to be that which glorifies God by recognizing the Divinity
of absolutely everyone and everything, including yourself. So when you
reject the cornerstone, when you make the one simple rejection of the
God-ness of everything and then look at everything minus God and give
your definitions to it all, no matter how many definitions you&rsquo;ve
given to it and no matter how much work you do to bring your assessment
of all those things you&rsquo;ve defined into perfect balance and into
perfect equilibrium where you love and appreciate them all equally, you
are still flat out in the dream. You are still flat out unconscious of
the God-ness of it. You haven&rsquo;t brought God back into the picture.
And yet, as I said earlier, you are using All That God Is as the basis
for creating the definitions you want to give to All That God Is. So
you&rsquo;re using Reality to your own ends, while ignoring what Reality
is and where you fit into it. And rather than witnessing to God, you are
choosing to witness to definitions you have given to everything.

In other words, you are trying to enjoy a position of authorship that
was never given to you, and therefore you can&rsquo;t have, even though
you can imagine you have it and make commitment to that imagination and
thereby create a belief that you believe.

When the word &ldquo;belief&rdquo; is used, it&rsquo;s not a very strong
word. When you hear of a person&rsquo;s beliefs, you recognize
immediately by the choice of words that they are not anchored in
anything eternal, because beliefs change. But when you say, &ldquo;I
believe this,&rdquo; you give more substance to it in your mind. And
what you believe becomes important and you want everyone else to honor
what you believe. In fact, you want everyone else to believe what you
believe so that you can feel as though your belief really is meaningful.

Nothing that you have refused to accept, including the Allness Of God
and the God-ness Of All, can be brought into your awareness. Your
refusal is absolute and will govern your perception until you modify
your refusal.

What you have refused to accept is not dangerous in itself. God is not
dangerous. Reality is not dangerous. The Divinity of Everything is not
dangerous. The Substance of Love that Everything is constituted of is a
Love that embraces you and that you can feel loved by. That is not
dangerous. But you have made It seem dangerous to you. And you&rsquo;ve
made It seem dangerous to you because if you embrace It, It will take
away this supposed authority that you think you have which is the basis
you use for self-respect. And so you&rsquo;ve made yielding to the way
things really are a threat to your respectability, to your credibility,
to everything that&rsquo;s important to you. You see?

That&rsquo;s how you&rsquo;ve made God a fearful thing and Reality a
fearful thing.  You think you derive energy for existing from being a
clever, ingenious, creative presence creating out of the Stuff Of God
what you would have the Stuff Of God be defined as. And this you will
lose if you yield to God, if you dare to really want to see the Divinity
of the rose, the capital &ldquo;M&rdquo; Meaning, the Divine Meaning
that God is embodying there, or of the spring in the sprinkler head.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you feel tired, it is because you have judged yourself as capable
of being tired.
</div> 

Oh, and of course, the only thing &hellip; Spirit can&rsquo;t be tired,
so if you&rsquo;re tired that means that you&rsquo;re a hunk of matter.
Only matter can wear down. Only matter can wear out. Only matter can
become exhausted.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you laugh at someone, it is because you have judged him as
unworthy. When you laugh at yourself you must laugh at others, if only
because you cannot tolerate the idea of being more unworthy than they
are. All this makes you feel tired because it is essentially
disheartening.
</div> 

And part of this tiredness accumulates through the years, and you begin
when you&rsquo;re 40 to be more tired than you were at 20. And at 50,
more tired. And at 60, Ohhh. And why? Because what&rsquo;s really
happened is that in your commitment to your mutually-agreed-upon
God-less definitions, you have disheartened yourself. You have
disheartened yourself. And when you become disheartened, less and less
feels worthwhile to engage in.  And so, without challenging it, you
acquiesce to the disheartening and you slowly give up.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You are not really capable of being tired, but you are very capable of
wearying yourself. The strain of constant judgment is virtually
intolerable.
</div> 

I&rsquo;m going to interrupt there. &ldquo;Virtually intolerable&rdquo;
has new meaning this day in terms of &ldquo;virtual reality.&rdquo;
It&rsquo;s a virtual intolerance. It&rsquo;s not real. It becomes
virtually intolerable. The strain of constant judgment is virtually
intolerable, just as all of Creation that you&rsquo;re looking at and
calling matter is virtually unreal.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is curious that an ability so debilitating would be so deeply
cherished. Yet if you wish to be the author of reality&hellip;
</div> 

Oh, there it is. If you wish to be the author of reality. You might have
thought that judgment and the authority problem would have something to
do with, you know, your mother, or your husband, or your wife, or your
father, or your boss, exerting authority over you and the authority
problem you&rsquo;re running into as a result of the contest of wills
between human beings. But the authority problem is what I&rsquo;ve
talked about before as the original sin, the origin-al sin, the false
belief about one&rsquo;s origin. The original sin is not the first sin.
It is the sin, the belief, the misperception of your origin. It&rsquo;s
the origin-al sin. It&rsquo;s the origin-al false belief. And the
authority problem is that problem.  When you think that God is not the
origin of you, but that you are the origin of yourself and you&rsquo;re
a self-made man, and when you have your mutually-agreed-upon definitions
and you all agree that the universe came from a big bang and had nothing
to do with God and is not spiritual, you are asserting an authority that
has its basis in a misunderstanding about your origin. So the authority
problem and the origin-al misunderstanding are one and the same thing.

So we&rsquo;re not going to find out how to win in a contest of wills
here and learn how to express authority well so that it blesses
everyone. We&rsquo;re talking about challenging the wish to be the
author of reality yourself, so that in the willingness to abandon the
wish to be the author, you can turn toward the Author, with a capital
&ldquo;A,&rdquo; and say, &ldquo;I want to Know the Truth about All That
Is, including me.&rdquo;

Continue. Start that sentence over.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet if you wish to be the author of reality, you will insist on holding
on to judgment.
</div> 

It&rsquo;s the only way that you can continue to seem to be an author,
an ego, a separate entity.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You will also regard judgment with fear, believing that it will someday
be used against you.
</div> 

Oh, and it&rsquo;s more than a belief. It&rsquo;s a confidence. You know
that someday it will be used against you. You know that some day
authority, someone else&rsquo;s authority, something else&rsquo;s
authority will supersede yours. You are absolutely confident about it.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This belief can exist only to the extent that you believe in the
efficacy of judgment as a weapon of defense for your own authority.
</div> 

You see? Absolutely. The marvelously wonderfully insulting Truth is that
you don&rsquo;t have any authority. You don&rsquo;t need any authority,
because it&rsquo;s not your function to have authority. It&rsquo;s your
Function to be that which recognizes the Authority Of God in the
Movement of Being that constitutes Creation as the same Mind that is God
recognizing Himself in the Movement of Creation as the Source and
Condition and Visibility and Tangibility of Creation. It&rsquo;s your
Function to let God&rsquo;s Mind be in you so that you have no other
consciousness of anything than that which God is having of His Infinite
Being.

When God sees what He has made and recognizes Himself in it, He&rsquo;s
glorifying Himself, and that Conscious Experience is the definition of
Sanity. And that Experience is your Function. It&rsquo;s your
Birthright. It&rsquo;s you in your Right Mind, not as a private little
separate part having its own mind that can be in its right mind.
It&rsquo;s you letting the Mind Of God be, I will say, in your mind so
that your puny little mind takes on its full stature, its Sanity, and
you become God recognizing Himself in the Movement of Creation.

I know you cannot conceive of what I&rsquo;m saying without interpreting
what I&rsquo;ve said as you being swallowed up in some kind of
Infiniteness in which there is no sense of identity, and that is not
what I am saying, and that is not what the experience is. Because I will
tell you this.  When that experience is allowed by you and your mind is
transformed, you will still relate to each other as well as all of the
Brotherhood, and you will relate to each other with more beauty, and
more harmony, and more kindness, and more thoughtfulness, and more
involvement. And every aspect of your involvement with each other, with
your world, with the universe, will be something that you cherish
because it is so rich and so full of Meaning.

Let&rsquo;s continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God offers only mercy. Your words should reflect only mercy, because
that is what you have received and that is what you should give. Justice
is a temporary expedient, or an attempt to teach you the meaning of
mercy. It is judgmental only because you are capable of injustice.
</div> 

God offers only mercy, the unending opportunity for you to realize that
all that you are attempting to do and think that you are succeeding in
doing that has arisen from a loveless foundation, you haven&rsquo;t
done. And therefore, there is no call for judgment on you. And you are
not guilty for what you could not actually accomplish. You cannot even
be judged for trying to do the impossible.

You are still the Son and Daughter of God. You are still the full, whole
Expression of the Father that He has never stopped expressing. If you
can&rsquo;t become less than that even if you believe you have,
there&rsquo;s no recourse for the Father except to say,
&ldquo;&rsquo;Tain&rsquo;t so. It&rsquo;s okay, Child.
&rsquo;Tain&rsquo;t so.&rdquo; And to Love you so that you might not
judge yourself and detain yourself from coming Home again, from
re-embracing what you have judged as frightening or threatening, meaning
the Divinity of You, the God-ness of You.

So God offers only mercy. God offers only the Love that reveals to you
that no matter what you think you&rsquo;ve done, you have done nothing
wrong.  You haven&rsquo;t succeeded at creating a lie. You haven&rsquo;t
succeeded at actually manifesting an illusion. To have caused yourself
to experience a misperception is not a sin. And misperceptions can be
replaced with Truth easily.

Now God offers you &hellip; God offers only mercy. Your words should
reflect only mercy because that is what you have received. And that is
what you should give. And you will experience this mercy if you will
turn toward the Father and say, &ldquo;Thy Will, not mine be done. I may
not be able to abandon my willfulness completely in this instant, but I
do, Father, want to experience more and more of What You&rsquo;re Being
right where that rose is. What You&rsquo;re Being right where that
spring in the sprinkler head is. What You&rsquo;re Being right where my
obstinate boss is.  What You&rsquo;re Being right where my sick cat is
being.&rdquo; You see? And when you do that, you will be answered and
you will feel the mercy of it and you will feel loved. And it will be
easy for you to extend it. And that&rsquo;s the beginning of the end of
independence, of private authority, and it&rsquo;s the beginning of
awakening.

Justice is a temporary expedient, or an attempt, to teach you the
meaning of mercy. God&rsquo;s Love saying to you that the loveless thing
you&rsquo;re attempting to do, you can&rsquo;t succeed at doing because
you don&rsquo;t have that capacity. It was never given to you. Can seem
to you to be a deprivation that authority that you ought to have is
being taken away from you. And this Act of Love, because you&rsquo;re in
a judgmental state of mind, will be seen as judgmental, as something
against you. But the only reason it will seem to be judgment is because
you have opted to operate from within a framework where judgment is
essential.

In order for you as a group of people to have mutually-agreed-upon
definitions, judgments have had to have been used. That&rsquo;s the way
you come upon definitions. And that&rsquo;s the way you come upon
agreements. And so, when you&rsquo;re in that mutually-agreed-upon state
of mind, you are expressing a capability to be unjust. When Love comes
along and says, &ldquo;You&rsquo;re not doing anything at all.
You&rsquo;re not succeeding at doing anything loveless. You don&rsquo;t
have any authority to act lovelessly. The concept of yourself, the
definition of yourself that says &lsquo;you are a creator on your
own&rsquo; is false.&rdquo;, you say, &ldquo;Oh! You&rsquo;re going to
take away my identity? You&rsquo;re going to take away my authority? Why
are you against me? Why do you want to undermine my respectability, my
dignity, my very being?&rdquo;

And the Father says, &ldquo;Because that isn&rsquo;t your Being. I am
your Being.  You and I are One. And in that Oneness, you are Infinite.
And in that Oneness, you are unending Love. And in that Oneness, the
Glory Of All That Exists dawns upon you as the Glory of the Infinitude
of your Being inseparable from Me. And I cannot agree with you when you
say that this authority that you think you have is real. And I cannot
agree with you when you say that if I take that away from you, you will
be less than whole. Because when you let go of it, you will be Whole
beyond conception. You will Be And Experience Wholeness beyond your most
ingenious, imaginative definition.&rdquo;

Yes. Michael.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So the idea here is to lay judgment aside. And that becomes a process in
that, for instance, I&rsquo;m looking at the roses and I say, &ldquo;Oh,
that&rsquo;s a beautiful rose.&rdquo; Or I may even say, &ldquo;Oh, look
at the roses. I like the white ones better than the red
ones.&rdquo; Where the alternative would be to say something like,
&ldquo;Oh, what a beautiful rose. Father, how do You see this
rose?&rdquo;

And what I&rsquo;m getting at is there&rsquo;s two things. One is the
process just looking at things and saying, &ldquo;Father, how do You see
this? Father, how do You see this? Father, how do You see this?&rdquo;
And the other thing that comes to mind is I&rsquo;ll see something and
automatically it&rsquo;s judged. It&rsquo;s like &hellip; I mean I
realize that I&rsquo;m doing it but it&rsquo;s so habitual that I make
the judgment before I can even say, &ldquo;Father, how do You see
this?&rdquo;
</div> 

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So there&rsquo;s two things. One is how do you live your life in the
process of putting judgment aside on a minute-by-minute,
second-by-second basis?  And the second thing is when you see yourself,
when you recognize that there&rsquo;s nothing that you don&rsquo;t judge
all the time, do you just let that be and then the judgment comes in and
reminds you to say, &ldquo;Father, how are You seeing this?&rdquo; 
What&rsquo;s the process?
</div> 

It&rsquo;s really not divided into two things. The fact is that unless
you see something you haven&rsquo;t seen before when you see a thing,
there is judgment, at least to the extent that you think you know what
that thing is and have stopped looking at it with fresh eyes. So,
that&rsquo;s the given.  That&rsquo;s the fundamental that you have to
work with.

Now, as a result of our communion, you know that you have an option and
you can ask, &ldquo;What is the Meaning of this? I realize that I
probably don&rsquo;t grasp the Reality of what I&rsquo;m looking at.
Father, I&rsquo;m curious now.  I&rsquo;m not fully committed to the
judgment/definition I have placed upon this part of Creation.&rdquo; And
you just do it more and more and more frequently, because when you
realize that you&rsquo;re insane, you then know that you have another
choice which is Sanity. And you want to be Sane.  So, you choose for
Sanity more and more and more consistently.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And then right here, it said when it talked about justice, it said that,
&ldquo;Justice is a temporary expedient, or an attempt to teach you the
meaning of mercy.&rdquo; I&rsquo;m not sure what person that&rsquo;s
&hellip; Is that what we do or is that what the Real Meaning Of Justice
is?
</div> 

That&rsquo;s the Real Meaning Of Justice.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So there is like Truth, Beauty, there is a Justice with a capital
&ldquo;J.&rdquo; There&rsquo;s a Justice, a Justice in the real sense.
</div> 

There is indeed. There is Divine Harmony which could be called Divine
Law and Order. There is the Way Things Work, with a capital
&ldquo;W.&rdquo; The capital &ldquo;W&rdquo; Way Things Work which is
just another way of saying there is a Way God Be&rsquo;s All That Is.
And when one chooses to behave in a loveless way by acting independent
of the Father, one runs into the dissonance of the way they&rsquo;re
choosing to behave which is the way things don&rsquo;t work, and the
capital &ldquo;W&rdquo; Way Things Work.

And always when the capital &ldquo;W&rdquo; Way Things Work dominates,
it is obvious that the result is Just because it blesses everyone. And
so, in that sense, there is Justice. Yes. This Justice uncovers to you
the Fact that the mistake you were making was not judgable. And
therefore, there&rsquo;s no penalty because you couldn&rsquo;t actually
succeed at doing what you thought you were doing. Therefore Justice
becomes recognizable as the Father&rsquo;s Expression Of Mercy, not
judgment. Justice uncovers the correction of your mind as an Expression
Of Mercy, rather than an expression of judgment. That&rsquo;s very
important.

Okay. Let us continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I have spoken of different symptoms, and at that level there is almost
endless variation. There is, however, only one cause for all of them:
the authority problem. This is &ldquo;the root of all evil.&rdquo;
</div> 

The original sin. Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Every symptom the ego makes involves a contradiction in terms, because
the mind is split between the ego and the Holy Spirit, so that whatever
the ego makes is incomplete and contradictory. This untenable position
is the result of the authority problem which, because it accepts the one
inconceivable thought as its premise, can produce only ideas that are
inconceivable.
</div> 

Yes. And the one inconceivable thought is, &ldquo;I&rsquo;d rather do it
myself. I&rsquo;d rather see it my way.&rdquo; Such a thing is
impossible. And therefore beyond conception, inconceivable. &ldquo;I
would like to look at things without You, God.&rdquo; [laughing]
Impossible. Inconceivable.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The issue of authority is really a question of authorship. When you have
an authority problem, it is always because you believe you are the
author of yourself and project your delusion onto others. You then
perceive the situation as one in which others are literally fighting you
for your authorship.
</div> 

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is the fundamental error of all those who believe they have usurped
the power of God.
</div> 

Which itself is the one inconceivable thought and the one thing that can
be corrected.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This belief is very frightening to them, but hardly troubles God. He is,
however, eager to undo it&hellip;
</div> 

In a merciful fashion by uncovering your mistake and showing you that
your mistake never succeeded at having any effect whatsoever, and that
therefore you were&mdash;and still are&mdash;utterly innocent as His
Perfect Self-Expression.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He is, however, eager to undo it, not to punish His children, but only
because He knows that it makes them unhappy. God's creations are given
their true Authorship, but you prefer to be anonymous when you choose to
separate yourself from your Author.
</div> 

Interesting thought, isn&rsquo;t it? That when you choose to stand on
your own, you become anonymous.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
No name?
</div> 

No name. No Presence. No real Presence of your own. You become, you
might say, invisible, a non-entity.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Being uncertain of your true Authorship, you believe that your creation
was anonymous. This leaves you in a position where it sounds meaningful
to believe that you created yourself. The dispute over authorship has
left such uncertainty in your mind that it may even doubt whether you
really exist at all.
</div> 

And most of you have at one point or another questioned your own
existence. That is sad. That is really sad. Because the one thing that
is absolutely certain in all this Universe is that you exist.
That&rsquo;s the one fundamental, unalterable Fact. And for you to
arrive at a point where you might actually doubt your existence is such
an extreme, such an extremely polarized state at the opposite end of the
spectrum of Reality, that for you to be feeling that is sad. Sad because
it&rsquo;s a useless and meaningless experience that you have fooled
yourself into believing is real.

And to suffer that impossible experience brings out all of the
compassion of the Brotherhood in support of your finding that feeling
dissolving rapidly so that you become free of it. You have no idea, all
of you who have had that experience, you have no idea the extent to
which and the infinite amount, if I may put it that way, of compassion
and support is extended to you. Great illumination embraces you. But, of
course, you will not see what you have chosen not to see. And so, you do
not always feel this compassionate, loving embrace. But it is there and
it does slowly penetrate. And it does slowly lift you out of it to a
point where you are willing to abandon some of your commitment to the
awfulness of your current sense of yourself and then your upliftment can
happen much more rapidly.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Only those who give over all desire to reject can know that their own
rejection is impossible. You have not usurped the power of God, but you
have lost it.
</div> 

And you think you have usurped the Power of God.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Fortunately, to lose something does not mean that it has gone. It merely
means that you do not remember where it is.
</div> 

Isn&rsquo;t that wonderful? A simple clarity. Fortunately, to lose
something does not mean that it has gone. It merely means that you do
not remember where it is. In that realization, it&rsquo;s easy to bring
your curiosity into play and not get stuck in the lostness of it.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Its existence does not depend on your ability to identify it, or even to
place it.
</div> 

Remember that &ldquo;it&rdquo; is referring to the Power of God.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is possible to look on reality without judgment and merely know that
it is there.
</div> 

It is possible. It is possible. It is possible to look on Reality
without judgment. It really is.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Peace is a natural heritage of spirit. Everyone is free to refuse to
accept his inheritance, but he is not free to establish what his
inheritance is.
</div> 

Ah! So, you all have an inheritance. Wouldn&rsquo;t you love to know
what it is? You&rsquo;re not free to choose what it is, but there is
one. There&rsquo;s a Birthright that is here for you.

And all of your personal, private, prized authority blocks you from
experiencing it. And all I&rsquo;m doing is trying to inspire you to
become curious about what your Birthright is so that you will value
opening up to It more than holding on to your mutually-agreed-upon
definitions, your sense of personal authority.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The problem everyone must decide is the fundamental question of
authorship.
</div> 

The one and only question really.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
All fear comes ultimately, and sometimes by way of very devious routes,
from the denial of Authorship.
</div> 

All fear, all fear no matter what it is, comes ultimately from the
denial of Authorship, God&rsquo;s Authorship.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The offense is never to God, but only to those who deny Him. To deny His
Authorship is to deny yourself the reason for your peace, so that you
see yourself only in segments. This strange perception is the authority
problem.
</div> 

This strange perception is the Authority Problem. That&rsquo;s all there
is to the Authority Problem: a strange perception, a biased perception,
an altered perception. Again, an altered perception of the only thing
there is, period. Don&rsquo;t pride yourself in some capacity you think
you have to alter or bias or twist the experience of Reality and call it
names you choose to call it, and create ways to be within those
definitions that give you a sense of authority independent of God.
Don&rsquo;t pride yourself on this.

That&rsquo;s not what your mind is for and that&rsquo;s not your
mind&rsquo;s Function and no matter how real you think the results of
doing it are, they are not real. And your commitment to their reality
constitutes a form of insanity. Is it not interesting that you&rsquo;ve
never heard of terminal insanity? Insanity can never come to an end
result. It&rsquo;s more like &hellip; I&rsquo;m going to put it this
way. It&rsquo;s more like what the world looks like when you are looking
at it while having a really constipated bowel movement. It takes more
effort than you can imagine to be so unnatural as to create a
misperception of Reality.

Paul wondered whether I really wanted to say that and I really did.

When you look at a baby having a really difficult B-M and his face turns
red and his eyes squinch up, can you imagine what his world looks like
to him at that moment? When you are going to the effort to try to be
something that you cannot be, it&rsquo;s a strain. It&rsquo;s hard work
to do the impossible, and while you&rsquo;re doing it and looking at
everything, looking at the Kingdom of Heaven through the strain of it,
you see it in what your ego calls fresh, new ways, but
there&rsquo;s no pleasure in it.  There is no Love in it. There&rsquo;s
no Peace in it. And to forever be in the middle of the experience of a
constipated bowel movement is not something for you to work at becoming
comfortable with. It&rsquo;s something to let go of. It&rsquo;s
something to abandon.

We are not going to read the last paragraph today. I want to leave it
today just exactly where we&rsquo;ve left it so that you might be with
it.

I thank you very much and I look forward to being with all of you next
week.

[^1]: T3.VI Judgement and the Authority Problem
[^2]: Students commenting or asking a question.

