---
title: Jun 22, 2003
ref: T3.VI Judgement and the Authority Problem
---

Good afternoon. And welcome everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
internet.  We will go right into the Text without delay.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is no one who does not feel that he is imprisoned in some way. If
this is the result of his own free will he must regard his will as not
free, or the circular reasoning in this position would be quite
apparent. Free will must lead to freedom. Judgment always imprisons
because it separates segments of reality by the unstable scales of
desire. Wishes are not facts. To wish is to imply that willing is not
sufficient. Yet no one in his right mind believes that what is wished is
as real as what is willed. Instead of &ldquo;Seek ye first the Kingdom
of Heaven&rdquo; say, &ldquo;Will ye first the Kingdom of Heaven,&rdquo;
and you have said, &ldquo;I know what I am and I accept my own
inheritance.&rdquo;[^1]
</div> 

A strong series of statements. To see the Truth of them, each one of you
must dare to be honest with yourselves, else you will be inclined to
say, &ldquo;Oh, I don&rsquo;t feel imprisoned.&rdquo;

The limits you are all experiencing are the result of free will being
expressed; the free will to give your own definitions to everything
without getting their Meaning from That Which Created them in the first
place in order for you to have something to make up a definition about.

You know what you&rsquo;re doing when you turn within and you say,
&ldquo;I&rsquo;m willing. I&rsquo;m willing to consider the possibility
that the way I&rsquo;m seeing everything is flawed. That what I think
things are may not be what they are.&rdquo; And you ask to have an
experience of the Real Meaning of each thing that goes beyond your
current experience of it, what you&rsquo;re doing is you&rsquo;re
saying: &ldquo;Father, I want Your Vision. I want the Will that You are
expressing right where this thing is to be established in me as my
conscious experience and override and eliminate my current definitions,
my current perceptions.&rdquo; And at the bottom line what you&rsquo;re
saying is: &ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;m asking for the Will You are
expressing to render null and void and nonexistent any personal will I
thought I had.&rdquo;

Now the only problem is that you associate your existence and your
identity with your will. And so if you ask for your will to be replaced
by the Father&rsquo;s Will, you think that you are asking for your very
identity to be obliterated. And you must understand that that is not
true. That is not what the result of your request will be. The result of
your request will be that you will no longer experience being imprisoned
because you will have abandoned, you will have let your personal private
sense of will be deleted, if you will, from your experience and that is
the very thing which has caused you to experience limitations or
imprisonment.

As long as you are exercising willfulness by determining what a thing is
to be in your own mind, you are depriving yourself of being inseparable
from, at one with, the Movement of capital &ldquo;B&rdquo; Being, which
is the Father Willing, Creating anew, Being All That Is new.

You will not be swallowed up in anything. Rather you will find yourself,
as it were, standing where the fountain pours forth into expression and
you will experience yourself Be-ing the Place where it pours forth
through, which is what the Father experiences.

&ldquo;Thy Will be done,&rdquo; is a request for you to no longer be
subject to distorted perceptions of Reality or the Movement of Creation
Itself. And so, ultimately, it doesn&rsquo;t constitute a loss of
identity at all. It constitutes a coming back into what your true Real
Identity is.

Instead of &ldquo;Seek ye first the Kingdom of Heaven,&rdquo; say,
&ldquo;Will ye first the Kingdom of Heaven.&rdquo; And who are you
saying it to? Yourself? No. What that means is you&rsquo;re returning
authority to the only place where Authorship is. You&rsquo;re saying:
&ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;m abandoning my so-called position of authority
and all of my attempts to create the meaning of everything. And I yield
to what you will. Will Ye first the Kingdom of Heaven and I&rsquo;ll
stop willing the world and universe, the distorted perception of the
Kingdom of Heaven.&rdquo; And when you say that, you have said, in
effect: &ldquo;Now I know what I am. I am all You are Be-ing right here
where I am, Father. And I&rsquo;ve returned the Authority to You, so
that I might let this mask of personhood that I&rsquo;ve been creating
and maintaining slip from me so that I might see You right here where I
am.  And in returning Authorship to the only Authorship, the only Author
there is, I realize that I am putting myself in a position of accepting
my inheritance.&rdquo;

You see, you exist only for the purpose of standing in receipt of your
inheritance. You don&rsquo;t have a private personal purpose of creating
an inheritance for your offspring, or for creating your own good or your
own wealth. Your function is to forever stand in receipt of your
inheritance which comes from the Father. And when you accept that
inheritance, when you stand in receipt because you&rsquo;ve abandoned
any sense of personal private authorship of your own, it isn&rsquo;t
that you still stand separate in receipt of All That Is. What happens is
there is a shift of conscious experience in which you find yourself at
one with, and inseparable from, the emergence of All That Is. And your
inheritance isn&rsquo;t something you stand in receipt of. It is what
constitutes You in Your Totality. It is an experience, a new experience,
of Identity far superior than the identity you thought you created for
yourself by being an independent author willing things to be what you
said they were, rather than what God was Being. This is very important.

There is no one who does not feel that he is imprisoned in some way.
That&rsquo;s nothing to feel bad about. It simply means there&rsquo;s a
whole lot you don&rsquo;t know yet. It means there&rsquo;s a whole lot
available to you. And so rather than making you feel bad, it should
inspire you to be inquisitive, but to be inquisitive of God.

Before we go on to the next section, I will ask if there is anyone who
has a question.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
If I remember correctly, Raj, this is the first time we&rsquo;ve come up
against the word &ldquo;wish.&rdquo; And so could you give us the
difference between &ldquo;wishing&rdquo; and &ldquo;willing&rdquo;?
&ldquo;Willing&rdquo; seems like a passive thing, and
&ldquo;wishing&rdquo; is a more active thing, is that more active thing
of the mind?
</div> 

&ldquo;Wishing&rdquo; is to want to have something you don&rsquo;t have.
&ldquo;Wishing&rdquo; is brought into play for the purpose of having
things be different than they unalterably are. &ldquo;Wishing&rdquo; is
an expression of dissatisfaction.

In your sense of separation, you wish for everything to not be what God
is being it as (and I&rsquo;m aware that&rsquo;s not good English)
because you want the right to define it yourself. And then you bring
willfulness into play. You bring will into play to force yourself to
believe the definition and to get everyone else to believe the
definition with you, so the group consensus confirms it and seems to
make it more real.

When it says, &ldquo;to wish is to imply that willing is not
sufficient,&rdquo; does not mean the same thing as to wish is to imply
that will is not sufficient. To wish is to imply that willingness to
yield to the Authorship of God is not sufficient. I wish it to be more
or different, and I will for it to be different.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So whenever we&rsquo;re not surrendering to the Will of God, we are
wishing.
</div> 

You sure are. You sure are. And you&rsquo;re also wishing for the hit of
the experience of authority which isn&rsquo;t available to you on your
own.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So, most people when they talking about manifesting, the ability to be
able to manifest, they&rsquo;re talking about having their wishes
fulfilled.
</div> 

That is true. And then they use their spiritual or metaphysical thought
processes to supposedly will that thing into manifestation.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Like the power of positive thinking, that kind of thing.
</div> 

Exactly. Prayer is not a wish and it&rsquo;s not a will. It&rsquo;s not
an expression of will. Prayer is &ldquo;Father, Thy Will be done, not
mine.&rdquo;

You cannot comprehend the Fullness of fulfillment that you will
experience when you abandon this so-called authority you think you have
to manifest success and let in the Fullness of what the Father is Being
as You. But I ask all of you to be curious to have the experience.

Okay, let&rsquo;s continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Thank you.
</div> 

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*Creating versus the Self-Image*

Every system of thought must have a starting point. It begins with
either a making or a creating, a difference we have already discussed.
Their resemblance lies in their power as foundations. Their difference
lies in what rests upon them. Both are cornerstones for systems of
belief by which one lives. It is a mistake to believe that a thought
system based on lies is weak. Nothing made by a child of God is without
power. It is essential to realize this, because otherwise you will be
unable to escape from the prison you have made.
</div> 

And as I&rsquo;ve brought out before, you can&rsquo;t stop being the
Sons or Daughters of God, therefore you are using the Substantiality,
the Divine Substantiality of What You Are to create for yourselves
misperceptions. You haven&rsquo;t lost your Divine status and become
something different called a mortal, a human being, who has been born
into a material universe for the purpose of refining your soul until you,
until you get smart enough not to do it again.

You are the absolute and only Divine One that you will ever be, behaving
as though you aren&rsquo;t that Divine Being and believing your
behavior. It&rsquo;s because this is the fact that you can escape from
your imprisonment. And you can escape from it as quickly as you change
your mind. It&rsquo;s not any more complicated than that.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You cannot resolve the authority problem by depreciating the power of
your mind. To do so is to deceive yourself, and this will hurt you
because you really understand the strength of the mind. You also realize
that you cannot weaken it, any more than you can weaken God. The
&ldquo;devil&rdquo; is a frightening concept because he seems to be
extremely powerful and extremely active. He is perceived &hellip;
</div> 

And that&rsquo;s the key word: He is perceived.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He is perceived as a force in combat with God, battling Him for
possession of His creations. The devil deceives by lies, and builds
kingdoms in which everything is in direct opposition to God. Yet he
attracts men rather than repels them, and they are willing to
&ldquo;sell&rdquo; him their souls in return for gifts of no real worth.
This makes absolutely no sense.
</div> 

Now I want to point out that this devil that of course is out there, it&rsquo;s
something separate from you, different from you, but it&rsquo;s out to
get you, is simply a projection of what all of you are already engaged
in. You are the devil, if you will. You are the Christ behaving as
though you&rsquo;re not the Christ and believing your behavior. And
everything you are engaged in is in opposition to Reality because
you&rsquo;re enjoying the hit of defining everything yourself. So
that&rsquo;s all there is to the devil. It isn&rsquo;t a powerful force.
It&rsquo;s just a misuse of your mind.

It seems to entice you and it seems to cause you to be willing to
abandon God, abandon your Soul, abandon your Self, in favor of the
concept of yourself that you&rsquo;ve created and the imagined
satisfaction of developing this self&rsquo;s authority through willfulness to
the point where it has power of its own. And yet this is all just an
unrealistic imagining in your mind.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
We have discussed the fall or separation before, but its meaning must be
clearly understood. The separation is a system of thought real enough in
time, though not in eternity.
</div> 

Let me interrupt you. The separation is a system of thought.
That&rsquo;s all. It&rsquo;s a system of thought. It&rsquo;s a way of
thinking about things. It&rsquo;s not an event. It&rsquo;s not even a
result. The separation occurred and now you&rsquo;re separate from God.
Hopefully with some sort of gold tether but separate from God. No! All
there is to the separation is the way of thinking that you have adopted
in order to perceive things the way you want to perceive them.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
All beliefs are real to the believer. The fruit of only one tree was
&ldquo;forbidden&rdquo; in the symbolic garden. But God could not have
forbidden it, or it could not have been eaten. If God knows His
children, and I assure you that He does, would He have put them in a
position where their own destruction was possible? The &ldquo;forbidden
tree&rdquo; was named the &ldquo;tree of knowledge.&rdquo; Yet God
created knowledge and gave it freely to His creations. The symbolism
here has been given many interpretations, but you may be sure that any
interpretation that sees either God or His creations as capable of
destroying Their Own purpose is in error.
</div> 

That is very clear. Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Eating of the fruit of the tree of knowledge is a symbolic expression
for usurping the ability for self-creating.
</div> 

Okay. Eating of the fruit of the tree of knowledge is a symbolic
expression for usurping the ability for self-creating, meaning that you
have attempted to take on the capacity to be self-creative yourself.
You&rsquo;ve stolen authorship from God in effect.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is the only sense in which God and His creations are not
co-creators. The belief that they are is implicit in the
&ldquo;self-concept,&rdquo; or the tendency of the self to make an image
of itself. Images are perceived, not known.
</div> 

They are masks. They are costumes that characterize you. You go to a
fair and there are artists there who will draw caricatures of you that
capture the essence, but not the fullness, and usually bring a little
bit of humor in, which means that it makes a little bit of fun of the
flaws in you. Images are perceived, not known.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Knowledge cannot deceive, but perception can. You can perceive yourself
as self-creating, but you cannot do more than believe it. You cannot
make it true. And, as I said before, when you finally perceive correctly
you can only be glad that you cannot. Until then, however, the belief
that you can is the foundation stone in your thought system, and all
your defenses are used to attack ideas that might bring it to light. You
still believe &hellip;
</div> 

Let&rsquo;s stop right there. And all your defenses are used to attack
ideas that might bring it to light. Again the reason is because your
sense of identity is derived from the imagined authority that you have
brought into play so that you might succeed at replacing God by actually
defining something and the definition becoming the new capital
&ldquo;M&rdquo; Meaning of it. The defense comes up because you do not
want to lose this cherished sense of identity, this caricature of
identity.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You still believe you are an image of your own making. Your mind is
split with the Holy Spirit on this point&hellip;
</div> 

I&rsquo;m going to interrupt, and when you continue I&rsquo;d like you
to go back to the beginning of that sentence. Your mind is split with
the Holy Spirit on this point. Remember that I said the Holy Spirit is
your Divinity held in trust while you dally with the ego. This is
another way, that is another way of saying your mind is split with the
Holy Spirit.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your mind is split with the Holy Spirit on this point, and there is no
resolution while you believe the one thing that is literally
inconceivable. That is why you cannot create and are filled with fear
about what you make.
</div> 

Understand that when something is conceived, it is Created. When
something is imagined, all you have is a belief as a result. You have
what you made-up. What is conceived becomes Created. Creation is God
conceiving infinitely according to His Nature and Being. And what God
conceives and is experienced as Creation varies not one iota from the
Nature and Character of God.

Your Function is to be the conscious experience of the conceiving which
becomes Creation. The authority you are all trying so hard to have
independently is an Authority that waits for you to join with It letting
It be the Totality of You so that you find yourself standing always at
the threshold between Conception and Creation, being All of Both with
God, with God. And without any sense of tininess or privateness or
differentness associated with it.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The mind can make the belief in separation very real and very fearful,
and this belief is the &ldquo;devil.&rdquo; It is powerful, active,
destructive and clearly in opposition to God, because it literally
denies His Fatherhood.
</div> 

And there we are again. When you claim an existence separate from God,
you are denying His Fatherhood. You are denying your Sonship.

A Father without a Son is not a Father and a Son without a Father is not
a Son. Let me put it this way: If a Son could successfully separate
himself from His Father, both would cease to exist.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Look at your life and see what the devil has made. But realize that this
making &hellip;
</div> 

I&rsquo;m going to interrupt one more time. Look at your life and see
what the devil has made. &ldquo;Ooo hoo, you see what the devil has
made?&rdquo; No. Look at your life and see what your practice of giving
your own definitions to everything as being different from what God is
Be-ing right there has made for you. Look what it has made-up for you.
It has made-up for you a lot of curious, radically unique and distorted
perceptions that constantly reinforce a sense of threat and danger and
persecution and vulnerability for you. Look at what the devil has made.
Look at what the thought system you have been employing has made for you.
When you realize that it&rsquo;s your very own thought system that has
made it for you and that that&rsquo;s all that there is to the devil,
you&rsquo;ll realize that there is no evil power out there that may be
stronger than you. And you will also recognize that the solution to the
problem is a simple change of mind from making things up yourself to
letting God be the only One Who is making anything, actually which means
that He is Creating them.

Again, waking up is transferring the mantle of authorship from your
shoulders to the Real Author. And again, although that may seem to
deprive you of something essential to your individuality, your sense of
who you are, it will return you to Who You REALLY Are because you will
be taking your place as Son and letting Father be Father. And in that
joining you will lose all sense of difference from the Father and find
that the Father is All there is of You. Your Identity will be infinitely
enhanced and then when you look at your life or your experience, you
will rejoice. You will exist in an ever-present conscious experience of
Joy.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
But realize that this making will surely dissolve in the light of truth,
because its foundation is a lie. Your creation by God is the only
foundation that cannot be shaken, because the light is in it. Your
starting point is truth, and you must return to your Beginning. Much has
been seen since then&hellip;
</div> 

And you could say much has been made, or a lot of water has gone under
the bridge with flotsam and jetsam of your imagination flowing by.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Much has been seen since then, but nothing has really happened. Your
Self is still in peace, even though your mind is in conflict. You have
not yet gone back far enough, and that is why you become so fearful. As
you approach the Beginning, you feel the fear of the destruction of your
thought system &hellip;
</div> 

And your sense of your identity. Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; upon you as if it were the fear of death. There is no death,
but there is a belief in death.
</div> 

And you must understand this so that when you are faced with this fear
that arises as you get back near the Beginning, you will say, &ldquo;I
will proceed further anyway. Because all there is to this fear that is
arising is nothing more than the death throes of what I have imagined
myself to be and which I have invested emotion into.&rdquo;

So don&rsquo;t be surprised that it&rsquo;s there, but also, don&rsquo;t
be deterred by it.

Pardon?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
What does that mean, &ldquo;as you approach the Beginning&rdquo;?
</div> 

As you retrace your steps and you get back to, closer to, the point
where you made that initial step away from Home and said, &ldquo;I would
rather see it my way.&rdquo; As you get back closer your Essential
Being, your Real Self, because you are abandoning your insistence upon
private personal authority, you will find fear increasing. That&rsquo;s
why I said, when you get near the doors of the Kingdom of Heaven, you
will find that the ego will create gargoyles around it to scare you off.
And the point is: Persist forward. Know that that will happen, and when
it happens, disregard it.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So &ldquo;Beginning&rdquo; just means where you begun to have a thought
different from God.
</div> 

Exactly. The Beginning is where you started from on this fateful
journey.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Thank you.
</div> 

You are welcome. Yes?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
In regards to what you just said, I&rsquo;ve been experiencing more
peace recently, except for certain events that seem to take place that
bring up issues, and I&rsquo;m wondering, are those events taking place
because the ego&rsquo;s putting up the gargoyles, as you said, or
because that is what I have to experience on my journey back to the
Beginning?
</div> 

Each undoing of a belief has its own little gargoyles, has its own
little resistances, because you&rsquo;re breaking a habit. And when you
break a habit, there&rsquo;s a certain discomfort because you have
become comfortable with your habits. The abandoning of a habit is the
abandoning of a certain level of comfort which you have held onto in
order to avoid being out of control.

What&rsquo;s being referred to here as quote &ldquo;as you approach the
Beginning,&rdquo; we&rsquo;re not talking about the little breaking of
habits that occurs along the way, but as you near the end of the undoing
of old beliefs and old definitions, that point where the only thing left
for you to do is to abandon control completely and forever. Okay.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Can I just review &hellip; Oh, before you move on, can I go back to the
conceiving thing?
</div> 

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I sort of got stuck there because it seems like the paragraph
didn&rsquo;t fit in with the rest of it. Is God the only One Who
conceives and does He conceive through us? And that is inspiration?
</div> 

God is the only One Who conceives. The fact is that you&rsquo;re not
separate from Him for Him to conceive through.

This &ldquo;us&rdquo; that&rsquo;s on its way home is an imaginary
&ldquo;us.&rdquo; It&rsquo;s You, the Divine One That You Are, believing
that you are some sort of independent lost soul, lost from God, on a
journey home. It&rsquo;s the Christ believing he or she isn&rsquo;t the
Christ, returning to the realization that he or she is the Christ. And
so this one apparently coming Home is the imaginary self. But the closer
you get to Home, the less that imaginary self has value for you and the
more you find yourself feeling your Divinity and your Nature as It is
derived from God. And as that happens, you desire even more fully to
have God reveal to you this Divine Nature of your Being. And so, as you
move toward Home, and as you yield to what the Father reveals to you
about You, you become more and more undefended against experiencing your
Christhood.

But when you get Home, there is no experience of separation and you are
not something for God to conceive through. You find yourself to be the
Conscious Experience of the Movement of Conception/Creation.

Now, You Are Being That at this moment. That is What You Are at the
moment, at this moment. You&rsquo;re just not paying any attention to
it. You have, in effect, blocked it out because you preferred to toy
with the idea of being able to be a private personal creator on your
own. And you can&rsquo;t possibly do that unless somehow you block from
yourself the fact that God is the only Author. So you must deny that in
order to have a place, as insane as it is, to pretend authorship and to
explore all of the interesting facets of it, and what it means for you
and what it means about you and what power it gives you over things,
including your brothers and sisters, and so on and so on. You see? You
can&rsquo;t possibly explore that in a believable way unless you deny
God&rsquo;s Authority and push It out of sight.

Nevertheless, You as the Presence of God are at this very moment Being
the Movement of God that is Conception/Creation. And coming back into
your Right Mind means becoming undefended to this Fullness of Your Being
so that you are not denying it so successfully that you&rsquo;re somehow
unconscious of it. You see? Okay.

You must be careful when we talk about the journey Home, because it
implies that there is someone making a journey Home. And quite
obviously, you have to bring into play an intent to go back Home. But
the only thing that can successfully have the intent to return Home is
some part of the Awakened One That You Are, that could never have been
gotten rid of, asserting Itself instead of the willfulness that wants to
assert itself independently.

It is your Sanity registering with you in the middle of your insanity.
And so it would seem that there is an insane one getting more sane. But
the fact is that it is the Whole One that each of you is, coming into a
fuller experience of What It Is in Its Wholeness. So it can be
confusing. That&rsquo;s why it&rsquo;s so important not to get too
focused on this one who is returning Home and the dynamics of the trip.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
It&rsquo;s just Be-ing Divine Movement. If we are, we are in action as
Divine Movement.
</div> 

Yes. Either consciously or unconsciously. And if it&rsquo;s
unconsciously&hellip; 

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Then we screw it up.
</div> 

If it is unconsciously, everything is already screwed up as far as your
perceptions of the Only Thing To Perceive go. And the Only Thing To
Perceive, or have a perception about, is the Kingdom of
Heaven&mdash;Reality.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So going back to Michael&rsquo;s statement about positive thinking. What
is that? Is that&hellip; could what positive&hellip;
</div> 

&ldquo;Every day in every way, I&rsquo;m getting better and
better.&rdquo; It&rsquo;s a positive use of will, of willfulness,
personal will. Yes. It doesn&rsquo;t really have anything to do with
yielding to the only Author there is. And that yielding to the only
Author there is, is the only thing that will uncover you better and
better. You see?

It&rsquo;s time to abandon clear, correct thinking as the means for
getting Home. And let this one clear thought be the bridge to getting
Home, and that one clear thought is: Thy Will be done.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
But doesn&rsquo;t sometimes &ldquo;Thy Will be done&rdquo; come out in
positive feedback to somebody or a positive &hellip; if something awful
is going on and you just sort of have this &hellip; you see that there
is a purpose, or there&rsquo;s gotta be something and it comes out like
positive thinking, or positive speaking. Oh, I&rsquo;m sorry.
Isn&rsquo;t that a natural &hellip;
</div> 

Love. When you are in touch with the Father, when you are the Expression
of Love, of course the Truth that comes out of your mouth, the Love that
comes out of your mouth, will always be affirmative.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
That&rsquo;s what I was getting at.
</div> 

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And that answers it.
</div> 

But that&rsquo;s different from putting together &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
By rote.
</div> 

&hellip; a string of words that are positive and thinking that by
rehearsing that string of words, you&rsquo;re going to get better.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Because that&rsquo;s phony.
</div> 

Because that doesn&rsquo;t let God in yet. That&rsquo;s still personal
private authorship of the string of words. This whole book, A Course in
Miracles, is… are positive ideas. Positive meaningful ideas will always
lead you in the direction of abandoning thoughts for the inspiration
that God has for you. Truly meaningful words will help relieve you of
the fear of abandoning control and submitting yourself to the
Father&rsquo;s Will. But that&rsquo;s different than a practice of
positive thinking. Is that clear?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Absolutely. Yes. Thank you.
</div> 

Yes. Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The branch that bears no fruit will be cut off and will wither away. Be
glad! The light will shine from the true Foundation of life, and your
own thought system will stand corrected.
</div> 

There it is. The branch that bears no fruit. In other words, the thought
system that doesn&rsquo;t result in Creation, the thought system that
makes rather than creates, will be cut off and will wither away. Be
glad, rejoice! The Light will shine from the true capital
&ldquo;F&rdquo; Foundation or the true Author of Life. And your own
thought system will stand corrected. In other words, you will not
disappear. You will remain with your thought system corrected so that
now your thought system is derived from the influx of Truth that God is
embodying at all times right where you are. So this has nothing to do
with annihilation at all.

Okay, continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It cannot stand otherwise. You who fear salvation are choosing death.
Life and death, light and darkness, knowledge and perception, are
irreconcilable. To believe that they can be reconciled is to believe
that God and His Son can not. Only the oneness of knowledge is free of
conflict. Your kingdom is not of this world because it was given you
from beyond this world.
</div> 

Now just a moment: &ldquo;Your Kingdom,&rdquo; this is not a Kingdom
that you&rsquo;ve created. &ldquo;Your Kingdom&rdquo; is the Kingdom
that it&rsquo;s the Father&rsquo;s good pleasure to give you and always
has been giving you. &ldquo;Your Kingdom&rdquo; is the One that is Your
Inheritance. As long as you see yourself as separate from God, His
Kingdom will seem to be something you stand in receipt of. But when you
join with the Father, the Kingdom is experienced as Your Being.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Only in this world is the idea of an authority problem meaningful.
</div> 

Only in the world that you have made and made-up.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The world is not left by death but by truth, and truth can be known by
all those for whom the Kingdom was created, and for whom it waits.
</div> 

And It waits for you because It Is You. It waits for you to re-embrace
It. It waits for you to re-embrace your Self. And you re-embrace your
Self by embracing the Father as the Father that makes You the Son or You
the Offspring. And the moment you reestablish the Fatherhood of God by
claiming the Daughtership or the Sonship of God, then the Father and the
Son become One once again as your Conscious Experience. And that&rsquo;s
what this is all about.

Wow! What more can we say? Well, about 675 more pages. But that is where
we will end for today, with more of the good news. I love you all.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Thank you, Raj. We love you, too.
</div> 

And you know what? You&rsquo;re loving me. What You Really Are, even
when you&rsquo;re down in the dumps, even when you&rsquo;re at the
bottom of the barrel, even when you&rsquo;re pissed off at me,
you&rsquo;re loving me because you haven&rsquo;t stopped being the
Presence of what God is Be-ing, and what you therefore really are is
still Loving me right in the midst of your, I&rsquo;m going to say,
virtual anger and distress. You are always all the Presence of Love.

Sometimes you wonder, &ldquo;how can he listen to all of us wailing,
either because of our misery or because of our upset with him?&rdquo;
Well, I hear it, but what I experience is the Love That You ARE. And the
Love That You Are perfectly being at every moment, you could say, is the
ongoing reassurance that you are providing me with that says what
you&rsquo;re believing isn&rsquo;t harming you at all. You haven&rsquo;t
been able to make your imaginations real. And so I know, because of the
impeccable Love that each of you cannot stop Be-ing and that is Loving
me, that you are assured of abandoning the wish, the wish you have to be
personal private creators that ultimately are causing your wailing.

So I just want you to know how Complete and how Ultimate You Are at the
moment. And that&rsquo;s why Awakening is literally a journey without
distance. So don&rsquo;t get fascinated with the journey of Awakening.
Okay.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Thank you.
</div> 

Microphone.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
If we are loving you at the moment and you feel that, are we not also
loving each other?
</div> 

Oh yes! You are bathed in Love&mdash;unbelievably and infinitely. You
get a feel when people talk about passing on and moving toward a Light
that is whiter than anything they have ever experienced. The Love with
which you are all loving each other is the Energy of Spirit, and it is
Light. And you stand in such illumination, you wouldn&rsquo;t believe
it.

I&rsquo;m telling you this so that when you are in your darkest moment,
you might not take that darkest moment so seriously. And in not taking
it quite so seriously cause yourself to be vulnerable to the Experience
of Love, of the Love with which all of you are blessing each other, and
the Love that I am extending to you. The dream, it just
&rsquo;tain&rsquo;t so. And you need to have a glimpse of just how
fragile the dream is, just how fragile the suffering is, and how easily
it can crack apart and disappear. I look forward to being with you next
week.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Thank you.
</div> 

[^1]: T3.VI Judgement and the Authority Problem
[^2]: Students commenting or asking a question.

