---
title: Jun 29, 2003
ref: T4.In Introduction
---

Good afternoon. Don&rsquo;t sigh Michael. And good afternoon to everyone
who&rsquo;s joining us on the internet as well, and if those of you on
the internet have a question specific to something we&rsquo;re
discussing from the Course, feel free to post your question. Okay.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*The Illusions of the Ego*[^1]
</div> 

All of you have rather sloppy definitions of the ego that tend to cause
it to seem as though it is something that has a life of its own. And yet
last week we found that the ego is nothing more than a thought system, a
system of thoughts, something made-up, an infrastructure, you might say,
of ideas strung together in a way that seem to give you a code for
living and a means of understanding the Kingdom of Heaven without ever
having to refer to the Father in order to understand the Real Meaning of
the Kingdom of Heaven. And so using this thought system, you walk around
in the middle of the Kingdom of Heaven calling it the world and universe
which started with a big bang that is purely physical and this you call
life.

Now, imagine, if you will, that sometime in the not too distant future
you can go to the grocery store and you can buy packets, foil packets,
little tiny foil packets of instant water. Freeze-dried water vapor,
we&rsquo;ll say. And all you have to do, as with any other instant
product, is bring it home and no matter that the packet is very tiny,
you pour it into a glass and you add water.

You&rsquo;re supposed to smile. [brief scattered laughs] Does anyone get
it?  [a few more quick laughs]

Now, we&rsquo;ll bring it into focus. There isn&rsquo;t any such thing
and can&rsquo;t be any such thing as dry water that can be put into a
packet. But you can imagine kids pretending to have little packets of
dry water, just little empty packets, and they pour it in and then they
add water and they&rsquo;re amazed at how much you can make with just
that little packet. Because their attention is on the packet and
they&rsquo;re ignoring the fact that they are adding real water to
nothing and ending up with as much real water as they want. They are
consciously ignoring the facts and sticking with their imagination that
they have created dry water, dried instant water that they can make as
much as they want from.

Now, the ego is like dry water. It&rsquo;s a bunch of nothing. But you
all talk about the ego as though it&rsquo;s something. You say,
&ldquo;What an ego he is.&rdquo; You define other people by their
egohood. You say, &ldquo;Boy, my ego is on the rampage today.&rdquo; And
at other times you acknowledge that you are an ego. And yet, the ego is
nothing but a thought system, a collection of ideas. You think of the
ego as being willful, and therefore having a persona that has the
capacity to have an original intent and carry it out. And yet the fact
is that it is nothing but a thought system, a collection of thoughts and
ideas that you believe and have committed yourself to.

Now, the first step away from Home was the mad idea, you might say,
&ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;d rather see it my way. I&rsquo;d rather see All
That Is according to definitions I give it.&rdquo; In that act, you
didn&rsquo;t realize that you were also giving yourself a definition
that was nothing but dry water.  Nothing but nothing. You were saying,
&ldquo;I have a capacity to see things on my own. I have a capacity to
see things the way I want to see them.&rdquo; And that was the beginning
of what you call the ego.

But again, the ego is nothing but a packet of nothing. And the only way
it can seem to become something is if you add the Real Thing to it. And
so, what is the only Real Thing you can add to an idea of an ego as a
thing? It is the Christ That You Are. It is What You Really Are. And so,
as I said last week, you have developed beliefs and you have made
commitment to them so now you believe them. You are the Christ
pretending not to be the Christ and believing your belief.

This is very important, especially as we go into this section about the
illusions of the ego. Because all there is to your ego is a bunch of
nothing constituted of ideas not gathered from God but from the
imagination. In other words, created out of nothing, and the result of
that creation is still a bunch of nothing but with a bunch of
complicated definitions that seem to have substance.

And the only thing that makes the ego seem to be able to act with
purpose is that your capacity to be the expression of purpose which is
Real has to be added to it, and then you have to consciously choose to
ignore that you&rsquo;ve added something Real to it so that you can
think that the nothing that you made out of nothing has become
something. Just like the kids thinking that they put in a packet of
nothing, added water to it, and the nothing became water. And they
ignore the fact that the water that is there was Real.

Is that clear to everyone?

So, while we&rsquo;re reading about the ego here, we&rsquo;re not
reading about you.  We&rsquo;re not reading about a thing. We&rsquo;re
not reading about anything that has a capacity to have a conscious
intent. And you must remember that all there is to it is a Christ
imagining that he or she has a capacity to conceive of himself or
herself as something separate from what God is Being. And, then
borrowing from the Truth or the Reality of Himself or Herself that which
is Real and adding It to the infrastructure of nothing causing it to
seem to be something capable of conscious intent, of conscious will that
can act, that can make, that can wish, and thus be a life force, if you
will.

So again, any ego you think you are, or any ego you think you see, is
nothing but the Divine One that God has Created pretending not to be the
Presence of God, believing that he or she is not the Presence of God,
and then consciously rejecting his or her Source and abiding in this
imagination, this system of thoughts.

Once you understand this, you will see that the ego is nothing to deal
with, it doesn&rsquo;t really exist, and that the solution to the
problem of being an ego is to once again consciously remember your
Source.  Consciously remember the only Real Author there is and abandon
any authority you thought you had so that you begin to realize that
whatever is experienceable is Real by virtue of the Father&rsquo;s Will,
and what you thought it was is really non-existent.

In doing this, in remembering your Source like we read last week, you
remember God is your Father which makes You His Son which makes You
Real. And in your acknowledgement of What You Truly Are, in your
remembering What You Truly Are, the Father and the Son become One as a
Conscious Experience and you wake up.

So I hope I&rsquo;ve helped to make it clear that the ego is like a
packet of dry water to which you must add something Real, which is the
Divine One That You Are, the Christ That You Are, and that seems to give
the ego life. But the Life is drawn from what is Real about You. This is
very important. Even so, the life that the ego seems to have by virtue
of your having added something Real to it, exists no more than the
contents of the packet of nothing that were put into the glass before
you added the real water to it.

So, again, the ego is nothing more than the Divine One That You Are
believing that you are not What You Are and suffering from your belief.
But it still doesn&rsquo;t make your existence as an ego real.
Therefore, the solution lies in remembering that right now in the middle
of your dream, you are a Divine One creating an illusion and believing
it. And the only thing that is necessary in order to wake up is not to
challenge the ego that you seem to have created, but to remember Who You
Are and to throw your allegiance on that side.

Okay, let us begin.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Chapter 4 *The Illusions of the Ego*

The Bible says that you should go with a brother twice as far as he
asks. It certainly does not suggest that you set him back on his
journey. Devotion to a brother cannot set you back either. It can lead
only to mutual progress. The result of genuine devotion is inspiration,
a word which properly understood is the opposite of fatigue. To be
fatigued is to be dis-spirited, but to be inspired is to be in the
spirit. To be egocentric is to be dis-spirited, but to be Self-centered
in the right sense is to be inspired or in spirit. The truly inspired
are enlightened and cannot abide in darkness.
</div> 

To be egocentric is to be dis-spirited. To identify with the ego is to
be identified with the emptiness in the packet to which you added what
was Real about you. To get a divorce from your Father by choosing to see
things on your own is to put yourself in a place devoid of the Father, a
place devoid of your Source, at least in your imagination, and in effect
to become unplugged, and that is dis-spiriting. That causes you to lose
your Spirit. To be dis-spirited is to be fatigued. You find your energy
draining because you&rsquo;re identifying with something non-existent in
a place that&rsquo;s empty of anything.

This is important. To be fatigued is to be dis-spirited. But to be
inspired is to be in the Spirit. And so as long as you have your back to
the Altar, you will feel weak and in a process of becoming constantly
weaker. But when you turn toward the Altar to ask of the Father,
&ldquo;What does this mean? What does that mean? What do the petals on
the rose mean? What did you intend by that petal on the rose?&rdquo;
then you open yourself up to be inspired, infilled. Infilled with the
knowledge of what is Real rather than being, you might say, infilled
with the emptiness of something that does not exist.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
It says here, &ldquo;The truly inspired are enlightened and cannot abide
in darkness.&rdquo; I think where that causes confusion for me is that
at times in my life I have felt inspired, but I don&rsquo;t think
I&rsquo;ve ever been fully awake or enlightened. [^2]
</div> 

That is correct.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So what this is saying that I&rsquo;m sure many people have felt
inspired by many things, but that&rsquo;s not the same kind of inspired
as this is talking about.
</div> 

No, that is not correct. True inspiration, the inspiration that is
experienced because the penetration of Truth has occurred, that is Real.
If you are calling listening to a speaker who jacks you up and who revs
you up, if you call that inspiration, that is not inspiration, even
though you might float out of there on a high.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Well, I find you inspiring at times. Am I &hellip; is that &hellip;
</div> 

Well, you&rsquo;ll also agree it&rsquo;s never because I&rsquo;ve jacked
up your ego.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
That&rsquo;s true. I see the difference. Okay. I&rsquo;ll pass the mike
now.
</div> 

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You can speak from the spirit or from the ego, as you choose. If you
speak from spirit you have chosen to &ldquo;Be still and know that I am
God.&rdquo;
</div> 

And I&rsquo;m going to interrupt there. It might be helpful to remember
that it&rsquo;s God that is saying this and this would only need to be
said to a Christ who has chosen to indulge in imagination and turn his
back on the Father, and thus, as I said, steal authority from the Father
in order to apparently engage it as an act of his own or her own.

And so the Father says, &ldquo;Be still. Shut up. Silence your mind. Be
still and know that I am God, not you. Be still and know that I am the
Father and you are the Son because this is how you remember Who You Are
which is the essential first step to coming back Home into your Right
Mind. Be still and know that I am the Author. I am the Source. And when
you stop trying to be an independent source of things and let yourself
back into Me, you will find your Conscious Experience of Being, the
Experience of Being the Source, the experience of being the threshold
where Conception moves into Creation. You will find yourself having the
full blown Conscious Experience of Being Me which is your Function. In
other words, You and I are One, and I am that One.&rdquo;

It&rsquo;s important that this be understood so that you might realize
that the process of awakening will constitute the complete, complete,
complete relinquishment of any authority you might have on your own. And
yet, that will not mean that you will cease to be conscious of yourself
as the Father individualized, period.

And remember that I have said before that the Father individualized is
Universal and specific simultaneously. And I will let that just set with
you.

Let&rsquo;s continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
These words are inspired because they reflect knowledge. If you speak
from the ego you are disclaiming knowledge instead of affirming it, and
are thus dis-spiriting yourself.
</div> 

That&rsquo;s important. When you go through your day without ever
experiencing or allowing for a conscious Idea of God, and without for a
moment looking at anything that confronts you in your day without
remembering that if anything is going on there at all, it must be God
and therefore it must be more than what I&rsquo;m experiencing at the
moment and therefore I want to be curious about what it really is, you
are in the act of dis-spiriting yourself. You are in the act of pushing
yourself further and further into the hole, further and further into
ignorance, further and further into the quote &ldquo;the problem of
being&rdquo; unquote.

Now, am I trying to discourage you? No. I&rsquo;m simply trying to show
you that there&rsquo;s another choice available to you that is a
significantly better choice so that you might at least play with it once
in a while, so that you might engage the conscious awareness once in a
while, and then, hopefully, more and more frequently.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Do not embark on useless journeys, because they are indeed in vain. The
ego may desire them, but spirit cannot embark on them because it is
forever unwilling to depart from its Foundation.
</div> 

The ego may desire them. Oh now, there it sounds like the ego has a
capacity to actually desire something all by itself because it is
something real. The Christ who is choosing to ignore his Christhood and
thus is experiencing his Divinity in a fantastic imaginative way, and I
use the word &ldquo;fantastic&rdquo; with a sense of fantasy, that one,
and all of them are, has become hooked on the challenge of overcoming
the discomfort of trying to be something he isn&rsquo;t. And so that
Divine One which is referred to here as the ego, that Divine One brings
Its Divine Capacity to commit to something to the overcoming of the
discomfort of trying to be something It isn&rsquo;t by doing something
with the problem it perceives rather than remembering Its Divinity and
abandoning the game of imagination.

So, here&rsquo;s where the carelessness in language comes into play
about the ego. You, the Divine Ones that You Are, have imagined, have
imagined, and I know I&rsquo;m being repetitive, have imagined out of
whole cloth, out of nothing, out of the ethers, if you will, something
that cannot be.  And this is an unnatural function to you because your
Function is to be in the constant acknowledgement of the Movement of
Creation that God is Being from Whom you are not separate.

So, you have imagined something out of whole cloth, out of nothing, and
then you have chosen to make commitment to it. And you&rsquo;ve made
commitment to it with the Will of God in You, while claiming that you
have no connection to God, and therefore, you have created a state of
delusion. But it&rsquo;s the Christ, the Holy One, doing it. And
that&rsquo;s what is called the ego. The ego may desire them, meaning
useless journeys, but Spirit, the Divine One That You Are, cannot embark
on them because It is forever unwilling to depart from Its Foundation,
meaning Its Source.

The Divine One that you are, in spite of this imagination, has not
stopped being the Son of God or the Daughter of God. And the fact is
that you, even though you believe you have successfully created a world
and universe through the use of your imagination, have not been able to
create it. And waking up is the discovery that you made nothing that
occurs because you come to a point where you&rsquo;re willing to abandon
fantasy and the apparent hit that you get from trying to overcome the
uncomfortableness that&rsquo;s inherent in believing something that
isn&rsquo;t true.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The journey to the cross should be the last &ldquo;useless
journey.&rdquo; Do not dwell upon it, but dismiss it as accomplished. If
you can accept it as your own last useless journey, you are also free to
join my resurrection.
</div> 

Now what do you think the journey to the cross would be? Well, the
journey to the cross is the end result of your fantasy, the end result
of your redefining the Kingdom of Heaven as the world and the universe
and of yourself as a separate entity from God, having thereby put
yourself in a position of being dis-spirited, having put yourself in a
position where the nature of your existence is one of increasing
exhaustion. You will ultimately come to the point where something will
kill you, whether it&rsquo;s someone nailing nails into your hands on a
cross made out of boards, or whether it&rsquo;s a disease, or whether
it&rsquo;s an accident.

You will inevitably come to the end result of the choice you have made
to define everything by yourself and the attempt to exist in a space
that is empty of anything while believing it is full. If you can accept
this experience of being that you are having because you turned your
back on the Altar as a last useless attempt to be on your own, you will
also be free to join my resurrection.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Until you do so your life is indeed wasted. It merely re-enacts the
separation, the loss of power, the futile attempts of the ego at
reparation, and finally the crucifixion of the body, or death. Such
repetitions are endless until they are voluntarily given up.
</div> 

And this refers to lifetimes. And it even refers to what you might call
lifetimes within a single lifetime, because many times a single life
seems to be many in which you make the same mistake over and over and
over again, because you choose over and over again to do something that
doesn&rsquo;t work.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Do not make the pathetic error of &ldquo;clinging to the old rugged
cross.&rdquo; The only message of the crucifixion is that you can
overcome the cross.
</div> 

But you don&rsquo;t overcome the cross by hacking it to bits with an
axe. You don&rsquo;t overcome the cross by addressing the cross. You get
off the cross by getting out of the illusion. You get out of the
illusion by turning back &hellip; turning toward the Altar again.
Turning toward God and willingly saying, &ldquo;Thy Will be done. I know
You are the Author. I know I don&rsquo;t have any authority. And the
only authority that I&rsquo;ve ever thought I had has continuously
brought me to the experience of crucifixion. And you know what?
I&rsquo;m tired of it. And I&rsquo;m not going to wait until the
crucifixion this time to do something about it. While things are still
pretty good, even though I&rsquo;m not totally happy, I am going to turn
back toward the Altar. I am going to start inquiring of God. I am going
to start listening without interfering with hearing to what the Father
has to say to me. I am going to let His Perspective register with me. I
am going to let His Authority register with me as the Conscious
Experience of What Everything Means as the Father is Being It.&rdquo;

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
The last few words you just mentioned, I would like to know if,
I&rsquo;m going to say, anybody here does that? Do you know how to do
that?
</div> 

Let me put it this way. Those who are here are leaning in that
direction. The Divinity of each one of you is beginning to have enough
ascendance in you to cause you in your ignorance to have a desire to
have a new experience derived from the Father&rsquo;s Perspective. And
so there is a willingness, an intent, to let that experience in. And
that is increasing. But there&rsquo;s no one here doing it fully. And it
doesn&rsquo;t matter. The point is that the Divine One That You Are,
each one of you, is, well, this is a poor choice of words, awakened in
you.

Of course, the Divine One That You Are never went to sleep but the
experience of the Divine One That You Are is more conscious for you now.
And It is what gives you the motivation to press further toward Home.
Your ego will never encourage you in that direction. And so, if you are
moving in that direction, which I guarantee you that you are, it is
because the Divine One That You Are has greater ascendancy in your
awareness than it used to. And It is what you are aligning your present
sense of yourself with. And this is providing the energy for quote
&ldquo;the trip Home&rdquo; unquote. Does that answer your question?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Uh, no. Yes. But it doesn&rsquo;t address the fact that, and
I wasn&rsquo;t specific about that in the first place that um &hellip;
how do you do it? What I hear you saying is curiosity. You know, I can
be curious and then I can trip myself over being curious and then I can
trip myself over &ldquo;okay so the rowboat came by, but it didn&rsquo;t
feel like the rowboat.&rdquo; So, you know, I mean curiosity can also be
difficult for me. So how do you do it?
</div> 

You, well, you hit the nail on the head. Curiosity is indeed the key
element. And you need to persist in staying with the curiosity with this
specific proviso, that you are addressing your curiosity to God so that
God can answer, so that a connection between you and the Father can be
had. And then you simply abide persistently with the curiosity because
you have to allow the inspiration to come. You have to let the Father
in.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Thank you.
</div> 

You are welcome. Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
What&rsquo;s difficult to me when I read this is it&rsquo;s general
still, as the Course presents to me a general road map, but when you
start to take it into the details, when I start to take it into the
details of my life, I have big questions because I think of, &ldquo;Is
this place better than that place? Is this activity better than that
activity? Should I be, let&rsquo;s say, in the kitchen rather than in my
crafts room where I really love to be, and maybe even become resentful
that I can&rsquo;t be where I really want to be doing what I really want
to do.&rdquo; So when you say willfulness, what exactly does one give
up? Does he give up the talents that, let&rsquo;s say, in gardening or
going shopping for a family member? In other words, how does this get
practically realized? That&rsquo;s even a general question.
</div> 

There is no activity you can be engaged in, whether it&rsquo;s in the
kitchen, the crafts room, the store, where you are not confronted with
Creation.  With the Presence of God, in other words. And so no matter
what the apparent activity is, it is at that moment the available
threshold for you to recognize God in what is happening, to
re-experience the connection of the absolute Divinity of whatever is
going on. You think you are wanting to accomplish the finishing of a
meal, or the finishing of a project, or the finishing of the grocery
shopping, but the real goal is the Experience of God in whatever is
happening in the moment.

(PAUL: Just a moment.)

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Well, I have a little other part to this.
</div> 

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So let&rsquo;s say I embark on a new project and I join a new group of
people who enjoy the same thing I enjoy. And I believe that I&rsquo;m
going to have some fun, or some fulfillment, or expand my talents. But I
end up having a surprising experience that had nothing to do with the
goal that I set out to do. I&rsquo;m going to share an event that
happened a few weeks ago. To my surprise when I thought I was moving in
a direction of fulfillment, I found myself dealing with something
completely different than I had set out to do. During the course of the
event, I found someone pulling the chair out from under me, literally,
and falling on my face on the floor and appearing to hear &hellip;
</div> 

I beg your pardon. Your rear end is not your face.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay, I fell on my rear end and heard cracks and joints moving, and
like, you know, suddenly realizing, &ldquo;Oh, you know, I&rsquo;m still
experiencing myself as a body.&rdquo; So here I am considering that
I&rsquo;m going in one direction and I&rsquo;m caught short to say,
&ldquo;Oh well, that&rsquo;s your learning!&rdquo; So I&rsquo;m at
square one, you know, back to learning something that I didn&rsquo;t
think I had to learn and I really didn&rsquo;t want to learn right now
because I wanted to learn the other thing. So how do you explain those
kind of situations?
</div> 

You really already know the answer because you took the ego&rsquo;s bait
to engage in a social activity with a potential circle of like-minded
friends out there and have the camaraderie that you&rsquo;re told should
be available there. And yet, that morning, your Guidance said,
&ldquo;Don&rsquo;t go today.&rdquo; And you overrode it because the
infrastructure of the thought system called the ego said,
&ldquo;There&rsquo;s a promise of something you don&rsquo;t have out
there. And, you know, it would be good for you not to be so private. And
it would be good for you to have, you know, a little social time,
friendship, while you&rsquo;re also learning how to develop your skill
more fully.&rdquo;

And you were completely ungrounded because you abandoned the Place where
the Guidance came from. And, so you might say, you made a useless
journey and got to the crucifixion part of the story real quick.

I understand that part of the infrastructure of the ego is that if you
don&rsquo;t engage in easy-going gay repartee with your friends and
neighbors, life will be empty, life will be boring. Well, look at the
alternative.  Peace would have been a lot better than the crucifixion
you experienced.  Also you have to be willing to get rid of or let go of
the measuring stick that the ego uses. In other words, the so-called
rules set into place by the infrastructure of all of the various ideas
in the thought system that is called the ego. Maybe you are not out
there in the world.  And maybe you&rsquo;re not out there engaging in
the community. But where are you getting the measuring stick that says,
&ldquo;You ought to be doing that.  That&rsquo;s what everybody does.
That&rsquo;s what normal people do.&rdquo;

But you know what? That isn&rsquo;t what your Guidance is saying. If you
will stay with your Guidance, I promise you, all of you, it will take
you into new patterns of behavior, new ways of Being in the world that
don&rsquo;t match up with all the definitions that you have made-up in
an attempt to give meaning to your life.

And you&rsquo;ve got to start asking, &ldquo;Do I really want to be in
the world in the atmosphere and the Energy and the Nature and Character
of what God is Being right here? Or do I want to continue missing
what&rsquo;s really going on, including the feeling of a new way of
Being, by continuing to reinforce the old definitions.&rdquo;

You&rsquo;ve got to remember that we&rsquo;re talking about change.
We&rsquo;re talking about correction occurring. We&rsquo;re talking
about having a new experience of the Kingdom of Heaven that is, at the
least, a closer approximation of what the Kingdom of Heaven is than the
one you&rsquo;re currently employing with such great vigor and
commitment.

But that means being willing to abandon the status quo, to not
necessarily fit in with the mutually-agreed-upon definitions of your
society, and taking your Impulse for Being from a place other than the
mutually-agreed-upon definitions, meaning the Movement of God&rsquo;s
Will for you right here while you&rsquo;re apparently quote &ldquo;in
the world.&rdquo; You must let your actions be impulsed from a new
place, not the old place which is nothing more than old habit patterns,
ruts.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
May I say something else, please?
</div> 

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Well, it also left me with the challenge that what, you know, what my
talents are and what I have to give may be given up soon along with
everything else. So that&rsquo;s a good &hellip; a great fear that I
have. If I wake up I&rsquo;m going to lose what I love to do.
</div> 

Yes. Yes.

Whatever you&rsquo;re experiencing right now is Something Real seen in a
limited fashion. Unreality has never occurred! No ego has ever been
brought into existence. Therefore Awakening will not cause you to lose
anything, but to experience every single thing in greater fullness.
Every little thing will be infinitely enhanced, together with an
apparently increased capacity on the part of every one of you to embrace
it all without confusion and without the confinements of time so that
the real meaning of cooking, and the real meaning of a project
you&rsquo;re engaged in, and the real meaning of shopping, all occur
simultaneously.

You are not going to lose. You&rsquo;ve already lost. You&rsquo;re
already existing in a state of lack. The only direction there is, is up.
The only direction there is, is expansion. Greater and greater
inclusiveness of what is Real so that what you bring into play with the
crafts you engage in, and what you bring into play with the cooking you
engage in, and what one brings into play in whatever area of interest
that involves creativity, et cetera, those things, the meaning of them
and the embodiment of them will be increasingly enhanced to infinity.

You all must watch, like I said, for the gargoyles the ego puts up
around your fulfillment, and not find ways to practice faithlessness, to
employ doubt. As though the further along your path you get, the more
clearly right and wrong activity will be illuminated, and therefore a
greater starkness between whether you&rsquo;re doing something
that&rsquo;s right or you&rsquo;re doing something that&rsquo;s wrong,
something that you&rsquo;ll get a gold star for divinely and something
you&rsquo;ll get a penalty for. Whatever it is you&rsquo;re doing,
don&rsquo;t weigh it to see, &ldquo;Am I doing the right thing or the
wrong thing?&rdquo; Whatever it is, take that instant, that instance and
desire of God to know what the capital &ldquo;M&rdquo; Meaning of it is.
Embrace the instant fully with the desire to move over whatever
threshold of limitation is present with you so that you can see the more
of God that&rsquo;s in it.

Don&rsquo;t take the bait, else the ego will rake you over the coals and
keep you busy &ldquo;being sure that you&rsquo;re not doing the wrong
thing,&rdquo; or &ldquo;making sure that you&rsquo;re doing the right
thing even if you don&rsquo;t want to.&rdquo; And let every moment be
the occasion for the willingness to recognize God Being You and the
events you&rsquo;re in the middle of.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I know I&rsquo;m hogging the mike this week, but there&rsquo;s one last
little thing.
</div> 

That is the biggest mistake you could make. You see how quick the ego
is. Where did that measuring stick come from? How much time is the right
amount of time? How much is the right amount of time to take to talk
with me, to be with me? &ldquo;And well, yeah, I see your question might
not elicit as good an answer as someone else&rsquo;s question.&rdquo;
Tssk. Mmm.  &ldquo;Maybe someone else&rsquo;s question would be more
enlightening to everyone.&rdquo; Bullshit!

This instant is the opportunity to move over a threshold, for everyone
to move over a threshold of limited perception into greater
understanding. Because why? Communion is occurring. Involvement is
occurring. Love is happening.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay. Well, there&rsquo;s even another little part to this thing and
this is that it sent me on a completely different project of forgiving
the person who pulled the chair out from under me in the first place,
and even showing my face in the store where they work. So, I don&rsquo;t
know, it just &hellip; it just brought me up to the point where I
realized, you know, how angry I was with that person and wanting to
teach them, you know, better manners, I guess you could say.
</div> 

Of course, you see, you&rsquo;re the one who didn&rsquo;t listen to
Guidance. And so you&rsquo;re the one who went on a useless journey. And
of course, now it&rsquo;s important to nail the one who nailed you to
the cross. [scattered audience laughs]

Everything that happened from the point where you didn&rsquo;t listen to
your Guidance was nonsense and not any part of it deserves your
attention, except to exonerate it all by realizing that it isn&rsquo;t
what the Father had in Mind. Therefore, it wasn&rsquo;t what was in the
Father&rsquo;s Mind, and therefore, because it wasn&rsquo;t in the
Father&rsquo;s Mind, what you experienced didn&rsquo;t happen, and the
belief that it did is what constitutes the &ldquo;useless&rdquo; part of
the phrase &ldquo;useless journey.&rdquo;

So you must forgive it all, which means withdraw your judgments on every
part of it because it didn&rsquo;t happen. And because what happened
didn&rsquo;t arise out of the Authority of God, God did not author what
you experienced. That fact is what you will come into the full
experience of when you forgive the whole thing and any residual of
injury [snaps fingers] will immediately vanish.

Because in spite of what your body seems to be saying, it didn&rsquo;t
happen if God didn&rsquo;t create it. That sounds extreme. That sounds
radical and it sounds unintelligent. But somewhere along the line
you&rsquo;re going to discover that everything that seems so real to you
that you have made-up and imagined and made commitment to hasn&rsquo;t
happened. It literally hasn&rsquo;t happened. God&rsquo;s Creation, what
God Is Being has not been altered in any way at any time in Eternity.
And it&rsquo;s that Fact, together with you remembering that You are the
Son or Daughter of God, and not God, will uncover and cause to be
manifest as your conscious experience of what is Real and your complete
freedom from whatever manifestations you were experiencing of suffering
and crucifixion.

Instantaneous healing of the most ghastly forms of human experience are
possible because they are water that has been made out of a packet of
nothing.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I&rsquo;d just like to ask at this point, isn&rsquo;t that what we would
also consider free will? I mean isn&rsquo;t that what free will is? You
were saying that she had Guidance not to go that day, but she did, so
&hellip;
</div> 

So her behaviour &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
&hellip; the consequences &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; her subsequent behaviour was an expression of free will.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Right. The consequences of not taking the Guidance was the act of free
will, and therefore, whatever happened, happened.
</div> 

Yes. When free will, when independence, is acted out, that&rsquo;s the
useless journey which ultimately ends up in crucifixion.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Right.
</div> 

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And what you were talking about before when you are, let&rsquo;s say,
immersed in a project, in shopping, in cooking, if you are really
present and you were in the moment, isn&rsquo;t that when inspiration
occurs so that whatever you&rsquo;re doing becomes inspired?
</div> 

Indeed.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So you don&rsquo;t have to give anything up. This &hellip;

Well, I would like to add that the Holy Spirit turned it for me when I
was down on the floor with my arm over my head praying finally. And I
did hear my Guide say, &ldquo;Now&rsquo;s a good time to practice what
you heard last week in the meeting before.&rdquo; So I&rsquo;m saying
that things were turned in that moment but only because I recognized I
needed help.
</div> 

Right. That was when you abandoned free will. Yes, there&rsquo;s an
absolute Divine Order to Being, to Life. And I&rsquo;ve used the
illustration of a tapestry before, where there&rsquo;s a thread that
runs continuously from the beginning to the end of the carpet but it
only surfaces where it becomes part of the exquisiteness of the design
that the carpet is there to embody and express. And so if you are
listening to Guidance, if you are listening to be on the beam, to be in
the flow of fulfilment, you may, during the first quarter of next year,
find yourself at the store more frequently than you were the first
quarter of this year. And you may find that your engagement in your
crafts will be even more frequent than they were this year. And then in
the second quarter the thread may not come up to be seen at all.

Engaging in the activities is not for your personal satisfaction.
Engaging in the activities is to be in the flow of what God &hellip; the
infinite design of God that is unfolding.

And in the process of awakening, you come to a point of being willing to
appreciate which thread is up while it&rsquo;s up and not fussing about
the other color that isn&rsquo;t showing up and being in utter harmony
with the design of God. You&rsquo;ve got to be willing to allow for a
larger picture than your current mutually-agreed-upon definitions allow
you to see. And then you will have joy. And then you will have no
useless journeys. And you will have, you will provide no occasion for
the Holy Spirit to turn a part of a useless journey to your advantage.

Spend less time wondering, &ldquo;Am I doing the right thing or the
wrong thing? Is what I&rsquo;m doing willful or is it not
willful?&rdquo;, and be in that moment with what you are doing with the
desire to see God in it and to feel the Movement of God in it so that
you might be flowing perfectly with it. And when it&rsquo;s time to be
through, you will find yourself moved out into the next Movement of
Fulfilment.

The ego is all about measuring sticks. I used the word
&ldquo;infrastructure&rdquo; today, the mutually-agreed-upon definitions
which constitute rules, rules of perception. When you find yourself
consumed with various kinds of measuring sticks, realize that the call
is not for continuing to measure this against that, but to turn back to
that Place in you where you can feel the Movement and feel being on the
beam. Because your desire is to be in harmony with God. It is not your
desire to be right versus wrong. You see?

Okay &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Until then you are free to crucify yourself as often as you choose. This
is not the Gospel &hellip;
</div> 

It&rsquo;s no skin off my teeth. [audience laughter] But it&rsquo;s also
ultimately no skin off your teeth. It&rsquo;s a useless journey in which
nothing is accomplished and so no matter how many times you do it, not
even that is judgeable, not even that is wrong. Until then, you are
completely free to crucify yourself as often as you choose.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is not the Gospel I intended to offer you. We have another journey
to undertake, and if you will read these lessons carefully they will
help prepare you to undertake it.
</div> 

There you go. It&rsquo;s not the only journey there is. The freedom to
crucify yourself, the useless journey, is not the only choice you have.
And I&rsquo;m not here to talk about those journeys and I&rsquo;m not
here to teach you anything about them. I&rsquo;m not here to help you
evaluate them better and learn how to engage in them better and more
successfully. We have other work to do, you might say, in the Realm of
the Real, instead of the realm of fantasy, in the realm of each one of
you as the Christ behaving as though you are not and believing your
behavior.

I&rsquo;m here to talk to you and illuminate to you the Real One That
You Are that is using Its Presence poorly, and choosing to ignore the
fact that you&rsquo;re using it poorly so that then you seem to be the
victim of God knows what. Once you discover that all there is to the ego
is the Christ behaving as though he or she is not the Christ and
believing his or her behaviour, you will never be threatened by the ego
again. And that clarity will always keep in the foreground of your
awareness what the way out of your problems and illusions is. It&rsquo;s
a matter of being willing to re-member and re-acknowledge your
Christhood, together with the ego-insulting fact that the Christ is the
Expression of God deriving All That It Is from God. And therefore, the
Christ is not author. The Christ is that which glorifies God by
acknowledging nothing other than what God Is Being. And in glorifying
God, the Christ discovers Its Utter Amazing Infinite Character and
Nature and Beauty and Love because God and the Christ are One, and that
One is God.

Paul wonders why again this week I&rsquo;m going to say,
&ldquo;Wow!&rdquo; He assumes that the Truth is old hat to me. Truth is
always amazing. Truth is always that which arrests your attention and
focuses it on the Fullness of Meaning.

Don&rsquo;t worry. When you&rsquo;re awake, just because Truth, just
because Love, just because Harmony and Peace are as normal as apple pie
doesn&rsquo;t mean that they ever lose their awesomeness.

I love you all and I look forward to being with you next week.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Thank you.
</div> 

You are welcome.

[^1]: T4.In Introduction
[^2]: Students commenting or asking a question.

