---
title: Jul 13, 2003
ref: T4.1 Right Teaching and Right Learning
alink: "/acim/text/04/chap0401/"
---

Good afternoon. And good afternoon to everyone who is joining us on the
internet.

Today I will not be reading out of the first or second editions of the
Course, but will continue to read from the transcript of what I shared
with Helen and Bill which Bill typed up. I encourage you to read along,
and again, don&rsquo;t get hung up on the differences that you see.

The chapter we&rsquo;re on, the section we&rsquo;re on is called
&ldquo;Right Teaching and Right Learning.&rdquo; It helps in order to
understand right teaching, to know what wrong teaching is.

And so let&rsquo;s consider this: When the point came where each of you
decided, &ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;d rather see it my way. I&rsquo;d rather
define everything myself. I&rsquo;d like to play with the experience of
being an authorizer myself, all by myself.&rdquo;, at that moment, as
I&rsquo;ve said before, the first thing you noticed was that you were,
for lack of better words, small, tiny. I even used the word
&ldquo;piss-ant mortal,&rdquo; and that&rsquo;s not puissant,
that&rsquo;s p-i-s-s-a-n-t; not a water ant, not a sugar ant, not a red
ant but a piss-ant&mdash;a piss-ant nothing. That was the first thing
you noticed was that your bigness, your universality, your Infiniteness
was missing.

And what was the first thing you felt? Uneasy because it was unnatural
to the Divine One that you were. And a more accurate word for
&ldquo;uneasy&rdquo; was the word &ldquo;fear.&rdquo; You felt small, in
other words, incomplete, and it was a fearful experience. What
necessarily followed was that the only thing available for you to teach
was fear, because fear was expressed in every single thought and
utterance you had or made. What you necessarily had to teach everyone
else was quote &ldquo;make me whole&rdquo; unquote, because being the
Divine One that you are and not being able to abandon your Self
completely, you knew that was your Birthright and therefore your
fundamental need.

And so it became your task to create equity, if you will. And equity
could only be achieved by making others be responsible for your
wholeness, your ease, your comfort, your abundance. And so, naturally,
everything that followed became transactional. It became your lifelong
task to see to it that others made you comfortable, happy, successful,
abundant, whole.

Now, the simple fact is that only those others that you could reach in
this way were those who likewise had decided to look at things in their
own way. And so they made the same demands of you. And so everyone
joined together in finding ways to hopefully bring about the greatest
amount of equity without &hellip; [laugh] without losing even more than
you had lost by virtue of abandoning the Father. And that&rsquo;s why
existence is a struggle.

But I&rsquo;m bringing this up because at the bottom line what all of
you are teaching, if you are not in a process of awakening, is
transactional.  Getting for getting, or getting for giving. I give you
this, you give me that, and what you must give me must be equal to what
I think I am losing if I give you something.

Of course, fear does many things. It causes a sense of paranoia. It
causes there to be lack of confidence, even though there might be
justification for confidence. And so there is distrust. And as a result
of distrust coupled with fear, one tends to, if he can get away with it,
take advantage of his brother or sister and get more than the apparent
cost of the loss of what is being extended to that brother or sister.
And so everything becomes quite muddy.

Mind you, this doesn&rsquo;t just apply to money. It applies to the
sharing or extension of Love, the sharing or extension of trust. It
applies to human relationships. It truly finds its way into every corner
of life experience. And this isn&rsquo;t right teaching. And the
learning that occurs isn&rsquo;t right learning. The teaching and the
learning accomplish one thing: the reinforcement of the human condition.
The reinforcement of the empty experience of not being connected with
one&rsquo;s Source, of not be fully consciously aware of What You Truly
Are. It&rsquo;s the result of abandoning the Place of Excellence in You
and then imagining that you haven&rsquo;t abandoned it. It&rsquo;s
miserable.

And what&rsquo;s the way out? The way out is to shift from getting to
giving.  And to give from that Place of Excellence in You that up to
this point you have chosen to block out of your mind, because, of
course, you have more important things to do, like survive in this
miserable experience and make something wonderful out of it all by
yourself, which is impossible.

Right learning is never a matter of finding a way to be alone, separate
from your Source, and experience fulfillment. It is not a matter of
improving the human condition without ever discovering that what
you&rsquo;re calling the human condition is the Divine State of Being
which you are blocking from your experience.

Now if fear and wrong teaching is coloring your every perception and
therefore causes misperception to creep into every corner of your life,
then obviously, if the shift from getting to giving is going to occur,
then the attitude of gifting is going to have to reach every single
itty-bitty corner of your life. The willingness to extend Love and
consideration and genuine caring will have to extend to the smallest
insect, the most poisonous insect, the most ferocious beast, the plants,
the trees, the clod of dirt, the rock, your Brother and your Sister, and
yourself.

In other words, it&rsquo;s not complicated. You&rsquo;re either doing
one of two things. You&rsquo;re either in a state of fear engaged in
getting, or you&rsquo;re in a state of Peace engaged in giving, behaving
in a way always that makes your Brother whole, that makes your plants
whole, that makes your world whole, that makes your business
transactions identify your wholeness and the wholeness of another,
without for a moment indulging in getting. Because you&rsquo;re willing
to embrace as a fact the divine Truth that Wholeness is the nature of
your Being because it&rsquo;s the Father&rsquo;s good pleasure to give
you it all, the Kingdom. That&rsquo;s your Birthright.

Because this is not your habit, it&rsquo;s something that you must use
some self-discipline for. And you must practice it on purpose in order
for it to be a conscious experience for you, which, as time goes,
accumulates for you a background, a history, if you will, of conscious
experience of engaging in making your Brother, your Sister and your
world whole until it becomes second nature to you. Because, you see, as
this habit begins to replace the old habit of getting, you begin to
remember, &ldquo;Ah. This is what&rsquo;s normal. This is my Birthright.
This is my Being. This is what I&rsquo;m all about.&rdquo; And when that
light bulb goes on in your awareness, it stops being a disciplined
practice and it just becomes you being yourself in an entirely new way
from an entirely new place.

But you won&rsquo;t get to that new place if you don&rsquo;t begin to
consciously practice what, to you at the moment, seems to be unnatural.
And to practice it with discipline, to practice it with commitment, and
to be alert for the places where you are either bargaining for another to
provide you with your wholeness, or you are dealing with another in a
manner that gets more than the situation is worth and leaves your
Brother at a disadvantage.

It feels risky when you&rsquo;re coming from the place where your coming
to not leverage your well-being from your Brothers and your Sisters and
your world. &ldquo;Oh, we need fossil fuel so that we can drive our
cars.&rdquo; And so it justifies raping the land and being unwise in the
use of its resources. And you create imbalance. You leave everything
less than whole. You leave things depleted because there wasn&rsquo;t
enough Love to give the attention needed to see that your behavior
didn&rsquo;t cost the earth, or you, or anyone else, anything. Thus
leaving everyone in a position to continue with ease to experience
natural abundance. You see.

Fear, fear is the lesson that you all need to stop teaching. And Love is
the lesson that you all need to start BEing. I didn&rsquo;t say loving,
being loving is the lesson you need to start teaching, because being
loving is a behavior. It is time for you to BE Love. And in order for
you to BE LOVE, you have to turn your front toward the Altar instead of
your back, and you need to inquire from a source other than all of the
mutually-agreed-upon definitions that you and everyone have securely
established. But remember this: To the degree that fear has been the
reason for your actions, then your actions will confirm their source
which is fear.

And I know, in many ways, all of you say, &ldquo;Well, I&rsquo;m not
that uncomfortable. You know, things could be better but I&rsquo;m not
so uncomfortable that I really think I need to be as radical as
you&rsquo;re talking about and shift from securing my best interests
from my Brother and my world, and instead shift to extending my
Brother&rsquo;s and Sister&rsquo;s and world&rsquo;s best interests to
them, and let that be first. Because that&rsquo;s the way I move out of
fear. That&rsquo;s the way I re-access my experience of What I Divinely
Am. And that&rsquo;s the way I wake up from the whole illusion of lack,
tininess, of being solitary, isolated and alone and lonely, constantly
trying to overcome that loneliness. No, things aren&rsquo;t that bad for
me to go to that extreme.&rdquo;

The simple fact is there is a different way to be than the way you are
being. And I am here to talk with you about that different way of being.
And not to confirm the way you have been being. And, indeed, that is
what the Course is here to illuminate as well. But the whole reason of
illuminating it is so that you might come to a place where within
yourself you decide to behave in a different way. Not think in a
different way in the privateness of your mind, but to be in the world,
with the world, and with your Brothers and Sisters in a new way that
doesn&rsquo;t always secure your safety, but one which has as its motive
to secure your Brother&rsquo;s safety.

Because whatever you do to your Brother, you do to yourself. Whatever
you extend to your Brother, you are embraced by. Because you are what
you be. And you can&rsquo;t be anything all by yourself. You&rsquo;ve
tried that.  You&rsquo;ve been there, done that, but you haven&rsquo;t
stopped yet. You see. I want you all to arrive at the point where you
can say, &ldquo;Ah, been there, done that. It&rsquo;s out of my life. I
know I don&rsquo;t need to do that any more.&rdquo;

Okay. We&rsquo;ll go to the book.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God is NOT the author of fear. YOU are. You have chosen, therefore, to
create unlike Him, and you have made fear for yourselves. You are not at
peace because you are not fulfilling your function.[^1]
</div> 

That&rsquo;s all. You&rsquo;re at odds with yourself. It isn&rsquo;t
that you&rsquo;re not at peace because you&rsquo;ve been disobedient and
there&rsquo;s threat of punishment.  The moment you act at odds with
yourself, you try to do the impossible and it&rsquo;s uncomfortable, but
it&rsquo;s not a punishment. As I&rsquo;ve said before, it&rsquo;s just
your innate capital &ldquo;S&rdquo; Sanity providing you with the
experience that you&rsquo;re attempting to do the impossible and
there&rsquo;s no fulfillment in it.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God gave you a very lofty responsibility which you are not meeting.
</div> 

Well, don&rsquo;t let that overwhelm you. Your lofty responsibility is
to be the Presence of Love which you are. He didn&rsquo;t give you
piss-ant little egos a lofty responsibility. He didn&rsquo;t give who
you think you are a lofty responsibility. And don&rsquo;t worry, who you
think you are is not going to have to fulfill that lofty responsibility
because you haven&rsquo;t for a moment been who you think you are. Who
You Divinely Are has a natural spontaneous inclination and impulse to be
the fullest that you can be from that Place of Excellence in You. And
that&rsquo;s utterly natural.  And yes, it can be called a lofty
responsibility. God gave you a very lofty responsibility which you are
not meeting.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You KNOW this, and you are afraid. In fact, your egos have chosen to be
afraid INSTEAD of meeting it.
</div> 

You see. &ldquo;Well, I&rsquo;m not really that uncomfortable. I&rsquo;m
not so uncomfortable that I would choose to do this radical thing that
you&rsquo;re talking about.&rdquo; You see, your egos have chosen to be
afraid instead of meeting it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you awaken, you will not be able to understand this because it is
literally incredible.
</div> 

But another thing is that not only will you not be able to understand
it, you won&rsquo;t give it a second thought, because you will be so
fully engaged in the Joy of reflecting God and letting God be all there
is of you so that every single act, every single intent you have, is a
universal blessing that illuminates universally. That&rsquo;s where you
will be. That&rsquo;s what you will be experiencing. And you won&rsquo;t
even be trying to understand how on earth it is you could have looked at
things the way you did before.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
DO NOT BELIEVE THE INCREDIBLE NOW. Any attempt to increase its
believableness is merely to postpone the inevitable.

The word "inevitable" is fearful to the ego, but joyous to the Soul. God
IS inevitable&hellip;
</div> 

And I&rsquo;ll say, the Son of God knowing that he&rsquo;s the Son or
Daughter of God, is inevitable.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God IS inevitable, and you CANNOT avoid Him any more than He can avoid
YOU.
</div> 

And this is me. You can only imagine that you can avoid God, or abandon
God, or steal His Authority away from Him and express your own.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego is afraid of the Soul's joy because, once you have experienced
it, you will withdraw all protection from the ego, and become totally
without the investment in fear.
</div> 

I want to tell you something. When you decide to shift from getting to
giving, to having your Brother demonstrate your wholeness for you to you
and it is your pleasure to make him whole, not because that&rsquo;s what
he wants, but because there&rsquo;s nothing more satisfying to do, it
will bring up your fear of being vulnerable because you will be
abandoning your practice of self- protection. But, if you will persist
in caring enough to see to it that you never leave your Brother at a
disadvantage, you will begin to experience peace because the peace
you&rsquo;re giving your Brother by not demanding from him what he
cannot truly give you is the peace you become enveloped by.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your investment &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; in fear &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is great now because fear is a witness to the separation, and
your ego rejoices when you witness to it. Leave it behind! Do not listen
to it, and do not preserve it.
</div> 

And this is where the self-discipline comes in. When the tendency is
there to jew your Brother down on a deal, or take advantage of him on a
deal, or to just engage in the deal to preserve your wholeness or to
substantiate what you think you need to have in order to feel
secure&hellip;

(PAUL: Sorry. I lost it.)

You will find yourself encircled by, embraced by, and imbued with the
conscious experience of your invulnerability and your safety. Why?
Because you gave it away to another.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Listen only to God&hellip;
</div> 

And that can mean something as simple as listening for the impulse to be
Love. Listen to the impulse to come from the Place of Excellence in You.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Listen only to God, Who is as incapable of deception as are the Souls He
created.
</div> 

All of you are actually incapable of deception. And the you that you
think you are that is capable of deception is purely imaginary. And the
brothers or sisters you see that you believe are capable of deception
are purely imaginary. Because neither you nor they have the capacity to
be independent of your Source and so you haven&rsquo;t accomplished it.

And once you get this point that none of you have accomplished being
sinners, you will understand why all of you in an instant can be
exonerated and healed of any of the effects of deception that you think
you either brought on someone else or that someone else brought on you.
You have got to be open to the experience of instantaneous correction of
anything that you have seen that has been to your disadvantage or
injury. Because if you don&rsquo;t believe that there can be
instantaneous correction for no good reason, not because justice has
been served, not because a penalty had been paid, but just because it
isn&rsquo;t the Truth of you or your Brother, until you see that, you
will continue to justify extracting a tooth for a tooth and an eye for
an eye. Get. Get. Get.  Make your Brother responsible for your
wholeness.

This is an axiom. And I&rsquo;m continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Release yourselves and release others.
</div> 

If you release yourself, you release others. If you release others
truly, you release yourself. And until you release each other from your
mutually-agreed-upon definitions and your mutual agreements, you will
not remember your wholeness and re-access your wholeness and will
unnecessarily remain bound in the dream.

Again, continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Release yourselves and release others. Do not present a false and
unworthy picture of yourself to others, and do not accept such a picture
of them yourselves.
</div> 

See this is where a good teacher comes into play, because a good teacher
is not only concerned with what he has to teach, but finds the student
worthy and capable of embracing and embodying what&rsquo;s being taught.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego has built a shabby and unsheltering home for you because it
cannot build otherwise.
</div> 

And let&rsquo;s remember that what this really means is that the Christ
that you are, the Divine One that you are, who has chosen to express
autonomy, has built a shabby and unsheltering home for yourself because
that&rsquo;s really the only thing you can do in a state of fear and in
a sense of piss-ant tininess.

So, when it says the ego has built a shabby and unsheltering home for
you, don&rsquo;t sit there self-righteously and say, &ldquo;Yeah, my ego
really doesn&rsquo;t like me. Yeah, my ego really is a bad guy.&rdquo;
Well, that&rsquo;s a way of disowning your authority. You&rsquo;re doing
it and you&rsquo;re saying, &ldquo;I&rsquo;m not doing it.&rdquo; And
you convinced yourself you&rsquo;re not doing it. And you ultimately
succeed, or think that you succeed, in saying that you&rsquo;re not
doing it by saying, &ldquo;I&rsquo;m not the Christ. I&rsquo;m not Holy.
I&rsquo;m just a human being. I&rsquo;m a human being with a brain in my
head with synapses and electrical currents. And what comes out of
one&rsquo;s brain is an ego. All of the psychologists will tell me that.
Oh, there are studies for years to tell me that I&rsquo;m an ego.&rdquo;
You know...

So then, something comes along like metaphysics or the Course, and it
says that you are not your ego. Oh. That&rsquo;s even better. Now you
can really be mad at your ego. &ldquo;Oh, my ego did this. My ego did
that. Damn my ego.&rdquo; But you&rsquo;re still caught because you
still have neglected to own Who You Are. You still are reluctant to say,
&ldquo;I am the Christ.&rdquo; And you&rsquo;re still reluctant to be
out from that Place of Excellence in You which is your Christhood. And
you still insist on operating on a get-get basis. You still continue to
operate as though it&rsquo;s your Brother&rsquo;s responsibility to
demonstrate your wholeness for you.

And so now, you&rsquo;re even more confused than ever. And your ego
infrastructures have gotten even more complex because now there&rsquo;s
you and your ego.

But you know what? It isn&rsquo;t You, the Christ yet. It isn&rsquo;t
You, the One capable of utter, unsurpassable Excellence. &ldquo;Oh,
yeah. Well, things aren&rsquo;t that rough yet. I can exist a little bit
longer without going that far.&rdquo; You see? And so your ego continues
to build, or you continue as an unacknowledged Christ that has to be
then an acknowledged ego has built, a shabby and unsheltering home for
you because it cannot build otherwise and things aren&rsquo;t tough
enough yet for you to change.&rdquo; Tsk.  Tsk. Hmm dear.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Do not try to make this impoverished house stand.
</div> 

Give it up! [Aside:] That isn&rsquo;t what it says here [meaning in the
book].

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Do not try to make this impoverished house stand. ITS weakness is YOUR
strength.
</div> 

And that might be more clearly understood if we reverse it. Your
strength, your Divine strength is its weakness.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Only God could make a home that is worthy of His creations, who have
chosen to leave it empty by their own dispossession.
</div> 

But the Home is still there. The Altar is still in the center of you.
Your capacity to turn around toward that Place of Excellence to learn of
the Father what the Truth is about everything because your Father is
You, your Right Mind. Only that. That is all it takes. And only that is
what it takes to repossess your Home.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet His &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; God&rsquo;s &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; home will stand forever&hellip;
</div> 

Because it&rsquo;s&mdash;this is me&mdash;because it&rsquo;s your very
Being.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and is ready for you when you choose to enter it.
</div> 

Which means when you are ready to readmit to yourself that you&rsquo;re
the Christ. That You are a Place of Excellence Being Excellent because
you have no other real capacity.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Of this you can be wholly certain. God is as incapable of creating the
perishable as the ego is of making the eternal.
</div> 

That&rsquo;s how diametrically opposed things are. That&rsquo;s how
black and white things are. And ultimately, the blackness and whiteness
of it is that everything is either Real or unreal. And there ain&rsquo;t
no in-between.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Of your egos you can do nothing to save yourselves or others, but of
your Souls you can do everything for the salvation of both. Humility is
a lesson for the ego, NOT for the Soul. The Soul is beyond humility
because it recognizes its radiance&hellip;
</div> 

It doesn&rsquo;t block it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and gladly sheds its light everywhere.
</div> 

Now the Soul doesn&rsquo;t prance around the Universe saying, &ldquo;Oh!
Glory, glory! I&rsquo;m spreading my Light everywhere and blessing
everyone. Oh, glory, glory! Isn&rsquo;t this a wonderful experience!
Ohhh! Bliss, bliss, bliss, bliss, bliss!&rdquo; You see.

The Soul is Light. Illumination is spontaneous, inevitable. It
doesn&rsquo;t spread Its Light for a purpose&mdash;to get, get, get. It
doesn&rsquo;t be illumination for everyone&rsquo;s benefit, or to make
them happy so they&rsquo;ll be nice to the Soul that&rsquo;s spreading
the Light.

The Soul is beyond humility because It recognizes Its Radiance, It
recognizes Its Self in the Radiance, and gladly sheds Its Light
everywhere. A better way than saying, &ldquo;gladly sheds Its Light
everywhere,&rdquo; is that It finds absolutely no justification for
withholding it. In that sense, It gladly sheds Its Light. It
doesn&rsquo;t even consider a possibility that there might be some
corner of Infinity of the Universe that it might withhold Its Light,
that It might withhold Itself.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The meek shall inherit the earth because their egos are humble, and this
gives them better perception.
</div> 

Well, humility is embodied in the abandoning of the determination to
say, &ldquo;Father, I would rather see things my way,&rdquo; and turning
back toward the Altar. And naturally if you&rsquo;re turning back to
where the Truth lies to be seen, you&rsquo;re going to have better
perception, aren&rsquo;t you? Because you&rsquo;re going to be seeing
Truth more clearly. You&rsquo;re going to be having the experience of
what it is. And you&rsquo;re also going to be having the clearer not
understanding or knowledge of Love, but the experience of being that
point where Love bubbles forth into expression, again spontaneously and
without a justification.

When you&rsquo;re not looking at something, you can&rsquo;t see it. When
you are looking at it, you can. And so the meek shall inherit the earth
because their egos are humble, willing to look where they can see. And
what? The inevitable happens. This gives them better perception. Simple.
Uncomplicated.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Kingdom of Heaven is the RIGHT of the Soul, whose beauty and dignity
are far beyond doubt, beyond perception, and stand forever as the mark
of the Love of God for His creations&hellip;
</div> 

In other words, that Place of Excellence in You is the mark of the Love
of God for You, for His Creations.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; who are wholly worthy of Him and ONLY of Him. Nothing else is
sufficiently worthy to be a gift for a creation of God Himself.
</div> 

So the gifts of fear that you&rsquo;re all giving each other out of
habit and out of self-preservation is unworthy. It&rsquo;s an unworthy
gift for a Creation of God&mdash;meaning You&mdash;and each other.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I will substitute for your ego &hellip;
</div> 

That is if you want a substitute. &ldquo;Oh, I know, things aren&rsquo;t
tough enough yet. Things are going along fairly well. I know, I
don&rsquo;t need you to substitute yet, but hey Jesus, I&rsquo;ll call on
ya. I&rsquo;m sure I&rsquo;ll call on ya if the goin&rsquo; gets really
rough. But, hey. Right now I don&rsquo;t wanna rock the boat. Okay? But
I hear ya.&rdquo;

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I will substitute for your ego if you wish, but NEVER for your Soul. A
father can safely leave a child with an elder brother who has shown
himself responsible, but this involves no confusion about the child's
origin.
</div> 

Meaning the one left in the older brother&rsquo;s care.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The brother &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; the older brother &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; can protect the child's body and his ego, which are VERY
closely related, but he does not confuse HIMSELF with the father
&hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; of the child &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; because he does this, although the child may.
</div> 

The child may, while he&rsquo;s in the older brother&rsquo;s care, look
upon his older brother the same as he looks upon his Father.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I can be entrusted with your body and your ego simply because this
enables you NOT to be concerned with them, and lets ME teach you their
unimportance.
</div> 

That&rsquo;s why I&rsquo;m here for you. That&rsquo;s why your Guides
are here for you.  That&rsquo;s why the whole Brotherhood that is awake
is present for you on your behalf so that you might set aside the habit
of engaging the ego infrastructures, the mutually-agreed-upon
definitions, and the fear that if you don&rsquo;t, you will die. So that
you might be with Me consciously and experience a stable and continuous
relationship that at the least demonstrates to you experientially that
you&rsquo;re safe no matter what your ego definitions are, or what your
ego fears are.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I could not understand their importance to YOU if I had not once been
tempted to believe in them myself.
</div> 

Well, you know what? It really is helpful if you believe that I really
do exist and that I&rsquo;m not just a figurehead of a major religion.
And it really does help if in addition to believing that I exist, you
are willing to believe that I&rsquo;m available to you directly in your
mind, and that it&rsquo;s my desire to commune with you directly, to
have a direct relationship with you. So that if you wish, you may shift
your allegiance, ever increasingly hopefully, from your ego to Me, so
that I might let you lean upon Me, so that you might get the feel of the
Movement of Being from a different vantage point than the one
you&rsquo;ve been engaged in, which has been one of fear and
self-protection.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Let us undertake to learn this lesson together, so we can be free of
them together. I need devoted teachers who share my aim of healing the
mind.
</div> 

I need devoted teachers, teachers of right teaching and right learning.
I need teachers who are going to teach by BEING LOVE rather than
teaching fear.

Now, another way of saying it that will put it more clearly is that I
need devoted Be-ers. I need those who are willing to come from that
Place of Excellence within themselves, in the beginning with Me so that
you might get the feel for coming from that Place of Excellence in You,
because this allows you to be the Presence of Love, the embodiment of
the Father&rsquo;s Will that constitutes the Light that illumines every
little itty-bitty corner of life.

I need Teachers of Truth rather than teachers of illusion. But I
don&rsquo;t need a concept of teachers. I don&rsquo;t need someone being
a teacher. The word &ldquo;teacher&rdquo; is not the designator of a
position. Truly, a teacher is one who is simply Being with Excellence as
a Brother to his Brothers and Sisters, as a Sister to her Brothers and
Sisters, as that which is inseparable from the earth, the plants, the
birds, the universe, as something that has as its conscious intent the
desire to make and keep everything in his experience whole because
everything in his experience is worthy of it.

A teacher is one who is willing to extend Love, Truth, rather than fear
and illusion.

I need you to be Who You Really Are. Why? Because that&rsquo;s the way
you wake up. And when you wake up, the Brotherhood is more consciously
whole because there isn&rsquo;t some part of the Brotherhood having
committed themselves to fitful dreams and who are therefore not present
with us, not joying their Birthright, and in effect, disallowing us from
experiencing them as part of the wholeness of us as a conscious
experience.

Don&rsquo;t get hung up on the word &ldquo;teachers.&rdquo; I need
devoted Be-ers of Love who share my aim of healing the mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Soul &hellip;
</div> 

Meaning your Soul.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is far beyond the need of your protection OR mine. Remember
this:

&ldquo;In this world you NEED not have tribulation BECAUSE I have
overcome the world.&rdquo;

THAT is why you should be of good cheer.
</div> 

You know what? All of you are pretty confident that&rsquo;s it&rsquo;s
impossible to levitate. Somebody says, &ldquo;Levitate.&rdquo; You say,
&ldquo;I can&rsquo;t levitate. I can&rsquo;t levitate. Levitation is
impossible. I&rsquo;ve heard it, but you know how rumors are and stories
go, you know. I don&rsquo;t believe it&rsquo;s possible. I can&rsquo;t
do it!&rdquo; But the moment somebody, one or someone of your friends
does it, you&rsquo;re going to say, &ldquo;Well, if he can do it, I can
do it, because he&rsquo;s not someone special.&rdquo; As soon as someone
does the impossible, you know it&rsquo;s possible for you and you will
embrace the possibility and you will accomplish the possibility.

So, it is helpful for you to know that I have stood exactly where you
are with the same temptations to be teachers of fear, and to be in the
get-get position, and to make others demonstrate my wholeness to me, and
make sure that I&rsquo;m not shortchanged, and that equity prevails.
I&rsquo;ve been there. That whole perspective I moved out of.

Now, if you dare for a moment to think that I exist, that I really
exist, and that I&rsquo;m available to you, and then you acknowledge or
are willing to believe that I&rsquo;ve been exactly where you are and
know exactly how you&rsquo;re feeling, and that I&rsquo;m no longer in
that place, then you have a justification for saying, &ldquo;Well, if he
did it, I can do it. Not only that, he did it and he says that
it&rsquo;s now his function to stand with me as I do that and help
me.&rdquo;

And again, the last sentence in this section:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
THAT is why you should be of good cheer.
</div> 

And you want to know something? I&rsquo;m not the only one standing with
you in this way.

And let me review with these words: Don&rsquo;t wait until it really
gets tough before you say, &ldquo;Hey, I&rsquo;m willing to take a look
at this radical way of being that Raj is talking about.&rdquo; Do it
while you&rsquo;re not under stress. And then don&rsquo;t believe
yourself when you say, &ldquo;It&rsquo;s not really that bad yet.&rdquo;
Don&rsquo;t believe yourself when you say that. Because it can be a
Heaven of a lot better.

I love you. Talk to me this week. Talk to me tonight. Don&rsquo;t call
Paul on the phone to talk to me. Sit down and shut up and say,
&ldquo;Raj,&rdquo; and wait for Me to respond. Feel for My response. And
keep persisting because it&rsquo;s inevitable that we will connect.
It&rsquo;s unavoidable because I love you, because I am Love, and
because my only function is to extend it, to embrace you in it, and to
illuminate the experience of it in you so that it&rsquo;s not just a
nice thought.

And if I love you this way, God loves you this way because I am
expressing the Father. And not great little Jesus prancing around
outside his Father&rsquo;s House saying, &ldquo;Oh, I love you. I love
you. I love you. Oh, it&rsquo;s my purpose to love you and love you and
love you.&rdquo; No. I am Love. And I&rsquo;m not outside my
Father&rsquo;s House. And the Love with which I love you is the Love the
Father is embracing and embodying, embracing you with and embodying as
you, and I am conveying to you that fact so that you might dare to
abandon your commitment to fear and self-defense that keeps you locked
in the dream.

Again I love you, and I look forward to being with you next week.

[^1]: T4.1 Right Teaching and Right Learning

