---
title: Jul 27, 2003
ref: "T4.2 The Ego and False Autonomy"
alink: "/acim/text/04/chap0402/"
---

Good afternoon. And good afternoon to everyone who is joining us on the
internet as well. [dog barking loudly in distance] And our neighbor dog
welcomes everyone. [audience laughter]

The big question that all of you have that plagues you throughout your
life is, &ldquo;Who am I?&rdquo; And the second biggest question is
&ldquo;What am I?&rdquo; And the third question is, &ldquo;Why am I
here?&rdquo;

It should be becoming obvious to you why you have these questions. The
simple fact is that if you have denied your Father, if you have denied
your Source, you have denied that which gives you your Identity.
Isn&rsquo;t that simple? And so of course you&rsquo;re going to say,
&ldquo;Who am I?&rdquo;

The minute you said, &ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;d rather see it my
way,&rdquo; and you dissociated yourself from your Father, you
dissociated yourself from the Experience of Who You Are. And so
everything that has followed that decision has occurred to one who has
no identity, he doesn&rsquo;t know who he is, doesn&rsquo;t know what he
is, and doesn&rsquo;t know why he is where he finds himself.

Many, many, many of you have the feeling of being a stranger in a
strange land. You feel like you don&rsquo;t really belong here. But when
you say you don&rsquo;t belong here, you mean in the world, in this life
experience that&rsquo;s going on all around you. When the real place
that you are, and I use the word &ldquo;real&rdquo; loosely, when the
real place you are is in the middle of the definitions you have given to
everything you&rsquo;re experiencing and the definition you have given
yourself.

You are a stranger in a strange land. It&rsquo;s the land of nod.
It&rsquo;s the land of imagination. It&rsquo;s the made-up world and the
made-up self. And instinctively you know that such an experience of
ignorance is not natural to you. And yet you persist endlessly trying to
find the answer to the question, &ldquo;Who am I?&rdquo; And you try to
find the answer by refining your definitions, refining your definition
of who you are and trying to improve it and trying to convince others of
it so that they can give support to your newer and better belief about
who you are, without realizing that the answer to the question lies in
abandoning your definitions and reaching out to your Source again and
connecting with your Source so that your Sonship, your Daughtership, can
register with you once again. And in registering with you, providing you
with the Experience of your Identity so that there&rsquo;s no question
about Who You Are or What You Are.

Isn&rsquo;t that simple? It really is that simple.

Okay. I will start reading.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Soul in its knowledge &hellip; [^1]
</div> 

Or as I&rsquo;ve said before Knowing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is unaware of the ego.
</div> 

Who you really are is unaware of who you think you are. It&rsquo;s like
when you go to bed at night and you have a dream. You in the bed, the
one and only real you, we&rsquo;ll say, has no knowledge of a you, you
are experiencing in the context of a fantasy, a dream. You are lying
there, breathing deeply, relaxed, getting rest.

So, again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Soul in its knowledge is unaware of the ego. It does not attack it;
it merely cannot conceive of it at all. While the ego is equally unaware
of the Soul, it DOES perceive itself as rejected by
&ldquo;something&rdquo; which is greater than itself. This is why
self-esteem in ego terms MUST be a delusion. The creations of God do not
create myths, although the creative efforts of man CAN turn to
mythology.
</div> 

Or fantasy.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It can do so, however, only under one condition; what man then makes is
no longer creative.
</div> 

And what&rsquo;s the one condition? It can only happen under the
condition that you have denied your Source and you have taken on the
role of authorizer of the meaning of things, the definition of things.
The only thing is that whatever you think you&rsquo;re doing when you
have dissociated yourself from your Source, accomplishes absolutely
nothing.

When you have a dream at night and you plant a garden and water it and
it grows and you pick a flower, has a garden gotten watered? Has a
flower grown? Could you have picked that flower? No, nothing has
happened except as, let us say, an imaginative film strip.

I&rsquo;m continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Myths are entirely perceptions&hellip;
</div> 

Not knowledge, not knowing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and are so ambiguous in form and so characteristically good and
evil in nature that the most benevolent of them is not without fearful
components, if only by innuendo.
</div> 

If only by innuendo. Hmm. Well, let&rsquo;s put that into perspective.
How many of you have awakened in the morning and before you move a
muscle, you feel guilty. Not for any reason, but it&rsquo;s just there.
That&rsquo;s by innuendo. It&rsquo;s just a feeling that&rsquo;s there
for no apparent reason.

Now it&rsquo;s important to pay attention to these feelings. The feeling
of being guilty for no good reason, for no reason at all, the feeling of
not knowing Who You Are, the feeling of not knowing What You Are, and
the feeling of not knowing why you exist or why you&rsquo;re here, these
are clues. They&rsquo;re very helpful clues. They are your innate
capital &ldquo;S&rdquo; Sanity, the Sanity of the Divine One That You
Are penetrating this dream, this fantasy you have created out of
applying new definitions to the Kingdom of Heaven and the Son of God or
Daughter of God That You Are. It&rsquo;s your Sanity penetrating your
dream reminding you that you&rsquo;re attempting to do something you
cannot really do and to abandon the project. You see?

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Myths and magic are closely associated in that myths are usually related
to the ego origins, and magic to the powers which the ego ascribes to
itself. Every mythological system includes some account of &ldquo;the
creation,&rdquo; and associates this with its particular perception of
magic. The &ldquo;battle for survival&rdquo; &hellip;
</div>

Which is a bit of magic because it expresses a capacity you think you
have to survive this hostile environment you find yourself in.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is nothing more than the ego's struggle to preserve itself
&hellip;
</div> 

And I&rsquo;m interjecting here. Its struggle to preserve itself not in
the hostile environment, but to preserve itself because it isn&rsquo;t
real in the first place and in order for it to seem to have persistence,
its existence must be defended, reinforced.

Repeating &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The &ldquo;battle for survival&rdquo; is nothing more than the ego's
struggle to preserve itself and its interpretation of its own beginning.
This beginning is always associated with physical birth&hellip;
</div> 

And I&rsquo;m going to interject here. This beginning is always
associated with physical birth. It&rsquo;s never associated with your
having said, &ldquo;Father, I am not going to pay any attention to the
way You Are Being Things. I am going to give everything new definitions
of my choosing so that I can enjoy being the authorizer of
something.&rdquo; So this beginning is never associated with what really
started it all.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This beginning is always associated with physical birth, because no-one
maintains that the ego existed before that point in time. The
religiously ego-oriented believe that the Soul existed before and will
continue to exist afterwards, after a temporary lapse in ego life. Some
actually believe that the Soul will be punished for this lapse, even
though in reality, it could not possibly know anything about it.
</div> 

That&rsquo;s like saying that when you go to sleep at night and have a
dream and have a lapse of true self-awareness, that when you wake up in
the morning you&rsquo;re likely to be punished for having had this lapse
of true self-awareness and perhaps having an enjoyable fantasy.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The term &ldquo;salvation&rdquo; does NOT apply to the Soul, which is
not in danger, and does not need to be salvaged.
</div> 

Interesting word &ldquo;salvaged.&rdquo; Salvation sounds so wonderful,
but salvaged sounds like cutting torches and metal and, you know,
tearing apart damaged ships and reducing them to their lowest common
denominator and melting them down, et cetera. Something that occurs in a
shipyard.

So what does salvation refer to when you think of it? You usually think
of it as the salvation of who you think you are, that you will come into
the experience of your salvation. But it&rsquo;s very important, as I
keep reiterating, to remember that right at this very moment in spite of
your imaginative definitions and your distorted experience of Reality,
You Are The Presence of God, You Are God Self-Expressed, and you have
never for an instant stopped being that. It does not require salvation.
And the ego will never ever be able to experience salvation because
it&rsquo;s just an imagination. So your task is not to improve your ego,
but to abandon it so that there can be a return to the direct Experience
of What and Who You Divinely Are Which Is The Expression of God, the Son
or Daughter of God, for lack of better words, Effect of a Source.

Well, that sounds very dangerous to the ego to be an effect only. Tsk
tsk tsk. That&rsquo;s very insulting because of course part of your ego
definition of yourself is that you have authority, that you can act and
have a result to your acts that gives you notoriety, either good or bad,
that creates for you in the world an identity that is respected or
disrespected. But to be the effect only of something else, why that
means you&rsquo;re a robot, that means you&rsquo;re a puppet.

But you know what? You are the Effect, the Manifestation of the Movement
of Love. You are the Embodiment of Intelligence. You are the
Manifestation, the Visibility and Tangibility of Life. You are the
Presence of God. And that is not nothing. And that would only appear to
be a state of puppethood to one who imagines that there is a way to be
separate from one&rsquo;s Source. And so it conceives that if
you&rsquo;re going to abandon being a puppet with no strings, in other
words seeming to be able to be a self-authorized and active puppet, that
instead of that you&rsquo;re going to become the inanimate, lifeless,
collection of wood parts at the end of strings that something alive is
going to manipulate. It still sees the possibility of the truth in terms
of separateness. Either a puppet with no strings or a puppet with
strings.

But when you acknowledge that you have a Source and you&rsquo;re not It,
and you&rsquo;re willing to become defenseless against the Experience of
that Source, you find out that that Source is the Father and that tells
you immediately Who You Are, the Son or the Daughter, and now you have
the Experience of Identity, True Identity. And then you find that the
mind that you have been using to have imaginations and the mind that
you&rsquo;ve been using to give your full attention and commitment to
those definitions, rather than the mind that you are that&rsquo;s having
the definitions…

You find that this Mind that was having the definitions was what was
Real about you and that this Mind that you thought was your private mind
is the capital &ldquo;M&rdquo; Mind that is God without any privateness
to It embracing All of the Infinity of What God Is Being. And so your
Experience of Mind is enhanced totally. And you find that You and God
are One. And that One is God. It&rsquo;s that simple.

And there is no divine puppet at the end of strings that God is
manipulating. Your Mind and the Mind of God are One. Your Soul is the
Soul that is God. Soul is Mind&rsquo;s Capacity to Feel the Meaning of
All of Creation.

You don&rsquo;t have a Soul. From a separated standpoint that is the way
you would interpret it, that you do have a soul, but the Truth is that
You Are Soul. You Are, you might say, God&rsquo;s Capacity to Feel the
Meaning of Creation, the Movement of Creation Infinitely. That&rsquo;s
not an experience of puppethood. That&rsquo;s an Experience of Oneness
with God.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The term &ldquo;salvation&rdquo; does NOT apply to the Soul, which is
not in danger, and does not need to be salvaged. Salvation is nothing
more than &ldquo;right-mindedness,&rdquo; which is not the
One-Mindedness of the Soul, but which must be accomplished before
One-Mindedness can be restored.
</div> 

Very simply you in your separate sense of yourself must arrive at a
point where you will give deference to God, reaching outside of your
tiny sense of yourself that you revere so fully and inviting the
Experience of God in. This is the way right-mindedness is achieved. And
right-mindedness has this advantage: It brings you into alignment with
the Father&rsquo;s Will. It weakens the self-definitions that you have
previously made commitment to. And it provides the opportunity for
breakthrough, for revelation to occur in you, the revealing of your
inseparability from God and the full Conscious Experience of
Intelligence, Life, Love, Mind, Soul, Spirit, Truth.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Right-mindedness dictates the next step automatically &hellip;
</div> 

In other words, without your having to have a goal, without your having
to be proactive about it, without your having to take some personal
private action that can give the little ego you are a little bit of
glory.

Again, and I&rsquo;m going to insert the word &ldquo;itself.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Right-mindedness itself dictates the next step automatically because
right perception is uniformly without attack&hellip;
</div> 

Which means without defense.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; so that wrong-mindedness is obliterated. The ego cannot survive
without judgment, and is laid aside accordingly.
</div> 

In other words, the ego cannot survive without judgment, therefore
without judgment, it is laid aside accordingly. It just disappears.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The mind then has only ONE direction in which it can move. The direction
which the mind will take is always automatic, because it cannot BUT be
dictated by the thought system to which the mind adheres.
</div> 

If your thought system is the one you have created giving definition to
everything, then your mind will follow the dictates of those
definitions. But if you have decided to yield to the Father, to be open
to the Father and to let the Father in, then you will have moved into
what you could call a new thought system, except it&rsquo;s a thought
system that you&rsquo;re not originating. And your mind will follow
automatically the characteristics and the nature of this new thought
system. Which means that you will find yourself, like a snowball rolling
down a mountainside of snow, or an avalanche thundering down the
mountainside, that you will be moving inexorably to the most grounded
place available to you, which is your Sanity, which is your Conscious
Experience of Union with God.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Every thought system has internal consistency, and this provides the
basis for the continuity of behavior. However, this is a matter of
reliability, and not validity.
</div> 

Reliable behavior. Oh, he&rsquo;s a good boy, or she&rsquo;s a good girl
and you can depend upon her.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&ldquo;Reliable behavior&rdquo; is a meaningful perception, as far as
ego thinking goes. However, &ldquo;valid behavior&rdquo; [in other words, 
real, true behavior] is an
expression which is inherently contradictory, because validity is an END
and behavior is a MEANS. These cannot be combined logically because,
when an end has been attained, the means for its attainment are no
longer meaningful.
</div> 

And this is what is characteristic of imaginative thinking. It
doesn&rsquo;t have to follow rules. It doesn&rsquo;t have to be
intelligent. And unintelligent thoughts connected together can be
embraced by you as being intelligent. Or a grouping of intelligent
thoughts and unintelligent thoughts can be embraced by you. And you can
say, &ldquo;This is reasonable.&rdquo; It&rsquo;s like saying, &ldquo;If
I have unconditional Love, I can have multiple simultaneous
relationships with others and it will work. No need for commitment. Or,
I can have multiple simultaneous relationships with others with
commitment and be a little more respectable.&rdquo; But the fact is that
if you try to do it, it won&rsquo;t work. But you can in the freedom of
your imagination create that concept and attempt to live it out and
think that you&rsquo;re being intelligent, when at the bottom line you
have combined intelligence and unintelligence which don&rsquo;t mix.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
A hypothesis is either false or true, to be accepted or rejected
accordingly. If it is shown to be true it becomes a fact, after which
no-one attempts to evaluate it unless its status AS fact is questioned.
</div>

Now this next sentence is key.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
EVERY idea to which the ego has accorded the status of fact is
questionable, because facts are in the realm of knowledge.
</div> 

Or Knowing.

That&rsquo;s why I&rsquo;ve told you when you go through your day, do
not assume that you know what a thing is, even if it&rsquo;s a beautiful
thing. Because if you&rsquo;re not awake, you&rsquo;re not experiencing
the totality of what you&rsquo;re looking at. And so you need to call
into question any definition that you&rsquo;ve given to anything, or
that you&rsquo;ve been provided with by teachers. You need to be
willing to call it into question, at least to the extent to say,
&ldquo;What is the more of What God Is Being right there than what
I&rsquo;m seeing?&rdquo;

And here&rsquo;s the reason stated very clearly.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
EVERY idea to which the ego has accorded the status of fact is
questionable, because facts are in the realm of knowledge.
</div>

Another way of saying that is that facts are non-existent in the ego
frame of reference.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Confusing realms of discourse &hellip;
</div> 

Confusing realms of discourse, which is another way of describing
talking about that which you know nothing about because you
haven&rsquo;t checked in to see what is Real.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is a thinking error which philosophers have recognized for
centuries. Psychologists &hellip;
</div> 

And every single one of you as well.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; are generally quite deficient in this respect, as are many
theologians.
</div> 

In other words, absolutely everyone who has turned their back on their
Source and denied It and therefore does not know who he or she is, is
deficient in this respect.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Data from one realm of discourse do not mean anything in another because
they can be understood only WITHIN the thought system of which they are
a part. That is why psychologists are concentrating increasingly on the
ego, in an attempt to unify their clearly unrelated data.
</div> 

You see it&rsquo;s very important to get mutual agreement,
because without mutual agreement, flaws or beliefs or ignorances will
never be embraced as anything other than what they are. So it&rsquo;s
very important to become very focused in studying the illusion so that
everybody will agree as to what the nature of the illusion is, even
though everybody&rsquo;s calling that illusion something real.

So be careful of&hellip; shall I call it &ldquo;group thinking.&rdquo;
&ldquo;Oh! I just love to be with like-minded people. Give me a group of
metaphysical people to be with. Let me find people who value what I
value.&rdquo; Well, be careful.  Because what you&rsquo;re going to end
up with is a bunch of mutual agreements that make you feel cozy and warm
in the heart because everybody loves each other because everyone thinks
the same way. Everyone values the things you value.

But where is God in that? If you haven&rsquo;t turned toward the Altar,
if you haven&rsquo;t connected with your Source, you&rsquo;re just
having a hunky-dory metaphysical illusion of togetherness. And
you&rsquo;re still dreaming a dream. It would be better for you to be
with other people who, like you, are valuing connecting with your
Source, and who value you and everyone else giving expression to what
you find yourself Knowing as a result with your connection with your
Source. Because when you&rsquo;re connected with your Source, you have
gone to the Place of Excellence in You. And you will be speaking to that
Place of Excellence in Them. And they will be speaking from that Place
of Excellence in Themselves when they speak to you. And mutual agreement
will have nothing to do with the interaction. You see?

And you will feel not cozy and safe in this wonderful social setting of
like-minded people. You will instead feel coming through you and coming
from everyone else the current, fresh inspiration of God. And now
you&rsquo;re talking about a meaningful experience! And you&rsquo;re
talking about an experience which will not degenerate into nothing more
than a bunch of mealy-mouthed individuals rehearsing the rhetoric of
their mutually-agreed-upon definitions. Do you see what I&rsquo;m
saying?

Repeating &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
That is why psychologists are concentrating increasingly on the
ego&hellip;
</div> 

They gotta find some one thing to focus on and that will narrow down the
topic, that will narrow down the need for definitions so it will be
easier to come to a single mutually-agreed-upon definition.

Again, repeating &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
That is why psychologists are concentrating increasingly on the ego, in
an attempt to unify their clearly unrelated data. It need hardly be said
that an attempt to relate the unrelated CANNOT succeed.

The more recent ecological emphases are but another ingenious way of
trying to impose order on chaos.
</div> 

What chaos? The chaos of not Knowing Who You Are. The chaos of not
Knowing What You Are. The chaos of not Knowing Why You&rsquo;re Here.
The chaos of not knowing where to go to get the answer. Or, if you do
know, refusing to do it.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
We have already credited the ego with considerable ingenuity, though not
with creativeness.
</div> 

The Source of Creation is God and the Realm of Creation is God, or You
in your Right Mind.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It should, however, be remembered that inventiveness is really wasted
effort, even in its most ingenious forms.
</div> 

Why? Because when you are denying your Source, all of your
inventiveness, all of your ingenuity will be directed to establishing
your definition of yourself and your definition of everything else in
the minds of others so that they will confirm to you your fantasy as
though it&rsquo;s true, and thereby secure your existence. In other
words, give you a sense of identity that you cannot have when you
don&rsquo;t know what your Source is. So all ingenuity and all
inventiveness will without fail be directed toward your security, your
safety, your invulnerability, your groundedness in an absolutely
ungrounded state of fantasy.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
We &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip;those who are Awake &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; do not have to explain ANYTHING.
</div> 

We don&rsquo;t have to justify anything. We don&rsquo;t have to convince
anyone of anything. We don&rsquo;t have to protect anything. What We Are
Is God in the Act of Creation. And nothing else.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is why we need not trouble ourselves with inventiveness. The highly
specific nature of invention &hellip;
</div> 

And I&rsquo;m going to add: or ingenuity &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is not worthy of the abstract creativity of God's creations.
</div> 

Which We Are. Not just those of Us who are awake, but you as well.

Many of you can imagine that it would a wonderful thing to be able to go
to the tropics and go out on the beach and maybe get a boogie board or a
surfboard, and in the leisure of your day, go out to the waves and ride
them in on your boogie board or your surfboard, to enjoy finding the
crest of the wave, catching it, and flowing with it.

Well, in the leisure of your True Being, You ride the Wave of Creation
Infinitely in all directions simultaneously without missing any tiny
aspect of every leading edge of every Movement of Creation all at the
same time. Such Conscious Experience, such Infinite Conscious
Experience, such Fullness of Experience is what is yours when
you&rsquo;re not denying your Source and thereby not denying Who You
Are. You don&rsquo;t get absorbed into anything. All, infinitely
speaking, becomes available to you as that which identifies You Truly to
You. And therefore your flowing with, your riding the Wave of Creation
constitutes the incredible Experience of Your Identity.

And no such question as, &ldquo;Who am I?&rdquo;, will popup. No
ridiculous question such as, &ldquo;What am I?&rdquo;, will even touch
the fringes of your Infinite Mind. And to wonder, &ldquo;Why am I
here?&rdquo;, would cause you to laugh with great peals of joy. Because
you know that why you&rsquo;re here is to glorify Creation in Its
Infinite Waves of Movement. Because You are Mind and its your Function
to be Conscious. And You are Soul and so it is your Function to Feel the
capital &ldquo;M&rdquo; Meaning of All That Is.

And, if you don&rsquo;t be careful, you might be likely to listen to my
words at this very moment and imagine that I&rsquo;m talking about some
other-worldly spiritual experience. And I want to bring you right back
to the here and now [knocking on the table] to the glass-topped table,
to the beautiful roses, to your fingernails, to your hair, to the other
individuals who are in the room. And I want you to be willing to dare to
assume that every single thing you&rsquo;re seeing is a Wave of the
Movement of Creation with the Fullness of the Meaning God Is Being right
there.  And so what I&rsquo;m talking about isn&rsquo;t other-worldly
and you need to be watching for the clearer image, if you will, the
clearer experience of the rose and the glass-topped table and your
fingernails and your hair and the other people in the room.

Because remember the Mind that you are experiencing right now is the
Divine Mind. It&rsquo;s the only Mind you will ever have, but you are
using your Mind for the specific purpose of giving your attention only
to the definitions and meanings you are applying to the Infinite
Movement of Creation that is in your face. And so you say,
&ldquo;It&rsquo;s just a red rose.  It&rsquo;s just a white rose.
It&rsquo;s just a piece [knocking on the glass] of glass. It&rsquo;s
just a not too attractive fingernail. It&rsquo;s thinning hair.&rdquo;
You see? And you block the Experience of What It Really Is.

The Ultimate is in your face today. And the Mind you are using is the
Mind That Is God. The Mind That Is God what? Being your Consciousness,
being your Mind. And so the answer lies not in finding another place to
be where you could just as easily say, &ldquo;Why am I here?&rdquo; It
lies in using your Mind differently right here and right now. Because
the moment you move into a different thought system, you will see the
Kingdom of Heaven in completely different form than the form
you&rsquo;re seeing the Kingdom of Heaven in at this moment when you are
preoccupied with your definitions.  Reality, the only thing that&rsquo;s
confronting you, will look different to you when you shift to a
different thought system from which to view the Kingdom of Heaven.

At least intellectually, do you grasp what I&rsquo;m saying? Your belief
system is a filter. And the filter sieves out, filters out certain
aspects of Reality. And you take what&rsquo;s left and you say,
&ldquo;This is what is going on. This is what these little parts of
infinity are and they are the totality.&rdquo; Change your filter, like
changing your glasses from regular to polarized will give you a
different view.

What is a miracle? A shift, a sudden shift of perception. A movement
from one thought system to another system.

Now don&rsquo;t get smart-assed with me, and I&rsquo;m saying this not
to anyone in this room, but to all of those people who just love to
think. Don&rsquo;t get smart-assed with me and say, &ldquo;Well, a heck
of a lot of good it does to move from one thought system to another
thought system &lsquo;cause you&rsquo;re still in a thought system. You
haven&rsquo;t woken up yet.&rdquo; Well, don&rsquo;t discount what
I&rsquo;m saying with such stupidity, please.

When you change from a thought system that is ignorant, that is a denial
of your Source, that causes you not to know Who You Are because you
can&rsquo;t have an identity if you&rsquo;re sourceless, when you make a
shift from that to a better thought system that is more in alignment
with the Truth, you are moving toward what the Course calls the happy
dream.

The poor thought models that you&rsquo;re using right now do not allow
for breaking out of the thought system. But you can move to a thought
system that recognizes that indeed it is still not a matter of being
awake, but if that thought system embraces within itself an
infrastructure, I will say, that promotes invalidating the way
you&rsquo;re currently seeing things and invites you to look with
innocent eyes at everything you&rsquo;re seeing, because you&rsquo;ve
been told that what&rsquo;s there is truly the Kingdom of Heaven even
though you&rsquo;re not seeing it, and you decide you want to see the
more of the Kingdom of Heaven that&rsquo;s there, you&rsquo;re in a
thought system which inherently undermines itself and promotes the
experience of insight because you become undefended against insight. You
become undefended against what you don&rsquo;t know yet. And hopefully,
you actually begin to desire to have an experience of the unknown
because this better thought system you&rsquo;re in tells you that the
unknown is not fearful, is not fearsome, is not threatening.

And I will tell you something. You will move from thought system to
thought system to thought system with improvements. Actually what will
happen is that your current thought system is being undermined by
everything I&rsquo;m sharing with you. It&rsquo;s being undermined by
your Soul directly with you as It insists upon reuniting yourself with
your Self, with a capital &ldquo;S&rdquo;. And so, you will find that a
constant modification of your thought system will occur until the
infrastructure of it becomes so freeing, rather than binding, that you
will finally arrive at a point where you have the guts to abandon
thought systems entirely and let go into the Father, let go into your
Soul, let go into the Love That You Are. And let It consume you. Let It
Be All There Is Of You. And that&rsquo;s when you&rsquo;ll wake up.

You will say &ldquo;Uncle&rdquo; to God. And God will fill you full
because you will be presenting no resistance whatsoever and that is why
it is said that, &ldquo;God will take the last step.&rdquo; You see, it
isn&rsquo;t the Kingdom of Heaven that you need to let yourself back
into at the bottom line. What you need to do at the bottom line is to be
so completely undefended that you let God in to replace who you thought
you were. To replace who you thought you were. Not improve it. Replace
it.

And here&rsquo;s another way of putting it that you&rsquo;ll be able to
embrace more easily. What you will be doing is becoming defenseless
enough, or so completely void of defense, that your Self, your capital
&ldquo;S&rdquo; Self will replace who you think you are. Maybe
it&rsquo;s scary to think that God might replace who you are. So realize
that it is Who You Truly Are that will replace who you think you are.
They both mean the same thing.

But it&rsquo;s helpful, ultimately it&rsquo;s required for you to
recognize that God will replace who you are, because until you say
&ldquo;Yes&rdquo; to God, you will still be in some state of denial of
your Source.

God and You are One. **And That One Is God**.

Write that on your refrigerator.

God and You are One. **And That One Is God**.

And when you let that be the utter simple Truth, you will get your
Identity back. You will get your Identity back and you will Know What
You Are. And instead of wondering why you are where you are, you will
Know Where You Are, in the Kingdom of Heaven in the Conscious Experience
of Creation as It Moves.

Is this interesting, or what!?

I Love You All.

[^1]: T4.2 The Ego and False Autonomy

