---
title: Aug 24, 2003
ref: "T4.5 The Ego-Body Illusion"
alink: "/acim/text/04/chap0405/"
---

Good afternoon. It&rsquo;s good to have you here. And I welcome
everyone as well who is joining us on the internet.

I&rsquo;m going to continue reading from the transcript as completed by
Bill Thetford. And the next two paragraphs were not only specifically
directed to Helen and Bill, but you might say all psychologists, and
there is transfer value here for every single person who reads it.

Beginning.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Psychologists are in a good position to realize that the ego is capable
of making and accepting as real some very distorted associations. The
confusion of sex with aggression, and the resulting behavior which is
perceived as the same for both, serves as an example. This is
&ldquo;understandable&rdquo; to the psychologist, and does not produce
surprise. The lack of surprise, however, is NOT a sign of understanding.
It is a symptom of the psychologist&rsquo;s ability to accept as
reasonable a compromise which is clearly senseless; to attribute it to
the mental illness of the patient, rather than his own; and to limit his
questions about both the patient AND himself to the trivial.[^1]

Such relatively minor confusions of the ego are not among its more
profound misassociations, although they do reflect them. Your egos have
been blocking the more important questions which your minds SHOULD ask.
You do not understand a patient &hellip;
</div>

Or you could say you do not understand a brother or a sister or a
partner or a friend or a boss.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You do not understand a patient while you yourselves are willing to
limit the questions you raise about HIS mind, because you are also
accepting these limits for YOURS.
</div>

In other words, anyone who thinks just like you do, you don&rsquo;t
question. You don&rsquo;t practice doubt. You don&rsquo;t ask,
&ldquo;Is there another way to look at this?&rdquo; Because the way they
think confirms the way you think and there you are, your
mutually-agreed-upon definitions are confirmed, even though the
mutually-agreed-upon definitions constitute a mental aberration, or what
you might call a mental illness, because of the fact that the
mutually-agreed-upon definitions are in contradiction to the Meanings
Expressed By God in all of the things you have applied new definitions
to.

So, repeating &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you are also accepting these limits for YOURS. This makes you
unable to heal him AND yourselves. Be always unwilling to adapt to ANY
situation in which miracle-mindedness is unthinkable. That state in
itself is enough to demonstrate that the perception is wrong.
</div>

The next section is entitled:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*The Constant State*
</div>

And in the first and second edition it&rsquo;s entitled:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*The Rewards of God*

*The Constant State*

It cannot be emphasized too often that correcting perception is merely a
temporary expedient.
</div>

In other words, it&rsquo;s not an end goal. Correcting perception
doesn&rsquo;t resolve your dream. Correcting perception doesn&rsquo;t
wake you up.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is necessary to do so &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning correct perception &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; only because misperception is a block to knowledge&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; or Knowing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; while accurate perception is a stepping-stone TOWARDS it.
Again.

It cannot be emphasized too often that correcting perception is merely a
temporary expedient. It is necessary to do so only because misperception
is a block to knowledge, while accurate perception is a stepping-stone
TOWARDS it. The whole value of right perception lies in the inevitable
judgment which it entails that it IS unnecessary.
</div>

In other words, the value of right perception lies in the discovery you
make upon experiencing correct perception, accurate perception, that
having accurate perception is unnecessary. And the reason you have that
realization is because in the presence of accurate perception, you see
the valuelessness of the misperception you were harboring, and in that
space, if I may put it that way, in the space of accurate perception you
are subject to sudden insight, sudden inspiration, sudden revelation
that constitutes a connection with God. An Experience of Truth that
shows you that although right perception was valuable as a stepping
stone, it wasn&rsquo;t the end goal and it wasn&rsquo;t the point. It
was the experience of Knowing with a capital &ldquo;K&rdquo;, the
Impulse of Truth from God registering with you that was the point and
that you see was the point.

Okay &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; experience.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This removes the block entirely. You may ask how this is possible as
long as you appear to be living in this world, and since this is a
sensible question, it has a sensible answer. You must be careful,
however, that you really understand the question. What IS the
&ldquo;you&rdquo; who are living in this world?
</div>

Well, let&rsquo;s explore what this you is.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Immortality is a constant state. It is as true now as it ever was or
ever will be, because it implies NO CHANGE AT ALL. It is not a
continuum, nor is it understood by being compared to an opposite.
Knowledge &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; or Knowing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; never involves comparisons. That is its essential difference
from everything else the mind can grasp. &ldquo;A little
knowledge&rdquo; is not dangerous except to the ego.
</div>

In other words, a little bit of the Experience of Knowing the Truth is
not dangerous except to the ego.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Vaguely it senses threat, and being unable to realize that &ldquo;a
little knowledge&rdquo; is a meaningless phrase since &ldquo;all&rdquo;
and &ldquo;a little&rdquo; in this context are the same, the ego decides
that since &ldquo;all&rdquo; is impossible, the fear does not lie there.
&ldquo;A little,&rdquo; however, is a scarcity concept, and THIS the ego
understands well. &ldquo;A little,&rdquo; then, is perceived as the real
threat.

The essential thing to remember is that the ego DOES NOT RECOGNIZE the
real source of its perceived threat, and if YOU associate yourself with
the ego, YOU do not perceive the whole situation as it is. Only your
allegiance to it gives the ego ANY power over you.
</div>

Now what&rsquo;s coming up next is extremely important.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
We have spoken of the ego as if it were a separate thing acting on its
own.
</div>

And I spoke about this last week.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This was necessary to persuade you that you cannot dismiss it lightly,
and must realize how much of your thinking is ego-directed. We cannot
safely let it go at that, however, or you will regard yourselves as
necessarily conflicted as long as you are here, or, more properly, as
long as you BELIEVE that you are here.
</div>

And this should be underlined and printed in red and put on your
refrigerator.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego is nothing more than a PART of your belief about yourselves.
</div>

You remember last week I spoke about the fact that never at any point
had you ceased to be the direct Expression of God. That each one of you
is the Christ pretending not to be the Christ, behaving as though
you&rsquo;re not the Christ and believing your behavior. And so you call
yourselves egos and with the full power of the Christ That You Are, you
construct experiences that are unpleasant because they don&rsquo;t
reflect your Divine Intelligence. But never at any time is there a thing
called an ego doing anything at all. It&rsquo;s always the Christ with
an ego-mask on pretending to be what the mask represents. You see?

And so, repeating &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego is nothing more than a PART of your belief about yourselves.
</div>

The ego is nothing more than a part of the Christ&rsquo;s belief about
himself. You see? It&rsquo;s always the Christ. It&rsquo;s always the
Christ. You&rsquo;re always the Christ. You can&rsquo;t stop Being What
You Are. You can pretend.  You can fool yourselves. But you can&rsquo;t
make it true. And so at every single moment, You are the Ultimate. At
this very moment You are the Ultimate, the very Presence of God. And
isn&rsquo;t it amazing? None of you can believe it. &ldquo;Nice idea.
Wonderful thought. But it just can&rsquo;t be so.  I know who I am. I
know I&rsquo;m not what you&rsquo;re talking about.&rdquo;

Well, I will keep telling you that you are what I&rsquo;m talking about
until your confidence and your doubt begins to break down. I will keep
talking until your confidence begins to break down and you begin to
consider the possibility that maybe, in spite of your absolute
confidence in your belief about yourself, you might be wrong and I might
be right. So that you might let your Experience of Who You Are be
regenerated, illuminated, and let Its Absolute Infinite Divinity begin
to register with you. And so that you might look at your bodies and say,
&ldquo;The limitations I&rsquo;m experiencing here, the age I seem to be
experiencing here, the youth that my children seem to be experiencing
there, can&rsquo;t be the Truth because I am Eternal, Changeless,
Forever Embodying The Pristine Idea God Is Having right where I see
myself and right where I see my children.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego is nothing more than a PART of your belief about yourselves.
Your other life &hellip;
</div>

The Life of the Divine One That You Are. The Life that God is unfolding
flawlessly and which it is a Joy for you to be experiencing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; has continued without interruption, and has been and always
will be totally unaffected by your attempts to disassociate.
</div>

In other words, by your attempts to say, &ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;d rather
do it my way. Father, I&rsquo;d rather see it my way. Father, I&rsquo;d
rather decide what things are.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ratio of repression &hellip;
</div>

Meaning the ignoring of your Divinity.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and dissociation &hellip;
</div>

Meaning your distancing yourself from God and your acknowledgement that
God is your Source and that you are not your source.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; varies with the individual ego-illusion, but dissociation is
always involved, or you would not believe that you ARE here.
</div>

Meaning in an experience that can&rsquo;t be called the Kingdom of
Heaven, that can&rsquo;t be called Reality with a capital
&ldquo;R&rdquo;.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In learning to escape from the illusions you have made&hellip;
</div>

Remember they are not illusions that you, a piss-ant little ego, has
made. They are illusions which you, a fully Christed Presence of God,
have made-up and given preference to.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In learning to escape from the illusions you have made, your great debt
to each other is something you must never forget. It is exactly the same
debt that you owe to me. Whenever you react egotistically towards each
other, you are throwing away the graciousness of your indebtedness, and
the holy perception it would produce.
</div>

What is the indebtedness you have to each other? At the bottom line it
is the fact that each one of you is the Christ whether you are embodying
it consciously or not. And because you haven&rsquo;t stopped being What
You Divinely Are, you present to all of your Brothers and Sisters the
ongoing, ever-present opportunity to recognize the Christ right where
you are. You are all indebted to each other because you all provide each
other with the constant opportunity to remember Home, to remember God,
and thereby to remember Who You Are.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The term &ldquo;holy&rdquo; can be used here because, as you learn how
much you ARE indebted to the whole Sonship, which INCLUDES me, you come
as close to knowledge as perception ever can. The gap &hellip;
</div>

Between perception and Knowledge or Knowing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is then so small that knowledge can easily flow across it, and
obliterate it forever.
</div>

Again that&rsquo;s why you&rsquo;re indebted to each other because
you&rsquo;re constantly providing each other with the opportunity for
that to happen.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have very little trust in me as yet, but it will increase as you
turn more and more often to me INSTEAD of your egos for guidance.
</div>

And of course, what that means is instead of you, the Christ, turning to
the definition you have given yourself and all of the self-protecting,
mutual agreements that have been developed by you in order not to be
able to remember Home.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have very little trust in me as yet, but it will increase as you
turn more and more often to me INSTEAD of your egos for guidance.
</div>

Another way of saying that would be instead of your imaginations for
guidance.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The results will convince you increasingly that your choice in turning
to me is the only sane one you can make.
</div>

Well, if you haven&rsquo;t had the experience of turning to me and
experiencing the result, then I will share with you that when you turn
to me, when you genuinely, unresistantly ask anything of me, I will
respond. I do respond. And I respond in a manner you can hear.

And in that experience, you find yourself experiencing yourself as I
experience You. As a result, you feel your Innocence. You don&rsquo;t
feel at all surprised that you&rsquo;re hearing from me. It
doesn&rsquo;t feel at all unnatural. Although afterwards you will stand
in wonder, and even ask yourself if you went crazy. But the Experience
of Communion with me is one that feels utterly natural and normal with
one exception; that you feel utterly Loved and you&rsquo;re not
surprised. In other words, the experience doesn&rsquo;t feel unnatural
to you. And at the time that it&rsquo;s occurring, you won&rsquo;t find
yourself objecting to it. You won&rsquo;t find yourself arguing with it.
You will not find yourself saying, &ldquo;I am not worthy of
this.&rdquo;

Repeating &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The results &hellip;
</div>

Which I just described.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; will convince you increasingly that your choice in turning to
me is the only sane one you can make. No-one who has learned from
experience that one choice brings peace and joy, while another brings
chaos and disaster, needs much conditioning.
</div>

The simple fact is that you will need more, but you won&rsquo;t need a
whole lot.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego &hellip;
</div>

Meaning your current best definition of yourself that you have convinced
yourself of and that you have convinced many others of.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; cannot withstand the conditioning process &hellip;
</div>

Of repeated communion with me.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; because the process itself DEMONSTRATES that there is another
way.  Conditioning by rewards has always been more effective than
conditioning by pain because pain is an ego-illusion, and can never
induce more than a temporary effect. The rewards of God, however, are
immediately recognized as eternal.
</div>

And I will tell you something. No matter how slight or how momentary or
how brief an encounter you have with me, it will leave you forever
changed. Not shockingly, but it will leave you changed because you will
have had a demonstration that in spite of your attempt to be separate
and alone, you aren&rsquo;t. And the experience is a demonstration of
the fact that you aren&rsquo;t alone, that you never have been alone,
and never will be. In other words, that Being, I&rsquo;m going to put it
this way, is a community experience, is an Experience of Brotherhood.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Since this recognition is made by you &hellip;
</div>

In other words, the Christ that you Are.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and NOT the ego, the recognition ITSELF establishes that you
and your ego CANNOT be identical.
</div>

That&rsquo;s one of the realizations that will change you forever
because you can&rsquo;t undo that recognition.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You may believe that you have already accepted the difference, but you
are by no means convinced as yet. The very fact that you are preoccupied
with the idea of escaping FROM the ego shows this.
</div>

Keeping in mind that your ego isn&rsquo;t something separate from you,
but that you are not the ego, that You are the Christ employing a mask
or a definition of yourself that can&rsquo;t possibly change
what&rsquo;s underneath the mask.

Remember this &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You CANNOT escape from the ego by humbling it or controlling it or
punishing it. Remember that the ego and the Soul DO NOT KNOW each other.
The separated mind cannot maintain the separation EXCEPT by
dissociating.
</div>

Now, this may sound confusing. If you, the Christ, are pretending to be
an ego, then it would seem that You, Soul, can know the ego, but the
fact is that they are mutually exclusive. The ego cannot let itself know
the Soul, cannot let itself know &hellip; I&rsquo;m going to change
that. The ego cannot let you know or access the fact that You Are Soul
because that will constitute the demise of the ego. And so that&rsquo;s
why it tells you, you are not Soul, with a capital &ldquo;S&rdquo;, the
Living Presence of God, but that you are a soul, a little creation of
God, a little separate and apart thing that God made that has the
attributes of God, but isn&rsquo;t God Presencing Himself Right Where
You Are.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The separated mind cannot maintain the separation EXCEPT by
dissociating.
</div>

By keeping Soul separate from it so that it cannot experience its
demise.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Having done this, it utilizes repression against all truly natural
impulses&hellip;
</div>

And I&rsquo;m going to say Divine Impulses.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; not because the EGO is a separate thing, but because you want
to believe that YOU are.
</div>

You might say that&rsquo;s hard to believe. You never decided that you
wanted to be separate. But the fact is that you have gotten hooked, as
we&rsquo;ve talked about many times, on the experience, the high, the
hit that you get from attempting to be individually privately creative
and to make your mark on the world, or to actually create something on
your own that you can take credit for entirely. You thrive on the
attempt to accomplish this. And you do it because the ego suggests to
you that you can. And the ego suggests to you that you can so that you
will be distracted from connecting with yourself as Soul.

Repeating &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Having done this, it &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the separated mind &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; utilizes repression against all truly natural impulses, not
because the EGO is a separate thing, but because you want to believe
that YOU are. The ego is a device for maintaining this belief, but it is
still only YOUR willingness to use the device that enables it to endure.
</div>

Do you see what I&rsquo;ve been meaning when I&rsquo;ve said that you
are at this moment the Christ pretending you aren&rsquo;t, behaving as
though you aren&rsquo;t, and believing your behavior. There is no ego.

Repeating &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego is a device &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; a tool, a means &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; for maintaining this belief&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that you can be separate &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; but it is still only YOUR willingness &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the willingness of the Christ that you Are &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; to use the device that enables it to endure.
</div>

And then, silly ones, you blame the ego. &ldquo;The ego made me do
it.&rdquo; And all the time, you have put on the mask, behaved as though
you aren&rsquo;t yourself, and then tried to lay responsibility for the
crazy actions that you&rsquo;ve taken, on this masked figure. &ldquo;Who
was that masked man?&rdquo; &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t know. We better try and
find out.&rdquo; You see? More subterfuge.

I mentioned last week that what I&rsquo;m engaged in with all of you is
an overture of Love, and here&rsquo;s a little more of it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
My trust in you is greater than yours in me at the moment, but it will
not always be that way. Your mission is very simple. You have been
chosen to live so as to demonstrate that you are NOT an ego. I repeat
that I do not choose God&rsquo;s channels wrongly.
</div>

Now it could be very easy to say here that I was speaking exclusively to
Helen and Bill and that this doesn&rsquo;t relate to you. But I&rsquo;ll
tell you something. Anyone who is hearing my voice, whether it&rsquo;s
right now through Paul or whether it&rsquo;s in the stillness within
yourself, you are at a point of becoming undefended against your
connection with the Whole of Being, your connection with those of the
Brotherhood who are not confined by ego definitions.

You have arrived at a point where you&rsquo;re breaking the boundary and
the isolation. In that sense, your intent that you have followed through
on to the point of successful contact, if I may put it that way, has
made it possible for Me or for your Guides or for the Holy Spirit to
provide the invitation to you to persist further in this direction.

In that sense, I have chosen each one of you who has chosen to listen.
And so, you&rsquo;re having been chosen doesn&rsquo;t make you special.
It simply confirms where a newfound commitment lies in you. And it
inevitably, that decision, that choice inevitably puts you in the
position of realizing that part of waking up involves Loving your
Brother as yourself, behaving in a new way with your Brother, seeing
your Brother in a new way, being willing to use your Brother for the
purpose of remembering the Christ in him, and therefore the Christ in
you.

So continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I repeat that I do not choose God&rsquo;s channels wrongly.
</div>

It was really a mutual choice. You and I did it together.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy One shares my trust, and always approves my Atonement decisions
because my will is never out of accord with His. I have told you before
that I am in charge of the whole Atonement. This is ONLY because I
completed my part in it as a man, and can now complete it through other
men. My chosen receiving and sending channels &hellip;
</div>

Meaning any of you who hears My Voice and communes with Me.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; cannot fail because I will lend them MY strength as long as
theirs is wanting.
</div>

The word &ldquo;channels&rdquo; has a somewhat bad rap these days. But
what are you doing when you become defenseless against God? You let God
shine through you. We&rsquo;ve talked about your needing to have an
object of your affection, some place to extend your Love to so that you
might extend the Father&rsquo;s Love through you to the object of your
affection, and thereby both of you stand in receipt of the
Father&rsquo;s Love. Doesn&rsquo;t that make you a channel in that
sense? If you are here to represent God, if you are here because you are
the Expression of God, then you are channeling God.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I will go with you to the Holy One&hellip;

I will go with you to the Holy One, and through MY perception HE can
bridge the little gap. Your gratitude to EACH OTHER is the only gift I
want. I will bring it to God for you, knowing that to know your brother
IS to know God. A little knowledge is an all-encompassing thing. If you
are grateful to each other, you are grateful to God for what He created.
</div>

Now, don&rsquo;t be grateful to each other because you scratched his
back and he scratched your back, and you made a good deal together. You
made-up a good agreement. That&rsquo;s not what we&rsquo;re talking
about. Gratitude, gratitude for the Christ that your Brother must be
regardless of how he&rsquo;s behaving, is the gratitude that will
transform you and him.

Continuing here &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you are grateful to each other, you are grateful to God for what He
created. Through your gratitude you can come to know each other&hellip;
</div>

And that truly, in the sense of Knowing as opposed to perceiving.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Through your gratitude you can come to know each other, and one moment
of real recognition makes all men your brothers, because they are all of
your Father.
</div>

There&rsquo;s an incredible learning when you find yourself feeling
Loved by Me or Loved by God. And that is that you realize that you
didn&rsquo;t do anything to become worthy of it. You know that you
didn&rsquo;t change in any way to suddenly stand in the conscious
receipt of being Loved by God.  And in that moment you inescapably
become aware of the fact that the same thing is true of your Brother or
your Sister, that they are as deserving of it as you are because you
know you&rsquo;re not any more special than them. And in that
realization a truer sense of Brotherhood comes into play and a capacity
on your part to truly be able to look beyond your definitions of them,
or the definitions of themselves that they present to you, and see more
deeply into their worthiness.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Love does not conquer all things, but it DOES set all things right.
</div>

You might say it puts all things into perspective so that everything
fits perfectly and divinely.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Because you are all the Kingdom of God, I can lead you back to your own
creations, which you do not yet know. What has been dissociated is still
there.
</div>

In other words, the Movement of Creation that has been going on all this
time that you have been dallying with the ego and playing with the idea
of being an ego and suffering from the idea of being an ego, all of the
Movement of Creation that you&rsquo;ve been participating in remains
unchanged and awaiting your recognition and remembrance of It. And it
will be returned as I said.

Continuing in my invitation to Love.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As you come closer to a brother you DO approach me, and as you withdraw
from him, I become distant to you.
</div>

Notice I didn&rsquo;t say from you. I don&rsquo;t withdraw, but as you
withdraw from him, I become distant to you. Because in effect, you
withdraw from me.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your giant step forward was to insist on a &ldquo;collaborative
venture.&rdquo;
</div>

This remark was specifically made to Helen and Bill, but I want to point
out to you that the moment you, any one of you decides to abandon your
isolation and you reach out to me and you make connection with me, it is
because you have insisted on a collaborative venture. You have said,
&ldquo;I want to join. I do not want to be autonomous.&rdquo;

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This does not go against the true spirit of meditation; it is inherent
in it.
</div>

In other words, meditation is not an isolated experience. It is not
meant to hold you in your already-existing isolation, but in a finer
experience of peace in your isolation.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Meditation is a collaborative venture with God.
</div>

See how I&rsquo;m promoting our Love affair here.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It CANNOT be undertaken successfully by those who disengage themselves
from the Sonship&hellip;
</div>

Or the Brotherhood.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; because they are disengaging themselves from me. God will come
to you &hellip;
</div>

And I&rsquo;ve said this over and over and it&rsquo;s the key point and
it&rsquo;s the simplicity of it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God will come to you ONLY as you will give Him to your brothers.
</div>

Only as you are willing to have an object of your affection and let that
object of your affection not be the bastard who is confronting you, but
the Christ that you know has to underlie that definition he is applying
to himself.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God will come to you ONLY as you will give Him to your brothers. Learn
first of them&hellip;
</div>

In other words, let your Brothers pleasant or nasty, kind or mean,
aggressive or passive, be the ones, be the one whom you choose to extend
the acknowledgement of Christhood to. Let them be the trigger for your
refusing to respond from your ego, and rather respond from that Place of
having turned toward the Altar, having joined with Me or with the Father
so that you might extend a purer, more acceptable Love that arises out
of a sense of Who The One You&rsquo;re Extending To Is Divinely.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Learn first of them, and you will be ready to hear God as you hear them.
</div>

In other words, don&rsquo;t go running off to God and leave your Brother
out in the boonies and say, &ldquo;I&rsquo;ll come back with you when
I&rsquo;ve got a clearer perception. It&rsquo;s a little bit too hard
for me to deal with you right now. It will be easier for me to deal with
God and I&rsquo;m going to do that by myself. So I&rsquo;ll be back when
I make the connection.&rdquo; You see?

You start with your Brother. Let your Brother be the reason you turn
toward God. But not as a means of leaving your Brother, but rather as a
means of coming into Clarity, Divine Clarity within yourself so that
your Brother will be worth your attention and your commitment and so
that you will reflect back to your Brother or your Sister the Divine
Truth you know about the Christ That They Are in whatever manner it
takes to cause them to feel safe enough to abandon the definition that
they&rsquo;ve given themselves and the effort they are confident they
have to put forth to protect themselves in your presence.

Repeating &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Learn first of them, and you will be ready to hear God as you hear them.
That is because the function of love is one.
</div>

Now, I&rsquo;m asking you this question. You could ask me this question.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
How can you teach someone the value of something he has deliberately
thrown away?
</div>

And if your ego is really rearing its head, it would say, &ldquo;Why
would you bother to teach someone the value of something he has
deliberately thrown away?&rdquo;

Well, how do you teach someone the value of something he has
deliberately thrown away?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He must have thrown it away because he did not value it. You can only
show him how miserable he is without it&hellip;
</div>

Without the thing he threw away.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and bring it near very slowly&hellip;
</div>

You don&rsquo;t cram it down his throat. You don&rsquo;t shove it in his
face.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You can only show him how miserable he is without it&hellip;
</div>

Meaning the correct perception that he&rsquo;s thrown away.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and bring it near very slowly, so he can learn how his misery
lessens as he approaches it.
</div>

If you don&rsquo;t approach slowly, you will frighten him and his fear
will not lessen.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This conditions him to associate his misery with its absence, and to
associate the opposite of misery with its presence. It gradually becomes
desirable, as he changes his mind about its worth.
</div>

You see? This is my Love affair with you.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I am conditioning you to associate misery with the ego and joy with the
Soul. You have conditioned yourselves the other way around. A far
greater reward, however, will break through any conditioning, if it is
repeatedly offered whenever the old habit pattern is broken. You are
still free to choose, but can you really WANT the rewards of the ego in
the presence of the rewards of God?
</div>

Well, of course, the answer is &ldquo;No.&rdquo;

But just as I am willing to persist with you for as long as it takes,
you are invited to persist with each other for as long as it takes. Why?
Because somewhere along the line, you will arrive at a point where you
have more faith in your Brother than your Brother has in you, just as I
have more faith in you than you have in me. Because I have more faith in
you because I know Who You Are&mdash;the Christ, my Brother, my Sister.
Because I have more faith in you, because I know Who You Are, than you
have faith in me, I persist in the face of your mistrust of me and your
fear of abandoning the control that keeps you bound, even though you
think it keeps you safe.

And so I persist with you, and as that begins to be obvious to you and
make sense to you, you will begin to feel, not think, but you will begin
to feel that this is your function as well with your Brother. And you
will be able to feel the fact that no matter how much resistance you run
into, and no matter how much delay they introduce into the process of
their waking up, they&rsquo;re worth persisting with because they
deserve to Know Who They Already Divinely Are. They deserve not the
opportunity to refine themselves and become something that they
aren&rsquo;t already. You see? They deserve to Experience What They
Already Are and think they&rsquo;re not, believe they&rsquo;re not, and
are committed to believing they&rsquo;re not.  And even though you are
not feeling Who You Truly Are fully, your commitment to helping them be
less afraid of experiencing Who They Are Truly will confirm to you the
safety of your persisting, and both of you will be blessed, and
that&rsquo;s the way it works.

So I continue in my Love affair with you. And I invite you all to
consider having a Love affair with your fellowman. A Love affair in
which you bring to your fellowman an acknowledgement of his Christhood,
and bless him with that acknowledgement by neglecting to respond to his
ego assertions from your ego habits.

I love companioning with you.

Okay.

[^1]: T4.5 The Ego-Body Illusion

