---
title: Aug 31, 2003
ref: "T4.7 Creation and Communication"
alink: "/acim/text/04/chap0407/"
---

Okay. Good afternoon. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
internet.

I&rsquo;m going to put you on the spot. Two weeks ago I gave you a homework
assignment. Does anyone remember what it was? The homework assignment
was to notice during the coming week how many times and in what ways
your egos distracted you from asking the one essential question. Does
that ring any bells?

Does anyone remember what the one essential question was? Two gold stars
for Mark. Yes sir.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Where do I go to find protection? [^1]
</div>

Indeed. Did anyone explore that? And does anyone remember what they
discovered as a result? Okay.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
There is no place to go for protection.
</div>

No. The question was did you notice how your ego distracted you from
asking the question?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
No, I didn&rsquo;t.

I got busy doing things that had those words involved in them and
circled around the concept and never directly embraced the question
honestly waiting for an answer. I just stayed busy thinking about it and
studying about it.
</div>

What kind of thoughts did you &hellip; went through your mind?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
What kind of activity that I could do to create that space or find that
space, versus just accepting it from God, accepting that it&rsquo;s true,
allowing that experience to come in God&rsquo;s terms.
</div>

Can you think of any specific interactions with others where you did not
go to where your safety was, but engaged in subterfuge and reaction and
what the techniques were that you used?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Really when I get close to it, I want to undermine the activity, and
I&rsquo;ll get mad. I&rsquo;ll get impatient and start looking for, you know, faults
in other people that seem obvious to me, that I find those to be
irritating. And the closer it gets, the more angry I get, the more
frustrated I get with how other people aren&rsquo;t getting it. Approaching it
does create &hellip;
</div>

Approaching what?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Approaching just honestly sitting still and being quiet with the
question there generates some kind of intense frustration and eventually
it goes into anger.
</div>

Contemplating what?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Asking the question and sitting still and waiting for the answer.
</div>

What question?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Where can I go to find safety, to be protected? And I ask the question
and really want an answer that&rsquo;s &hellip; I&rsquo;m invited to become frustrated
and enraged with children walking around making noise, somebody &hellip; It
just is I become hypersensitive and very judgmental &lsquo;cause I really&hellip;
I really worked at it and asked the question and tried to, you know,
be still, as I did that which, you know, is repetitive. I mean it wasn&rsquo;t
like I did it once. But as I worked with that and I became more sincere
with it, I found I began to be reactive. My behavior was harder to
control. And I mean it rustled some stuff loose in there so, you know, I
gave up pretty quick. A few days of trying. I had space to myself where
my environment was a little different. I was out of town and so it was
really &hellip; I was crying because I really wanted it. I mean I really
wanted it and I got really sincere and asked the question. And as I
became more sincere, it brought stuff up that I don&rsquo;t know that I could
clearly say why or how. It&rsquo;s not like it makes any sense that a child
making some noise would irritate me that much, but I just noticed I
started to became real judgmental and hypersensitive and not the usual
nice guy that&rsquo;s got everything all bolted down. Stirred up some stuff
and I became &hellip; really wanted the answer.
</div>

And it wasn&rsquo;t enlightenment that got stirred up.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
No.
</div>

No.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
No.
</div>

Does what Mark has shared remind any of you of any experiences you had
during the last couple of weeks?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I&rsquo;m thinking of that prayer that you gave us. The Kingdom which is me,
which is us, is &hellip; now my mind is just going blank&hellip; perfectly
unified and perfectly protected and ego shall not prevail against it,
&lsquo;cause that&rsquo;s what came up when I got really frightened one time. And it
just came up over and over and over again when the fear would &hellip; it
worked for two seconds and then it would be back again. And as long as I
kept saying that. And then what came to me was this wonderful sensation
that, you know, the Kingdom is unified. I mean unified with every thing.
I&rsquo;m not alone. There isn&rsquo;t any way that I can keep thinking of myself as
separate.
</div>

Yes. Anyone else?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I wrote that down, that question, but I think I forgot about it very
quickly. But that week I had a couple of like real big fits [laughing]
where I was really trying to arrange out there to get my safety and I
was really trying to make somebody, you know, give it to me. And I
didn&rsquo;t even remember that we had that because I got so embroiled in the
fits. I think I felt extremely vulnerable. Just was grabbing at, okay,
how about you, or how about money, how about this, you know, to make me
feel safe.
</div>

Each of you has spoken of particular situations or instances that caused
you to become unglued, unsettled, uncomfortable. But what I want all of
you to be aware of is that you are constantly ill at ease even when no
specific circumstance has caused you to flare up or for your ego to
flare up. You are constantly primed for blowups. You are constantly on
edge poised to defend yourselves. I do not say this to you to disturb
you. I say this to you so that you might understand that in your
relative peace, you already are disturbed. You&rsquo;ve just gotten used to
it. And as a result, you don&rsquo;t bother to ask, &ldquo;Where is my protection?
Where is my safety? Where can I find my peace?&rdquo;

Now Paul heard me ask the question as well and somehow thought that he
was exempt from participating, and he was going to be very interested to
see what everyone else had to say. And as a result he went through two
weeks of constant opportunity to notice how his ego was distracting him
from asking the essential question. As a result of his not recognizing
his ongoing uneasiness, and thereby missing the point that his
uneasiness was result of a choice he had made not to be joined.

He, like Mark and Judy, found himself finding fault with others. They were 
the reason he was miserable. And then poor Susan comes along and
says, &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t know if you realize it but you&rsquo;re really being cranky.
You&rsquo;re really not on the beam. You&rsquo;re really not listening.&rdquo; And of
course Paul had allowed himself already to get into a state of
self-pity. And then when she confronted him with the answer, he saw her
as finding fault with him and maintained the distraction further by
arguing with her and being unkind to her by suggesting that she was
being thoughtless and insensitive, and you know, you don&rsquo;t beat the guy
when he&rsquo;s already down, et cetera. Here, she was presenting to him what
would allow him to get out of his funk and he saw it as even more reason
to stay in his funk.

Now, the point is that as long as you are seeing yourself as an
independent agent, as long as you&rsquo;re seeing yourself in your own right,
which ultimately means your own wrongness, you are experiencing
vulnerability. You are experiencing vulnerability. No matter how numb
you&rsquo;ve become to it, you are experiencing vulnerability. And the only
answer, the only resolution to that vulnerability is to stop maintaining
your independent autonomous standpoint, the idea that you can exist
quote &ldquo;in your own right&rdquo; unquote with your own rights that everyone
else better recognize.

And of course, any action you take to get other people to recognize your
rights is the way mutually-agreed-upon definitions are arrived at. Now
if you can get everyone to agree with you that you have rights of your
own and they agree to give them to you in exchange for your giving them
their rights, you all are working together, consorting together,
conniving together, to keep yourself from seeing where the answer lies,
which is in not maintaining an autonomous stand, an independent stand.

I will tell you something and I&rsquo;m telling Paul something. The more
experience you have at being joined with Me or with the Holy Spirit, the
more experience you get at being in Communion, the more you&rsquo;re going to
find acts of independence to be increasingly uncomfortable. And so what
used to not bother you so much, will now become extremely bothersome.
And being unjoined will be an increasingly uncomfortable experience. In
fact, I believe this is what we talked about last week. And this is the
way you learn that there is no value in independent autonomous activity,
or the attempt to engage in independent autonomous activity. The more
uncomfortable it becomes, the less value you will find in it. The more
apparent it will become that when you are joined, when you are seeking
not to be alone and you are letting involvement occur with Me or with
the Holy Spirit or with the Father, the more the peace and the stability
and the experience of invulnerability that you have in that joined place
will be obviously desirable.

And so in this process of strenuous back and forth flip-flopping you
begin to learn that you want to choose again, that you want to choose
something new, that it really is more valuable to be joined, not with
other egos in mutually-agreed-upon definitions, but with Me or the Holy
Spirit or the Father in the Experience of Unity and Harmony and
Wholeness. And then, because that&rsquo;s what you enjoy more than suffering,
you will put your weight on the side of your Peace. And you will not
value the stance that gives you suffering. And so this is the way you
learn.

It all seems too simple perhaps. It deprives me of having fresh new ways
to tell you how to wake up because at the bottom line you have only one
problem and that is that you have chosen to dissociate yourself, to
separate yourself from your Source and attempt to exist in that
imaginary, foolish, insane state of mind. The only answer to all of your
problems, to the problem of the human condition, is breaking the
isolation, turning toward the Altar. That is the only solution because
the only problem you&rsquo;re having is your committed conscious intent to try
to imagine yourself as independent and bring that state of independence
into actuality. As a result, I sound monotonous because I can&rsquo;t give you
113,000 different things you could do to wake up. There&rsquo;s only one. That
does make it utterly simple.

Paul found that he was feeling vulnerable but he didn&rsquo;t want to
look at why. He felt vulnerable. He felt unloved. He felt disrespected.
He felt discounted. On and on and on. And, you know, rather than project
out on anyone, he wanted to make himself smaller and more private and
just be in the sense of justified misery. Like to hell with everyone
else. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m just going to be privately miserable. I
won&rsquo;t make waves for anyone.  I&rsquo;ll be kind. You know, I
won&rsquo;t make waves.&rdquo;

But of course his behavior changed. And those around him, like his wife,
noticed that he was reclusive and uncommunicative. And so she boldly
brought it to his attention. &ldquo;What&rsquo;s wrong?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Ah, you don&rsquo;t want to hear about it. I don&rsquo;t want to
talk about it.&rdquo;

&ldquo;No, talk about it.&rdquo;

So he talked about it and ten words got out of his mouth and it was
obvious to her what the problem was and she interrupted him. But now he
was getting a little satisfaction out of somebody hearing his misery,
right, and wanted more time at the podium. And so now she was
thoughtlessly interrupting him when she had asked him,
&ldquo;What&rsquo;s wrong?&rdquo; When she spoke up with the correction,
what would correct the problem since there was no need to go on at
length about the problem, he demanded the right to have it, or to be
able to criticize her for being inconsistent. &ldquo;Well, you asked me.
At least give me the opportunity to answer you.&rdquo; You see?

You see the ego technique of self-protection, of self-protection of this
imagined state of independence, will not allow for what will undo its
intent to be private, its intent to be self-directed and self-governed.
And so it does everything it can to distract.

First, it distracted Paul privately. It said, &ldquo;Yeah, you have a right to
just sog. You have a right to just be quiet and not bother anybody.&rdquo;
Okay, distraction number one.

Then Susan says, &ldquo;Hey guy,&rdquo; in so many words,
&ldquo;What&rsquo;s going on? You&rsquo;re not acting like
yourself.&rdquo; Ah! Now we have distraction number two. Now we&rsquo;re
not going to talk about &hellip; we&rsquo;re not going to engage in
sogging, we&rsquo;re going to engage in defending against the imposition
someone else is providing that would keep you from sogging. And so now
whoever it is that provides this, whether it&rsquo;s a crying baby, or a
barking dog, or Susan confronting Paul with the answer, an attack on
this bothersome element becomes a further distraction.

You see? You get sort of a zigzag course further and further away from
the simple answer which is to turn toward the Altar, to break the
isolation. All of the distractions are relative to the original problem.
But they all are distractions to your finding the answer and employing
the answer.

Now, what we&rsquo;ve been talking about relates to what we are going to be
reading about, so let us go to the book. The subject of this section is:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*Creation and Communication*[^2]

It should be clear by now that, while the content of any particular
ego-illusion does not matter, it is usually more helpful to correct it
in a specific context. Ego-illusions are QUITE specific, although they
frequently change, and although the mind is naturally abstract.
</div>

Remember again that when it is referring to the Mind, it&rsquo;s referring to
the Christ Mind, the Christ of each one of you who is imagining that
he&rsquo;s not the Christ, behaving as though he&rsquo;s not the Christ, and
believing his behavior.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The mind nevertheless becomes concrete voluntarily as soon as it splits.
</div>

As soon as it says, &ldquo;Father, I would rather see it my way. I&rsquo;d rather do
it my way. I&rsquo;d rather be the one to say what everything means.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
However, only PART of it splits, so only PART of it is concrete. The
concrete part is the same part that believes in the ego because the ego
DEPENDS on the specific. It is the part that believes your existence
means you are SEPARATE.

Everything the ego perceives is a separate whole, without the
relationships that imply BEING.
</div>

It sees everything as a separate whole. It&rsquo;s like this plant here, the
African violet, or the tree you see out in the yard. You think it is a
discrete wholeness in it itself. But you know what? Well, let me say
this. You also think of water as a thing in itself, a wholeness. You
know that you need to water the tree. So you put the water in the ground
and you know the tree will drink it up. But you know what? The tree
doesn&rsquo;t have any way to get the water into its roots. There are
organisms that live on the surface of the roots. They depend upon the
tree for their existence as well as the water, and what they do with the
water transfers the water to the roots, makes it possible for the roots
to absorb the water. So, the tree isn&rsquo;t a whole on its own. It cannot
exist without these organisms. And these organisms can&rsquo;t exist without
the tree. And the tree and the organisms can&rsquo;t exist without the water.
Everything is interdependent. Nothing is discrete and whole in itself.
You know what? You need absolutely everything that exists. And
everything that exists, whether it&rsquo;s the African violet or the tree
outside, needs you.

Nothing, absolutely nothing exists independently. The ego suggests that
if something is truly independent, not dependent on anything else, it is
eternal. If you didn&rsquo;t have to eat, if you didn&rsquo;t have to drink, if your
cells were embodying wholeness in themselves, you would be eternal. Your
body would be eternal. No. Your eternality depends upon absolutely every
other part of Creation. It&rsquo;s in the Wholeness of All That Is that your
Eternality awaits you.

But that means you&rsquo;ve got to give up this age-old quest for
independence. It means that you have to allow for the fact that you fit
in, not stand out. You&rsquo;ve got to yield to the Wholeness. You&rsquo;ve got to
let yourself be part of the Wholeness. And initially, that&rsquo;s the way it
will look to you. It will look to you as though this little thing that
you are has to say, &ldquo;Okay, I&rsquo;m willing to be a part of Infinity, a part
of Creation, not the author of it, not being in some special position
riding on God&rsquo;s shoulder separate and apart not needing it all, but
being able to enjoy it maybe through God&rsquo;s eyes.&rdquo;

You&rsquo;ve got to find out that you fit in. This is very humbling to the
ego. It&rsquo;s actually humiliating to the ego. It is incapable of being
humble. When you have had enough misery as a result of the attempt to be
independent, when you&rsquo;ve had enough misery from that that you are
willing to join, you are willing to yield into, you are willing to find
where you fit in, that breaks the isolation. And that&rsquo;s what opens the
door for your Mind to resume Its Function, which is to be the Presence
of capital &ldquo;M&rdquo; Mind which is God, in which you are Experiencing All As
The Infinitude Of Your Being because you are not claiming a being
separate from the Movement of God which is the Meaning of the word
&ldquo;Be-ing.&rdquo;

And so, ultimately [cell phone ringing] you find that you are not a part
of anything. You are the Whole Itself. [more ringing, audience
amusement] Part of Mark&rsquo;s infinitude has just tried to connect with him.
So again, once you yield to being part of the Whole and Joining occurs,
you come back into your right Mind in which you are no longer a part of
the Whole, but You Are The Experience Of The Wholeness knowing that
every other part of the Wholeness is essential, and that no part of it
is superior, no part of it is special. No part of it is actually
separate in any way.

Let&rsquo;s continue. Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Everything the ego perceives is a separate whole&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; w-h-o-l-e &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; without the relationships that imply BEING. The ego is thus
AGAINST communication, except in so far as it &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; communication &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is utilized to ESTABLISH separateness rather than to abolish it.
</div>

That means that when you&rsquo;re not connected and you are experiencing
ongoing uneasiness which you may have become numb to, you nevertheless
continue to use communication solely for the purpose of reinforcing
separateness. That&rsquo;s very important to understand. If you realize that
at all times when you are not joined, all communication occurs for the
purpose of establishing and maintaining separateness, you will find more
justification for questioning the way you&rsquo;re perceiving things. You&rsquo;ll
find more justification for saying, &ldquo;Mmmm, maybe I ought to actively try
to employ a different way of relating with everyone and everything.&rdquo;
Because at the bottom line you don&rsquo;t want to unconsciously be engaging
in something detrimental to your Sanity and something detrimental to
everyone else&rsquo;s Sanity. You really don&rsquo;t want to be constantly engaged
in reinforcing your uneasiness, your discomfort, your illness, your
frustration, your jealousy, or well everything that accompanies the
human condition.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The communication system of the ego is based on its own thought system,
as is everything else it dictates. Its communication is controlled by
its need to protect itself, and it will disrupt communication when it
experiences threat.
</div>

Which is, of course, what Paul was doing with Susan for two weeks
because for two weeks she tried to establish communication.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
While this is always so, individual egos perceive different kinds of
threat, which are quite specific in their own judgment. For example,
although all forms of perceived demands may be classified, or judged, by
the ego as coercive communication which must be disrupted, the response
of breaking communication will nevertheless be to a SPECIFIC person or
persons.
</div>

So, here it is folks. As long as you&rsquo;re not joined, you are using and
abusing each other and nothing else. The interesting thing is that you
don&rsquo;t have to abuse each other harshly. All you have to do is just
maintain a gentle level of abuse in order to keep yourself from waking
up. Just a constant, slight undercurrent of thoughtlessness or
judgmental words, just ever so slight is all it takes. So it isn&rsquo;t like
you&rsquo;re all mentally raping each other, or physically punching each
other, or doing grossly abusive things. All you have to do is just be a
little out of sync with each other, just a little out of sync with each
other in order to maintain an edge to things that keeps union from
occurring, that keeps you from engaging with that Place of Excellence
that is in You and from there joining with your Brother or Sister in the
Place of Excellence in Them.

You know what? Trees, flowers, dogs and cats, mosquitoes, rocks, leaves,
can contribute nothing to the development of mutually-agreed-upon
definitions. All of your illusions occur as a result of manipulative
communication with each other. Nothing, not the world, not the universe,
not physics, nothing creates illusion for you except the way you use
each other. You know, it doesn&rsquo;t say in the Course that I looked at a
rock and remembered God, or that I looked at a tree and remembered God.
I looked into my Brother&rsquo;s eyes and remembered God.

So there&rsquo;s only one problem you have. And that problem is having chosen
to imaginatively create in your mind a space in which you could conceive
of yourself as being independent and autonomous from the Mind of God,
which is the only Mind you have, and then you bind yourself to that by
the way you interact with each other. So now you could say we have two
steps involved in coming Home. One is to abandon your attempts to be
autonomous and independent so that you might join with the Father once
again or with Me or with the Holy Spirit in Inner Communion so that you
might be infilled with perspective not embraced by the definitions
you&rsquo;ve given to everything. And the second part of it is that you must
stop using each other to confirm your autonomy.

And that&rsquo;s why in order to wake up you must have an object of your
affection. And that object of your affection is not a cat, is not a
flower, is not a tree, is not a chair, is not a star, but it&rsquo;s the
person, the Brother or Sister next to you. And you must find a way
within yourself to care enough about them to want to extend to them
something excellent. And the only place you can get something excellent
to extend to them is from some place other than this imaginary space
you&rsquo;ve made for yourself that you&rsquo;ve identified as the totality of what
you are. In other words, Me or the Holy Spirit or God.

I and the Holy Spirit will only be conveying to you the Father&rsquo;s Will.
So however you approach it, whether it is through Me or the Holy Spirit
or the Father, you&rsquo;re still only approaching the Father. You&rsquo;re still
only inviting in a conscious embrace of your Source with the
acknowledgement that you are not the source of yourself.

So it&rsquo;s very simple. You have to turn toward God but the only
justification for turning toward God that will contribute to your
awakening is that what the Father gives you in response to your opening
up to Him is to be a gift to someone else&mdash;your Brother, your Sister,
your Fellowman. Isn&rsquo;t it wonderful? The Wholeness of the manner of
coming Home and the fact that in order for you to come Home, everyone
else has to be embraced with you so that no one is left out.

&ldquo;Oooh, well, that&rsquo;s more work than I thought it was going to be.&rdquo; No.
The only thing that will make it work is your reluctance to actually be
willing to care, to actually be willing to Love your Brother or your
Sister. It&rsquo;s not the loving that&rsquo;s hard. It&rsquo;s breaking down your
resistance, it&rsquo;s freeing up your willingness to extend Love, to be
Loving.

Okay. Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The specificity of the ego&rsquo;s thinking, then, results in a spurious kind
of generalization which is really not abstract at all. It will respond
in certain specific ways to ALL stimuli which it perceives as related.
In contrast, the Soul reacts in the same way to everything it knows is
true, and does not respond at all to anything else. Nor does it make any
attempt to ESTABLISH what is true. It knows that what is true is
everything that God created. It &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Soul &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is in complete and direct communication with every aspect of
creation because it is in complete and direct communication with its
Creator.

THIS communication IS the Will of God.
</div>

Now listen to this.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Creation and communication are synonymous.
</div>

Creation is a gift. It&rsquo;s an extension. Not just sort of poufed out into
empty space. Not something extruded into a waiting vessel. Communication
is the extension of something to something else, to someone. When the
word &ldquo;hello&rdquo; is said, it is said to someone who can hear the word. It
isn&rsquo;t printed on a page and put on a bulletin board out on a telephone
post out in the middle of the desert where someone may see it if they
happen to be going down that road where that telephone pole is.
Communication is something extended to someone or something that it can
register with; where dialogue, interchange can occur.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Creation and communication are synonymous.
</div>

Now, listen.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God created every mind by communicating His Mind to it, thus
establishing it forever as a channel for the reception of His Mind and
Will.
</div>

We were talking last week about the bad rap that channeling gets, but
let&rsquo;s face it. It&rsquo;s your Function to glorify God. It&rsquo;s
your Function to represent God. It&rsquo;s your Function to make the
Gift of your Source.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Since only beings of a like order can truly communicate, His creations
naturally communicate WITH Him and LIKE Him.
</div>

Mind you now, we&rsquo;re talking about the Christ That You Are right at
this moment in spite of the definition you&rsquo;ve currently given
yourself and which you&rsquo;re currently committed to. We&rsquo;re
talking about the fully Christed Ones that each one of you are right
here, but which you&rsquo;re not availing yourself of and you&rsquo;re
not employing, you might say, in everything you do.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Since only beings of a like order can truly communicate, His creations
naturally communicate WITH Him and LIKE Him. This communication is
perfectly abstract in that its quality is universal in application, and
not subject to ANY judgment, ANY exception, or ANY alteration. God
created you BY this and FOR this. The mind &hellip;
</div>

Not the ego, the Mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; can distort its function, but it cannot endow itself with
functions it was not given. That is why the mind cannot totally lose the
ability to communicate, even though it may refuse to utilize it on
behalf of being.

Existence as well as being rests on communication.
</div>

Makes it sound like existence and Being are two separate things. And
there is a distinction. Existence is the definition you&rsquo;ve given
to the Experience of Being. Being is the Experience of Mind, with a
capital &ldquo;M&rdquo;, seeing All That It Infinitely Is and
recognizing Itself in It.  Being is a total Experience. You might say
the Infinite Experience Of Being is totally grasped, totally understood,
totally felt, without a single thought occurring, and therefore without
a single definition being attached to it. Existence is Being with
definitions attached to it.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Existence as well as being rests on communication. Existence, however,
is SPECIFIC in how, what, and with whom communication is judged to be
worth undertaking. Being is completely without these distinctions. It is
a state in which the mind IS in communication with everything that is
real, including the Soul. To whatever extent you permit this state to be
curtailed, you are limiting your sense of your OWN reality, which
becomes total only by your recognizing ALL reality in the glorious
context of its REAL relationship to you.
</div>

In other words, when you realize how you fit in to it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This IS your reality.
</div>

You are in relationship with All That Exists, with All of Creation.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Do not desecrate it or recoil from it. It is your real home, your real
temple, and your real Self.

God, Who encompasses ALL being, nevertheless created beings who have
everything individually, but who want to share it &hellip;
</div>

Who want to share it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; to increase their joy. Nothing that is real can be increased
EXCEPT by sharing.
</div>

Gift.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
That is why God Himself created you.
</div>

You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Divine Abstraction takes joy in application, and that is what creation
MEANS.
</div>

Divine Abstraction left abstract is non-existent creation.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Divine Abstraction takes joy in application, and that is what creation
MEANS. &ldquo;How,&rdquo; &ldquo;what&rdquo; and &ldquo;to whom&rdquo;
are irrelevant because real creation gives everything, since it can
create ONLY like itself. Remember that in being there is no difference
between &ldquo;having&rdquo; and &ldquo;being,&rdquo; as there is in
existence. In the state of being, the mind gives everything always.

The Bible repeatedly states that you should praise God. This hardly
means that you should tell Him how wonderful He is. He has no ego with
which to accept such thanks, and no perception with which to judge such
offerings. But unless you take your part in the creation, His joy is not
complete because YOURS is incomplete. And THIS He does know. He knows it
in His own Being and Its experience of His Son&rsquo;s experience. The
constant GOING OUT of His Love is blocked when His channels are closed,
</div>

You hear that? The constant going out, the constant extension of His
Love, is blocked when His Channels are closed.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and He IS lonely when the minds He created do not communicate
fully with Him.
</div>

&ldquo;Oh dear. How many guilty marks do you get for that? How bad should you
feel?&rdquo; Don&rsquo;t waste your time feeling bad, but just understand the way it
works. Joy is supposed to be your experience. And Joy is supposed to be
the Father&rsquo;s Experience. And so everybody should just get back to the
business of doing what allows that Joy to be, rather than engaging in
this idiotic preference to try to be independent and make independence
real and as a result constantly feel an undercurrent that causes you to
mistreat each other.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God HAS kept your kingdom for you, but He cannot share His joy with you
until you know it with your whole mind. Even revelation is not enough,
because it is communication FROM God. It is not enough until it is
SHARED.
</div>

And again, that doesn&rsquo;t mean shared with your cat or your flower garden.
It means with a Brother or a Sister.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God does not need revelation returned to Him, which would clearly be
impossible, but He DOES want revelation brought to others. This cannot
be done with the actual revelation because its content cannot be
expressed, and it is intensely personal to the mind which receives it.
It can, however, still be returned BY that mind &hellip;
</div>

How?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; through its attitudes to OTHER minds which the knowledge from the
revelation brings.
</div>

This is how you praise God. Not by turning around and shooting the
revelation right back to Him, but by sharing it with your Brothers,
confirming Infinite Oneness rather than singular isolation.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God is praised whenever any mind learns to be wholly helpful.
</div>

Hmmmm, helpful. Well, that sounds like caring to me. That means being
thoughtful. That means having someone on your mind besides yourself in a
caring way. Not in the way Paul was treating Susan the last two weeks.
Not in the way that any of you have treated each other when what you
were doing was trying to secure your privacy.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God is praised whenever any mind learns to be wholly helpful. This is
impossible without being wholly harmless because the two &hellip;
</div>

Helpfulness and harmlessness.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the two beliefs coexist. The truly helpful are invulnerable
because they are NOT protecting their egos, so that nothing CAN hurt
them.
</div>

Do you see that? This is a key sentence.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The truly helpful are invulnerable because they are NOT protecting their
egos, so that nothing CAN hurt them.
</div>

Hurt, therefore, is inseparable from an ego in the act of
self-protection. And that&rsquo;s the only source of hurt. That means there&rsquo;s
only one thing you need to stop doing. We&rsquo;re not talking about fifty
lessons you must learn that have 10,000 little adjustments you have to
make in order to come back in alignment with the way things really are
enough to promote a change. There&rsquo;s only one thing you need to stop
doing.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The truly helpful are invulnerable because they are NOT protecting their
egos, so that nothing CAN hurt them. Their helpfulness &hellip;
</div>

In other words, involvement with a Brother or Sister where kindness and
thoughtfulness and caring is being expressed.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; IS their praise of God, and He will return their praise of Him
because they are like Him, and they can rejoice together. God goes out
to them and through them, and there is great joy throughout the Kingdom.
Every mind that is changed adds to this joy with its own individual
willingness to share in it.
</div>

Those last three words need to be in bright red.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Every mind that is changed adds to this joy with its own individual
willingness to &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; share in it. The truly helpful are God&rsquo;s miracle workers, whom I
direct until we are all united in the joy of the Kingdom.
</div>

Another way of saying that is the Joy of our right Mind where no little
part of it has tried to box itself off from the rest.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I will direct you to wherever you can be truly helpful&hellip;
</div>

But, and this isn&rsquo;t in the book, I can&rsquo;t do that until something in you
wants to be truly helpful. And that means being helpful in accomplishing
something beyond self-protection.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I will direct you to wherever you can be truly helpful, and to whoever
can follow my guidance through you.
</div>

Hmmmm, my guidance. Well, it&rsquo;s not my personal guidance and I hope
that&rsquo;s clear to all of you by now. It&rsquo;s not some really neat guidance
that I came up with that I want to spread around the universe through
you guys. My Guidance is nothing more and nothing less than the Father&rsquo;s
Will being extended to you in language that has meaning for you, and in
ways that help your mind re-recognize itself and become willing to stand
forth on its own, if I may put it that way, without employing the ego
for any reason.

I hope as we continue on that it will become clearer and clearer to you
how little is required to wake up. There&rsquo;s only one thing you need
to do, or as we said, two things. One is to abandon your independence by
turning to the Father and saying, &ldquo;Help,&rdquo; or saying:
&ldquo;Thy Will be done,&rdquo; and doing that in the context of wanting
to do His Will for your Brother or your Sister. And I have certainly
been illuminating for some time now the fact that You Are The Christ
right now, using your mind in a way that causes you not to recognize
yourself, and you are doing this with all of the Fullness of the
Christhood That You Are, if you want to put it this way, the Divine
Power of your Being.

And so there&rsquo;s nothing weak about you at this moment. You are with
the Power of the Universe enforcing darkness and blindness and ignorance
upon yourself and claiming that this is your normal state of being.
Therefore, all the Power in the Universe that is the very Nature of your
Being stands ready for you to make a new decision. So you can&rsquo;t
claim that it will take you a long time to wake up because you&rsquo;re
nothing but a piss-ant mortal, a little puny ego that&rsquo;s going to
have to refine itself over many lifetimes and as a result of studying
many thought systems, or that what you&rsquo;re called upon to do is
really, really hard, and therefore it&rsquo;s going take a long time.

So, I&rsquo;m uncovering to you how simple it is, how little it takes
and that because you haven&rsquo;t even at this very moment stopped
being the Ultimate Expression Of God. You include within yourself
everything that is necessary to make the shift. You already include it
in yourself and you are employing all of the power to create for
yourself at this moment the experience you&rsquo;re having. So you
don&rsquo;t have to recharge your batteries.  You don&rsquo;t have to
gas up with a higher octane fuel. All you have to do is stop saying,
&ldquo;I&rsquo;m not the Christ. I&rsquo;m not what you&rsquo;re saying
I am. I know what I am and I know it&rsquo;s going to take a long time
because I&rsquo;ve got change from what I am into something I&rsquo;m
not. And that kind of adjustment is going to be hard. And you
can&rsquo;t expect me to do it overnight.&rdquo;

So, like a drop of water wearing away on a rock, I will keep pointing
out the simplicity of this so that you don&rsquo;t continue to overwhelm
yourself with the so-called impossibility of waking up, or the so-called
difficulty of waking up. And the closer you come to an inner feeling
that it&rsquo;s going to be easy, [snaps fingers] the sooner it&rsquo;s
going to happen. And I&rsquo;m hanging in here with you until
you&rsquo;re willing to accept the possibility that it might be utterly
simple. Not only that but it truly is your Birthright and you
aren&rsquo;t what you thought you were.

We will call it a day. It&rsquo;s joy to express the Truth. It&rsquo;s
even more joy that you&rsquo;re listening, because that means that
there&rsquo;s more oneness.  There&rsquo;s more communion. There&rsquo;s
less defended isolation. And so more of the Brotherhood is experiencing
its Wholeness. You must remember that whatever tinges of Wholeness you
might be experiencing at this moment that&rsquo;s new for you
constitutes a new level of Wholeness for all of the rest of the
Brotherhood that is already awake because now more of their Infinitude
is connected with them. So the gift you give is one that&rsquo;s
received universally.

I love you and I look forward to being with you next week.

[^1]: Students commenting or asking a question.
[^2]: T4.7 Creation and Communication

