---
title: Sep 14, 2003
ref: "T5.1 Healing as Joining"
alink: "/acim/text/05/chap0501/"
---

Okay. Good afternoon to everyone here and to everyone who is joining us
on the internet as well.

Before we begin, I need to mention that, as many of you know and some of
you don&rsquo;t, the Gathering scheduled for next Saturday, September 20th,
has been cancelled. As a result of the announcement, many have gone
through interesting imaginations, and some wild conclusions have been
arrived at. And others have felt that perhaps it was their fault because
of something they did that the Gathering was cancelled. But it&rsquo;s simpler
than that really.

We were speaking last weekend, last Sunday, about rehabilitation. About
the fact that although everyone may think they have the right to behave
in any way they wish, they do not have the right to do it without
objection. And in your thinking processes you should not ever assume
that anything goes, that that is the new metaphysical and spiritual
paradigm, that anything goes and it must be allowed.

In talking about this as I did, it brought home a point to Paul and
Susan regarding something in their lives that was not getting attended
to, that objection was not being made to, and something that literally
calls for rehabilitation. After the meeting was over, they spoke with me
at some length and Paul with me until nearly five in the morning. And in
the course of our conversation I made it clear that indeed this area in
their lives needed to be addressed, and that addressing it was
incompatible with the preparation necessary for the Gathering on the
20th, and that it had higher priority. And so at my direction Paul
announced that the Gathering was cancelled.

The specifics are irrelevant, but I ask that instead of indulging in
vain imaginings, and instead of speculating via the grapevine, that each
one give Paul and Susan the benefit of the doubt and assume the best.
They are about their Father&rsquo;s business, if I may put it that way. And
they are being obedient to the call that is on their plate. It&rsquo;s that
simple.

We will have the Gathering on Sunday, the ACIM Study Group as we are
right now and the format will be as it has been every Sunday.

Okay &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Chapter 5: *Healing and Wholeness*[^1]
</div>

Two words that necessarily go together because healing is always the
uncovering of wholeness. Healing is always the revealing of you to you
as What The Father Is Being right there in all the Fullness of His
Self-Expression. Healing is not the changing of one thing into another.
It&rsquo;s the uncovering of the only thing that could ever have been there
from the beginning, no matter how covered over it has become by your
commitment to a belief that you are less than whole.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To heal is to make happy. I have told you before to think how many
opportunities you have to gladden yourselves, and how many you have
refused. This is exactly the same as telling you that you have refused
to heal yourselves. The light that belongs to you is the light of joy.
Radiance is not associated with sorrow. Depression is often contagious,
but although it may affect those who come in contact with it, they do
not yield to the influence whole-heartedly.
</div>

You all resist depression.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
But joy calls forth an integrated willingness to share in it, and thus
promotes the mind&rsquo;s natural impulse TO RESPOND AS ONE.
</div>

In other words, singularly, not divided up between a desire to be happy
and a desire to be resentful, a desire to feel your Joy and a sense of
necessity to attend to something unpleasant which you therefore have
reluctance to attend to.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; joy calls forth an integrated willingness to share in it, and thus
promotes the mind&rsquo;s natural impulse TO RESPOND AS ONE.

Those who attempt to heal without being wholly joyous themselves call
forth different kinds of responses at the same time&hellip;
</div>

What that means is that you send out different messengers
simultaneously. You send out messengers of expectancy and of hope and of
doubt and of fear. And those messengers go out, find confirmation, and
return to you. And they return to you with conflicted messages which
cause you to continue to be conflicted. Your conflict is reinforced.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Those who attempt to heal without being wholly joyous themselves call
forth different kinds of responses at the same time, and thus deprive
others of the joy of responding whole-heartedly. To be whole-hearted,
you MUST be happy. If fear and love cannot coexist, and if it is
impossible to be wholly fearful and remain alive&hellip;
</div>

Which of course isn&rsquo;t an option you have available to you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; then the only possible whole state IS that of love.
</div>

So then, what&rsquo;s the first essential element in the healing of your mind
that will constitute the healing of your world, of your neighbor, of
your friend, your brother, et cetera? It is your willingness to abandon
fear right where fear seems to be called for, whether it&rsquo;s behavior that
arouses fear in you, whether it&rsquo;s a physical condition that arouses fear
in you. You must be willing to abandon the fear and move into that Place
in You where Love is felt, where your Love is available. That must be
more important to you than reacting to fear.

That is part of the healing process. If you are going to be a healer,
you would have to make commitment to that first step constantly. You
would know that&rsquo;s the way it works and therefore this is my task. This
is the way I do it. I consciously choose to abandon my inclination to
react with fear, and instead I insist upon connecting with my
ever-present capacity to feel and be the Presence of Love so that from
that Love I may extend a singularity of intent and send out only one
kind of messenger, so that it might return to me with confirmation of
Its Energy, of Its Intent, and of Its Blessing.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[Raj did not read: There is no difference between love and joy.
Therefore, the only possible whole state is the wholly joyous.]
{: .omit}

To heal or to make joyous is therefore the same as to integrate and to
MAKE ONE. That is why it makes no difference to what part or by what
part of the Sonship the healing is done. EVERY part benefits, and
benefits equally.
</div>

I know that most of the time all of you feel alone, but listen to this.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
YOU are being blessed by every beneficent thought of any of your
brothers anywhere.
</div>

If you will remember that, it will cancel out your feeling of isolation,
and you will find yourself receptive to the Experience of the Love
embodied in those beneficent thoughts, and you will realize just how
much value there is in your extending to your Brothers and Sisters only
beneficent thoughts.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Raj did not read: You should want to bless them in return, out of
gratitude.]
{: .omit}

You do not have to know them individually&hellip;
</div>

The ones from whom those beneficent thoughts come.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You do not have to know them individually, or they you. The light is so
strong that it radiates throughout the Sonship, and returns thanks to
the Father for radiating His joy upon it. Only God&rsquo;s holy children are
worthy to be channels of His beautiful joy&hellip;
</div>

And let me be very clear right now. He doesn&rsquo;t have any unholy children
so it isn&rsquo;t a classification that maybe you&rsquo;re in and maybe you&rsquo;re not.
The reason it says this is that:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Only God&rsquo;s holy children are worthy to be channels of His beautiful joy,
because only they are beautiful enough to hold it by sharing it. It is
impossible for a Child of God to love his neighbor EXCEPT as himself.
That is why the healer&rsquo;s prayer is:

&ldquo;Let me know this brother as I know myself.&rdquo;
</div>

Whether you say the prayer or not, it&rsquo;s a Law. It&rsquo;s the way it works.
And so you can reverse it and say, &ldquo;As I know myself, I know my
brother.&rdquo; That&rsquo;s just the way it is. So how do you know yourself at the
moment? A bastard, a prick, a bitch? A difficult person, a cranky
person, someone in her period? Whatever way you know yourself, you have
no capacity to see anyone else differently. And the way you are knowing
yourself is what constitutes the messengers you send out into your world
to look for confirmation.

Now if the messengers are coming from the ego, they are as dishonest as
the ego. And so they will always lie when they return and confirm to you
what they were sent out to find. They haven&rsquo;t the capacity to return
true messages to you. And that&rsquo;s important to understand.

Again, you must understand that when you send liars out, they will come
back with lies and confirm to you your belief about yourself, and
therefore your belief will end up coloring everyone in your experience
with lies. So you can&rsquo;t escape what you have set into motion.

Take a look at that honestly, because in looking at it honestly, it will
allow you to make a new choice as to what messengers you&rsquo;re willing to
send out. And if the messengers, coming from your ego structures, from
your mutually-agreed-upon definitions and your misperceptions of Truth,
cannot but report to you that which confirms your sad state of being,
then you, understanding that, will choose to go to a different source to
learn what messages to send out, what messengers to send out.

You will learn that if you want to escape suffering, and if you wish to
escape the confirmation of the need for suffering, you must find that
Place of Excellence in You so that you might be informed by It about
yourself, and in that informing, have new messengers to send out which
will then confirm to you your Holiness when they return, by confirming
to you your Brother&rsquo;s and your Sister&rsquo;s Holiness to you.

That&rsquo;s called making one. That&rsquo;s called becoming undivided. That&rsquo;s
called becoming unfragmented. That&rsquo;s called becoming singular in intent.
And what is singular in intent is singular in result. It&rsquo;s a Law. It&rsquo;s
absolutely dependable. And equally dependable is that fragmented
messengers sent out will come back with fragmented confirmation of your
sad state of existence, even though it will be a lie.

Next heading.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*Healing as Joining*

Healing is an act of thought by which two minds perceive their oneness
and become glad.
</div>

And become glad!

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This gladness calls to every part of the Sonship to rejoice with them,
</div>

&hellip; because there are no private thoughts &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and lets God Himself go out into them and through them.
</div>

The messengers you send out from the Place of Excellence in You are
Messengers of God. They go out with God&rsquo;s Message of His Joy and His
Love. And they confirm His Presence in every one and every thing they
meet. And they return to you, not with threats of war, but with an olive
branch in its beak.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Only the healed mind can experience revelation with lasting effect
because revelation is an experience of pure joy.
</div>

Okay. &ldquo;Only the healed mind,&rdquo; that means only the mind which by your
conscious choice has become singular in intent, even if it&rsquo;s only for
the space of ten minutes, or five minutes, or two.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Only the healed mind can experience revelation with lasting effect
because revelation is an experience of pure joy. If you do not choose to
be wholly joyous, your mind cannot HAVE what it does not choose to BE.
</div>

Again, it&rsquo;s just the way it works.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Remember that the Soul knows no difference between &ldquo;being&rdquo;
and &ldquo;having.&rdquo; The higher mind thinks according to the laws
which the Soul obeys, and therefore honors only the laws of God. To Him,
getting is meaningless and giving is all. Having everything, the Soul
HOLDS everything BY giving it, and thus creates as the Father created.

If you think about it, you will see that, while this kind of thinking is
totally alien to having THINGS, even to the lower mind it is quite
comprehensible in connection with IDEAS.
</div>

Which is what we&rsquo;ve just been talking about.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you share a physical possession, you DO divide its ownership. If you
share an idea, however, you do NOT lessen it. ALL of it is still yours,
although all of it has been given away.
</div>

By the sending out of the Messengers of Love.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Further, if the person to whom you give it accepts it as HIS, he
reinforces it in YOUR mind&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the messengers come back confirming the Truth &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and thus INCREASES it. If you can accept the concept that the
world IS one of ideas, the whole belief in the false association which
the ego makes between giving and LOSING is gone.
</div>

Let&rsquo;s not turn that page too fast. Let&rsquo;s not skip over something
important here.

If you can accept the concept. It&rsquo;s really the Truth but it&rsquo;s easier for
you to think of it as a concept at the moment. If you can accept the
concept that the world is one of ideas. Is one of ideas. It&rsquo;s not a
world of matter. It&rsquo;s a world constituted of God&rsquo;s Ideas, Pure Spirit.

Ideas which embody the Intent of their Source, that being God, and the
Intent of their Source, being God, is to embody and express God
perfectly. His Nature. His Character. His Intent. His Singularity, and
therefore the impossibility of His Expression being conflicted.
Therefore demonstrating the fact that every Idea Of God is a Joyful
Idea, a Joyful Idea the Substance of which is the Spirit of God.

And once again, we&rsquo;re talking about the petal on the rose, [tapping] the
glass on the table top, your fingernail. It&rsquo;s an Idea. And it&rsquo;s not an
idea an ego made-up. Your ego may have made-up a secondary definition
about a Primal, Original, Eternal Idea Of God. But That About Which it
created a definition is Real and It is Spirit. And It embodies God and
His Singularity, and therefore it is the Embodiment of Joy in the act of
giving Its Joy away to be experienced by all universally. Now that&rsquo;s the
fact.

And that&rsquo;s the fact about an appendix that&rsquo;s about ready to burst. And
that&rsquo;s the fact about a part of the body that seems to be cancerous. And
that&rsquo;s the fact about a digestive tract that doesn&rsquo;t seem to be
functioning properly.

But you&rsquo;re not going to be able to see it and experience it until you&rsquo;re
willing to become a healer who knows, first of all, that it&rsquo;s necessary
for him or her to abandon the inclination to react to the appearance, or
to the symptoms, or to the definitions, that seem to be embodied and to
choose for your Peace so that your mind might become single. And so that
in that Peace you might access the Place of Excellence in You in which
God&rsquo;s Perspective is available to you so that you might sent out new
messengers that are unconflicted which will return to you confirming
Purity, Integrity, Healing.

Now you may turn the page.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Let us start our process of reawakening with just a few simple concepts:

&ldquo;Thoughts INCREASE by being given away. The more who believe in them,
the STRONGER they become. EVERYTHING is an idea. How, then, is it
possible that giving and losing CAN be meaningfully associated?&rdquo;
</div>

Mind you, this statement is absolute, whether we&rsquo;re talking about
Thoughts conveyed to you by God or thoughts created by your separated,
defensive little ego. They increase by being given away. The more you
believe, the more who believe in them, the stronger they become.

So the first step is to become single-minded so that the thoughts that
increase by being given away are Thoughts expressing and embodying the
Singularity and the Integrity and the Loving Purpose that is the
Movement of God&rsquo;s Mind.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is the invitation to the Holy Spirit. I told you that I could reach
up and bring the Holy Spirit down to you, but I can bring Him to you
ONLY at your own invitation.
</div>

Now listen to this, and don&rsquo;t forget it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit is nothing more than your own right mind.
</div>

I&rsquo;ve said before that the Holy Spirit is your Divinity held in trust
while you dally with the ego.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit is nothing more than your own right mind.
</div>

Now let&rsquo;s be very clear on something here, because your ego is
likely to take hold of this and say, &ldquo;Ah! It&rsquo;s me!
It&rsquo;s me when I&rsquo;m being right.  You don&rsquo;t have to reach
beyond yourself because it&rsquo;s your own right mind.&rdquo;

Well, let&rsquo;s be very clear. As long as you are identifying as an ego, as
long as you are committed to the mutually-agreed-upon definitions that
you and other egos have come to, you are operating according to an
entirely different set of rules than the Holy Spirit, which is your
Right Mind, is working by. There is no compatibility between the two.

And so you will not be able to say, &ldquo;Oh, I&rsquo;m just going to
have a clearer and clearer experience of myself. We&rsquo;re gonna start
with who I think I am right now and this self that I think I am is going
to become clearer and clearer and clearer. So, I will have more faith in
the excellence of this self I think I am because, well, after all Raj
has said, &lsquo;There&rsquo;s a Place of Excellence in
You.&rsquo;&rdquo; No. I didn&rsquo;t say there was a Place of
Excellence in your ego. I didn&rsquo;t say there was a Place of
Excellence in this one you think you are. I said there was a Place of
Excellence in You that is not the one you think you are.

And so you are going to have to still reach beyond your present sense of
things and your present sense of yourself as though you are reaching out
to something entirely different from you. If you do not reach out to
something beyond your present sense of yourself, there will be no
yielding. There will be no relinquishment of any sense of personal
authority. There will be no place where you will say, &ldquo;Thy Will be
done,&rdquo; that means something other than your personal will being done.

Now the simple fact is that when you reach out to the Holy Spirit, your
Real Mind, the Holy Spirit will respond, but it will respond according
to God&rsquo;s Laws. It will respond, you might say, according to the
Infrastructure Of What God Is, where[as] your ego is always responding
to the infrastructure of the mutually-agreed-upon definitions.

This is very important. As you reach out to the Holy Spirit, which is
the way you become One, which is the way you make one out of that which
seemed to be split, as you do this you become informed about being from
a new level, you might say, with new rules. The first of which is you
are not in charge, but something is. And you won&rsquo;t find out what that
something is until you relinquish the authority you think you have and
embody enough trust in what you don&rsquo;t yet know consciously that it might
begin to reveal itself to you.

And as this revealing of the new order of things begins to dawn in your
mind and you begin to become familiar with It, instead of the stranger
to It that you are, then you find yourself having a continuing and
growing capacity to yield into It with even more commitment. And as this
happens, you will begin to recognize your Self in your Right Mind in the
Experiences of Singularity that you&rsquo;re having. And as this is yielded
into further and further, you bring into pay less and less commitment to
the definition you have given yourself. And with joy and confidence, you
will express less and less faith in how the ego had determined
everything worked. And so this sense of yourself that you had been
maintaining will begin to shrivel for lack of investment of confidence
and commitment. It will begin to fade and give up the ghost. You see?
This is the way it works.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit is nothing more than your own right mind.
</div>

And I&rsquo;m going to add: although it is much more and completely different
in nature and character and function than what you&rsquo;re calling your mind
at the moment.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit is nothing more than your own right mind. He was also
mine. The Bible says, &ldquo;May the mind be in you that was also in Christ
Jesus,&rdquo; and uses this as a BLESSING. It is the blessing of
miracle-mindedness.
</div>

Healing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It asks that you may think as I thought, joining with me in
Christ-thinking.
</div>

Now, as we continue through the book, and as you read the book on your
own, no matter where you are when you read the words &ldquo;Holy Spirit,&rdquo;
remember this:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit is nothing more than your own right mind.
</div>

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit is the only part of the Holy Trinity which is symbolic.
He is referred to in the Bible as the Healer, the Comforter, and the
Guide. He is also described as something &ldquo;separate,&rdquo; apart from the
Father and from the Son.
</div>

Which I&rsquo;ve already explained.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I myself said, &ldquo;If I go I will send you another comforter, and He will
abide with you.&rdquo;
</div>

Now the fact is that this Comforter came into existence the moment you
decided to imagine that you could have an independent thought, because
you couldn&rsquo;t get rid of your Right Mind, even if you were using it
stupidly. And so, It simply became unavailable to you because you chose
to ignore It, but stayed present as your Divinity held in trust while
you chose to ignore It.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit is a difficult concept to grasp precisely because it IS
symbolic, and therefore open to many different interpretations.
</div>

Now, that confusion should be over because I&rsquo;ve made it very clear.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As a man and as one of God&rsquo;s creations, my right thinking, which came
from the Universal Inspiration which IS the Holy Spirit, taught me first
and foremost that this Inspiration is for all. I could not have It
myself WITHOUT knowing this.
</div>

You see? Everything you learn about your Real Mind, about your Real
Self, is something you learn about every other individual who exists.
And if you don&rsquo;t know that, you don&rsquo;t yet Know the Truth About Yourself.
Waking up does not happen exclusively. It is impossible for it to be an
experience of specialness.

Continuing, repeating &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I could not have It myself WITHOUT knowing this.

The word &ldquo;know&rdquo; &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; k-n-o-w &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is proper in this context, because the Holy Inspiration is so
close to knowledge that It calls it forth; or better, allows it to come.
</div>

Or best, allows it to come. In fact, allowing it to come is really the
only way it comes. When you have ceased to express private, assertive
authority of your own, you allow it to come because you&rsquo;re not blocking
it with an imaginative sense of your having a will of your own.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
We have spoken before of the higher, or the &ldquo;true&rdquo; perception, which is
so close to truth that God Himself can flow across the little gap.
Knowledge is always ready to flow everywhere, but it cannot oppose.
Therefore, you can obstruct it, although you can never lose it. The Holy
Spirit is the Christ Mind Which senses the knowledge that lies beyond
perception.
</div>

In other words, beyond your mutually-agreed-upon definitions.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It came into being with the separation as a protection, inspiring the
beginning of the Atonement at the same time.
</div>

In other words, the minute you went off on an imaginative path that was
impossible to go on, there was at that very moment the means of
retracing the path established. Why? Because, as we&rsquo;ve said in the last
few weeks, you had to use your Christ Mind, you had to use your basic
[laugh] Divine Capacity to imagine an illusion, and then attempt to
imagine that you could make the illusion real. And since you are using
your God-given Capacity, your Christ Mind, if I may put it that way, to
behave as though you&rsquo;re not the Christ and believe your behavior, the
fact that you&rsquo;re doing it with your Christhood constitutes the
ever-present Capacity to return to your Right Mind, to a realization
that indeed You Are The Christ and never stopped. You see?

You couldn&rsquo;t get outside of your Divinity to have an
experience of quote &ldquo;the human condition&rdquo; unquote. And so the means of
coming back into your Right Mind has been present with you every step of
the way as you attempted to get further and further away from It. Your
movement away created the path back, because you never could stop Being
What You Divinely Are. It&rsquo;s that simple.

So, the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; came into being with the separation as a protection, inspiring the
beginning of the Atonement at the same time. Before that, there was no
need for healing, and no-one was comfortless.
</div>

Is the simplicity of this becoming clearer and clearer? It&rsquo;s referred to
as a journey without distance. Is the distancelessness of it becoming
clearer to you? And the fact that you have never become enervated? The
Divine Energy Of You As The Christ has never been drained from you, and
therefore you&rsquo;re not in a weakened state at this moment. You&rsquo;re just
really excellent actors behaving as though the Energy Of Spirit, your
Divine Energy, has vacated the premises of you. And you&rsquo;re tired, and
you&rsquo;re exhausted, and you don&rsquo;t have in you what it takes to re-embrace
your Divinity, and therefore, it&rsquo;s gonna be a struggle. A struggle that
is going to deserve for you all the gold stars in the heavens when you
finally make it back to God. You are not enervated. And the Energy Of
Spirit, the Divine Energy Of Your Being is in full use right now, but
you&rsquo;re using it to cover up the Truth About You to yourself. All the
Energy it takes, all the Divine Capacity it takes to reawaken, to come
back into your Right Mind, is actively in use right now. It just needs
to be put to a different use. And what&rsquo;s the different use? It&rsquo;s
embodied in the words, &ldquo;Not my will, but Thine, be done.&rdquo;

Continuing. The next section &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*The Mind of the Atonement*

God honored even the miscreations of His Children because they had made
them, but He also blessed them with a way of thinking that could raise
their perceptions until they became so lofty that they could reach
almost back to Him. The Holy Spirit is the Mind of the Atonement.
</div>

Your Right Mind is the capital &ldquo;M&rdquo; Mind of the Atonement. In other
words, the very Mind which is behaving as though it&rsquo;s not Divine is
Itself the means of coming back Home by choosing to abandon its use of
Itself to create a mask of ignorance of the Truth.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit is the Mind of the Atonement. It represents a state of
mind that comes close enough to One-Mindedness that transfer to it is at
last possible. Transfer depends on common elements in the old learning
and the new situation to which it is transferred. Perception is not
knowledge, but it can be transferred TO knowledge, or CROSS OVER into
it. It might even be more helpful here to use the literal meaning of
&ldquo;carried&rdquo; over, since the last step is taken by God.
</div>

Why is the last step taken by God? Because it&rsquo;s the place where you
relinquish the belief that you can take a step by yourself at all. It&rsquo;s
the place where the sense of you says, &ldquo;Uncle,&rdquo; and gives up the ghost.
It&rsquo;s the place where you return to normal by not asserting any so-called
authority that you privately have. You see? It&rsquo;s the place where you
abandon any act of self-defense, self-preservation.

God takes the last step because you&rsquo;ve arrived at a point where you
allow for the fact that God&rsquo;s the only One Who&rsquo;s been taking any steps,
where God is the only Author of Creation, is the only Movement of Being,
including the Movement Of Being That You Are.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your right Mind &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the shared Inspiration of all the Sonship, induces a kind of
perception in which many elements are like those in the Kingdom of
Heaven itself.

First, its universality is perfectly clear, and no-one who receives it
could ever believe for one instant that sharing it involves anything BUT
gain.

Second, it is incapable of attack, and is therefore truly open.
</div>

If it&rsquo;s incapable of attack, it&rsquo;s defenseless. If it&rsquo;s defenseless,
there&rsquo;s no block to communion with it. There&rsquo;s nothing standing between
it and anything else.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This means that, although it does not engender knowledge, it does not
OBSTRUCT it in any way. There is a point at which sufficient
quantitative changes produce real qualitative differences.
</div>

Where? In your experience. Real qualitative differences. Like
fearlessness where fear used to prevail. Like the equivalent of
confidence where you had in the past always felt inadequate. Qualitative
differences in your inner experience of being present.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The next point requires real understanding because it is the point at
which the shift occurs:

Finally&hellip;
</div>

And this is the next point.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; it points the way BEYOND the healing which it brings, and leads
the mind beyond its own integration into the paths of creation.
</div>

When singleness of mind has been accomplished because you have come to a
point of complete abandonment of any right you thought you had to having
thoughts of your own which you initiated and made-up, then healing has
been accomplished. And it&rsquo;s no longer necessary to consciously choose
for Singularity, for Singleness of Mind.

And when that point comes and you have yielded, you find that what you
yielded into is the Movement of Creation, your Conscious Union with God
in which What Everything Is and What Everything Means is utterly clear
to you, together with the fact that you become unequivocally conscious
of the fact that your Real Function is to be in constant
Acknowledgement, constant Conscious Awareness of the Divine Meaning Of
Everything As The Movement Of Being Moves, so that you find yourself
recognizing God In Everything, and in that recognition glorifying God In
Everything. And because you are making that Gift Of Recognition, you are
infilled by God with the Conscious Experience and Joy of the Experience
Of Your True Identity.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Healing is not creating; it is reparation. The Holy Spirit promotes
healing by looking BEYOND it, to what the Children of God were before
healing was needed, and will be when they have BEEN healed. This
alteration of the time sequence should be quite familiar because it is
very similar to the shift in time perception which the miracle
introduces. The Holy Spirit is the MOTIVATION for miracle-mindedness; .
.
</div>

I&rsquo;ve mentioned before that your Divinity is constantly pressuring
against the walls you have built against your Conscious Experience of
It. It&rsquo;s constantly nudging, constantly insinuating a larger picture
into your awareness. And you call it, when you don&rsquo;t block it,
inspiration, inventiveness, creativity.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit is the MOTIVATION for miracle-mindedness; the will to
HEAL the separation by letting it go.
</div>

Abandoning it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This will is IN you because God placed it in your mind, and although you
can keep it asleep, you cannot obliterate it.
</div>

So you see we&rsquo;re still talking about rehabilitation: the uncovering of
capacities that already exist which seem to have been lost through lack
of use.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God Himself keeps this will alive by transmitting it from His Mind to
yours as long as there is time.
</div>

Which doesn&rsquo;t mean you&rsquo;re gonna run out of time for this to be done. But
as long as you are insisting on looking at Eternity through a lens
called time, this will be kept alive in you until you&rsquo;re willing to
re-embrace it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God Himself keeps this will alive by transmitting it from His Mind to
yours as long as there is time. It is partly His and partly yours. The
miracle itself is just this fusion or union of will between Father and
Son.
</div>

You see? The miracle itself is just this. Nothing more, and not the
giant thing you thought. It&rsquo;s just this: the fusion or union of will
between Father and Son.

Now, again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your real Mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is the spirit of joy. He is the Call to return with which God
blessed the minds of His separated Sons. This is the vocation of the
mind. The mind had no calling until the separation because, before that,
it had only BEING, and would not have understood the call to right
thinking.
</div>

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit was God&rsquo;s Answer to the separation, the means by which
the Atonement could repair until the whole mind returned to creating.
</div>

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Atonement and the separation began at the same time.
</div>

That they both began at the same time is a statement of the Divine
Integrity of your Being that was never lost.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When man made the ego, God placed in him the call to joy. This call is
so strong that the ego always dissolves at its sound. That is why you
can choose to listen to two voices within you. One you made yourself,
and that one is not of God. But the other is given you BY God, Who asks
you only to listen to it.
</div>

Well now, if God is asking you to listen to what is at the bottom line
your Real Mind, it&rsquo;s an invitation to utterly simple Sanity, isn&rsquo;t it?
Nothing complicated. It&rsquo;s like, &ldquo;Pay attention to yourselves, guys.&rdquo;
That&rsquo;s all. That&rsquo;s all waking up is about. Stop paying attention to your
imaginations. Pay attention to your Self.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit is in you in a very literal sense.
</div>

Why? Because It Is You! It couldn&rsquo;t be more in you than to Be You
Yourself.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
His is the Voice that calls you back to where you were before, and will
be again.
</div>

And I will add: where you are right now, but you&rsquo;re unconscious of it
because you&rsquo;re having so damn much fun thinking for yourselves, and
suffering from your thinking. And taking the challenge of overcoming the
suffering that you&rsquo;re experiencing from your thinking, instead of
saying, &ldquo;There must be another way to look at this, even if it requires
me to completely abandon everything I have built confidences in. I&rsquo;m
willing to look again because I don&rsquo;t really have the intent to be
insane. That&rsquo;s not really what I want to be doing. I didn&rsquo;t know that
that&rsquo;s what I was doing.&rdquo;

And I&rsquo;ll tell you as long as you didn&rsquo;t know that&rsquo;s
what you were doing, you had no recourse. But now it&rsquo;s becoming
clearer that there is another way to look at this, and there is another
choice to be made. And it&rsquo;s the choice for Healing or Wholeness.
It&rsquo;s the choice for Integration.  It&rsquo;s the choice for Unity.

But in order for Unity to be experienced, you&rsquo;re going to have to be
willing to be present with everything without insisting upon determining
for yourself what it all is. That&rsquo;s all. And what that means is that
you&rsquo;re called upon to be present with All That Is with curiosity and the
willingness to discover what you never knew about It before. So that in
the breaking down of the act of isolation, you might find yourself
beginning to realize that you did know what It was before. You see? And
remember Who You Are, and remember What It All Is so that the Experience
of It All will be Joy. You see?

Are you enjoying A Course In Miracles?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yeah. Yeah. [^2]
</div>

I know that everyone thinks from time to time, &ldquo;What in the heck does
this have to do with my life. This is such irrelevant bullshit, because
it has nothing to do with what&rsquo;s going on, and seems to give me no
leverage in the world I&rsquo;m living in.&rdquo;

Well, A Course In Miracles came forth from the Holy Spirit. It expresses
a different set of rules. A set of rules different from the rules that
you have all developed in the process of forming your
mutually-agreed-upon definitions, and in that sense it doesn&rsquo;t compute.

But you know what? As long as the only words you had to think with were
words that were defined by a false sense of who you were, you didn&rsquo;t
have any other option. And so I ask you to please forbear the difficulty
you&rsquo;re experiencing and hang in here because what the Course is doing is
giving you a new way to use the words you&rsquo;ve been using that don&rsquo;t lock
you into the mutually-agreed-upon definitions, but inspire in you a
capacity to become curious and to explore the unknown. Because there&rsquo;s a
payoff for you, but mostly because it&rsquo;s wrong for you to feel trapped in
the status quo when you&rsquo;re the Sons and Daughters of God. And you need
to feel the right to reach for something you&rsquo;re not conscious of at the
moment. You need to be inspired to explore and to let new things happen
so that you break the habit of rigidity.

So, you&rsquo;re aware that since we began reading, I have been making things
relevant to quote &ldquo;the human condition.&rdquo; Maybe not when you want it, and
maybe not about what you want it to be about, but a groundwork is being
laid for you to have new words to use in new contexts, so that your
involuntary entrapment to your old meanings for those words lose their
hold on you. These words are not here to put you in a new context of
words to be trapped by, but to inspire you to be willing to look with
great abandonment of self-protection and control, so that the walls of
your prison that you built become weaker and weaker and weaker until
they crumble, and the view becomes available to you of How Things Really
Are.

So be patient. You don&rsquo;t know what A Course In Miracles needs to do for
you, or how it should bring about the changes that need to be made. So
try not to quibble too much when you can&rsquo;t find the relevance,
remembering that what your ego calls relevance is that which conforms to
its rules.

Okay.

I love you very much, and I look forward to being with you next Sunday.

Okay.

[^1]: T5.1 Healing as Joining
[^2]: Students commenting or asking a question.

