---
title: Sep 21, 2003
ref: "T5.3 The Voice for God"
alink: "/acim/text/05/chap0503/"
---

Good afternoon. And again, welcome to everyone who is joining us on the
internet.

I will continue reading from the transcript as it was completed by Bill
Thetford. And so those of you who are reading either the first or second
editions, you will have to bear with the fact that there are
differences. And you might feel like you&rsquo;ve lost your place, but I
suggest that when you&rsquo;ve lost your place keep your finger there
and at some point it will pick up again.

A Course In Miracles &hellip; a course. Well, all of you know what a
course is. You&rsquo;ve taken courses in college. You&rsquo;ve taken
courses at weekend workshops. And if you&rsquo;re not careful,
you&rsquo;re likely to approach A Course In Miracles in the same way
you&rsquo;ve been taught to approach other courses, and that is as a
means of gathering new information which will help you to more
skillfully deal with life, without ever calling into question the
student who&rsquo;s taking the Course, without ever calling into
question the mind that is studying the Course. And if you don&rsquo;t
make that distinction, if you don&rsquo;t know that there is that
distinction, then you will not catch the real meaning of the Course and
you will end up being an ego practicing the principles of the Course so
as to be better in control in your life, and so as to be more safe
because this wonderful Course In Miracles has presented you with a new
defense.

Sometimes the misunderstanding of what the Course is about, meaning that
which calls the mind that is studying the Course into question, causes
one&rsquo;s behavior as quote &ldquo;a student of the Course&rdquo;
unquote to become most unkind, thoughtless. Throwing out statements from
the Course that don&rsquo;t really address anything at all except the
security and defense system of the one throwing out the words. And the
end result is hurt rather than healing. Someone behaves badly. The one
towards whom the bad behavior has been expressed says, &ldquo;Ouch! I
don&rsquo;t like the way you&rsquo;re behaving. It hurts.&rdquo; And the
one behaving badly says, &ldquo;Well, it&rsquo;s all in your
perception.&rdquo; Wow, what an unkindness. Not only that, if the person
to whom that statement has [been] made is halfway intellectual, he or
she is likely say, &ldquo;Hmmm. Maybe you&rsquo;re right.&rdquo; And
then they go off on a tangent of trying to improve their perception so
that bad or hurtful behavior doesn&rsquo;t hurt them. Awful.

An ego practicing the principles of the Course is no more useful than an
ego practicing any other system of thought, or an ego practicing any
other principles.

We are in Chapter 5 and as most of you are aware, you haven&rsquo;t
really been given any useful tools for being a more skillful ego in the
world.  And you can end up thinking that the Course really isn&rsquo;t
useful. But as we&rsquo;ve been going through it I have been pointing
out to you over and over and over again as the Course has been pointing
it out over and over again that until you Know Who You Are, until you
Know How Things Work, you can&rsquo;t understand what you&rsquo;re
reading about. And until you understand that the Course is from the
get-go calling your ego into question and not addressing your ego at
all, but addressing that Place of Excellence in You which is your
Divinity, until you recognize that, you are not going to be in any
position to be an agent for change in the world. You are not going to be
in any position to be a healer. You are not going to be in any position
to be what the Course calls a co-creator with God.

As the Course says the Place of Excellence in You is called the Altar.
The Place, you could say, where the Flame of Truth is lit and burning,
illuminating everything for you. But if your back is turned to the Altar
you seem to be able to be free to give new definitions that are not the
Truth to everything. And so before A Course In Miracles can even begin
to make sense to you, you have to recognize the necessity of not
reinforcing your ego any further.

You must recognize that the Course is not addressing your ego. It is not
there to improve your ego nor its skill at anything. The Course is here
to help turn your attention to a different resource that&rsquo;s right
in the middle of you. This Place of Excellence. This Place where you can
connect with the direct Experience of Truth. This Place where there is
forever flowing forth God&rsquo;s Perspective.

These two apparent resources that you have available to you are called
the Voice for Truth and the voice for fear. The Course is not directed
at those who are listening to the voice for fear, those who are defining
themselves according to the voice for fear. It is addressing the
Divinity of every single one of you which is present right in the middle
of each one of you at this moment, and is not a state to be achieved,
grown into, but one which you must care enough to become quiet enough to
sense in the withinness of you so that you might begin to consciously
use it as your prime resource.

The Voice for Truth is also the Holy Spirit. And again, I want to remind
you that last week we read, &ldquo;The Holy Spirit is nothing more than
your own right mind.&rdquo; The Holy Spirit is your Divinity held in
trust while you dally with the ego, while you play around at being an
independent thinker and definer of things, a pseudo-authoritative
presence that can never become actualized.

The last sentence of the last section reads, or the last two sentences:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit is in you in a very literal sense. His is the Voice that
calls you back to where you were before, and will be again.[^1]
</div>

Which simply means it calls you back into your Right Mind, into your
True Experience of your Self where you&rsquo;re not blocking It by
insisting upon expressing authority that God never gave you and that you
can never really have. It&rsquo;s you becoming Sane again. It&rsquo;s
you not having a mind divided where there seems to be the occasion for
choice.

This section is called:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*The Voice for God*
</div>

And I&rsquo;m reading &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is possible, even in this world, to hear ONLY that voice &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and no other.
</div>

Now it is not only possible, it is absolutely necessary even in this
world to hear only that Voice and no other.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It takes effort and great willingness to learn. It is the final lesson
that I learned, and God&rsquo;s Sons are as equal as learners as they
are as Souls.
</div>

Now, as the ego reads the Course, it&rsquo;s looking for ways to control
and manipulate the world better to its benefit. And because that is its
habit, it can&rsquo;t make sense out of what I just read, because what
I&rsquo;ve just read says that what you need to attend to first is
becoming single-minded; unconflicted within yourself. Well, how can that
solve your problem at work? How can that solve your problem with your
family?  How can that solve the financial disaster that you&rsquo;re in
the middle of?  Well, that isn&rsquo;t what needs to be attended to
first. What needs to be attended to first is for you to get in your
Right Mind so you can perceive What Is True about what is going on and
what is not true, and in that clarity make better choices and correct
what needs to be corrected.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Voice of the Holy Spirit IS the call to Atonement&hellip;
</div>

Now another way of saying that is the Voice of your True Mind is the
call to reintegration, the reintegration of you.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Voice of the Holy Spirit IS the call to Atonement, or the
restoration of the integrity of the mind.
</div>

The mind? Your mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When the Atonement is complete and the whole Sonship is healed, there
will be no call to return, but what God creates is eternal. The Holy
Spirit will remain with the Sons of God, to bless THEIR creations, and
keep them in the light of joy.
</div>

Well, of course. If the Holy Spirit is your Divinity, then when you have
stopped denying It and you have stopped making a choice for something
imaginary, It&rsquo;s going to remain with you, isn&rsquo;t it? Your
Self is going to remain with you except that now you will Know Who You
Are. And you will know that you have no authority of the sort you
thought you had as an ego. And you will know that it is your Joy not to
express independent, authoritative presence, but to glorify God by
reflecting Him in every act and thought and meaning that you embody.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You ARE the Kingdom of Heaven, but you have let the belief in darkness
enter your minds, and so you need a new light. The Holy Spirit &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your Real Self &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is the radiance that you must let banish the idea of darkness.
His is the glory before which dissociation falls away, and the Kingdom
of Heaven breaks through into its own.
</div>

Sanity breaks through into the middle of who you thought you were,
redefining you to yourself, re-illuminating Who You&rsquo;ve Always Been
to yourself.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Before the separation you did not need guidance. You KNEW as you will
know again, but as you do NOT know now. God does not guide because he
can share only perfect knowledge. Guidance is evaluative because it
implies that there is a RIGHT way and also a WRONG way, one to be chosen
and the other to be avoided. By choosing one, you give up the other.
</div>

As an ego studying any system of thought, including the Course, you can
think that you are learning how to make better choices between what
I&rsquo;m going to call bad options without ever arriving at a point of
realizing that there&rsquo;s a whole other level from which choice can
be made. The choice isn&rsquo;t between good and bad methods of control.
The choice is between believing that you can have control and try to
exercise it, or yielding all sense of control up and deferring to the
Father. Deferring to what comes forth from that Place of Excellence in
the middle of You that has been ever-presently waiting for you to turn
around and look at It again.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Guidance is evaluative because it implies that there is a RIGHT way and
also a WRONG way, one to be chosen and the other to be avoided. By
choosing one, you give up the other.

This IS a conflict state. It MEANS that knowledge has been lost &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what I&rsquo;ve referred to as Knowing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; because knowledge is sure. God is not in you in a literal
sense; YOU are part of HIM. When you chose to leave Him, He gave you a
Voice to speak FOR Him because He could no longer share His knowledge
with you without hindrance. Direct communication was broken because you
had made another voice through another will.
</div>

And in effect it means you simply stopped paying attention and started
ignoring God. And you did it because it seemed to you to be an
interesting thing to think independently, to think originally.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit calls you both to remember and to forget.
</div>

To remember and to forget. To remember Who You Are and to forget who you
think you are. To remember that your Function is to let All That God Is
Being find expression in you by your giving it way, by your sharing it,
by your letting your every act and thought and deed glorify something
other than you. And to forget this you that you made-up. And to forget
to try to protect it. And to forget to use your life to manipulate
others to agree with you to whatever degree it takes for you to not be
threatened by them.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have chosen to be in a state of opposition, in which opposites are
possible. As a result, there ARE choices which you must make.
</div>

That&rsquo;s the work, if you will. That&rsquo;s what you&rsquo;re going
to perceive as work anyway because you&rsquo;re going to have to
remember not to proceed willy-nilly and thoughtlessly down the paths of
old mental habits, and rather, stop and ask of that Place of Excellence
in You, &ldquo;What is appropriate here? What is really going on here?
Aside from my best judgments, what is truly needed here? Not that which
will protect me, but that which will glorify God. That which will embody
God right here.  Because I&rsquo;m told that if I give that precedence
in my mind and I find a way to let that be embodied in me, I will find
my invulnerability and the fact that I don&rsquo;t need to be in a
constant state of self-protection.&rdquo;

But you&rsquo;re going to have to make that choice. You&rsquo;re going
to have to make it over and over and over again because that&rsquo;s the
way you break an old habit. That&rsquo;s the way change happens.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
In the holy state, the will is free in the sense that its CREATIVE power
is unlimited, but choice itself is meaningless.
</div>

Choice itself is meaningless. What outside of the Infinite Movement of
Creation which it is your Function to experience and acknowledge and
recognize Its Source in, could constitute a choice? Can you see that
when you made a choice, when you attempted to imagine that you could
make a choice, what you had to do, because there&rsquo;s nothing outside
the Infinite Movement of Creation, was to block and limit your Conscious
Experience of the Infinite Movement of Creation?

That&rsquo;s the only thing you could do. That&rsquo;s the only thing
that any act of personal or private creativity you could engage
in&mdash;blocking the full Experience of Creation. You might say
that&rsquo;s like using drugs and slowly killing off the cells in your
brain, and finding that the choice to be limited in your ability to be
aware causes a temporary experience of exhilaration caused by the dying
of the cells in your brain. You see what I&rsquo;m saying? Except that
in your choice to ignore parts of the Infinite Movement of Creation,
nothing died. Your Right-Minded, Real-Minded Capacities blocked off by
you from your awareness of It, remains intact and forever available to
you, simply awaiting the time when you will tire of the unnatural effort
it takes to be in a constant state of Self, with a capital
&ldquo;S&rdquo;, Self-denial.


So, here you are at a point of having to make a choice between the
capital &ldquo;S&rdquo; Self You Are and the made-up small
&ldquo;s&rdquo; self that you can never really be. And you&rsquo;re
going to have to make the choice on purpose, and you&rsquo;re going to
have to make it over and over and over because that&rsquo;s how you
escape an unnatural bondage to ignorance, to being asleep. Not fully
awake. Constantly in a dopey, drowsy state that doesn&rsquo;t absorb the
Fullness of Everything in front of you. Continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Freedom to choose is the same POWER as freedom to create, but its
APPLICATION is different.
</div>

The difference is the power to choose as you have been using it, not as
it&rsquo;s being spoken of here, the power to choose is the power to
create definitions and choose for your definition which has as its
function self-protection which is selfish in nature, where[as] the Power
To Create is your Capacity to make a Gift, to extend, to glorify God by
extending What God Is to your Brothers, your Sisters, your world, your
Universe, and everything in it. The Power To Create is your innate power
to extend blessing to everything by recognizing God In Everything. You
see? It&rsquo;s unselfish. You might say it&rsquo;s
&ldquo;otherish&rdquo; except in extending Truth, in extending Love, in
extending the Essence Of What God Is to your Brother, you provide
yourself with the experience that your Brother is yourself, that your
Brother is not separate from you, that your Brother is not other than
you. Because the Function each of You has is the same Function&mdash;to
glorify God.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Choosing MEANS divided will. The Holy Spirit is one way of choosing.
This way is in you because there is also ANOTHER way.
</div>

You get that?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit is one way of choosing. This way is in you because there
is also ANOTHER way.
</div>

What that means is that you seem to have created another way. You seem
to have created for yourself a capacity to think for yourself, to choose
for yourself, to have an intent of your own that originates with you and
nothing else. And you believe you have succeeded, and you govern
yourselves accordingly. Having created that imaginary capacity to
choose, which you could never totally succeed at having created, it made
You As That Divine One Whose Function It Is To Glorify God another
choice. But when you finally abandon thinking that you have a capacity
to choose independent of God, then glorifying God, being the Fullness of
the Radiance of What God Is Expressing Himself As right where you are,
will be the unchallenged Nature of Being and won&rsquo;t constitute a
choice at all.

Nevertheless, while you seem to have made the choice for doing things
your way, and I am continuing here.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God did not leave His Children comfortless, even though they chose to
leave Him. The voice they put in their minds was NOT the voice of His
Will, for which the Holy Spirit speaks.
</div>

You see? The Divine One That You Are never speaks for Itself. It speaks
for God. And that&rsquo;s why it&rsquo;s absolutely necessary to
understand that this is not a Course to give the one you think you are a
better means of control, a better way for you to speak for yourself, a
higher, loftier motive for speaking for yourself, so that you might one
day perhaps change the world with the loftiness of a position you have
taken as an independent one. You see? Without ever having remembered Who
You Really Are.

The Holy Spirit speaks for God, not for you. Your Real Self speaks for
God, not for itself. You see the difference? Until you catch the scent,
the flavor of the meaning of what I&rsquo;ve just said, you can&rsquo;t
possibly be in a position of being an agent for change in the world, or
a healing Presence in the world.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The call to return is stronger than the call to depart, but it speaks in
a different way.
</div>

It not only speaks in a different way, it speaks with a different
intent, and it speaks for a different outcome. It doesn&rsquo;t speak
for an outcome of self-preservation. It speaks for an outcome of the
Extension of All That God Is through you.

And you know, I&rsquo;ll promise you something. The excitement you think
you experience being an independent ego making decisions and definitions
on its own and trying to succeed in overcoming the hostile world it sees
itself living in, the excitement and thrill of that doesn&rsquo;t begin
to match the Joy and the Bliss and the Innocence and the utter Safety
that you experience when you&rsquo;re being utterly congruent with your
capital &ldquo;S&rdquo; Self and are introducing nothing foreign to it.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Voice of the Holy Spirit &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; which is nothing more than your right Mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Voice of the Holy Spirit does not command because it is incapable of
arrogance. It does not demand because it does not seek control. It does
not overcome because it does not attack. It merely REMINDS.
</div>

And that&rsquo;s what I&rsquo;m constantly doing. It&rsquo;s constantly
reminding you of the Truth which you deeply know within your Being
because you couldn&rsquo;t get rid of It even if you buried It where you
thought It was out of sight. And I remind you of the Truth, and your
Divinity when you turn to It will remind you of the Truth. Not so that
the you, you think you are can embrace the Truth and live it better, but
so that in the experience of the reminder of what you know from that
Place of Excellence in You, you have the opportunity to say, &ldquo;Wow,
maybe I&rsquo;m going stop making a choice for my best capacity to
reason and think and come to conclusions and give definitions and
manipulate the world. Maybe, maybe I&rsquo;m going to abandon that in
favor of this experience I&rsquo;m having within me which is an
experience of utter Peace and utter Integrity and utter Safety in which
I feel universally grounded and Whole. Maybe I will give that preference
and explore the experience more fully.&rdquo; All of this because you
have been reminded of something.

The Voice of the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is compelling only because of what it reminds you OF.
</div>

Not because it reminded you with force but because it stayed out of the
way and illuminated some part of your Divinity to you so that you might,
because it&rsquo;s part of you and you can tell that it&rsquo;s part of
you, find the inclination to investigate it further.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It brings to your mind the OTHER way, remaining quiet even in the midst
of the turmoil you have made for yourselves. The Voice for God is always
quiet because it speaks of peace. Yet peace is stronger than war because
it heals. War is division, not increase. No-one gains from strife.

&ldquo;What profiteth it a man if he gain the whole world and lose his
own Soul?&rdquo; That means that if he listens to the wrong voice, he
has LOST SIGHT of his Soul. He CANNOT lose it, but he CAN not know it.
</div>

And I&rsquo;m adding this: He cannot know it by consciously choosing to
ignore it.

You can all not know it by consciously choosing to ignore it, but
ignoring something doesn&rsquo;t make it go away. And so when you
consciously choose to ignore What You Are in favor of an imaginary and
exciting false picture of who you are, all you have done is, you might
say, closed the door so that the Truth About You is out of sight, out of
mind. But It&rsquo;s sitting there. It&rsquo;s sitting there at this
moment accessible to you at this moment, available to you at this
moment.

And you know what? You don&rsquo;t have to study any course in order to
get the skill to re-access your Right Mind. All you have to do is let
there be a little chink of doubt about the mind that you think you have.
All you have to do is be willing to withdraw the trust you have invested
in the way you&rsquo;re seeing things and say, &ldquo;Father I would
like to see the Truth here. I would like to have an experience, a point
of view that&rsquo;s bigger and truer than any point of view I have
arrived at.&rdquo; That&rsquo;s the way you do it.

You withdraw investment of trust in the way you have decided everything
is and invite a new perspective from God. I say &ldquo;from God&rdquo;
because you want a new perspective that is utterly Truthful and the word
&ldquo;God,&rdquo; to you, does involve the meaning of Ultimateness. So
desire to Know Of That Which Is Ultimate What The Truth Is. And let
there be a stronger intent to have the new experience than to
reestablish the old one that you have created for yourself.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
That means that if he listens to the wrong voice, he has LOST SIGHT of
his Soul. He CANNOT lose it, but he CAN not know it. It is therefore
LOST TO HIM until he chooses right. The Holy Spirit is your Guide in
choosing.
</div>

Isn&rsquo;t that amazing?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit is your Guide in choosing.
</div>

That means that when you chose to ignore the Truth and make-up truth for
yourself, God didn&rsquo;t give you some other guide, something
different from you to be your guide. The Holy Spirit is your own Right
Mind. Therefore as you lean into the Holy Spirit for the truer
Experience of Being, you&rsquo;re leaning into, how shall I say it,
you&rsquo;re leaning into something you can trust because it&rsquo;s
your Self. You&rsquo;re leaning into that which would be the most
dependable thing that could be given to you to rely upon&mdash;your
Divinity. Your Guide isn&rsquo;t a stranger to you, in other words.
What Integrity that embodies that what you must lean into is the Voice
for God that is your very own Being. You get it? You get the Integrity
of it? You get the stability of it, the dependability of it, the
reliableness of it, and the fact that the solution to the human
condition is so utterly thoughtful, so utterly Loving, and so full of
Integrity?

In other words, you&rsquo;re leaning into your Divine Integrity in order
to have It uncovered to you so that the process is one of constant,
fuller confirmation of That Which Is Valuable About You. You can feel
the Unity of it, the Oneness of the process of coming Home, and why it
ultimately is, I&rsquo;m going to say, maximally powerful.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit is your Guide in choosing. He is the part of your mind
which ALWAYS speaks for the right choice because He speaks for God.
</div>

That is your measuring stick. If what you&rsquo;re hearing isn&rsquo;t
speaking for God, it&rsquo;s not the Holy Spirit. If what you&rsquo;re
listening to is speaking for you so that you might be exercising better
control with loftier motives in the world, you may know that you are
listening to that which is going to bind you to longer dreams and more
sleep.

The Holy Spirit &hellip; Reading again.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is the part of your mind which ALWAYS speaks for the right
choice because He speaks for God. He is your remaining communication
with God, which you can interrupt but cannot destroy.

The Holy Spirit is the way in which God&rsquo;s Will can be done on
earth as it is in Heaven. Both Heaven and earth are in YOU because the
call of both is in your will, and therefore in your mind. The Voice for
God comes from your own altars to Him.
</div>

Now listen to this.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
These altars are not things; they are DEVOTIONS. Yet you have other
devotions now. Your divided devotion has given you the two voices, and
you must choose at which altar you will to serve.
</div>

Now, again you see we&rsquo;re not talking about how to fix your
financial picture or your horrible relationship. We&rsquo;re not talking
about what she&rsquo;s doing, or what he&rsquo;s doing, or what
they&rsquo;re not doing. We&rsquo;re talking about what is essential
before you can even address the healing of anything. And what is
essential before you can truly address the healing of anything is for
you to choose for the Voice that will confirm healing, rather than
conflict and disease.

So don&rsquo;t try to rush ahead. Don&rsquo;t try to skip over this.

Reading &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet you have other devotions now. Your divided devotion has given you
the two voices, and you must choose at which altar you will to serve.
The call you answer now IS an evaluation because it is a DECISION.
</div>

Well, don&rsquo;t fuss around and mince around about whether or not you
should be being decisive because after all the only thing that can be
decisive is the ego. Bullshit! Make a decision. Make a choice between
the voices.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The decision itself is very simple. It is made on the basis of which
call is worth more to you.

My mind will always be like yours because we were created as equals. It
was only my DECISION &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; my choice &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; that gave me all power in Heaven and earth. My only gift to you
is to help you make the same decision FOR YOURSELF.
</div>

I cannot make it for you. No one else can make it for you. You made the
choice for moving into the realm of imagination and then trying to
believe that what you were imagining was truly real, and you must unmake
that choice by making the only other choice that&rsquo;s available to
you which is to abandon your imagined right to have ideas and thoughts
of your own independent of God. And turn around from that and say,
&ldquo;Father, Thy Will be done. Father, I wish to glorify You because I
have decided that I want the effect of my presence to be an Expression
Of What Is Truly, Divinely, Eternally Real. I want the effect of my
presence to embody and illuminate what is Ultimate, not partial.&rdquo;
But you&rsquo;ve got to want it. No way you can do this on lip service.
You&rsquo;ve got to want it.  You&rsquo;ve got to decide for it.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The will for this decision is the will to SHARE it because the decision
itself IS the decision to share.
</div>

You see? &ldquo;Oh! I want to glorify God!&rdquo; Hmmm. Well, to what?
To whom?  Glorify how? Are you just going to go out in the black corner
of the universe and glorify God, or go to a desert island and glorify
God there on the little, you know, one mile square perimeter that you
have of land to stand on? No. Glorifying God is involvement with your
Brothers and Sisters. It&rsquo;s involvement with every aspect of
Creation. It&rsquo;s extension, not out into the void, but extension to
a Brother or a Sister, to something, to an object of your affection.
It&rsquo;s involvement, as we&rsquo;ve spoken before.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The will for this decision is the will to SHARE it because the decision
itself IS the decision to share. It is MADE BY GIVING, and is therefore
the ONE act of mind that resembles true creation. You understand the
role of &ldquo;models&rdquo; in the learning process, and the importance
of the models you value and choose to follow in determining what you
will to learn. I am your model for decision. By deciding for God I
showed you that this decision CAN be made, and that YOU can make it.

I promised you that the mind that made the decision for me is also in
YOU&hellip;
</div>

Key words there.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I promised you that the mind that made the decision for me is also in
YOU&hellip;
</div>

Ahh. The Mind that will make the decision for you is the Holy Spirit.
That Place of Excellence in You which when remembering that It Is What
Is Real, chooses from what I&rsquo;m going to call that Level of
Clarity, rather than the imaginary sense of self that is nothing but
unclarity.  It makes the decision. The ego you think you are does not
make this decision to wake up. Let&rsquo;s be very clear on that. The
decision to wake up is impulsed by You from that Place of Excellence in
You, and it&rsquo;s not a calculated decision, calculated to have a
particular effect. It&rsquo;s a decision to be unconflicted within
yourself any more. That&rsquo;s what it is.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I promised you that the mind that made the decision for me is also in
YOU, and that you can let it change you just as it changed me.
</div>

This states in a different way what I told you last week. The Holy
Spirit, your own Real Self, your own Real Mind, operates according to
different Laws than your ego sense of self does. It operates according
to God&rsquo;s Laws, where your ego responds according to the laws set
up by the mutually-agreed-upon definitions that all of you have made-up
together. They serve two different purposes. One is a service of
self-protection, and the other is a Service of Extension.

Therefore, as you begin to reach out to the Holy Spirit, even though you
now know that it&rsquo;s your own Real Mind, it is at the beginning
going to be exactly like reaching out to something different than you,
something that will require you to yield up your self-trust in favor of.
Again, it&rsquo;s just another way of saying that waking up is not a
matter of ego self-improvement; it&rsquo;s a matter of abandoning the
ego and making a choice for That Of You Which Is Real and Sane.
It&rsquo;s really a matter of being willing to forget insanity.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I promised you that the mind that made the decision for me is also in
YOU, and that you can let it change you just as it changed me. This mind
is unequivocal because it hears only ONE voice and answers in only ONE
way. You are the light of the world with me. Rest does not come from
sleeping but from waking.
</div>

Oh, you cannot imagine the Joy of the Peace and the Effortlessness of
Being Infinitely as compared to the effort and strain it has taken you
to experience things finitely. Trust me on this.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit is the call to awake and be glad. The world is very
tired because it IS the idea of weariness. Our task is the joyous one of
waking it to the Call for God. Everyone will answer the Call of the Holy
Spirit, or the Sonship cannot be as one. What better vocation could
there be for any part of the Kingdom than to restore it to the perfect
integration that can make it whole?
</div>

So, if you ever wondered what you were here for, now you know.
You&rsquo;re here to wake up from the repetitive process of falling
asleep and having dreams called incarnations. You&rsquo;re here to wake
up from falling prey to the distraction of looking at the Kingdom of
Heaven through the lens of mutually-agreed-upon definitions.
That&rsquo;s what you&rsquo;re here for. So that you don&rsquo;t have
these endlessly repetitious experiences of Reality through the
distorting lens of false perception.

When you wake up, you&rsquo;re not going to go anywhere. You&rsquo;re
just going to see here with fresh eyes in which everything you see is
some Aspect of God embodying His Purity, His Beauty, His Loveliness, and
His Indivisibleness. Universal Indivisibility while at the same time
being Infinitely Expressed.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Hear only this through the Holy Spirit within you, and teach your
brothers to listen as I am teaching you. When you are tempted by the
wrong voice, call on me to remind you how to heal by sharing my decision
AND MAKING IT STRONGER. As we share this goal we increase its power to
attract the whole Sonship, and to bring it back into the Oneness in
which it was created.
</div>

And I&rsquo;m going to say, &ldquo;and in which it has forever continued
to be even though no one is noticing it because they are distracted by
the thrill of independence.&rdquo;

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Remember that &ldquo;yoke&rdquo; means &ldquo;join together&rdquo; and
&ldquo;burden&rdquo; means message.  Let us reconsider the Biblical
statement &ldquo;my yoke is easy and my burden light&rdquo; in this way;
let us join together, for my message is Light.
</div>

You see, you keep looking for something in the Course to miraculously
change your life in the world. But that won&rsquo;t happen until
something else happens first, and it&rsquo;s called joining. It&rsquo;s
called abandoning your independent stance. And you know what? It&rsquo;s
not possible to join with egos. It&rsquo;s not possible. The only thing
it&rsquo;s possible to join with is something that&rsquo;s Real. And
that which is Real Is Divine.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I came into your minds because you had grown vaguely aware of the fact
that there IS another way, or another Voice.
</div>

It doesn&rsquo;t matter whether I was saying this to Helen and Bill or
not. If you are experiencing Me in your mind, it is because you have
grown vaguely aware of the fact that there is another way or another
Voice.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Having given this invitation to the Holy Spirit, I could come to provide
the model for HOW TO THINK.
</div>

This is very important.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Psychology has become the study of BEHAVIOR, but no-one denies the basic
law that behavior is a response to MOTIVATION, and motivation is will. I
have enjoined you to behave as I behaved, but we must respond to the
same mind to do this.
</div>

You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This mind is the Holy Spirit, Whose will is for God always.
</div>

Not for you! Not for you. The Holy Spirit&rsquo;s Will is for God.
God&rsquo;s Will is for You. You already are God&rsquo;s Will In
Expression. You are the Presence Of God Embodied. And there&rsquo;s
nothing more nor less than the Infiniteness Of God constituting the
Presence That You Are.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I have enjoined you to behave as I behaved, but we must respond to the
same mind to do this. This mind is the Holy Spirit, Whose will is for
God always. He teaches you how to keep me as the model for your thought,
and to behave like me as a result.

The power of our joint motivation is beyond belief but NOT beyond
accomplishment. What we can accomplish together HAS no limits because
the Call for God IS the call to the unlimited. Child of God&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; Brother and Sister. I&rsquo;m inserting that.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; my message is for YOU, to hear and give away as you answer the
Holy Spirit within you.
</div>

It&rsquo;s a whole shift of Being for you. A shift from getting to
giving. A shift from self-protection to Loving your Brother enough to be
benign in his experience, and therefore be a demonstration of the fact
that fear is not called for, and thereby be an inspiration to him to
dare to have the confidence to set aside his conviction that
self-protection is essential.

Everyone is indeed becoming clearer. I may not be providing opportunity
very frequently for dialog, for interaction, but our Communion, Mine
with each of You, is very definite and is going on whether you are able
to interact on Sunday afternoons. And your increasing Clarity is
nurtured, you might say, fertilized and protected by Me and by your
Guides.

And you want to know something? Your own Real Self, the Holy Spirit, is
experiencing Joy as all of this becomes clearer to you. And you&rsquo;re
going to begin to experience it as Joy felt for no good reason. And I
want you to know that when you have that experience of feeling Joy for
no apparent reason, that this is a True Experience Of Your Real Mind.
And in your recognizing that when it happens, it will constitute a
further act of Integration and Unification.

Now, I do not mean to imply by anything I&rsquo;ve said today that there
is not going to be healing in your world. I am not saying that you
should not expect a reversal of financial disaster, or that you should
not feel it is important to be healed of a disease. All I&rsquo;m saying
today is that before you tackle healing a disease, before you tackle the
correction of a financial disaster, that you make sure that you&rsquo;ve
done everything you can not to rely upon your ego to do it. And that the
means for avoiding investing further energy into your ego is to ask of
the Holy Spirit or to ask of the Father, &ldquo;What is the Truth
here?&rdquo; The Call, the necessity is for abandoning the isolation and
joining with the Father, or the Holy Spirit that speaks for the Father,
so that the healing or the reversal of misfortune cannot ever be
attributed to the expression of will on your part. Every single time you
think that your expression of will has accomplished something, it has
strengthened your faith in the utilization of will power, which has
caused your back to be turned more solidly toward the Altar.

The Course is not about improving the ego or its skills. It&rsquo;s
really about the Divine You coming out of the closet. And you know what?
There&rsquo;s no way for you to be &ldquo;out-ed.&rdquo; No one else can
&ldquo;out&rdquo; you unfortunately, or fortunately. So, you can feel
comforted if you want to that nobody can demonstrate to anybody else
your Divinity, or your Capacity to Experience perfect Health, perfect
Harmony, all the Abundance you might ever want. No one will ever expose
your Capacity to be Meaningful. Don&rsquo;t worry. It won&rsquo;t happen
until you make the decision to make commitment to the Voice for Truth
that is the Holy Spirit which is your own Real Mind.

I love you all. And I look forward to being with you next week.

[^1]: T5.3 The Voice for God

