---
title: Sep 28, 2003
ref: "T5.4 The Guide to Salvation"
alink: "/acim/text/05/chap0504/"
---

Good afternoon. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
internet.

Before we begin reading, I want to remind you of something we read a
couple of weeks ago, the statement being, &ldquo;The Holy Spirit is
nothing more than your Real Mind.&rdquo;

You will find me emphasizing this somewhat frequently because in the
first and second editions of the Course that statement was changed to
read, &ldquo;The Holy Spirit is in your mind.&rdquo;

What I said to Helen was, &ldquo;The Holy Spirit is nothing more than
your Real Mind.&rdquo; I am emphasizing this repetitively because if you
only have the first or second edition of the Course available to you,
you have no occasion to hear what I actually said which is significantly
different in its meaning. And so you need to be reminded.

The Holy Spirit is nothing more than your Real Mind. Why say
&ldquo;nothing more&rdquo;? That in a way sounds belittling. But what it
actually is, it is expansive in terms of what your Real Mind is. Your
Real Mind is the Holy Spirit.

Now I&rsquo;m also going to repeat again that the Holy Spirit&mdash;your
Real Mind&mdash;works on the basis of entirely different Laws than your
egos do.  Your egos operate according to the mutually-agreed-upon
definitions that all of you have created together. The Holy Spirit
operates according to the Laws of God. Mind you, although we&rsquo;re
talking about your ego and we&rsquo;re talking about the Holy Spirit,
we&rsquo;re talking about two different ways of discussing you. You see
that? We&rsquo;re talking about two different ways of discussing you.

If you&rsquo;re into computers, you will understand that you can have
two different operating systems. And a good example of that is the
operating system that the Macintosh® uses and the Windows® operating
system. When you use the Windows operating system, you cannot access and
work in programs written for the Mac®. And if you have a Mac, you cannot
access and utilize programs that are written for Windows. A better
example could be the difference between Windows and Linux® because both
of those operating systems can function on a PC [Personal Computer].

The Holy Spirit is one operating system, and your egos are another
operating system. It&rsquo;s important to understand this because
there&rsquo;s no transfer between the two. And that is why when I speak
about your accessing that Place of Excellence in You, I&rsquo;m not
talking about a place of excellence, of goodwill, of loving kindness, of
thoughtfulness, or of anything that would operate within the realm of
your ego perception of yourself. That is not what I&rsquo;m talking
about. It isn&rsquo;t the very best of your ego.

The Place of Excellence in You is where this other operating system is
functioning, where the Holy Spirit is, where your Real Mind is
functioning right now, even though you&rsquo;re not paying any attention
to it as a general rule.

And as I said last week the Course is not addressing your ego to improve
it. It is addressing the Truth about the Place of Excellence in You, the
Holy Spirit. That which is nothing more than your Real Mind. And in
addressing it, it reminds you of It so that you become less invested in
your ego sense of things, and will arrive at a point of saying,
&ldquo;Mmmm. I think I may want to change operating systems for a bit
and explore what it&rsquo;s like to be out from my Real Mind.&rdquo;

Because they are exclusive of each other, you must reach out to
something that at the moment seems not to be you. You can&rsquo;t just
slip into your Divinity because your operating system has been one of
aggressive and specific and focused use of the Kingdom of Heaven for the
purpose of securing your separate safety, security and peace, as well as
a well-defined sense of who you are on your own.

So, initially, it will seem as though the Holy Spirit is something
different from you. And you will specifically have to reach out for It
as though It is different from you. But if you understand as you do this
that the Holy Spirit is nothing more than your Real Mind, you will be
willing to reach out for It as though It&rsquo;s different from you
because you want to experience the difference, you want to experience
the difference in the operating system. And knowing that It is nothing
more than your Real Mind that you are reaching out for will give you a
sense of confidence that this is a reasonable and intelligent and safe
thing to do.

I&rsquo;ve shared this before and it bears repeating again. When Paul
sits down at a Gathering, before he begins he shifts gears. He changes
operating systems. He sits there and says, &ldquo;I allow
only&rdquo;&mdash;that&rsquo;s making one&mdash;&rdquo;I allow only for
that which expresses the Christ Consciousness. And I allow only for that
which is in harmony with the capital &lsquo;P&rsquo; Purpose of capital
&lsquo;B&rsquo; Being&rdquo;&mdash;God. In other words, &ldquo;Thy Will,
not mine, be done.&rdquo; There&rsquo;s the transfer of power.
There&rsquo;s the shift of operating systems. &ldquo;Thy Will, not mine,
be done. Let the reign of Divine Truth, Life and Love be established in
me.&rdquo; And when he says this, these are not just words he is saying.
Let the reign of Divine Truth, Life and Love be established in him.
&ldquo;And rule out of me all self-will.&rdquo; There&rsquo;s the
abandonment of the other operating system. And then there&rsquo;s a
prayer, &ldquo;And may Thy Word enrich the affections of all mankind and
govern them.&rdquo;

Now in order to practice, shall I say in order to practice the Holy
Spirit, not a good choice of words but it gives you the idea, in order
to practice the Holy Spirit, you must make a point of shifting operating
systems or intending to shift them many times a day. That is what I
encourage you to do. Remind yourself that there&rsquo;s another
operating system from which you can be in your daily life. Remind
yourself and then invite It. And in the invitation, acknowledge that
you&rsquo;re willing to abandon all self-will, which means being in
charge.

This section is entitled:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*The Guide to Salvation* [^1]
</div>

Well, the Guide to salvation is the Holy Spirit, that which comes forth
from a Place of Excellence in You.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The way to learn to know your brother &hellip;
</div>

Notice it didn&rsquo;t say, &ldquo;The way to learn how to wake
up.&rdquo; The Course keeps you well-focused on where it&rsquo;s at.
Waking up has something to do with you learning to know your Brother.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The way to learn to know your brother is by perceiving the Holy Spirit
in him. We have already said that the Holy Spirit is the bridge or
thought-transfer of perception to knowledge&hellip;
</div>

In other words, it is the shift from misperception of your Brother, or
misperception of the Kingdom of Heaven into the Experience of Knowing
your Brother, Knowing the Kingdom of Heaven, the direct Experience of
What It Truly Is.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
We have already said that the Holy Spirit is the bridge or
thought-transfer of perception to knowledge, so we can use the terms as
if they were related because, in His mind&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; they ARE. The relationship MUST be in His mind because, unless
it were, the separation between the two ways of thinking would not be
open to healing.
</div>

In other words, the Holy Spirit must be able to recognize both operating
systems. Because if It didn&rsquo;t, It could not help you, It could not
help you to shift from one to the other. It would be impossible and you
would be forever asleep.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is part of the Holy Trinity because His mind is partly yours
and also partly God&rsquo;s. This needs clarification, not in statement
since we have said it before, but in EXPERIENCE.
</div>

Well, how do you think it&rsquo;s going to translate into experience if
it doesn&rsquo;t involve your relationship with your Brother?
Involvement. It won&rsquo;t. It can&rsquo;t.

Now you notice that I have not invited your questions for a while, and
we&rsquo;ve just been discussing the Course. And the reason is because
at this point there&rsquo;s a very clear exposition of the way things
work and what it is that&rsquo;s working. And this understanding must be
gained, I&rsquo;m going to say, intellectually if you&rsquo;re going to
arrive at a point where you&rsquo;re going to yield to the Holy Spirit.
You must understand that the Holy Spirit is not something apart and
different from you but is your Real Mind.

Now, continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit is the IDEA of healing. Being thought, the idea GAINS AS
IT IS SHARED.
</div>

Again, how is it going to be shared if it isn&rsquo;t extended to a
Brother or a Sister? How is it going to be shared if there isn&rsquo;t
involvement?

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Being the Call FOR God, it is also the idea OF God.
</div>

You see? It is the Idea Of Something that isn&rsquo;t embraced in the
ego operating system.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Since YOU are part of God, it is also the idea of YOURSELF, as well as
of all the parts of God.
</div>

So you see, what the Holy Spirit is as you consider It, as you open up
to It, is far more expansive and all-inclusive than you might have
imagined, which means that your Real Mind is far more inclusive and
expansive than you might imagine.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The idea of the Holy Spirit shares the property of other ideas because
it follows the laws of the Universe of which it is a part.
</div>

Mind you, all of this is talking about You! Isn&rsquo;t it far more
interesting to be reading about you than some disembodied Holy Spirit
that God brought into existence the moment you chose to be separate and
is there to be your distant but really connected Guide? Your Guide is
your Right Mind that reflects God and functions according to the Laws of
God, and is therefore inseparable from the Whole Universe and
inseparable consciously. I&rsquo;m going to say &ldquo;mentally&rdquo;
but that&rsquo;s not the best word. It is inseparable consciously with
every other consciousness.

And so your Right Mind is the Intimate, Conscious Experience of every
thing and every one with no walls. And in that Experience you find that
every thing and every one is You Infinitely speaking, but not
&ldquo;you&rdquo; like you ever considered yourself before. You
Infinitely, You The Very Presence Of The Mind Of God Being What God Is
Being.

Don&rsquo;t fuss. Don&rsquo;t wish you could ask questions right now.
Just hear the meanings that I&rsquo;m expressing and let them register
and let them settle.  Let them be in you.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The idea of the Holy Spirit shares the property of other ideas because
it follows the laws of the Universe of which it is a part. Therefore, it
is strengthened by being given away. It increases in YOU as you give it
to your brothers.
</div>

This &ldquo;you&rdquo; that it is speaking of that it increases in is
this tiny, isolated sense of yourself. And as long as you&rsquo;re
insisting upon being tiny and isolated and alone, with distance, walls,
impenetrability between you and your Brothers and Sisters, then the only
way in which this new operating system is going to take precedence is
when you consciously choose to extend the Father&rsquo;s Love to your
Brothers and Sisters. And as that is done, it increases the Idea of the
Holy Spirit.  It increases the Presence of the Holy Spirit both in you
and in your Brothers and Sisters.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Since thoughts do not have to be conscious to exist, your brother does
not have to be aware of the Holy Spirit, either in himself or in you,
for this miracle to occur.
</div>

Again, a little bit of leaven leavens the whole lump. Your increasing
awareness of the existence of the Holy Spirit as your Real Mind and the
lessening of your resistance to that fact, leavens the whole of the
Brotherhood of man. It changes everyone. Those who are awake experience
you as being more conscious of them. And those who are not awake are to
some degree less asleep than before. And no one has to be aware of it in
order for it to occur as long as one of you is making the shift of
operating systems, even if it&rsquo;s for a fraction of a second.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your brother may have dissociated the Call for God, just as YOU have.
</div>

In other words, put it out of sight, out of mind, and is ignoring it so
that it can have the frightful delight of believing that he or she is
independent, alone, vulnerable, but capable of overcoming the
vulnerability, and in the process of overcoming the vulnerability
demonstrating its actual existence. Crazy.

Continuing. Reading again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your brother may have dissociated the Call for God, just as YOU have.
The dissociation is healed in BOTH of you as YOU become aware of the
Call for God in him, and thus acknowledge its BEING.
</div>

You know, if you realize even slightly that there&rsquo;s the Holy
Spirit in you, the Call for God in you, you immediately recognize that
it&rsquo;s true of every one of your Brothers and Sisters. And so now a
new set of messengers have been sent out into your world to your
Brothers and Sisters that must come back to you confirming the Holy
Spirit in them.  And now the leavening has increased.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There are two ways of seeing your brother which are diametrically
opposed to each other. They must both be in YOUR mind because YOU are
the perceiver.
</div>

Mind you, it doesn&rsquo;t say you are the Knower, the capital
&ldquo;K&rdquo; Knowing of Truth. You are the perceiver.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
They must also be in HIS because you are perceiving HIM.
</div>

Now, let&rsquo;s be clear here. It doesn&rsquo;t mean that it must
actually be in him. But because you are in a state of perception,
everything that is true about you will have to be true about him in your
mind.

What is the answer to this? The solution? I&rsquo;m reading.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
See him through the Holy Spirit in HIS mind, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and here the word &ldquo;His&rdquo; refers to Holy Spirit.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
RAJ READING: See him &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your Brother &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; through the Holy Spirit in HIS &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; mind and you will recognize Him &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; in YOURS. What you acknowledge in your brother you ARE
acknowledging in yourself, and what you share you strengthen.
</div>

Now again understand that this is a Law. What you share you strengthen
and it&rsquo;s true in both operating systems. And so what you share
from the ego strengthens the ego. And what you share from the Holy
Spirit, the other operating system in you, is strengthened.

Now just for one further point of clarity. There&rsquo;s really only one
operating system, and it&rsquo;s the Holy Spirit. The operating system
called the ego is an imagined operating system made-up out of whole
cloth, out of absolutely nothing, pure fantasy. But, being the Christ
That You Are, being the Holy Son Or Daughter Of God That You Are that
you can&rsquo;t stop being, you are using all of your Divine Power, if I
may put it that way, to energize your fantasy. And you are bringing all
of your Omnipotent Capacity to bear upon the reinforcement of your
fantasy and the commitment to your fantasy so that you become highly
focused. So highly focused on your fantasy that you block everything
else out and you seem to make your fantasy real to you.

But understand this. All the time that you are seeming to succeed in
making a fantasy real, you are doing it with That Which will forever
keep it false. You are using your Capacity As The Christ, which means
that that which negates the false sense of you is ever-present and
keeping the sense of yourself that you&rsquo;re trying to establish from
becoming real in any way. What you are using to create a fantasy is
constantly negating the fantasy.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Voice of the Holy Spirit IS weak in you. That is why you MUST share
it.
</div>

You see that? By sharing It, you strengthen It. By sharing It, you
embody It. By sharing It you energize It in your life, in your
awareness, and It does not remain successfully hidden out of sight,
therefore out of mind, and bind you to total ignorance, you might say.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It must be INCREASED in strength before YOU can hear it. It is
impossible to hear it in yourself while it is so weak in your OWN mind.
</div>

Or shall I say, so blocked in your own mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It is not weak in itself, but it IS limited by your unwillingness to
hear it. Will itself is an idea, and is therefore strengthened by being
shared.
</div>

You remember I mentioned that at the beginning of each Gathering Paul
says, &ldquo;Thy Will, not mine, be done. And let the reign of Divine
Truth, Life, and Love be established in me and rule out of me all
self-will.&rdquo;

There is will in both operating systems. In the ego operating system you
think it&rsquo;s yours. You think it&rsquo;s a possession and something
that gives you authority. In the Holy Spirit the Will is the
Father&rsquo;s Will which All That The Father Is Be-ing yields to. In
other words, the Infinite Creation of God is forever yielding to God by
not claiming an existence of its own in its own right. You see?

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Will itself is an idea, and is therefore strengthened by being shared.
If you make the mistake of looking for the Holy Spirit in yourself
alone, your meditations will frighten you because, by ADOPTING the
ego&rsquo;s viewpoint, you are undertaking an ego-alien journey with the
ego as GUIDE. This is BOUND to produce fear.
</div>

And this is exactly why as you begin the shift of operating systems, you
have to abandon the valuing of your ego and of your present sense of
everything. And you must reach outside of the boundaries of it
completely. You must reach out to the Holy Spirit as though it is
something different from you. Because if you don&rsquo;t do that, you
will have nothing to yield to, and yielding is the essential means of
breaking the dream of isolation and waking up.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Delay is of the ego because time is ITS concept. Delay is obviously a
time idea. Both time and delay are meaningless in eternity.
</div>

In other words, in the other operating system.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
We have said before that the Holy Spirit is God&rsquo;s ANSWER to the
ego. Everything of which the Holy Spirit reminds you is in direct
opposition to the ego&rsquo;s notions because true and false
perceptions are THEMSELVES opposed.
</div>

Now listen to this.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit has the task of UNDOING what the ego has made.
</div>

Uh oh! Uh oh! So your egos have been put on notice. But you must
understand this so that you don&rsquo;t approach the Course thinking
that what it&rsquo;s going to uncover to you is going to be helpful to
your ego. If that&rsquo;s clear to you, then you will be able to more
clearly see that the Course is going to help you shift operating systems
whereby you become free of illusions. How? By coming into the conscious
clear Experience of your Real Mind. And that is not a frightening
proposition. You can swallow that. You can embrace that. And you can
dare to explore that.

Reading &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; undoes it in the same realm of discourse in which the ego
itself operates, or the mind would be unable to understand the change.
</div>

Divine Love always has met and always will meet every human need. In
other words, Divine Love meets you right where you are, right where the
human need is, right in the same realm of discourse in which the ego
itself operates. So rather than trying to escape the world and the
universe, let the Holy Spirit in right where the need is, right where
the world seems to be.

The world and universe, all of creation, is not something to rise above.
It is something to invite the Holy Spirit into. Relationships
aren&rsquo;t something to be gotten out of but something to invite the
Holy Spirit and Its perspective into. Why? So that you might be able to
share it with your Brother and strengthen It by the sharing.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
We have repeatedly emphasized that one level of the mind is not
understandable to another.
</div>

In other words, one operating system is not understandable to another
operating system.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
So it is with the ego and the Soul; with time and eternity. Eternity is
an idea of God, so the Soul understands it perfectly. Time is a belief
of the ego, so the lower mind, which IS the ego&rsquo;s domain, accepts
it without question.
</div>

We might also call the lower mind the imagined mind, the fantasy mind.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The only aspect of time which is really eternal is NOW. That is what we
really mean when we say that &ldquo;now is the only time.&rdquo; The
literal nature of this statement does not mean anything to the ego,
which interprets it, at best, to mean &ldquo;don&rsquo;t worry about the
future.&rdquo; That is not what it really means at all.
</div>

Now is the present. The Presence, the present is where Presence presents
Itself, where God Be&rsquo;s.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit is the Mediator between the interpretations of the
ego&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; one operating system &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and the knowledge &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; or capital &ldquo;K&rdquo; Knowing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; of the Soul.
</div>

The other Operating System.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
His ability to deal with symbols enables Him to work AGAINST the
ego&rsquo;s beliefs in its own language.
</div>

Mind you, your &hellip; I&rsquo;m going to go back and reread this. Your
Real Mind is the mediator between the interpretations of your fantasized
mind and the Knowledge of the Soul. Your Right Mind&rsquo;s ability to
deal with symbols enables It to work against your ego&rsquo;s beliefs in
its own language.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[Actual next sentence: His equal ability to look BEYOND symbols into
eternity also enables Him to understand the laws of God, for which He
speaks.]
{: .omit}
</div>

Your Real Mind&rsquo;s equal ability to look beyond symbols into
eternity also enables It to understand the Laws of God, for which It
speaks.

It&rsquo;s really important for you to read this understanding that when
it refers to the Holy Spirit, it is referring to your Real Mind. This is
integrating. And this affirms the Integrity of your Being divinely
speaking that you never lost and which is fully functional in you right
now. In the realization of this, it strengthens your ability to abandon
your obsession with and commitment to the mutually-agreed-upon
definitions, the infrastructure, the operating system of the ego.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; can thus perform the function of REINTERPRETING what the ego
makes, NOT by destruction, but by UNDERSTANDING. Understanding is light,
and light leads to knowledge.
</div>

Or Knowing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your Real Mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is IN light because He &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; It &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is in you who ARE light&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; You see? You are Light.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; but you yourselves &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; from the ego&rsquo;s vantage point &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; do not know this. It is therefore the task of the Holy Spirit
to reinterpret YOU on behalf of God.
</div>

And what it doesn&rsquo;t say here is, &ldquo;to you.&rdquo;
That&rsquo;s the way Sanity returns. When your Real Mind, your capital
&ldquo;S&rdquo; Sanity reinterprets your delusions to you and leaves you
with understanding and thus brings about re-Integration.

Do you see how cohesive and integrated the means of Coming Home is? The
essence of What You Divinely Are becomes the building blocks of your
Awakening. That&rsquo;s Integrity and that&rsquo;s Love. And it requires
you to be willing to honor something in you beyond your current limited
definitions of yourselves. And to the degree that you acknowledge and
value the Something Of Essential Integrity in you and you let It find
experiencing, or extension, It becomes strengthened in you and in your
Brother and Sister and in your world because there are no private
thoughts.

You&rsquo;re not tiny and you&rsquo;re not separated, and therefore the
Essential You exists, functions, acts in its Wholeness which is
Universal. When you are awake there is nothing you can do or be that
does not constitute a Universal Experience for All That Exists.
That&rsquo;s how expansive the benefit of your sharing is.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You cannot understand yourselves alone. This is because you have no
meaning APART from your rightful place in the Sonship, and the rightful
place of the Sonship in God.
</div>

Another way of saying this is what was said earlier, that you have no
meaning separated from your Father. Denying your Father, existing
separate from your Father causes you not to be a Son or a Daughter. It
causes you to lose the experience of your Identity, and without Identity
you are meaningless. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You cannot understand yourselves alone. This is because you have no
meaning APART from your rightful place in the Sonship, and the rightful
place of the Sonship in God. This is your life, your eternity, and
YOURSELF. It is of this that the Holy Spirit reminds you. It is this
that the Holy Spirit SEES. This vision invariably frightens the ego
because it is so calm. Peace is the ego&rsquo;s greatest enemy because,
according to ITS interpretation of reality, war is the guarantee of its
survival.
</div>

That&rsquo;s part of the underlying structure of the other operating
system.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego becomes strong in strife. If you believe there IS strife, you
will react viciously because the idea of danger has entered your mind.
The idea itself IS an appeal to the ego.
</div>

But listen to this.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your Real Mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is as vigilant as the ego to the call of danger, opposing it
with His strength just as the ego WELCOMES it with all its might.
</div>

So, if there&rsquo;s any question in anybody&rsquo;s mind about whether
there&rsquo;s a difference between right and wrong, or that it&rsquo;s
just a matter of one man&rsquo;s meat is another man&rsquo;s poison, let
us no longer be confused about this. There is right and wrong. There is
that which is opposed to something else between which a choice has to be
made.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit counters this welcome by welcoming peace. Peace and
eternity are as closely related as are time and war. Perception as well
as knowledge &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; or Knowing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; derives meaning from relationships.
</div>

That&rsquo;s the same in both operating systems.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Those which you accept are the foundations of your beliefs.
</div>

The infrastructure. The operating system.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The separation is merely another term for &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what? Not a distance between you and your Father, but &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; a split mind.
</div>

It&rsquo;s one part of you separated from another part of you by a
conscious act of denial of the part that&rsquo;s being left out in the
cold, the part that&rsquo;s being ignored. That&rsquo;s the separation.
It&rsquo;s not really a separation from God. It&rsquo;s a movement from
the clear Experience of Reality into a purely fantastic imagined
experience.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The separation is merely another term for a split mind. It was not an
act, but a THOUGHT. Therefore, the idea of separation can be given away,
just as the idea of unity can. Either way, the idea will be strengthened
IN THE MIND OF THE GIVER.
</div>

Again, either way it&rsquo;s a law. Either way the idea will be
strengthened.  Where? In the mind of the giver.

Do you see why this needs to be addressed before we talk about &hellip;
well, let&rsquo;s say how to do miracles, how to change your world, how
to heal, how to redeem, how to regenerate, how to bless? If you
don&rsquo;t realize that you&rsquo;ve been operating according to an
operating system which at some point you imaginatively created for
yourself, then you are lost. You&rsquo;re totally unconscious of
anything except the trap of the fantasy that you are consumed by.

When you learn that it is an operating system and not a fact, and that
there is another operating system and the other operating system is
valid, but the one you&rsquo;ve been using is invalid, you have made an
unsettling discovery. One that is appropriately called a disillusioning
discovery. Disillusioning because you&rsquo;re in a position of
recognizing that there is an illusion that can be abandoned because
there&rsquo;s a real operating system. So you&rsquo;re not lost, but
everything that you had valued isn&rsquo;t really valuable.

And so, if you don&rsquo;t understand this, and if you don&rsquo;t
realize that the Call for God is a call to another operating system, you
will just continue to take every new spiritual expression and try to use
it from the operating system currently in use and will remain stuck.
What we&rsquo;re uncovering here is the fact that there are two
operating systems going on in you. Not operating systems being enforced
from some outside source but entirely within the singular presence that
you are. One of them disintegrates you and one of them integrates you.
Knowing this means that you can now make a choice. But making the choice
is going to require that you yield what you have valued to that which is
apparently unknown to you because you have so successfully blocked It
off from yourself. But now you know the direction to move in. And you
know that the Holy Spirit is your own Real Mind, and that therefore any
exploration into It will constitute an increased Integrity of your
Essential Valuable Being.

So now you know what needs to be addressed. And in the addressing of
that successfully by persistence until the connection is made and then
the broadening of the connection, you will find through the
reinterpretation of everything that you&rsquo;ve been aware of by the
Holy Spirit, by your Real Mind, you will shift operating systems. You
may not do it wholly all at once. You may do it as Paul does it;
frequently but not all the time. But every moment you spend connected to
the Holy Spirit, your Real Mind, you find yourself extending, giving,
sharing what you find yourself Knowing in that Place. And the extension
of it always involves the acknowledgement that the Truth you&rsquo;re
experiencing is true about your Brother, and therefore about yourself,
and the leaven increases the leavening.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[Raj did not read: The ego is the symbol of separation, just as the Holy
Spirit is the symbol of peace. What you perceive in others you are
strengthening in YOURSELF.]
{: .omit}

You &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; from the old operating system &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; let your mind misperceive, but the Holy Spiri &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your Real Mind &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; lets your mind reinterpret its own misperceptions.
</div>

Now that&rsquo;s called education. And that&rsquo;s called learning. And
that&rsquo;s called change. And that&rsquo;s called redemption.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit is the perfect teacher.
</div>

Can you imagine a Teacher more perfect for you than your Self with a
capital &ldquo;S&rdquo;? If you stop to think about it, it&rsquo;s quite
incredible the way your reawakening is set up because it&rsquo;s so full
of Integrity. And it&rsquo;s so foolproof.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit is the perfect teacher. He uses only what your minds
ALREADY understand to teach you that you do NOT understand it. The Holy
Spirit can deal with an unwilling learner without going counter to his
will because part of his will IS still for God.
</div>

Part of your will is still for God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Despite the ego&rsquo;s attempts to conceal this part it is still much
stronger than the ego, even though the ego does not recognize it.
</div>

That in you which is the Will for God, no matter how much you&rsquo;ve
blocked it from your awareness, is still stronger than the
infrastructure of mutually-agreed-upon definitions that you have
created.

Continuing &hellip; 

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit recognizes it perfectly because it
is His own dwelling place, or the place in the mind where He is at home.

YOU are at home there, too, because it is a place of peace and peace is
of God. You who are part of God are not at home EXCEPT in His peace. If
peace is eternal, you are at home only in eternity. The ego made the
world as IT perceives it, but the Holy Spirit, the REINTERPRETER of what
the ego made, sees it only as a teaching device for bringing you home.
</div>

And so I and the Holy Spirit say, &ldquo;Look at the roses. Look at the
petals. Look at the glass on the glass-topped table and be willing to
see something new there, something that doesn&rsquo;t fit the
definitions that you&rsquo;ve given to it. Be willing to see the
Presence of God. Be willing to see an Idea there, rather than matter. Be
willing to see the Substance of Spirit there, instead of the substance
of matter. Look with innocent eyes.&rdquo;

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The Holy Spirit must perceive time and reinterpret it into the timeless.
The mind must be led into eternity THROUGH time because, having made
time, it is capable of perceiving its opposite.
</div>

Remember I said before that the only &ldquo;creative&rdquo;&mdash;and
that word &ldquo;creative&rdquo; should be in quotes&mdash;the only
&ldquo;creative&rdquo; capacity you have as an ego is to block the
Experience of Creation. There is no capacity to make a new creation. So
the only capacity you have as an ego to be &ldquo;creative&rdquo; is to
block off more and more and more of Creation from your Conscious
Awareness.

So &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The mind must be led into eternity THROUGH time because, having made
time, it is capable &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; it is capable &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; of perceiving its opposite.
</div>

If you are capable of seeming to create something for yourself through
an act of denial of Reality, then you know at the bottom line there is a
choice other than what you&rsquo;re experiencing because you used that
other choice as the point of denial in order to create the illusion.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
[faint, no microphone] It&rsquo;s too much. It&rsquo;s too much. I have
to speak up from my integrity. [^2]
</div>
No, this needs to be&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Well, okay. I&rsquo;ve just got through spending six
weeks reading a manual from my sewing machine that I don&rsquo;t
understand. And then I go take a class and I have a teacher reading that
manual to me, and I&rsquo;m sorry, I don&rsquo;t get that manual. Now I
don&rsquo;t learn this way. I can&rsquo;t learn this way. It&rsquo;s,
you know, it&rsquo;s bulldozing my mind and I have to speak up.

I learn by taking one jewel and assimilating it and embracing it fully.
When I have this wealth of one concept after another being presented, I
can&rsquo;t absorb it. And there are so many questions I have after each
paragraph, I have to speak up and say something. I have to say I
can&rsquo;t move this fast because I want to learn what&rsquo;s in here.

And so I have to say, you know, either I have to wait &hellip; I&rsquo;m
so &hellip; it raises my frustration level much like a child must who
first enters first and second grade, you know, and they&rsquo;re on to
the fourth grade material. I have to say something here because if I
don&rsquo;t I&rsquo;m overlooking what I intuitively love about this
book, but yet not fully understood.

Now Paul and I have discussed this behind the scenes already. This is
not new. I&rsquo;m not throwing something at him. But I&rsquo;ve got to
speak up here because we&rsquo;re all involved in this. And I&rsquo;ve
already run over must be ten different ideas that I&rsquo;m not
grasping. Now maybe the human mind may never grasp it but somewhere
I&rsquo;ve got to be in sync with it. So I&rsquo;m begging can we move a
little slower where I am not getting enough examples for in depth
understanding.

And I wonder if others in the group are feeling this way. I just had to
say it.

I&rsquo;m coming unglued. I&rsquo;m coming unglued absolutely.

I&rsquo;m not. I&rsquo;m right with you.

Fast or slow once in a while I get.

I&rsquo;m really following with this. For me, and it&rsquo;s only
because I had a really odd experience back in like 2000. It&rsquo;s
called like a kundalini experience and it was just like my mind was
really opened. And this was like I had a vision and it was just like
there was nothing but white light, you know, with God and it was just
pure peace and everything like that. And then for some reason I felt a
fall or a separation take place.  And it was just like all of a sudden
it was just like I&rsquo;ve fallen and it was one mass ball of light and
it was falling in a spiral circle and it seemed to create the stars and
everything. And then I seem to be on this planet and it seemed like my
consciousness had been split asunder and thrown everywhere.

And what I found was, is that from what you&rsquo;re saying is, is that
everything that I&rsquo;m seeing and everything like that is just the
idea that I had of separation. And that as I start to open myself up and
let go of my ego definitions of who I think I am and start loving and
opening up to everything, the Reality of the situation of being in the
real world with God and everything will be my full experience as I open
up and allow the Holy Spirit to make that conscious again. I fully
understand what he&rsquo;s saying.

I&rsquo;m feeling very connected with what Susan was expressing. And as
I&rsquo;m hearing you read on and explain this, my mind is working in
picture form and I&rsquo;m trying to get an analogy that would help me
to understand from this ego perception that I&rsquo;m experiencing. And
one of the things that came to my mind that was sort of helpful was, you
know, I&rsquo;m seeing this paper cup on the table and imagining that if
there&rsquo;s an infilling of Love that comes into this perception, ego
perception that I&rsquo;m seeing myself as a paper cup that can be
filled from meditating, let&rsquo;s say. And then if I say, &ldquo;okay,
now I&rsquo;ve got this infilling&rdquo; and I close the top of that
paper cup and say, &ldquo;now this is mine, I have this,&rdquo; then
I&rsquo;m closing off the capability of continuing to be filled so that
I&rsquo;m overflowing and then I actually have the capacity to love and
to give, but it&rsquo;s not my giving. It&rsquo;s the overflowing of the
Holy Spirit that is just filling this to overflowing. And I just
&hellip; my ego perception wants to take credit for extending Love, and
when I try to do that I block the flow of Love.
</div>

Indeed.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So it&rsquo;s kind of &hellip; I don&rsquo;t if that&rsquo;s helping.
But when you&rsquo;re saying that by giving we&rsquo;re reinforcing that
experience &hellip;
</div>

Strengthening it.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Strengthening it. To me I can&rsquo;t give something that I don&rsquo;t
have and so &hellip;
</div>

That is &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
&hellip; I don&rsquo;t have any love of my own from an ego standpoint
except a sort of a bargain kind of idea of love. And the Real Love Is Of
God.
</div>

Indeed, and one of the elements that allows you to know whether
it&rsquo;s coming from the ego or from the Holy Spirit or the Father is
that when it is not from your ego, you will have no way of making a
connection to what has happened where you can say, &ldquo;I was
responsible for that. I did that.&rdquo; You will know you were involved
but there will be no way to feel that you authored it. You will know
that you were inseparable from it and you will have the joy of the
experience, but afterwards you will have to say something to the effect
that, &ldquo;I was filled with inspiration and what came forth was
incredibly beautiful, wonderful or helpful, but,&rdquo; quote, &ldquo;It
didn&rsquo;t come from me,&rdquo; unquote, meaning I wasn&rsquo;t the
originator of it.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So we can remain innocent that way.
</div>

You could look at it that way, yes.

When it&rsquo;s from the ego you will definitely be able to take credit
for it and feel pride around it. Now it is an entirely new way of being
to be the Presence of the Movement of Love without being able to take
credit for it. To be something wonderful, to be the Presence of
Fulfillment, to be a true agent for change is a new kind of experience
because a personal sense of authorship is not connected with it in any
way. But it doesn&rsquo;t bother you because there was such a complete
experience of involvement with It that you were inseparable from It.
That kind of experience of being a truly meaningful Presence without
having authored the event, that is part of being from the new operating
system.

And you will experience a sense of loss of the previous capacity you had
to be able to take credit and to feel pride and to think that you knew
that it validated you as a worthwhile being. There will seem to be the
loss of that experience but it will be replaced by something entirely
different, that being as I said the experience of being inseparable from
the Movement Itself, of that Movement not being different from you in
any way. And the only way I can put this is having the Experience of
having been Meaningful because there is infinite feedback from all your
Brothers and Sisters who are awake confirming, I&rsquo;m going to say,
God In The Event. This is a new way of experiencing Identity.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I&rsquo;ve had glimpses of that in my past and I long for that to
return. And I really want to appreciate Susan&rsquo;s courage to come
forth and express the frustration that I feel too. But at the same time
I also sometimes wonder &hellip; you know we get so much intellectual
&hellip; I mean the words that are being given in this Text and your
explanation, sometimes it almost seems it&rsquo;s, like Susan said,
it&rsquo;s too much. And it sort of confounds the mind almost like one
of those &hellip; what do they call those &hellip; Buddhist quatrains or
something, I don&rsquo;t know what they called them, where it so
confuses the mind that finally the mind just says, &ldquo;I give
up.&rdquo; And in that giving up then maybe there&rsquo;s a chance for
us to feel the Love that&rsquo;s being extended.

And I really feel it here. When I come in the door and I smell
Susan&rsquo;s cooking, [getting emotional] that fills me every bit as
much as listening to you, Raj. I just &hellip; I&rsquo;m sorry,
I&rsquo;m getting emotional. I want to pass the mic to somebody.]
</div>

Indeed, Susan, what you were feeling was like a child in a small river
nine to twelve inches deep sitting on the rocky bottom and enjoying a
little bit of buoyancy so that with a little push on the rocks, she
would float a little bit and the current would move her. But then having
moved or been moved by the current to an area a little shallower where
the current was faster, finding that when she buoyed herself off the
pebbles she was moved faster than she anticipated, and felt a loss of
control. Indeed, what I&rsquo;m engaged in here doesn&rsquo;t have so
much to do with the words as it has to do with having exactly the right
ideas expressed in exactly the right timing so that it causes
aha&rsquo;s to occur.

Now I&rsquo;m going to honor at the same time your request. We have gone
many weeks without the ability to interact. And so I&rsquo;m going to
invite everyone this week to give some thought to what we have talked
about and what questions you have had. And we will devote next Sunday,
or at least as much time as it takes to answer or explore the questions
that concerns the doubts or whatever that you might have. This format
will not continue indefinitely. It has been appropriate and it will
continue to be appropriate for a short time.

I commend you for speaking up. And I encourage all of you whether
it&rsquo;s here or whether it&rsquo;s when you&rsquo;re dealing with
your own Guide, when you feel like you&rsquo;ve just had it, then stop
and have it out. Maintain that degree of integrity and realness with
your Guide or the Holy Spirit or the Father.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Or your wife.
</div>

Someone said, &ldquo;Or your wife.&rdquo; Your wife is as good an object
of your affection as the Holy Spirit is. Yes. Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I can always go along with whatever&rsquo;s going on. And
I&rsquo;ve not found it to be a problem to stay with you all the while.
And I don&rsquo;t get in the road. So what do you have, and I think I
already know what the answer is, is that I accept. And we can go next
week and ask all kinds of questions that we don&rsquo;t understand.
Except my position &hellip;
</div>

I want the questions to relate to what we have been reading about. It
will not shift into, let us say, a typical Gathering where questions
about all different subjects can be brought up. We&rsquo;re here
discussing and exploring the ideas expressed in the Course.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And so being that, there&rsquo;s a good possibility that I don&rsquo;t
have any questions. That my part is to be gracious and allow for the
questions even though I would just love for you to continue on and just
talk for hours and hours more and I wouldn&rsquo;t leave you ever. So
that&rsquo;s my part is to just sit and listen to questions.
</div>

Your Brothers and Sisters with questions are as worthy an object of your
affection as Mark&rsquo;s wife is.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I agree. I agree. I knew the answer. And I go along.

Has this been on the internet?
</div>

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
One more thing. The value I see in pausing while we&rsquo;re moving
along swiftly here is… I&rsquo;ll give an example. There&rsquo;s a
paragraph here that&rsquo;s hanging me up. Mainly it&rsquo;s the
language whether it&rsquo;s in this book or the other one. It&rsquo;s
still the language that&rsquo;s hanging me up. I don&rsquo;t know if I
should go into it.
</div>

I will ask you to save it for next week.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
May I say something though not about the Course?
</div>

Certainly.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I hope I don&rsquo;t forget. Whatever paragraph would be hanging me up,
if I happen to have an unrecognized part of me that&rsquo;s interpreting
but imagining that I&rsquo;m joined and I&rsquo;m not paying attention
to the level of frustration that I&rsquo;m experiencing because there is
an unrecognized part of me or of what I thought I was, interpreting it,
I can&rsquo;t move any further until there is a shift of &hellip;
it&rsquo;s like in meditation. Once you see that you&rsquo;re in a stuck
level or an altered state, the moment you see it, the moment you grasp
where that misperception was, the moment you see it, you can move beyond
it.

 But obviously there&rsquo;s some identification that I&rsquo;m having
 here that&rsquo;s preventing me from seeing truly what&rsquo;s in that
 paragraph. And so I can&rsquo;t move forward. And the group&rsquo;s
 going to have to wait or I&rsquo;m going to have to go over there and
 do my homework.

We&rsquo;ll wait.

You know, because &hellip;
</div>

Indeed.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
&hellip; I have to recognize that what it was in that strata that I was
seeing with that I don&rsquo;t need, in order then to get back into the
movement and it be smooth sailing again. And that requires me to pause.
If I don&rsquo;t pause, I will stay stuck where I am and everybody else
moves forward, which increases my frustration. And they&rsquo;ve all
gotten it, but here I am stuck.

So I think it&rsquo;s a learning procedure, a process. And if somebody
else were saying this, you know, I could feel quite impatient with it
and say, &ldquo;Come on. I know this stuff. I&rsquo;ve known it for
twenty years.&rdquo; Well, guess what? I know this stuff and I have
known it for twenty years. But something&rsquo;s hanging me up. And
I&rsquo;m sorry to miss the beauty of letting this sink in, because I
want it to sink in and lift me even further out of a personal sense of
self. Okay.
</div>

Yes. Thank you. I know that there are others who thank you for speaking
up.

We will end on this note of appreciation. And I look forward and I know
many others look forward to next Sunday. Thank you for being very real.

I love you all.

[^1]: T5.4 The Guide to Salvation
[^2]: Students commenting or asking a question.

