---
title: Oct 12, 2003
ref: Discussion
---

Good afternoon. And welcome to everyone who is joining us on the
internet.

I would like to start with some comments. The last time we gathered, we
ended with a discussion about, let us say, the rate of speed with which
I was moving and the fact that there wasn&rsquo;t enough time for everything
to settle in, to be dealt with. And so I indicated that today we would
take time for you to address portions of the book that we moved over
quickly that there is lack of clarity about for you and that you wish to
have clarity about.

I want to say something. We call this an ACIM Study Group and we have
been for over a year discussing and moving through the Course. But you
know what? I&rsquo;m not really here trying to illuminate the words in a book.
This isn&rsquo;t about quote &ldquo;a course of study&rdquo; unquote. At the bottom line,
the Course is all about you. It&rsquo;s not about the Course.

My Function here is not to illuminate the Course but to illuminate
you&mdash;Who You Divinely Are&mdash;to yourself, or shall I say, your Self, with a
capital &ldquo;S&rdquo;, to you. You are the focal point because you are the ones
having the dream, the nightmare. The book isn&rsquo;t having a dream. And the
purpose of the book is to cause you to experience your Self more
clearly. The purpose of the book is to give you language and concepts
that will undo the sense of yourself which you carry with you and
reinforce and embody and actify, if I may put it that way, and undo it.
The book is not the focal point. Your Real Self is and your, what you
would call as an ego, your potential is the focal point. Divine
potential, not ego potential.

So far, as we have read, I have been bringing the attention back to you,
using it to help you see how you utilize your mind, and the starting
point that you are using.

Last week, the last meeting I pointed out there are two different
operating systems. One of the them is Real in You, and one is the one
you have made-up. Everything that we have read up to this point has
helped to provide language and concepts that will allow you to grasp
this. But you know what? We&rsquo;re at a point of transition here, you might
say, out of the theoretical into the practical where it stops being
something you&rsquo;re studying about; ideas that you&rsquo;re able to put together,
classify, categorize, put into your memory banks, and then draw from,
like legal boiler plate, phrases, statements that can be pulled out of a
memory bank and put together in fresh new ways, intriguing ways,
surprising ways.

It&rsquo;s not about gathering anything from memory banks, and it&rsquo;s not about
putting anything into memory banks. It&rsquo;s not about finding something new
to incorporate into your mutually-agreed-upon definitions, refining them
and perfecting them and making them be more spiritual while still
functioning from an operating system which is purely imaginary and has
nothing to do with Reality.

Your boiler plate, your definitions, and the way you have put everything
together to give you a sense of what everything is about so you may feel
secure, is what you are about to be willing to abandon, if indeed you
want to wake up, if indeed you want to regain your Sanity. In abandoning
this, it feels like abandoning your security. But you know what? Your
security has always been derived from your ability to give quick
responses because you can access your memory quickly and efficiently so
that you have a rebuttal, you have an idea that overrides the idea that
has been expressed. That&rsquo;s not really security. It&rsquo;s just a good defense
system.

When you move into the other Operating System, you move into a place
where your immediate response to anything is, &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t know what the
answer is,&rdquo; and where you abandon the attempt to have the quick answer,
the quick rebuttal that supercedes whatever came before it. Switching to
the other Operating System is a matter of moving into the, I&rsquo;m going to
say, forever unknown and letting yourself be there in your Peace with
the inevitable curiosity that will accompany it. You may not know what
the answer is, but you know there&rsquo;s a question. You know there&rsquo;s a need.
And in the silence of not attempting to provide the quick rebuttal, the
quick answer, you find insight, revelation occurring. You find yourself
knowing in that moment what to do, what to say, how to phrase it, how to
intone it. And you know what? Your behavior will always be a blessing.
But you know something else? What you have found yourself expressing
that constituted a blessing doesn&rsquo;t become a bit of information to store
in your memory banks, because that is not the way the new Operating
System works. It doesn&rsquo;t have any memory banks.

The new Operating System where you have gone to the Place of Excellence
in You and you have said, &ldquo;Thy Will be done, not mine,&rdquo; means that you
forever stand at unknowing attention with curiosity, openness so that
your appropriateness in every given moment is fresh and original and
expresses the Living Will of God in the Now.

As you make the conscious and conscientious effort to shift to the other
Operating System, what I&rsquo;m going to call the new Operating System, the
Holy Spirit, as you make conscious and conscientious effort to do that
more and more consistently and find yourself being able to be utterly
appropriate in the moment, always with a blessing accompanying it, you
will begin to find security in never knowing anything beforehand. A new
experience of security will occur, and it will reinforce itself without
your having to try to have to reinforce it. It will reinforce itself,
not because you are consistently expressing a clear will, but because
you are consistently being willful-less.

None of you realizes the degree to which the tone of your voice and your
choice of words is governing your ignorance, is governing and securing
your ignorance, your dream.

So, you have been my focus all along&mdash;not the Course. The Course is being
used as a means of providing language that will allow you to somewhat
gracefully shift from the current operating system to the Real Operating
System in You. That&rsquo;s what it&rsquo;s all about.

Now, who has questions about what we&rsquo;ve been discussing in the Course
that you would like clarification on? And if you will give us the page
numbers.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
This would be on page 93.[^1]
</div> 

Of the sparkly book.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
That&rsquo;s correct.
</div> 

Okay, this is for those who are in the first or second edition, this
would be on the second page of chapter five.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay. Here it talks about giving; the whole idea of giving is losing and
how &hellip;
</div> 

Which paragraph are you looking at?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
It&rsquo;s the whole, it&rsquo;s &ldquo;Healing as Joining.&rdquo;
It&rsquo;s in that entire paragraph. For instance, in the last sentence
it says:
</div> 

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you can accept the concept that the world IS one of ideas, the whole
belief in the false association which the ego makes between giving and
LOSING is gone.
</div> 

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Do you see that, that last sentence there?
</div> 

Indeed.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay. The whole concept of this paragraph is about the whole idea of
scarcity, I think, versus abundance. In other words, it makes the &hellip;
it presents the concept that if you share a &hellip; if you give someone a
thing &hellip; okay, it looks like you lose the thing and the other person
gains it. But if you give a person an idea, it does not diminish your
holding the idea but actually increases, makes it bigger. The other
person has the idea and you have the idea, and the more people that
believe in the idea the stronger the idea becomes.
</div> 

Indeed.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Here is what the &hellip; and now I want to take this concept and put it
into my everyday life. So here&rsquo;s the question. Let&rsquo;s talk about &hellip;
and of course scarcity in the lives of myself and others is often about
money. The whole question of money. So my question that immediately came
up for me was if you believe in this particular concept, if you believe
in the idea of this particular concept, then would it be possible for
you to experience a lack in your life as far as materiality is
concerned?
</div> 

If you believe in this particular concept meaning?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
The concept of giving is and sharing is increasing as opposed to giving
as losing. You follow me?
</div> 

Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay. So the thing that immediately came up for me was that if I&rsquo;m
totally 100% in belief of this idea, would I experience scarcity, lack,
need in my life? In other words, is what &hellip; for instance, if I do
experience scarcity, lack, and lack of whatever it is I feel I need to
continue, is it because I&rsquo;m not fully invested in this whole idea that
this paragraph puts across? Does that make sense what I&rsquo;m getting at?
</div> 

I am going to ask you to say it again more succinctly.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay. You want me to repeat the idea again? Okay. Let me see if I can
find the exact sentence that &hellip; okay.
</div> 

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you think about it, you will see that, while this kind of thinking is
totally alien to having THINGS, &hellip;
</div> 

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
That is, the idea of &ldquo;when you give you lose.&rdquo;
</div> 

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; even to the lower mind it is quite comprehensible in connection
with IDEAS. If you share a physical possession, you DO divide its
ownership. If you share an idea, however, you do NOT lessen it. ALL of
it is still yours, although all of it has been given away. Further, if
the person to whom you give it accepts it as HIS, he reinforces it in
YOUR mind, and thus INCREASES it.
</div> 

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So in the world of ideas, it&rsquo;s quite obvious. In the world of things,
it&rsquo;s hard to see. So my question is if I fully invest, if I&rsquo;m 100%
vested in this idea of &ldquo;giving is increasing,&rdquo; then could scarcity, lack
of anything be experienced in my particular experience?
</div> 

You would indeed find your needs being met. I&rsquo;m going to ask you to
become even more specific. What kind of things are you talking about
giving?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Well, money is a perfect example. In my own life, I operate at a
deficit. And so, instead of saying, well, the folks out there in
yoga-land in this particular neighborhood aren&rsquo;t just getting it,
they don&rsquo;t see the value of what I&rsquo;m doing, I&rsquo;m a bad
teacher, you know, all of the ego bullshit that will come up that will
condemn me or my Brother for as why this is in a deficit situation. So
I&rsquo;m in the process of trying to re-look at the situation, change
my perspective. And this particular paragraph, you know, is that what I
have to do? Do I have to change my mind in order to change what is in my
experience?
</div> 

You do indeed.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
How would I do that?
</div> 

You have to arrive at a point where you have to decide whether there is
anything, anything that can justify your withholding your Gift. As long
as there is anything that can justify your withholding your Gift, your
Gift is not complete. There can be no joy in the sharing of It. And that
will be reflected back to you as insufficiency of some sort, providing
you the opportunity to solidify and unify your commitment to your
Function to be that which extends what is valuable, what meets the need,
whatever it is the Father&rsquo;s Will that you be the expression of.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
In my experience, what I&rsquo;m experiencing right now is I do all that
I can. It&rsquo;s taken priority in my life to extend the Gift to
&hellip; for people who say they can&rsquo;t pay, to say, &ldquo;You can
have it for free. You don&rsquo;t have to pay. It&rsquo;s my pleasure to
give it to you.&rdquo; I see it as more important than the fee for the
class is watching people progress in the practice. That seems to give me
the most joy because I recognize that at the level that I&rsquo;m at
right now, I&rsquo;m never going to be able to, or at least I
can&rsquo;t foresee getting enough from this financially to make me
wealthy, or in any way well off. So, there&rsquo;s that. Then the
&hellip; I don&rsquo;t see myself withholding anything from the people
who I teach, at this point. And I don&rsquo;t, I thought I was beyond
the idea of making it about money.

So I keep &hellip; what I&rsquo;m saying is there&rsquo;s still
confusion. What is it that I&rsquo;m specifically not doing or feeling
or seeing that continues to deny me to be able to move comfortably
monetarily in the situation, or feel that I&rsquo;m &hellip; In other
words, what am I doing that&rsquo;s not working?  If it&rsquo;s not
them, it&rsquo;s gotta be me. And that &hellip; I always look at me as
being the problem. So where is the problem?
</div> 

Sometimes the problem is with them. And sometimes you are there to be
the one to provide the illumination, the clarification of the fact that
sharing is a two-way street. Sharing is a mutual thing. And so you&rsquo;re
going to have to listen in the moment as to how to be with a particular
individual or a particular group as to what you are going to say, and
how you are going to illuminate what is still covered in their mind
about the mutuality of Gift. Because, mind you, they are coming still
from the place you are emerging from, perhaps even more solidly than
you, and so it doesn&rsquo;t make sense to them. And so education,
illumination needs to happen. And you&rsquo;re going to have to listen on the
spot as to what it is that will need to be said.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
There is also some guilt that I have in this situation because, like
Paul and Susan, they don&rsquo;t &hellip; there is no fee for &hellip; they give and
it&rsquo;s up to you, us to determine what that Gift is worth, or how much
we&rsquo;re moved to give, or so it&rsquo;s all on a volunteer basis.

But yet I in my particular practice say well, if you come to this class,
it&rsquo;s this amount of money. If you come, you know, you pay twelve
classes. There is a fee. It makes it easy for everyone. It&rsquo;s ten
dollars, or nine dollars, or whatever, twelve dollars.
</div> 

It makes it easy for everyone because it doesn&rsquo;t challenge the current
operating system, and it doesn&rsquo;t promote a shift to the other Operating
System.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Right. Exactly. So my guilt comes up with I&rsquo;m not doing that. So my
question is, is that my next step? Is to make it a donation basis in my
particular practice? I mean am I &hellip; is that my fear? My withholding
my &hellip;
</div> 

It is, and understand that a certain amount of education is going to
have to accompany the shift.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
You mean of me or of them?
</div> 

Of them, of those who you are teaching. Yes.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So is it time to do that? Or is it like I have to get more comfortable
with the concept?
</div> 

Well, let&rsquo;s put it this way. The ego is never going to get more
comfortable with the concept. [Michael and scattered audience laughing]
And there is no time like the present to break the habit, to break the
pattern, to make an excursion into the new Operating System, the new
Premise.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
The last thing that comes up for me around this whole idea of abundance
is the whole idea of conservation. Conservation from &hellip; on the
individual level as far as recycling is concerned. In other words,
saving your waste paper and taking it to the recycling center, driving
an automobile that doesn&rsquo;t burn a lot of gas, and limiting your trips to
only those that are necessary, and on and on and on and on. How does
that fit into the whole idea of abundance and not buy into the whole
idea of limited resources and scarcity and pollution and et cetera?
</div> 

[laughing] To be intelligent doesn&rsquo;t constitute a practice of limitation
or scarcity. To organize your waste so that it can be processed
efficiently and recycled, not out of lack, but out of honoring the
abundance that you have, the abundance that you have that you&rsquo;re
throwing away. This does not constitute scarcity.

To limit your trips to conserve on fuel does not make sense. To be able
to increase your ability to make trips without losing is intelligent.
And so the means to make as many trips as you wish and not pollute is
intelligent. Conservation, thrift is the means by which you block the
experience of abundance.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I&rsquo;m not getting it. It&rsquo;s like you just said two different things. In one
sense you said conservation makes sense, and is intelligent &hellip;
</div> 

In what sense?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Pardon me?
</div> 

Feed back to me in what sense.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
In the sense of recycling, for instance.
</div> 

I didn&rsquo;t say that had anything to do with thrift. I said it had to do
with the intelligent use of abundance that you have that you&rsquo;re throwing
away.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Okay. But then for instance, to buy a gas hog and &hellip;
</div> 

The aluminum, the glass, and so on, that is a resource; an already
existing asset, you might say. To handle it intelligently so that it
remains an asset doesn&rsquo;t constitute thrift. It constitutes simple
wisdom.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
What about, for instance, like consumerism where you just go out and buy
stuff. You buy, buy, buy. And you say, &ldquo;Well, why not? Everything is
abundant.&rdquo; And then it just gets thrown away, or &hellip;
</div> 

What is the motivation for the buying?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Well, obviously &hellip;
</div> 

If it&rsquo;s to fulfill a need or fulfill a purpose, a function, if you are
buying to be able to do something to be able to make the Gift, but if
you are buying to keep up with the Joneses, or if you are buying so as
to appear to be successful when you&rsquo;re not, or if you are buying to feel
important, now you&rsquo;re clearly in the ego, and this is not what we&rsquo;re
talking about.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
How about the question of like luxury? For instance, you know, buying a
big beautiful, comfortable car that just really, you know, gets five
miles to the gallon versus having a compact economical car because you
feel that it&rsquo;s easier on the environment?
</div> 

The question is what purpose is the vehicle going to serve?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Well, in one sense it serves the purpose of making me comfortable, and
making me feel like I&rsquo;m in the lap of luxury versus the whole idea of
feeling &hellip;
</div> 

Let&rsquo;s stop right there. Quote &ldquo;the lap of luxury&rdquo;
unquote. That is pure ego bullshit. It&rsquo;s a concept. Lap of luxury.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Well, I think &hellip;
</div> 

Now, to have a car so that you feel like you&rsquo;re in the &ldquo;lap
of luxury&rdquo; is way off base. To be comfortable, to be surrounded by
that which is beautiful, is a divine thing. And you know what?
There&rsquo;s a whole area of freedom and enjoyment that is being missed
out on because, for example, the Volkswagen could be designed so that it
is beautiful inside with cherry wood and leather and comfortable seats
so that everything about it is as enjoyable as you associate what is
enjoyable about a BMW or a Rolls Royce.

What is the purpose that it serves? You may need a car that is a larger
car, because part of the Gift you make involves driving other people, as
well as yourself, where the room is needed. Does what you have serve the
Gift you&rsquo;re giving? Or does it serve a personal satisfaction? Does what
you have embody and further fulfill the Gift that you have to give. You
see?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yes. I don&rsquo;t want to get too far off track. I just want to ask one more
question. Could you in this paragraph it talks about Soul. And I&rsquo;ve
looked through the material and cannot find a definition. It talks about
higher mind and it talks about Soul. The higher mind follows the Soul.
Could you give us a definition, a working definition of Soul?
</div> 

Soul means Individuality. Individuality means indivisibility.
Individuality means indivisible and therefore undivided. And I have also
given you a definition of Soul and that definition is, the capacity to
sense and feel what is divinely Real. It is what you would call the
Divine Mind&rsquo;s Capacity to Feel the capital &ldquo;M&rdquo; Meaning
of Everything.

Therefore the word &ldquo;Individuality&rdquo; means you. And you are
the Function of glorifying God by recognizing God in each and every
thing. You&rsquo;re very Being is the Function of recognizing God in
everything, acknowledging God in everything, feeling What God Is Being
in everything. And you witnessing to God are inseparable from God.

The most clearly I can put it in words is that you recognizing God in
everything is God Himself recognizing Himself in everything. Okay.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Thank you.
</div> 

You are welcome.

What page?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Thank you.
</div> 

What page are you &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
In the same area. Refining this more into a for me which is kind of a
personal dilemma, the idea of surrendering. What&rsquo;s been coming up for me
is &hellip;
</div> 

When I finish the sentence&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I&rsquo;m sorry.
</div> 

Surrendering &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Surrendering the ego into that place which seems like a void, risking
letting go of everything with the promise that a greater or a complete
fulfillment awaits us. And what &hellip;
</div> 

Fortunately you don&rsquo;t have to do that in one giant leap. Because as with
the Prodigal Son, the moment you start Home the Father comes out to meet
you. The moment you start Home the Holy Spirit that is your Real Mind is
present to meet you right where you are to facilitate the rest of your
journey Home.

Continue &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
That&rsquo;s nice to hear, but in my own personal experience, when I get close
to that place of surrendering into that silence, in meditation, for
example, my ego is scratching and clawing and insinuating stuff like,
&ldquo;Okay if you want to become one who is awake, then you&rsquo;re no longer
going to get to have any physical and emotional intimacy with anyone.
And it&rsquo;s already pretty sparse. And so are you sure that&rsquo;s where you
want to go?&rdquo; And &hellip;
</div> 

It tempts you.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
These kinds of things, and my Higher Self is saying, &ldquo;Yes, but I
remember having the experience of that state of mind for a while earlier
in life and I didn&rsquo;t feel like I was missing anything.&rdquo;
</div> 

Indeed.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
But now where I&rsquo;m at because I&rsquo;m not in a relationship, I miss being
close and intimate and having a heart connection with someone, you know.
So there&rsquo;s this dichotomy going on in me and &hellip;
</div> 

And it&rsquo;s going on in everyone.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And I think most of us beings who are associating our bodies and
emotions as males are wanting probably more intimacy than the female
gender seems to want to have. I don&rsquo;t know. It just seems to me like
that&rsquo;s a common perception anyway.
</div> 

Well, come on. Be honest. Even when you&rsquo;re getting more, it&rsquo;s still not
a happy life, is it?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
That&rsquo;s correct. There&rsquo;s a price to pay.
</div> 

What I mean is when you&rsquo;re getting more, the fundamental problematic
nature of existence still confronts you.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yes.
</div> 

The promise though is that if you shift operating systems, you will
still have intimacy except that now it will be able to be infinitely
intimate. But you also have the promise of losing the problematic nature
of existence. The question is are you miserable enough yet to have the
willingness to try something new? Or are you not adventurous enough yet
because you can tolerate the misery?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
That&rsquo;s exactly &hellip; I&rsquo;m glad you brought that up because
I&rsquo;ve been thinking like, you know, I&rsquo;m in this lukewarm
state and God make me miserable enough so that I can give up like I did
before.
</div> 

God can&rsquo;t make you any more miserable than you are.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Because I&rsquo;m not miserable enough evidently to go into complete surrender
and say I&rsquo;m through with trying to do this on my own and just give in
into God.
</div> 

At least you&rsquo;re honest enough to acknowledge that. And
there&rsquo;s nothing&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And if I could be more miserable, maybe I would give up. I don&rsquo;t know.
</div> 

You have been more miserable than this and you didn&rsquo;t give up.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Well, once I did.
</div> 

So what&rsquo;s the answer? I can&rsquo;t cause misery for you to make you change
your mind. I can&rsquo;t do anything to get you to change your mind. All I can
do is to inform you of your option, of your opportunity. So maybe it
would be helpful for you to know that until you change your mind, you&rsquo;re
stuck. Just very simply.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And I&rsquo;m not likely to go lay on a bed of nails or something just so I
can be more miserable than I am.
</div> 

No, because you would pick a bed of nails that would be tolerable. The
nails wouldn&rsquo;t be so far apart that it would be intolerable. You see,
it&rsquo;s all a game. It&rsquo;s all a game. All of you are all playing a game. And
even your misery that you create for yourself is always just as much as
you can tolerate. And I&rsquo;m going to tell you something. You create
illness for yourself that is terminal, and you know what? Even that is
tolerable to you. Even that is tolerable to you. So the threat of death
is not sufficient to cause you to change your mind. Interesting, huh? So
at the bottom line the reason for your changing your mind is not going
to be the depth of your misery. It&rsquo;s going to come from some place else.
And it&rsquo;s going to come from a place of conscious intelligence within you
that finally says, &ldquo;You know what? I&rsquo;m going to abandon this foolish
game and I&rsquo;m going to head for Home just because.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
It&rsquo;s good to hear that Awakened Ones have an even fuller experience of
what we in the ego state consider pretty fulfilling.
</div> 

&ldquo;We in the ego state.&rdquo; You&rsquo;re not in an ego state!
You&rsquo;re acting out an ego state.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Well, okay. I guess I didn&rsquo;t state it right.
</div> 

No, you stated it the way everybody states it and it&rsquo;s a way you
keep yourself fuzzy. You&rsquo;re not in an ego state and you
don&rsquo;t have an ego.  You are the Christ behaving in a consciously
selected way and then believing the choice of behavior that you&rsquo;ve
chosen to practice. You say, &ldquo;Those who are awake blah, blah,
blah.&rdquo; And I&rsquo;m telling you that you at this moment, which I
have referred to as the Place of Excellence in you who you think you are
at the moment, is fully in possession of its faculties as the Christ
right now, right there where you are. At the moment because you&rsquo;re
in denial of it, it&rsquo;s called the Holy Spirit. But the Holy Spirit
is your very Being, your very Divinity. It is your Divine Perspective
which is being constantly derived from the Movement of God, your Source.

Now, this section that we&rsquo;re looking at is called &ldquo;Healing
as Joining.&rdquo; If you want to wake up, if you want to finally be rid
of the misery of the quote &ldquo;human condition&rdquo; unquote,
you&rsquo;re going to choose to join with One Who Is Awake. You&rsquo;re
going to turn to the Altar to gather the Facts of Being from the Father
through the Holy Spirit, or your Guide which serves the same Function as
the Holy Spirit. And you&rsquo;ll persist in that until it&rsquo;s more
and more consistent, and more and more continuous. And that&rsquo;s the
way you&rsquo;re going to shift operating systems. And if you decide to
be fuzzy and not make up your mind quite yet, go ahead and do it.
Don&rsquo;t make up your mind quite yet, but be aware You Are The
Ultimate right now, the Christed One, the Son of God, choosing in this
moment to behave as though you are less than that and then choosing to
believe what your behavior expresses, thereby apparently forgetting Who
You Are.

Now, a word to everyone. Everyone incarnated, I&rsquo;m going to put it that
way, everyone that you might run into on the face of your planet is to
one degree or another engaged in this and suffering from the engagement,
just as you are. And the call is for you to witness for the excellence
in your Brother instead of agreeing with him, or instead of formulating
your own definition of him and agreeing with that definition which has
nothing to do with that which is excellent in him.

Stop looking at others and saying, &ldquo;He&rsquo;s ancient. He&rsquo;s
old. He&rsquo;s poor.  He&rsquo;s stubborn. She&rsquo;s
difficult.&rdquo; Stop doing it because it blinds you to the excellence
in them, and it prohibits you from behaving in a way that illuminates
and uncovers the excellence in them to them. And it keeps everyone in a
constant state of defense against these poor images which you are
utilizing in your mind and verifying, confirming and reestablishing over
and over and over again in a constant state of misery.

You&rsquo;ve got to start changing your habits. Stop. Change the way you
are using your minds. You must start witnessing for the excellence in
your Brothers and Sisters whether they see it or not. Now, what if you
are witnessing for the best or the excellent in your Brothers and
Sisters, a Brother or a Sister, and that one does not catch the flavor
or the vision with which you are embracing them and they behave in a
manner that is hateful or harmful, well, what do you do? Do you say,
&ldquo;This one is not worthy of my acknowledging the excellence in them
and I need to protect myself against their hateful behavior that is
directed toward me&rdquo;? No.

You must be willing to do two things. You must be willing not to abandon
your role, your Function as the Christ which is to feel and acknowledge
God in each and every thing because that is the Function of your very
presence, your existence, your existing. And at the same time that you
refuse to abandon the vision of What They Divinely Are, you also, in
very practical terms, refuse to join them in the dance that they would
try to initiate with you of negative action and reaction; negative
action on their part and reaction in you. You refuse to join in reaction
and you say &ldquo;No&rdquo; to the behavior.

It&rsquo;s very important for you in your day-to-day relationships with people
to respond from the Integrity you find you have in the Place of
Excellence within You, and refuse to respond to the dance that you&rsquo;re
invited to participate in, and make a call for correction in the
behavior, the hateful behavior. A call for correction.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Thank you, Raj. You&rsquo;ve given me, and I think most of us, a full plate. I
feel like I would like to pass the mic to whoever else has a question.
</div> 

Okay.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
What&rsquo;s been up for me since this last meeting &hellip;
</div> 

Oh, what page is this with reference to?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
In that chapter switching operating systems. And my point being you once
told me that when a Brother, when I see bad behavior happening,
inappropriate behavior which is abusive, in order to effectively be the
answer to the call for help, we have to shift into the correct operating
system and we do that by asking God for help. And at the same time &hellip;
</div> 

I&rsquo;m going to interrupt for just a moment.

Every single one of you does basically know the difference between right
and wrong, between what works and what doesn&rsquo;t work, whether you
are divinely inspired at the moment or not. You know what hurts and what
doesn&rsquo;t hurt. You know what&rsquo;s beautiful and what isn&rsquo;t
beautiful. Who of you has any difficulty going into a jewelry store, let
us say, on Rodeo Drive in Beverly Hills and looking at the jewelry there
and recognizing that it&rsquo;s beautiful, as opposed to the jewelry
that you might see in Penney&rsquo;s in their little jewelry department?
Who has any difficulty looking at royal or imperial jewelry or art and
has any difficulty recognizing exquisite beauty? You all know the
difference between beauty and ugliness.

You all know the difference between what hurts and what doesn&rsquo;t. And so
if you see something going on that is hurtful, don&rsquo;t hesitate to say
&ldquo;No&rdquo; to it on the basis of your simple innate ability to recognize the
difference between what is right and what is wrong, what hurts and what
doesn&rsquo;t hurt.

Now, if someone pulls a gun out and points it at you and they are in a
frenzy and unstable, are you going to stand there trying to get centered
and trying to hear the Voice for Truth, the Holy Spirit in you, to come
up with exactly the perfect answer? Not if you&rsquo;re wise. Not if you&rsquo;re
practical. You&rsquo;ll get out of the range of that gun [snap of the fingers]
as quickly as you can and that will be your way of saying &ldquo;No.&rdquo; You will
object spontaneously.

Now, if you have time to listen so that you can hear what would be the
ultimately appropriate way to deal with this, do it. Not all abusive
circumstances call for an instantaneously, immediate response.

But I&rsquo;ll tell you something. It&rsquo;s a shame to let abuse continue that you
recognize as abuse because you&rsquo;re waiting for the perfect answer. Do you
hear what I&rsquo;m saying? That is spiritual stupidity. If something is going
on that is abusive, don&rsquo;t hesitate to blurt out your &ldquo;No,&rdquo; your
objection. Otherwise, your attempt to be spiritually perfect becomes
nothing more than a delay in the provision of relief from abuse.

Now hopefully you are changing operating systems. Hopefully as a result
of changing operating systems, you&rsquo;re more consistently in touch with
Guidance so that Guidance is available to you on the spot. But for God&rsquo;s
sake, and I mean for God&rsquo;s sake, for the sake of that which is God in
each and every one of you, don&rsquo;t delay in objecting to abuse in order to
get centered and connected with your Divine Source and feeling the
movement of being on the beam so that you can hear with utter clarity
how to be the Presence of Love in this situation so that there is
blessing for all involved. Perhaps there&rsquo;s another punch to the face
that occurs while you&rsquo;re doing that. Perhaps there&rsquo;s another dig that
someone has applied to a so-called friend.

And you know what? You know what is perhaps the ultimate insult to your
Brother, the Christ, who seems to be confronted with abuse? It&rsquo;s you
saying, &ldquo;Maybe he or she needs this experience in order to wake up.
Maybe I should just bite my tongue and say and do nothing. After all
this may be the part of the human condition, this may be the very
experience that will turn the tide for them and cause them to shift. And
so I will stand in support of hate because in this instance hate may be
just the ticket for this person. The results of hate may be just the
ticket for this person.&rdquo; Do you see how distorted your spirituality can
become?

&ldquo;Well, you know what? Maybe sin, disease and death really has some
divine purpose. After all, they wouldn&rsquo;t be having the experience
for no reason at all.&rdquo; And then it&rsquo;s said, &ldquo;Well,
remember, Raj, you said the Holy Spirit can turn everything to your
advantage.&rdquo; Well, thank God the Holy Spirit can, because it means
there is an answer to an unjustifiable experience of suffering and
limitation and lack. But don&rsquo;t take what isn&rsquo;t real,
don&rsquo;t take what is hateful, don&rsquo;t take what is unloving and
say, &ldquo;Maybe this is just the thing it will take for the Holy
Spirit to turn it to their advantage.&rdquo; That in itself is hate.

But you have provide to healing and wholeness. First section,
&ldquo;Healing as Joining.&rdquo; And the next section, &ldquo;The Mind
of the Atonement.&rdquo; Wow! All of these have to do with integrity,
integration, unification, the coming back into the Experience of
Individuality which is Indivisibility. And Indivisibility is not your
personal indivisibility, but it&rsquo;s the Indivisibility of
God&rsquo;s Ideas universally joined, in other words.

Therefore whatever causes you to delay in witnessing for the excellence
in your Brother, I&rsquo;m going to be very bold here, is sin. It is the exact
opposite of Truth. It is the exact opposite of your Function. And when
you deny yourself your Function, you are caught in quote &ldquo;the human
condition,&rdquo; your dream. And there&rsquo;s no way that you can say looking at
another, &ldquo;Maybe he or she needs this hateful experience because it might
just be the thing that will move them over the threshold.&rdquo; That is not
your Function. That is not you witnessing to the Place of Excellence in
your Brother, witnessing to the Presence of God in your Brother. And it
does nothing but delay transformation.

Now, I will let you continue.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Well, I&rsquo;m aware of what you have just said. What I was concerned about
was not putting the tips on the arrows when they fly and being in a
place in my mind where &hellip;
</div> 

You know what? When they fly from where?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Whatever direction they&rsquo;re coming.
</div> 

From you?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
No.
</div> 

Towards you?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Towards me.
</div> 

Yes. What does that mean, &ldquo;not putting tips on the arrows&rdquo;?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
It means not reacting.
</div> 

What does &ldquo;not reacting&rdquo; mean?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Getting emotionally upset which is being in judgment. The reason I
brought this up is because I have had a hard time in the past standing
up for myself because I would react. So I know that there is another
place I have to shift to in order to be more objective about what
I&rsquo;m seeing, but yet from a calm place and not from a reactive
place.
</div> 

Your capacity to say &ldquo;No&rdquo; with the Power of the Universe
behind it might be a roar emerging from your throat that sounds like an
insane eruption of vocal noises that one could look at and say,
&ldquo;Wow! She&rsquo;s really in a state of reaction.&rdquo; But
because it came out of your mouth from the tips of your toes, because
you knew with utter clarity that what was happening was inappropriate
and there was a call for correction, would cause the correction to
occur.

What you&rsquo;re talking about will cause delay in the necessary objection.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yeah, I know. I&rsquo;ve experienced that.
</div> 

I&rsquo;m going to tell you something else. Many times when you stand up
for yourselves, all of you, and you&rsquo;re shaking and you are uneasy,
you are unsettled, and you express your objection without control and
without dignity, but you express it well so that it is heard, whether
it&rsquo;s accepted or not, it&rsquo;s heard, all that&rsquo;s happening
is that you are speaking from an Integrity in you that you&rsquo;re not
used to acknowledging.  And that you are used to soft pedaling or
pushing down and it takes that much energy for you to speak from your
Integrity and get it past your lips.

And then you say, &ldquo;Boy, I have to get pretty angry in order to
speak up for myself.&rdquo; No. And then you say, &ldquo;Wow, I was
being emotional and that isn&rsquo;t spiritually correct. That is ego.
Emotions are ego stuff.&rdquo; And you talk away what was perhaps one of
the few times that you spoke from your Integrity, even though it took so
much courage to do it because you don&rsquo;t feel it that much that it
came out awkwardly. Do you see what I&rsquo;m saying? And then your ego
will misinterpret it as anger and emotion. The ego will interpret it as
an ego reaction. Isn&rsquo;t that funny? The pot calling the kettle
black. The ego will say, &ldquo;That was an ego reaction, Trish. Shame
on you. Now next time you get in your centered place.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
That&rsquo;s so true.
</div> 

&ldquo;And you get your act together because until you do that you have
no right and no real place of divine authority from which to express
yourself.&rdquo;

So, do you understand that what I&rsquo;m talking about has to do with
operating from the new Operating System?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yes, I do. That&rsquo;s why I&rsquo;m asking this question.
</div> 

Okay. I&rsquo;m not just asking you. I&rsquo;m saying that to everyone
here and everyone who&rsquo;s listening on the internet.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
It seems that we have concepts &hellip; I&rsquo;ll speak for myself. I
may have a concept about how this Operating System is supposed to
operate.
</div> 

Oh, absolutely. Your egos will immediately provide you with a structure
within which to consider this new Operating System. So that then you can
say, &ldquo;Well, step one, get calm. Step two, lean into my Guidance.
Step three&hellip; &rdquo; You know, except that there will be, you
know, a thousand and one steps and all the time that you&rsquo;re taking
those steps, abuse is occurring, objection isn&rsquo;t being made. And
all the time that you&rsquo;re doing that, you&rsquo;re feeling so good
about yourself because you are doing it the right way. And because
you&rsquo;re doing it the right way, there will be a blessing for you.
Hopefully the person&rsquo;s who&rsquo;s getting killed in the process
will get a blessing, too.

I&rsquo;ll tell you. I&rsquo;ll give you all a hint. Join with your
Brother first, and then reach for the Holy Spirit. Don&rsquo;t reach for
the Holy Spirit and wait to join with your Brother in witnessing for the
excellence in him or her. And mind you, sometimes joining with your
Brother or your Sister means objecting to hateful behavior that they are
expressing toward you.  Don&rsquo;t justify hate. There is no spiritual
principle that justifies justifying hate.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
The argument has come up that, well, I don&rsquo;t want to confront anyone.
</div> 

Oh, of course.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And confrontation has always meant to me something negative.
</div> 

Can&rsquo;t you get a proxy?

Is there a proxy anywhere in the group that will &hellip;? Maybe somebody
else will do it.

Hopefully when you have a need, somebody won&rsquo;t say the same thing and
not reach out a hand that could save you. Do unto others as you would
have them do unto you.

I keep saying it. Involvement, involvement, involvement. Involvement
isn&rsquo;t done by a proxy. It&rsquo;s not done with loving thoughts from a
distance. It means standing there with your Brother or Sister, getting
into the nitty-gritty where the need is and bringing correction to it
because you care enough to witness for the best in your Brother or
Sister.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
That brings a lot of flak with it.
</div> 

You don&rsquo;t think I get flak? [some audience laughter] A lot of people
hate me, Michael. [audience laughter]

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I&rsquo;ve never see it.

So we have permission then to stir up the shit.
</div> 

No, you don&rsquo;t.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
No?
</div> 

Where you gonna go to find the shit to stir?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I don&rsquo;t have to go to look for it.
</div> 

Your attention is on the wrong place. Don&rsquo;t have your attention on
stirring shit. Have your attention on being the Presence of Love that
cares enough about your Brother or Sister to cast your vote publicly out
there, up front, so that hurt and harm cannot continue unobjected to.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I totally appreciate your clarifying this. In principle I&rsquo;m in agreement
with that, of course.
</div> 

No one has the right to hurt their Brother or Sister until they&rsquo;re
stopped. It isn&rsquo;t as though there&rsquo;s some innate right you all have to do
anything you want until you&rsquo;re corrected. You can&rsquo;t say, &ldquo;Well, you
know, he&rsquo;s just expressing himself. He&rsquo;s just exploring new territory of
self expression as he runs by and snatches the purse off the old ladies&rsquo;
arm.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Raj, I think to encapsule it, the whole thing here, is either people get
angry and say nothing, can&rsquo;t say anything, or they get hurt and can&rsquo;t
say nothing. And these are the two emotions &hellip;
</div> 

Who are these &hellip; who is? The person objecting or the person &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I&rsquo;ll speak for myself. The person objecting, or the person to whom the
abuse is targeted.
</div> 

Start over now.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
It has been my experience in my life whenever I have perceived abuse, I
couldn&rsquo;t stand up for myself in the moment it was happening. I couldn&rsquo;t
find my voice because I was emotionally hurting.
</div> 

Indeed.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And so&hellip;
</div> 

How wonderful it would have been for you if there had been Brothers and
Sisters standing around you who felt that it was their function to say
&ldquo;No&rdquo; to the abuser, to witness for you. And to witness for the abuser by
causing the abuser to stop doing what didn&rsquo;t reflect their true nature,
as well. That is a shame that that was your experience. And what I&rsquo;m
talking about is what will correct that experience for everyone in the
future.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Right. Unfortunately &hellip;
</div> 

And you know what? Maybe you had some incredible insights as a result of
the whole horrible experience.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I did.
</div> 

But that is not justification for not helping someone else. It&rsquo;s by the
grace of God, the Holy Spirit, that it was turned to your advantage.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Absolutely.
</div> 

So is there anything remaining unclear in your mind at this moment? You
were asking a question.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I was only concerned about being in the place where I can speak up in a
way that&rsquo;s helpful when I see abuse or inappropriate behavior taking
place. That is joining with or being in, from the right Operating
System. And you said even if you don&rsquo;t think you&rsquo;re coming from the
right operating system, just open your mouth and do what you see that
will be helpful. Because &hellip;
</div> 

Raise objection.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yeah. Because I care.
</div> 

Exactly. What other intelligent choice do you have?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
None.
</div> 

Good.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I only brought this up because I know there are many who are like myself
used to be who can&rsquo;t for some reason get involved or say something.
</div> 

Does anyone have any question on this subject?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
This is something exactly what I&rsquo;ve been struggling with since last
summer when I just blew up at my boss and I did everything you just
said, that I justified it until it made no sense to myself, and actually
I was acting on my Integrity. So I remembered that and that was really
significant to me and I&rsquo;ve begun trying to stand up when I see something
that I think needs to be challenged. And [I&rsquo;ve] been watching myself to
make sure that I&rsquo;m not coming from emotion or ego. If there&rsquo;s enough
time I can stop and ask, &ldquo;Oh, what do I say here?&rdquo; And I do, it does
feel exactly like you said. It&rsquo;s coming from the tips of your toes, and
your entire body feels the truth of what you&rsquo;re saying and you can&rsquo;t
hold it in.

And I think if you &hellip; that&rsquo;s where I don&rsquo;t feel the
judgment I&rsquo;m that I used to feel against the person whom I saw the
behavior. It seems like I&rsquo;m released from judging them and all of
a sudden I feel like I&rsquo;m on their side. Of course, they
don&rsquo;t feel like that usually, but that&rsquo;s okay. Finally it is
okay. And I care enough about them to say, &ldquo;Whoa.  Hello. Wake up
here. Whoa. Whoa. Whoa. You&rsquo;re making a big mistake.&rdquo; Just
try to find some way to do it. And sometimes it comes out real awkward,
but with practice it starts getting easier and easier and then calmer
and the most amazing, creative things come out of your mouth.
</div> 

Part of it is because the more you do it, the less inertia is present.
When it first comes out and feels like an explosion, most of the dynamic
is the overcoming of inertia within you; your own reluctance to let your
Integrity have expression just because it&rsquo;s really there.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Kind of like all of the suppressed things behind it too, like a cork in
a bottle. All of a sudden the cork gets released and by God, you&rsquo;re
going to have your say finally and somebody&rsquo;s going to listen. So, and
then once you do that, you don&rsquo;t want to go back, put the cork back in
the bottle.
</div> 

That is correct.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And it&rsquo;s very uncomfortable sometimes and then my ego gets a hold of it
and says, &ldquo;Oh, so you think you&rsquo;re the corrector, huh? You can go around
and tell everybody how to be. You&rsquo;re not right and you&rsquo;re not right.&rdquo;
But then that &hellip;
</div> 

That&rsquo;s stirring shit. But I am not talking about quote &ldquo;being the
corrector of people.&rdquo; We&rsquo;re not talking about being some sort of
authority, having some sort of position that you&rsquo;re carrying out. What
we&rsquo;re talking about is being the Presence of Love responding from your
capacity to be Love that cares enough about another to speak up and
object to what is unjust or what is hateful. Do you see the difference?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Oh, absolutely.
</div> 

Okay.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
That&rsquo;s all I have to say. Thank you.
</div> 

You are welcome.

A full get-together. I&rsquo;m glad we have shared together today. And I look
forward to being with you next Saturday and Sunday.

Thank you for letting me be the corrective Presence of Truth. Whether
correction has occurred or not, you have provided me with the
opportunity to be the corrective Presence of Truth. Now you be that all
week.

Okay.

[^1]: Students comments and questions

