---
title: Nov 2, 2003
ref: "T5.6 The Two Decisions"
alink: "/acim/text/05/chap0506/"
---

Good afternoon. And welcome to everyone who is joining us on the
Internet.

All of you, each of you, whether you know it or not, or whether you
believe it or not, each of you has been entrusted with something very
Holy. In the past it is something that has been spoken of as being
written in your hearts. This Something Holy that you have been entrusted
with is the Presence of God, the Presence of God Being God right where
you are. This Something Holy that you have been entrusted with to carry
with you, to let no harm come to, to protect, is your Divinity.

Now it wasn&rsquo;t given to you as though you at first did not have it and
then it was given to you. In the beginning it was you, but when you
decided to have a different slant on everything, a unique perspective on
Reality, and you abandoned your Sonship or Daughtership and thus
abandoned your Father and thereby lost your Identity, your Divinity
became hidden by you because you gave preference to something else&mdash;a
voyage, if you will, into fantasy.

And so you have been carrying this Holiness around with you and it&rsquo;s
time for you to uncover It. It&rsquo;s time for you to stop suffering from the
fantasies that you have developed. It&rsquo;s time for you to stop keeping
your Divinity so well hidden that no one, not even you, has the
slightest idea that It exists.

We have been talking about the fact that this Holy Thing that you&rsquo;ve
been entrusted with is the Holy Spirit which is nothing more than your
Right Mind. And we&rsquo;ve referred to this as an operating system, a Divine
Operating System, if you will, and the ego&rsquo;s frame of reference and
imaginative fantasies as the other operating system.

Now, I&rsquo;m bringing this up for a specific reason. You all know I do not
indulge in idle chitchat. This past week a judge in New York City has
rendered the copyright to A Course In Miracles invalid. And this is
creating quite a stir. For some it is a stir of joy; for others it is a
stir of concern, even fear, et cetera.

The general consensus is that the Course is now free for anyone to speak
about, to quote in any way, shape or form that he or she wishes. The
Course is free&mdash;free from restrictions. But I want to keep a little
well-grounded perspective here. There are hundreds and hundreds of
thousands of copies of the Course that have been printed in the last 27
years in multiple languages. It isn&rsquo;t the Course that needs to be free;
it&rsquo;s you, each one of you.

And if it&rsquo;s now possible for anyone and his brother to publish the
Course so that there are perhaps billions of copies available, if one of
you doesn&rsquo;t shift from one operating system to the other, the first
domino will not have been pushed over that will start the chain reaction
of awakening. It takes guts. It takes commitment. And at the bottom line
it takes a real inner Experience of Love to dare to make the shift to
what is nothing more than your Right Mind, and abandon the fascination
with the ego&rsquo;s frame of reference and its imaginative, fantastic, and
totally illusory perceptions of the Kingdom of Heaven and of you.

The weight, you might say, [laughing] in the world of another billion
copies of A Course In Miracles will not provide any one of you with the
guts to make the shift, and their presence in themselves will promote
nothing. All that the Course can do is to bring you to a point of a
reasoned ability to make a commitment to What Is Real, a commitment to
being the Presence of Love that is Love with a capital &ldquo;L&rdquo;, because it
is gathering the Sense of Being, the Perspective of Being, the Truth of
Being, directly from its&hellip; your Source&mdash;the Father.

More powerful than all the copies of A Course In Miracles in the world
is just one of you making commitment to the shift and endeavoring
throughout your day to come from that Place of Excellence in You that
causes you to be this scary thing called Being The Christ.

What is the Christ? God embodied? Awesome? Foreign? Alien? That which
will strike doom for those engaged in evil? [gently whispered] No. The
Christ is the Presence of Love that meets its Brothers and Sisters with
the clear recognition that they are the Christ as well, even if they
don&rsquo;t yet know it, and even if in not knowing it, they feel afraid and
vulnerable. And the Christ is the simple Presence of kindness that meets
them where they are without frightening them, without throwing a lot of
religious verbiage at them, and says things that awaken in them their
Love for the Truth and their desire to know more about it, and their
willingness to be less defended against it in their life. You hear that?
In their life! Not to be less afraid of it as it spews forth from your
mouth.

The Christ knows what to say to help another not be as afraid, or how to
be with them in a way that causes them to be less afraid. Because at the
bottom line it&rsquo;s fear and your preoccupation with it and the validation
of threat that it seems to secure in your mind that keeps you in a state
of defense which blocks you from knowing the Truth about yourself, about
your Brother and Sister, about your world.

This book, A Course In Miracles, does nothing but point you toward the
Holiness that you&rsquo;ve been entrusted with which needs to be embodied; not
hidden, not kept secret from the world and yourself.

And I promise you I will keep all of your noses pointed in the right
direction so that you attend to, and are inspired to attend to not what
will free the Course but what will free you and what will thereby free
your Brother, because you can&rsquo;t gain your freedom by yourself. Your
freedom comes in your extension of freedom to your Brother. And because
you haven&rsquo;t the faintest idea to how to free your Brother, it means that
you have to turn to God to be inspired. You have to be willing to turn
to the Place of Excellence in you that I&rsquo;ve assured you is there,
already capable because of What It Divinely Is of knowing what to say
and what to do. And when to be silent. And when to just hug. And when to
just smile. And when say &ldquo;No&rdquo; with utter gentleness but absolute
firmness.

You know what? You can say it&rsquo;s time to change operating systems in at
least 30 different languages. To be free to do it in even more languages
won&rsquo;t constitute the actual changing of operating systems, the actual
getting up in the morning and approaching your day with innocent eyes
and the willingness and a desire to see What God Is Being right where
you thought just the world was, and What God Is Being right where puny
little piss-ant you has been, and then to give voice or expression to
the vision that opens up to you.

Okay, enough said about the copyright issue, as well as what the real
issue is.

Going to the Text.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*The Two Decisions* [^1]

Perhaps some of our concepts will become clearer and more personally
meaningful if the ego&rsquo;s use of guilt is clarified. The ego has a
purpose, just as the Holy Spirit has.
</div>

In other words, both operating systems have a purpose, have a structure
which is aimed at a specific kind of operation.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego&rsquo;s purpose is FEAR, because ONLY the fearful can BE egotistic.
The ego&rsquo;s logic is as impeccable as that of the Holy Spirit because your
mind has all the means at its disposal to side with Heaven or earth, as
it elects.
</div>

How could the ego&rsquo;s logic be as impeccable as that of the Holy Spirit?
How could it even be impeccable at all? The reason is that because a
Christ, you, each one of you, with all of your Divinity cannot help but
bring into play in whatever your mental endeavor is all of the nature
and character of What You Divinely Are. And so, when you create an
illusion for yourself, you create an impeccable illusion. The logic it
uses to confirm and reinforce its fantasy is as impeccable as the logic,
you could say, that God embodies in all of His Creation.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego&rsquo;s logic is as impeccable as that of the Holy Spirit &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; Why?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; because your mind &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Christ that you Are &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; has all the means at its disposal to side with Heaven or earth, as
it elects.
</div>

With What Is Real or with what is illusion as it elects.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
But again, let us remember that both are in YOU. In Heaven there is no
guilt because the Kingdom is attained through the Atonement, which
releases you to create.

The word &ldquo;create&rdquo; is appropriate here because, once what YOU
have made&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; as an ego &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is undone by the Holy Spirit&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your right Mind &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the blessed residue is restored, and therefore continues in
creation.

What is truly blessed &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in other words, anything that you have embodied that was an
expression of what is Real about you, even though you may have done it
for wrong reasons.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is incapable of giving rise to guilt, and MUST give rise to joy.
This makes it invulnerable to the ego because its peace is unassailable.
It is invulnerable&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; to destruction &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; to disruption BECAUSE it is whole. Guilt &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the foundational basis of the ego&rsquo;s operating system &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is ALWAYS disruptive. Anything that engenders fear is divisive
because it obeys the law of division.
</div>

And I&rsquo;m adding: not of unification.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If the ego is the symbol of the separation, it is also the symbol of
guilt. Guilt is more than merely not of God. It is the symbol of the
ATTACK on God. This is a totally meaningless concept EXCEPT to the ego,
but do not underestimate the power of the ego&rsquo;s belief in it.
</div>

And remember when it says, &ldquo;the power of the ego&rsquo;s belief in it,&rdquo; it
means the power of the belief that the Christ That Is You is exercising
in the establishment and reinforcement of a fantasy, an illusion.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is the belief from which ALL guilt really stems.
</div>

Let&rsquo;s sort of express it in more human terms. When you have said, &ldquo;I
want a divorce from you, Father,&rdquo; and you think that you have managed to
get a divorce from your Father, then, as I&rsquo;ve said before, you cease to
be a Son or a Daughter and you have lost your Identity. You are now an
orphan, at least in the conviction of your belief. As an orphan you are
alone with no ties, adrift. And because in order for you to be an
orphan, you had to deny your Father, and it has caused you to lose your
Identity, you know you must be guilty of something because there is an
experience of fear that was never yours before you made this declaration
of independence. To deny your Father and lose your Identity is what
constitutes an attack on God.

Now the ultimate fact is that God can&rsquo;t be attacked and you can&rsquo;t stop
being the Expression of God. And so you haven&rsquo;t stopped being the direct
Expression of God. You haven&rsquo;t at this very moment stopped being God
Embodied by God. So the guilt and the fear are illusions. But the Christ
That You Are ignorantly created those illusions and made commitment to
them with all the power of God, you might say. And so you feel the guilt
and you feel the fear, and for all intents and purposes it is absolutely
real to you, even though it is not real at all.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego IS the part of the mind which believes in division.
</div>

Believes in division.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
How can part of God detach itself WITHOUT believing it is attacking Him?
</div>

Meaning God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
We spoke before of the authority problem as involving the concept of
USURPING God&rsquo;s power. The ego believes that this is what YOU did because
it believes it IS you. It follows, then, that if you identify WITH the
ego, you MUST perceive yourself as guilty. Whenever you respond to your
ego you WILL experience guilt, and you WILL fear punishment. The ego is
quite literally a fearful thought.
</div>

This means then that any time you are experiencing fear, you may know
that you&rsquo;re in a state of illusion. You may know that at that moment you
are operating from an operating system which is invalid and that you
have another choice available to you. And recognizing that, you will not
labor under the fear, you will not wilt in front of it, collapse and
succumb to it. You&rsquo;ll make a different choice. You&rsquo;ll choose for the
Other Operating System.

And no matter how convinced you are that there is justification for the
fear, you will put your weight on the side of the Real Operating System.
You will put your weight on the side of what is nothing more than your
Right Mind and that will be your escape from fear.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
However ridiculous the idea of attacking God may be to the SANE mind,
never forget that the ego is NOT sane. It represents a delusional
system&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; a delusional operating system &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and it speaks FOR it. Listening to the ego&rsquo;s voice MEANS that you
believe it is possible to attack God. You believe that a part of
Him&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; You. That&rsquo;s not in the Text.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You believe that a part of Him has been torn away by YOU.
</div>

By your bill of divorcement.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The classic picture of fear of retaliation FROM WITHOUT then follows
because the severity of the guilt is so acute that it MUST be projected.
Although Freud was wrong about the basic conflict itself, he was very
accurate in describing its effects.
</div>

Freud didn&rsquo;t say that the basic conflict was you and your bill of
divorcement from your Source that caused you to lose your Sonship or
Daughtership, and therefore your Identity.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Whatever you accept INTO your mind has reality for you. It is, however,
only your ACCEPTANCE of it that makes it real. If you enthrone the ego
in it&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the ego operating system &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the fact that you have accepted it or allowed it to enter MAKES it
your reality. This is because the mind, as God created it, IS capable of
creating reality.
</div>

This mind that God created that is your mind is capable of creating
Reality, not separate from God, with God.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
We said before that you must learn to think WITH God. To think with Him
is to think LIKE Him. This engenders joy, not guilt, because it is
natural. Guilt is a sure sign that your thinking is UNnatural.
</div>

Again, if you&rsquo;ll just let that sink in, you will realize when you find
yourself experiencing fear that you are experiencing something
unnatural, not natural to you, not normal for you, not your Birthright,
and therefore invalid.

None of you really is willing to be subject to an illusion. None of you
would consciously choose to be deluded. And so when it does dawn on you
that if you&rsquo;re experiencing fear, you&rsquo;re experiencing a delusion which
it&rsquo;s not your Birthright to be experiencing, you will consciously choose
to find a way to abandon the delusion so that you won&rsquo;t suffer from
insanity, from something that isn&rsquo;t real.

And that&rsquo;s what allows you to turn to your Father and say, &ldquo;Father, what
does this mean? Is there justification for fear? What&rsquo;s the Truth here
that would uncover to me either the justification for fear, or its total
illusory nature and the fact that I need not honor it in any way, shape
or form. Father, help.&rdquo;

And of course thereby you reestablish the connection, you undo the bill
of divorcement, even though you might be doing it as a last resort in a
state of panic without any intent whatsoever to continue the
relationship indefinitely. But it doesn&rsquo;t matter because if the opening
is there, the connection is made. And whether you choose to abandon it
or not later, the connection at that moment is not withheld from you.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Is fear ever justified?
</div>

The question is asked, &ldquo;Is fear ever justified?&rdquo; Absolutely not! One
doesn&rsquo;t have to be afraid in order not to stick his finger into an
electrical socket. One can understand that it&rsquo;s not an intelligent thing
to do and decide not to do it. Fear is not essential to intelligent
action ever. But one has to be leaning into a Source, you might say, of
Intelligence, rather than a source of unintelligence, to have
intelligence available that allows one to be without any occasion for
fear. Do you see what I mean?

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Perverted thinking will ALWAYS be attended with guilt because it IS the
belief in sin.
</div>

Oh, I know, you want to know why would I, why do I use words like
&ldquo;perverted thinking&rdquo;? &ldquo;Can&rsquo;t you be a little
kinder in your choice of words. I would get the message.&rdquo; Well, if
I thought you would get the message with a weaker word, so to speak, I
would use a weaker word. But it&rsquo;s important for you to know that a
wrong thought is a wrong thought, is a wrong thought, is a wrong
thought, is an untrue thought, is a thought that is not in harmony with
God, is a thought that has perverted, converted for unloving purposes
some aspect of the Awareness of the Kingdom of Heaven and it is
perverted.

Does that make you perverted? No. It means that you are simply what you
have always been, the Christ, the perfect Son or Daughter of God using
your mind in a way that it can&rsquo;t actually be used, and believing the use
you are putting to it, and suffering from your belief without anything
that&rsquo;s Real having been altered at all.

So here you stand, or here you sit right now, listening to my words from
a place of distorted perception. And yet that which is listening is the
unalterable living Christ, the Son and Daughter of God, not affected in
any way, shape, or form by a fantasy that never became true. And so you
are not perverted, but your perception is altered. And the alteration
needs to be corrected so that you&rsquo;re not seeing Reality through a lens
that causes it to appear to be to you something that it&rsquo;s not. It&rsquo;s that
simple.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego does not perceive sin as a lack of love. It perceives sin as a
POSITIVE ACT OF ASSAULT.
</div>

This is the definition of will, willfulness: the energy and the means
of accomplishing the establishment of an illusion as Truth, and the
coercion of your Brothers and Sisters into adopting the concept you&rsquo;re
embracing and making commitment to it so that in the joined strengths
of what we could only call deluded Christs, you create for yourselves a
state of mesmerism so total and so complete that it seems to you to be
absolutely solid and real.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is an interpretation which is necessary to the ego&rsquo;s survival
because, as soon as you regard sin as a LACK&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; not a positive act of assault &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you will automatically attempt to remedy the situation. And you
will succeed.
</div>

Those last four words are the key words. As soon as you regard sin as a
lack, you will automatically, it&rsquo;s like naturally, spontaneously attempt
to remedy the situation. Well, you&rsquo;re all used to attempting to remedy
things. It may or may not work. But the last four words let you know,
&ldquo;And you will succeed.&rdquo; Why? Because in order to do it, you have had to
move to the Other Operating System. And from the Other Operating System
you are thinking with God.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego regards this as doom, but YOU must learn to regard it as
freedom.
</div>

That&rsquo;s also important. You must learn to regard it as freedom. It will
not seem like freedom to begin with because you think you are an ego.
The ego is what you think you are. And so when it sees doom, you think
you are seeing doom. And so you have to bring into play some
self-discipline, so that when you feel the threat that accompanies a
willingness to abandon sin, you can use reason and logic to remind
yourself that the fear you are feeling is not legitimate, that the doom
that you are feeling is not your doom but the sense of yourself that
you&rsquo;ve been entertaining that&rsquo;s feeling the doom.

And that for you it means freedom. For you it means coming back into
your Right Mind. For you it means having the Holy Spirit descend upon
you and uncover Itself as You to you and be You without any resistance
from you.

So be aware it&rsquo;s going to take some self-discipline. You must learn to
regard it as freedom and you must persist with the learning until the
shift occurs. And you have, each one of you, ample opportunities all day
long to practice this.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The guiltless mind CANNOT suffer.
</div>

It doesn&rsquo;t say that it, the guiltless mind, doesn&rsquo;t suffer.
It doesn&rsquo;t say the guiltless mind only suffers very occasionally.
It says:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The guiltless mind CANNOT suffer.
</div>

Suffering finds no lodging place in the guiltless mind, this Place of
Excellence in you. It&rsquo;s already in you. Your Right Mind is already in
you. Your Right Mind is already all there is to you. And It cannot
suffer and It is not suffering. And that experience is available to you
if you&rsquo;ll simply wish to experience the Other Operating System.

Of course, in order to experience the Other Operating System, what are
you going to have to do? You&rsquo;re going to have to abandon your
independence. And how are you going to do that? You&rsquo;re going to
say, &ldquo;God, help!&rdquo; You&rsquo;re going to have to invite
Something into your privacy.  And you&rsquo;re going to have to be
willing to abandon your right, your supposed right to privacy, and
you&rsquo;re going to have to share your space with God, with the Holy
Spirit.

&ldquo;Well, I don&rsquo;t know if I want to be transformed by the
Presence of the Holy Spirit in my space. Who knows what that might
mean?&rdquo; Well, you know, a few months ago maybe you could have said
that. But now you know that the Holy Spirit is nothing more than your
Right Mind. It&rsquo;s You with a capital &ldquo;Y&rdquo;.

And so you can&rsquo;t claim through ignorance that you have no idea what it
will be like to let the Holy Spirit share your space. You know that at
the bottom line it&rsquo;s going to have to mean you experiencing the
omnipotence of What God Is Being right where you are. You know that it&rsquo;s
going to have to mean experiencing the integrity of your union with all
of your Brothers and Sisters. You know that it&rsquo;s going to have to mean
the experience of invulnerability in your world. Not because the world
is hostile but it can&rsquo;t reach you, but because You and the World are
One, and it is therefore benign. And it is because it is benign and you
are benign that everything is invulnerable, because there is nothing to
be vulnerable against.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Being sane&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the guiltless mind &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; it heals the body because IT has been healed.
</div>

And I&rsquo;m going to say it heals the world because it, the guiltless mind,
your mind, having abandoned the sin of trying to be independent, has
been healed. And the scales have fallen from your eyes. The division,
which is the nature and character of the ego operating system, has
dissolved in the face of preexisting, eternally preexisting Unity that
was always available for you to experience.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The sane mind cannot conceive of illness because it cannot conceive of
attacking anyone or anything.
</div>

And if it cannot &hellip; this is me, not the Text &hellip; and if it cannot
conceive of attacking any one or any thing, it likewise cannot conceive
of being attacked by any one or any thing.

The Conscious Experience of Unity right here and right now in what you
call the world is available to you to experience because it is the
unalterable Truth of Everything. And that&rsquo;s why at the bottom line
it&rsquo;s worth your attention, your effort, your self-discipline, to
look at everything with new eyes and with a willingness to abandon a
defense system that is always on high alert.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
We said before that illness is a form of magic. It might be better to
say that it is a form of magical solution.
</div>

Magical, fantastic, fantasy, a groundless idea or set of ideas, a
baseless set of ideas treated as though it had substance to it and
believed and acted upon.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego believes that by punishing ITSELF it will mitigate the
punishment of God. Yet even in this it is arrogant. It attributes to God
a punishing intent, and then takes over this intent as its OWN
prerogative. It tries to usurp ALL the functions of God as it perceives
them because it recognizes that only total allegiance can be trusted.
</div>

Well, this is true, only total allegiance can be trusted. But you don&rsquo;t
have anything available to you to give total allegiance to except That
Which Is Real. And giving total allegiance to a fantasy, to that which
isn&rsquo;t real, is a non-event, is a non-action.

It&rsquo;s interesting, isn&rsquo;t it, that &hellip; it&rsquo;s like
self-flagellation and self-punishment is a way of saying to God,
&ldquo;I recognize my sins and I&rsquo;m suffering for them, and
therefore you don&rsquo;t have to punish me.&rdquo; But the one thing it
doesn&rsquo;t say is, &ldquo;And I&rsquo;m not going to indulge in my
sins any more. I&rsquo;m not going to indulge in the act of self-will
that causes me to experience myself as separate from You, Father.
I&rsquo;m not going to engage in acts of self-will that constitute an
ongoing act of divorcement.&rdquo; You see, it doesn&rsquo;t say that.
So it says, &ldquo;I will punish myself so that You don&rsquo;t have to
and so that I don&rsquo;t have to abandon my independence which I value
so highly, even though in order to maintain it I must constantly punish
myself.&rdquo;

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The ego cannot OPPOSE the laws of God any more than YOU can, but it can
INTERPRET them according to what it wants, just as YOU can. That is why
the question, &ldquo;What DO you want?&rdquo; must be answered. You ARE
answering it every minute and every second, and each moment of decision
is a judgment which is anything BUT ineffectual.
</div>

You see? There it is again. That which is making the decision is the
Christ That You Are, the Holy Son or Daughter of God That You Are, and
you cannot make an ineffectual decision. The only thing you cannot do is
cause a second creation separate and apart from God to arise into
existence. You can believe that you have and you will suffer from the
belief. Why? Because your decisions are not ineffectual for you.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Its effects &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the effects of judgment &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; will follow automatically &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and this is all capitalized words &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; UNTIL THE DECISION IS CHANGED.
</div>

Until the Christ That You Are makes a new choice and a new commitment,
and therefore a new decision, because your decisions cannot be
ineffectual because of What You Divinely Are, even though you sit in
this room and for the most part are in a constant state of denying the
possibility that You Are The Christ.

You don&rsquo;t want to be the Christ. You might want to be the Christ
if you could do it secretly and no one would know it. But the last thing
you want to do is get up in the morning and face your world and have the
world see you glowing, and have the world feel the Presence of God right
where you are. Because you are afraid if you were that odd, you would be
attacked. You would be ridiculed. You don&rsquo;t want to be the Christ,
at least not publicly. And yet, the call is for you to look into your
Brother&rsquo;s or Sister&rsquo;s eyes and remember God while
you&rsquo;re looking them in the eye. There&rsquo;s no way to do that
privately!

But remember what I said. Being the Christ means being the Presence of
Love, with a capital &ldquo;L&rdquo;. And being the Presence of Love
means being the on-the-spot inspired Conscious Awareness that knows how
to be in such utterly simple but effective ways with your Brother. And
all you might do is put your arm around that one&rsquo;s shoulder, or
smile, or say, &ldquo;You know, maybe, maybe you don&rsquo;t need to be
quite as afraid as you are and here&rsquo;s why. Here&rsquo;s the way it
looks to me.&rdquo; And just be the absence of fear with them. You
don&rsquo;t know how it&rsquo;s going to come out. But by damn it dare
to be from that Place of Excellence in You because it will be
recognizable as Love to those to whom you are led to extend it.

The only ones to whom it will not appear as Love are those who are
fascinated by and committed to what they see to be the pleasure of
engaging in hate, who pleasure in it because it gives them a sense of
identity that they don&rsquo;t think they can achieve in any other way.
And therefore the Presence Of Love That You Are would be a threat, an
overt-aggressive threat to their fascination with sin. But your
willingness to come from the Place of Excellence in You and to be
inspired of the Father how to be in that moment, you&rsquo;ll know
whether to walk away or whether to persist in ways that you
couldn&rsquo;t imagine as being effective at all.

There are fewer people indulging in sin than those who are not. And as I
said last week and the week before, if you are met by someone who
refuses your gift and are committed to non-acceptance of it, then turn
toward those who are reaching out.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Its effects &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the effects of judgment &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; will follow automatically UNTIL THE DECISION IS CHANGED. This is
repeated here because you have not learned it.
</div>

You see? &ldquo;Oh, but I&rsquo;m learning it! I&rsquo;m learning
it!&rdquo; But then when I say &ldquo;Are you willing to get up in the
morning and go out and be the Presence of the Christ publicly?&rdquo;,
you recognize that if there were a less public way to do it, you really
would rather do it that way. And so you have not learned it yet.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
But again, your decision &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; not to have learned it &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; can be UNMADE as well as made.
</div>

Can be unmade as well as made.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Remember, though, that the ALTERNATIVES are unalterable.

The Holy Spirit, like the ego, is a decision.
</div>

It&rsquo;s one of the two operating systems. And which one you&rsquo;re using is
nothing more and nothing less than a decision you are making on the spot
every single moment.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Together they constitute all the alternatives which the mind can accept
and obey. The ego and the Holy Spirit &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the two operating systems &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; are the ONLY choices open to you. God created one, and so you
CANNOT eradicate it. YOU &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Christ that you Are &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; made the other, and so you CAN.
</div>

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God created one, and so you CANNOT eradicate it. YOU made the other, and
so you CAN. ONLY what God creates is irreversible and unchangeable. What
YOU have made can always be changed because, when you do not think LIKE
God&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; this is what I was saying last week &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you are not really thinking at all. Delusional ideas are not real
thoughts, although you CAN believe in them.
</div>

And here are the key words again.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
But you are wrong. The function of thought comes FROM God and is IN God.
As part of His Thought, you cannot think APART from Him.
</div>

You know the phrase, &ldquo;Reach out and touch someone.&rdquo; At various times in
your lives, something has happened and the person you are with has been
touched by something you said or did, because in that moment you
happened to be defenseless enough to be inspired by the Father, to be
the Presence of His Will and the Expression of the Place of Excellence
in You. And you functioned from the Other Operating System. And the one
you were with was literally touched and changed by the encounter. And
then, all the rest of your life, nothing significant like that has ever
happened.

What I want to say to you is notice that, because it constitutes a
clear, distinguishable difference that allows you to see that
occasionally something extremely valuable has happened. And all the rest
of time, nothing of that sort has happened. Notice the difference so
that you might stay connected with the desire to have that evidence of
your being a transformational agent for change. That&rsquo;s how you honor the
Place of Excellence in You. And that&rsquo;s how you invite God to be embodied
more fully in you so that you in your Right Mind, you in the Conscious
Experience of Sanity, can replace the fantasy experience of yourself
that is to one degree or another an experience of misery, suffering,
anxiety, tension, exhaustion, the absence of fun.

This section in the sparkly book is entitled, &ldquo;The Two
Decisions&rdquo;&mdash;the decision for one or the other of the two
operating systems.

Last week in the section we were discussing, we talked about the fact
that you&rsquo;re always teaching. Whichever operating system
you&rsquo;re coming from, you&rsquo;re teaching and you&rsquo;re
embodying in the world. And one of them confirms and reestablishes
misery, and the Other establishes release from that misery.

You can&rsquo;t say, &ldquo;Well, hey, what difference does it make if I
don&rsquo;t come from the Place of Excellence in me for a while? What
difference does it make? Nobody else is either. You know, I know
Armageddon isn&rsquo;t coming.  And hey, things aren&rsquo;t that bad,
you know. And so rather than get up on a bandbox and teach something and
be a transformational Presence, I&rsquo;d rather do nothing at
all.&rdquo;

Well, friends, you can&rsquo;t do nothing at all! If you&rsquo;re not
doing that, you are on another bandbox and you&rsquo;re teaching the
other operating system. And to those who are using the same operating
system you are, you are an effective presence on behalf of continued
ignorance.

So don&rsquo;t think that right now you&rsquo;re doing nothing. And if
you choose for the Other Operating System, you will be taking a stand
for something. You&rsquo;re taking a stand for something right this
minute! And you cannot not be taking a stand for something. So take a
look squarely at this. If you really thought for a moment that what you
were contributing was that which caused ignorance and suffering to be
extended, well, you would have no more truck with yourself than you have
with so-and-so down the street that&rsquo;s being awful. You see?

So, I&rsquo;m going to say don&rsquo;t get hung up on the fact that if
you&rsquo;re not coming from the Place of Excellence in You, that you
are &hellip; you&rsquo;re being &hellip; what was the word back here
[turning pages] &hellip; a perverted presence in the world. In the world
of the ego, you are being a perverted presence, but you&rsquo;re not
accomplishing anything by it and you&rsquo;re not affecting Reality by
it, but you are keeping yourself and others from experiencing Reality,
Harmony, Unity.

Don&rsquo;t get hung up on that. Just realize that you&rsquo;re not
really being the good boy or the good girl who&rsquo;s not really doing
bad things in the world, and therefore what difference does it make if
you wait a little while to actually be the dynamic Presence of Love that
is transformational for yourself and your Brother. Don&rsquo;t think
that it doesn&rsquo;t make any difference if you wait a little while.
Because either you&rsquo;re teaching that, either you&rsquo;re teaching
what causes sudden shifts of perception to occur, healing, or you are
doing what inhibits sudden shifts of perception, miracles. You&rsquo;re
doing one or the other absolutely. Own it.

Contemplate this one point for this coming week. You&rsquo;re teaching
one or the other fully. You are teaching one or the other with
commitment. You are teaching one or the other aggressively. Knowing that
will allow you to feel motivated to make a conscious choice, instead of
an unconscious choice, for one or the other. And that&rsquo;s the way
movement begins. That&rsquo;s the way the first domino begins to fall.

It won&rsquo;t fall because a billion more copies of the Course can now
be freely printed and distributed in the world. It will happen because
you today, tomorrow, the next day, are realizing that you&rsquo;re
teaching all the time and you&rsquo;re either teaching that which
unifies or you are teaching that which divides. And you are teaching it
with the Power of the Christ That You Are.

Well, this coming week I know it&rsquo;s going to feel good to us to
have more of you standing with us consciously. And to the degree that
you make commitment to it, you will feel us standing with you and that
will be a wonderful confirmation of the Truth of what I&rsquo;ve been
saying to you. And it will also be that which will add impetus,
strength, if you will, to your willingness to make a commitment in a new
direction.

I love you all and I look forward to seeing you next week.

[^1]: T5.6 The Two Decisions

