---
title: Nov 9, 2003
ref: "T5.6 The Two Decisions; T5.7 Time and Eternity"
alink: "/acim/text/05/chap0506/"
---

Good afternoon. And, as usual, welcome to everyone who is joining us on
the Internet.

In so many words, someone said to Paul, ask Raj to be gentle with us
today. I want to remind you that at every moment you are companioned by
mighty companions, if I may put it that way. You are never alone. And in
this transfer from one operating system to the Other, you have available
to you the ready and willing and encouraging support of Me, of your
Guides, and of course, the Holy Spirit, which is nothing more than your
Right Mind.

You know, I am being gentle with you. It&rsquo;s just that I&rsquo;m sharing the
simplicity of all of this in a way that makes awakening seem to you to
be easier, and therefore more unavoidable. In other words, the simpler
it gets, and the more unavoidable it gets, the more you&rsquo;re in the
position of, as they say, putting your money where your mouth is,
putting your actions where the Truth of you is.

And that&rsquo;s meaning, that&rsquo;s going to mean a change of behavior, a change
in the way you convey who you are by means of your behavior, and the way
in which you convey to your Brother who they are by your behavior.

The interesting difference between doing that and what you have been
doing in the old operating system is that in the old operating system
what you were conveying about yourself to your Brother and what you were
conveying to your Brother about your Brother was all for the purpose of
control, was all for the purpose of manipulation. But when you shift
operating systems, you convey to your Brother Who You Are and Who They
Are because you see Who They Truly Are by virtue of your not claiming a
mind separate from God with which to see your Brother and Sister. And
therefore, your vision of them that you are conveying, and your
experience of yourself that you are conveying, is not for the purpose of
control at all, but for the purpose of glorifying Truth, for the purpose
of glorifying God by expressing no other Mind than His.

The fundamental means by which you coerce each other from the old
operating system&mdash;the one I&rsquo;m calling old, even though it&rsquo;s the one
you&rsquo;re primarily using at the moment&mdash;is guilt. Guilt, if you are able to
convince another of his or her guilt, is the precursor to judgment and
penalty. And that strikes fear in every single one of you. Guilt and its
use are absent in the new operating system. And, in a way, that&rsquo;s what
makes moving to the new Operating System scary, because without guilt as
the primary means of leveraging others into behaving in a way that
provides you with whatever your sense of safety is, will not be
available to you from the new Operating System. And, up until now, the
use of guilt has been your only effective means of providing yourself
with safety. Therefore, at the bottom line, guilt, according to the old
operating system, has been the one effective means of securing your
salvation. Do you see?

And when you use the word &ldquo;salvation,&rdquo; you do give it divine overtones.
And when you give it divine overtones and you speak about your
salvation, you lend an incredibly insane coloration to the meaning of
guilt. Guilt is not only the means of your salvation; it must thereby,
because it serves a divine purpose, be utterly and truly valuable. Now
none of you thinks things through very completely, but if you think
about what I&rsquo;ve said, where I&rsquo;ve thought it through completely and
expressed it completely, you can see how idiotic it is. You can see how
idiotic it is for you to employ guilt in getting others to behave the
way you think they ought to behave. And that, of course, calls for a
change in your behavior. But you can also see how idiotic it is for you
to play into another&rsquo;s ploy directed at you, which you tend to
voluntarily knuckle under to… for fear of judgment and penalty.

I&rsquo;m going to begin reading.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Irrational thought &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and isn&rsquo;t that what we&rsquo;ve just been talking about?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Irrational thought is a thought DISORDER. God Himself orders your
thought because your thought was created BY Him.
</div>

Mary Baker Eddy said, or wrote: &ldquo;Angels are God&rsquo;s Thoughts passing to
man spiritual intuitions, pure and perfect.&rdquo;

When you aren&rsquo;t busy creating your own thoughts and you are silent, the
flow of God&rsquo;s Thoughts become noticeable to you. And they are
experienced right where you have always had all of your own private
thoughts. And as you let that happen, you begin to be able to recognize
that this flow of spiritual intuitions is the natural function of your
mind, constitutes you being in your Right Mind, and that all you are
called upon to do is to embody or give expression to those spiritual
intuitions, pure and perfect.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God Himself orders your thought because your thought was created BY Him.
Guilt feelings are always a sign that you do not know this.
</div>

And I&rsquo;m inserting: Because you don&rsquo;t know it, you busy yourself with
creating your own thoughts and your own opinions and your own
definitions. And then you do your darnedest to use guilt to convince
your Brothers and Sisters of the correctness of your definition in order
to get them to agree with you, so as to increase the strength of your
thought by the joining of others in agreement with it.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
They&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; guilt feelings &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; also show that you believe you can think apart from God AND WANT
TO.
</div>

Wanting to think on your own is not truly possible. You can&rsquo;t &hellip; you,
the Divine One That You Are, can&rsquo;t truly want to do what you can&rsquo;t do.
You can&rsquo;t want to do what is impossible. You can&rsquo;t want or desire to not
be in your Right Mind.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Every thought disorder is attended by guilt at its inception and
maintained by guilt in its continuance. Guilt is inescapable for those
who believe they order their own thought and must therefore obey its
orders. This makes them feel RESPONSIBLE for their mind errors, without
recognizing that, by ACCEPTING this responsibility, they are really
reacting irresponsibly. If the SOLE responsibility of the miracle worker
is to accept the Atonement for himself, and I assure you that it is,
then the responsibility for what is atoned FOR cannot BE yours.
</div>

Little bit of a mind-bender there. If you are engaging in the disordered
thought of using guilt to make others yield to your will, and they react
from their will, and this creates a dynamic of stress, you might think
that the way to correct it, to correct the distress, is to heal that one
of his reluctance to yield to your will. It&rsquo;s that simple. When the
answer, the true resolution to the problem, is for you to shift
operating systems. That&rsquo;s what constitutes the Atonement&mdash;shifting
operating systems.

It isn&rsquo;t your responsibility to correct the individual problems. It&rsquo;s
your responsibility to shift to the Operating System in which the
problem doesn&rsquo;t exist because independent authority doesn&rsquo;t exist, and
therefore coercion never comes into play and never has to be defended
against.

And here&rsquo;s the difficult thing. You do this right in the arena where the
problem seems to be going on. You must shift operating systems so that
the messages, the messengers, you are sending out to a problematic
Brother or Sister arise from Clarity of Truth that you are experiencing,
where you are not &hellip; where you are not buckling under to the call for
guilt that&rsquo;s being presented to you and retaliate in the old mode of
returning guilt for guilt in an attempt to win the battle of the wills.
And you must do this even though it feels to you as though you no longer
have any authority at all, when authority of the kind you have been used
to seems to be being called for, and seems to be essential.

Remember it always takes two to tangle. And if you withdraw from the
contest, there is no contest no matter how much the so-called quote
&ldquo;opponent&rdquo; unquote wants the battle to continue and wants you to remain
in the battle mode.

And so you must dare to make a commitment to shift operating systems and
then reflect and embody Truth right in that arena, to reflect and embody
Love right in that arena, because Something in you knows that the making
of the shift to the new Operating System is the only thing that will
truly resolve the apparent differences and the apparent conflict. And so
you must have guts and commitment and resolve.

I&rsquo;m going to take a moment here to bring something else out. We&rsquo;ve
talked before about the fact that when you got a bill of divorcement
from your Father, and you became Fatherless in your own mind, you lost
your Identity. In that state of lost Identity, of being an orphan, you
have endeavored to create an Identity for yourself out of whole cloth,
out of pure imagination. What I want you to very clearly see is that
every independent authoritative act you have engaged in has caused your
lack of Identity to become even more pronounced. Every overt willful act
of independence has obscured Who You Are further.

Therefore, every act of independence has been an act of Self-denial, not
an act of self-creation. You see? I want you to at least grasp this
intellectually. Every willful act of independence has obscured Who You
Are even further. And so the result has been the exact opposite of what
you have thought you were attempting to achieve. And the only way in
which your Identity is going to be reestablished in your experience is
by your abandoning your very conscious, insistent attempts to be
independent. Just let that sit there for a moment.

Now how do you reverse this? You reverse it by saying in true prayer,
&ldquo;Father, help me.&rdquo; You break the isolation, as I&rsquo;ve said so many times,
by inviting into your space your Father, your Guide, the Holy Spirit.
You make room for something else with the conscious intent to embrace It
and yield to It. Those are the key words. Yield to It.

You think that there&rsquo;s the possibility of companioning with others
independently, being with others without abandoning your independence.
And as long as you are still intent on establishing your independence,
you are engaging in the establishment of the further obscuring of Who
You Are from everyone else, as well as from yourself, and thus securing
the dream of suffering, the experience of misery. It&rsquo;s that simple. And
the fact is that Joy is your Birthright, and it is available to you to
be experienced at this instant, at this instant, at this instant, at
this instant, every moment.

And again, those who companion with you, those of the Brotherhood Who
Are Awake, stand fully in support of your experiencing this Joy and the
Peace and the Love that it&rsquo;s your Birthright to be experiencing in every
moment, and to convey to you in every means possible the experience of
fearlessness, of comfort in the process of your shifting operating
systems. Be willing to let them in and accept their help, and yield to
their Vision.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The dilemma &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; of guilt feelings.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The dilemma cannot be resolved except by accepting the solution of
UNDOING.
</div> 

I&rsquo;m going to insert: the absence of the expression of authority, private
independent authority which has as its goal the accomplishment of
something, the doing of something actual.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You WOULD be responsible for the effects of all your wrong thinking if
it could not be undone. The purpose of the Atonement is to save the past
in purified form only.
</div> 

Which simply means minus the irrelevancies of self-will that you
introduced into the picture along with whatever you did that did reflect
the Father&rsquo;s Will, that did express your Divinity.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you accept the remedy for a thought disorder, and a remedy whose
efficacy is beyond doubt, how can its symptoms remain?
</div> 

I&rsquo;m going to say, how could the effects of something you never actually
did continue to distort your perception of what was really going on? It
can&rsquo;t.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have reason to question the validity of symptom cure&hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; that&rsquo;s like solving this little problem and solving that little
problem by coercing your Brother into obedience to what will provide you
with your safety.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have reason to question the validity of symptom cure, but NO-ONE
believes that the symptoms can remain if the underlying CAUSE is
removed.
</div> 

Well, is the underlying cause of your Brother&rsquo;s awful behavior the fact
that he hasn&rsquo;t learned how to Love yet? Or is it because you haven&rsquo;t
learned how to Love yet, and you&rsquo;re behaving in an atrocious way with
him? Does it mean that he needs to learn how to Love and you need to
learn how to Love? No! It means you need to get out of that operating
system where you are serving the one single goal of establishing the
reality of yourself as something independent of a Source. You see? It&rsquo;s
simple. But it&rsquo;s difficult to remember because you are so ingrained in
your well-trained, habitual responses to the expressions of willfulness
that are going on around you, and the expressions of willfulness that
you are putting out.

No one believes &hellip; no one believes that the symptoms can remain if
the underlying cause is removed. If you move out of the old operating
system, absolutely nothing that seemed to go on within it can be your
experience any more. It&rsquo;s that simple. And shifting operating systems is
the Atonement.

You see, you don&rsquo;t atone for your sins. Atonement means shifting into
your Right Mind in which sin, disease, and death do not exist. And your
fascination with them is no longer present in your mind. And your
seeming to be subject to them is no longer an experience available to
you. And your inclination to inflict them on others is no longer
present. This is very important to understand.

The next section is:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*Time and Eternity*[^2]
</div> 

Time and Eternity. Eternity, you might say, is the environment of
existing in the new Operating System. And time is what Eternity looks
like, feels like, and is experienced as when you&rsquo;re in the ego&rsquo;s
operating system. Time and Eternity are one and they are Eternity. But
please understand that what I&rsquo;m saying there is that time is Eternity
misperceived from within the willful state of acting independently.

Reading &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The CONTINUING will to remain separated is the only possible reason for
continuing guilt feelings.
</div> 

Do you get that? If you are continuing to will to remain separate, then
you are continuing to be in the arena where guilt is essential to
maintaining the dissonance that constantly needs correction, so that you
and your Brothers are constantly distracted from discovering that the
conflict does not lie in either one of you, but in the choice of vantage
point from which you are choosing to view the Only Thing available to
experience, which is the Kingdom of Heaven, which is Eternity, which is
Reality.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
We have said this before, but we did not emphasize the destructive
results of this decision at that time.
</div> 

And the word &ldquo;destructive&rdquo; is not too strong there. We could also say
&ldquo;distractive&rdquo; results.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
ANY decision of the mind will affect both behavior AND experience. What
you will, you EXPECT. This is not delusional. Your mind DOES create your
future, and it can turn it back to full creation at any minute&hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; key words &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; IF IT ACCEPTS THE ATONEMENT FIRST.
</div> 

In other words, if you make the shift to the new Operating System which
is really the Original Operating System, which is really the ancient
Operating System, which is really the Ever-Present, Eternal Operating
System.

Again, key words: &ldquo;It can turn it back to full creation at any minute.&rdquo;

Please understand that you&rsquo;re constantly standing at the threshold of
making that shift. You&rsquo;re constantly standing at the threshold of
abandoning authoritative self-will. It can happen in an instant. It can
happen at any minute. Not when you have finished the Course. Not after
several lifetimes. It can happen at any minute! Do not forget this, else
you can begin to believe that there is a process in time that must be
fulfilled before it can happen.

The Experience of your Right Mind is as close as your willingness to
stop thinking for a moment and make commitment to not thinking. That&rsquo;s
all the further away it is.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your mind DOES create your future, and it can turn it back to full
creation at any minute, IF IT ACCEPTS THE ATONEMENT FIRST.
</div> 

Again, if it will shift to the new Operating System.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
It will also turn back to full creation the instant it has done so.
Having given up its thought disorder,&hellip;
</div> 

It&rsquo;s a nice way, a simple way of referring to the old
operating system&mdash;&rdquo;a thought disorder.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Having given up its thought disorder, the proper ordering of thought
becomes quite apparent.
</div> 

And you become the mouthpiece for God. You become the Expression of God
that puts nothing in the way of What God Is Being right where you are to
obscure the Beauty of Creation That You Are. In your willingness to let
God Be What He Is Being where you are without your introducing anything
extraneous into the picture, you become what we have called a co-creator
with God.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God in His knowledge is not waiting, but His Kingdom is bereft while YOU
wait.
</div> 

As long as you are enjoying this state of independence and of free will
to do as you wish without yielding to the underlying order of the
Universe that you are part of, you block yourself from experiencing the
Brotherhood consciously as part of you. And in your defiant act of
independence, you hold yourself apart and unavailable to the rest of
the Brotherhood. And in that sense, the Kingdom is bereft.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
All the Sons of God are waiting for your return, just as YOU are waiting
for THEIRS. Delay does not matter in eternity, but it IS tragic in time.
</div> 

Tragic? Too strong a word? Well, you don&rsquo;t really think that your lives
are tragedies, but in light of the Gifts of Wholeness and Joy and Love
and Truth and Beauty and Harmony that you&rsquo;re missing, it is tragic.
Because not only are you missing it, you don&rsquo;t know you&rsquo;re missing it!
You think what you see is what you get. This is all there is. And you&rsquo;re
making the best of it. And you&rsquo;re trying to use your spirituality to
make the best of an illusion, to make the illusion more harmonious, when
what&rsquo;s called for is the abandonment of the illusion by the abandonment
of self-will, willful authoritative attempts to dominate.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have elected to be in time rather than eternity,&hellip;
</div> 

You didn&rsquo;t know you did that, but now you know that when you enacted
this bill of divorcement from your Father by saying, &ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;d
rather do it myself,&rdquo; and you lost your Identity, it caused Eternity to
be experienced as the illusion of time in which aging and death are the
ultimate benefit. Crazy, isn&rsquo;t it?

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have elected to be in time rather than eternity, and have therefore
changed your belief in your status.
</div> 

You lost your Sonship. You lost your Daughtership. And your status now
is orphan.

Ohhh. But an orphan that has the opportunity to declare herself or
himself, and make herself or himself into anything he or she wants to
be, and have the glorious experience of having private personal
authority that you can exercise in a dominating manner over your Brother
and your Sister and your world. Oh, how you value the state of
orphanhood and the promise you think it holds.

You have secured the rightness of this stance by providing another
definition, another meaning, that says God gave you free will. And so
you have made up a fantasy whereby God actually has authorized you to be
an independent, willful, self-made authority, and in fact, if you don&rsquo;t
succeed at doing that, you are not fulfilling your divine purpose. You
see? You see how this distorted sense of self and distorted experience
of reality that you&rsquo;re having in a state of so-called independence is
utterly insane, senseless, useless. But one which, nevertheless,
tragically blinds you to your Birthright so that you no longer even
think It exists, while all along you have continued to be the Divine One
That You Are, the Christ, the Son and Daughter of God, because the only
way that could be changed is in a fantasy. And fantasies do not
override, or alter, in any way Reality.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have elected to be in time rather than eternity, and have therefore
changed your belief in your status. Yet your election is both free and
alterable. You do not belong in time.
</div> 

Why do you not belong in time? Because time doesn&rsquo;t exist except as a
distorted perception of Eternity. You don&rsquo;t belong in time because there
is no time for you to be in actually.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your place is ONLY in eternity, where God Himself placed you forever.
</div> 

Okay. Your place is only in Eternity.

Well, who the hell knows what Eternity is?! How can this be relevant to
you? You know, what does Eternity have to do with tomorrow morning when
it&rsquo;s time to get up and go to work?

Well, you know what Eternity has to do with? It&rsquo;s real simple. Eternity
has to do with the fact that each one of you is unchangeably pure and
perfect. Eternity in the Here and Now in relevant terms means that you
are forever, for lack of better words, at your prime. You are incapable
right Here and right Now of aging. You are incapable right Here and
right Now from experiencing disease that debilitates and wears out your
body. It means that your Brother or Sister that you encounter in the day
is Eternal Being, not in the sense of endless time but in the sense of
instant, unchanging Perfection.

Eternity has to do with your looking at your Brothers and Sisters who
seem to be looking older today than yesterday, and saying, &ldquo;Tain&rsquo;t so. I
will not confirm the suggestion that&rsquo;s being presented to me that this
is a mortal existing in time moving on an inexorable path from birth to
death with accompanying distresses, both physical and mental, that
contribute to the ultimate of death.&rdquo;

The Eternal Is Forever Now in Absolute Perfection. And, as I said, in a
State of Primeness. So when you look in the mirror in the morning and
you see bags under your eyes that didn&rsquo;t used to be there, or breasts
that are a little lower than they used to be, or a paunch that didn&rsquo;t
used to be there, know that you&rsquo;re looking in and identifying with time,
when Right Now Eternity is the arena, the context of All Being, not
time.

The shifting of operating systems involves a shifting of the way in
which you are willing to apprehend what&rsquo;s going on around you, so that
you begin to say, so that you begin to recognize what&rsquo;s inconsistent
with the new Operating System, what&rsquo;s inconsistent with Eternity.

&ldquo;Mmm. The paint&rsquo;s beginning to peel on the house. The roof is thirteen
years old.&rdquo; You see? &ldquo;Wear and tear has occurred. Deterioration, which
is inevitable because everything is made of matter, is happening and
needs to be dealt with.&rdquo; Catch these little things as you see them so
that you can say, &ldquo;No! There is another way to look at this. If I am
being confronted with the only thing that&rsquo;s going on and that&rsquo;s the
Kingdom of Heaven, and if Eternity is the context in which All Of
Creation is occurring, then this evidence of deterioration cannot be so.
And I will not confirm it by agreeing with it.&rdquo; This is where the
self-discipline comes in. This is where the commitment in very practical
terms to the new Operating System must come into play.

There are in children&rsquo;s magazines and on the backs of cereal boxes
cartoons; two cartoons side by side that are almost identical, except
that there are six or eight variations. You need to become like the kids
who delight in finding the variations. You need to begin to delight in
finding the inconsistencies, so that you can identify it, and instead of
agreeing with it say, &ldquo;Tain&rsquo;t so! This does not reflect and embody
Eternity.&rdquo; You see? This can be fun. It can be delightful. And I&rsquo;m going
to put it this way. It is a very effective way to retrain your mind so
that your mind doesn&rsquo;t simply rehearse the old, habitual refrain of sin,
disease, and death, of time, and aging, and suffering. So that you break
down your natural inclination to reconfirm again, and again, and again,
the old operating system, the thought disorder.

And you know what? As you do that, you will become an agent for change
in your world because you will stop employing guilt as a means of
keeping your world in line, and your Brothers and Sisters. And at the
same time, you will find yourself unsusceptible to invitations to guilt
that others extend in your direction as a means of getting you into
line. And you will have less and less to be upset with your Brothers and
Sisters for. You see? It isn&rsquo;t that they extend an invitation of guilt
to you that bothers you. What bothers you is after you have accepted the
invitation and are now suffering from having accepted it.

We&rsquo;re going to stop here, but there&rsquo;s one thing I want to reassert for
you to remember. Every act of authoritative self-will that you engage in
for the purpose of demonstrating your successful, independent existence
constitutes the reinforcing of your obscurity. Every act of
authoritative self-will is a demonstration of Self-denial that covers
you up more completely than ever before. Remember this.

Because I promise you, as the Divine One That You Are, or the ego that
you think you are, you truly do not want to push yourself further and
further into nonexistence. None of you does. And you wouldn&rsquo;t be
employing the ego&rsquo;s means of demonstrating your real presence if you
knew that it was obscuring your Real Presence. And that&rsquo;s why I&rsquo;m making
such a point of it for you today so that that will be clear, because
then the Impulse To Be that is the very core of your existence, the
Divine Core Of Your Existence will be able to come forth into expression
through means that will secure the clearer and clearer and more obvious
manifestation of your Real Identity as God Being God right there where
you are and you glorifying God by introducing nothing extraneous to What
God Is Being right there where you are, and your thereby experiencing
yourself from what is nothing more than your Right Mind.

I love you all. And your Light is a little bit brighter tonight. I don&rsquo;t
care how old or young you appear to be. Your Light is timeless. Your
Being is timeless. Your Individuality is timeless. And the Visibility
and Tangibility of your Individuality is timeless, in Its Prime,
available for you to experience at any moment without any growth or
development on the part of your ego needing to occur in order to have
that experience.

I look forward to being with you next week.

[^1]: T5.6 The Two Decisions
[^2]: T5.7 Time and Eternity

