---
title: Nov 23, 2003
ref: "T5.8 The Eternal Fixation"
alink: "/acim/text/05/chap0508/"
---

Good afternoon. And welcome to everyone who is joining us on the
Internet.

I would like a show of hands. Have any of you ever found studying or
reading the Course depressing?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Frustrating, kind of.[^1]
</div>

Frustrating is a distress. Well, let me say this right now. That
isn&rsquo;t supposed to be, that isn&rsquo;t intended to be the result.
But it is understandable that that reaction occurs because as you read,
it appears that you are being taught that you are all insane to one
degree or another. And the nature of your insanity is picked apart piece
by piece and illuminated to you. And what I want to address right now is
that to have mistakes that you&rsquo;re making uncovered to you is not a
process by which you become convicted of wrongdoing, although the ego
will use it that way.

The mutually-agreed-upon definitions that you have evolved, and the
agreement that you have amongst each other is all called into question
by the Course. The reason being that these agreements have been arrived
at on a false basis. And if no one tells you this, you&rsquo;re stuck.
If someone tells you this, it doesn&rsquo;t mean you&rsquo;re convicted.
It means that you have the information necessary in order to do
something different, in order to get unstuck. And so, the purpose of the
Course is to inspire you, not convict you and depress you.

I notice however, and I&rsquo;m not addressing this specifically to
those of you in this room, but I notice, however, that many students of
the Course pick up on the apparent fault-finding that seems to be part
of the Course and they go on internal witch hunts within themselves, and
they go on external witch hunts exploring the faults of others,
uncovering the faults of others. And they call this love, because they
think this is what the Course is about.

We&rsquo;ve been going through the Course for over a year now, and I
think that if you will look back, you will find that I have been
pointing your eyes and your attention in the direction of acknowledging
God where you haven&rsquo;t been looking for God&mdash;right in the
petals of the flower, in the glass on the table, the trees outside, and
each other.

I have been doing everything I can to inspire curiosity and openness of
mind, that which does not call into play self-defense, because it has
your attention turned toward something other than yourself, other than
your current sense of yourself.

Oh, in the last two weeks we&rsquo;ve talked about the non-materiality
of matter, the fact that everything that you see and can touch is pure
Spirit and is Idea rather than a physical object, that the Energy of
Spirit that constitutes your body is not a physical energy, it is pure
Idea.

Now, how many of you have become curious about the capability that you
each have to move this idea from one place to another instantaneously,
because there is no mass of matter to have to move by means of laws of
physics? In other words, teleportation, or even levitation, or walking
through a wall.

And of course, we have ongoingly talked about the fact that healing can
be instantaneous because there is no physical mass of matter that has to
reconfigure while being obedient to the laws of matter, or what you
could call the laws of physics. And so how many of you have been being
curious enough to explore the healing of a mole or a wrinkle or a
disease that you seem to have? And to persist with it.

You see, the point is to be inspired, to not become obsessed with the
way things appear to you. The presence of a mole that is not attractive
does not express the beauty and symmetry of your perfect body. The
desire to see God right there where your body is, where this Idea is
that is perfectly visible and tangible to mind without having any
material accompaniments to it at all.

I promise you that as you begin to be curious to see beyond the
definitions you&rsquo;ve currently given everything, you will find the
intent raising objections in you. In other words, whatever resistances
you have to healing or levitating or teleporting will present themselves
to you, and then you can address them. You don&rsquo;t have to go on a
witch hunt to find all your flaws before you can turn toward God.

The point is to turn toward God first. And then, whatever openness you
have to seeing more of the Presence of God where you are will, in
itself, uncover to you the reasons you don&rsquo;t think it can happen.

You will find yourself saying, &ldquo;Mmm. Well, let&rsquo;s say that I
actually succeeded in teleporting to the base of the Eiffel Tower. I
might be so excited by the experience that I couldn&rsquo;t possibly
have enough peace to get back. And what would I do then in France
without a passport?&rdquo; You see?

You will find resistances presenting themselves to you. And those are
the ones for you to release, those are the ones for you to ask the
Father or your Guide, &ldquo;How do I look at this? Reinterpret this for
me, so that I may either see the Truth of it, or the lie of it, and let
it go.&rdquo; In other words, start pushing the boundaries. Start
pushing your boundaries. Start letting your mind move outside the box,
instead of being obsessed with the current status quo.

We&rsquo;ve been discussing the fact that the human condition with all
of its suffering and misery and depression and so on, is a result of one
thing only. The attempt to be autonomous, the attempt to be an
independent authorizer, the attempt to see and think about everything
while leaving God out of the picture, and to determine what everything
is for yourself.

Obviously, the solution to that problem is not going to come through
further self-examination. The solution is going to come from reaching
outside, inviting something else in. A simple thing that we&rsquo;ve
been talking about all along.

And so, I encourage you, especially over this next two-week period in
which there is a holiday set aside for what? Gratitude! Use these two
weeks to push the boundaries, to desire to experience what is beyond
what you&rsquo;re currently experiencing, but which, if I&rsquo;m
telling you the Truth, is present for you to experience. That every
flower, every tree, every object you see, every paper cup, every CD,
every object you see is an idea, and even though it&rsquo;s tangible and
perceptible to you, it is still pure idea. It is still pure energy and
has no material accompaniments, no physical mass that must abide by
physical laws, laws of physics.

Everything you see is capable of responding to and reflecting the Mind
of God without being bound by anything other than the Father&rsquo;s
Intent.  And that is why as you abandon a sick sense of yourself, a
diseased sense of yourself, there can be instantaneous reconfiguration.
And that&rsquo;s why when there is a shift of your attention from one
location to another, there can be immediate movement to the new location
without the use of an airplane or any other physical means of travel.

What holds you in the human condition is your fascination with, and your
commitment to, the attempt to be an independent authorizer. An
independent, I&rsquo;m going to say, visionary where you can make up the
vision that you want to see and then see it, and thereby cause it to be
real, separate and apart from Creation Itself as the Father Is Being It.

So let&rsquo;s read and let&rsquo;s find out about redefining or
retranslating obsession, preoccupation, undying commitment to your
personal goals, undying commitment to your personal goals that keeps you
from experiencing Life fully, wholly, Divinely, satisfyingly and
joyfully.

Again I will be reading from the transcript as prepared by Bill
Thetford. And this section is entitled:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*The Eternal Fixation*[^2]

The idea of &ldquo;set&rdquo; is among the better psychological
concepts. Actually, it is used quite frequently in the Bible and also in
this course under many different terms. For example, &ldquo;God will
keep him in perfect peace whose mind is stayed (or set) on Him,&rdquo; a
statement which means that God&rsquo;s peace is set in the Holy Spirit
because it is fixed on God. It is also fixed in you. You, then, ARE
fixed in the peace of God. The concept of &ldquo;fixation&rdquo; is also
a very helpful one which Freud understood perfectly. Unfortunately, he
lost his understanding because he was afraid, and, as you know all too
well, fear is incompatible with good judgment. Fear distorts thinking,
and therefore DISorders thought.

Freud&rsquo;s system of thought was extremely ingenious because Freud
was extremely ingenuous, and a mind MUST endow its thoughts with its own
attributes. This is its inherent strength, although it may misuse its
power. Freud lost much of the potential value of his thought system
because he did NOT include himself in it. This is a dissociated state
because the thinker cuts himself off from his thoughts. Freud&rsquo;s
thought was so conflicted that he could not have retained his sanity as
HE saw it WITHOUT dissociation. That is why the many contradictions
which are quite apparent in his thinking became increasingly less
apparent to HIM.  A man who knows what fixation really means and yet
does not yield to it is terribly afraid.
</div>

Now listen to this.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Fixation is the pull of God, on Whom your mind IS fixed because of the
Holy Spirit&rsquo;s irrevocable set.
</div>

Remember the Holy Spirit is nothing more than your Right Mind. Your
Right Mind is forever fixed on God. Devoted. Committed. And truly
incapable of having any other focus of attention.

As I&rsquo;ve made clear to you, you can imagine that you can give your
attention elsewhere, and then you can believe your imagination. And then
you can make commitment to your imagination and become so involved with
it that you forget what your only true capacity to make commitment
involves, which is glorifying God, recognizing God in every single
thing, recognizing what is Real in every single thing, rather than what
you have determined it to be.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&ldquo;Irrevocable&rdquo; means &ldquo;cannot be called back or
redirected.&rdquo; The irrevocable nature of the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s set
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; or you could say &ldquo;fixation&rdquo;&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is the basis for His unequivocal Voice. The Holy Spirit NEVER
changes His mind. Clarity of thought CANNOT occur under conditions of
vacillation.
</div>

So what does that mean? That means that this Place of Excellence in You,
the Presence of the Holy Spirit that is your Right Mind, is actually
incapable of vacillation. Your Essential Being is utterly stable right
now, utterly clear right now, utterly intelligent right now, completely
at Peace right now, and it never varies. You in your Right Mind are
never in a state of variance, unevenness, disturbance, distress &hellip;
right now.

What keeps you from experiencing it? The fact that in your attempt to
look at everything through your own imagination and arriving at
agreed-upon definitions with each other, you take this Divine Nature of
yours to be fixated, to be unvaryingly committed to God, and you apply
it to what you want to give your attention to. This Divine One That You
Are uses Its Capacity to be unswervingly clear and focused on the Truth,
you take it and apply it to what you are choosing to believe, the
definitions you are choosing to give to everything. And you become
obsessed with that activity. You become inappropriately fixated. But the
fixation arises out of your Divine Capacity to be fixated on God, which
is your Function.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Unless a mind is fixed in its purpose it is NOT clear. Clarity literally
means the state of light, and enlightenment IS understanding.
Enlightenment stands UNDER perception because you have denied it as the
REAL foundation of thought.
</div>

And &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is the basis for ALL delusional systems.
</div>

Enlightenment doesn&rsquo;t really stand under perception, but
that&rsquo;s the definition you&rsquo;ve given to it and so it seems to
be so for you.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The concept of fixation, as Freud saw it, has a number of learning
advantages. First, it recognizes that man can be fixated at a point in
development which does NOT accord with a point in time.
</div>

You&rsquo;ve all, at one time or another, heard someone say, &ldquo;Yes,
he or she is 17 going on 34, or 34 going on 18,&rdquo; meaning that
someone has &hellip; their development has been arrested, you might say,
at 18 years-old, even though they&rsquo;re older. They&rsquo;ve become
fixated at a point of development that has nothing to do with their
actual years. You can all become fixated in your growth.

Continuing. In fact, repeating &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
First, it recognizes that man can be fixated at a point in development
which does NOT accord with a point in time. This clearly could have been
a means toward real release from the time belief had Freud pursued it
with an open mind. Freud, however, suffered all his life from refusal to
allow eternity to dawn upon his mind and enlighten it truly. As a
result, he overlooked NOW entirely, and merely saw the continuity of
past and future.

Second, although Freud misinterpreted what the Holy Spirit told him, or
better, reminded him of, he was too honest to deny more than was
necessary to keep his fear in tolerable bounds as he perceived the
situation. Therefore, he emphasized that the point in development at
which the mind is fixated is more real to ITSELF than the external
reality with which it disagrees.
</div>

Does that make sense to you? It&rsquo;s what we&rsquo;ve been talking
about. Your definitions that you give to everything, and the mutual
agreements that you come to about those things, means that you are
giving greater importance to your definition than to What The Thing
Really Is, and you are becoming fixated on your definition.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Therefore, he emphasized that the point in development at which the mind
is fixated is more real to ITSELF than the external reality with which
it disagrees. This, again, could have been a powerful RELEASE mechanism
had Freud not decided to involve it in a strong DEFENSE system because
he perceived it as an attack.
</div>

I come along and I share with you A Course In Miracles and I talk with
you and I uncover flaws in your thinking. I uncover illusions that you
are entertaining that you thought were real. And I say, &ldquo;There is
something more here than what you&rsquo;re seeing. You have bound
yourself to a limited perception and it&rsquo;s time for you to enlarge
your boundaries.  It&rsquo;s time for you to let go of your
tininess.&rdquo;

And your ego says, &ldquo;Attack! Attack! Everybody to their quarters!
Attack!  Attack! Take your stations!&rdquo; You see?

Freud had the same problem. And so Freud used psychology so as to be
able to better defend the threat without giving up the illusion. In
other words, now you know what your problem is, now we&rsquo;re going to
learn how to live with it. We&rsquo;re going to accept the problem, but
we&rsquo;re going to learn how to minimize its effects by greater
self-discipline of your mind. You see?

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Third, although Freud interpreted fixation as involving irrevocable
&ldquo;danger points&rdquo; to which the mind could always regress, the
concept can also be interpreted as an irrevocable call to sanity which
the mind cannot LOSE.
</div>

You see? There&rsquo;s the redefinition that leads to freedom.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Freud himself could not accept this interpretation, but throughout his
thought system, the &ldquo;threat&rdquo; of fixation remained, and could
never be eliminated by any living human being. Essentially, this was the
basis of Freud&rsquo;s pessimism, personally as well as theoretically.
He tried every means his very inventive mind could devise to set up a
form of therapy which could enable the mind to escape from fixation
forever, even though he KNEW this was impossible.
</div>

Do you see what I was saying there? I was saying that Freud&rsquo;s
recognition of fixation, which was a new recognition, was the Holy
Spirit&rsquo;s reminding him that the very state of Divine Being, of
Being Itself, involved fixation, involved one&rsquo;s unswerving
attentiveness to God in the Movement of Creation so as to be joined in
the Movement of Creation, and so as to experience What You Are in your
Totality as you were created to be, which again we could call
co-creators with God. But such a statement required abandoning the
personal private sense of self that you and Freud were entertaining, and
that was too threatening to him.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
If you know something is impossible, why do you keep trying to
invent&hellip;
</div>

The question is asked, &ldquo;If you know something is impossible, why
do you keep trying to invent &hellip;&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
As he did. He knew, but he kept inventing.
</div>

Well, for the same reason that you do, or any of the rest of you do.
Because you have this very stubborn belief that you can actually
succeed, independent of God, in creating something that would be as Real
as what God is creating. You all believe this deeply. At the very center
of your Being you know this is impossible. Logically it&rsquo;s
impossible because it&rsquo;s impossible for you to actually be an
independent thing.

You are having to use all of your Christ Capacity to create the
imagination. You are the Son of God, or the Daughter of God, and all of
this imagination that you&rsquo;re engaging in, and all of this attempt
that you are engaged in, to be independent and create something on your
own, is utilizing the very thing that denies the accomplishment of the
goal. Do you see what I&rsquo;m saying?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
So we know it but we don&rsquo;t know it.
</div>

It&rsquo;s said, &ldquo;So we know it, but we don&rsquo;t know that we
know it.&rdquo;

That is correct. You know it, but you are &hellip; you are ignoring
what you know. You are burying it out of sight. You are repressing it.
And all I&rsquo;m encouraging all of you to do is to stop doing this.
But the draw, you might say, the excitement of imagining that you have
the potential to be an independent creator along with God, standing
alongside God in your own right, that has you hooked.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This knowledge &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that it&rsquo;s impossible &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; plagued Freud&rsquo;s belief in his own thought system at every
turn because he was both an honest man and a healer. He was therefore
only partially insane, and was unable to relinquish the HOPE of release
even though he could not cope with it. The reason for this amount of
detail is because YOU are in the same position. You &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and this doesn&rsquo;t just apply to Helen and Bill but to
every one of you, every single one.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You were eternally fixated on God in your creation, and the pull of this
fixation is so strong that you will never overcome it. The reason is
perfectly clear. The fixation is on a level so high that it cannot BE
surmounted. You are ALWAYS being pulled back to your Creator because you
BELONG to Him.
</div>

Ooh! [Whispered] &ldquo;You belong to someone.&rdquo; [spoken much
louder] &ldquo;You&rsquo;re a kept man. You&rsquo;re a kept
woman.&rdquo; Insulting ain&rsquo;t it? Yes, or comforting.  It all
depends on how important it is to you to be a self-made man or self-made
woman.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Do you REALLY believe you can make a voice that can drown out His? Do
you REALLY believe that you can devise a thought system which can
separate you from His? Do you REALLY believe that you can plan for your
safety and joy better than He can?
</div>

And believe it or not, your answers to all these questions are
&ldquo;yes.&rdquo; At least they are still &ldquo;yes.&rdquo;

But now, let&rsquo;s not feel guilty about it. Let&rsquo;s not get
depressed about it. But let&rsquo;s recognize that you haven&rsquo;t
arrived yet. And if you haven&rsquo;t arrived yet, you&rsquo;re standing
on the threshold of discovery, and all you have to do is to bring some
curiosity, some genuine, playful curiosity into play.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You need be neither careful nor careless; you need merely cast your
cares upon Him because He careth for YOU. You ARE His care because He
loves you. His Voice reminds you always that all hope is yours BECAUSE
of His care. You CANNOT choose to escape His care because that is not
His Will, but you CAN choose to accept His care and use the infinite
power OF His care for all those He created BY it.
</div>

You see, here&rsquo;s where the reinterpretation is and here&rsquo;s
where the shift of fixation comes in. You&rsquo;re not going to get rid
of fixation. You&rsquo;re just going to abandon being fixated on
illusions. And you&rsquo;re going to become fixated on the Light, as it
were. You&rsquo;re going to become fixated on the avenue by means of
which your fulfillment comes to you. Not the avenue by means of which
you generate your fulfillment, but the avenue by means of which your
fulfillment comes to you because He cares for you.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There have been many healers who did not heal themselves. They have not
moved mountains by their faith because their faith was not whole.
</div>

Any of these in the group here? Every single one of you are healers who
may, or may not, have healed themselves, who haven&rsquo;t moved any
mountains. But these are the things &hellip; this is like the beginning
of a list of things to become curious about having the experience of,
that go outside the boundaries of your tiny, personal sense of yourself
that you&rsquo;ve honored so completely that you haven&rsquo;t allowed
for any other possibilities.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There have been many healers who did not heal themselves. They have not
moved mountains by their faith because their faith was not whole. Some
of them have healed the sick at times, but they have not raised the
dead.
</div>

Oh! There&rsquo;s another wonderful thing to add to the list. It&rsquo;s
one of the things, it&rsquo;s an experience that awaits every single one
of you. And you don&rsquo;t have to be special to have the experience.
Every single one of you is qualified, pre-qualified, truly
pre-qualified, and not a pre-qualification that will go through after
your credit is checked. You are fully pre-qualified.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Unless the healer heals HIMSELF he does NOT believe that there is no
order of difficulty in miracles. He has not learned that EVERY mind God
created is equally worthy of being healed BECAUSE GOD CREATED IT WHOLE.
You are merely asked to return to God the mind as HE created it.
</div>

Your mind as He created it.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
He asks you only for what He gave, knowing that this giving will heal
you. Sanity IS wholeness, and the sanity of your brothers IS yours.

Why should you listen to the endless insane calls which you think are
made upon you when you KNOW the Voice of God Himself is in you?
</div>

In other words, why, why would you listen to the calls of your Brothers
and Sisters who say, &ldquo;Behave yourself. You&rsquo;re getting
outside the box.  Behave yourself. That&rsquo;s not a part of the
agreed-upon definitions. You don&rsquo;t really believe you can be
healed, do you? You don&rsquo;t really believe that you&rsquo;re divine,
do you?&rdquo; Every means will be used to bring you back in line with
the mutually-agreed-upon definitions, including the ploy of guilt that
we were speaking of last week.

But, again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Why should you listen to the endless insane calls which you think are
made upon you when you KNOW the Voice of God Himself is in you?
</div>

See. Where are you going to fixate your attention? Where are you going
to obsess? Are you going to obsess on an illusion with your Brothers and
Sisters? Are you going to make their opinion about you &ldquo;god&rdquo;
to you? Or are you going to switch your fixation to God Whose Voice is
in you, Whose Voice is you? Are you going to begin to fixate on the
Place of Excellence in You that is the Excellent You That You Are and
embody That and let the chips fall where they may?

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
God commended His Spirit to you, and asks that you commend yours to Him.
He wills to keep it in perfect peace because you are of one mind and
Spirit with Him. Excluding yourself from the Atonement is the
ego&rsquo;s last-ditch defense of its OWN existence. It reflects both
the ego&rsquo;s need to separate, and your willingness to side with its
separateness. This willingness &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; to side with its separateness &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; means THAT YOU DO NOT WANT TO BE HEALED.
</div>

And that&rsquo;s all in capital letters.

Here&rsquo;s where it might seem to be a criticism of you. But what it
is, is a statement of the way the ego works, and that in order for the
ego&rsquo;s definitions to be effective, you must be willing to agree
with it. You must bring your willingness into the picture. So, does this
make you guilty? That&rsquo;s irrelevant. What it means is that in order
to have a different experience, all you have to do is redirect your
willingness.  What are you willing to become fixated upon? That which it
is your fundamental nature to be? Or that which is absolutely foreign to
you, is totally imaginative and therefore not substantially real, and
therefore constitutes an illusory result? Which one are you going to
make commitment to?

You didn&rsquo;t know you had made commitment to the latter because you
didn&rsquo;t know there was any alternative. You had forgotten it
because of your fixation. Now you&rsquo;re not unconscious of the other
option any longer. Now you have a choice. And now you can bring your
willingness and express it in a new direction that returns you to your
Sanity, wholizes you, breaks down the flimsy surface of the bubble that
has been separating that of you which is Divine on the inside of the
bubble with that of you which is Infinitely Present that is on the
outside of the bubble.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
But the time IS now. You have not been asked to work out the plan of
salvation yourselves because&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; as I told you before&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; the remedy is NOT of your making. God Himself gave you the
perfect correction for everything you have made which is NOT in accord
with His holy Will. I have made His plan perfectly explicit to
you&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and I&rsquo;m adding this: And will continue to make it
explicit as long as I need to.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and have also told you of your part in His plan, and how urgent
it is that you fulfill it. There is time for delay&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; there is time for delay &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; but there need not be. God weeps at the &ldquo;sacrifice&rdquo;
of His Children who believe they are lost to Him.
</div>

That&rsquo;s another way of saying, &ldquo;God cares.&rdquo; And like
any father or mother or anyone who truly cares about another, there is a
compassion that comes into play when the one cared for is suffering
needlessly. And there is an outpouring that comes forth because of
caring, to override and overwhelm the nonsense that the loved one is
suffering from. And it continues to pour forth until the suffering ends.

Now, you as you sit here may not feel as though you are really suffering
at the moment. And I am grateful that that is the case. But until you
are experiencing Pure Joy at being Conscious because you are
experiencing your inseparability from God, compassion, and Love and
Clarity designed to cut through your defenses and register with the
Divine You that&rsquo;s inside the bubble, comes forth from the Father
and from those of us in the Brotherhood Who Are Awake, and Sisterhood
Those of Us Who Are Awake, every one of your Guides, and most of all
that which is nothing more than your Right Mind, the Holy Spirit.

After all, it&rsquo;s important for you to know that if you&rsquo;re
going to shift your attention to God, that God and all Those Who Know
they are inseparable from God are reaching out to you, and have been
reaching out to you even before you knew that there was any alternative
to the current quote &ldquo;state of being&rdquo; unquote that
you&rsquo;re experiencing.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I have already told you that whenever you are not wholly joyous it is
because you have reacted with a lack of love to some Soul which God
created. Perceiving this as &ldquo;sin,&rdquo; you become defensive
because you EXPECT ATTACK. The decision to react in this way, however,
is YOURS, and can therefore be undone. It CANNOT be undone by repentance
in the usual sense, because this implies guilt. If you allow yourself to
feel guilty you will REINFORCE the error rather than allow it to be
undone FOR you.

Decisions CANNOT be difficult. This is obvious if you realize that you
must ALREADY have made a decision NOT to be wholly joyous if that is how
you feel. Therefore, the first step in the undoing is to recognize that
you ACTIVELY DECIDED WRONGLY&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; oh dear! Another accusation? Another thing to feel guilty for?
How bad you are? No.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Therefore, the first step in the undoing is to recognize that you
ACTIVELY DECIDED WRONGLY, but can AS ACTIVELY DECIDE OTHERWISE.
</div>

We&rsquo;ve talked about shifting operating systems, and now we could
talk about shifting fixations.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Be very firm with yourselves in this, and keep yourselves fully aware of
the fact that the undoing process, which does NOT come from you, is
nevertheless WITHIN you because God placed it there.
</div>

It&rsquo;s the Holy Spirit.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
YOUR part &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and here I am speaking to the Holy Spirit in you, but I&rsquo;m
also speaking to who you think you are.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
YOUR part is merely to return your thinking to the point at which the
error was made, and give it over to the Atonement in peace. Say to
yourselves the following as sincerely as you can, remembering that the
Holy Spirit &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that which is nothing more than your Right Mind.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; will respond fully to your slightest invitation:
</div>

Quote, this is how you shift fixations. This is how you open the door to
shifting operating systems.

Quote &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&ldquo;I must have decided wrongly because I am NOT at peace. I made the
decision myself, but I can also decide otherwise. I WILL to decide
otherwise because I WANT to be at peace. I do NOT feel guilty because
the Holy Spirit will undo all the consequences of my wrong decision IF I
WILL LET HIM. I WILL to let Him by allowing Him to decide for God for
me.&rdquo;
</div>

You see, who you think you are in your ignorance of the awareness of
What You Divinely Are is what you think is a decision against God on
your own behalf. It&rsquo;s a decision against God on behalf of your
capacity to successfully get a bill of divorcement from God and become
the very first Son or Daughter of God who has managed to mature into
independent Godhood status, and thereby having become the full-fledged
expression of God. I say &ldquo;full-fledged&rdquo; because the belief
is that a child is always to grow up and become an adult and break
allegiance with the parents, and be an adult like them in their own
right. And that&rsquo;s the means by which you justify the way you
behave in your families, as well as the way you approach, or shall I
say, leave God.

As you give your attention to that Place of Excellence in You and you
open up to It, and you decide to yield to It, and the bubble begins to
burst, what you&rsquo;re doing is letting the Holy Spirit, that which is
nothing more than your Right Mind, decide for God because It&rsquo;s
fixed on God and It makes the decision for you, because in the act of
yielding, you&rsquo;re not in full command and full awareness of Who You
Are. And so It makes the decision for God for you. And because you are
yielding to Its decision, you are blessed. And you are brought back.
This one who seems to have been experiencing an independent existence on
its own, it finds its true experience of Selfhood, of Being, infilling
you.

So we&rsquo;re talking about having a new fixation. Not a fixation on
yourself. Not a fixation on your visions and your imaginations, but a
fixation on God. And how have I suggested having a fixation on God? By
looking for God in everything you see and desiring to see What God Is
Meaning right there, as I&rsquo;ve said, in the flower, in your
Brothers&rsquo; and Sisters&rsquo; eyes. And then facilitate that
movement by disengaging from the use of criticism and guilt. At least
facilitate it by not engaging in that any longer.

So have two weeks for sure of embodying gratitude. Say &ldquo;Thank
you&rdquo; for the flowers because of what they must be even if
you&rsquo;re not seeing it.  Say &ldquo;Thank you&rdquo; for what they
hold for you. And let there be a curiosity at the same time and even if
you don&rsquo;t see it yet, say &ldquo;Thank you.&rdquo; Say
&ldquo;Thank you&rdquo; for your family, and say &ldquo;Thank you&rdquo;
for everything that&rsquo;s in your face, because What Each Thing
Divinely Is stands there as a learning device for you, a means of
remembering what&rsquo;s true. And whether you see it or not depends
upon what you&rsquo;re fixed on. That&rsquo;s all. And you know what?
You&rsquo;ll all get the hang of it. You&rsquo;ll all get the hang of
it.

I love you. And I&rsquo;ll be with you two weeks from now.

[^1]: Students commenting or asking a question.
[^2]: T5.8 The Eternal Fixation

