---
title: Dec 7, 2003
ref: "T6.1 The Message of the Crucifixion"
alink: "/acim/text/06/chap0601/"
---

Good afternoon. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

Before we go into the Text I have a couple of comments.

The first one is, it might seem that we&rsquo;re not spending much time
making what we&rsquo;re discussing relevant to your daily life. There is
a reason for this. You have ample opportunities during the week to
relate what we&rsquo;re talking about to your daily life. But it&rsquo;s
rather like getting a new computer or getting a new sewing machine. And
you say I want to get a computer to write a book with. I don&rsquo;t
want to work on an old typewriter. Or I want to get a sewing machine so
that I can make clothes. And you bring the computer home and you bring
the sewing machine home, not having had any experience on them before,
all enthused about writing the book or making the blouse or the shirt.
And you find that you have to sit down and with a computer you have to
learn how Windows® XP® works or you have to learn how the operating
system works before you can even open up Microsoft® Word® or any other
program where you can begin to write the book. Or you have to learn how
to insert the bobbin and you have to learn how to thread the machine and
you have to learn how to use the knee lift, and so on and so forth. All
of which seem to have nothing to do with the project that you got the
machine for, which was to make a garment.

So, we&rsquo;re going through the Course, which is at the bottom line
helping you to see that there is a different way of looking at things
than the way you have been used to. And what is being read has come
directly from One Who Knows The Truth, One Who Sees As The Father Sees
because he is not claiming a right to a mind of his own. And so the
perspective provided gives you new language and new ideas. And if you do
nothing more than just become familiar with the new language and the new
ideas, and you put them together and begin to live your life on the
basis of those new ideas, your life will improve. But, it won&rsquo;t be
improving because you yourself have made a connection with the Holy
Spirit, or with the Father, directly.

You can learn to use a sewing machine, and you can learn how to read
patterns, and you can learn how to assemble the fabric so that it ends
up looking like the garment you wanted, but all you&rsquo;re doing is
following a blueprint someone else has set forth for you. And you
can&rsquo;t say that you have come to an experiential place of expertise
that comes from an inner grasp of how and why things fit together the
way they fit.  And as a result, you will not have the freedom to alter
the pattern to make it fit even more specifically to you or to create a
brand-new garment.

And this is important. You&rsquo;re not here to become familiar with the
words in A Course In Miracles so that you can repeat them and so that
you can apply them in your daily life, even though doing that will cause
improvement. It&rsquo;s like being able to run your machine, follow the
pattern, and end up with a garment. At the bottom line, all you are
being is a copycat. All you are being is someone following a direction,
a direction that&rsquo;s there because someone else did listen. A
lesson, a pattern, that is there because someone else did understand how
things fit together, how things work in the construction of a garment
that will look good on you.

The purpose of the Course is first of all to provide you with new
language, and therefore new ideas that allow you to see that there is,
indeed, another way to look at everything. But the essential step is for
you to arrive at a point where you lean into the same place the Author
of the Course did, or the same place Helen Schucman did, where you
don&rsquo;t know anything on your own, and you don&rsquo;t know what is
going to come up next, and you open up, you become defenseless and you
let in the Father&rsquo;s Will. You let in the essential originality of
the State of Being That You Are or That Is You so that then what comes
out of your mouth is as helplessly original as what came out of
Helen&rsquo;s mouth. And so that you, when you&rsquo;re relating to your
Brother or Sister, speak because the words come, not because you figured
out what they ought to be.

Now, how many of you&mdash;you don&rsquo;t have to raise your
hands&mdash;but how many of you would dearly love to be a healer, to be
a Presence in the world that is healing? Recognizably healing. Well,
it&rsquo;s very simple. In order to be a healer, you have to be sure
that you&rsquo;re responding to the problem from a level other than the
problem arose from.

And you could say there are only two levels, apparently two levels. And
one is the level of you existing independent of God, perhaps created by
God, but set in an independent mode by God so that you, separate from
God, could begin to utilize and develop your God-given talents and
abilities. This separate sense of self is one that you&rsquo;ve created
out of imagination, as we&rsquo;ve already discussed, and it is one that
you have gotten other Brothers and Sisters [laughing] to join you in
believing in while you join them in believing in their independence. And
this level is called the human condition. It&rsquo;s also called the ego
frame of reference. And it&rsquo;s made up, as we&rsquo;ve discussed
before, of nothing more than mutually-agreed-upon definitions of the
Kingdom of Heaven that are different from what the Father has created
the Kingdom of Heaven to be.  That&rsquo;s one level.

That&rsquo;s the level of problems because that&rsquo;s the level
that&rsquo;s been built on a fundamental perception of yourself that is
untrue. And that fundamental perception of yourself that is untrue is
that you exist independent from your Source. Whether your Source created
you and set you free to be independent, or whether you just chose to
believe it, it doesn&rsquo;t matter. The point is that you have accepted
this as your premise.

The other level is the level of what we&rsquo;ve called the Other
Operating System, the Holy Spirit, which is nothing more than your Right
Mind, and which is devoted to one thing only: the Father, or Its Source,
your Source, That Which Is Being You, period.

Now, if you want to be a healer and you know that you can&rsquo;t heal a
problem from the level of the problem, it&rsquo;s obvious then that the
only way to be a healer is to move out of the level of
mutually-agreed-upon definitions, to move out of the ego frame of
reference. And to lean into the Holy Spirit in you, which is nothing
more than your Right Mind, so that you might gather from your Right Mind
the Father&rsquo;s Perspective, the True Perspective, because from there
that which will resolve the problem, or the sickness, or the disease, or
the trauma, or whatever the trouble might be, that the solution to that
can only come from looking at it with your Source, looking at it with
the Father.

Now, all of this is laying a groundwork for what we&rsquo;re going to be
reading.

Something which escapes everyone&rsquo;s attention is the fact that
everything you see is affected by the way you are defining yourself to
yourself.  Whatever your definition of yourself is causes you to see
everything else in the shadow of that definition, if I may put it that
way. You look at another, or you look at some thing, and you observe it
and you observe the way it behaves, and you come to conclusions about it
as though those conclusions relate only to the thing you were observing.
And you do not realize that the definition of yourself that you are
embracing is affecting the definition you&rsquo;re giving to everything
else.

Put simply, because you are attempting to exist and be conscious of life
from an independent vantage point, independent of your Source, you feel
separate, alone, lost, and insecure or afraid. Now, it&rsquo;s an
uncomfortable feeling, so you develop ways to be that cover it up. You
develop a way to be with bravado, or with force, or with assertiveness,
so that others will not be aware that you are basically afraid.

Then, another comes up and behaves in a way that is threatening to you.
Is it because they&rsquo;re really being threatening? Or is it because
the way they&rsquo;re behaving is causing you to connect with your own
deep fear? And there is the fear that they will uncover the front, they
will uncover the fear that&rsquo;s behind the front of assuredness that
you&rsquo;re putting forth.

Now, they may just be being enthusiastic. They may just be expressing a
freedom that you&rsquo;re not letting yourself have. And that you will
not let yourself have. You cannot conceive of letting yourself have it.
And you know that if you continue to be around this person expressing
this freedom that you won&rsquo;t let yourself have, this confidence
that you won&rsquo;t let yourself feel, that it will become obvious to
them, you won&rsquo;t be able to keep it covered up. And so your quote
&ldquo;weakness&rdquo; unquote will become obvious to them, which is the
last thing you want, and so you experience their behavior as
threatening. You see?

Let&rsquo;s say that you don&rsquo;t have a large income. And
let&rsquo;s say you have defined your financial state as one of poverty.
You&rsquo;re poor. And you have decided that you are poor because
there&rsquo;s something you lack within your nature or character.
It&rsquo;s a flaw and the poverty is evidence of this flaw in you. And
somebody else comes around and has abundance, and speaks about this or
that or the other thing that they have purchased and that they now own,
and how good they feel about it. And you hear that as insensitive on
their part. You see them as uncaring, and thoughtless, and unkind. And
that isn&rsquo;t what they&rsquo;re being at all. But the way you
experience them is colored by the way you are defining yourself.

Now this is very important. You must not forget that the determinations
you make about everything you see and experience in the world are
absolutely governed by the definitions you are giving to yourself. And
as a result, your responses to them will not be responses to them, they
will be responses or reactions to your feelings of inadequacy and
incapacity and fear and vulnerability. And that means no communication
will occur at all because you&rsquo;re responding to a picture of them
that you have in your mind that has been created by what? The very
definitions that you have given yourself. Any response you give from
that place will be unable to heal anything at all. The only way healing
can be brought into any situation is when you have been able to get free
of your very own definition of yourself so that you might be available
to the Experience of What You Really Are.

Now, listen carefully. It might sound as though what I&rsquo;ve just
said means that no matter how someone else might be behaving, it&rsquo;s
perfectly all right and the problematic nature of it is due entirely to
the way you are looking at everything based upon your current definition
of yourself. And that would be wrong because anyone else you come in
contact with is not awake either. And so they are engaged in exactly the
same activity you are. And everything they see is absolutely governed by
the definitions they are embracing about themselves. And so just as your
picture of them is your picture projected on them, their picture of you
is their picture of you projected on you. A picture governed by the
definitions they are using to define themselves, and therefore
everything that they are doing is not all right.

The key is, how do any of you get free of the dilemma of trying to deal
with the problem from the level of the problem? You get free of it by
realizing that there&rsquo;s another Operating System and choosing to be
from there. Because from there your responses can correct any projection
they are engaged in. And it will keep you from projecting any false
perceptions you are projecting upon them, because you will be free of
them. And that is what will open the door up for correction of all
projection, and will allow you to speak in a way that will help another
who is projecting to become free of that.

You cannot correct the problem from the level of the problem. You cannot
correct the problems of human existence from the level of human
existence, or from the level of the human condition. And the level of
the human condition is not something out there in the world. The level
of the human condition is nothing more and nothing less than the
mutually-agreed-upon definitions that you are all engaged in agreeing
upon, and reinforcing, and redefining, all as a means of neglecting to
acknowledge your Source and connect with It once again.

Okay.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Chapter 6
</div>

And I am reading from the transcript as finished by Bill Thetford. In it
this chapter is entitled:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*Attack and Fear*
</div>

In the first and second edition of the Course, it is entitled:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*The Lessons of Love*

The relationship of anger to attack is obvious, but the inevitable
association of anger and FEAR is not always so clear.
</div>

Well we&rsquo;ve discussed that when you are in a state of fear which
you must keep covered up so no one else will know it and take advantage
of you, that very state of mind causes behavior of others that may not
be any form of attack at all to be perceived as a call for defense. In
other words, to be perceived as an attack because it might overwhelm
you. It might uncover the fact that you&rsquo;re not as confident as you
present yourself to be. It might uncover the fact that you are
experiencing fear. And so if you&rsquo;re constantly confronted with the
threat of your fearful state being uncovered, you will practice the
defense called anger. It&rsquo;s very simple. You will do whatever you
can to get this other one to stop. And anger is a forceful way of
expression that can often effectively alter another&rsquo;s behavior.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Anger ALWAYS involves PROJECTION OF SEPARATION, which must ultimately be
accepted as entirely one&rsquo;s own responsibility.
</div>

You see, the only reason you experience fear is because you&rsquo;ve
chosen to look at everything on your own. You&rsquo;ve chosen to be
separate. You&rsquo;ve chosen and then forgotten that you actually have
a Source that you are inseparably connected to. So, everything that
follows is going to be affected by and colored by your &hellip; by the
fear that is inseparable from your choosing to be autonomous. It&rsquo;s
that simple. That&rsquo;s called projection of separation. And this
separation must ultimately be accepted as entirely one&rsquo;s own
responsibility. It can&rsquo;t be blamed on anyone else, because no one
else but you decided to say, &ldquo;Father, I&rsquo;d rather see it my
way.&rdquo; You see?

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Anger cannot occur unless you believe that you have been attacked; that
your attack was justified; and that YOU are in no way responsible.
</div>

In other words, anger cannot occur unless you believe that you have been
attacked. Okay so far. That your attack in return, which you call a
defense, was justified, and that you are in no way responsible for the
fact that any of that happened at all. And yet you are absolutely
participating in it because you have been looking at your attacker
through your poor self-definition.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Can I ask a question?
</div>

Not yet.

You say, &ldquo;The other one is responsible, the other one behaved
poorly. He behaved poorly and attacked me for no reason.&rdquo; Well
whether he attacked you for no reason or a good reason, the only reason
you see attack and feel vulnerable is because you&rsquo;re looking at
his behavior through your own poor self-definition. You are seeing his
behavior in light of your innate vulnerability; the fact that you are
delicate, that you are not strong. That as a result, you are not
confident and you are fearful.

And why? Why is this the way you see yourself? Because you have gotten a
bill of divorcement from your Father and lost your Identity. You have
forgotten Who You Are, and that&rsquo;s why you are afraid. And
it&rsquo;s because you&rsquo;re afraid and feel vulnerable that you can
determine that some movement or activity out there in your world is a
threat to you. And that&rsquo;s what causing the mistake in your
perception. That&rsquo;s what needs to be corrected.

The behavior of another out there may be inappropriate, but the fact
that you see it as a threat and feel vulnerable to it, is because you
believe the definition you&rsquo;ve given yourself. That being that you
exist independently as an independent authorizer, as something existing
on its own in its own right. And, as we&rsquo;ve said before, the moment
you&rsquo;ve disowned your Father, you&rsquo;ve lost your Identity and
everything that follows will be an illusion, will be a total
misperception on your part.

The answer lies in remembering Who You Are so that your response to
someone else&rsquo;s behavior that is an expression of their ignorance,
will arise not out of any feeling of threat or vulnerability in
yourself, but out of compassion and understanding of What Is True about
the Brother who is behaving poorly, who is expressing his own
projections of his own fear that he doesn&rsquo;t want anybody to see.

The only way for you to be able to bring correction to this situation is
when you are looking at your Brother from the Place of Excellence in
You, your connectedness with your Source, so that your response is not a
reaction that says to your Brother, &ldquo;You&rsquo;re getting out of
line. You are not behaving according to the mutually-agreed-upon
definitions. You are at fault. You should feel sorry. You should feel
vulnerable. You should feel bad. Get back in the box. Get back into the
crab barrel. Begin to act like a proper ego. Get in line with the
mutually-agreed-upon definitions so that you&rsquo;re not causing so
much distress to the rest of us vulnerable ones.&rdquo;

You see? It says to that one, &ldquo;Your inappropriate behavior based
upon your vulnerability, your feeling of vulnerability, is too
threatening to my feeling of vulnerability but I&rsquo;m not going to
let you know that. I&rsquo;m going to stand up here and I&rsquo;m going
to speak with some force and some authority and not let you know that
I&rsquo;m afraid. But I am going to put you in your place through the
use of guilt and the threat of uncovering the fear you&rsquo;re
experiencing. But I won&rsquo;t uncover that fear if you will behave
better, if you will stop doing this thing that&rsquo;s just plain old
wrong.&rdquo; And what you mean is, it just plain old uncovers the fear
that you&rsquo;re experiencing that you don&rsquo;t want to have
exposed. You see?

Repeating &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Anger cannot occur unless you believe that you have been attacked; that
your attack &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; in return &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; was justified; and that YOU are in no way responsible. Given
these three wholly irrational premises, the equally irrational
conclusion that a brother is WORTHY of attack rather than of love
follows. What can be expected from insane premises except an insane
conclusion?

The way to undo an insane conclusion is to consider the sanity of the
premises on which it rests. You cannot BE attacked; . .
</div>

&hellip; truly as the divine one that you Are, you cannot be attacked.
You&rsquo;re not only not available for attack, you&rsquo;re not in a
context where attack can happen. And because you are invulnerable
because of what you divinely Are, any attempt of attack that might be
directed at you would be to you nonsensical. You wouldn&rsquo;t see it
as threatening in any way. It might even be humorous to you. But because
you see that it&rsquo;s not attack but a call for Love, an expression of
distress on the part of the one attempting to attack you, then
you&rsquo;re in a position to respond compassionately to that hurt in
your Brother, or Sister, addressing it and healing it so that that one
relaxes, comes into his natural State of Peace, and finds no
justification for engaging in this nonsense of attack.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You cannot BE attacked; attack HAS no justification; and you ARE
responsible for what you believe. You have been asked to take me as your
model for learning, since an extreme example is a particularly helpful
learning device.
</div>

Listen to this &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Everyone teaches, and teaches all the time. This is a responsibility
which he inevitably assumes the moment he accepts any premise at all,
and no-one can organize his life without ANY thought system. Once he has
developed a thought system of any kind, he lives by it AND TEACHES IT.
</div>

So, your fundamental thought system is your definition of yourself. Your
fundamental thought system is your definition of yourself. And however
you perceive yourself to be, you will project. Anyone who operates
outside of your definition of yourself, you will perceive to be either a
threat or a potential threat because their presence will always throw
you off-balance. It will always be upsetting to the definition of
yourself that you have. And so by projecting it, you teach it.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have been chosen to teach the Atonement precisely because you have
been extreme examples of allegiance to your thought systems, and
therefore have developed the CAPACITY for allegiance.
</div>

Now it could be argued that this statement was being made specifically
to Helen and Bill, but this applies to every single one of you. There
isn&rsquo;t anyone, whether they&rsquo;ve read the Course or not,
whether they have embarked on a spiritual path or not, there is no one
who does not have a thought system that they give complete allegiance
to. And the thought system that everyone is giving their complete
allegiance to is their definition of themselves. And you give complete
allegiance to it because you believe that it&rsquo;s your means of
self-protection. And you think you need self-protection. Why? Because
you got this bill of divorcement from your Father and lost your
Identity! At least you imagine that you got a bill of divorcement, and
you are acting as though you succeeded at being divorced and that you
have no Father and you are an individuality in your own right.

Now, you may think it&rsquo;s strange to say that somewhere along the
line you got a bill of divorcement from your Father, especially if you
aren&rsquo;t a Christian, especially if you don&rsquo;t believe in God.
But if you think you&rsquo;re an independent thinker, you&rsquo;re
wrong. And all of you do think that you&rsquo;re an independent thinker.
You think that you&rsquo;re an independent individuality. You think
everyone, you think the world is full of independent individualities;
each unique creations of God but existing in their own right to work out
their own salvation, independent of God, regardless of God.

Now, the fact is that you didn&rsquo;t create yourselves and
you&rsquo;re not the Source of your Existence, and therefore you do have
a Source, and therefore you&rsquo;re not independent. And therefore,
you&rsquo;re not here on your own, and the way you are defining yourself
is wrong. It&rsquo;s a mistake. And everything built on that mistake
will be an embellishment of that mistake. And if all of you are behaving
on the basis of a mistake, then you have 10 billion mistakes in process,
and you are all cooperating with each other and melding those mistakes
into a humungous ball of confusion. And then you all think that
you&rsquo;ve got to work together to bring order to this confusion,
because you know what? Somewhere in you, you remember that order is
appropriate and order is desirable. Of course, the order that
you&rsquo;re remembering is the Divine Order of Being.  But you are
wanting to try to bring it back into existence in the context of a
fundamental, uncorrected mistake about Who You Are. Is this making
sense?

Now we&rsquo;re learning about the way it works before we apply it in
daily life. You must understand this because it&rsquo;s the basis for
correcting the problem where the problem lies, not in a problem that is
a result of the basic problem, or a tenth generation problem that
stemmed from the basic problem.

Now because all of you have learned great allegiance to your thought
system, and I&rsquo;m continuing.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have been chosen to teach the Atonement…
</div>

Isn&rsquo;t that something? Because you&rsquo;re all so excellent at
being mistaken, you are chosen to teach the Atonement. And yet it makes
perfect sense, because, you see, the Truth is that you&rsquo;re all the
Christ behaving as though you&rsquo;re not and believing your behavior.
And you are using your Divine Capacity to be devoted to something in an
idiotic way. And because of that, shall I say, because you have become
so good at it, &lsquo;cause in the beginning you&hellip; you&hellip; How
can I say it? Your attempts to be idiotic were so awkward because they
were so unnatural to you that the results were amazingly awful.

And you have refined the process and you have become better at it, and
your devotion to it has had its beneficial effect, I will put it that
way, to the point where you are once again clear enough in your ability
to be devoted that you can be chosen to teach the Atonement.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have been chosen to teach the Atonement precisely because you have
been extreme examples of allegiance to your thought systems, and
therefore have developed the CAPACITY for allegiance. It has indeed been
misplaced, but it IS a form of faith, which you yourselves have been
willing to redirect.
</div>

You have been willing to redirect it in that you find yourself reading
the Course. You have been willing to redirect it in your search for a
spiritual path. You have been willing to redirect it by conceiving of
the possibility that there is another way to look at everything.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You cannot doubt the strength of your devotion, when you consider how
faithfully you have observed it. It was quite evident that you had
already developed the ability to follow a better model, if you could
accept it.
</div>

The next section is entitled:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
*The Message of the Crucifixion*

For teaching purposes, let us consider the crucifixion again. We have
not dwelt on it before, because of its fearful connotations. The only
emphasis we laid upon it was that it was NOT a form of punishment.
Nothing, however, can be really explained in negative terms only. There
is a positive interpretation of the crucifixion which is wholly devoid
of fear, and therefore wholly benign in what it teaches&hellip;
</div>

You hear that? Whatever is wholly devoid of fear is wholly benign in
what it teaches.

Remember that you&rsquo;re always teaching. And what you have been
teaching for lifetimes is the definition of yourself, which is that
you&rsquo;re an independent, authoritative, self-authorized presence
with no Source other than the presence that you are. That&rsquo;s what
you&rsquo;ve been teaching.  That&rsquo;s what you&rsquo;ve been
cramming down everyone&rsquo;s throats and that&rsquo;s what everyone
else has been cramming down your throats. And you have been mutually
reinforcing that illusion and causing everything else that follows to be
a misperception of what&rsquo;s Real.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is a positive interpretation of the crucifixion which is wholly
devoid of fear, and therefore wholly benign in what it teaches, if it is
properly understood. The crucifixion is nothing more than an extreme
example. Its value, like the value of any teaching device, lies solely
in the kind of learning it facilitates. It can be, and has been,
misunderstood. This is only because the fearful are apt to perceive
fearfully.

I have already told you that you can always call on me to share my
decision and thus MAKE IT STRONGER. I also told you that the crucifixion
was the last foolish journey that the Sonship need take, and that it
should mean RELEASE from fear to anyone who understands it. While we
emphasized only the resurrection before, the purpose of the crucifixion
and how it actually LED to the resurrection was not clarified at that
time. Nevertheless, it has a definite contribution to make to your own
lives, and if you will consider it WITHOUT fear, it will help you
understand your own role as teachers.
</div>

Now some of you might not be looking at the crucifixion with fear. But
many of you have been educated to believe that you all played a part in
the crucifixion, and that you all are in some respect guilty, even if
it&rsquo;s only guilty by association with all the other sinners in the
world going right back to the time where the crucifixion occurred. And
that&rsquo;s one reason this sentence is so important.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Nevertheless, it has a definite contribution to make to your own lives,
and if you will consider it WITHOUT fear, it will help you understand
your own role as teachers.

You have reacted for years AS IF you were being crucified. This is a
marked tendency of the separated ones, who always refuse to consider
what they have done TO THEMSELVES.
</div>

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You have reacted for years AS IF you were being crucified.
</div>

You know, like the Jewish mother, &ldquo;You&rsquo;ll be the death of me
yet!&rdquo; You look at your neighbors, your family, your friends, your
bosses, and you see them as putting you on the rack, always keeping you
at a disadvantage. You look at your politicians. You look at the state
of life itself and see it as a constant threat, a constant being put on
the rack, a constant being put up on the cross and no relief, no relief,
no relief.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This is a marked tendency of the separated ones, who always refuse to
consider what they have done TO THEMSELVES.
</div>

And so you say, &ldquo;I didn&rsquo;t do anything to myself.&rdquo; Yes.
You got a bill of divorcement from your Father. You forgot your Identity
in the pleasure of trying to establish it for yourself made-up out of
your own ideas of what you would like, as opposed to what anyone else
would like. Yes, you did it to yourselves by saying, &ldquo;I am an
independent being.&rdquo; And as long as you believe that, and as long
as you are convinced of it, and as long as you are committed to it, you
are today doing this to yourself. You see?

No one else is doing it to you. And that&rsquo;s the one fundamental,
I&rsquo;m going to say, weak link in this whole thing called the human
condition.  It&rsquo;s the one weak link which, if you will address it
and abandon it entirely, it&rsquo;s the one thing that will cause you to
spontaneously wake up, instead of trying to fix your Brothers and fix
everyone else before you&rsquo;ve gotten rid of that one fundamental
mistake that causes anything that follows to be mistaken also.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Projection &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; which means saying, &ldquo;The devil made me do it! She made me
do it!  He made me do it!&rdquo; instead of recognizing, &ldquo;Wait a
minute! I have a fundamental mistake in my premise. I better take care
of that first before I determine what someone else is or isn&rsquo;t
doing. I&rsquo;ve got to correct that fundamental mistake by inviting
Someone else in, the Father, that Place of Excellence in me that is the
Holy Spirit which is devoted to the Father, or That in Me Which Is Real
which is forever devoted to the clear Experience of the Truth about All
Of Reality.&rdquo;

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Projection means anger, anger fosters assault, and assault promotes
fear. The real meaning of the crucifixion lies in the APPARENT intensity
of the assault of some of the Sons of God upon another.
</div>

The apparent intensity. And I would add: the apparent assault.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
This, of course, is impossible, and must be fully understood AS an
impossibility. In fact, unless it IS fully understood as only that, I
cannot serve as a real model for learning.
</div>

Your invulnerability will never become apparent to you as long as
you&rsquo;re playing in the field of mutually-agreed-upon definitions
that all of you together have made up as a substitute for the direct
Experience of Truth.

As long as you choose not to have a direct experience of your
invulnerability, because you would rather have this farce of an
experience of independence and the thrill that comes with it, the fear
that comes with it, you will not be able to fathom or experience the
fact that you&rsquo;re invulnerable and that you are incapable of being
actually threatened. As a result, you will not be able to join me in
teaching this Truth. You will not be in a position to join in teaching
the Atonement. And you will not be an agent for change or a healer.

And let&rsquo;s just touch on a little thing here. All of you must
become healers. That&rsquo;s part of the unavoidable process of coming
Home, of Awakening. And we&rsquo;ve discussed it in other words before.
You become a healer by having an object of your affection. You see? And
you have an object of your affection because that&rsquo;s the way you
break the isolation.  That&rsquo;s the way you break your aloneness. And
that&rsquo;s the way you break the one thing that seems to make fear be
reasonable in your logic. Break the aloneness, and fear will become
impossible.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Assault can ultimately be made ONLY on the body. There is little doubt
that one BODY can assault another, and can even destroy it. Yet if
destruction ITSELF is impossible, then anything that is destructible
cannot be REAL.
</div>

And here we are again. Your body is the Visibility and Tangibility of
your Individuality, and your Individuality is derived from God now, now,
now, now, forever.

And the fact is that if you seemed to be killed at this instant, you
would find in the very next instant that you still existed and you still
were identified visibly and tangibly. And you would find that that which
identified you was not affected by the apparent killing.

Now the point is to make this shift to the awareness of the
impossibility of the destructibility of you in any way, shape, or form,
without having to be killed to find out. To make this shift now by
letting there be a sudden shift of perception. Which is what? What is a
sudden shift of perception?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
A miracle.
</div>

A miracle. Yes.

Again. Yet if destruction itself is impossible, its destruction…

(PAUL: I&rsquo;m sorry.)

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet if destruction ITSELF is impossible, then anything that is
destructible cannot be REAL.
</div>

Well, let&rsquo;s understand that if you seem to be killed right now and
there&rsquo;s a body lying here that must be buried, it doesn&rsquo;t
mean that your body wasn&rsquo;t Real. But what it means is that the
definition everybody had of you that&rsquo;s still lingering in their
mind has to be dealt with, while you unaffected whatsoever in terms of
your Eternal And Uninterruptible Being are continuing to wake up with
all your parts present, accounted for, and available to express God.

Now the point is, let&rsquo;s let them be present, available, accounted
for to express God now by not defining your body as anything other than
the Visibility and Tangibility of your Individuality which is God
expressed.  And let&rsquo;s not claim a mind other than the Holy Spirit,
that which is nothing more than your right Mind which is devoted to the
Father&rsquo;s Will, which is devoted to the absolutely flawless
Experience of Creation, of Being The Movement of Creation.

Again.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Yet if destruction ITSELF is impossible, then anything that is
destructible cannot be REAL. Therefore, its destruction does NOT justify
anger.
</div>

Your ego rears its ugly head and screams, &ldquo;Foul play!&rdquo;
&ldquo;It does justify anger!&rdquo; your ego says.

I&rsquo;m sorry but you can&rsquo;t solve the problem from the level of
the problem.  And anger is one of the means you use to try to solve a
problem from the level of the problem.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
To the extent to which you believe that it DOES&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; justify anger &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you must be accepting false premises AND TEACHING THEM TO
OTHERS.
</div>

Because you&rsquo;re teaching. You&rsquo;re always teaching.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The message which the crucifixion was intended to teach was that it is
not necessary to perceive ANY form of assault in persecution because you
cannot BE persecuted. If you respond with anger you must be equating
yourself with the destructible, and are therefore regarding yourself
insanely.
</div>

You see we&rsquo;re holding to the line right through this. If you are
insisting upon seeing yourself as an independent self-existent entity,
you have divorced yourself in your mind from your Source, which causes
you to experience a loss of Identity. In the presence, you might say, or
in the absence of an experience of Identity, you create one out of whole
cloth for yourself. This identity, which you have created, is purely
fallacious, unreal. And everything that follows from whatever definition
you give yourself is equally illusory, and it causes the Kingdom of
Heaven, any part of the Kingdom of Heaven or Creation that you look at,
to be seen falsely. And you are all subject to the devotion that you
bring to this definition of yourself.

This is why the statement, &ldquo;There is another way to look at
this,&rdquo; is so pertinent, so essential. Because it&rsquo;s on the
basis of the meaning of that sentence that you can bring yourself to
withdraw your devotion to your current definition of yourself and be
less defended against the influx of inspiration, to be less defended
against those of the Brotherhood who stand with you constantly, waiting
for the barest glimmer of consciousness, you might say, where your
attention is being able to wander outside of your commitment to your
definition and be available to recognize the Presence of One of Us. And
perhaps hear Us and thus provide the Conscious Experience of a link that
you had forgotten that you had, an actual State of Brotherhood that you
have forgotten that you were a part of.

The crucifixion did not destroy me, which means that the idea that all
of you play with in your mind that there is such a thing as crucifixion
is false. And if you will stand back far enough to see the contrast of
the crucifixion and the resurrection, and the fact that it states that
crucifixion didn&rsquo;t succeed, and that it didn&rsquo;t succeed
because it&rsquo;s an illusion. And that therefore, your existence is
not only available after a crucifixion, it&rsquo;s present before a
crucifixion and it&rsquo;s present during a crucifixion, and therefore a
crucifixion is nothing but a distraction from something that has been
uninterrupted and inviolable. And that&rsquo;s the lesson of the
crucifixion. The crucifixion demonstrated that crucifixion is
impossible. And therefore, it&rsquo;s impossible for you.

And what is this uninterruptible Continuity of the Conscious Experience
of Being going on behind an apparent crucifixion? It&rsquo;s the
Presence of the Christ which does know Its Christhood before, during,
and after a crucifixion.

So let&rsquo;s not bother to endure more crucifixion. It&rsquo;s not
necessary.  We&rsquo;re laying a wonderful groundwork here for release.

And I want to finish with one thing as you go into the next week. To be
willing to abandon the self-definitions that you have created for
yourself. In abandoning those definitions so that you don&rsquo;t see
your Brother threatening you, whether he thinks he&rsquo;s threatening
you or not.

This does not exonerate your Brother from projecting on you his own
definitions of self that are ones of inadequacy, incompetency,
loneliness, fear, and the great need for defense. And whatever of those
self-definitions your Brother chooses to project on you still stand
there calling for correction, education through Love and perseverance
and steadfastness for the Truth of them, no matter how much they try to
argue on behalf of the sense of inadequacy which they mightily defend
and do not want to let go of.

When you see with the Father, when you see with me, you will not look at
a Brother projecting his fears and say, &ldquo;Nothing is going on there
that needs correction.&rdquo; But you know what? You will not be
reactive to the awkward and unloving expressions of fear that your
Brother is projecting toward you. And as a result, you won&rsquo;t fall
back into the habit of reacting from within the level of the problem,
and thereby teaching the problem, reinforcing the problem further.

You will respond with Clarity and with Love that is indeed demanding of
your Brother to look again because there is a Place in him, a Place of
Excellence, an Altar, his Right Mind, that is a far more satisfying
experience than the one he&rsquo;s currently suffering in. Now
that&rsquo;s as close as I&rsquo;m going to get at this time to a
practical application of what we&rsquo;ve been talking about. But that
alone is significant.

I love you all, and I look forward to being with you next week.

[^1]: T6.1 The Message of the Crucifixion
[^2]: Students commenting or asking a question.

