---
title: Dec 14, 2003
ref: "T6.1 The Message of the Crucifixion"
alink: "/acim/text/06/chap0601/"
---

Good afternoon. And welcome to everyone who is joining us on the
Internet.

There is a habit that all of you have been engaged in, we&rsquo;ll say
since the beginning of your lifetime here, and that habit is to believe
that you&rsquo;re a human being. That&rsquo;s part of your fundamental
definition of yourself. And it&rsquo;s that fundamental premise that
we&rsquo;re in the process of breaking down, annihilating. It colors
every thought that follows that you have. As a result you begin a
spiritual quest and you see yourself as a human being somehow improving
himself or herself. Somehow finding the means to grow beyond being a
human being, a physical presence, the product of a sperm and an egg.

And indeed, we&rsquo;ve been meeting for a year and a half and reading
from the Course and breaking down that fundamental idea. And yet,
because it has been the premise of your sense of yourself and therefore
of your life, you still see yourselves in many ways as human beings
trying to overcome the human condition. And there is a tendency to use
the Course as a means to overcome this human condition, when what the
Course is teaching and what I have been teaching, is that you were never
in a human condition because you were never a human being. You have from
the beginning been nothing more and nothing less than the Presence of
God expressing What God Is Being right where you are.

I&rsquo;ve shared a statement before that you need to be reminded of. It
is this: You are neither behind the Point of Perfection nor advancing
toward it, you are at that Point and must understand yourself there
from. In other words, the premise of your thoughts, the premise of your
sense of yourself must be that of one who is at the Point of Perfection,
who must understand himself or herself from there.

The practice is to not slip into the old framework, but to consciously
and conscientiously bring your attention back, as you go through the
day, to the fact that because you are the Presence of God, you are at
the Point of Perfection and you must conceive of yourself from there.
What does that mean? It means that when suggestions come to your mind
that you need to do something to protect yourself, when the suggestion
is, &ldquo;Get prepared for winter colds,&rdquo; that you don&rsquo;t
say, &ldquo;Oh, yes. Time to prepare for winter colds.&rdquo; You say,
&ldquo;Oh, how ridiculous!&rdquo; You say, &ldquo;That statement
doesn&rsquo;t apply to me, and it doesn&rsquo;t apply to any of my
Brothers and Sisters. I refuse to join in that definition and add to the
mutuality of the agreement that indeed I&rsquo;m a body, I&rsquo;m a
human being, and I am subject to this illness and that illness, and
therefore because that&rsquo;s the case, I really had better defend
myself against winter colds, or whatever it might be.

When someone coughs beside you and you know that it&rsquo;s not just
phlegm in their throat but it seems to be a physical problem, a cold or
a sore throat or whatever, your first response needs to be: That
isn&rsquo;t true about them. I don&rsquo;t buy that as being the Truth
about them. And because it&rsquo;s not the Truth about them, I
don&rsquo;t have to protect myself against her or his belief that
she&rsquo;s ill or he&rsquo;s ill. I don&rsquo;t have to become
reactive. I don&rsquo;t have to wonder why she didn&rsquo;t cover her
mouth when she coughed. I don&rsquo;t have to wonder why he came to work
that day when he had the potential to expose so many to a problem. You
see? You see how easily you can move back into a sense of being a human
being who is always vulnerable to something, and therefore had better be
on the alert to guard himself or herself against the threats of
existence.

As we&rsquo;ve been going through the Course, you all should have been
finding a new sense of yourself developing in which the suggestion of
vulnerability finds no lodging place in your mind, so that you stop
being on the defense, so that you stop practicing defense. So that you
stop being guarded against your world, your neighbor, your friend, your
fellow employee, and what problems they might bring to you because you
are vulnerable and you are subject to this, that and the other thing. It
doesn&rsquo;t really matter what it is. What matters is whether or not
you&rsquo;re buying into the idea that you&rsquo;re vulnerable.

&ldquo;Well, I&rsquo;d better strengthen my immune system.&rdquo; Listen
to me! You are immune because of What You Are. And that better be the
first thing that flashes through your mind before you say, &ldquo;Oh! I
better strengthen my immune system.&rdquo; Because once you slip past
the instant acknowledge of your immunity because God can&rsquo;t be
subject to anything unlike God, the minute you slip past the
acknowledgement of your immunity, you have slipped into the
mutually-agreed-upon definitions of yourself, and you will seem to be
subject to that agreement. And you will govern yourself accordingly, and
you will tighten up, and you will begin to protect yourself,
and you will begin to use your body in ways that oppose its Intent to
identify you perfectly. And so a struggle begins within you. Your
insistence that you are vulnerable and must protect yourself fighting
against your body intending to identify you perfectly because it has
nothing else to do.

And this tension, if you will, that you, not your body, are introducing
into the picture, will begin to show up in your experience, and
you&rsquo;ll say, &ldquo;You see, I told you so.&rdquo; All because of
what? Because you forgot What You Were and you forgot that because of
What You Are, you are immune. Not strengthened against something so
completely that it can&rsquo;t get you, but you are unavailable to
seeming to have an experience of an illusion, of something that God
didn&rsquo;t create.

I&rsquo;ve talked before about the way the ego works. The ego is not a
presence. It&rsquo;s an idea that all of you have made-up. But it
isn&rsquo;t a presence. It has no authority. It has no capacity to
initiate anything.  And so how does the ego work? The ego works, like a
hypnotist, through what?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Suggestion. [^1]
</div>

Suggestion. Yes.

It suggests that you have been exposed to the flu. You&rsquo;d better
become afraid. You&rsquo;d better protect yourself. The idea wisps into
your mind, &ldquo;Something has just occurred here that has put you in
danger.&rdquo; That is a suggestion.

You don&rsquo;t have to accept the suggestions. And as I&rsquo;ve said
before, when you&rsquo;re watching the commercials on TV, all they are,
are suggestions.  They suggest to you to buy. They suggest to you to be
afraid. They suggest to you that your security lies in medicine, or hair
restorer, or money, or whatever. You don&rsquo;t have to buy into the
suggestion. You don&rsquo;t have to join in with and substantiate a
mutually-agreed-upon definition.  And if you withdraw your agreement, if
all of you begin to withdraw your agreements, the mutually-agreed-upon
definition fades, together with their seeming effects.

You are right now God appearing. Nothing more and nothing less.
That&rsquo;s the bottom line premise of your Being, of your existing.

Because your lives are made up of nothing more than mutually-agreed-upon
definitions at the present time for the most part, then you are faced
with the necessity of being alert to recognize when these definitions
present themselves in your mind for you to agree with and thereby
confirm. Why? So that you can use that opportunity to remember the Truth
and move back to the Real fundamental premise of your existence, which
is that you are neither behind the Point of Perfection nor advancing
toward It, you are at that Point and you must understand yourself there
from. You must be willing to experience yourself there from.

You might say that you must be willing to teleport from your
mutually-agreed-upon definitions to the Real, fundamental premise of
your Being. And you must be alert to every opportunity you have to make
that leap, that jump, as it were.

Now, as I said, the ego always works by means of suggestion, and it
always presents itself, you might say, as though it were your idea. The
suggestion doesn&rsquo;t come to you, &ldquo;You should be afraid
because you&rsquo;ve just been exposed to something.&rdquo; It says,
&ldquo;Oh dear. I&rsquo;m &hellip; I am afraid. Oh dear. I have been
exposed to something.&rdquo; And because it comes with the word
&ldquo;I&rdquo; attached to it, you think it&rsquo;s your thought, and
you tend to validate what you think spontaneously.

When others project upon you their limited perception of themselves, it
always comes to you as a suggestion. &ldquo;You should feel guilty. You
are at fault. You are being unkind. Blah, blah, blah.&rdquo; It always
comes as a suggestion for you to accept or reject. But you forget that
you have the option to reject it on the spot. And that&rsquo;s what you
need to be alert to. You are not an ego, and your Brothers and Sisters
are not egos either. Therefore, when they speak from an ego sense of
themselves, you need to recognize that is not them who is speaking. But,
just as with a drunk person, you say, &ldquo;That&rsquo;s the liquor
speaking, that&rsquo;s the liquor talking,&rdquo; you need to be alert
to say, &ldquo;Ah, that&rsquo;s the ego talking, not them.&rdquo;

And when the suggestion presents itself within you as your own thought,
you need to be alert enough to recognize it and say, &ldquo;Oh,
that&rsquo;s the ego talking,&rdquo; not &ldquo;That&rsquo;s my ego
talking.&rdquo; Because you don&rsquo;t have an ego!  That&rsquo;s the
ego talking.

It&rsquo;s very important to make this distinction, because as long as
the suggestions that the ego is making can be attached to an
individuality, it seems to gain credence and authority that you buy
into. But the minute you recognize that it&rsquo;s the &hellip;
it&rsquo;s ego speaking, and that therefore it can&rsquo;t be the
individual, and therefore it can&rsquo;t be you either, and you detach
the person from the suggestion, either your own personhood or the
personhood of another, then you have detached the thought, the
suggestion, from that which would seem to give it validity, and
you&rsquo;re able to treat it more objectively. And you&rsquo;re able to
reject it more easily. Do you see what I&rsquo;m saying? Is this making
sense?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Yes.
</div>

You are neither behind the Point of Perfection, nor advancing toward it;
you are, and you always have been, at that Point, and you must begin to
experience and understand yourself from that Point. Else you will never
escape from the human condition, the false experience of being that says
you must be defended all the time, and you must always be on guard for
something new to defend yourself against because you aren&rsquo;t at the
Point of Perfection. You&rsquo;re at the point of imperfection, and
therefore flawed, and therefore vulnerable and therefore in need of the
greatest and surest defense that you can bring to bear upon the
situation.

And I&rsquo;m telling you, that your greatest defense is the recognition
that you don&rsquo;t need a defense at all because you&rsquo;re not
anything less than the Presence of God manifesting Himself as Himself
right where you are and That is What You Are! And is God vulnerable? And
is anything that God is manifesting as Himself right there where you are
vulnerable to anything? No!

Your only real defense is What You Already Truly Are right now! And from
understanding yourself there, you will be able to say to the suggestions
that come, &ldquo;Sorry. I&rsquo;m not going join with this suggestion.
I&rsquo;m not going to agree with this suggestion. There&rsquo;s nothing
about this suggestion I need to be afraid about, so I&rsquo;m not going
to react to this suggestion.&rdquo; You are never ever defending
yourself against anything actual. You&rsquo;re only defending yourself
against something you are afraid is real. Like a child, hiding under the
covers to protect himself from ghosts. You see?

Now what I&rsquo;m talking about, what I&rsquo;m expressing are not a
bunch of ideas that you can use to create a better protection for
yourself. The ideas I&rsquo;m expressing that I would invite you to
abide with, express the fact that You Are That Which Is Utterly
Invulnerable. And you need to claim that for yourself. You need to claim
it for yourself, not as a defense, but as a conscious reminder of the
Truth About You so that you don&rsquo;t slip back into the habit of
trying to be a better and better human being in order to grow out of
being human.

In a way I&rsquo;m saying you&rsquo;ve got to start behaving in your
mind as though you are Divine, and not just think about being Divine. So
that you are using your mind in a new way, and not just repeating the
old habits that are so well-ingrained that they feel absolutely natural.
And because they feel absolutely natural, they are unquestionable, and
you just go along in the same groove, groovin&rsquo; along, without ever
calling the groove into question, or without having the opportunity to
discover that there ain&rsquo;t no such thing as a groove, and
you&rsquo;re not in it and never were. Do you see what I&rsquo;m saying?

 Okay. Let&rsquo;s go to the book.

Again, it&rsquo;s Chapter 6, first subsection, [counting] fifth
paragraph. In the sparkly book, it&rsquo;s page 119, first full
paragraph.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I have made it perfectly clear that I am like you and you are like me,
but our fundamental equality can be demonstrated only through joint
DECISION. [^2]
</div>

Now, so far, I&rsquo;ve been asking you to decide to stop thinking of
yourself as being behind the Point of Perfection and to decide to stop
thinking that you are advancing toward perfection, and to decide to
understand yourself from and be from the Point of Perfection.
That&rsquo;s what I am Being. That is my decision and I&rsquo;m asking
you to join me in it, because in our joining together in it, it is
strengthened. Conversely, in your joining me in that decision, the
mutually-agreed definitions are weakened. And so, in your decision, you
help the rest of the Brotherhood by weakening their conviction around
the mutually-agreed-upon definitions. Your support has been withdrawn.
That&rsquo;s the blessing you give to everyone as well as yourself.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You are free to perceive yourselves as persecuted if you choose. You
might remember, however, when you DO choose to react that way, that I
WAS persecuted as the world judges, and did NOT share this evaluation
for myself. And because I did not share it I did not STRENGTHEN it. I
therefore offered a DIFFERENT interpretation of attack, and one which I
DO want to share with you. If you will BELIEVE it, you will help me to
TEACH it.
</div>

Now I want to go back here to the key word &ldquo;persecuted.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You are free to perceive yourselves as persecuted &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; if you impersonalize the ego, if you impersonalize a
suggestion, it is impossible to feel persecuted. Again, if you
impersonalize a suggestion, it will be impossible to feel persecuted.
Persecution is an experience you have when you believe that a false
assessment, a negative assessment, has been made of you by another
individuality; someone who is consciously intent upon hurting you.
That&rsquo;s when the hackles go up on the back of your neck because
some one is aggressively and consciously choosing to hurt you.

But an idea floating in the air, a thought floating in the air looking
for someone to attach to, offering its wares to you and inviting you to
invite it in and entertain it, there&rsquo;s no way for you to consider
that to be persecution. You can consider it to be bait. But dangling
bait can&rsquo;t be called persecution. And when persecution isn&rsquo;t
an element in the process, reaction won&rsquo;t be a part of your
process, and your ability to dismiss the suggestion will remain simple
and available and clear.  But the moment you add the element of this
suggestion, this negative suggestion, coming from a person, then you
feel a right to be affronted and offended by that real
individual&rsquo;s choice to be unkind to you. And then you will have
reaction and you will have lost sight of the fact that what you&rsquo;ve
been presented with is nothing more than a suggestion.

And so you won&rsquo;t address what needs to be addressed, which is a
foundationless, sourceless suggestion, hypnotic suggestion, if you will.
If you take the bait because the suggestion does say in your mindset
says, &ldquo;This is coming from someone who is trying to hurt me.
I&rsquo;ve got to protect myself against them.&rdquo; Ah! You&rsquo;ve
lost sight of the fact that the only thing that&rsquo;s come into play
is a suggestion which you&rsquo;ve taken hook, line and sinker. And as
long as you then engage in trying to defend yourself against the person
that&rsquo;s become attached to the suggestion, you&rsquo;re hypnotized.
You&rsquo;re already under the influence of what? The suggestion, the
illusion, not the person that that suggestion has become attached to. Is
this making sense?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Oh absolutely.
</div>

Again, if you do not attach a suggestion to a person, there is no way
for you to experience persecution. So you must learn to impersonalize
the ego, impersonalize the suggestion.

If you will, I&rsquo;m paraphrasing the last sentence that was read, if
you will join me in believing the Truth of what I have just said, you
will help me to teach it.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
We have said before, &ldquo;As you teach so shall you learn.&rdquo; If
you react as if you are persecuted, you are TEACHING persecution.
</div>

I would say also that if you are reacting, you are teaching
that you are hypnotized. You are teaching that you are under the
influence, and you are teaching others to be under the influence as
well. Every time you do it, it&rsquo;s like handing your brother a
drink and saying, &ldquo;Get drunk with me.&rdquo; That&rsquo;s not
Love and that&rsquo;s not your Function. And now that you realize
that&rsquo;s what you&rsquo;re doing, I am assured that you will do it
less and less.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
If you react as if you are persecuted, you are TEACHING persecution.
This is not a lesson which the Sons of God should WANT to teach if they
are to realize their own salvation. Rather teach your own perfect
immunity, which IS the truth in you, and KNOW that it cannot be
assailed.
</div>

Now, again, as you read these words, you can think that you&rsquo;re
supposed to know this in order to ward off that which is threatening
you. And if you think that&rsquo;s what it is, you&rsquo;re under the
influence again. You&rsquo;re to know it because it&rsquo;s the Truth.
You aren&rsquo;t behind the Point of Perfection. You aren&rsquo;t
advancing toward the Point of Perfection. You&rsquo;re there, and you
must assess yourself, you must conceive of yourself, you must experience
yourself there from. From there you are unassailable because from there
you are unopposed. And the reason you&rsquo;re unopposed is that when
you&rsquo;re there, you&rsquo;re unconflicted. You&rsquo;re
single-minded. And that is where the &ldquo;I&rdquo; of you, the
essentialness of you, already is right now.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Do not protect it yourselves, or you have believed that it IS
assailable.
</div>

&ldquo;It&rdquo; referring to your immunity.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You are not asked to BE crucified, which was part of my own teaching
contribution. You are merely asked to follow my example in the face of
much LESS extreme temptations to misperceive&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; temptations to misperceive, not actual affronts. Not actual
persecutions. Not actual threats. Temptations to misperceive.
Invitations to misperceive. Suggestive innuendos that invite you to
misperceive.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You are merely asked to follow my example in the face of much LESS
extreme temptations to misperceive, and NOT to accept them falsely as
justifications for anger.
</div>

Or justifications for defense. Or as justifications for becoming afraid.
When you don&rsquo;t abandon the Point of Perfection, when you are alert
to recognize a suggestion for what it is and you impersonalize and keep
impersonalized the suggestions that are presented to you, it
doesn&rsquo;t mean that you become unconscious of the fact that the
suggestions are being made. And you don&rsquo;t become ignorant of the
fact that because the suggestions are being made, a Brother is
experiencing a misunderstanding and correction is called for. I will
keep bringing this balance back into the picture.

You are misperceiving a whole lot because of your deeply ingrained
habits. And just because I know the Truth About You and just because I
know the Truth About Me, doesn&rsquo;t mean that I don&rsquo;t see where
the places of correction exist to be addressed. And then I address them,
which is what I&rsquo;m doing right now.

Something needs to be done about the misunderstandings. Something needs
to be done about the misperceptions that others have been invited
through the power of suggestion to accept and agree to. They need to be
freed from their habit of going under [snaps fingers] at the drop of a
hat, of becoming hypnotized from moment to moment about something new.
They deserve and need the same freedom you do.

But, as I&rsquo;ve been bringing out, if you remain unhypnotized, then
you will not experience persecution as what is happening. And you will
not be in a state of reaction. And as a result you will be able to be
available to your, shall I say, your hypnotized or inebriated Brother in
a way that will help break the hypnotic spell.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There can BE no justification for the unjustifiable.
</div>

You might just as well say there is no justification for becoming sick
as a result of being exposed to something that can&rsquo;t make you sick
because it&rsquo;s not real. There&rsquo;s no justification for becoming
sick when you&rsquo;re exposed to &ldquo;germs&rdquo; because
you&rsquo;re invulnerable. Don&rsquo;t forget that you&rsquo;re
invulnerable. Remember it consciously. Make a practice of remembering
that you&rsquo;re invulnerable. Why? Because you didn&rsquo;t create
yourself. And What Created You is indivisible and undivided, therefore
unpolarized and incapable of being the presence of anything other than
singular harmony without conflict.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There can BE no justification for the unjustifiable. Do not believe
there is, and do not TEACH that there is. Remember always that what you
believe, you WILL teach. Believe with me, and we will become equal as
teachers.
</div>

You know what? It doesn&rsquo;t mean you will become equal with me, The
Great Teacher. It doesn&rsquo;t have to do with levels of teaching. We
will be equal in our Awareness of What Truth Is. We will be equal in
Being That Which Is Expressing The Truth. It has nothing to do with
comparisons of quality of teaching. It has to do with what&rsquo;s being
taught. And we will become equal as teachers because we are together
embodying Truth.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
YOUR resurrection is your reawakening. I am the model for rebirth, but
rebirth itself is merely the dawning on your minds of what is already in
them.
</div>

It&rsquo;s you remembering that you aren&rsquo;t behind the Point of
Perfection, and you&rsquo;re not advancing toward it, and that you must
understand yourself there from, because that&rsquo;s always been where
you&rsquo;ve been being from. And you couldn&rsquo;t ever have been
doing anything else.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I am the model for rebirth, but rebirth itself is merely the dawning on
your minds of what is already in them. God placed it there Himself, and
so it is true forever.
</div>

That&rsquo;s part of your being at the Point of Perfection.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I believed in it, and therefore made it forever true for me.
</div>

It had always been Forever True, but until I believed it, it was not
Forever True for me. It&rsquo;s True about you, each of you, but it
won&rsquo;t be True for you until it is True for you.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Help me to teach it to our brothers in the name of the Kingdom of God,
but first believe that it is true for YOU, or you will teach amiss.
</div>

If you don&rsquo;t remember it for yourself, you&rsquo;ll accept the
suggestion and then, in so many words, you&rsquo;ll go into a hypnotic
trance and live out whatever the hypnotist suggested, even though
it&rsquo;s not really going on.  And you&rsquo;ll teach dreaming. And
you&rsquo;ll teach trance. Trance 1, trance 2, trance 3, advanced
trance. [audience amusement]

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
My brothers slept during the so-called &ldquo;agony&rdquo; in the
garden, but I could not be angry with them because I had learned I could
not BE abandoned. Peter swore he would never deny me, but he did so
three times. He did offer to defend me with the sword, which I naturally
refused, not being at all in need of bodily protection. I AM sorry when
my brothers do not share my decision to hear only one voice, because it
weakens them as teachers AND as learners. Yet I know that they cannot
really betray themselves OR me, and that it is still on them that I must
build my church.
</div>

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I AM sorry when my brothers do not share my decision to hear only one
voice, because it weakens them as teachers AND as learners. Yet I know
that they cannot really betray themselves OR me&hellip;
</div>

Do you see in that sentence, that part of the sentence, &ldquo;Yet I
know that they cannot really betray themselves or me,&rdquo; that that
is the act of impersonalizing the suggestions. That statement says I did
not attach the suggestion that their behavior came from them to them. I
impersonalized it. I lifted the suggestion off of them, just as I had
lifted it off of me. It could be rather discouraging to think that poor
misguided them were the ones upon whom I must build my church. [a little
audience amusement] But it&rsquo;s not disheartening because, having
impersonalized the suggestion, having removed them personally from the
suggestion, it was easy to see, it is easy to see that they&rsquo;re
still what God created them to be and that they are worthy of being the
ones to build my church.

Mmm. &ldquo;To build my church.&rdquo; Well, they are the ones to join
with me in the remembrance of What They Divinely Are, so that together
joined in decision we can glorify God by presenting nothing other than
What God Is Being right where we are. And that&rsquo;s what constitutes
church. And church is not really the key word. It&rsquo;s the joining
together in the Conscious Being of What Is True About Us. Church, you
might say, fully established is everyone finally having come Home.

And who else is there to come Home beside what appears to be a motley
crew? [a little audience amusement] Which could be discouraging if I
accepted the suggestion that you are a motley crew. In one way or
another, you all tell me that you are. And you&rsquo;re reluctant to
leave your motleyness. [audience amusement]

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
They call it the church of the quivering flesh.
</div>

The quivering what?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
The quivering flesh.
</div>

Ah, the church of the quivering flesh. Yes. Yes. [amused]

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Trance.
</div>

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
There is no choice in this because only you can BE the foundation of
God&rsquo;s church. A church is where an altar is, and the presence of
the altar is what MAKES it a church.
</div>

And the Altar is in you, and it&rsquo;s the Holiness of You kept intact
because God is uninterruptible. And therefore, God&rsquo;s Presence in
you is the intactness of your Holiness that&rsquo;s uninterruptible.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Any church which does not inspire love has a hidden altar which is not
serving the purpose for which God intended it.
</div>

And let&rsquo;s be clear here. It doesn&rsquo;t mean a second Altar
that&rsquo;s hidden, with evil motives and ungodlike intentions. It
doesn&rsquo;t mean a personal altar that you have erected in honor of
yourself. It&rsquo;s referring to the one and only Altar. &ldquo;Any
church which does not inspire love has a hidden altar.&rdquo; In other
words, your Divinity is hidden from you. And because it&rsquo;s hidden,
then it is not serving the purpose for which God intended it.

The Altar is the Holy Spirit in You. And the Holy Spirit is nothing more
than your Right Mind. And Its Function is to Know Truth and not be
fooled by suggestions to the contrary as to What Truth Is. And when
you&rsquo;re not paying attention to it, it&rsquo;s hidden from you and
it&rsquo;s hidden from the world. And it&rsquo;s &hellip; you withhold
it from me, but you can&rsquo;t cover it up to me because I don&rsquo;t
accept the suggestion that you put forth to me that we&rsquo;re
different and that you&rsquo;re devoted in struggling but not quite
there yet. Tain&rsquo;t so. You&rsquo;re neither behind the Point of
Perfection, nor advancing toward it. I tell you right now, you&rsquo;re
at that Point! And that&rsquo;s the way you need to start seeing
yourself and experiencing yourself and being.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I must found His &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; God&rsquo;s &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; church on you because you who accept me as a model are
literally my disciples. Disciples are followers, but if the model they
follow has chosen to save them pain in all respects, they are probably
unwise NOT to follow him.
</div>

That&rsquo;s just simple common sense. Follow me. You must follow the
same path of undoing.

It&rsquo;s difficult to know whether I&rsquo;m leading or pushing;
leading from in front of you or pushing from behind you. [audience
amusement] Or slapping you smartly in the face saying, &ldquo;Wake up!
Wake up! You&rsquo;re already here! Wake up!&rdquo;

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I elected, both for your sake AND mine, to demonstrate that the most
outrageous assault, as judged by the ego, did not matter. As the world
judges these things, but NOT as God KNOWS them, I was betrayed,
abandoned, beaten, torn, and finally killed. It was perfectly clear that
this was only because of the projection of others, because I had not
harmed anyone and had healed many. We are still equal as learners, even
though we need not have equal experiences. The Holy Spirit is glad when
you can learn enough from mine to be reawakened by them. That was their
only purpose, and that is the only way in which I can be perceived as
the Way, the Truth and the Light.
</div>

Those are strong words, &ldquo;betrayed, abandoned, beaten, torn, and
finally killed.&rdquo; The Principle, the Truth, is True at all levels
of misperception.

You say, &ldquo;My God, might I have to do that?&rdquo; But let me tell
you this.  You say, instead of saying &ldquo;I was betrayed, abandoned,
beaten, torn, and killed,&rdquo; you say, &ldquo;Well today I was
exposed to the flu. I was confronted by an obviously frustrated
policeman who hasn&rsquo;t fulfilled his quota and was just picking on
anybody doing the slightest thing.&rdquo; What you&rsquo;re actually
saying is, &ldquo;I forgot to remember that I&rsquo;m neither behind the
Point of Perfection nor advancing toward it, and that I&rsquo;m
invulnerable, and that I wasn&rsquo;t confronted by anything that made a
statement about my safety. And therefore I was not confronted by
anything I need to give a second thought to or defend myself
against.&rdquo;

Illness and disease and suffering are suggestions that were presented to
you that you became distracted by. And in the face of them, you
abandoned the Clear, Conscious Experience that you are at the Point of
Perfection and that What You Are is incapable of being affected
positively or negatively by suggestions, by that which doesn&rsquo;t
have any Source.

There is no order of difficulty in miracles because miracles uncover the
fact that all forms of threat are imaginary, unreal, Sourceless... PERIOD.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you hear only one voice you are NEVER called on to sacrifice. On
the contrary, by enabling yourselves to hear the Holy Spirit in others,
you can learn from their experiences, and gain from them WITHOUT
experiencing them yourselves.
</div>

Now I want you to be clear here, too. It is possible to become
intellectually and spiritually and metaphysically confused to the point
where you would read this to say, &ldquo;On the contrary, by enabling
yourselves to hear the Holy Spirit in others who are attacking you, you
can learn from their experiences.&rdquo; No. By enabling yourselves to
hear the Holy Spirit in others like me, the Holy Spirit in others who
are letting the Holy Spirit speak for them, by listening to the Holy
Spirit in Others Who Are Awake, like your own Guides, you can learn from
their experiences and gain from them without experiencing them
yourselves.

In other words, you don&rsquo;t have to keep reinventing the wheel. You
don&rsquo;t have to reinvent the Atonement. All you have to do is let
yourself companion with One who has, so that you might learn from their
experience.

The Holy Spirit never speaks through your Brother by means of his
ignorance of the Truth about himself, acted out toward you as a call for
Love that really means misbehaving. So don&rsquo;t try to figure out
what the Holy Spirit is trying to say to you by means of your
Brother&rsquo;s bad behavior.

Is anyone not clear about what I&rsquo;ve just said? I mean it&rsquo;s a
&hellip; if you are, please say so and we will make it clearer. Okay.

Again &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; by enabling yourselves to hear the Holy Spirit in others, you
can learn from their experiences, and gain from them WITHOUT
experiencing them yourselves. That is because the Holy Spirit is
one&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning infinite, all-inclusive &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and anyone who listens is inevitably led to demonstrate His
&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; way for all.
</div>

The moment you become clear, the moment you decide for Truth with me,
you lessen the density of the dream by withdrawing from the
mutually-agreed-upon definitions, and so your decision has been for
everyone.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You are not persecuted&hellip;
</div>

The suggestion is that you&rsquo;re persecuted. But you&rsquo;re not.
You&rsquo;re neither behind the Point of Perfection nor advancing toward
it. You&rsquo;re at that Point and that Point is the Living Presence and
Movement of God Being The Only Mind There Is right where you are, Which
is incapable of being split, and therefore is still Whole and
doesn&rsquo;t need to be fixed.  Persecution is nonsense.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You are not persecuted, nor was I. You are not asked to REPEAT my
experiences because the Holy Spirit, Whom we SHARE, makes this
unnecessary. To USE my experiences constructively, however, you must
still follow my example in how to perceive them.

My brothers and yours are constantly engaged in justifying the
unjustifiable.
</div>

In other words, they&rsquo;re still hypnotized. They&rsquo;re still
fooled into believing that they&rsquo;re vulnerable and that they must
protect themselves.  They&rsquo;ve abandoned the Conscious Experience of
Being at the Point of Perfection which they can&rsquo;t leave. And they
are caught up in a dream of defending themselves against something that
doesn&rsquo;t exist.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
My brothers and yours are constantly engaged in justifying the
unjustifiable. My one lesson, which I must teach as I learned, is that
no perception which is out of accord with the judgment of the Holy
Spirit CAN be justified.
</div>

Any perception which is out of accord with the judgment of the Holy
Spirit is a judgment made from a state of deluded conscious awareness
where you&rsquo;ve already taken the bait. You&rsquo;re already under.
You&rsquo;ve already lost perspective, Divinely speaking.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
I undertook to show this was true in a very extreme case merely because
it would serve as a good teaching aid to those whose temptations to give
in to anger and assault would NOT be so extreme. I will, with God, that
none of His Sons should suffer.
</div>

If you will with God that none of your Brothers should suffer, are you
going to go out and find a better antidote to the flu? Or are you going
to address the fundamental problem that your Brother is neither behind
the Point of Perfection, nor advancing toward it; that he is at this
instant, no matter how he&rsquo;s defining himself, at that Point. And
he needs be willing to allow a shift to occur wherein he&rsquo;s willing
to conceive of himself from the Point of Perfection and be from the
Point of Perfection in which he&rsquo;s untouchable, unreachable, by any
threat and in whose Presence threat cannot present itself. In whose
Presence persecution is meaningless because he hasn&rsquo;t taken the
bait. Because he hasn&rsquo;t taken the bait. And because he
hasn&rsquo;t taken the bait, he can see the bait for what it is. And can
address the motive that caused a Brother to dangle the bait in the first
place so that the Brother can withdraw the bait because he&rsquo;s not
interested in deluding you either.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Remember that the Holy Spirit is the communication link between God the
Father and His separated Sons. If you will listen to His Voice&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that which is nothing more than your right Mind &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; you will know that you cannot either hurt or BE hurt, and that
many need your blessing to help them hear this for themselves.
</div>

Your Brothers need to hear it, just as you need to hear it right now.

Continuing &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
When you perceive ONLY this need in them, and do not respond to ANY
other, you will have learned of me, and will be as eager to share your
learning as I am. The crucifixion CANNOT be shared because it is the
symbol of projection, but the resurrection is the symbol of SHARING
because the reawakening of every Son of God is necessary to enable the
Sonship to know its wholeness. Only this IS knowledge.

The message of the crucifixion is perfectly clear:

&ldquo;Teach ONLY love, for that is what you ARE.&rdquo;
</div>

So, how do you teach Love? You teach it by not taking the bait, not
becoming inebriated or hypnotized into being in a constant state of
defending yourself against ghosts.

&ldquo;Oh,&rdquo; you say, &ldquo;but I can see the germs! They can show
me the germs under the microscope. And they can show me this
person&rsquo;s lungs after they died and had an autopsy and they
can&hellip; I can see what the germs did to the tissues. What do you
mean I can&rsquo;t be persecuted? What do you mean I&rsquo;m not
vulnerable?&rdquo;

You know what? You&rsquo;re gonna start having new reports in the news
that demonstrate the other side. That when you stop taking the bait,
when you do not play into the suggestions that come to you that you
need to join the mutually-agreed-upon definitions about how germs and
bodies and matter work, bodies that seem to have been affected by germs
will have a spontaneous remission. What you will call physical healing
will occur. And if as it were possible that someone were to die who was
open to being healed so that a lung could be looked at, which had
earlier been examined and been found to be in a great state of
deterioration, they would find everything there to be absolutely
flawless in spite of the fact that the mutually-agreed-upon definitions
about how germs and matter work could be demonstrated and seen under a
microscope.

It&rsquo;s time for new things to happen besides sin, disease and death.
And they can happen because none of you is behind the Point of
Perfection, and therefore flawed and inadequate and vulnerable. And
you&rsquo;re not advancing toward it. And doing pretty well, if I might
say so, and spiritualizing yourself wonderfully, but it might be another
1,000 lifetimes before you make it. You&rsquo;re not advancing toward it
either.  You&rsquo;re at that Point, and you must understand yourself
there from, from there.

You must be willing to open yourself up to the Conscious Experience of
Being There. And even if you&rsquo;re not having the total Conscious
Experience of Being There, you must dare to voice to yourself that
you&rsquo;re not available to join in mutually-agreed-upon definitions
without running them by the Holy Spirit first. And that means that you
must object [snaps fingers] you must object [snaps fingers] on the spot
when these suggestions come to you out of your memory, or when
they&rsquo;re presented to you on the spot through the media or your
Brothers or Sisters.

It may be fun to go to a show that a hypnotist is putting on. And it may
be fun to watch the guy walk around on the stage thinking he&rsquo;s a
rooster cackling at the hens and crowing and strutting his stuff.
[audience laugh] It may be funny, but you know he&rsquo;s suffering a
delusion.

Your delusions are no more real, but they seem not to be funny to you,
and for the most part they seem not to be funny to anyone around you.
And it&rsquo;s important for you to stop taking them seriously, and
objecting to them so that you might become [snaps fingers] unhypnotized,
and thus demonstrate that you have joined with me in this decision, and
demonstrate along with me that there is no order of difficulty in
miracles.

You don&rsquo;t have to hang on a cross. You don&rsquo;t seem to have to
die and then resurrect so that you can demonstrate for your Brothers
that you are not available to see them as persecutors. And that
you&rsquo;re not available to see yourself as persecuted because
you&rsquo;ve insisted not to take the bait in the first place that their
very behavior suggests to you that you should do.

Good stuff.

That&rsquo;s not Paul. That&rsquo;s me.

The Truth is wonderful. And the Truth is radical. The statement,
&ldquo;In defenselessness my safety lies,&rdquo; you see, really
doesn&rsquo;t mean presenting no defense in the face of threat and
letting threat walk all over you.  Your safety lies in your
unwillingness to abandon the Point of Perfection that you&rsquo;re in,
which is a Place in which you see nothing to be defended against, and
the Place in which the apparent call for defense can be recognized as a
suggestion being made by a Brother who&rsquo;s ignorant of the Point of
Perfection that he is in, and who is in need, not of retaliation, but of
the Loving Expression of Truth in language that he or she can hear, that
helps him realize that his defenselessness does not mean abandoning bad
behavior that he thinks is going to defend his safety, but in not
forgetting Who He Is and thinking a new definition of himself and
believing it and as a result having moved into a state of delusion.

And you will be able to be a healing Presence. And you will be able to
teach him how not to take the bait, how to recognize the bait, and pass
on the gift to his Brothers and Sisters who are dangling bait in front
of him.

Okay. I look forward to being with you next week.

[^1]: Students &ndash; commenting or asking a question.
[^2]: T6.1 The Message of the Crucifixion

