---
title: Jul 3, 2016
ref: "T15.4 Practicing the Holy Instant"
alink: "/acim/text/15/chap1504/"
---

Good evening. I&rsquo;m grateful to be here with each of you.

In the United States, tomorrow is a holiday &hellip; Independence Day
&hellip; g-l-o-r-i-o-u-s independence!

But you know what? There&rsquo;s nothing new about it. As I said the
last time I spoke with you, when one or more of the Sons or Daughters of
God decided to define Creation themselves, in spite of the eternal
Meanings that the Father had given everything and continues to give
everything, that was the ONLY Independence Day there was.

No matter how much each of you tends to reinforce independence,
it&rsquo;s always a reinforcement of that initial step away from the
Father&rsquo;s Perspective in favor of one&rsquo;s own. This act of
independence has appropriately been called, &ldquo;The Fall.&rdquo;
It&rsquo;s the very thing that everyone is, at the bottom line, anxious
to become free of.

But there is a cost to becoming free of it. The cost is your imagined
independence. And the cost is your actual conscious practice of
originating thoughts yourself and keeping them to yourself. When I say
keeping them to yourself, I mean keeping them from the Father. Because I
will tell you, and you all know, that you share your private views with
each other. Every one of you who is &ldquo;fallen&rdquo; share and
confirm with vigor your independence. Many of you do it in groups and
you thrill each other with enthusiastic support for your independence,
and agreement that this activated independence is what gives you
purpose, is what gives you and your life meaning.

So, the cost of abandoning independence is the cost of that practice. I
could say that the day will come when you could set a new holiday called
&ldquo;Union Day&rdquo; or &ldquo;Reunion Day,&rdquo; but the fact is
that once union is allowed once again, to set a holiday for it will be
ridiculous because the experience of union doesn&rsquo;t leave anyone of
you singularly alone to join with another in appreciation of some aspect
of Reality as it is. Because in reunion, you all experience it as it
truly is together simultaneously.

But let me be perfectly clear, in the simultaneity of it, there is still
conscious individuality. There is still identity, but it isn&rsquo;t
identity over and against another identity or another group of
identities. It&rsquo;s identity that represents harmony&mdash;pure
living, daily, ongoing harmony, which means that it is the experience of
what Love is.

Now, your globe is engaged in various forms of acts of
independence&mdash;acts of independence which in themselves are causing
further deterioration of unity. Some say that this is excellent,
inevitable, because that which isn&rsquo;t working must collapse.

But you know what? It isn&rsquo;t what is occurring in and amongst and
between mankind that needs to collapse, it is the practice of
independence in looking at it all and in the seeing of your brothers and
sisters.

The call is not for greater and more complex independence, but a simpler
and more real expression and practice and embodiment of Love from the
tips of your toes to the furthest star, and everything in between, which
means that before it gets to the star, everyone on your globe will have
been embraced in it.

Salvation doesn&rsquo;t come from dis-unity. Salvation lies in unity.

Now, this obviously puts almost everyone in the middle of an intolerable
situation. There is a call to unify disparate parts of the Brotherhood,
when their behavior is so obtuse and mean-spirited and destructive, that
there seems to be no way to even consider unification.

The call is to first stop the bad behavior. And of course, if
you&rsquo;re going to stop the bad behavior, and you&rsquo;re not going
to do it with Love, you&rsquo;re going to do it with force. And if the
force is not Love, the force is hate. If the force is not Love, the
force is evil. And so that is not the answer.

Now there is a saying, a very important saying by Edwin Markham, who
said: &ldquo;He drew a circle that shut me out&mdash;heretic, rebel, a
thing to flout. But Love and I had the wit to win. We drew a circle and
took him in.&rdquo;

You know, finding a way of dealing with enemies is as ancient a problem
as dealing with &ldquo;The Fall.&rdquo; Somewhere someone is looking at
you and somewhere you are looking at someone else and defining them as
an enemy, and backing up your claims with what you call
&ldquo;facts,&rdquo; like beheadings, like murderous rampages in
restaurants and airports, like a mother in the South of the United
States killing her four children, like murder on the streets every day.

You know, the enemy isn&rsquo;t just &ldquo;over there.&rdquo; The enemy
is right in you and it&rsquo;s called, &ldquo;seeking to have a private
thought&rdquo;&mdash;a personal private self-manufactured thought about
someone or something&mdash;a thought which you never ran by the Father,
a thought which you have excluded the Father from. And you have come to
the conclusion that your thought is absolute and absolutely correct.
That&rsquo;s the terrorist.

That is the terrorist. We call it the ego. It&rsquo;s called,
&ldquo;mortal mind&rdquo; as opposed to divine Mind. It&rsquo;s called
that which fortifies itself by building itself up without ever drawing
upon anything Real to substantiate it. And because it never draws upon
anything that is Real, the only way it can substantiate itself is
through the use of force&mdash;either the force of words, or the force
of actions or the force of armies&mdash;all of which destroy. And of
course the reason for that is to scare everyone so badly, that no one
will object.

Husbands do it to wives every day, wives do it to husbands every day.
Parents do it to children. Children do it to each other. But no matter
how BIG the stage becomes in which these things are practiced,
it&rsquo;s still the same little inconsequential, meaningless,
fabricated idea that one&rsquo;s own thoughts are the only thing that
matter and there&rsquo;s no one really to join with. Oh, I know, you
join with your fellowman in many different ways and there are many of
them that are constructive.

But if the basis for your joining with your brother is not a result of
the practice of the holy instant, where there was a joining with the
Father and you ran the ideas by Him, and together you came to the
realization that what was being done was appropriate, then it&rsquo;s
all part of the illusion of independence which has to be abandoned.

&ldquo;But Love and I had the wit to win. We drew a circle and took him
in.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Hell, how can I draw a circle and take in the be-header&mdash;the
one who I know is responsible for great suffering?&rdquo;

Well, there you are, you don&rsquo;t know the Answer. So don&rsquo;t try
to bluff your way through it. Be honest with yourself and recognize that
you don&rsquo;t know how to create or bring about harmony all by
yourself where such devastating activities are occurring. And then be
grateful that an Answer has been given to you. And the Answer is called,
&ldquo;the holy instant.&rdquo; In the not too distant past it was
called, &ldquo;prayer.&rdquo; It&rsquo;s the practice of saying,
&ldquo;Father I don&rsquo;t have the answer here, but correction is
called for. What I&rsquo;m experiencing is not love and I know that love
is possible, I feel it beyond the level of my reasoning&mdash;beyond the
level of my doubt. I don&rsquo;t know how to contribute to it coming
forth. Help me!&rdquo;

That&rsquo;s the beginning of the practice of the holy instant.

Oh, I know, you look &ldquo;out there&rdquo; that things are becoming so
bad that you&rsquo;re thinking about leaving the country or you&rsquo;re
thinking about leaving the planet! You&rsquo;re thinking about curling
up and going to sleep and never waking up again &hellip; because
it&rsquo;s just impossible! But it&rsquo;s not. It&rsquo;s only
impossible when you&rsquo;re looking at how you can do it by yourself.
And there&rsquo;s nothing you can do by yourself that will accomplish a
divine transformational permanent healing, or correction of the problem.

And so you have to take your emptiness with an acknowledgement of its
presence and no intent on your part to try to fill it up by yourself
anymore and saying to the Father, &ldquo;Father, what is the truth
here?&rdquo;

And then comes the hard part. The hard part is, that you don&rsquo;t
listen patiently and quietly for three or four minutes, and then throw
up your hands in impatience and begin to think your own wild
imaginations again which upset you and cause you to lose the stillness
which is the first step of entering the holy instant. And you stay with
the not-knowing, asking, &ldquo;What is the truth here?&rdquo; until you
get the Answer&mdash;which means until you hear the Father or until you
hear the Holy Spirit.

And why am I making that distinction? Just hearing an answer
doesn&rsquo;t constitute communion. It doesn&rsquo;t constitute a union
of that which had seemed to be two and now is One, where you Know from
the presence of what the Father is revealing to you, that indeed, the
Father is the One revealing it and you have become illuminated to
yourself as His expression, His Son or Daughter, so that the realization
of Truth that you experience is at the same time a realization of the
experience, for lack of better words, of family, of belonging&mdash;you
belonging&mdash;no longer isolated and independent.

And in that Union, you will begin to Know what to do that begins the
transformation&mdash;that triggers the transformation.

I&rsquo;m going to read from a section called,

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Practicing the Holy Instant[^1]

I stand within the holy instant, as clear as you would have me. And the
extent to which you learn to be willing to accept me is the measure of
the time in which the holy instant will be yours. I call to you to make
the holy instant yours at once, for the release from littleness in the
mind of the host of God depends on willingness, and NOT on time.
</div> 

&ldquo;Oh, I can&rsquo;t do it yet! I&rsquo;m not ready yet!&rdquo;

Well, you&rsquo;re using the excuse of time. And what you&rsquo;re
actually saying is, &ldquo;I&rsquo;m not yet willing in this moment to
abandon my pet theory, or how I think everything ought to go down.
I&rsquo;m not willing to be free of that which disallows for
communion.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The reason why this course is simple is that TRUTH is simple. Complexity
is of the ego, and is nothing more than the ego&rsquo;s attempt to
obscure the obvious.
</div>

Now, listen to this:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
You could live forever in the holy instant, BEGINNING NOW and reaching
to eternity, but for a very simple reason. Do not obscure the simplicity
of this reason, for if you do, it will be only because you prefer not to
recognize it, and not to let it go. The simple reason&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; here it is:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; simply stated, is this: The holy instant is a time in which you
receive and GIVE perfect communication.
</div>

It&rsquo;s a time in which you receive and GIVE &hellip; you don&rsquo;t
just receive it, and have this secret knowledge of truth that&rsquo;s
going to transform you and make you better able to survive in the middle
of chaos &hellip; no. It&rsquo;s a time in which you receive and GIVE
perfect communication.

It&rsquo;s a time when you become involved with your brother and with
your world from the standpoint of your active, conscious unity with God.
You see? Of course, letting God give the directions and not thinking of
it as though someone is dictating to you because you&rsquo;re no longer
holding yourself apart as an orphan.

So you let the Father, Who is your Father, Whom you are the offspring
of&mdash;forever the offspring of&mdash;you let That constitute your
perspective. In other words, you let His Perspective be yours, when it
comes right down to it, that&rsquo;s not always an easy thing to agree
to. But you know what? If you&rsquo;re a Christian and you say the
Lord&rsquo;s Prayer, you say, &ldquo;Thy Will be done on Earth as it is
in Heaven&rdquo;[^2]&mdash;and you&rsquo;re not supposed to mean &ldquo;Thy
Will be done on earth BUT NOT THROUGH ME!&rdquo; &ldquo;Thy Will be done
on earth through someone else&rsquo;s involvement, someone else&rsquo;s
participation in facing into that which is the opposite of
God&rdquo;&mdash;with God and persisting until you hear God.

Why? Because when you hear God you&rsquo;re hearing your right Mind and
it brings you Home. And because you&rsquo;re Home before you act in the
smallest of your daily experiences, the world is changed. It is the
little bit of leaven that leavens the whole lump![^3]

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your practice &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; I&rsquo;m backing up to page 356.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Your practice must therefore rest upon your willingness &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; willingness, not willfulness, not self-assertion, but your
yielding, you&rsquo;re being utterly feminine &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; your willingness to let all littleness go.
</div>

What in the hell does that mean? Letting all littleness go? You&rsquo;ve
got grand ideas, you say, you have a lot of constructive ideas, you have
a lot to contribute. &ldquo;There&rsquo;s nothing little about
that!&rdquo;

But you see, when you have the thought all by yourself, when you have a
thought that you have manufactured all by yourself &hellip; or,
let&rsquo;s say, you have a thought that was actually inspired by the
Father, but you appropriated for your use, for your reasons,
you&rsquo;re engaged in littleness because you isolated yourself from
the Wholeness of you.

You know I&rsquo;ve said before, &ldquo;The Holy Spirit is nothing more
than your right Mind held in trust while you dally with the ego.&rdquo;
So the magnitude of you is forever present but blocked by you as long as
you&rsquo;re insisting upon being an independent authorizer&mdash;being
the terrorizer.

If you want to be the leaven that leavens the whole lump, abandon your
own terrorist activities. And you know what? Don&rsquo;t think I&rsquo;m
talking about this detailed thing or that detailed thing that you did or
didn&rsquo;t do that terrorized everyone, I&rsquo;m talking about the
simple inner act where you dare to act without ever saying,
&ldquo;Father what is the truth here?&rdquo; &ldquo;Father, is this the
right thing to do?&rdquo; &ldquo;Father, if it is not the right thing to
do, what is? I want to know what it is so that I may do it, instead of
what will be a failure and will constitute the furtherance of terrorism
and its disastrous results.&rdquo;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The instant in which magnitude will dawn upon you &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what is this magnitude? It&rsquo;s the wholeness of you
that&rsquo;s been held in trust out of sight because you have your eyes
tightly closed against it in favor of what you can imagine for yourself.
So:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The instant in which magnitude will dawn upon you &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; your Wholeness and therefore your inseparable Oneness with all
of Creation&hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; is but as far away as your DESIRE for it.
</div>

You see? It doesn&rsquo;t have anything to do with &ldquo;out
there.&rdquo; It has to do with &ldquo;in here&rdquo; in the middle of
your mind and heart.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The instant in which magnitude will dawn upon you is but as far away as
your &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; what? ah-h &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; DESIRE for it.
</div>

*DESIRE for it*, instead of the exciting praise that you might be able to
generate if you can come up with the Answer yourself and be able to take
credit for it. You see?

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
As long as you desire it not, and cherish littleness instead, by so much
is it far from you. By so much as you want it will you bring it nearer.
</div>

Daily you keep it at a distance &hellip; daily Paul keeps it at a
distance. You watch the news, you watch the pundits, you hear of the
events and you react. And you want your reaction and you want to feel it
because you&rsquo;re justified&mdash;give you a chance, and you would
straighten it all out. &ldquo;Kill the bastards!&rdquo; &ldquo;Bomb the
guys!&rdquo; &ldquo;Keep them out!&rdquo; &ldquo;Draw the
line&mdash;thus far and no farther!&rdquo; &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t you dare
impose upon me by getting in my space or I will impose upon you!&rdquo;

Well, tit for tat &hellip; huh? Terrorism for terrorism.

And yet you do it thoughtlessly, not because you&rsquo;re a &ldquo;dyed
in the wool&rdquo; terrorist. But simply because emotion feels good, you
say. It helps relieve [big laugh] the &ldquo;tension.&rdquo; [still
laughing]

Better you took a swig of beer or knocked yourself out&mdash;put
yourself out of your misery for a little while.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Think not that you can find salvation in your own way and HAVE it. Give
over EVERY plan that you have made &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that you have MADE &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; for your salvation in exchange for God&rsquo;s.
</div>

See, you can&rsquo;t &hellip; don&rsquo;t waste your time reading
something like that and saying, &ldquo;Well, I&rsquo;m not here to
become a monk.&rdquo; &ldquo;I&rsquo;m not here to be a Priest.&rdquo;
&ldquo;I&rsquo;m not here to be a religious person.&rdquo; Well, let me
ask you this? Are you here to be Sane? Are you here to be in your right
Mind? Are you here to be safe? Are you here to be invulnerable? Yes, you
are. And so do what brings you those things. Turn to the infinite
Intelligence of the universe that is unfolding the universe in every
instant and ask of It, ask of Him to reveal to you His Perspective.
Because it is the Perspective He placed in you from the beginning and in
every single moment. And it is your Birthright to be experiencing it and
it&rsquo;s a foolish, suffering waste of time for you not to.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Give over EVERY plan &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; every reasonable or silly little set of ideas &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; that you have made for your salvation in exchange for
God&rsquo;s. His will content you&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; see? But it isn&rsquo;t like God and poor little man, and
God&rsquo;s Perspective will content poor little you, and you&rsquo;ll
still be poor little you, but somehow you&rsquo;ll be dumbly happy,
because this beneficent God is provided you with some Knowledge. No!
What the Father provides to you is the illumination of the magnitude of
you. And when you see the magnitude of you, and it means to you exactly
what it is, you have the inescapable awareness that it&rsquo;s true
about every single one of your brothers and sisters. And if you
don&rsquo;t think that realization transforms like the &ldquo;leaven
that leavens the whole lump&rdquo;&mdash;all of your brothers and
sisters then&mdash;you misunderstand the power of it, and the Presence
of it that you hold within you by your decision to not try to be so damn
self-important all by yourself, but to give it up in favor of Being the
Presence of Love that draws a circle and takes Him in and takes it
&hellip; everything in, embraces it all.

God&rsquo;s plan &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; [His] will content you, and there is nothing else that can
bring you peace. For peace is of God&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and here&rsquo;s the clincher &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and of no-one beside Him.
</div>

What I&rsquo;m talking about is for everyone, but especially for
students of A Course In Miracles. It has application because none of
this is new to you although the way you&rsquo;re looking at it or the
way you need to be looking at it will be new to you. Not enough
attention is given to the depth and meaning of the practice of the holy
instant.

Listen to this:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
Be humble before Him&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; meaning the Father &hellip;

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; and yet great IN Him. And value no plan of the ego before the
plan of God.
</div>

Value not your fantastic ideas before you value His. You see? Sidestep
the clutter from the beginning, sidestep what gets in your way from the
beginning.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[And] value no plan of the ego before the plan of God. For you leave
empty &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; Listen to this:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
For you leave empty your place in His plan, which you must fulfill if
you would join with me, by your decision to join in any plan BUT His.
</div>

A difficult sentence to grasp, so I&rsquo;m going to break it up into
two parts.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[And] value no plan of the ego before the plan of God. For you leave
empty your place in His plan, &hellip; by your decision to join in any
plan BUT His.
</div>

That&rsquo;s clear. There&rsquo;s a subjective clause, however, that
says:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
&hellip; which you must fulfill if you would join with me&hellip;
</div>

&ldquo;No man cometh under the Father but by me.&rdquo;[^4] No man cometh
under the Father but by the Holy Spirit. You see?

So if you want to get to the Father, you must join with me, you must
join with the Holy Spirit, which means you must be willing to shift the
way you have been being and yield to that which is nothing more than
your right Mind&mdash;yield to the Father&rsquo;s Perspective, which is
manifest in you through the Holy Spirit. That is the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s
function.

As long as you are holding yourself separate, then that of you, that of
your divinity, which you are ignoring, stands in the single purpose of
revealing the rest of you, to you, in order to break down the isolation
which makes you think you are small and independent, and returns you to
your Sanity&mdash;the meaning of the word &ldquo;Atonement.&rdquo;

So again:

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
[And] value no plan of the ego before the plan of God. For you leave
empty your place in His plan, which you must fulfill if you would join
with me, by your decision to join in any plan BUT His.
</div>

If you wish to have the Holy Spirit speak to you, let&rsquo;s put it
this way: if you wish to hear the Holy Spirit&mdash;since after all, the
Holy Spirit is always addressing you trying to get your
attention&mdash;but if you are willing to hear the Holy Spirit, then
your place in His plan can be revealed to you, and will be revealed to
you by me, by the Holy Spirit.

Now that&rsquo;s the way it works. Since that&rsquo;s the way it
works&mdash;that is the way it does work&mdash;and so you cannot fail in
it.

So you can approach this in a somewhat selfish way by saying, &ldquo;I
wish to join with the Holy Spirit. I wish to join with the Father so
that I will no longer be scared to death, so that I will no longer
experience suffering, so that I will no longer feel wild, utter
vulnerability. I wish not to hurt any more. Father help me hear You. And
I will continue until I do.&rdquo; You see?

There&rsquo;s a point at which the rubber hits the road. There&rsquo;s a
point at which the theory must be transformed into practice, where you
change because you&rsquo;re willing to put forth the effort that it
takes. And it&rsquo;s spelled out so simply for you in the holy instant.

<div markdown="1" class="well book">
The holy instant is THIS one and EVERY one. The one you WANT it to be it
IS. The one you would not have it be is lost to you.
</div>

Utterly simple. I don&rsquo;t care if you&rsquo;re eighty-six years old,
seventy-three years old, fourteen years old, time cannot be used as an
excuse for being insane, for simply not employing your Mind wholly. And
because employing your Mind wholly is the way [chuckles] regaining your
Sanity works. It is available to everyone no matter what their age or
condition, as long as it&rsquo;s wanted, and as long as one
doesn&rsquo;t justify ongoing suffering, because it&rsquo;s just too
much work.

I will tell you something: it&rsquo;s not work to be Sane. It&rsquo;s
work to do things the way you have been doing them. It seems to be work
to abandon the way you&rsquo;ve been doing them, because you have been
committed to them for so long, and it stands as part of your integrity
that you have been consistent. And that&rsquo;s a hard one to
abandon&mdash;lose your consistency, you lose your integrity. Well,
it&rsquo;s bullshit! Lose your consistency in illusion and what&rsquo;s
left is Reality in its divine wholeness.

Now, the Answer awaiting the world today lies in Union. It lies in
drawing a circle that brings them in. And you simply have to get it
through your head that going into the Silence and abandoning how
impossible it looks to you when you&rsquo;re trying to use your own
private limited resources. In abandoning that you open the door for the
inevitable Answer. Because I will tell you, sooner or later the illusion
is going to end, because it&rsquo;s an illusion. And so it might as well
be now when it seems so impossible. Now is when the Answer must be
leaned into through the holy instant, not as a means of getting rid of
those so-and-so&rsquo;s who are so bad&mdash;excluding yourself, of
course&mdash;and instead asking God to see the more of God that He is
Being in you and everyone else &hellip; the ones dropping the bombs, the
ones who are apparently the aggressors.

The Answer lies in finding out how to be the Presence of Love that
touches the hearts of the bastards! There needs to be a bumper sticker,
&ldquo;Touch the Hearts of the Bastards&rdquo;!

Find the way &hellip; find the way to draw the circle that takes them in
and transforms everything.

One last point: Do you just stand around and let everyone do their dirty
deeds? Do you not say, &ldquo;No&rdquo;? If you do not say,
&ldquo;No,&rdquo; then you are not standing with the Father and calling
the lie, the lie. But here&rsquo;s the thing: You have to find a way to
say &ldquo;No&rdquo; within the circle that you have drawn that brings
them in. You must find a way to say &ldquo;No&rdquo; that does not
amplify terrorism, that does not amplify hate, that doesn&rsquo;t
validate the emotional responses associated with feeling incompetent in
the face of dire circumstances, which of course, will always call for
the use of force capable of killing if necessary.

Don&rsquo;t worry, there will be those who will use force to put a stop
to malicious and destructive acts. But the more those steps can be taken
within the realm of level-headed peace and reason, the more quickly the
whole problem will be resolved without a great magnitude of force,
because the little bit of leaven does leaven the whole lump.

If someone is intent upon killing, restrain him, but don&rsquo;t kill
him if you don&rsquo;t have to. Don&rsquo;t unleash anger at him or her,
but restrain him for sure, restrain her for sure, knowing that that
prevents further harm, but isn&rsquo;t the total Answer, because now you
have to listen for what will touch the heart of the bastard or the
bitch, or the circumstance or the practice.

So you could say, it&rsquo;s a hard one we&rsquo;re talking about. But
it&rsquo;s only hard because you&rsquo;re being called upon to do
something sooner than you expected to have to. You&rsquo;re being asked
to let the blessing of A Course in Miracles find expression in the world
by actually letting it change you, by actually causing you to shut up.
In other words, become still, meditate, and then in the absence of
willfulness&mdash;called peace&mdash;asking, &ldquo;Father, reveal to me
Your Perspective. Holy Spirit heal my misperception,&rdquo; and then
persisting in listening until you get the Answer. And it might initially
take a while. I mean, it might take a few weeks. But let there be time
taken every day to turn your attention diligently and honestly toward
the revelation.

It will come. In some ways it will come in a form that you&rsquo;re
least expecting. But it will come, and it will come again, and it will
come again. And each time it will be easier and you will have begun the
shift from independence to Union. And by being the change yourself the
world will be affected.

I love you all, you bastards, you. I love you all, in other words, in
spite of your short-comings, in spite of your inconsistencies, in spite
of the fact that you love the truth but don&rsquo;t want to embrace it
as completely as I&rsquo;m asking for at the moment. I love you in spite
of your ignorances.

Love your brothers and sisters as I am loving my Brothers and Sisters,
You. I love you All.

Okay, does anyone have any comments or questions?

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I do have a question.
</div>

Certainly.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Thank you for that. I stand very corrected and I am grateful
for the help in shifting my perception. But I have a question that I
have a feeling has probably got an easy answer, but part of the
disturbingness of what&rsquo;s going on with those bastards that we all
are, is what happens to the victims that seem to be harmed or killed by
people? How do we look at that? And you know, go back into the holy
instant and withdraw from the judgment and the horror of it all? How can
we soften our hearts and the feeling that we have for the sadness for
those people that seem to be suffering so much?
</div>

I&rsquo;m very glad you asked the question, because it indicates
you have heart and you&rsquo;re not just interested in the theory and
some way to get distance, which unfortunately too many students of
religion and the Course do.

Your caring, your sadness indicates Union with your brothers and
sisters, and that is Love. And you must understand that that blesses,
even if it doesn&rsquo;t constitute a full transformation. You must
begin to see it as Love felt, Love being expressed from the depth of you
and not make the false assumption that it is anger or something negative
impelling you that would add to the problem.

Those who are injured, families of those who are injured or who have
experienced the loss of a loved-one, sorely need the caring that
you&rsquo;re experiencing. They do not need bitterness expressed by you
toward those who in their ignorance did the only thing they felt they
could do to heal their hurt. Every single one involved in these instants
needs healing.

Keep out of polarization, don&rsquo;t let that enter into the equation,
as it were. Love the perpetrators, the so-called perpetrators and the
so-called victims equally. You can see, intellectually at least, that in
not introducing polarization, your word, your caring goes forth
undiluted, undivided and therefore, not weakened in its presence and
healing power.

The key thing is what I just said. You must Love the Christ of the
perpetrators as much as you would honor and Love the Christ of the
victims.

I will tell you something else: although the acts of the perpetrators
and perpetrators to come need to be stopped, the acts that are taken to
stop them must, again, occur within the circle that&rsquo;s drawn that
brings them in. And that is the key to the transformational result that
everyone is really wanting.

But as long as an enemy remains the opposite of the Christ in your mind,
you have a polarization that holds back the Light of Love. The victims
need to be honored not because they&rsquo;re victims, but because they
are the holy Sons and Daughters of God in whom He&rsquo;s well pleased
and who most certainly need to be held separate and apart from any
lingering memory of trauma that would color their perspective as they
continue forward in their process of learning to come Home by abandoning
the state of independence.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Thank you.
</div>

You see, it isn&rsquo;t so much some special gift that needs to be
given to the victims that leaves the perpetrators unblessed also. I
invite everyone to abide with that. Be present in the holy instant with
what I&rsquo;m saying so that any continuing lack of resolve might be
wiped away and open them up to forgiveness given and not withheld from
anyone.

You see, we&rsquo;re talking about Waking up, we&rsquo;re not talking
about getting even. And I&rsquo;m not saying that to you, I&rsquo;m
saying that because everyone needs to hear it. Okay.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Raj, I appreciate that so much. Thank you.
</div>

You are welcome. Thank you for letting me be with all of you.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Oh, thank you.

Oh, thank you. This is really a leap forward here.
</div>

And I look forward to being with everyone next time.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Hey, Paul, can I say one last thing to you.
</div>

PAUL: Certainly.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
I just want to say thank you. It has been a really hard, hard
time to understand everything that is going on and to try to put it into
the perspective of what I know to be true based on what I&rsquo;ve
learned through you and Raj and the Course In Miracles.

It&rsquo;s really honestly changed my life and I&rsquo;m so grateful.
But when I know that it should apply in a certain way, and I can&rsquo;t
seem to make it do so, then these questions stick there, and even though
I still know what I know this doesn&rsquo;t sit right. But so tonight
what you said, what Raj said, there&rsquo;s not one question I can think
of to ask that wasn&rsquo;t answered in that. And thank you so much.
</div>

You&rsquo;re really welcome.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
And with that I guess I&rsquo;ll say good night to everyone.
</div>

Okay, good night.

<div markdown="1" class="well person">
Good night.
</div>

[^1]: T15.4 Practicing the Holy Instant
[^2]: Bible: Matthew 6:9-10
[^3]: Galatians 5:9
[^4]: John 14:6

